MATT: Welcome and good evening, everyone. Welcome
to this week's episode of Critical Role, where a

bunch of us voice actors, who are also huge geeks,
sit around and roll dice and have a good time in

the wondrous journey of Dungeons & Dragons. We'll
go ahead and get things started with some

character backstories, have a settle in here, get
the cameras ready, and then we'll start the action

as soon as we return. So we'll see you guys here
very soon.

[rock music]

[dramatic music]

ASHLEY: Pike grew up on the outskirts of town,
near the Bramblewood. Her ancestors were a family

of deep gnomes with quite an unfavorable
reputation. Thievery, destruction, and trickery

left them with the curse of the last name
Trickfoot. Sarenrae, the goddess of healing and

redemption, had other plans for Pike's
great-great-grandfather Wilhand, who left his

family at a young age after a dream: a dream that
changed the course of the Trickfoot family.

Wilhand devoted his life to Sarenrae and pledged
from then on that him and his family would live a

life of service and devotion.

As a child, Pike seemed to have an affinity to
heal. Whether it was animals, people, or even

flowers, she felt she had a purpose in making
things whole that had once been broken. She

studied and learned the ways to heal though divine
magic.

She lived a peaceful life, quiet and simple, until
one day, Wilhand was captured and almost killed by

a group of goliath barbarians. One of the goliaths
took a stand against the murder of the innocent

gnome and he himself was beaten, bloodied, and
left for dead, abandoned by his herd. Wilhand went

to Pike for help. She prayed and healed this
barbarian as best she could,

bringing him back to life.

When he awoke, she discovered his name was Grog
Strongjaw. After that, they were best of friends,

a rather unlikely pair. Little did she know that
in a few years' time, Grog would soon return the

favor and bring her back from the clutches of
death. (roar, crunch)

After being killed in battle, Pike felt angry. She
wanted to be stronger so that it would never

happen again. She spent four months at sea
training with the men and women aboard a ship

called the Broken Howl.

Gripping her holy symbol in one hand, and her
morningstar in the other, this time,

Pike is ready.

TRAVIS: Right, listen up! If you have ale, then
you have a friend in Grog Strongjaw. A goliath of

towering height and size, this barbarian has an
appetite for the two great loves in his life:

combat, women, and ale! (chuckle)

(record scratch) Wait.

Easily the brains of the group, Grog is often
consulted for his vast knowledge of shapes,

colors, and (chuckle) shiny things!

Also ale.

In his early years, armed with his two-handed
great axe, Grog often enjoyed proving his might

amongst the ranks of his family's wandering herd.
But after coming upon an unsuspecting elderly

gnome in the woods, he objected to the killing of
such an innocent life. A creature of impulse, Grog

felt only pity for this-- well, this terrified
little thing. And his

disobedience cost him dearly.

Beaten bloody and banished by the herd leader, his
uncle Kevdak, Grog was abandoned and left to die,

exiled from his herd. It was then that the
relative of the very gnome he fought to save,

saved him. It was the kindness of a gnome cleric
named Pike that healed Grog, bringing him back

from death's edge. And they have remained close
friends ever since.

Most nights, Grog can be found challenging entire
taverns to wrestling matches! Ha! Or accompanying

Scanlan to the nearest house where you pay for
lady favors.

Also ale!

MARISHA: A first impression of Keyleth would leave
you with little information on the half-elven

druid. You might even think that her social
awkwardness due to her sheltered upbringing is

kind of sweet. (chuckle)

Of course, it would be unwise to underestimate her
based on first impressions. (thunder) Under that

unintimidating petite frame is a vicious beast
waiting to be unleashed, whose natural powers have

made even the fiercest of champions pee their
pants, literally! (soft chuckle)

Born to the Air Tribe of the Ashari people,
Keyleth was raised with a deep love of nature and

the elemental magics. It is her people's inherent
duty to protect the delicate areas in Tal'Dorei

where the four elemental planes begin to bleed
with this realm.

Since she was a little girl, she had quite a knack
for air manipulation and beast shaping abilities.

Well, if you consider kittens and flying squirrels
to be little beasts. Which, I do. (clears throat)

Anyways, it wasn't long before the headmaster of
the tribe, her father, Korren, realized her true

prodigious abilities and she was inveterated to
succeed him as the next headmaster.

Just like that, her jovial childhood was stripped
and replaced with endless spell memorization,

teachings from ancient traditions, and exceedingly
high expectations. Every druid leader to be must

embark on a journey to seek out the sister tribes in
order to introduce and establish respect amongst

the fellow headmasters. They call this the
Aramente, or Noble Odyssey. When her father felt

she was ready, he set her on the path to truly
discovering herself, not knowing when, or if, she

will ever return.

As she hiked down the mountain towards Stillben,
she meditated on the task ahead. Part of the

Aramente is proving yourself a strong warrior, a
valiant protector, and a wise and compassionate

leader. With this knowledge, one thought plays on
repeat in her mind: Is she even worthy?

TALIESIN: Percy was the third of seven children,
born to a noble family who lived far to the north

in the ancient castle of Whitestone. With so many
siblings to share the burdens of lordship, Percy

turned his attentions to the sciences,
engineering, and naturalism.

One day, a mysterious couple named Lord and Lady
Briarwood came to court. During a feast held in

their honor, the Briarwoods violently took control
of the castle, killing or imprisoning everyone who

would stand in their way.

Percy awoke chained in the dungeon, only to be
freed by his younger sister. Together they fled,

chased by the Briarwoods' men. As they ran,
Percy's sister took several arrows to the chest

and fell. Percy kept running, eventually jumping
into a freezing river and floating unconscious to

freedom. He did not remember waking up on a
fishing boat. He barely remembered the next two

years, as he slowly made his way as far south as
possible.

Then one night, Percy had a dream. A roaring cloud
of smoke offered him vengeance against those who

destroyed his family. When he awoke, Percy began
to design his first gun. (gunshot)

SAM: Oh, you haven't heard of Scanlan Shorthalt?
Well, gird your loins, ladies, because he has his

eye on you.

A talented musician, master of disguise, and
dashingly handsome in his own mind, Scanlan sings

songs almost as much as he sings his own praises.

Born a poor gnome, Scanlan used his endless charm
and soaring tenor voice to croon for coin and

support his single mother. One day he was
discovered by a half-orc promoter, and joined Dr.

Dranzel's Spectacular Traveling Troupe, where he
learned the ways of the world, and honed his

skills as a bard extraordinaire.

A loner much of his life, Scanlan has never quite
come to terms with the violent death of his mother

at the hands of a goblin invasion. While his years
on the road provided many, shall we say,

educational experiences with the opposite sex,
deep down, Scanlan yearns for the one thing he's

never known: the true love of a fellow gnome.

Still, Scanlan considers himself a lover first,
performer second, and fighter distant third. On

the battlefield, he'll support his allies, but
rarely draws blood, unless it's to protect fellow

gnome, Pike.

Count on Scanlan for a hearty laugh, a rollicking
song, and a twinkle in his eye that melts hearts

and makes the females swoon.

ORION: Greetings and salutations. I am Tiberius
Stormwind. I hail from a town called Ty'rex,

located in the heart of Draconia.

From a politically respected family, at the age of
15, I succeeded in passing the Sorcerer's Rite,

showing prodigy-like control of my magic. The
judges and the Draconian high council were amazed

at how powerful my spells were for how long I had
been training. At 20 years old, I was the youngest

appointed member of the magic guild in Draconian
history. For the next few years, I almost went mad

from the malaise of being a guild member, as it's
rather boring.

However, one day I happened upon a chamber, unused
for quite some time. In the room were stacks of

books and maps of the surrounding cities and areas
around the known world. For months, I would

frequent the chamber, and learned of artifacts
from legend.

After a long period of research, I made a list of
artifacts that caught my eye. I brought these

findings to the high council and was told that all
of the information in the chamber I had stumbled

upon was either believed to be fiction, or
unsolvable mysteries, and hence were lost forever.

I found those answers to be unacceptable.

A year later, I devised a ruse and managed to
convince the city council to lend support in me

leaving Draconia on a mission of peace and
diplomacy for the surrounding kingdoms, going from

town to town and making friends and allies, in and
for the name of Draconia. Being a red dragonborn,

I had quite the task on my hands in that respect,
but it was exactly what I needed so I could

explore the world and find these artifacts, as I
felt the truth was out there.

Some may describe me as buffoonish, but I say
poppycock to all that. I am much sharper than most

give me credit for. I just don't pay attention to
things sometimes. I've also been known to be

rather cunning, loyal, happy-go-lucky, and well,
dangerous. I can't help but show my true scales

every now and then. But overall, I think I'm quite
friendly for a dragonborn!

LIAM: Never entirely welcome in the company of
elves or men, Vax'ildan learned at a young age to

skip past formality, preferring instead to invite
himself in your door.

Along with twin sister Vex'ahlia, Vax was born by
a chance encounter between elven royalty and human

peasantry. Raised by their mother in their early
years, the twins were eventually sent off to their

father in the elven capital of Syngorn. But their
cool reception among the elves there never warmed,

and their time in the capital didn't last. The
siblings stole away one autumn night and set out

on the open road.

After a few years of wandering, they eventually
decided to return to their mother, and journeyed

back to the lands of their youth. But instead of
finding their childhood home, they returned to a

pile of rubble. Their mother was gone, their home
burned to ash. Pressing the townspeople for

answers, they learned of the day the dragon came.
(roar) With their ties all severed, Vax'ildan and

his sister set out to find their fortune together
in Tal'Dorei.

An outsider since birth, Vax quickly learned to
solve life's challenges in his own particular way,

often by side-stepping them entirely. And when his
knack for circumventing adversity isn't enough,

(knife scraping) the way of blades the elves
schooled him in more than makes up the

difference.

LAURA: Like so many half-elves, Vex'ahlia has
spent most of her life suffering the cool

reception of a people who don't fully accept her.
Born of a human mother and an elven father who

only later in life took an interest in their
existence, Vex'ahlia and her twin brother

Vax'ildan quickly realized the only people they
could truly rely on in this world

were each other.

It was at the age of ten when the two were taken
from their mother and brought to live in Syngorn,

the isolated elven city for which their father was
an ambassador. He quietly took them in, but always

kept an icy distance, and after too many years of
disdainful looks, the pair decided to leave his

indifference behind, and set out on their own.

Vax took to the cities, stealing small trinkets
and learning the ways of the thief, while Vex kept

to the woods; she preferred the isolation.

Always the keen observer, she learned to hunt and
to track, to spy and to shoot. And through a

series of fateful events, earned herself a
companion in the form of a bear-- her own stolen

Trinket-- to fight alongside her and protect her
fiercely.

Also, he is adorable, and gives expert massages.

[dramatic music]

MATT: Hello, and welcome back! So before we start,
a couple of quick announcements and things we want

to get out to you guys. One, unfortunately Ashley
cannot be here tonight, so we're missing Pike,

sadly. I'll be controlling her as the terrible AI
for the evening. Apologies in advance, guys. She's

only your healer.

(all laugh)

MATT: Also, as a note, we're still doing the
subscriber giveaways tonight. Our next goal is

2700 subscribers. We'll be giving away another
tabletop promo kit that are exclusive only to this

now. You cannot find them anywhere else. So we'll
be giving one of those away to somebody in the

chat room, once we hit 2700 subscribers. Which is
awesome! Also, we have our charity we run every

week, 826LA. Marisha, if you want to explain that
a little bit.

MARISHA: Yes! 826LA is a non-profit tutoring
program for kids K through 12th grade. And they're

really big on creative writing and storytelling,
and they also have a storefront, the Time Travel

Mart, in--

LAURA AND TALIESIN: Echo Park

MARISHA: Echo Park! Thank-you. And Mar Vista.
There's also one in Mar Vista, and there might be

an 826 in your city, I know there's one in
Seattle, and Chicago, and New York. So look them

up, they're awesome, and yes. They do great work.
And you can also tutor for them! You should

volunteer.

MATT: Which is also great!

ORION: Yeah.

MARISHA: Volunteer to be a tutor for 826.

MATT: Tutor to teach them to write modules for
D&D.

ORION: Think you're smart, huh? Think you're
smart?

LAURA: Do you think you're smart?

MARISHA: Think you're smart? Can you teach a 5th
grader?

MATT: Exactly. And also, if you donate to 826LA at
the end of the show today we'll read off some of

the messages you guys wrote as part of donations,
at the end of the show, so we'll give you personal

thanks for that at the end of... of today. So
that's be cool. Also, I'm wearing a shirt. You

notice it's grey-ish colored, this is our second
run of the first-- And I say first, because

there's hopefully more to come soon-- Critical
Role shirt. You guys keep asking for it, we

finally set up a Teespring. It'll only be up for
the next two weeks, and we're trying to hit

certain goals, so that if we manage to hit a
thousand tees sold, we're going to go ahead and do

another full cast Q&A. If we can all find any that
we're available for.

LAURA: Oh, awesome!

MATT: But yeah, so these shirts are available.
They're on Teespring.com/Critical-Role. We've

already had a few trolls go in there and create
their own T-shirts, and say that they're official

when they're not, so don't buy those.

MARISHA: Not ours. It's those! That's what it
looks like.

MATT: So this grey with full cast setup there.

ORION: They didn't even ask us.

MARISHA: So the first ones we did in navy. These
are done in grey.

LIAM: Second edition.

MARISHA: And then we'll probably retire this
design after this.

MATT: After this. This'll be your one chance to
get this design, and we have more stuff coming

down the road hopefully. But yeah! So check it out
Teespring.com/Critical-Role. If you guys want one,

go grab one. Also, quick little things you want to
promote that we've been working on recently.

Marisha and Taliesin? You said you wanted to...

TALIESIN: Yeah! We we just did some voices for the
new Marvel: Age of Ultron pinball game.

MARISHA: Yes!

TALIESIN: I did the voice of Ultron, so you can
hear me be evil!

MARISHA: (laughs) Yes, and I voice Black Widow.
And doing a little... little ScarJo...

up in there.

ORION: Yeah. No! Doing a little Marisha Ray up in
there.

MATT: Speaking of Black Widow...

MARISHA: And speaking-- speaking of Black Widow!

LAURA: Oh, yeah! So now two Black Widows in the
house.

MARISHA: (makes high-five sound effect) Black
Widow!

LAURA: Yeah, cause we all do Avengers Assemble. On
Disney XD.

TRAVIS: Every Sunday morning.

LAURA: What what what!

MARISHA: Avengers assemble!

LAURA: Thor, Black Widow, Red Skull. You bastard.

TRAVIS: Don't say anything!

SAM: He also plays Black Widow.

MATT: It's a whole new weird arc.

MARISHA: Black Widows, woo!

LAURA: And then the episode of TableTop that I did
just dropped today, as well.

MATT: That's awesome.

ORION: Nice!

MATT: Go check that out. Watch Laura go and
destroy a bunch of folks on another game.

LAURA: Yeah. A very scary horror RPG.

MATT: Ooh, that sounds awesome.

ORION: Is there anything else?

MATT: I have something, but you're next.

ORION: And my comedy troupe, i8athumbtack on
YouTube, we just put out a video called

"Helping the Homeless!" You should check it out. 
There's this douchebag called fouseyTUBE

that we were parodying, and we think it's funny.

MATT: Awesome.

ORION: But yeah, that just came out a couple days
ago.

LIAM: And I should have done this a couple of
weeks ago, but Transformers: Robots in Disguise is

now on the telly, and I play a Decepticon named
Underbite, who eats everything. It's a really well

done show, and Decepticons are better than
Autobots, and check it out.

LAURA: You're villains on everything, are you?

LIAM: Hell yeah.

TRAVIS: Do you have a lisp in that show?

MATT: He gives good villain.

LIAM: Not on this show. What?

TRAVIS: What?

MATT: Yeah.There you go. Also I have the pleasure
today to announce that I am the voice of Tim

Drake, Robin, in Arkham Knight.

TRAVIS: Yeah!

MATT: So I'm excited about that.

MARISHA: Tim Drake!

LIAM: That game looks boring.

MATT: I know, pfft! Who's going to touch it?
Yeah... that was a huge honor, so I'm really

excited about that. So if anyone has anything
else? Those are our announcements for this

evening. We can hop on in. Also, those that the
t-shirts, I think it just got set up in the chat

room that if you scroll all the way to the bottom
there will be a button for you to find the

t-shirts, so even easier way of getting to them.
Check it out. Anyway! So, into the game. Let me go

ahead and get the music going because I think
that's a required aspect of this as far as I'm

concerned.

LIAM: I'm always nervous in the first five
minutes.

TALIESIN: You remember how to play?

LIAM: I got dice.

SAM: Here we go.

MATT: So. As a quick overview as to where we were,
the party essentially was given a quest from the

capital city of Emon to find the missing folk hero
Lady Kima of Vord, a halfling paladin, very well

known, who had gone missing while on a pilgrimage
vision quest over the past year. She had been

missing for a number of weeks, nearly months at
this point, and you were sent to the dwarven city

of Kraghammer to find and bring her back safely.

After going to the city, you discover that she had
delved into the mines, seeking some sort of

extremely dark evil that was seated somewhere deep
beneath Kraghammer proper. In searching for her,

you managed to find your way through the mines
into the entrance passage into the Underdark. The

Underdark which is a very scary place. You've
encountered a number of subterranean beasts and

creatures, some of which are unnaturally mutated
or altered by some sort of magic

you cannot place.

Upon going through these caverns, a few battles
with duergar, the ashen-skinned evil subterranean

dwarves-- further subterranean dwarves, I guess
you'd say, and encountered your first mind

flayers, illithids, which seem to have allied,
strangely, with the duergar. Normally enemies by

nature, they're working together under what you
discovered in sense is a common enemy referred to

as K'Varn. Nothing really is known of K'Varn,
other than it has a great power and has united

these two forces for some nefarious purpose.
Apparently these abominations, and these strange

mutations you've encountered, these experiments,
also seem to have been created by K'Varn, though

no one knows quite why or how.

As you traversed down, you managed to... befriend
a arcanist mind flayer that was cast out from the

colony, named Clarota, who has aided you under the
intent that you would help him free his people of

the slavery of K'Varn and release the mind flayers
to their own normal state of mind.

And you've made your way to the duergar fortress,
Emberhold, found and released Lady Kima, who

underwent many, many weeks of torturous
experiences to come through still firm of mind and

ready to kick some ass. Through a very painful
battle in the Emberhold, you managed to pull your

party out, only a few of them turned to stone, and
with a foot burned off.

(all laugh)

MATT: And Grog being dominated and Grog-napped by
the surviving queen, duergar Queen Ulara.

TRAVIS: What? Everybody needs a nap.

MARISHA: We're going to have to get one of those
child leashes for you.

LAURA: Maybe we can get a chip implanted in him so
we can track him all the time.

MARISHA: Oh yeah, like a dog chip?

MATT: (laughs) So get on enchanting that,
Tiberius.

TRAVIS: I like chips.

LAURA: Yeah. Or like one of those tiles you put on
your keys.

MARISHA: Yes. That's actually not a bad idea. Can
we do that?

TALIESIN: There's an app for that.

SAM: A Grog-jack?

TRAVIS: Percy, you can make that.

MATT: Grog-jack? Whenever he gets taken, it gives
a little beeper in your pocket.

SAM: Yeah.

MATT: So, the party then, in trying to locate
Grog's position, found their way delving past the

lava fall-based element of the obsidian rock
duergar Underdark. Deeper into discovering this...

cursed... pit of undeath, bone shards, and glass.
Upon traversing it they encountered one of these

abominations that you've seen traces of left
before, this weird, half... partial elven, partial

tentacle monstrosity, that slashed through your
party, nearly killed Trinket,

but was defeated by you.

You managed to make your way across this bone
field and discover what appears to be a camp,

across a number of pillars in the distance. Vax
went ahead and stealthed up, looked over and saw

that there was a camp of duergar, and apparently
the surviving Queen Ulara giving them orders. Next

to Grog, who is currently bolted by iron bands to
some sort of a cart that they've been dragging him

through this tunnel passage with. And that is where
we have left off. So.

TALIESIN: I think I've got a plan.

SAM: Oh. Because I did, too.

TALIESIN: You have a plan?

SAM: No, I want to hear yours. Let's do them both
without telling, and just see what happens.

TALIESIN: I'll Roshambo you for it.

ORION: I actually-- I actually like this idea,
Scanlan.

TALIESIN: Keyleth can meld through rock. So, if we
can get the attention of everyone who's guarding

Grog, she could slip through while we're drawing
them out, and get through and let him go in the

midst of the fight.

SAM: That works with my plan.

TALIESIN: That works with your plan?

SAM: My plan was to-- was to go in there and
distract them while you did something!

(all laugh)

LAURA: Perfect plan!

TALIESIN: I like that plan.

SAM: I hadn't completed the thought because the
something hadn't been worked out.

TALIESIN: You were 80% there.

LIAM: Actually, let me tell you all that Grog is
up here, you didn't know.

TALIESIN: I assumed you'd come back by now.

LIAM: No, I'm still up there.

SAM: That raises the stakes!

(all laugh)

LIAM: Last week I said, "Come up now." And that's
when he called it.

ORION: And I had already taken off. So I'm already
headed there.

MATT: All right.

TALIESIN: Well, he's at least said, "Come up
now."

MARISHA: So we're... we're there.

MATT: So Tiberius, roll a stealth check.

LAURA: Great... Great, Tiberius, go for it.

TALIESIN: Damn it.

LIAM: "Hold on, let me show you my collection of
tin cans tied to my tail."

ORION: Actually, you know what? No, I'm fine, I'll
just roll.

TRAVIS: Yeah, roll the shit out of that.

ORION: 16.

MATT: 16? Okay. So, as Tiberius coasts up along
the back portion of Vax's arrival point...

LIAM: (whispering) Where is everybody?

LAURA: (whispering) We're on our way.

ORION: (whispering) I don't know. I heard you--

MATT: You notice one of the duergar looks over his
shoulder in your direction.

SAM: And plan over.

MATT: And begins to make a few steps in that
direction.

MARISHA: Wait. Who? You?

SAM: Yeah, he went in anyway.

LAURA: Yeah, and he's not stealthed enough.

LIAM: All right, I grab Tiberius by the snout and
pull him back, around the edge of that rock. I'm

just doing it. Pulling my dagger out.

MATT: All right. So the duergar continues to move
forward towards the edge of the rock...

LIAM: Oh, come up here please...

LAURA: "Okay!" We stealth. Can I head that way?

LIAM: And I'm throwing a knife into the dwarf's
neck.

SAM: Oh, Jesus! That's not very stealthy at all!

LIAM: Well, it's coming over!

MATT: All right, so the rest of you guys go ahead
and roll stealth.

LIAM: He's not waiting!

SAM: We've been doing this for 30 seconds. We're
already in a fight! I was going to distract them!

LIAM: I'm not going to stand here and wait for the
duergar to walk around the corner.

ORION: I was going to distract them, too.

MATT: And... you got one of them.

TRAVIS: It's a classic movie moment.

SAM: I'm going in. I'm walking into the camp.

MARISHA: What? Wait, okay, wait. Are we abandoning
the plan?

TALIESIN: No, we're just going for it right now.

MARISHA: All right!

LIAM: Oh my god!

MATT: All right, so the rest of you...

LAURA: I rolled a nine, so it doesn't even
matter.

MATT: It doesn't matter at this point.

TALIESIN: I rolled a ten, yeah.

MATT: Okay, so the rest of you begin trudging in,
down this tunnel, towards the edge.

TALIESIN: Goddamn.

MATT: Clarota and Kima are... (laughs) holding up
the back rear end.

LIAM: You know, if you wait five minutes, I can at
least take one out.

MATT: As Scanlan approaches, the duergar
immediately turns around.

MARISHA: Hi, duergar!

LIAM: Right up behind him-- (surprise sound
effect) Cut his neck, cut the throat.

MARISHA: I turn into an earth elemental.

MATT: All right,simultaneously, as you approach,
the duergar looks behind, gives you a glance, and

you can see his eyes, normally pupil-less eyes of
the ashy-skinned duergar are now glowing with an

odd dull green color that you haven't seen in
duergar previously, and he starts rushing towards

you. He's going to make a simultaneous round
rushing up to you for an attack while you release

your two attacks against him and you release your
dagger.

MARISHA: Go, twinsies!

TRAVIS: Who hits Scanlan?

MATT: This calls for a music change.

SAM: (sighs) Well, the best laid plans....

LAURA: My first one was an ultimate fail.

MATT: Okay. Good to know. All right, the first
duergar swings at you with his war hammer. To you

Scanlan, that comes down with a 12.

SAM: 12 versus armor class?

MATT: Versus your armor class, yeah.

SAM: I'm okay!

MATT: You pull back and the giant war hammer
swings past you and you duck out of the way.

Thankfully, though the duergar are relatively
small, you're much smaller, and as a gnome you

slip right out of the path of the actual hammer
blow. Your first arrow misses,

second one you said hits?

LAURA: 25.

MATT: 25 definitively hits. Go ahead and roll
damage.

LAURA: Ugh, why? Why? Oh, I'm cursed today! Eight.

MATT: Eight damage.

LAURA: Eight damage.

MATT: All right, so, after he swings past Scanlan,
who ducks out of the way, one arrow (whizzing

sound effect) just cruises over his head and you
hear it scattering and clattering against the

rocks in the distance. He looks over in your
direction as the second one just grazes his

shoulder. You can see a little bit of blood begin
to spill, but it doesn't even turn his head

towards the wound, he's still just glaring at you
angrily while you throw your dagger from behind.

Him not even aware of your presence, currently.

LIAM: 20. Natural 20!

TALIESIN: First of the night.

LIAM: There is a magnet inside this die. I should
be-- Just full disclosure. Okay, so natural 20.

MATT: Yeah. We're buying you new dice next week.

LAURA: Yeah, yeah. Will you buy me new dice as
well? Thank you.

MATT: So! As you pull Tiberius back, clutching the
front of his snout, keeping him quiet, you pull a

dagger out, toss it in the air, catch it and fling
it at full speed, striking true. Go ahead and roll

damage. With sneak attack bonus. Also multiplied
because of the crit.

LIAM: Yes. He's gone, he's gone. Okay, ...
(mumbles numbers) 47.

MATT: All right. So. As he turns and the arrow
strikes off his shoulder and he glares at you,

Vex. He pulls back his hammer again looking down
at Scanlan, coming down for a blow to basically

bash his skull in, but he stops suddenly, as you
see this blade protrude from the front of his

skull. His glowing eyes fade back to a dull, pale
whitish color, and his body slumps onto the ground

as your dagger magically returns to your hand from
below. Duergar down.

LAURA: I nod to you. Good job.

SAM: I step forward and say-- is her name Ulara?

MATT: Ulara. Queen Ulara.

SAM: Queen Ulara. Show yourself! Step out and talk
to us. Everyone hold.

MATT: And the rest of you, are you all staying
where you are? Are you coming

forward with Scanlan?

MARISHA: Oh, you're talking? We're doing a talking
thing?

LAURA: Let's step up behind him. I want to step up
and make him look more imposing with me and

Trinket behind him.

MARISHA: I am-- I am going-- Hang on, wait, what
are you do-- what?

LAURA: I want to step up behind Scanlan with a
bear behind him, and make him look more imposing.

MARISHA: I'm going to... slink back into the
shadows and turn into an earth elemental, and sink

into the ground.

MATT: Okay.

MARISHA: And hopefully they don't see that
happen.

MATT: Keyleth... is no longer Keyleth.

LAURA: (laughs) Whoa, you're huge!

MATT: And then-- (swoosh sound effects) fades
underneath the earth somewhere. Just slips into

it, almost like sand through an hourglass, you
just vanish beneath the surface of the rock.

TRAVIS: Great way to leave a party.

MATT: Kima steps forward, making a point to step
angrily onto the corpse of the duergar. You hear

the crunching of bone and metal as she steps over
his corpse. Percy, you're approaching as well?

TALIESIN: I'm... staying a little bit back.

MATT: Okay, so about there?

TALIESIN: Yeah, about there.

MATT: All right. Clarota's going to move off to
the side... here, and Pike is going to come and

get the center point she feels the most applicable
to heal.

LIAM: DM?

MATT: Yes?

LIAM: Where on the map is the queen right now?

MATT: You don't see right now.

LIAM: Don't see her.

SAM: She's in the tent. She's in the tent, right?

MATT: Grog, which is right over here.

ORION: I see what's going on and I rub my ring and
I go invisible.

MATT: Okay.

ORION: Greater Invisibility.

MATT: All right, so. Tiberius also vanishes from
view. You glance over your shoulder, Vax, and

notice that Tiberius is just gone. Just (whoosh)
vanished. All right. So. As you shouted this out,

the secondary duergar now turns and... First off,
make a persuasion check. Well, no, in this case

intimidation, I think, is what this is going to
be.

SAM: Do I roll again?

MATT: I'll say okay, because it is a different
skill, so yeah.

ORION: Matt, I'd like to move to the other side.

MATT: You'll get about there with this round.

SAM: 22.

MATT: 22?

LIAM: Fucking love this game.

MATT: All right. As you shout this, the duergar
grabs this warpick from his side, looks at you

angrily, and begins to step forward, as a giant
grizzly bear and the rest of the party filters up

behind you in full flying V formation. He puts his
pick to his side and yells off his shoulder, "My

"Queen. We've got company!"

As he does, the flaps of the far end of the tent,
here, open up. There's a dwarf there, not a

duergar, but a dwarf that is standing there to the
side, that steps out of the way, and Queen Ulara

steps out, as well. You see her angrily look off
to the side. "(sighs angrily) Well, then. It

"appears that we have some business to discuss."

And she begins to step past the front of the fire
way. Stopping right next to the fire pit, keeping

a good 15-foot distance, with her arms crossed.
The dwarf comes and flanks her on this side, and

you now see-- while I cannot seem to find the
figure for the life of me right now to represent

it. We'll use this, for the time being. There is
an elf also flanking her. Normal looking elf,

dressed in what looks like a fine chainmail
attire. Longsword at the side. So there's an elf

and a dwarf, both flanking.

LIAM: And they're clearly with her.

MATT: They are at her side, like they're ready to
defend her.

LIAM: They could be charmed.

SAM: Queen Ulara, if I may have a word. Let us
spare each other lots of bloodshed and just have a

chat before we fight. Is that all right?

MATT: "Talk, small annoying creature, and perhaps
it'll delay the inevitable."

SAM: My friends and I have come--

LAURA: Hello!

SAM: Hi, yes... We've come from the above world.
The normal world, let's say, to your fine kingdom

down here below. And we were on a mission. We're a
bit of-- I don't want to brag, but we're a bit of

an elite task force, sent in by kingdoms and kings
that you probably haven't heard of way down below,

but anyway. I'll spare you.

MATT: Hold that thought just for a second. Percy,
go ahead and roll a perception check.

TRAVIS: Oh, shit.... When it's out of the blue
like that it's always bad.

TALIESIN: Ten.

MATT: Okay. Continue.

LIAM: Wait. DM. Vax is creeping along the back of
that tent and curving around.

MATT: All right.

LIAM: Thank you.

ORION: I'm going to do the earring and go to
Scanlan and be like, "Keep it simple, will you? I

"mean, really, calm down."

SAM: (laughs) Copy that.

TRAVIS: Yeah, how could you?

SAM: My lady, we have come on a mission. To save
someone that you were holding captive. We have

completed our mission, and in the melee, in that
hovel you called a palace back there, we lost one

of our own, and we would like him back. Now, I'll
make it very simple because my fellows are begging

me to keep things simple. It's a simple binary
choice. You can all die right now, or you can turn

over our friend and we will probably, probably
leave you in peace. I would promise, but I don't

make promises to dogs.

TRAVIS: (high-pitched) Ooh! Oh snap!

MARISHA: Oh shit! I move in behind where the
pillar is, but in the ground.

MATT: Behind where this pillar is, in the ground?

MARISHA: No, I'm-- yeah, I'm there-ish.

MATT: All right. So, at that response, and you're
noticing now as you're getting a better glance at

the queen, too, the normally white, pale duergar
eyes have a strange green glow-ish hue to them. As

do the two individuals to the right and left of
her. And she just looks you square in the face.

"You took my king from me. Came and slayed him in
his own throne room. You took something I love, I

"take something you love. He's mine now. And I'm
bringing him to his greater destiny."

At which point, a loud, horrendous streaking sound
pierces the ears of everyone in this vicinity. As

appearing out of a ripple of energy, a
once-invisible mind flayer goes cascading out a

mind blast in a cone that just tears through the
entire group here. Scanlan, Vex, Pike, as well.

Trinket, Percy, go ahead and roll an intelligence
saving throw.

TRAVIS: I'll die once I finally come back.

SAM: Saving throw?

MATT: Yes.

SAM: What is that?

MATT: Roll your saving throw for intelligence.

SAM: Okay.

LIAM: Small square near the top upper left hand.

TRAVIS: At least I don't have to roll for
intelligence.

SAM: 21.

MATT: All right. Percy.

LAURA: Do I roll for Trinket, too?

TALIESIN: 16.

MATT: Yes, you do. Okay. Vex.

LAURA: 14.

MATT: Okay. And?

LAURA: And Trinket is eight.

MATT: So, you double over, clutching your skull,
as the pain is too much to bear, and you find

yourself unable to actually draw commands to your
muscles for them to function.

You are currently stunned.

LAURA: Great.

MATT: Roll for Trinket.

LAURA: Oh, he rolled an eight.

MATT: Trinket falls to the ground with this
horrible (bear groan) sound, digging his nose into

the actual dirt to try and find a way to escape
this piercing mental agony,

this psychic damage...

LAURA: It's pretty shitty, you guys. It sucks.

MATT: Both of you guys take 22 points of psychic
damage, by the way.

LAURA: Oh, good. Trinket's about to die again.

MARISHA: Who's all stunned?

TALIESIN: Laura, twice.

ORION: Bear and Vex.

MATT: Pike also.

TALIESIN: And Pike.

LIAM: DM, I'm throwing a dagger at the queen.

MATT: Okay. Now we roll initiative, folks, because
stuff has begun.

ORION: (fumbling) Can I do something right before
that?

MATT: No, essentially this triggers the combat
now. This was an immediate occurrence. Now we're

going into initiative order.

ORION: Okay.

LIAM: Now, by my saying that, do I get into the
initiative order, or does my action come out, my

decision come out before?

MATT: I would say for the two that didn't act this
turn, you guys can have advantage on the

initiative roll because you guys have been holding
your actions. So Tiberius, you can also have

advantage on your initiative roll, since you guys
were holding off.

LIAM: 21.

MATT: 21?

MARISHA: Nice, that's better!

ORION: That's way better than a two.

LAURA: I don't roll anything because I'm stunned?

MATT: You are stunned currently. You still roll
initiative so we have the order that you go in.

ORION: 21.

TALIESIN: 22.

MATT: All right.

MARISHA: Oh are we doing this?

MATT: We are.

LIAM: It's on like Tron.

LAURA: I've got a 13.

MATT: Guys, hang on. So 20 to 15?

TALIESIN: 22.

SAM: 18.

MATT: 18, all right, wow. We got some good
initiative rolls, guys, good job!

MARISHA: 16 here.

MATT: Okay. 15 to ten?

LAURA: Oh, me. 13.

MATT: There we go.

LIAM: You play stunned well.

LAURA: I'm not a victim. I'm going to kick butt as
soon as I wake up.

MATT: Oh, yeah. Kima also fell stunned to that,
unfortunately. All right, that brings us to.... I

think that's everyone's initiative, right?

LIAM: 21 over here.

MATT: Yeah, yeah everyone's in. All right, cool.
So, top of the round. Percy, you're up first.

TALIESIN: We need earth elemental stats if you
know where they are, by the way.

MATT: Oh, did you not print them out? Monster
Manual.

TALIESIN: Monster Manual.

MATT: Here we go. (funny accent) See, this comes
in handy more often than you'd think.

TALIESIN: Yeah. But while we're looking that up,
I'm basically going to pull my gun, I'm going to

fire four times into the face of that awful, awful
screaming bastard.

MATT: Of the, the mind flayer over here?

TALIESIN: Yeah, the mind flayer.

MATT: Okay, so you whip around, he's there in your
face, go ahead and make-- You're using your action

surge to fire two additional times, you said?

TALIESIN: Yeah.

MATT: Okay, wow, four rounds. Go for an attack.

TALIESIN: First attack with Pepperbox is 13?

MATT: 13? Unfortunately misses. Form shifts
(whooshing sounds), and you can feel the psychic

energy of its oppressive mental force, causing
your hand to miss its aim with

each pull of the trigger.

TALIESIN: All right fire shot for 19.

MATT: 19 does hit.

TALIESIN: That's my fire shot... so that's...

TRAVIS: Put it on him, Percy, let's go.

TALIESIN: Oh my god, this sucks! Eight points of
damage. What is this about?

MATT: Okay. Third attack?

TALIESIN: Third attack.

MATT: Spin the barrel again on the Pepperbox
(gunshot).

TALIESIN: Natural 20.

TRAVIS: Get on it!

LAURA: Murder him!

TALIESIN: That's 11 points of damage.

MARISHA: Is it doubled?

MATT: All righty. That's doubled with the
critical?

TALIESIN: That's 2d10. I double the dice, right?

MATT: Yeah.

TALIESIN: Yeah.

MATT: Or roll and double the dice number, but
that's fine. Okay.

TALIESIN: So that's that. And now I'm going to
take a sharpshooter bonus, so... Oh, that sucks.

That's 11, that doesn't hit.

MATT: Unfortunately. So the first one hits,
the second one actually clips part of its chest

and you can see, as it tries to use its psychic
abilities to resist the bullet, it still pierces

its chest in the side. Missing everything vital,
still causing it to (makes painful hissing sound),

sucks in the air for a moment.

TALIESIN: That was a terrible roll. I'm going to
use some movement to dodge left to get out of the

way of that guy.

MATT: Okay. So going this way?

TALIESIN: Yeah, I'm going to go... Yeah, about
there.

MATT: Okay, cool. Probably should get out the
laser pointers.

TRAVIS: I'll bring him one.

SAM: Hey, is Grog stone?

LIAM: Grog's tied. Grog is held by iron bands.
He's down.

TRAVIS: Grog's been hitting the peace pipe.

SAM: He's unconscious.

MATT: You guys don't know; you haven't seen him
yet.

LIAM: I saw him, you described it to me last week.
He's in iron bands held on a cart.

LAURA: But he's awake, right?

MATT: Yeah, on a cart. You haven't checked.

MARISHA: Iron bands?

LIAM: Yeah, he's tied down.

MARISHA: He's on the whole cart though, right?

MATT: Tiberius. You're up next.

ORION: Great. I peek over the little thing, and I
go, "Ooh!" and I throw a fireball from my ring.

MATT: (laughs) Okay, where are you throwing it?

ORION: Oh, right in the juicy spot of those three.

MATT: Right here?

ORION: Yeah.

MATT: Okay. So. As they're all sitting there,
looking ready to pounce for this series of battle,

all of a sudden there's a slight streak of reddish
energy in the distance as you all are watching. It

looks almost like the fire pit behind them just
explodes in this giant fiery ball of red, angry

magical fury. So go ahead and roll your 8d6
damage.

ORION: (mumbling numbers) I'm missing d6s.

TALIESIN: There's two more.

ORION: Wonderful. (mumbles) That's... 31 damage.

MATT: 31 points of damage, okay. Queen Ulara you
notice, as the duergar are generally considered--

as this blasts in this area as well-- both her and
the duergar make their saving throw; they have

magic resistance innately against it.

TRAVIS: Against magic?

MATT: Yeah, they're hardy creatures, man. However!
The elf on this side ends up being thrown to the

side and its entire body gets thrown about 20-30
feet across from the force of the explosion,

landing on the ground lifeless, next to you.
(skidding noise) On the ground, a burnt cinder.

The dwarf takes the brunt of it as well. Appears
to still be alive, but looks very horribly burned

and is looking at its hands now like (pained
grunting sound). Barely standing.

ORION: And then I spend two sorcerer points to
(crackling sound effect) form an ice knife.

MATT: Before we get to that point, Grog, you also
take that damage.

TRAVIS: Oh. How many points?

LIAM: He's a freaking sponge. He'll be fine.

ORION: Why?

MATT: Because you said you threw it in the fire,
there? Grog's right there. On a cart.

ORION: I said the juicy spot of those three! I
knew Grog was there. Of course

I wouldn't throw it there.

TRAVIS: I can take it.

ORION: Okay, fine.

(all laugh)

MATT: I pointed here.

ORION: Yeah, but... I thought-- I don't know.

MATT: Be specific next time! But yeah, that's
okay. He can take it.

MARISHA: We're down all of our laser pointers.

ORION: And I throw that, right in the back of
Queeny's head.

MATT: Okay. All right, go for it. So as you
coalesce this arcane energy into this blue, cold,

freezing plume of... moisture in your hand, it
forms into this giant jagged blade of ice, and you

chuck it in a straight line. Go ahead and roll a
d20 plus your spell attack modifier.

MARISHA: Get it. Get some.

ORION: 19.

MATT: 19 does hit, even with her mage armor.

ORION: Sweet. And then that's 1d10. So that's a
ten. And then... it (exploding sound effect)

shatters, and then does-- where the fuck is it--
2d6 damage as well.

MATT: Okay, to her and everyone-- Go for it.

ORION: In a five-foot radius. So yeah...

MATT: Right.

ORION: And that guy's like right next to her,
right?

MATT: Yeah.

TRAVIS: (whispering) Hey, Matt. How much damage
did I take?

MATT: What was the damage on the fireball?

ORION: 31.

MATT: 31? 31 points of fire damage.

TRAVIS: Cool.

ORION: Cool, and that's four points of damage to
both of them.

LAURA: Are you dead?

MATT: To both of them? All right. Well, for one,
four damage is enough, as the shards of ice from

the back of Ulara's torso explode into this spray
of jagged ice chunks. It pierces continuously the

right side of this dwarf, who then falls to the
ground, grasping at his wounds and trying to stand

to his feet before falling over unconscious right
there.

ORION: And I have Greater Invisibility, so I'm
still invisible and I just peek back behind the

rock.

MATT: (singing) Mysterious fireball, ice dagger
source. Okay. You come to consciousness, in

extreme pain as your entire body is immersed
briefly in flame.

TRAVIS: (painful roaring)

MATT: We'll get to that in a second. Vex. Vax,
sorry.

LIAM: Okay, I'm going to use my feat, Cunning
Action, for one extra action per turn of combat,

use for either dash, disengage, or hide. So I'm
going to double distance and go one... two...

three, four, five-- I still can't see her-- six,
maybe... seven, eight, nine, ten. Stop right here

by Clarota. (over enunciating) Clarota-- Clarota!
And dagger, dagger at this jerkface over here.

MATT: Right here?

LIAM: Yep.

MATT: All right.

LIAM: That was stealthed, by the way.

MATT: Right, roll a stealth check.

LIAM: All right. Okay, and I'm going to use Luck.
Okay, so stealth is 23?

MATT: Okay.

LIAM: And he hasn't gone yet, so for the
assassinate feat for rogues, if he hasn't gone

yet, this is a critical hit.

MATT: In theory, combat already began when he
attacked the rest of your party.

LIAM: Okay.

MATT: Combat's begun. Sorry.

LIAM: The feat says if you have the jump, if you
go before the person's gone, but we can talk about

that later...

MATT: Correct, but they've already attacked half
your party with the mind blast, so in theory the

battle's already begun.

LIAM: All right. Okay, so keen dagger flying
through the air...

MATT: All right.

LIAM: Oh, I didn't hit to-- Okay, so that hits. 16
plus-- 27.

MATT: That definitively hits, yes.

LIAM: Okay, so three... plus (mumbles)

LAURA: Kill him.

LIAM: (muttering numbers) 36 total.

MATT: 36 points of damage. All right. So, the mind
flayer, which is... After it finishes a mind

blast, you can see it beginning to eye what its
next target would be. As Percy goes running off to

the side, it looks over at its three
freshly-stunned prey and begins to lumber towards

what looks to be either Pike or Vex. But before it
gets a chance to advance though, (whistling sound)

out of nowhere your dagger (impact sound) pierces
it in its shoulder. It looks at it and it grasps

for it. As its hand tries to pull the dagger out,
the dagger disappears in a plume of black shadow

energy back into your hand as you throw the other
dagger.

LIAM: Oh, sorry, asswipe! Okay, that is a 19.

MATT: 19 does also hit.

LIAM: And that is eight damage.

MATT: All right. The other dagger, the creature
actually puts up a little bit of a psychic field

for a second and it stops its momentum. It does
still manage to strike it, but with nowhere near

the damage you were hoping it would. Cool, that
ends your turn. That brings us to Scanlan.

SAM: Okay, so all that's remaining on the
battlefield is the queen and the mind flayer?

MATT: The mind flayer, the queen, and this duergar
here that has not acted yet.

SAM: All right. (sighs) I'm going to just bum rush
the queen.

TRAVIS: Yes! I mean...

SAM: And just dive at her. Just dive full,
head-on, straight for her and bear hug her with

Banishment.

ORION: Oh yeah, baby!

MATT: (laughing) Okay!

ORION: You know you can cast that from a
distance?

SAM: No, you have to-- it's touch.

ORION: Is it? Oh!

MATT: Yeah, it's a touch spell.

SAM: It's touch.

MATT: All right. So. What's your spell DC? I
assume you're using your hand cone?

SAM: I do most things through that.

MATT: As you charge forward, you pull out your
enchanted hand cone and shout the incantation

towards her with an angry glare.

SAM: Ooh, get lost, motherfucker!

(all laugh)

MATT: It had a DC of 19 for that?

SAM: Yeah.

MATT: Okay, even with her spell resistance, she
does not resist it.

SAM: It's not you it's me.

(all laugh)

MATT: Is it an intelligence or wisdom save?

SAM: Oh. I don't know things. Target, plane of
existence, banishment... I don't know. Where does

it say?

MATT: It should say what saving throw it is.

SAM: Find it.

(all laugh)

MATT: I will do this for you. On a charisma saving
throw or be banished. So, if it was on anything

but a charisma saving throw, she would have
shrugged it. Charisma, she does not have in

spades. As you reach out, she pulls back and you
see her beginning to form this crackling bolt of

energy you've seen once before in the throne room
that shot out and hit multiple members of your

party once for a severe amount of damage. This
would have been a very dangerous round if you

hadn't connected with her right in front of her
clavicle. She looks at you with this look of

confusion and completely caught-off-guard
frustration before her entire form (sucking sound)

blinks out of existence and is no longer visible
on the board.

LIAM: Bard ass!

SAM: Yes!

TRAVIS: Get the hell out of there (laughs)

SAM: Do I get my bonus?

MATT: Yeah!

SAM: I'm going to give inspiration to Grog because
he needs it.

MATT: All right. So Grog, as the flames die down,
you look over and watch Scanlan rush up and

completely, as far as you know, disintegrate the
duergar queen who took you and has been torturing

you these past few days--

TRAVIS: Wow.

(all laugh)

MATT: With that, he looks over to you and gives
you a little wink and a smile. Go ahead and take

an inspiration dice, which for him is now a d10.

LAURA: An upgrade!

TRAVIS: Heck yeah.

MATT: So you can add that inspiration die to any
ability checks, any skill checks, saving throws.

SAM: For instance, busting through iron bars.

TRAVIS: Thank you, thank you.

MATT: All right, well, it would be Ulara's turn.
She's going to go ahead and attempt to make her

saving throw. Does not make it. Still somewhere in
some other plane that you're unaware of.

SAM: She's in a better place.

MATT: Keyleth, it's your turn.

MARISHA: All right, I'm going to phase through the
ground because I can. And pop up right there next

to Grog.

MATT: All right. (crashing sound) Grog, you, all
of sudden, as you look over from Scanlan with this

smiling face, this giant mountain of rock and
earth just lumbers up out of the ground.

TRAVIS: (gasps) Oh shit!

MARISHA: And in rock speak, I say, "Grog it's
okay. It's Keyleth"

MATT: You hear (makes deep gargled sounds)

TRAVIS: (screams in terror)

MATT: (laughs)

MARISHA: I still don't really grasp that you
can't--

MATT: It's your first time doing elemental form;
you're still trying to figure it out.

MARISHA: Seeing that he's still tied up, I'm going
to pick up the whole crate and put him over my--

no I'm going to football carry him like this.

MATT: Okay. (laughs)

SAM: Is he on something?

MATT: He's strapped to a giant cart.

SAM: She's carrying the whole thing?

MATT: Yeah.

SAM: Awesome.

MATT: Because earth elemental.

SAM: Awesome.

MATT: So you're there, now you still have about--
what's the speed of?

MARISHA: 30.

MATT: 30. So you've got about, say, ten more
squares, or I'm sorry ten more feet you can go.

MARISHA: I'm going to start football rushing that
way.

MATT: This way? All right, one, two, all right
there we go.

MARISHA: Get the fuck out!

MATT: You're now being carried by this giant
lumbering earth elemental that is just bringing

you under its arm. Great! Vex? Do you make your
saving throw? Intelligence.

LAURA: Plus intelligence?

MATT: Intelligence saving throw, that should be at
the top.

LAURA: 23!

MATT: 23. Using your mind, you shrug off the
remainder of the ability. That does end your turn,

but you're no longer stunned, which is nice.

LAURA: That's great, that's the end of my turn?

MATT: That's the end of your turn.

LAURA: Do I roll it for Trinket too?

MATT: Yes, Trinket as well, thank you.

LAURA: Little Trinket gets the little bitty dice.
Oh, I don't think he got it. No, he still rolled

an eight.

MATT: Yeah, so Trinket's still on the ground,
slowly digging his nose into the dirt, trying to

find a way to his--

LAURA: Oh! Does that mean he takes more damage?

MATT: No more damage, but currently is unable to
function.

LIAM: He's dreaming of honey.

LAURA: Okay. He's dreaming of pain.

MATT: Yeah, very bad news. Okay. That brings us to
Pike, who's also going to try and make her saving

throw. Fails it, unfortunately. Pike dropped her
shield, dropped her mace, and is clutching the

side of her head, screaming silently as the pain
is wracking her brain from the inside.

That brings us to this duergar, who's going to
rush over to the one who just banished his queen

and attempt to-- his physical form begins to swell
with strength and frustration. The duergar swings

at you with his war pick. That is...

SAM: "(singing) Oh, don't hit me!" I cast a little
count, cutting-- what is it?

MATT: Cutting Words?

SAM: Cutting Words.

MATT: Okay. So it's a 16. Go ahead and roll your
d10 number. It's a d10 now.

SAM: That's d10?

MATT: It's a d10 now. You leveled up, yeah!

SAM: I don't even-- I've never rolled a d10
before! (laughs)

MATT: Now you have!

SAM: This is a d10?

MATT: Yep, so it's a 16.

SAM: It was a four.

MATT: It was a four, so it takes that down from a
16 to a 12, which does miss.

SAM: He misses!

(all laugh)

MATT: So as he rushes towards you--

SAM: (singing) No, don't hit me!

MATT: He stops for a second, confused. He puts the
war pick down for a second like, "Wait-- argh!

"(groans) You gnome!" Doesn't know why he listened
to you and is equally frustrated with himself now

as he is you. (laughs)

TRAVIS: So good.

MATT: All right. That ends the duergar's turn.
That brings us to--

LIAM: Here comes the illithid.

MATT: Not yet. This is going to be, Kima is going
to try and make her saving throw. Kima does make

it! Does shrug off the effect. Turns around
angrily, holding the greatsword that you gave her,

staring off at the mind flayer right there.

Clarota, however, is going to go ahead and turn
this way. Coalesce a giant ball of electrical

energy into his hand, and release an arcing blast
of lightning energy towards this mind flayer, who

does make its saving throw. However, it's still a
nice 8d6 lightning damage.

SAM: Do they know each other? Are they friends?

TALIESIN: Not anymore.

TRAVIS: Soulmates.

LAURA: I think that guy dated Clarota's
ex-girlfriend.

MATT: So, 20 points of lightning damage. As the
blue energy arcs off, and you see it grounds

itself on the incline of this tunnel you
guys, have, heading down, the mind flayer visibly

is burned, charred, wounded. It looks really
really rough. That ends Clarota's turn,

Kima's turn.

Back to the top of the round. The mind flayer
looks at its certain circumstance. Puts its hands

together like this, it seems to concentrate...

ORION: I see it, I cast Counterspell! (fwoosh)

MATT: Okay. All right, it's a reflex. Counterspell
in this edition is so good.

LAURA: That's great.

MATT: All right so... this would be Counterspell.

LIAM: Come on Tibs. Tibber-hoods.

MATT: All right, Counterspell, so make an ability
check, so add a d20 plus five to it.

SAM: That's nothing, that's no numbers.

MARISHA: Oh, there we go.

SAM: That's a good number.

ORION: What is that? 22.

MATT: 22? That'll do it. So as this entity you've
seen before, they tend to like create this small

localized portal into some other plane, and then
like step through and vanish. You see it begins to

coalesce the same arcane energy, and for a moment
you see a spark of some sort of door beginning to

open. As Tiberius steps from behind the rock,
releases this torrent of sparkling arcane energy

that closes the gate entirely and the mind flayer
for a second looks confused before it, across the

way to wherever it came from and sees nothing.

LIAM: Oh, so sorry.

TRAVIS: Are you still invisible?

TALIESIN: So sad, so sad.

MATT: And is going to turn tail and run.

LAURA: (gasp) Just running?

TRAVIS: With his feet?

LAURA: Can I shoot him?

SAM: He ran?

MATT: Well, yeah essentially levitating away.

TRAVIS: Does he have a goofy run?

MATT: It's more, its a gliding. it's a (whoosh)
About five or six inches off the ground.

MARISHA: Shoot her!

MATT: Percy, you're up.

LAURA: Shoot him, Percy!

TALIESIN: Okay, I'm going to take a step towards--
who's buggering Scanlan over there?

MATT: A duergar.

TALIESIN: It's a duergar? I'm just going to take a
shot at him really quick.

SAM: Don't hit me!

MATT: Okay.

TALIESIN: Not going to hit you.

MATT: Hard to see him right now; there's a big
tent in the way, if you want to take a step

forward, continue moving.

TALIESIN: I'll take a step forward, I'm going to
continue moving, this is going

to be a running shot.

MATT: Okay. So, as you turn, pull your gun off to
the side, (explosion) offhand fire--

TALIESIN: 18?

MATT: 18 does hit.

SAM: I don't like guns.

TALIESIN: That's-- don't go anywhere. That's nine
damage.

MATT: Nine damage, all right.

TALIESIN: And I'm going to shoot again.

MATT: All right.

TALIESIN: 18.

MATT: 18. That also hits.

LIAM: Bad News.

TALIESIN: Eight damage. Bad News has not come out
yet! This is just my little Pepperbox.

MATT: All right, so, as you turn the corner, you
fire once, take another step forward, go (click)

click over the next barrel, fire a second time.
The duergar which was attacking you-- you see part

of it's still burnt from the fireball which was
tossed the first round-- he's frustrated and angry

that you caused him to somehow lower his guard
when he attacked you last.

SAM: Yeah!

(all laugh)

MATT: You see him gearing up for another
two-handed strike down at this tiny gnome

character in front of him. The first blow hits the
war pick, knocking it out of his hands. He looks

over, confused, at you as the second blast hits
him right in the side of the face, completely

destroying this side of his head entirely. This
wet gurgle as the duergar slumps to the ground,

almost on top of you, but you step out of the way
as his body (boof) hits the ground right there.

LAURA: Nice. Nice, Percy!

TALIESIN: Bam.

LIAM: Where does he get such wonderful toys?!

TALIESIN: I make them!

MATT: That's Percy's turn. Tiberius?

SAM: You want to chase them?

ORION: I'm going to slink my way all the way
behind the other rock.

MATT: Over here?

ORION: Towards everybody, closer. Yeah, back,
there you go.

MATT: Okay.

ORION: I'm going to... Yeah, screw it, I'll do
another Fireball at the illithid going away.

Where do you think you're going? (fwoosh)

MATT: So, as you fire this beam over here, it
detonates in the distance, safely far enough away

from the party. Go ahead and roll damage for that
fireball. As the mind flayer that is drifting away

glances over its shoulder, you see its greenish
glowing eyes go wide for a second, cartoon-style,

"oh, shit!"

TRAVIS: Did you go, "Fireball!" as you do it?
Hadouken!

MATT: And, with its advantage against the spell--
it's a dexterity save, correct?

ORION: Yeah, so that's--

MATT: Doesn't make it.

ORION: 19.

MATT: 19, all right, 19 damage?

ORION: Yep.

MATT: Okay, as the mind flayer's drifting away,
you guys see this arc of red, beaming energy

(whoosh) off in the distance. (explosion) You see
rocks cascade off the top of the wall, hitting the

ground with a force as the entire tunnel shakes
and rocks. As the smoke and the flames dissipate,

all you see is this pile of blackened creature on
the ground from where the mind flayer once stood.

TRAVIS: Oh, peace out! Mind gobbler.

LAURA: Is that everybody's?

SAM: Fellows! Gather around. She might come back
at any moment and we should be here to surround

her when she comes back.

LAURA: Okay, yeah.

SAM: And someone get Grog out of that thing!

ORION: Oh, crap, I forgot about that one.

LAURA: Yeah, how do we get Grog out?

MATT: Grog.

TRAVIS: What?

MATT: While they're all doing this, what do you
want to do?

TRAVIS: Well, am I still chained up to the cart?

MATT: Yeah, these iron bands are across your
entire body.

LAURA: Being carried by an earth elemental.

TRAVIS: Excuse me, giant rock thing. Could you
perhaps get me out of this shit?

LIAM: I start hiking back towards Grog.

LAURA: Pike and Trinket, are they still stunned,
or are they... better?

MATT: They've shrugged it off by now.

LAURA: Okay. Then I run over and try to see what I
can do.

MATT: Ulara still can't make her saving throw for
the life of her, even with resistance.

LAURA: Can I go try to mess with the things on--

MATT: Oh, yeah. As you guys approach, and begin
making your way up to the front here, grab these

duergar.

ORION: And I'll move on the other side of that
rock so I can see better and have line of sight.

MATT: Over here?

ORION: No, on that side, yeah.

MATT: Okay. All right, so. As the rest of you all
slowly trudge up and gather around this vicinity.

LAURA: Grog! Are you hurt?

TRAVIS: I can't tell yet.

TALIESIN: I'm keeping my distance.

MATT: There?

TALIESIN: Yeah.

MATT: All right, so.

TRAVIS: I'm still in this wonderful therapeutic
chair.

MATT: So you go ahead and you try and pull the
bars off? Is that what you're doing? What are you

doing?

TRAVIS: Are they bars?

MATT: They're iron bands that surround you.

MARISHA: Don't want to hurt him.

TRAVIS: But it's a wooden cart?

Is it a wooden cart?

LAURA: Maybe bust the wood on the bottom.

TRAVIS: Or just smash the cart.

SAM: Or he can pick a lock.

LIAM: It's what I do.

MARISHA: Oh, is there a lock on the bars? Yeah.

MATT: Yeah, there's an intricate lock mechanism.

MARISHA: Try that first before I suplex Grog.

MATT: All right, so, so the earth elemental
lumbers forth and presents the cart on the ground

in front of you (impact sound). One of the wheels
(breaking noise).

TRAVIS: Thank you.

MATT: Cracks a little bit in the process.

LIAM: "Give me a little space. Let me look at
this." Can I detect traps on his bands?

SAM: Checking for traps?! She could come back at
any second, hurry up!

LAURA: I keep my arrow notched.

LIAM: That's a 17.

LAURA: In case she does come back.

MATT: 17?

LIAM: Yeah.

MATT: Okay. They appear to be just general locks.

LIAM: And are there locks contraptions on them?

MATT: There is a lock on them, yes. So go ahead
and make your--

LIAM: 19.

MATT: 19. (tink) The band that's part way across
the waist opens freely on

the hinge on the one side.

TRAVIS: Was there just one?

MATT: Yeah, that was the one.

TRAVIS: (groans in relief) Oh my god!

MATT: So go ahead and make an athletics check. I
mean, there's multiple bands around you. Across

your shoulders, your torso, your legs, your
ankles.

LIAM: I'm going to move on to the next one.

TRAVIS: 25.

LIAM: And a 25 on my lock pick.

MATT: Okay, you get a second band. You rolled a
25? And Marisha, do you want to go ahead and make

an athletics check as well? Or that would be a
strength check for you.

MARISHA: For what?

MATT: For your form, your elemental form, to try
and pull the bands off of Grog.

MARISHA: Okay.

MATT: Unless you want to do something else.

TALIESIN: I'm going to recommend to Pike that she
do a bit of healing.

LAURA: Oh, Pike! Can you heal Trinket. He's really
almost dead.

SAM: Is Pike okay?

MATT: Pike comes over and spends a 3rd-level
healing spell.

MARISHA: I failed.

LAURA: You failed what?

TALIESIN: Life. Oh wow! Yeah, you did.

MARISHA: Strength check.

MATT: Okay, Trinket heals 21.

LAURA: Oh, good.

LIAM: Vax is moving to the next band. That's a
24.

TRAVIS: I got a 25, does that not help?

MATT: Yeah, between the two of you, over the next
few seconds or so, you pick the next one and with

that remaining push, you force the rest of the
bands off. Grog, you make

your way up to your feet.

TRAVIS: (groans in relief)

MATT: There we go! At that point in time, there's
a slight ripple in the space right before this

fire pit, and in that place Ulara, Queen Ulara,
reappears again.

SAM: Hold her!

LAURA: I've been waiting for it.

MARISHA: Can I grab her?

ORION: Wait, can I do something? Can we react to
this?

MATT: Yeah.

ORION: I see it and I cast Hold Person.

MATT: Okay. All right. As you finish the spell,
you can see this glow of yellowish holding energy,

almost like these mystical shackles, begin to
tighten around her and then fade, unaffected.

LAURA: I release an arrow!

SAM: I also cast Hold Person.

MATT: Okay, so you go ahead and loose your arrow.
So go ahead and roll for your attack. All right.

LAURA: 29.

MATT: 29? Okay, that does hit. You can see now,
the second set of shackles spins around her, she

brings her hand up like this and they just scatter
around her, resisting a second Hold Person. Now

all her saving throws are coming through.

MARISHA: Can I just grab her as an earth
elemental. Just like (mumbles with a deep voice).

MATT: If you want to.

MARISHA: Yeah.

MATT: So, damage on the attack?

LAURA: I Hunter's Mark her, as well.

MATT: Oh there you go. See that, chatroom?

LAURA: What is that? 13?

LIAM: 12.

LAURA: 12! Plus... That's 16 total.

MATT: 16 damage, all right.

TALIESIN: I'm going to take a headshot with Bad
News.

LIAM: Wait!

TALIESIN: Oh, are you doing something?

LAURA: We need to talk to her.

TALIESIN: Okay.

MARISHA: I bear hug her.

MATT: Okay, so go ahead and make an athletics
check.

MARISHA: Athletics, I don't have that.

MATT: I know, it's just a strength check, then.
Roll a d20 and add your strength modifier.

MARISHA: Ooh, that's better! 23.

MATT: 23. You bound up behind her and as she looks
over her shoulder, the arrow piercing her

shoulder. She's looking pretty rough, you can see
the blood beginning to pool underneath her robe

there. Her eyes go wide.

LAURA: It would be in your best interest to not
struggle.

MATT: At which point, the giant arms go (impact
noise) behind her and the earth elemental lifts

her off her feet. (groans in pain) You can see her
now, her feet dangling angrily in the air. A

couple of seconds pass before she, "(pants) All
right. So, let's make a deal, shall we?"

LAURA: (laughs) You're in no place to negotiate.

SAM: We have everything that we have come here
for. What can you possibly offer us that we don't

already have?

MATT: "Valid point. What purpose do I serve? You
should let me go."

SAM: Let you go?! I tried to talk to you and you
almost tried to get us killed!

LIAM: Vox Machina, our purposes here are done, but
Lady Kima, she has further to go, and I am

curious, your Highness, if you know anything about
this K'Varn chap or gal or thing? We have heard

his or her name. They seem to be famous in these
parts. I was wondering if

you know anything about K'Varn.

MATT: Are you rolling Persuasion for this?

LIAM: Yes, I am. So well. That's a two.

LAURA: So bad.

MATT: She goes, "I know many things." And she
leans forward a little bit and then spits right in

your face.

LAURA: Oh! Wonderful. Clarota, do you want to suck
her mind?

MARISHA: I tighten my grip on her a bit.

LIAM: Vex'ahlia, would you come up and talk to
this--

LAURA: I'm already here.

MATT: Clarota, at which steps forward and brings
his hand up.

MARISHA: Oh, that's true. We don't need her, we
just need her brain.

MATT: As Clarota steps forward, putting his hand
out, this voice echoes through all of your minds

communally. "Now... tell us what you know." And you
see his eyes flicker with a strange blue energy.

LIAM: Yeah, Professor X.

TALIESIN: Man's got to eat.

MATT: And you see Ulara's eyes glaze over and
fill with the same blue arcane energy that Clarota

was briefly having drift out of his eyes. Ulara
stops struggling and the mouth goes into this

weird grin for a second and just calmly says,
"Liberation. Liberation is what it brings us.

"Liberation from physical limitation. Liberation
from the pain of the light." And she looks up as

she says that. "We all shall rise. K'Varn, the
Guiding Darkness. The sun shall hold no sway and

"we shall walk the surface once again."

ORION: What is all this poppycock?!

LAURA: What is K'Varn?

MATT: "K'Varn came to us, showed us how through
unification we could be better than we ever were."

LAURA: I didn't ask what he did, I asked what he
is.

MATT: "K'Varn--" At which point, there's a shudder
in her body and her eyes go from this strange blue

color to this strange swimming black that covers
the entirety of each eye. At which point, she

shakes for a second. Her shoulders shift and you
clutch her in your arms. As you do, you see the

blackness now has that same green glow that the
rest of them had, but it's framing the pools of

shadow that her eyes have become.

Her jaw falls slack for a second and this voice
comes through. "Ah, there! (chuckles) There we

"are. I can see you all so clearly."

ORION: Not me!

MATT: "You'd be surprised, dragonborn."

(all gasp)

ORION: You're pretty good.

(all laugh)

MATT: "Word has reached my ears, but to see you,
to look upon you, is everything. Come. You are

"close, yes? Come to me, as my guests. I invite
you. The temple doors are open. I'd like to see

"you in person."

ORION: (stammers) Can you be more specific? Like,
do we go left, or right, or... specific.

MATT: "You're already on the right path. Come to
me. You are my treasured guests." At which point,

the blackness in the eyes begins to intensify and
begin to spill like black tears from the face. Her

body shudders before the back convulses, and then
falls limp, a little bit of

smoke rising from the mouth.

LAURA: I check her pulse.

MATT: She has definitely given up the ghost.

SAM: Try to heal her?

LAURA: Does she have anything awesome on that we
can take?

TALIESIN: I wasn't going to say it.

SAM: You're looting her already?!

TALIESIN: I was waiting for someone else to say
it.

LIAM: What a mercenary.

LAURA: Is she dead? Can we take her outfit?
(laughs)

MATT: All right, so as you guys glance around you
find-- other than the usual assortment of objects

you find are the armor the duergar, the Emberhold,
make.

LIAM: Vax'ildan is going to go pick at the charred
remains of the illithid.

SAM: I'm going into the tent to look.

ORION: I want to check out the queen.

MATT: Okay. You go and check out the charred
remains. They are charred. They are remains. There

is what looks to be about 86 gold on the body, but
most anything of use has been charred or

destroyed. There is the remnants of a breastplate
that is burned over that most of the mind flayers

use as a basic form of protection.

As you inspect her body, as the earth elemental
drops her (boof) with a thud to the ground--

ORION: I rolled an 18 for arcana, and you know I
wanted to check for--

MATT: Okay. You do notice there's a silver circlet
across her forehead that does give off a magical

aura. She carries on her one viscous, reddish
potion that is familiar to you in the healing

accoutrement of various potions you've had in the
past. It is a potion of greater healing.

LAURA: Yeah, and we haven't used the yellow potion
yet.

TRAVIS: And nobody ever drank that?

ORION AND LAURA: No.

MATT: There is another potion that has almost a
blue, frosty color to it as you take the vial from

where it sits in the rest. The actual glass that
contains the liquid has a layer of frost crystals

around it.

TALIESIN: I'm going to remember that you're the
one who suggests drinking random, yellow liquids

and I'm going to bring you a vial of yellow
liquid. I'm just saying.

MATT: Make an investigation check.

LIAM: Me? Yeah, sorry.

LAURA: Can I also check-- We already checked the
queen? You already checked the queen?

MATT: He's almost done with checking the queen.

LAURA: Can we check the elf and the dwarf that we
knocked out, as well?

MATT: Yes, you can.

TRAVIS: And can I ask Pike to heal me, because I
look like a game of tic-tac-toe?

MATT: (laughs) Okay.

LAURA: I know, we should check on Grog.

TRAVIS: Oh, no, don't think of me, please. I've
only been fucking missing for two weeks.

LAURA: You're standing up? I'm so happy you're
back with us.

MATT: What'd you roll on investigation?

LIAM: 13.

MATT: 13? Okay. You can't seem to find anything
out of the remains of the mind flayer,

unfortunately.

MARISHA: I drop my earth elemental form.

MATT: Okay. (shoomf) The earth around your form
seems to crumble, like a layer of rock. It hits

the ground and dissolves into the stone beneath
you.

LAURA: See? I told you it was Keyleth.

MARISHA: Were you watching, Grog? Grog, you
weren't watching.

TRAVIS: No, totally was. It was amazing what you
did. Could you do it again?

MARISHA: After we take a short rest.

SAM: Anything in the tent?

MATT: You check inside. It looks like there's some
traveling blankets, some furs. You do also find a

small case that contains a bunch of empty vials.
There is one filled vial. A very large vial.

SAM: Oh. Superior healing. All right. Great.

MATT: And you find--

TRAVIS: (whispers) Can you fucking heal me,
please? Can you please heal me?

SAM: What the hell?

ORION: I place the circlet on my head.

LAURA AND SAM: What is it?

LIAM: Probably a cursed item.

MATT: You can't have it with an Ioun Stone either,
by the way. It's one or the other.

ORION: (stammering) I thought that was a...

MATT: It's a head slot.

ORION: And for Ioun Stones I can have up to three
in the head slot?

MATT: Correct.

ORION: Okay.

MARISHA: Maybe give it to Scanlan. Scanlan, do you
have anything in your head slot?

SAM: "Just my cunning wit!" I don't even know what
a head slot is.

LAURA: It's where a hat goes.

ORION: Then for the time being, I take off the
Ioun Stone and I (fzzt) dissipate it and...

put it on.

MATT: Okay.

SAM: Oh, can you share?

ORION: This essentially allows me to--

MATT: Anyone who wears it.

ORION: (stammering) Anyone who wears it can
maintain two concentration spells for two rounds.

LAURA: Oh, that's great for you.

MATT: It's great for a lot of people.

TRAVIS: Could you do that cheer where I feel a lot
better after you do it?

MATT: Pike comes up and says, "I'm sorry! I'm
sorry, Grog," goes over and places

her hands upon you.

As she's about to, Kima pushes her aside, and
says, "I've got this." Walks up, and you can see

this divine glowing energy. It fills her hands.
She reaches out and touches you and this warmth

fills-- this warmth fills your torso. Using her
Lay On Hands ability, Lady Kima of Vord heals you

for 38 points of damage.

LAURA: Did I find anything on the other people?

TRAVIS: Thank you, Kima.

MATT: You look through the bodies. It looks like
most of their adornments, other than the natural

armor and weapons they have, nothing of particular
interest. Make an investigation check.

LAURA: Oh, wait, I get to go twice because it's
Underdark. That was great. 16.

MATT: Okay. 16? Yeah, you're not able to really
pull anything from their bodies, unfortunately.

However, after Kima finishes healing you, Kima
walks over to the dwarf corpse as you're

inspecting it and gives it a look-over and shakes
her head.

LAURA: What do you see, Kima?

MATT: (sighs) "This was one of my companions."

LAURA: (gasps) Oh, no.

MATT: "Well, judging by the scars across his body,
he had already been made a thrall of one of the

"illithid. Most likely the one that we finished
back there."

SAM: Killed her friend?

LAURA: He was already a thrall.

MATT: "There wasn't much to really bring him back
at this point, I fear."

LAURA: Is that what they would've done to Grog?

MATT: And as you guys all look at Grog now, you
can see him, he has hundreds upon hundreds of

small scars across his body: fresh wounds that
have just barely sealed. It looks like they've

done a number on him with a bunch of small blades,
hooks, razors-- it's hard to tell. But he is

coated with small cuts.

TRAVIS: It's been interesting.

LAURA: You look really manly now.

TRAVIS: Now?

MARISHA: (laughs) Have we done some healing? Has
healing been done?

MATT: You guys can short rest if you want to heal
yourselves with your hit dice.

LIAM: This is the time for an intermission.

LAURA: Oh, it is?

LIAM: Yeah.

MARISHA: Is it? What time is it?

ORION: It's 8:24.

SAM: It's only just begun.

LIAM: (singing) We've only just begun. (speaking)
Because we went right into battle.

MARISHA: I wanted to talk to my team. Can we talk
now or talk after break? It's up to you.

SAM: Let's talk now.

LIAM: Vax is walking off into the distance to
urinate on a stalagmite or stalactite, whatever's

the one on the ground.

MARISHA: Well, we'll wait for Vax to get back.

SAM: We'll bring him up to speed later.

TRAVIS: Just talk loudly.

MARISHA: Well, I don't-- Where's Kima?

LAURA: She's right here.

MATT: Kima's with you. Kima's still looking over
the body of the dwarf that's fallen.

TRAVIS: Speak!

LIAM: Oh, that's a relief! Oh!

LAURA: (whispering) Do you not want to talk in
front of Kima?

MARISHA: (whispering) I don't want to talk in
front of Kima. (speaking) Kima? Earmuffs, Kima.

LAURA: No, that's awkward.

TRAVIS: You want me to distract her?

LIAM: It's the longest pee ever.

TRAVIS: I'll distract her! I'll distract Kima.

LAURA: Grog goes and distracts Kima.

SAM: I might be better at that. Kima, can you take
a walk with me? I would like to persuade you to

take a walk with me.

MATT: Go ahead and roll persuasion.

SAM: 24.

MATT: Okay. Kima gives you a concerned look and
goes--

SAM: There's this thing on my body. I thought
maybe you could take a look at it and you could

tell me if it's good or bad? I don't know.

MATT: "Oh dear. No, please."

TRAVIS: Scanlan, do not drop the mack.

MATT: And the two of you begin to walk away for a
moment, away from the party. Briefly, while the

rest of you are left behind.

MARISHA: Scanlan, do you have an earring?

SAM: I have an earring.

MARISHA: Okay, so Scanlan can hear.

SAM: I use my Minor Illusion to create a purple
third nipple on me that I show her and ask her if

it's okay, or if it's--

MATT: Okay, things are getting a little weird.

SAM: Is this normal?

MATT: "None of this is normal. At all."

SAM: It's just, I trust you. I feel like I know
you. You know we had that thing back there and

then Keyleth was yelling at you. What was that all
about?

MATT: "We're all under duress."

SAM: Let's girl talk.

MATT: "We're under a lot of duress. The more and
more things-- people have emotions and I

"understand that. It's all right." And she pulls
the leather gloves off that are part of the full

leather armor set and begins to inspect you. In
the meantime, you guys can continue your

discussion.

MARISHA: I think we should get out of here.

LAURA: What? Why?

MARISHA: Well, we've got Grog. We've got Kima. We
came here to find Kima. That was our mission. I

don't trust her.

LAURA: We found her, but we can't leave without
her.

LIAM: So I'm walking back from my pee and I've
overheard this. "We were sent here to bring back Kima."

LAURA: And now you want to abandon her?

LIAM: She's not going to come with us until we've
killed this K'Varn.

LAURA: Keyleth, what's your problem with Kima?

MARISHA: Well, look. She's been... She just gave
me the wrong vibe, up front.

LAURA: Okay, vibe. What did she do?

MARISHA: She's been very rude--

LAURA: She's been very tortured. Tortured,
Keyleth.

MARISHA: Right. But look what happened. She's
brought countless people down here, only to meet

their end.

ORION: Well, none of those people are us.

MARISHA: Right.

LAURA: They're dead because they got captured.
We're stronger.

LIAM: Do you know something we don't, Keyleth?

MARISHA: Look, all I know is that only a fool
believes that his path is the most virtuous. See?

And he's got an intelligence of six.

LIAM: I want to use my-- I would like to do a
check on Keyleth.

MATT: Okay.

LIAM: I want to see her intentions.

TRAVIS: (squealing) Ooh, inside-the-group check! I
love it!

LIAM: It's a 14.

MATT: A 14. All right.

LAURA: (laughing) Sneaky, sneaky Keyleth.

TRAVIS: The whisper! The first whisper!

SAM: Get on camera. Get on camera. Over here, over
here.

TRAVIS: Whisper on camera. He used to do this all
the time. When shit goes down and all of us can't

know, he whispers. And he sticks his tongue in
your ear a little bit.

ORION: It's really nice.

LAURA: I can't cheat, but I really want to
listen.

TRAVIS: What was that shit about now I'm manly?

LAURA: You are manly. I meant more manly.

SAM: Hey everyone, buy a t-shirt! Subscribe to
Geek & Sundry. Support Felicia Day.

MATT: As you finish your statement as well,
Keyleth, Clarota steps up and says, "I

"wholeheartedly agree. She is unstable and cannot
be trusted in her state."

LIAM: Hold on a second, that's unfair.

MARISHA: Why?

LIAM: It has been a long road. Keyleth, I know you
have had a hard time. We all have. I know we're

miles below the surface of the world. But we're
together. We are family. And everyone here is here

for you as you have been for us. Now, I say we
camp for the night inside this schmuck's tent. We

stay here, we rest up, sleep on it, and see how
we're all feeling in the morning. We're here for

you, Keyleth, and we'll protect you as you have
protected us. You've got a family with us.

MARISHA: (crying) How do we know we are doing the
right thing? We've killed a lot of people, you

guys. We've killed a lot of people.

LIAM: Who in this world is without fault? Who
hasn't made mistakes? We certainly all have.

LAURA: Keyleth, we're keeping him, K'Varn, from
killing even more.

MARISHA: How do we know we're not just interfering
with issues that aren't our own? We didn't know

any of this until we came down here, and look she
wants to take the horn. She wants the horn, and

she wants to take it back herself.

LIAM: The bottom line is, all of this insanity is
going to bubble up to the surface if someone

doesn't stop it.

LAURA: All those creatures that have been coming
up, Keyleth?

LIAM: Remember, think back. It has already begun,
and no one is here to stop it except for Vox

Machina. Us.

TALIESIN: We promise, we will heed your warning,
but we can't run. We will heed it, though.

LIAM: We've got your back.

MATT: "We made a deal."

TALIESIN: And we made a deal.

LAURA: We did make a deal.

MARISHA: I understand you, Clarota, and I'm on
your side. I swear. But a lot of people-- there

have been a lot of murderers who said they did the
things that they did because their gods told them

to do it. Right?

TALIESIN: We'll be cautious, and we'll have you to
protect us.

ORION: I dissipate invisible, and I approach
Keyleth. "Your Highness. By the honor of all

"Stormwinds, I will let nothing happen to you. I
swear it. I will fight until my death, and I have

"ways, of course, to get us all out of here
whenever I damn well please. Do not worry."

MARISHA: I just have a bad feeling. This horn
can't make it back up to the surface. You guys

have to promise me that.

LAURA: We'll keep the horn from leaving.

MARISHA: She wants to take it back. Why? If it's
that bad, why does she want it?

LIAM: That may be so, but the evil that is brewing
beneath the surface of the world will stretch up

to everything we know. And I know that you have
made mistakes. I have certainly made mistakes.

That is to live. There is more at stake right now,
and we are the front line. We're the only ones who

can stop it. Mistakes are all right.

TALIESIN: The god in darkness will blot out the
light.

MARISHA: I just hope we're not the darkness.

ORION: Oh, do you need light? (fwoosh)

MARISHA: Oh, god.

ORION Oh, is that-- I'm sorry

LAURA: Thanks, Tiberius.

MATT: "I'm not sure what this is. I'm sorry."

SAM: "There's one more thing I need you to look
at, it's just..." I cast Polymorph on myself, giving

myself a gigantic dick, and I slowly pull down my
pants...

MATT: Kima immediately turns around and says,
"Okay!" And walks back to the group.

TRAVIS: What did I say? You can't keep it in for
two seconds. Not that I blame you! My god!

LIAM: I think we are all a little frayed. I think
we need to rest. Let's set up camp.

TRAVIS: Yeah, let's camp.

MATT: Kima steps in at this point and says, "I
agree. (sigh) We have quite a journey ahead of us."

At which point, Clarota pipes up and says,
"Indeed. We're not too far from Yug'Voril. Let us rest."

MARISHA: Kima. I... just wanted to apologize.

MATT: "What for?"

MARISHA: I came across too harshly that night.

MATT: She puts her hand up and... in a matronly
way. "It's honestly not a worry. War is stressful,

"and all of us have been through a lot for this
experience. I understand. I've been where you've

"been, and it's not uncommon to question everything
around you, and with good reason: that's what

"keeps you alive. Were you to believe every person
that crossed your path, you would not have made it

"past your 15th season. I can assure you, as best
as I can, that I mean the best for all of us. I

"just know that if we don't do what we're here to
do, far more people will suffer than the few I've

"brought down here to protect me and for me to
protect. I'm not asking for your trust. I'm just

"asking for your patience."

MARISHA: Well, I can grant you that. Only if you
promise to grant us respect in return, because I

feel you were a little untrusting of what we were
doing up front, which I once again understand.

MATT: "You caught me at a rough time."

MARISHA: Same here.

MATT: "Well, thank you."

LIAM: I'm sorry, Scanlan, what is that?

SAM: Oh, this bulge down here?

MATT: "That's bedtime is what that is. All right,
everyone, let's go ahead and find ourselves a rest."

All right. So as everyone goes to camp for
the evening we are going to go ahead and take a

break. Potty break for folks. We'll be back here
in about ten or so minutes.

TRAVIS: Could you un-Polymorph your tripod, for
god's sake?

ORION: Before we go to sleep, I cast a bunch of
spells in stuff.

MATT: All right, guys. Awesome See you in a little
bit.

[dramatic music]

ASHLEY: Pike grew up on the outskirts of town,
near the Bramblewood. Her ancestors were a family

of deep gnomes with quite an unfavorable
reputation. Thievery, destruction, and trickery

left them with the curse of the last name
Trickfoot. Sarenrae, the goddess of healing and

redemption, had other plans for Pike's
great-great-grandfather Wilhand, who left his

family at a young age after a dream: a dream that
changed the course of the Trickfoot family.

Wilhand devoted his life to Sarenrae and pledged
from then on that him and his family would live a

life of service and devotion.

As a child, Pike seemed to have an affinity to
heal. Whether it was animals, people, or even

flowers, she felt she had a purpose in making
things whole that had once been broken. She

studied and learned the ways to heal though divine
magic.

She lived a peaceful life, quiet and simple, until
one day, Wilhand was captured and almost killed by

a group of goliath barbarians. One of the goliaths
took a stand against the murder of the innocent

gnome and he himself was beaten, bloodied, and
left for dead, abandoned by his herd. Wilhand went

to Pike for help. She prayed and healed this
barbarian as best she could, bringing him back to

life.

When he awoke, she discovered his name was Grog
Strongjaw. After that, they were best of friends,

a rather unlikely pair. Little did she know that
in a few years' time, Grog would soon return the

favor and bring her back from the clutches of
death. (roar, crunch)

After being killed in battle, Pike felt angry. She
wanted to be stronger so that it would never

happen again. She spent four months at sea
training with the men and women aboard a ship

called the Broken Howl.

Gripping her holy symbol in one hand, and her
morningstar in the other, this time, Pike is

ready.

TRAVIS: Right, Listen up! If you have ale, then
you have a friend in Grog Strongjaw. A goliath of

towering height and size, this barbarian has an
appetite for the two great loves in his life:

combat, women, and ale! (chuckle)

(record scratch) Wait.

Easily the brains of the group, Grog is often
consulted for his vast knowledge of shapes,

colors, and (chuckle) shiny things!

Also ale.

In his early years, armed with his two-handed
great axe, Grog often enjoyed proving his might

amongst the ranks of his family's wandering herd.
But after coming upon an unsuspecting elderly

gnome--

[music]

TRAVIS: Right, Listen up! If you have ale, then
you have a friend in Grog Strongjaw. A goliath of

towering height and size, this barbarian has an
appetite for the two great loves in his life:

combat, women, and ale! (chuckle)

(record scratch) Wait.

Easily the brains of the group, Grog is often
consulted for his vast knowledge of shapes,

colors, and (chuckle) shiny things!

Also ale.

In his early years, armed with his two-handed
great axe, Grog often enjoyed proving his might

amongst the ranks of his family's wandering herd.
But after coming upon an unsuspecting elderly

gnome in the woods, he objected to the killing of
such an innocent life. A creature of impulse, Grog

felt only pity for this-- well, this terrified
little thing. And his disobedience cost him

dearly.

Beaten bloody and banished by the herd leader, his
uncle Kevdak, Grog was abandoned and left to die,

exiled from his herd. It was then that the
relative of the very gnome he fought to save,

saved him. It was the kindness of a gnome cleric
named Pike that healed Grog, bringing him back

from death's edge. And they have remained close
friends ever since.

Most nights, Grog can be found challenging entire
taverns to wrestling matches! Ha! Or accompanying

Scanlan to the nearest house where you pay for
lady favors.

Also ale!

MARISHA: A first impression of Keyleth would leave
you with little information on the half-elven

druid. You might even think that her social
awkwardness due to her sheltered upbringing is

kind of sweet. (chuckle)

Of course, it would be unwise to underestimate her
based on first impressions. (thunder) Under that

unintimidating petite frame is a vicious beast
waiting to be unleashed, whose natural powers have

made even the fiercest of champions pee their
pants, literally! (soft chuckle)

Born to the Air Tribe of the Ashari people,
Keyleth was raised with a deep love of nature and

the elemental magics. It is her people's inherent
duty to protect the delicate areas in Tal'Dorei

where the four elemental planes begin to bleed
with this realm.

Since she was a little girl, she had quite a knack
for air manipulation and beast shaping abilities.

Well, if you consider kittens and flying squirrels
to be little beasts. Which, I do. (clears throat)

Anyways, it wasn't long before the headmaster of
the tribe, her father, Korren, realized her true

prodigious abilities and she was inveterated to
succeed him as the next headmaster.

Just like that, her jovial childhood was stripped
and replaced with endless spell memorization,

teachings from ancient traditions, and exceedingly
high expectations. Every druid leader to be must

embark on a journey to seek out the sister tribes in
order to introduce and establish respect amongst

the fellow headmasters. They call this the
Aramente, or Noble Odyssey. When her father felt

she was ready, he set her on the path to truly
discovering herself, not knowing when, or if, she

will ever return.

As she hiked down the mountain towards Stillben,
she meditated on the task ahead. Part of the

Aramente is proving yourself a strong warrior, a
valiant protector, and a wise and compassionate

leader. With this knowledge, one thought plays on
repeat in her mind: Is she even worthy?

TALIESIN: Percy was the third of seven children,
born to a noble family who lived far to the north

in the ancient castle of Whitestone. With so many
siblings to share the burdens of lordship, Percy

turned his attentions to the sciences,
engineering, and naturalism.

One day, a mysterious couple named Lord and Lady
Briarwood came to court. During a feast held in

their honor, the Briarwoods violently took control
of the castle, killing or imprisoning everyone who

would stand in their way.

Percy awoke chained in the dungeon, only to be
freed by his younger sister. Together they fled,

chased by the Briarwoods' men. As they ran,
Percy's sister took several arrows to the chest

and fell. Percy kept running, eventually jumping
into a freezing river and floating unconscious to

freedom. He did not remember waking up on a
fishing boat. He barely remembered the next two

years, as he slowly made his way as far south as
possible.

Then one night, Percy had a dream. A roaring cloud
of smoke offered him vengeance against those who

destroyed his family. When he awoke, Percy began
to design his first gun. (gunshot)

SAM: Oh, you haven't heard of Scanlan Shorthalt?
Well, gird your loins, ladies, because he has his

eye on you.

A talented musician, master of disguise, and
dashingly handsome in his own mind, Scanlan sings

songs almost as much as he sings his own praises.

Born a poor gnome, Scanlan used his endless charm
and soaring tenor voice to croon for coin and

support his single mother. One day he was
discovered by a half-orc promoter, and joined Dr.

Dranzel's Spectacular Traveling Troupe, where he
learned the ways of the world, and honed his

skills as a bard extraordinaire.

A loner much of his life, Scanlan has never quite
come to terms with the violent death of his mother

at the hands of a goblin invasion. While his years
on the road provided many, shall we say,

educational experiences with the opposite sex,
deep down, Scanlan yearns for the one thing he's

never known: the true love of a fellow gnome.

Still, Scanlan considers himself a lover first,
performer second, and fighter distant third. On

the battlefield, he'll support his allies, but
rarely draws blood, unless it's to protect fellow

gnome, Pike.

Count on Scanlan for a hearty laugh, a rollicking
song, and a twinkle in his eye that melts hearts

and makes the females swoon.

ORION: Greetings and salutations. I am Tiberius
Stormwind. I hail from a town called Ty'rex,

located in the heart of Draconia.

From a politically respected family, at the age of
15, I succeeded in passing the Sorcerer's Rite,

showing prodigy-like control of my magic. The
judges and the Draconian high council were amazed

at how powerful my spells were for how long I had
been training. At 20 years old, I was the youngest

appointed member of the magic guild in Draconian
history. For the next few years, I almost went mad

from the malaise of being a guild member, as it's
rather boring.

However, one day I happened upon a chamber, unused
for quite some time. In the room were stacks of

books and maps of the surrounding cities and areas
around the known world. For months, I would

frequent the chamber, and learned of artifacts
from legend.

After a long period of research, I made a list of
artifacts that caught my eye. I brought these

findings to the high council and was told that all
of the information in the chamber I had stumbled

upon was either believed to be fiction, or
unsolvable mysteries, and hence were lost forever.

I found those answers to be unacceptable.

A year later, I devised a ruse and managed to
convince the city council to lend support in me

leaving Draconia on a mission of peace and
diplomacy for the surrounding kingdoms, going from

town to town and making friends and allies, in and
for the name of Draconia. Being a red dragonborn,

I had quite the task on my hands in that respect,
but it was exactly what I needed so I could

explore the world and find these artifacts, as I
felt the truth was out there.

Some may describe me as buffoonish, but I say
poppycock to all that. I am much sharper than most

give me credit for. I just don't pay attention to
things sometimes. I've also been known to be

rather cunning, loyal, happy-go-lucky, and well,
dangerous. I can't help but show my true scales

every now and then. But overall, I think I'm quite
friendly for a dragonborn!

LIAM: Never entirely welcome in the company of
elves or men, Vax'ildan learned at a young age to

skip past formality, preferring instead to invite
himself in your door.

Along with twin sister Vex'ahlia, Vax was born by
a chance encounter between elven royalty and human

peasantry. Raised by their mother in their early
years, the twins were eventually sent off to their

father in the elven capital of Syngorn. But their
cool reception among the elves there never warmed,

and their time in the capital didn't last. The
siblings stole away one autumn night and set out

on the open road.

After a few years of wandering, they eventually
decided to return to their mother, and journeyed

back to the lands of their youth. But instead of
finding their childhood home, they returned to a

pile of rubble. Their mother was gone, their home
burned to ash. Pressing the townspeople for

answers, they learned of the day the dragon came.
(roar) With their ties all severed, Vax'ildan and

his sister set out to find their fortune together
in Tal'Dorei.

An outsider since birth, Vax quickly learned to
solve life's challenges in his own particular way,

often by side-stepping them entirely. And when his
knack for circumventing adversity isn't enough,

(knife scraping) the way of blades the elves
schooled him in more than makes up the

difference.

LAURA: Like so many half-elves, Vex'ahlia has
spent most of her life suffering the cool

reception of a people who don't fully accept her.
Born of a human mother and an elven father who

only later in life took an interest in their
existence, Vex'ahlia and her twin brother

Vax'ildan quickly realized the only people they
could truly rely on in this world were each

other.

It was at the age of ten when the two were taken
from their mother and brought to live in Syngorn,

the isolated elven city for which their father was
an ambassador. He quietly took them in, but always

kept an icy distance, and after too many years of
disdainful looks, the pair decided to leave his

indifference behind, and set out on their own.

Vax took to the cities, stealing small trinkets
and learning the ways of the thief, while Vex kept

to the woods; she preferred the isolation.

Always the keen observer, she learned to hunt and
to track, to spy and to shoot. And through a

series of fateful events, earned herself a
companion in the form of a bear-- her own stolen

Trinket-- to fight alongside her and protect her
fiercely.

Also, he is adorable, and gives expert massages.

[dramatic music]

MATT: Welcome back, everyone. We've been
sufficiently rested. First, we're going to say

thank you and welcome to all our new viewers.
Welcome to Critical Role and all of its chaos: A

bunch of voice actors playing Dungeons & Dragons.

I also want to congratulate the first winner of
our TableTop promo kit this evening, Zargross won.

Well done. We'll be giving out another one at
2,750. So 2,750 subscribers and someone else in

the chat room will win another promo kit. So
that's cool.

LIAM: We will be here every week, so subscribe.

MATT: Also, t-shirts on sale, as of today. They
are a limited run for two weeks. We are trying to

get to our goal of 1,000 before that's done,
hopefully. So you can just scroll down to the

bottom of the Twitch page; you'll find a button
there that will get you to that shop.

So go for it!

MARISHA: Wait! Also, the PayPal is working again,
for donations.

MATT: All right, so the 826 donation's working
again. Yay!

Let us begin. So after an evening's rest, taking
your respective turns keeping watch, all of you

come to consciousness once more. Clarota anxiously
sits at the edge of the camping facility, looking

deeper into the tunnel ahead, keeping his eyes
peeled in the darkness.

SAM: I check under my belt because the spell has
worn off. And I'm back down to my normal one and a

half inches. Which on a gnome is pretty big.

LAURA: Thank you.

SAM: Length! And girth.

LAURA: Oh god, what?

SAM: It's like a square. Like a cube.

MATT: Anyway, you guys eventually come to
consciousness and finish cooking whatever bits of

food you've managed to muster at this point in
time in the Underdark.

LAURA: It's doughnuts.

MATT: Yeah, it is doughnuts. Under-doughnuts.

MARISHA: And Indian food, apparently.

TALIESIN: Under-Indian.

MATT: By the way, all of those who contributed to
getting us food tonight, thank you so much.

ALL: Thank you!

MATT: Clarota seems slightly impatient as everyone
is waking up and goes, "Come! Ahead, we shall find

"it's Yug'Voril."

LAURA: That's your city?

MATT: "Beautiful city of secrets."

LAURA: I thought your people had thrown you out.
Why so eager to get back?

MATT: "Without the colony, I serve no purpose. I
am wandering, aimless. I wish to return to the

"Elder Brain."

LIAM: And to be fair, he was only thrown out once
K'Varn took over the Elder Brain. Correct?

MATT: "No. They threw me out long before, for my
gift." And you see a little spark of arcane blue

filter out of his fingers in the air and then
(poof). Small spark. "It is an abomination to my

"people. I am considered anathema. But to save
them! To save my city, then they shall have me

"back a hero."

LAURA: And if they don't?

MATT: "They will. I can sense it."

ORION: Well, yes, it makes perfect sense, Clarota.
I would think they would grant you a hero's

welcome, as well.

LAURA: If not, you have a home with us.

MATT: "Thank you. Forward, we will find shrouded
in the forest of fungus our destination. Come." It

begins to drift down into the dark tunnel further
below.

TALIESIN: We follow.

TRAVIS: Yeah, we follow.

ORION: I follow behind them and call out to him,
"Are you using Levitation, or what? How are you--

"is this how you--"

MATT: "It's how we get around, dragonborn."

ORION: Oh, okay.

MATT: His tentacles flicker at his face for a
second. As you guys continue forward in silence,

K'Varn seems to be more chatty than usual, almost
like the proximity is-- this is excitement to him,

instinctually.

MARISHA: Did you mean Clarota? You said K'Varn.

MATT: I meant Clarota.

LIAM: Slip of the tongue!

TRAVIS: I was like, "oh shit."

LAURA: See, he slipped-of-the-tongue before and he
screwed us over with a sneaky-sneaky!

MATT: It's been a long week. I know. Sorry. As
Clarota drifts, "Our people, we are a structured

"society. Together we provide for each other.
Broken into creeds, we function rather

"pleasantly." And he drifts forward again at full
pace.

LAURA: Clarota seems pretty excited to get home.
I'm worried for him.

LIAM: Worried for him?

LAURA: Yes.

LIAM: What, for his effect on the group?

LAURA: I'm worried that they won't take him back,
what that will do to his state.

LIAM: Well, the bottom line is, (sighs) we have a
pretty clear goal at hand. Everything else will

have to be figured out afterward.

ORION: I still follow Clarota. I'm like, "So is
it-- do you do it with your mind, or is it just

"like-- were you all taught as a child to be able
to levitate, because it seems--"

MATT: "It's inherent, much like your gifts. It's
just how we get around."

ORION: Good to know. Understood.

TALIESIN: K'Varn, the god in darkness. I want to
wrack my brain to think if I've ever had any

lessons or if that name has ever come up in any of
my reading.

MATT: All right. It'd be a history check. Like a
super-super history check.

TALIESIN: History check?

LIAM: A super history check.

TALIESIN: No whammies. That's a 13.

MATT: 13? The name is as fresh to you as it was
the day you heard it.

TALIESIN: Oh, fiddlesticks.

TRAVIS: I walk over to Lady Kima and I say,
"How's that that greatsword been treating you?"

MATT: She walks and she's using it almost like a
stick in the dirt as she takes a step. "You know,

"it's served its purpose so far, I just (sighs) I
wish... I wish that vault wasn't lost. Leather isn't

"my idea of defensive."

LAURA: Would you fancy a trade, Kima? I have elven
chainmail, if that would help you.

MATT: "Perhaps?"

LAURA: I could take that leather armor off your
hands?

SAM: But you'll be vulnerable, won't you?

LAURA: No, actually. The chainmail isn't right for
me.

MATT: "Certainly."

(laughs) She looks to you, specifically.
(laughs)

LAURA: (laughs) Stick figure... (laughs)

ORION: Stick figure!

(all laugh)

TRAVIS: Got it! Got it. We're good.

MATT: "Perhaps we'll find a more modest place to
swap, but yes, I agree."

LAURA: Dang it, I should've done that before we--

SAM: I can make you a modest spot to change?

LIAM: Grog, are you skinning a boar over there?
What are you doing?

TRAVIS: Yeah, that's what they call it in some
countries.

(all laugh)

MATT: Some of you summon the stapler straw.

MARISHA: Summon the staples!

MATT: (laughs) All right, so. As you continue to
press forward deeper into this tunnel network, the

air begins to grow steadily colder and colder. The
temperature, it's-- you begin to see your breath a

little bit in the air.

ORION: Am I mistaken? You're really damaged still?

LIAM: We slept!

MATT: Yeah, you guys all slept overnight.

TRAVIS: I'm up to full, yeah.

ORION: So, the scars are...?

LAURA: The scars are cool!

MATT: I mean, the visual scars are still there but
he's at full hit points. They're healing slowly.

TRAVIS: Yeah, don't you fix these.

ORION: As I notice, I go, "Anybody with (mumbling)
knowledge of medicine should give a whack at

"cleaning some of those."

SAM: Oh, you know what, though? Before we go any
further, I remind Pike that Vax's foot damage

needs daily repair, doesn't it?

MATT: "Oh! Yes, of course!" She comes over and you
guys take a slight break as Pike comes and sets

you down.

LIAM: It's not pretty to look at.

LAURA: She's seen it already, brother.

MATT: "Oh, I've seen worse."

TRAVIS: Wait, what happened to your foot?

LAURA: It got melted off. Aw, come on, not again!

TRAVIS: Oh my god! (laughs) That looks awful.
Really awful.

LIAM: It's fine, except the pinkie toe

LAURA: He's got a little pinkie nubbin!

LIAM: Pinky toe's a nubbin now, yeah

TRAVIS: You know, we could just take care of the
whole thing right now, if you want.

ORION: No, Grog, that defeats the purpose.

TRAVIS: No? Rash? ...all right.

LIAM: I need Percy to make me a replacement first.

TALIESIN: Make a little metal toe?

LIAM: Pike, could you hook a brother up?

MATT: "Certainly." She sets the foot down, she
begins to gather up her runes, and she's casting a

4th-level spell.

LAURA: She should've done it before we went to
sleep.

MATT: Aye, but alas, she's not here. Sorry,
Ashley. So that would be the equivalent of about

32 hit points. She's also going to attempt a
medicine roll, as well. Okay. You notice there is

some progress that is slow, but some of the burn
scarring from the dip in the magma is beginning to

slowly subside. Fresh skin is beginning to show,
but it's still pretty rough.

LAURA: It still smells amazing, so if you could
just--

TRAVIS: It does smell amazing, actually.

SAM: It's like a weasel on your leg.

LAURA: Clarota, are we planning on going to your
village before we go see K'Varn, or are we going

after K'Varn first? I'm confused.

MATT: "K'Varn resides within the city, the
temple."

LAURA: Oh, is he a mind flayer, then? I mean, is
he like you?

MATT: "I have not seen him myself, since I was
cast out before he took the star, took my people

"under his spell."

TALIESIN: Just to be clear, the temple of what?

MATT: He leans forward for a second. "The temple.
We don't know its original purpose. The city we

"acquired, we found, we took root. Yug'Voril
existed long before our colony did."

TALIESIN: Okay. That's good to know. That's very
good to know. Thank you.

MATT: "Very well..." He continues floating forward.
The air, still chilly, with steadily more and more

moisture. The rock walls become less and less
jagged, growing smoother from endless years of

condensation, mineral drip, and slow erosion.
Begin to give that smooth inner cave look to the

outsides of this tunnel.

LIAM: As we walk, Vax falls in next to Keyleth.
"Keyleth?"

MARISHA: Yes? What?

LIAM: We're walking. Are you all right?

MARISHA: I'm doing okay.

LIAM: You are?

MARISHA: Yeah. Why?

LIAM: Everything we said last night was true.
We're here for you.

MARISHA: I'm here for you, too.

TALIESIN: We're having a discussion of how best to
go about this.

LAURA: While that happens, can I use my Primeval
Awareness to sense if I sense any dragons in the

city coming up in front of us?

MATT: Certainly. As you're walking, the group
slows with you, as you have to really maintain

concentration on this. You close your eyes and you
consider. You sense no sources of dragon within

the radial of your ability to sense in this cavern
structure.

TRAVIS: Are our feet leaving footprints?

MATT: Subtle ones, but yeah.

TRAVIS: Son of a bitch! Dust of Tracelessness
everywhere!

(all laugh)

TRAVIS: Good!

TALIESIN: Missed our little flower girl.

MARISHA: I know! So glad we have him back.

TALIESIN: I want to just put something out on the
headsets really quickly. "When we get into the

"city, I need everyone to promise that we're not
going to enter the temple. No one rush in, no one

"be brash. No one make a poor decision. We're going
to wait. No matter what happens, don't enter the

"temple until we've all had a moment to figure out
what's happening."

LIAM: No one be a yahoo.

ORION: Agreed.

MARISHA: I think it's a trap.

TALIESIN: If there's going to be a trap, it's
going to be getting us into the temple.

MARISHA: He wants us. He wants us there.

TALIESIN: He literally invited us into the temple.

LAURA: So don't go to the temple.

TALIESIN: We walk to the temple, we don't enter
the temple.

LAURA: So enter the temple. Understood.

TALIESIN: Understood. Excellent.

MATT: At this point, beginning to notice the
tunnel itself, the cavern, is swaying back and

forth a little bit with this. As opposed to a
straight path, the tunnel is beginning to arc left

and right. There's little pockets and crevices
beginning to show at certain points, and you start

seeing small bits of bluish crystal jutting in
small pockets out of cracks in the rock.

MARISHA: Did you say that there was mushrooms? A
mushroom forest, a fungus?

MATT: Clarota yesterday mentioned a fungal forest.

MARISHA: But we haven't seen it yet. But we're
starting to go into the crystal caverns.

MATT: Starting to find bluish crystals, which Pike
makes a motion. "Yes, I saw this in my vision, too!"

LAURA: Can I touch some of the crystals? Are they
removable?

MATT: You reach out and touch the crystal. As you
do, go ahead and-- no.

(all laugh)

TALIESIN: Dick move!

TRAVIS: I love it.

LAURA: The greed! The greed gets me.

MATT: (laughs) You reach out and touch the
crystal, and it's cold to the touch, as is most of

the stone wall, and you can see there's
condensation on it that gets on your fingers a

bit. It's smooth, except for the jagged points
where the natural formation juts out. You tug on

the crystal a little bit, find if there's any
place there that's moveable, and it's pretty solid

in that rock wall.

MARISHA: Does it appear to be producing cold?

MATT: No, the temperature doesn't seem different
at all to the air. There doesn't seem to be a

source at all; it's the same temperature as the
rest of the tunnel.

MARISHA: Can I do a nature check to figure out
what kind of crystal this may be?

MATT: Yeah, sure.

LAURA: Tiberius, these look like the crystals on
your staff.

ORION: "Hm? Oh, ooh, yes! They're pretty." I take
out one of my daggers-- yes, I do have daggers--

and (clicking noise) I'm going to chip away a
couple of chunks.

TALIESIN: Actually, let's grab a few chunks. I may
have an idea for later.

MARISHA: 13 for my nature check? Not that great,
it's all right.

TALIESIN: Throw a few into the Bag of Holding.

MATT: All right. I will say, go ahead and make an
Arcana check as well?

ORION: Oh, yeah, okay. (mumbling) 14.

MATT: 14? Okay. It's hard-pressed to find out
where these crystals came from, what their source

is, or if they naturally are here or if they're
put there through some other means, but the

crystals do have a very, very faint magical
residual energy to them. Useless, almost. It's the

equivalent of finding crumbs at the bottom of a
cereal box. It's there. You can see at one point

there was something magical about their presence
or their creation, but it is long faded.

ORION: Cool. Sweet.

TRAVIS: Do you still want more of them?

TALIESIN: I'll take a few.

TRAVIS: I go Hong Kong Phooey on the wall of
crystals with my axe and I just (snarling).

TALIESIN: Thank you!

MATT: When the noise dies down, you gather shards
and pieces. Probably enough to fill a small

bucket. You can indeed fill your small bucket,
should you have one.

That is your prerogative, Grog.

TRAVIS: I don't, but I have a fancy robe. And I
put it in there and I bundle it up.

MATT: Okay! If you had a stick, you could be a
crystal hobo.

TALIESIN: A fancy bundle of crystals.

MARISHA: We also have a fancy Bag of Holding.

LAURA: It's in the bag. It's all in the bag.

MATT: About a half an hour further down this
tunnel, both Vax and Vex simultaneously notice a

part of the wall to the left that is actually
visibly cracked and what appears to be almost a

narrow passage that juts off to the left. However,
there is a large boulder, solid stone, that is

wedged into this. Apparently blocking the
passage.

LIAM: Grog, we need you over here.

TRAVIS: What?

LAURA: Could you possibly move this very large,
very heavy boulder for us?

LIAM: Scanlan, you as well.

SAM: Of course.

TRAVIS: I need your help.

LAURA: Pike!

TRAVIS: I would like to move the boulder.

MATT: All right.

LAURA: Can I perception around it before we do
anything?

MATT: Certainly! Go ahead and roll perception.

TRAVIS: It's in the path?

LAURA: It's a side path that's been blocked.

LIAM: 15 for Vax.

LAURA: Oh, did you see it?! It was there and it
went like that! It was a 20 and then it went

(squeaky noise) because it was on the side. But
that's okay. 20 is what it ended up as.

MATT: 20? Okay. Both of you guys take a look.
There's nothing immediately dangerous at all. It

just looks like this rock was not naturally formed
here, of course. It looks like it was wedged in.

Like it was actually placed there intentionally.

TRAVIS: 26? On the strength check?

MATT: On the strength check? So as you guys are
explaining, "This seems to be a fairly--"

You don't even get to finish your sentence before
Grog goes-- grabs the boulder, gets underneath

and, lifting with the knees, Atlas-style. Puts the
weight on the back and (groans)--

SAM: I'm singing to help him, to inspire him.
"(singing) Push it, push it real good! Push it,

"push it real good!"

TRAVIS: (singing) Push it, push it real good.

MATT: With a resounding (scraping sound) scraping
sound and a large crack, some of the rocks that

it's wedged in break off and tumble to the sides,
and you get the boulder free and you're now

clutching it on top of you. And it's very, very
heavy.

ORION: Oh! I use my Mage Hand and I push it, too.

MATT: You lose your balance over the boulder as
it's now shoved off of its axis.

LAURA: Oh no!

MATT: It falls behind you, slamming into the wall,
blocking half the passage, the passage you guys

were going down immediately. You can still pass
it, you just have to walk around it. And you may

have tweaked something in your back a little in
the process.

LAURA: Oh, Grog, how's your back?

TRAVIS: I roll over on my stomach and I ask
Trinket to step on my back.

LAURA: Oh, Trinket, give him a massage. He's
really good at it!

TRAVIS: I roll over and have Trinket step on my
back.

MATT: Trinket gets up, pushes on you with the bear
claws.

MARISHA: Make biscuits, Trinket. Make biscuits on
Grog's back.

TRAVIS: (groans in relief)

MATT: You can hear the cracks.

LAURA: Can I look down the passageway that was
opened up?

TRAVIS: Thank god.

MATT: You can. The passage is very, very thin. It
can maybe fit you individually. It can barely fit

Grog when you actually go through the passage
proper.

SAM: It's pretty spacious in here, I think.

(all laugh)

MATT: For a gnome, yes. But yeah, it's pitch black
going forward. Which means you guys can see. It's

equivalent of low light for you in pitch darkness.
About 30 feet ahead of you, you can see the path

continues for a little bit and then widens up into
what looks like a small chamber. But you'd have to

get closer.

LAURA: Is it dangerous at all?

MATT: Make a perception check.

ORION: Everywhere is dangerous.

SAM: How far is the chamber?

MATT: About 30, 35 feet back. So?

LIAM: 21.

LAURA: 18.

MATT: Best you can tell, it just looks like a
chamber and it looks like a hallway.

TALIESIN: We should investigate.

MARISHA: It just looks like a death trap.

TRAVIS: If this is a tomb, I'm going to be so
pissed at the two of you.

LAURA: Tiberius, can you send a little light down
that passageway?

ORION: Yeah, sure. You want to shoot an arrow for
me, love?

LAURA: Let's do it.

LIAM: Vax chases the arrow.

SAM: You're just going to go down the hall?

LIAM: Yeah, stealth.

MATT: All right, so, as the light-- the arrow
shaft vibrantly bursts into bright,

Tiberius-created light. It arcs slightly down the
hallway. Only a 35-foot distance. It goes pretty

quickly and then (sound of arrow embedding itself)
into what looks like a piece of rock, actually

wedging itself into a piece of rock before falling
to the ground, chipping a chunk upon impact. As it

hits, you can see it's a small, roundish, oval
chamber. You can see what looks like small piles

on the ground at the far end. Still hard to make
out from this distance, but you are welcome to

enter.

LIAM: I followed it.

MATT: You followed it in?

LIAM: Yeah, I rolled a 26 on stealth.

MATT: Right. You rush in.

LIAM: Follow up the arrow.

SAM: Bear trap!

(all laugh)

MATT: First thing you understand: the air smells
faintly of ancient untouched dust and mildew.

LAURA: Oh no, what did we just let loose?

MATT: You glance at the floor and notice what
appear to be six long-dead bodies strewn across

the ground.

MARISHA: How long-dead?

MATT: Skeletal and covered in webs.

SAM: Who's in there? Just Vax right now?

MATT: Just now Vax.

LIAM: I'm going to check out the very first, the
closest body to the exit.

MATT: Okay, go ahead and make an investigation
check.

TRAVIS: Nah, it's fine. They're dead.

LIAM: 19.

MATT: 19, okay. As you look across the body, I
mean there's nothing formal about this area,

there's no fine, chiseled structure. It looks like
a natural formation. It just appears to have been

the final destination for whoever these
individuals were. And you do notice, the way

they're adorned, they were an adventuring party.
They were people who came down here long ago for

whatever reason and the last destination was this
small cavernous space.

LIAM: You said they're covered in webs?

MATT: There are webs on them, but the webs
themselves are small, natural spider.

LIAM: Small, natural. So not Bilbo Baggins.

MATT: But you do notice that each one of their
skulls has a giant hole bored into the bone

itself. Different places in the skull.

LIAM: I'm just going to start searching all of
them.

MATT: Anyone else want to do anything?

TALIESIN: I'm going to make my way, as well.

ORION: I thought we were all following.

MATT: The rest of you make your way in one by one.
It's a small room.

LAURA: I'm staying outside with Trinket and Grog.

MATT: Okay, you guys hang out there.

SAM: I feel like Pike wouldn't want us to do too
much damage to these bodies. I just feel like she

wouldn't want us to disturb them.

LIAM: I don't give a shit about these bodies. I
care about what they are carrying.

MATT: Okay, looking at it, you notice that they
have been here for at least 200 years. Two of the

bodies are male humans. There are two dwarven
bodies: one male, one's female.

LAURA: Armor. Look for armor!

MATT: One female gnome and one half-orc.

MARISHA: Wait, wait. What?

(all laugh)

ORION: Half-orc.

MARISHA: Half-orc? Okay. Hang on. You
listed all that off.

SAM: I'm going to inspect the gnome.

LIAM: You're not even in the room.

MATT: Okay, so you enter the room. Roll an
investigation check.

SAM: 19.

MATT: Okay. Looking at her, you find that most of
these bodies have already been for the most part

turned over and looted. Some of them have no
armor. They're either in plain clothes or it looks

like their bodies have been tossed and taken
whatever was on them, off. You do find, buried in

the dirt under the gnomish female what looks to be
a pristine ruby. Worth probably quite a bit.

ORION: I'm going to do an arcana check of 22. Just
on the pile of bodies.

MATT: Okay, I'll get to you in just a second. You,
as you're inspecting the bodies on the other side,

you come across the dwarven male is still fully
armored.

LAURA: Ooh!

ORION: Nice.

MATT: Actually has a golden chainmail on and is
clutching what looks like a metal maul. The rest

of them have no armor and no weapons. But this one
is still fully adorned. And you also notice that

the female dwarven corpse, while devoid of any
accoutrements, any coin purses, belts or anything,

does have, hidden within the bony clavicle, what
little bit of stretched dried skin is pulled

against it, a pendant that is gleaming blue.

LIAM: I grab the pendant, and then I start-- this
looks good for Pike, so I start taking the

chainmail off.

MATT: You pull the pendant and you look at it. It
has a very beautiful sapphire emblem and you rub

the dust off of it and you look at it. And you
recognize this emblem. This is the emblem that

adorns House Thunderbrand of Kraghammer. You turn
it over and on the back, there's an engraving on

the back that says: "For Lorna, my love."

LAURA: Oh! Didn't he say to bring back some stuff
from the Underdark?

ORION: Yes. This is what we need.

SAM: Who's he?

TRAVIS: That name sounds familiar, though.

LAURA: Oh wait, your magic guy said to bring back
some magic stuff from the Underdark.

SAM: From the Value of Valor. Tremaine? Was that
his name?

ORION: And that's what this is. Let me take it and
do-- I'll use that arcana check on that.

MATT: Yeah, the actual amulet itself does have a
magical essence to it.

ORION: I think this will do for our friend back up
on the surface. Or under surface.

SAM: Oh, it's something.

LAURA: What is it?

SAM: Amulet of the Shield.

ORION: (mumbling) This protective amulet of the
shield ... adding plus five to your AC against

that attack.

LAURA: What does it do?

SAM: It protects you.

MATT: It effectively acts as a Shield spell once
per day. Once per short rest.

SAM: Once per day?

MATT: Once per rest.

ORION: Nice. It's like a magic shield.

MATT: Yeah, it's a reaction.

TRAVIS: Do you have to be able to use magic to use
it?

MATT: No.

TRAVIS: Oh!

LAURA: I don't think so. Who has low AC that could
use it?

ORION: Well, I'm the only glass cannon.

MATT: So you're going over to the armor. You're
getting the armor for Pike? All right, as you

reach out and grab the golden chain mail on it,
the cold air around the chainmail is noticeably

piercingly cold to the touch. Make a constitution
save.

LAURA: Oh that's why it's still-- Oh no!

TRAVIS: What was it?

LAURA: One.

TRAVIS: One!

MATT: Natural one.

TRAVIS: We have a natural one

MATT: All right. As you guys are all doing this,
you hear the sudden (groans) this clenching of

breath, and you glance over real fast and find Vax
has fallen onto his back, and his fingers are

curled back, and you can see this dark energy that
seeps into his body for a second. You can see his

veins pulsing a little bit. You feel your form--
there's no physical damage taken to you

whatsoever, but you sense this sapping of your
strength, and your breath is shallow. You imagine

this is what an elderly person would feel like.
You have this lack of energy.

As you're saying this, Pike comes over to you,
Kima runs over to you and they both take a look at

you. Pike starts inspecting you, using her
medicine. And Kima, they both look at each other,

pass a few notes back and forth, and they both
agree. "Well, it appears this dwarven individual,

"when he came to his end, was not very happy and in
doing so left a very strong curse behind on his

"body." Look about to each other.

LAURA: Everything okay in there?

LIAM: (wheezing) No.

SAM: Is he dead?

MATT: No. You are considered cursed, which means
you have disadvantage on all your ability checks

and attacks.

LAURA: You're cursed?

MARISHA: How do we get rid of this?

MATT: There are spells like Remove Curse.

LAURA: I bet Pike has that spell.

TRAVIS: Remove Curse?

LAURA: I don't know?

MATT: Pike's not here. I don't have her spell
list.

TRAVIS: I could try it, hold on. Nope.

LAURA: Nothing?

MARISHA: What did you touch? What did you grab?

LIAM: Armor. It was the armor, wasn't it?

LAURA: It was that golden armor, yeah.

TRAVIS: Let's leave the golden armor alone.

LIAM: (strained) I got this for you, Pike.

MATT: Wait a second. Ha!

LAURA: Oh no.

MATT: All right.

TRAVIS: Oh no. Don't make him laugh.

MATT: So. At which point, Kima steps forward and
pushes everyone away for a second and

concentrates. And she reaches up and grabs the
holy symbol of Bahamut from underneath the front

of the leather armor, because she still hasn't
exchanged it with you. And it glows with this

vibrant silver light and the light travels down
her arm, to her hands, to her fingers, and she

places it out and reaches towards the armor and as
she touches it, she winces slightly, but you see

this glowing dark furious anger, this face arise
out of the armor, giving off this slight

whispering howl sound (whispering howl) and then
(poof) dissipate. As you see the divine energy

begin to dissipate and glide off her hand, she
reaches over and touches you with her hand, and

the curse is lifted.

SAM: Oh, that was easy.

MATT: I looked over and realized that oh, she
actually has that spell.

LIAM: So I grasp Kima by the hand and say, "That
is one I owe you. That's one I owe you."

MATT: She gives you a wink and says, "To be
honest, I just really wanted the armor." And she

pats you on the shoulder.

LIAM: It's yours.

MATT: She takes the golden chain off of the body,
she (chuckles) she tells-- no, you're out of the

room.

TRAVIS: Do you need me to create a curtain for you
to change behind?

LAURA: You're not in the room.

MATT: She finds a cranny in the room. She puts on
the chain mail, replacing the leather armor she

gives back.

LAURA: (whispers) Damn it. I was trying to get
it.

MATT: She does give you the greatsword and then
takes the maul from the corpse of this dwarf. But

as she takes it from the body, she sits down and
says a silent prayer. Clutches her symbol and as

she does, she takes from one of her pouches a
small bit of blessed water and tosses it across

the body of the dwarf. Puts it back away and
stands up. "All right. Shall we continue?"

TALIESIN: Right.

LIAM: As we leave the cavern, I give one of these
to the dwarven bodies.

MATT: You swear you hear a slight shift in bone.

LAURA: Ooh!

MATT: In silence left behind in darkness.

SAM: I'm going to take the ruby, too.

LAURA: Hey, did you get that armor back?

LIAM: Yeah, I got that armor back.

LAURA: Hey, can I have that armor? Can I have it?

LIAM: Sorry, sis.

LAURA: Please?

LIAM: Kima has it.

LAURA: No, she gave it back.

LIAM: No, she wore it.

LAURA: No, she gave it back.

MATT: She put the chain mail on, she gave you the
leather armor back.

LAURA: Give it, give it.

LIAM: Oh, that's between you and her. I'm not
taking armor off of her.

LAURA: Please, can I have that armor?

MATT: She's holding it in her hands. "Certainly."

LAURA: "Thanks." I go put it on. I don't know what
it is. It's magic though.

MATT: It's whatever armor you gave her.

LIAM: Wait, my armor?

LAURA: Yeah.

LIAM: That's my armor.

MATT: The armor that you gave for her to put on in
the Emberhold when she had nothing on.

LIAM: I gave it to him, he gave it to her. And
you're taking it? Hey, hey, hold on a second!

LAURA: Too late. Let's just keep moving, all
right? Let's just keep moving.

LIAM: I think we need to roll a brother sister
contest die.

LAURA: No, we should just--

LIAM: I grab her by the ear and say, "That's mine.
That's mine."

LAURA: Ow ow! Come on. I need it.

LIAM: Squeezing her earlobe really hard.

LAURA: Roll.

TRAVIS: Yeah, you two roll. Go for it.

LAURA: Shit. (yelling) Aha! It's mine, it's mine!

TRAVIS: (laughing) Sibling justice.

MATT: Persuasion versus persuasion? Is this what
this was?

LIAM: Yeah, sure, sure.

LAURA: Sure it was.

TALIESIN: They played arm punch until one caved.

TRAVIS: (laughing) It's mine, it's mine.

LIAM: It's not fair.

LAURA: Yeah, what does it do?

LIAM: I'm not fucking-- Figure it out.

LAURA: All right, I'll just add a bunch of stuff
to my stuff.

MATT: You keep talking over each other.

MARISHA: Are you just having party arguments right
now?

MATT: Apparently. As you guys head back into the
cavern, you move around the boulder that Grog had

moved from the side crevice. And as you continue
for about another 20 or 30 minutes, some of you

begin to pick up what sounds like the distant
lapping of waves against a shore.

MARISHA: What.

TALIESIN: That's never good.

MATT: (wave noises) As the tunnel begins to curve
larger and larger, eventually you come around a

bend and the tunnel opens up into a humongous
cavern housing an underground lake circling a

large island. From what you can see on the edges
of the walls that are closest to you as the island

disappears into darkness about a hundred feet
ahead of you, there are these blue crystals that

you've seen throughout this tunnel completely
covering the walls of this entire cavern. There is

only maybe bits of and places around the wall,
about five, ten feet across where there will be no

crystal. Otherwise it's just grey stone and blue
crystal jutting from the sides.

MARISHA: I go over to one of the crystal walls and
I put my hand on the crystal and I cast Daylight,

trying to see if I can emanate it up through the
dome.

MATT: Okay. You cast Daylight and on the actual
crystal source that you cast it on, daylight

emanates from it and gives a bright beacon of
light.

MARISHA: I want it to light up the crystal. Trying
to see how far I can get it to reach up to the

top.

MATT: Right. You notice that from the whatever
crystal vein structure some of these are connected

by, some of them tend to glow in spots, but you
see it's localized. All this crystal isn't

interconnected, is what this tells you.

MARISHA: Okay.

MATT: There are pockets here and there that are
interconnected, but there are multiple veins of it

going through the entire.

TALIESIN: What kind of liquid is this lake made
of?

MATT: So, as you approach, the hard stone surface
you guys have been walking on in the tunnel begins

to give way to like a coarse sand, almost like a
gravelly shore. And it appears to be fresh water.

It's clear. The smell is a little musty, but not
too bad. And you approach, and you can see there's

just these very gentle, very soft waves that
occasionally lap up on the shore, but only a few

inches. There's not a whole lot of motion to the
water within this cavern.

TALIESIN: Can we see to the bottom? Is it that
clear?

MATT: Yeah.

TALIESIN: I've got an idea. I'm going to find a
small rock-- Oh, go ahead.

MATT: I'll finish my description. (chuckles) So
there's this lake circling this large island

across the way. You also see on this side of the
shore, central, there is a large stone bridge that

arches over the lake and makes landfall about
roughly 200 feet on the other side, at the very,

very tip closest to you of this island. It's about
15 feet wide this bridge, maybe 20 feet, and is an

immediate walkway onto this island across.

You can see just faintly on the edge of this
island a glowing bioluminescent fungal forest that

covers a large portion of this island's top side.
The edges of it, you can see, rise up into cliffs

that have eroded over time and are rather stark in
places.

MARISHA: Plants! Look, living things!

TALIESIN: Clarota? Is this in any way dangerous?

MATT: Clarota, as you look over, is gliding into
the cavern. It's the closest thing you can imagine

seeing a mind flayer to smiling. He's looking
about and in response to you, a few moments later,

he says, "We're near home."

TALIESIN: Let's all remember his feet don't
actually touch the ground.

TRAVIS: Right. Do you know if there's anything in
the water?

MATT: He glances over to you. "There are many
things in the water. Fish. Crustaceans." He points

over, and you can see there is this small, very
pale, colorless, whitish-gray crab that's over to

the side, that looks weird, malformed. One claw is
twisted on itself and dragging behind it. And it

skitters off into the water. Everyone make a
perception check.

TALIESIN: Yay.

SAM: No!

LAURA: Oh, natural 20!

MATT: Oh snap.

ORION: 14.

MARISHA: 20.

TALIESIN: Eight.

TRAVIS: Six.

LIAM: One.

MATT: Oh, you two. As you all walk up to the edge
of the shore line and you're inspecting the water,

feeling for it. You look over and on the far left
side of the shore, you can see just below the

waterline what looks like... a sunken boat. Or
two.

LIAM: I can't see shit.

LAURA: What? There's a sunken boat in the lake.

TRAVIS: Really, should I go get it?

LAURA: Down here? Clarota, why? Why boats?

MATT: Clarota gives you a look. "I do not know.
Many things wander these tunnels beyond my kin. We

"are but one of its denizens."

LAURA: Who's a good swimmer?

TRAVIS: Me! I'm actually a really good swimmer.

MARISHA: Me.

LIAM: Lady Keyleth.

TALIESIN: She's a very good swimmer.

LAURA: You guys want to take a look?

MARISHA: I run over to the edge of the water and I
do a swan dive and as I swan dive, I turn into a

shark in the water.

MATT: Okay.

TRAVIS: I run to the water, as well, and I fucking
cannonball.

(all laugh)

MATT: So Keyleth's form jumps into the air, this
thin, lithe half elven figure that then turns into

this giant shark beast that (splash sound) into
the water underneath. A few moments later, Grog

jumps in. Big splashing sound.

ORION: I'm going to follow and I'll stay behind
enough to where I can cast? Do I

have to get in the water also?

MATT: You can. You still can't quite see what
everyone's going for, other than what she said.

ORION: Okay, I'll get a little-- I won't jump in
quite yet, but I'll get to the edge.

MATT: All right. The water is freezing cold. You
could swear this should've turned to ice by now.

Because your veins certainly feel like they have
upon impact. You immediately get over that as you

transform into a natural creature that's used to
cold water. Grog, it's fucking cold.

TRAVIS: One and a half inches? Me, too.

(all laugh)

ORION: That's a medical condition for a goliath.

MATT: There aren't usually this many penis jokes
in a session, folks. It just happens to be one of

those days. So, glancing down below, you see it
too. There are approximately two and a half boats

that are made of some sort of a combination of
wood and metal, like a heavily rusted iron. One of

them looks mildly serviceable, the other one is
broken with a large hole in the bottom of it.

MARISHA: I do a lap.

MATT: Okay.

MARISHA: Go check it out.

MATT: You look around. There doesn't appear to be
much else around, but you do catch what looks like

a semblance of a half-eaten corpse, a bone that is
left partially buried in the ground. You don't

know how long that's been there, either. It's
bleached bone at this point. Whatever fishes live

in this landscape have picked it clean.

MARISHA: So there's nothing in the boats at all?

MATT: Nope.

LAURA: Good times.

MARISHA: Weird.

SAM: Awesome.

ORION: We could just keep going.

LAURA: Maybe you come back.

TRAVIS: Ask him if the bridge is booby-trapped.

MATT: Make a perception check.

MARISHA: Make a perception check, (mumbles) yep,
yep.

LAURA: Are you still in the water?

TRAVIS: Yeah, I'm shivering.

MARISHA: 12. As a shark, right?

MATT: Yeah.

LIAM: Plus three for shark.

MATT: Okay. You do a couple laps. Nothing really
catches your eye.

TRAVIS: (gulps) I take a big breath and swim down
to where the giant shark is. Can I also perception

check?

MATT: You can also attempt a perception.

TRAVIS: This is like one out of every five games that I
get to. 12. Plus zero.

MATT: You found some boats, yo!

LAURA: Yay.

TRAVIS: Boats!

MATT: They are broken.

MARISHA: I go and I see that Grog's underwater and
I Flipper him and go up under him and, "Hold on!

"Here we go."

MATT: Giant shark comes up under you and nudges
you aggressively and lifts you towards the

surface.

LIAM: Dolphin hump him a little bit?

MARISHA: Well... You've heard of those-- never
mind. I'm just going to keep going.

MATT: You guys all watch as Grog is now riding a
shark.

LAURA: Awesome. Awesome.

TRAVIS: Should we ask Clarota if the bridge is
safe to travel?

LAURA: Clarota, is that mushroom forest, I mean,
is that your home?

SAM: Should we go there? Should we skip it,
Clarota?

MATT: "The forest certainly surrounds the city."

MARISHA: I carry Grog over to the island on the
other side.

MATT: "There are many places of entry within this
cavern." And you see Clarota concentrate for a

second, and within all of your minds, you suddenly
have a very clear image of this entire cavern: its

layout, what strange shape it is, where the
general overlook is, and as clear as day, you have

an entire visual of the inside of this cavern.

You guys reside down here, right by the bridge on
this edge of the beach. This green represents the

fungus and this, you imagine, represents the city.
The temple being central there.

LAURA: We should not take the bridge.

SAM: Yeah, that's a lot of fungus to get through
before the city. Are they still down there in the

water?

MATT: Yes, they are.

SAM: Let's wait until they get back before we
decide.

MATT: I'll put this down here in case you want
people to see that.

ORION: Where are we on that map?

MATT: You guys are right here.

LIAM: Grog, can you pull up any of those boats?

TRAVIS: Pull?

LIAM: Pull them up, Grog. Pull them up.

LAURA: I like it.

MARISHA: I go over and I swim Grog over. And can
I, as a shark, give some shark push from the

bottom?

MATT: Sure.

TRAVIS: Oh, fuck, yes, we have an underwater
breathing kit, that we bought at the store.

There's two of them.

MARISHA: Sick!

MATT: Potion?

SAM: I don't know, we bought one (laughs).

TRAVIS: I wrote, "two underwater breathing," and
didn't write what it was.

MATT: Two underwater breathing biscuits. Two
underwater breathing waffles.

TALIESIN: It was totally potions.

MARISHA: Potions.

MATT: I'm pretty sure it was potions. I'm pretty
sure they were potions.

ORION: What type of boat is this?

MATT: You haven't had a good look at it yet.

MARISHA: I tried to look, but I'm a shark, so I
don't know shit, really. It's a boat.

TRAVIS: Okay, so we swim up to the top and we come
back to the shore and you're just in the water

still. "Yes?"

SAM: What's down there? Do you need help?

TRAVIS: It looks like some kind of boat.

SAM: That's all you got?

TRAVIS: My perception is shit.

SAM: Well, should we try again with someone who
has better perception?

LAURA: You want me to go down there?

TRAVIS: Absolutely.

LAURA: All right. Let's do it.

LIAM: Ladies and gentlemen, we're going to pull up
one of those boats.

LAURA: Maybe we should check out the boats first.

MARISHA: You want to jump on my back?

LAURA: Yeah.

ORION: "Is that all we need to do? Okay, fine."
And I walk over to the thing and I jaunt off into

the water.

MATT: Tiberius slowly disappears beneath the
surface. It is cold!

ORION: "Oh, it's so cold." I take out one of my
bottles right before I go under. My bottle of

air.

SAM: What?

LAURA: His air bottle.

MATT: You see the bubbles break on the surface and
then eventually the bubbles stop. Tiberius may

have drowned; you don't know.

MARISHA: I can see him.

ORION: I swim over there. I use my tail. I think
I'm a good swimmer. And I want to swim up to where

I can see the boat.

MATT: Okay, this doesn't take you too far. It's
maybe 60 feet from the edge of the coastline.

ORION: Oh, okay. Is it darkened? Can I see the
boat now?

MATT: You can see, as long as you're traveling
with a Light spell going on, which I assume you do

at most points.

ORION: Yes. I still have my staff.

MATT: But yeah, you see there are two and a half
boats, essentially. They're large, looks like they

were meant specifically for travel. You're not
quite sure where it may have come from.

ORION: How large is it?

MATT: I'd say it's maybe about 15, almost 20 feet
from end to end.

ORION: Okay, so I notice it. You're nudging the
one that you want, right? Is that's what's going

on? So I notice that.

LIAM: Pull it up.

MARISHA: I try and push it.

ORION: I (ping) my Ioun Stone, direct Telekinesis
to lift up the boat out.

MATT: So you're putting your Ioun Stone on?

SAM: He gave the other one to me.

MATT: Oh, got you. Okay, so you put on the Ioun
Stone.

ORION: And I cast Telekinesis on the boat to lift
it up.

MATT: Okay.

MARISHA: And I try to swim underneath it.

MATT: Okay. There's a rustle in the waves on the
surface of the water, as you see all of a sudden

this (impact sound) this bowing and splashing
begins to occur. The ship begins to rise out of

the sediment on the bottom of the lake.

ORION: I try to get it just right on the lip.

MATT: It gets up. It's filled with water, you tip
it on its side and spill the rest of the water

out. There's still a large hole on the bottom of
the boat, on the inside. And you carry it over

back to the surface of the shore and rest it
gently onto the rock.

LAURA: Can you fit that boat in your Wheel of
Mending?

ORION: I'm underwater. I'm going to jaunt back up,
up to the surface.

LAURA: Tiberius, welcome to the surface. Can you
use your Wheel of Mending on that boat that you

just pulled up?

ORION: I put my bottle away. "I don't know. It's a
good question. I mean, I don't see why not."

SAM: Percy could assist. He's got some
engineering.

TALIESIN: Well, I can't help with the wheel, but I
could repair the boat, in theory.

ORION: Percy, why don't you give it a whack before
we put a boat on the Mending Wheel.

TALIESIN: I'm going to make a list of things that
I'm going to need. I may have to send them down

for more parts of boats from the other boats.

LAURA: Try the wheel first.

MATT: Telekinesis is still in effect currently, so
if you wanted to do that, now would be the time.

TALIESIN: Bring up the broken boat.

ORION: Oh, yes, here you are.

MATT: Okay, so Tiberius comes back with the half
boat, essentially, that's cracked in half and part

of it is ruined and broken. But there's still a
sizeable amount of oxidized iron, metal, and wood

here that you think would be serviceable for
repairs.

TALIESIN: Please don't roll a one. Okay, so I'm
going to do a little tinkering to see if I can get

this fixed.

MATT: Okay.

TALIESIN: Unless you want to try the wheel first?

MATT: It's up to you guys. So you're going to go
ahead and make a tinkering check?

TALIESIN: I'll do a tinkering check first and then
try the wheel.

ORION: Why don't you tinker it first.

MATT: Anyone want to help?

TALIESIN: What do I use as my modifier?

MATT: I would say this is a key point in time for
a Scanlan song.

SAM: Oh! Yes, of course.

MATT: You use this bardic inspiration specifically
for stuff like this.

SAM: Oh, I do. Yes, I will inspire you. I don't
know what to sing. What's a boat song?

MARISHA: (singing) The love boat...

SAM: How does it start?

TALIESIN: I'm not feeling very inspired.

SAM: (singing hesitantly) Something exciting's
waiting for you?

(all laugh)

SAM: (singing) I'm on a boat, motherfucker! I'm on
a motherfucking boat. (speaking) That's all I

got.

TALIESIN: I feel inspired.

MATT: I'll give you a d6 for that.

(all laugh)

LIAM: (singing) Sailing...

SAM: (singing) Takes me away to where I've always
heard it go.

TALIESIN: That's worth a d10.

MATT: If it wasn't Vax singing.

TALIESIN: Okay.

MATT: Go for it.

TALIESIN: All right. What do I add to the
modifier, by the way?

MATT: You add whatever your tinkering bonus is,
which should be your dex.

TALIESIN: My dex modifier, thanks. Thank god. 13.

MATT: 13 total?

TALIESIN: Yeah, 13 total.

MATT: Okay. You take a while with it. It takes a
little bit longer than you anticipated, but you

have your general tools with you. You hammer away.
About an hour and a half to two hours later,

you're sweating, your muscles are sore, but you
feel like you've managed to get the hole for the

most part patched. Now it's just to test its
buoyancy.

SAM: You want to try the Mending Wheel?

ORION: My spell doesn't last that long.

TALIESIN: Let's put it in the water and see what
happens.

TRAVIS: I start pushing the boat back in the water
and I jump in and I start jumping up and down.

MATT: You push it in. You leap in the boat. It
(impact sound) gives to the 600 pounds that are

Grog. It splashes a bit, it lifts, it seems to be
holding. It's leaving ripples in the water.

LAURA: Will it fit all of us, you think?

MARISHA: I'm going to stay a shark and follow in
the water.

SAM: Let's pile in the boat.

MARISHA: Can I tow them?

TALIESIN: I was about to say, we can make a
harness out of rope.

MARISHA: Yeah.

TALIESIN: We'll be less conspicuous.

MARISHA: Yeah. Not as much rowing.

TALIESIN: Shark power is far less conspicuous.

ORION: I saunter on the boat up next to Grog and
go, "Excuse me." As I open the bag of holding and

take out the magic carpet (sound of carpet
unfurling), and I hop on that.

LAURA: I get on the magic carpet.

ORION: I'd rather be a free agent on this one. I'm
not here to fight on water.

TALIESIN: I'm setting up a gun mount on the boat,
just in case.

MARISHA: Do you guys want to get out the rope and
put it around me?

TALIESIN: We'll get out the rope and throw a loop
for you to grab.

MARISHA: I swim through the loop.

LAURA: Trinket, get in the boat.

SAM: I just want to know which way we're sailing.
Are we going left?

LIAM: Clarota put the image all in our heads.

TALIESIN: See, there's an island over on that
side.

SAM: This way, or do we want to go this way?

LIAM: Vox Machina, there is an island, there are
also two small caves and--

LAURA: There's three small caves.

LIAM: Where?

LAURA: Well, two small caves and then a path.

LIAM: Two and then rivers and paths out, yes.

MARISHA: Do we want to check them all out? Clear
out the fog of war.

LIAM: We could go straight for the big prize.

ORION: Are we all agreeing that, have we all
decided to come here or here?

LAURA: Toward the island, I think.

MARISHA: I think if we can go here to this little
island, I might be able to do some think-y, spy-y

scrying stuff before we storm the city.

LIAM: What do you mean, Keyleth?

TRAVIS: Loot the cave first, and then the island.

LAURA: Cave first?

MARISHA: Cave first.

TRAVIS: Right, cave first.

LAURA: And then island. Let's go there.

LIAM: When we eventually want to take the temple
and kill this son of a bitch, we probably want the

shortest amount of distance on land as possible,
which means coming in from the north end where

Tiberius is pointing.

ORION: Coming in through here, which is the least
resistance.

LIAM: Yes. I agree.

ORION: Directly to the temple.

LIAM: But I think we're all a little slap happy
and curious.

LAURA: That might be cliffs on the back end,
though, you guys. We won't be able to scale

those.

MATT: Best you can tell, from the image that was
given to you, any of those sections along the edge

that have the jagged lines are cliffs.

LIAM: But the north-western edge has a beach?

MATT: Correct.

LIAM: But, we're curious about the island?

SAM: Let's just set sail.

LAURA: Set sail. Towards the island!

LIAM: So, Vox Machina, are we going to head around
the southern, south-eastern edge?

TALIESIN: Yes.

LAURA: We're going, we're sailing.

LIAM: Does anyone know how to steer this thing?

MARISHA: I'm towing us.

TALIESIN: We're shark-powered.

LIAM: Oh, towing.

LAURA: I'm on the carpet with you.

ORION: Yes!

LIAM: That is impressive.

MATT: All right. So, you guys continue down the
right side of the path. You push off into the

water, being towed by Keyleth in shark form.

TALIESIN: Aw, yeah.

LAURA: Should we put Pass Without a Trace on us?

SAM: She's a shark.

TALIESIN: We're pretty stealthy.

MARISHA: I'll hug the far wall, though. I'll hug
the wall.

MATT: You hug the far edge of the water. Pushing
across, you find a way around and as you begin to

look up the wall, you can see once again how these
crystalline structures are spread out across this

entire wall, going up. You can't even see the
ceiling of the cavern, it's so high up from your

current perspective. It just disappears into
darkness.

You continue following the path until eventually
you come to this choke point here, where the land

mass begins to-- you can see where the beach
begins to crest down and touch the water.

As you slowly and quietly make your way around the
bend, you look over and you can see the forest.

Indeed, they appear to be trees, but now that you
have a better view of it, you know, maybe about

400, 500 feet off from you right now, that
bioluminescent glow, this very faint glow is given

off by all the plant life, all these giant fungal
trees. The roots have these strange, organic,

almost like they're gripping the ground. The
canopies of them blossom in these strange, almost

mushroom-like appendages, these fungal bursts that
stick off the top and form the tree-like canopy.

And you can see vines hanging from each of these.
It's a very strange, alien forest. Fauna that even

you're not familiar with in your travels. But it
does give off this dull color, this faint light

source that does tend to give a general visual
view of the landscape on this island.

You do see, just barely beyond this point, looking
across, the tops of a few buildings in the very,

very distance. The color of the stone, from what
you can make out, has almost a jade mixed with a

grey marble. And you can just faintly make off in
the distance one large pyramid-like structure that

comes to a flattened precipice on top.

LIAM: This is on the island?

MATT: On the island, to your left. And there is a
very, very faint greenish glow at the very top

that matches the coloration of that same glow you
saw in the eyes of Queen Ulara earlier and the

rest of the denizens that were in her party.

As you quietly begin to push along, you come to
the point where there's the beach to your right

and there's the island to the left. The island,
which comes to this incline and then drops off on

a cliff on the far side. It has its own
encapsulated fungal forest. You can see what looks

like a very, very faint bit of ruins on the
beachfront that has mostly crumbled and fallen.

But for the most part it appears to be fairly
empty, other than the fungal growth itself.

To the right there is another pebble beach, same
consistency as the beach you first arrived on.

LIAM: What's the scale. Are we talking Manhattan
and Brooklyn? Or smaller than that?

MATT: To put to scale, your boat that you found is
about that big.

LAURA: Oh, okay. So it's pretty big, then.

MATT: It's pretty big.

LAURA: Okay. Should we land on the beach and then
check out that little cave?

TRAVIS: Yeah.

TALIESIN: Yes, I think that's an excellent idea.

LIAM: We're all very curious.

LAURA: All right.

SAM: I'm not curious.

LAURA: As we're flying overhead, can I get a
better look at if there's anything on the beach?

MATT: Yeah, as you guys come gliding down, you
look at the beach. You see the ruins, you see,

even though there is no real breeze or wind in
this cold air, there is like a slight swaying.

LIAM: On the beach?

MATT: To the trees that reside on this.

LAURA: What about the little island-- the little
cave.

MATT: On here?

LAURA: Yeah.

MATT: Best you can see, looking down, it's just a
plain, pebble beach, an inlet there that goes into

the cavern interior of the wall.

TRAVIS: Let's get all up in that bad boy.

SAM: Go in the cave?

TRAVIS: There's treasure.

LAURA: Treasure! Pirates! Arr!

SAM: I already have a ruby. I'm fine.

MARISHA: I'll stay with the boat. As a shark.

LAURA: Do we fly in, Tiberius? And just go...

ORION: Absolutely.

LAURA: All right. Stealth and fly in. Can we do
that? Is that possible? To stealth and fly at the

same time?

MATT: You can certainly try to keep quiet while
doing so. The cave that actually opens up in the

side of the wall within this cavern is about 20
feet up and about 25 feet across. So you're flying

as low as you can, but you're still only about
maybe 15 feet off the ground. Ten to 15 feet. Are

the rest of you going in?

LIAM: Well, we're in the boat. But Grog and I want
to go. Right?

TRAVIS: Nope.

LIAM: No?

SAM: I'll come.

TRAVIS: I'm thinking it'll be a quick trip.

LIAM: Is the boat coming up to the beach?

TRAVIS: Yep.

LIAM: Yes. All right. I scoop up Scanlan and go
piggyback style, like he's my son, and jump on the

beach.

TALIESIN: I'll wait here.

MATT: All right. Everyone who's entering the
cavern, go ahead and make a stealth check.

MARISHA: Ooh! Pretty flashy.

SAM: Natural 20.

TRAVIS: Oh, Jesus.

ORION: 13.

TALIESIN: I'm in the boat.

MATT: In the boat?

LAURA: 13.

TRAVIS: Six.

LIAM: 27.

MATT: All right.

ORION: Oh, we are on the carpet.

MATT: As you guys not-so-stealthily begin to march
into the tunnel here, you follow it as it bends

around a little bit and it eventually opens up
into this larger space. And as you enter the room,

partway through this tunnel, the scent changes
dramatically. That cold, still water smell begins

to give way to this terrible, sulfurous, rotting
smell. Very-- it's near septic.

And as you enter this room, the smell is dreadful,
and you can tell, using your light source over

here, there appears to have been some sort of a
struggle. There are bedrolls and sheets strewn

about and soiled and burned and torn across the
floor. There's about what looks like three or four

different bedspreads that have been tossed and
ruined. You can see a semblance of what was a fire

pit, but all the soot and ash has been smeared
across the ground to the outside of it. There

appears to be a half buried chest or container off
in the far corner. And you can see what looks to

be four dead bodies, in a not too long state of
decay. You can still see flesh and skin, but

there's some bone peeking through, and they're all
slumped against the ground, against the corners.

SAM: Vax, why don't you go mess with them?

LIAM: I'm going to use perception on the chest and
the bodies.

MATT: Okay.

LIAM: That is not that good. That is 13.

ORION: I'm going to use my earring of
whisper right now. "There's some fun things in

"here. Grog, you're not wearing it. Someone tell
Grog he might need to kill something."

LAURA: This looks a little dangerous.

TALIESIN: All right.

TRAVIS: We're killing something?

LAURA: Be ready to run.

TRAVIS: I come running in.

LIAM: I'm back from the chest. I take out one
dagger and throw it at the chest to sink it into

the lid. From a ways back.

MATT: You take the dagger and (sound of dagger
embedding into wood) into the wood. Doesn't seem

to have any immediate effect.

LIAM: Okay, so I did a 13 perception check, I
guess on the chest, so I'll go to try and open it.

MATT: Okay.

LAURA: Oh god.

TRAVIS: Has anybody run to the back of the cave
yet?

SAM: Are we all in the cave?

LAURA: We're on the carpet.

LIAM: You're on my back, Scanlan.

MATT: Grog and Percy are still in the boat, at
this point.

TALIESIN: But we're listening in.

MARISHA: Grog's running in.

TRAVIS: I come running in.

MATT: Well, you're in the process of stepping out
of the boat at this point. As you begin to

approach the chest, you notice one of the bodies
shift. (moans) Its head rolls around and it looks

at you.

LIAM: Pike?

MATT: Pike is still back in the boat with Percy.
"What?" She doesn't have one of the earpieces.

LIAM: Someone call Pike?

LAURA: Percy, undead!

TALIESIN: All right, we're on our way. Pike, come
on.

MATT: All right. As you guys get out of the boat
and begin rushing in that direction, you notice

the one body looking over at you with this weird
grin. You've had a few encounters with zombies or

undead creatures that unnaturally move. This one
has an intelligence to it that disturbs you. You

glance over at the other bodies, who are already
getting to their feet.

ORION: Where are the bodies located?

MATT: We will get to that at the top of our next
session.

(all groan)

LAURA: Oh no!

LIAM: Oh, nuts!

TRAVIS: No killing.

LAURA: We're pirates! (growls)

MARISHA: I'm a shark, still.

MATT: Yep.

LIAM: Come back, Ashley!

LAURA: Help us, Ashley!

TALIESIN: Grog, you could throw a shark at
something.

MARISHA: Can you?

TALIESIN: You can toss a shark at a zombie.

LIAM: You could use the shark like a baseball
bat.

TALIESIN: You could battering-ram a zombie with
the shark and just go.

ORION: Sharks don't die as soon as they get out of
the water. You can last a couple minutes out of

the water if you're a fish.

TALIESIN: They have sandpaper skin.

MATT: So! (laughs) So we will pick up next week
with the next episode of Critical Role, in which

the party will deal with this sudden surrounding
of some strange, partially-decomposed corpses.

LIAM: It's the undead!

MATT: Indeed, the overlord has come!

ZAC: Hey, guys!

(all yay, cheer)

ORION: What's up, Zac?

ZAC: Good job tonight, everybody. So, I just want
to do one more shout-out to those t-shirts. Scroll

down, buy some shirts. We have two weeks to sell
1,000 of them. This, to be totally honest, is to

prove to the powers that be that Twitch is a
viable resource for income (laughing weakly),

woo!

ORION: And good entertainment, good
entertainment.

ZAC: Great entertainment.

LIAM: We all know this is going to grow, so we're
just getting ahead of the game.

ORION: Much like Scanlan's penis.

LAURA: Enough with the dick jokes.

MATT: About that.

ZAC: So, do you guys want to read all these
messages?

MATT: Yes, I'd love to!

ZAC: So, we had quite a few donations tonight.

LIAM: Yes!

LAURA: We did?

ZAC: We did.

MARISHA: Yes and, we broke PayPal.

MATT: I can charge through these real fast.

ZAC: I might let you, yeah. Phew!

MATT: I can do that. All right, starting here with
Vorath. "Another donation this week to this

"amazing cause. You guys are hours of entertainment
every time. Also Orion, Tiberius ordering donuts

"is not poppycock." (laughs) Thank you so much.

All right, we have Nadoprime. "I just discovered
this show a week ago I'm now a subscriber?" Aw.

"And I'm pledging to give five dollars every week
that I watch." Well, thank you so much, Nadoprime!

It's great.

We've got Lipoolflinger. "This is awesome. High
fives all around. Please keep going." We shall!

This isn't ending any time soon.

Unwriteable, gave us a $70 donation. Thank you,
Unwriteable. That's amazing.

Panobo! "Hi from Mexico, gran juego, viva el D&D."
There we go. I've been talking all night, sorry.

Thank you so much.

G1BigDaddyHef. "My weekly donation for a fantastic
charity. Always look forward to Critical Role

"stream Thursdays. T-shirt reserved. Can't wait."
You guys are awesome.

Huric. "Hi, there. Not sure if anyone will get in
trouble if you read this out loud, but this is

"what the shirt I put on redbubble made so far. I
made a promise that what I make from the shirt

"goes to the charity. Love what y'all do." Oh, it's
Matt Abernathy! Thank you so much! Great designs,

too. Keep them coming. We're hoping to do some
stuff with fan designs in the near future, so

we'll let you guys know.

EasyShadow. "Hey guys, started watching two weeks
ago, and I'm hooked! Got my paycheck, so I went

"ahead and subbed, bought the shirt, and am now
donating. Keep it up, guys. Thanks. Oh, and

"#SaveGrog." Thank you, EasyShadow. That's awesome

MARISHA: Save Grog!

MATT: Oh, MauhiduL, who I met on the Minecraft
server the other day, which was amazing! If you

guys haven't been on the Geek & Sundry Minecraft
server. They've actually recreated physically,

sequences from our campaign, like battlegrounds,
and it's like walking through--

MARISHA: It's like a walkthrough! Yeah, actually,
if you want a good, creative summary thus far, you

can walk through this.

MATT: I got emotional walking through it

MARISHA: I know. I got all teary-eyed!

TALIESIN: The pictures you were sending were
amazing.

LAURA: Yeah. They were texting all of us the
pictures.

ZAC: The sculpture of myself makes me pretty
emotional, too.

(all laugh)

MATT: Yeah, that's awesome! It says, "Love the
show, love you guys, love Geek & Sundry, proud to

"be a part of something so amazing." Thank you,
MalheadL.

LIAM: Have fun with the new Manhattan-sized
island. Minecraft.

MATT: Maxine196404. "I love to read and I can't
imagine my life without it, so I want to help you

"out." Aw. You guys are great. Thank you, Maxine!

Claybmpt. "My vote last week nearly contributed to
Trinket's demise, and I feel a little donation was

only proper to make amends."

(all laugh)

TRAVIS: Smart.

MATT: Good on you. Kitten112. "Never experienced
D&D until now and I love it more than I ever imagined

"I would. Thank you for sharing your fun with us."
Oh, thank you for watching!

WeeklyFactoids. "Travis, what are the dimensions
on your weapons and armor? I was wondering if I

"could cosplay as Grog for my local con in
September."

(excited cheers)

LAURA: Grog!

TRAVIS: Yes.

MATT: Find Travis on Twitter, @WillingBlam, and
ask him those questions that we haven't answered.

TRAVIS: Yeah, do that.

LIAM: Get those clippers out, though. (bzzz)

LAURA: Yeah, you're going to be Grog, you've got
to be bald.

MATT: Critical Role cosplay?! That's so meta, I
can't even--

TRAVIS: That would be amazing.

MATT: Ah, and we'll have such a photoshoot with
you guys. All right. AlmostHuman. "Such love for

"Critical Role. #826LA #saveGrog #geekandsundry
#RIPScanlanbeard."

(all laugh)

MATT: New hashtag. #RIPScanlanbeard.

LIAM: I know it's off-putting, but Scanlan's beard
is right over here.

(all laugh)

MATT: Malaytw. "Thanks for Critical Role. Less
than three." Aw. Thank you.

Anttank01. "Critical Role's amazing. Love what you
guys are all doing. It has renewed my inspiration

"for role-playing character development, and it's
for a great cause, so I'm more than happy to help.

"Keep up the great work." Aw, thank you anttank01.

ElmoServant. Oh, no. "Just found out about the
show last Thursday and marathoned every episode on

"Friday. Critical Role is the best show on Geek &
Sundry by far, though TableTop's pretty great,

"too." Thank you, ElmoServant!

TALIESIN: We agree.

MATT: Alwiergen. I'm sorry if I butchered that.

SAM: No, that's the right pronunciation.

LIAM: Scandinavian.

MATT: I'll take it. "Love Critical Role and
ordered my shirt. Sam and Liam, when's the next

"All Work No Play (nudge nudge, wink wink)."

LIAM: Sam, that's on you.

SAM: It's happening soon, and we're just going to
be talking about Critical Role.

(all laugh)

MATT: LastCall2113. "Love the show, and an awesome
campaign. Way better than most shows on TV right

"now." Aw. Thank you. All right, next page.
(laughs)

SAM: There's only 20 more pages.

MATT: Lobster024. "Thanks to the entire group for
sharing your adventure with us. I hope to be as

"good a DM as Matt in a thousand years." Oh, you'll
(pfft)-- at least 400.

(all laugh)

LIAM: Second place is good.

MATT: It's-- no. Just keep working on it. Just
learn your material and improv. It's so much fun.

LAURA: And then get a cyborg brain, because that's
what he has.

MATT: (laughs) ElectricIdolon. "I had the honor of
hitting the 2,700 sub mark tonight." That's

awesome! "So why not go all the way tonight with a
donation, as well? Also, holy mess, Mercer. You're

"a beast." Thank you.

LAURA: He's a beast.

MATT: TheWroth. "Family favorites: Kid, Grog. Dad,
Tiberius. Mom, Vax-- no, wait, Scanlan. Thank you

"for sharing your talents with us." Aw, thank you.

TRAVIS: The kid is very smart.

MATT: LifeIsRosie.

ZAC: RealLifeRosie.

MATT: There we go. I read for a living. "I cannot
express how watching the shenanigans of you lot of

"lovable miscreants brightens my worst days. I'm so
happy to contribute to both the further adventures

"of Vox Machina and 826LA, for future lovable
miscreants and their own adventures. Less than

"three." Thank you. They're so sweet.

CheeseBug88. "Ale! And whiskey. Smiley face."

Gayaka. "Thanks so much for sharing this wonderful
adventure with us and re-inspiring my love of RPG

"storytelling." Aw. Thank you.

Striker67. Yeah, Striker. Police brutality, coming
up. "So I just want to say thank you for

"everything you're doing. For gamers everywhere.
Loving my first edition Critical Role t-shirt and

"will be getting the new one, too." Aw. "Keep
sharing your adventures with all of us. Thank you,

"Vox Machina." Thank you, Striker.

MARISHA: Just wanted to say we have more. We've
had new ones come in. New ones.

MATT: WeeklyFactoids. "Also, hopefully I can make
Travis a great axe and Sam a sword after I finish

"Liam and Laura's gifts, if you would like."

TRAVIS: Wait, what?

SAM: Say that again?

ZAC: By the way, there's something really, really
cool on its way here for you. Like, really cool.

MATT: What did you do? What did you guys do? They
want to make your axe and your sword now.

SAM: They want to make my Singing Dawnblade?

LAURA: Travis has been looking online. He wants
his own axe.

TRAVIS: I found one.

TALIESIN: He was handling a couple at renfaire. It
was kind of scary.

TRAVIS: Handling or courting?

(all laugh)

MATT: There is a definitive difference. Ah.
Murkro2, thank you so much. Kargoth912, "Thanks

"for satisfying my D&D addiction while my DM is on
vacation. You all rock." We aim to please.

Jean2343, "Thanks for the great show. It takes me
back to my old gaming group." Aw. Thank you so

much, Jean.

We have 82517. "Watching you guys play D&D is
amazing and has inspired me to get back into

"playing Warhammer 40k with my friends." Awesome.
"Thank you for that, because I'd forgotten how

"much fun I had doing that."

ORION: You should check out Warmachine.

MARISHA: Agreed.

MATT: Their Iron Kingdoms RPG is really good, too.
All good stuff. Norrisseria. There we go.

Noraseria. "I love Critical Role. It's my favorite
thing I look forward to all week. You guys are all

"amazing, thanks for all you do." Aw, thank you.

TheCrazyNixie. "Love the CritRole team, oh and
pets Keyleth the shark."

Genevels, "Great job Critical Role tonight, thanks
for bringing back the t-shirts for round two. You

"guys have encouraged me to start my own D&D
group." Awesome! "I now #encourageboatriding"

LIAM: We want all of you guys to go find these
books, find other people in your town or online,

and play.

MATT: And send pictures of your group to us. We'd
love to see you guys play; it's great.

ORION: Tag us, tag Wizards of the Coast, say
what's up.

MARISHA: Yes, tell Wizards of the Coast. Tell them
we sent you.

ZAC: Yes, tag Wizards of the Coast, please.

MATT: If anyone from Wizards is watching, you guys
are awesome.

All right. Macowcut. Micoughcut, "Was supposed to
work out, randomly found you tonight. First-timer

"and newly subbed." Awesome! Well, welcome to the
fun.

Meganandgrits. I have to say it that way because I
grew up in the South. "Wanted to donate more for

"such stellarific people, but taxes murdered me.
Sorry, y'all, but I look forward to being part of

"your voiceover endeavors, hopefully in the
future." Awesome, much love. Keep at it, indeed.

PsychoticFrogger, "Bow to the overlord, your
friendly neighborhood overlord.

"#1.5squareinches."

Greeneyedtrobotonist. "Are you guys aware 300
shirts are already sold today?" Wow, awesome.

MARISHA: Wait, how many?

MATT: 300. "Keep staying awesome, people." That's
great! That's such good news.

ZAC: I want 500 by tomorrow morning. That's all
I'm saying.

MARISHA: I think we can do it.

SAM: The night is young.

MATT: We can do it.

ZAC: The night is young. We're going to do a
rebroadcast.

LIAM: What was our goal for subscribers for the
night, too?

ZAC: Lucas, what was the final number on subs?

LUCAS: 2,730.

ORION: Nice!

ZAC: We're 20 away from another TableTop giveaway,
which we'll probably hit tomorrow.

LIAM: And they're staying around for our
questions.

LAURA: No, we're not doing that tonight.

ZAC: It's next week. If we get 1,000 by next week,
we'll do a Q&A.

LAURA: Okay, 1000 shirts sold.

ZAC: Are you saying you want to dance, is that
what you're--

LIAM: No. No.

ZAC: Just kidding.

MATT: We can do a pretty late Q&A too. We'll
figure it out. Make it worth everyone's while,

too.

ZAC: Thank you guys for watching tonight for our
Thursday programming. We're going to run a

rebroadcast.

LAURA: Matt will do a sexy dance if we sell 1,000
shirts.

ZAC: Lucas, just for Travis, do you mind playing
that Overlord song to usher us out of the night?

This is for you, Travis.

LUCAS: I can't find it. One second.

ZAC: Oh, he's got to find it.

MARISHA: I can't find our Overlord song.

TRAVIS: What is this?

MATT: Oh, and also, for all you guys in the
Philadelphia area.

MARISHA: Oh, yes.

MATT: Me and Marisha, our fair Keyleth, are going
to be at Wizard World Philly this weekend, Friday,

Saturday, and Sunday.

SAM: Not just this weekend. In six hours.

MATT: Our flight leaves in like two and a half
hours.

LAURA: Oh man, you've got to hurry to get to the
airport.

MATT: Yeah, well it leaves at 1:15, we'll be
fine.

LAURA: Okay.

MATT: But yeah. But yeah, so if you guys are over
in that area, you can come see us at Wizard World

this weekend, we'll have panels and signings and
general stuff.

TALIESIN: Or if you're at LAX at 1:15, you can
meet them.

MATT: Also possible! But guys, seriously, thank
you all so very very much. You're all amazing.

Hope you enjoyed it. Next time we'll kick off with
a pretty intense goal, looks like.

ORION: I would like to say, everybody who tweets
at us and all that stuff, we love it and appreciate it.

It makes me smile everyday too, so thank you
guys.

LAURA: Thank you for all your support.

MARISHA: It's good. I love you guys.

MATT: Do we have the song?

(Overlord song plays.)

SAM: What is that?

LIAM: Song for Grog.

ZAC: No, it's a song for me.

MARISHA: They made this for you?

LAURA: Did you erase the Overlord drawing?

MATT: Someone made a song?

TRAVIS: This is metal.

MARISHA: They made you a song.

LIAM: We would like to rage.

MATT: Oh, look at the chatroom, overlord spam.
That's so great.

TRAVIS: Amazing.

LIAM: It's like the Hulk is attacking the chat.

TRAVIS: Overlord overlord.

MATT: That's great. It's on infinite repeat.

LAURA: That's amazing.

MATT: Whoever made that, well done.

ZAC: That's Alex. He's our sound dude.

MATT: That's great.

ZAC: He did all the sound effects on your intro
video.

MATT: Oh, eagle cries. Absolutely necessary, well
done. Guys, thanks again, we'll see you again next

week, most definitely. All the love.