MATT: Hello and good evening, everyone. Welcome to
tonight's episode of Critical Role, where a bunch

of us voice-actors get together and play Dungeons
and Dragons-- crazy, fun, nerdy times.

So we are unfortunately missing Travis Willingham
again this evening, because he's a pussy and had

to go see Avengers tonight, so feel free to let
him know on Twitter. But anyway, we have a really

fun, action-packed adventure-- as if last week's
wasn't tension enough. Let's see how the rest of

the group manages to recover from their climactic
battle at the top of Emberhold.

But in the meantime, let's go ahead and give you
an intro and some of the character backgrounds

before we come back.

[dramatic music]

ASHLEY: Pike grew up on the outskirts of town,
near the Bramblewood. Her ancestors were a family

of deep gnomes with quite an unfavorable
reputation. Thievery, destruction, and trickery

left them with the curse of the last name
Trickfoot. Sarenrae, the goddess of healing and

redemption, had other plans for Pike's
great-great-grandfather Wilhand, who left his

family at a young age after a dream: a dream that
changed the course of the Trickfoot family.

Wilhand devoted his life to Sarenrae and pledged
from then on that him and his family would live a

life of service and devotion.

As a child, Pike seemed to have an affinity to
heal. Whether it was animals, people, or even

flowers, she felt she had a purpose in making
things whole that had once been broken. She

studied and learned the ways to heal though divine
magic.

She lived a peaceful life, quiet and simple, until
one day, Wilhand was captured and almost killed by

a group of goliath barbarians. One of the goliaths
took a stand against the murder of the innocent

gnome and he himself was beaten, bloodied, and
left for dead, abandoned by his herd. Wilhand went

to Pike for help. She prayed and healed this
barbarian as best she could,

bringing him back to life.

When he awoke, she discovered his name was Grog
Strongjaw. After that, they were best of friends,

a rather unlikely pair. Little did she know that
in a few years' time, Grog would soon return the

favor and bring her back from the clutches of
death. (roar, crunch)

After being killed in battle, Pike felt angry. She
wanted to be stronger so that it would never

happen again. She spent four months at sea
training with the men and women aboard a ship

called the Broken Howl.

Gripping her holy symbol in one hand, and her
morningstar in the other, this time,

Pike is ready.

TRAVIS: Right, Listen up! If you have ale, then
you have a friend in Grog Strongjaw. A goliath of

towering height and size, this barbarian has an
appetite for the two great loves in his life:

combat, women, and ale! (chuckle)

(record scratch) Wait.

Easily the brains of the group, Grog is often
consulted for his vast knowledge of shapes,

colors, and (chuckle) shiny things!

Also ale.

In his early years, armed with his two-handed
great axe, Grog often enjoyed proving his might

amongst the ranks of his family's wandering herd.
But after coming upon an unsuspecting elderly

gnome in the woods, he objected to the killing of
such an innocent life. A creature of impulse, Grog

felt only pity for this-- well, this terrified
little thing.

And his disobedience cost him dearly.

Beaten bloody and banished by the herd leader, his
uncle Kevdak, Grog was abandoned and left to die,

exiled from his herd. It was then that the
relative of the very gnome he fought to save,

saved him. It was the kindness of a gnome cleric
named Pike that healed Grog, bringing him back

from death's edge. And they have remained close
friends ever since.

Most nights, Grog can be found challenging entire
taverns to wrestling matches! Ha! Or accompanying

Scanlan to the nearest house where you pay for
lady favors.

Also ale!

MARISHA: A first impression of Keyleth would leave
you with little information on the half-elven

druid. You might even think that her social
awkwardness due to her sheltered upbringing is

kind of sweet. (chuckle)

Of course, it would be unwise to underestimate her
based on first impressions. (thunder) Under that

unintimidating petite frame is a vicious beast
waiting to be unleashed, whose natural powers have

made even the fiercest of champions pee their
pants, literally! (soft chuckle)

Born to the Air Tribe of the Ashari people,
Keyleth was raised with a deep love of nature and

the elemental magics. It is her people's inherent
duty to protect the delicate areas in Tal'Dorei

where the four elemental planes begin to bleed
with this realm.

Since she was a little girl, she had quite a knack
for air manipulation and beast shaping abilities.

Well, if you consider kittens and flying squirrels
to be little beasts. Which, I do. (clears throat)

Anyways, it wasn't long before the headmaster of
the tribe, her father, Korren, realized her true

prodigious abilities and she was inveterated to
succeed him as the next headmaster.

Just like that, her jovial childhood was stripped
and replaced with endless spell memorization,

teachings from ancient traditions, and exceedingly
high expectations. Every druid leader to be must

embark on a journey to seek out the sister tribes in
order to introduce and establish respect amongst

the fellow headmasters. They call this the
Aramente, or Noble Odyssey. When her father felt

she was ready, he set her on the path to truly
discovering herself, not knowing when, or if, she

will ever return.

As she hiked down the mountain towards Stillben,
she meditated on the task ahead. Part of the

Aramente is proving yourself a strong warrior, a
valiant protector, and a wise and compassionate

leader. With this knowledge, one thought plays on
repeat in her mind: Is she even worthy?

TALIESIN: Percy was the third of seven children,
born to a noble family who lived far to the north

in the ancient castle of Whitestone. With so many
siblings to share the burdens of lordship, Percy

turned his attentions to the sciences,
engineering, and naturalism.

One day, a mysterious couple named Lord and Lady
Briarwood came to court. During a feast held in

their honor, the Briarwoods violently took control
of the castle, killing or imprisoning everyone who

would stand in their way.

Percy awoke chained in the dungeon, only to be
freed by his younger sister. Together they fled,

chased by the Briarwoods' men. As they ran,
Percy's sister took several arrows to the chest

and fell. Percy kept running, eventually jumping
into a freezing river and floating unconscious to

freedom. He did not remember waking up on a
fishing boat. He barely remembered the next two

years, as he slowly made his way as far south as
possible.

Then one night, Percy had a dream. A roaring cloud
of smoke offered him vengeance against those who

destroyed his family. When he awoke, Percy began
to design his first gun. (gunshot)

SAM: Oh, you haven't heard of Scanlan Shorthalt?
Well, gird your loins, ladies, because he has his

eye on you.

A talented musician, master of disguise, and
dashingly handsome in his own mind, Scanlan sings

songs almost as much as he sings his own praises.

Born a poor gnome, Scanlan used his endless charm
and soaring tenor voice to croon for coin and

support his single mother. One day he was
discovered by a half-orc promoter, and joined Dr.

Dranzel's Spectacular Traveling Troupe, where he
learned the ways of the world, and honed his

skills as a bard extraordinaire.

A loner much of his life, Scanlan has never quite
come to terms with the violent death of his mother

at the hands of a goblin invasion. While his years
on the road provided many, shall we say,

educational experiences with the opposite sex,
deep down, Scanlan yearns for the one thing he's

never known: the true love of a fellow gnome.

Still, Scanlan considers himself a lover first,
performer second, and fighter distant third. On

the battlefield, he'll support his allies, but
rarely draws blood, unless it's to protect fellow

gnome, Pike.

Count on Scanlan for a hearty laugh, a rollicking
song, and a twinkle in his eye that melts hearts

and makes the females swoon.

ORION: Greetings and salutations. I am Tiberius
Stormwind. I hail from a town called Ty'rex,

located in the heart of Draconia.

From a politically respected family, at the age of
15, I succeeded in passing the Sorcerer's Rite,

showing prodigy-like control of my magic. The
judges and the Draconian high council were amazed

at how powerful my spells were for how long I had
been training. At 20 years old, I was the youngest

appointed member of the magic guild in Draconian
history. For the next few years, I almost went mad

from the malaise of being a guild member, as it's
rather boring.

However, one day I happened upon a chamber, unused
for quite some time. In the room were stacks of

books and maps of the surrounding cities and areas
around the known world. For months, I would

frequent the chamber, and learned of artifacts
from legend.

After a long period of research, I made a list of
artifacts that caught my eye. I brought these

findings to the high council and was told that all
of the information in the chamber I had stumbled

upon was either believed to be fiction, or
unsolvable mysteries, and hence were lost forever.

I found those answers to be unacceptable.

A year later, I devised a ruse and managed to
convince the city council to lend support in me

leaving Draconia on a mission of peace and
diplomacy for the surrounding kingdoms, going from

town to town and making friends and allies, in and
for the name of Draconia. Being a red dragonborn,

I had quite the task on my hands in that respect,
but it was exactly what I needed so I could

explore the world and find these artifacts, as I
felt the truth was out there.

Some may describe me as buffoonish, but I say
poppycock to all that. I am much sharper than most

give me credit for. I just don't pay attention to
things sometimes. I've also been known to be

rather cunning, loyal, happy-go-lucky, and well,
dangerous. I can't help but show my true scales

every now and then. But overall, I think I'm quite
friendly for a dragonborn!

LIAM: Never entirely welcome in the company of
elves or men, Vax'ildan learned at a young age to

skip past formality, preferring instead to invite
himself in your door.

Along with twin sister Vex'ahlia, Vax was born by
a chance encounter between elven royalty and human

peasantry. Raised by their mother in their early
years, the twins were eventually sent off to their

father in the elven capital of Syngorn. But their
cool reception among the elves there never warmed,

and their time in the capital didn't last. The
siblings stole away one autumn night and set out

on the open road.

After a few years of wandering, they eventually
decided to return to their mother, and journeyed

back to the lands of their youth. But instead of
finding their childhood home, they returned to a

pile of rubble. Their mother was gone, their home
burned to ash. Pressing the townspeople for

answers, they learned of the day the dragon came.
(roar) With their ties all severed, Vax'ildan and

his sister set out to find their fortune together
in Tal'Dorei.

An outsider since birth, Vax quickly learned to
solve life's challenges in his own particular way,

often by side-stepping them entirely. And when his
knack for circumventing adversity isn't enough,

(knife scraping) the way of blades the elves
schooled him in more than makes up the

difference.

LAURA: Like so many half-elves, Vex'ahlia has
spent most of her life suffering the cool

reception of a people who don't fully accept her.
Born of a human mother and an elven father who

only later in life took an interest in their
existence, Vex'ahlia and her twin brother

Vax'ildan quickly realized the only people they
could truly rely on

in this world were each other.

It was at the age of ten when the two were taken
from their mother and brought to live in Syngorn,

the isolated elven city for which their father was
an ambassador. He quietly took them in, but always

kept an icy distance, and after too many years of
disdainful looks, the pair decided to leave his

indifference behind, and set out on their own.

Vax took to the cities, stealing small trinkets
and learning the ways of the thief, while Vex kept

to the woods; she preferred the isolation.

Always the keen observer, she learned to hunt and
to track, to spy and to shoot. And through a

series of fateful events, earned herself a
companion in the form of a bear-- her own stolen

Trinket-- to fight alongside her and protect her
fiercely.

Also, he is adorable, and gives expert massages.

MATT: Hey guys, welcome back. While we are missing
Travis, it's totally fine, Avengers is a fantastic

film. It's a wonderful film and hope he doesn't
spoil anything for us in his return, but he is

missed. Travis, we miss you. We'll have you back
next week, hopefully.

ORION: I'm going to spoil the movie for everybody:
they win!

TALIESIN AND LAURA: But do they?

MATT: I don't know. It's Joss Whedon (laughs)

ORION: I didn't say who 'they' were.

MATT: Oh, that's true. All right, so, welcome
everyone. For those of you who's this the first

time, (laughs) buckle up for some interesting-- So
we're a bunch of voice actors who play Dungeons &

Dragons and this is our campaign we've been
running for a while. To give you a little heads-up

on the story so far, the party was hired to find
an individual named Lady Kima, and she is a

halfling paladin. The platinum dragon Bahamut
is her deity

SAM: And we found her!

MATT: You did. I was going to get to that.

(all laugh)

MATT: So they went seeking her in caverns beneath
the dwarven city of Kraghammer. After much

fighting and surviving, they manage to find their
way to a duergar fortress called Emberhold, where

they found Lady Kima captive beneath.

They released her and then, using her help,
assaulted the throne room at the top and managed

to slay King Murghol of the duergar. However, in
the process, Grog, our intrepid barbarian, was

kidnapped by the queen mage before she could be
slain, who then also disintegrated a portion of

the roof, letting an entire cavalcade of molten
rock into the fortress.

The party then had to make a heated escape.
However, a number of the party members, due to the

gaze of the two basilisks that were kept in the
throne room as pets, Lady Kima and our Tiberius

Stormwind, our dragonborn sorcerer, are currently
stone. Dragging them out of the fortress as the

magma began to fill the interior, a very deft
escape was made, aside from Vax unfortunately

getting his foot temporarily submerged in the
lava, taking some serious damage to his foot.

The party manage to make their way outside of the
Emberhold proper, and you've all taken a moment to

breathe at this point, realizing that thankfully,
for the most part, you've all survived. Aside from

the missing party member and a few in a state of
flux at the moment.

So, picking up there where we left off. You're all
breathing heavily. The sincerity of the battle has

just come over you. The adrenaline's still pumping
through your system.

LAURA: Your foot is melted off.

LIAM: It's kind of there (groans).

MATT: Mostly. There's some... You can see four of
the five toes.

LAURA: Oh, that's not bad. It's four out of five.

MATT: About three and a half.

LIAM: Did I lose the big or the small?

MATT: (laughs) This would be the small.

ASHLEY: Oh, you can do without the pinkie.

MARISHA: Your balance is probably a little wonky.

MATT: Yeah, a little bit.

LIAM: Clears that athlete's foot, though. Gone.

MATT: Sure enough.

SAM: Is anyone following us? Can we do a quick
check around and just see?

MATT: Make a perception check.

SAM: Perception check? Starting it off with a 19.

MATT: Glancing around, you start hearing various
duergar screams from above as the individuals that

were still inside the fortress are in the process
of trying to get out, or in the process of slowly

melting in the molten rock. What you do also
notice is that off towards the bottom base of the

stronghold, a number of duergar that reside in the
buildings that surround the exterior of Emberhold

proper are mounting arms and charging up towards
the stronghold to give aid to wherever this

seeming, loud shouting and screaming is coming
from

LAURA: Can they see us?

MARISHA: Does anyone seem to be paying attention
to us?

MATT: No, they're far enough away where you don't
think it's an issue, and you're off to the side,

for the moment. But you do see probably close to
30 to 40 duergar are currently swarming out the

small city, making their way towards Emberhold.

MARISHA: So right now they're focused on the chaos
of the temple?

MATT: From what you can see.

SAM: We should get out of here.

LAURA: There was a path further down that led
further on into the tunnels. I think we should

follow that.

MARISHA: Well, hang on. Grog can't be far, right?

SAM: He could be in another dimension.

MARISHA: No, he can only be a thousand feet away.

SAM: Says who?

MARISHA: They used the spell Dimension Door that
Tiberius has.

LAURA: So we hope he used Dimension Door.

SAM: I have a spell that can go to another
dimension (chuckles).

MARISHA: Well, I remember the gods on high telling
us last week that

we recognized the spell that was used.

SAM: By the way, this is the best conversation
we've ever had with Tiberius.

(all laugh)

LAURA: Oh, Tiberius.

MARISHA: Aw man, I feel that comes back to bite us
in the ass later (nervous laugh) because he is

still conscious, right?

MATT: No.

LAURA: He has no idea what's happening.

MATT: He's in darkness. He can't hear. He's not
conscious.

SAM: If Grog is close, we still need to get out of
the way of these 30 people. So let's go hide.

LAURA: We still need to hide. And heal.

TALIESIN: Let's at least follow the path, find a
place where we can hide, and recuperate.

LAURA: Around the corner or something. Can we
stealth further down?

MATT: You can try to. You currently are carrying
two large solid stone statues with you, so it's

definitely possible, but you're going to have to
come up with a creative way of doing so.

TALIESIN: Grog had the rug, didn't he?

MATT: Grog had the entire bag of holding.

TALIESIN: Shit!

MARISHA: I'm going to go ahead and cast Pass
Without a Trace on the party.

MATT: Okay.

LIAM: Percy, I think you and I are on Tiberius
duty.

TALIESIN: Yes. (sighs) Okay.

SAM: If we do not move, will this 30 duergar mass
hit us at some point?

MATT: You can find out.

SAM: Oh, Jesus (laughs)

ORION: It's like asking the future.

LAURA: Can I use my robe of infinite twine, which
I have on my person in another game before.

Because it's connected to my rope. Can I use that
and tie it around Kima and hook it to Trinket so

he can drag Kima along?

MATT: You can.

LAURA: Okay.

TALIESIN: Very clever.

MATT: So I will say for this circumstance as you
guys are preparing this: casting the spell,

beginning dragging the stone. The group make an
initiative check.

SAM: We took too much time!

LAURA: We should just run.

TALIESIN: Natural 20.

MATT: Yeah, you have some flashing, there we go.

MARISHA: That's been a kind die to you.

MATT: So, 20 plus whatever your initiative
modifier is.

TALIESIN: 27.

MATT: 27.

MARISHA: 13.

ORION: Who cares.

SAM: Ten.

ASHLEY: 12.

LAURA: 17.

LIAM: 15.

MATT: All right.

SAM: Distract them. Get them away from us.

MATT: You guys begin to drag the stone, or
(chuckles) your two stone companions across the

jagged obsidian floor in this deep, dark cavern.
The heat from the nearby lava fall is still

causing you to sweat profusely, and you're sore
from the previous battle you just endured. Those

of you who are wounded, you can feel the stretch
of the muscles and tearing of what sinew has taken

damage in the process.

As you begin to pull, parallel to this duct of
lava that pours off the side of Emberhold, you

keep low so that you aren't actually blocking the
light source, which would be a very keen visual to

anything that's looking in that direction from a
distance, but you slowly make your way across. At

this point, the duergar have not been able to get
there before you guys move off from the side, so

they haven't caught up to the position you were
previously, but they're beginning to swarm around

the sides, and you see them yelling at each other
and shouting commands. Some of them are starting

to grab large rocks and fill in areas of the
stronghold. Some of them you can see are robed

individuals begin casting spells. You can see
portions of other stone walls beginning to mount

up and try and block the flow from the interior
and exterior of Emberhold.

However, you guys are still within eyesight,
technically, of any duergar on that side of the

fortress, so I'm going to ask everyone now to make
a stealth check. Those that are pulling the

statues with disadvantage.

LAURA: So that's Trinket.

ORION: Plus ten.

LAURA: But we all add plus ten?

MATT: Correct. To the final roll.

LAURA: Okay.

LIAM: I have a question. If I have advantage for
other reasons-- I have a cloak of elvenkind which

gives me advantage-- does the advantage and
disadvantage cancel out into one?

MATT: They do. Your foot being wounded, though, is
a disadvantage right now.

LIAM: Right.

MATT: So that then goes back down to
disadvantage.

SAM: Can't win with this guy.

MATT: Just for this circumstance, unfortunately.
You're dragging a statue with a partially melted

foot right now.

TALIESIN: Liam, it doesn't matter.

MARISHA: You still have plus ten to the roll
because Pass Without a Trace.

MATT: So?

SAM: 14.

MATT: Plus the ten?

SAM: That's including the ten.

MATT: All right.

MARISHA: 22.

TALIESIN: 11.

ASHLEY: 20. That's my low roll.

LAURA: That's 20 for Trinket and 29 for me.

LIAM: 25.

MATT: All right, so you keep hunched low, slowly
(stone grinding noise) dragging these stone

obelisks of individuals across the jagged floor.
You seemingly do so without any of the duergars'

eyes catching you through the low light of the
cavern. Partially due to the fact that you guys

are doing a pretty decent job and partially the
fact they're more obsessed that the central piece

of their fortress right now is essentially about
to be completely filled with molten rock.

About 20, 25 minutes or so, you manage to pull
just past where the lava flow dips down into what

looks like a small opening in the flooring, and
you are past the immediate heat of the magma

river. You are now pressed up against the wall of
the cavern as it begins to twist around and head

downward, further deeper into this subterranean
mountainous space. You're all beaten, you're all

sore, and currently, what do you want to do?

TALIESIN: Keyleth, can you cover the entrance to
where we are to give us a

little bit more of a stealthy--

MARISHA: No.

LAURA: No more spells?

MARISHA: I am exhausted. I can't do anything else
right now.

LIAM: And what's the terrain? Is it just flat out
out in the open to see, or is it scoured with ins

and outs? Peaks and valleys?

MATT: It's the same type of topography you've
encountered when you first entered this giant

cavern. So you can see large, crooked black spires
of obsidian rock shooting up and curving towards

the ceiling. It's all over the place.

MARISHA: I can make another Hallucinatory Terrain.
I can do that still.

LAURA: Okay, maybe you can make it--

MARISHA: Can I make it to where it just looks like
a wall?

MATT: How long does it last?

MARISHA: I think Hallucinatory Terrain lasts an
hour, if I think about it. Books, books, where's

my book?

LAURA: Can I look around and and see if there's
anywhere that looks like we could hide, tuck in

between rocks or something where we wouldn't be
visible?

TALIESIN: Please.

MATT: Go ahead and make a perception.

LAURA: Oh wait, I get an advantage.

MATT: Because you are in the Underdark, correct.

LAURA: 20.

MARISHA: It lasts for 24 hours.

SAM: 24 hours!

TALIESIN: Put a lava flow in front of us.

SAM: But you have to be concentrating the whole
time. And you can't. You can't go to sleep.

LAURA: 20.

MATT: As she's glancing at that, you make your way
about ten minutes away from the area where the

rest of the group is currently gathered, keeping a
very very close eye on the topography of the wall

of the cavern as it slowly curves around and
further in that direction. You do manage to find

portions of the wall that jut out and leave these
small pockets. They themselves might not be super

safe for a long period of time, but they give you
a little bit of--

LAURA: Cover.

MATT: Little bit of cover, depending on how well
you were to dress. You might be able to see few

individuals discovering you if you were to stay
there.

LAURA: Okay. Let's do that.

MARISHA: It's not a concentration spell. It just
takes a minute to cast and it lasts for 24 hours.

So I'm going to go ahead and cast it and make it
look like there's just a wall with another lava

flow that's come out, and is starting to happen.

MATT: Okay, so as you walk back to notify the
party, you watch as a portion of the mountain

seemingly out of nowhere, extends, and a lava flow
appears, pouring out of the wall.

MARISHA: Wait, was someone not inside?

SAM: No, we're all in.

MATT: She was out and about while you did this.

LAURA: I was searching for another place to hide.

LIAM: It's fine. It's an illusion. Vax pokes his
head through the illusionary lava and goes,

We're in here.

LAURA: Oh! Lovely.

MATT: So your heart rate eventually normalizes.
You do have a decent pocket of space here that as

long as nothing attempts to walk into the wall,
you should be okay to rest here.

TALIESIN: So we have some time. Let's regroup.

LAURA: I think we should probably--

TALIESIN: Sleep in shifts.

MARISHA: Wait, here's what I'm afraid of. If we
sleep we could lose Grog's trail. He could be

nearby right now.

TALIESIN: We're not much use to anyone right now.

SAM: Let's just make a decision right now to leave
Grog and continue on.

ASHLEY: No!

SAM: Let's just forget about him. He was a good
friend.

LAURA: What?!

SAM: We'll have a toast to him.

LAURA and ASHLEY: Scanlan!

SAM: We'll sing about songs of his memory.

MARISHA: You are shitting with us, right?!

SAM: Within a few days we'll forget he ever
existed.

TALIESIN: Scanlan, no one else wants to go to a
whorehouse with you. You'll be going to

whorehouses alone.

SAM: All right, fine.

TALIESIN: Thank you.

LIAM: Here's another option. My foot hurts, but
I'm not too bad. How are you?

LAURA: (sighs) I'm okay.

LIAM: We could go look.

LAURA: Or maybe I can use my tracking and see if I
can catch a scent. Grog does smell.

MARISHA: I can use my beast sense; that is one
more thing I can still do. I could theoretically--

We could use Trinket.

LIAM: We need to undo the stone that has taken
over Tiberius and Kima.

TALIESIN: Do I have the necessary tools to
synthesize a potion out of the basilisk blood?

MATT: You can certainly try. It's a very
ramshackle set-up. You do not have an alchemical

set, but you can certainly attempt to, using a
small fire, a couple of your general smelting

tools you use for your metal work. You could
attempt to distill it down, but that would be a

combination of a tinkering roll on your point,
followed up by somebody else's medicine roll to

attempt to properly prepare it.

LAURA: Are all of Tiberius's things stone with
him?

MATT: Yes.

ASHLEY: I'm going to walk over to Tiberius and
cast Greater Restoration on him.

MATT: Okay. So as you're having this discussion.
Tiberius, you briefly go from this moment in the

heat of combat where you feel your muscles
intensify and tensing up and not answering to your

mind's command as you look up angrily at a series
of duergar that have just been blown up by a

fireball, to cold taking yourself. And as the cold
fades, you are now in the center of a gargantuan

cavern surrounded by all of your friends. You guys
watch as Tiberius's form

fades in through the stone.

MARISHA and ASHLEY: Tiberius!

LAURA: Good job Pike!

SAM: I was so worried about you!

TALIESIN: Or we could cast a spell. That also
works well.

ORION: (Dwarven accent) What the hell is going
on?

ASHLEY: I didn't know if that was going to work.

MARISHA: But that the only time you can do that,
right?

LAURA: Wait, she can't do that again? You can't do
it again for Kima.

ASHLEY: I have another 5th level now, so I could
do it again.

LAURA: And once we rest, you'll have it
again?

ORION: (Dwarven accent) Whoa. What happened to all
the other little dwarves?

SAM: You don't have to do the accent anymore.

LAURA: You probably should keep your voice down,
Tiberius.

ORION: Well, this is just how I sound.

ASHLEY: No. We already got through. We're on the
other side.

You don't have to act like a god anymore.

LAURA: Grog is missing, actually.

ORION: (Dwarven accent) Oh, great.

LAURA: And the queen took him.

SAM: Are you stuck like this?

ORION: No, I could change back anytime I want, but
I really like how I look.

(all laugh)

ASHLEY: Are we going to rest?

SAM: Wait, but what about Kima?

MARISHA: We have to find Grog!

LAURA: We have to find Grog but we have no spells.
If we do find him, we can't do anything!

SAM: Can you unstone Kima now or?

ASHLEY: I can, but then I wouldn't have another
5th level.

ORION: (Dwarven accent) Clarota, what do you think
we should do?

MATT: Clarota, who is currently like staring at
the statue of Kima, you can see there's a brief

bead of thought behind Clarota's eyes and the
voice sinks into the rest of your minds

simultaneously. "We may be able to leave her here
for safekeeping."

ORION: I knew you were going to say that. A
different option. Oh, and thank you, Pike.

ASHLEY: You're welcome, Tiberius.

(all laugh)

MATT: "If you insist on bringing her, then we
should do it soon. We should not be leaving

"anything behind. Trace of our passage."

LIAM: Where did your kin take our big friend?

MATT: Clarota thinks for a second and says, "It
was not my kin that took him but the duergar. If

"anything, I imagine he might be residing within
that infernal city, though if they've taken him

"elsewhere I do not know the way of the
ash-skins."

ORION: But Kima does.

LAURA: We should wake her up.

ORION: Pike, you can do it one more time and take
a little rest, right?

ASHLEY: I am going to walk on over to Kima. Touch
her. Cast Greater Restoration again.

MATT: Okay.

LAURA: Where do you touch her? (laughs)

ASHLEY: I touch her arm.

MATT: Okay.

TALIESIN: Don't cheapen this.

MATT: Classy. As you reach out, the divine energy
emanates from Pike's hand that begins to cascade

across Kima's form. Kima, who is in mid battle,
with her greatsword in the air, as soon as her

flesh returns to her, she finishes her swing.

ASHLEY: I put my shield up!

MATT: However, it does (ping) into the side of
your shield and you deflect the blow and you see

Kima for a second is like, (panting slowing to
normal breathing).

LIAM: Easy! Easy!

ASHLEY: Calm down!

MATT: She throws the blade down on the ground and
goes, "I am so sorry."

ASHLEY: It's okay! You were mid-swing, I get it.
We are fine it was just a shield. We're fine.

MATT: She reaches around and she pulls her symbol
of Bahamut out from her around her neck and just

clutches it for a second and says, "What
happened?"

LAURA: You were turned to stone, the king got
killed, the queen took Grog, we don't know where.

SAM: And Clarota was really helpful to us.

LAURA: Actually, Clarota got you out of that
castle alive.

MATT: She turns around and glares at Clarota
briefly with a look of confusion and mistrust and

Clarota just goes--

(all laugh)

LIAM: You honestly would not be here if it
weren't for the illithid. It's true.

MATT: She glances back at you and gives under her
breath, "And there's a good chance none of us may

"be here if it gets its way down the road. (louder)
Nevertheless, I thank you. It is good to know at

"least we took one of their top champions down. The
fact that the queen still exists is worrisome, as

"at least from what I seemed to gather she had the
true reign over most of the duergar down here."

ORION: Do you know where she would be at?

MATT: "Where did she escape? How did she take
him?"

LIAM: She disappeared with our goliath friend.

LAURA: (gasps) Oh my gosh. Wait, did I Hunter's
Mark the queen?

LIAM: Yes, you did.

LAURA: Did I?

TALIESIN: You did.

LAURA: I can use my Hunter's Mark to track her!

SAM: You can?

(all cheer)

SAM: How long does it last and how does it work?

LIAM: But that was just 30 minutes ago.

SAM: I know, but we all have to rest.

LAURA: It maintains for up to eight hours!

SAM: Eight hours, but we have to rest!

ASHLEY: Because we need to heal. I am pretty low.

SAM: I'm at two.

ASHLEY: You're at two?!

MARISHA: Okay. Theory? Proposition? Proposal. What
if we use your Hunter's Mark, figure out where she

is, get there, camp out nearby, tackle it in the
morning?

LAURA: Can I use my Hunter's Mark to find out
where she is and then we rest and go there?

MATT: You can attempt that.

ASHLEY: What if we took a short rest?

LAURA: Wait, wait, wait. Let's just find out where
she is first.

ASHLEY: What if we just took a seven-hour nap?

(all laugh)

ASHLEY: Because that's all really anyone sleeps
anyway.

TALIESIN: I think six hours is about what it
takes.

MATT: Six to eight hours is the general long rest
period that I would allow for that.

LAURA and ASHLEY: Okay.

LIAM: I think we should all rest for a moment. I
think Vex'ahlia and I should go out for an hour or

two, just to see which direction-- I mean, they
are not going to back to Emon.

LAURA: I've got Hunter's Mark! Just stay put,
Footless!

(all laugh)

ORION: Wait a minute. What happened to your toe?

SAM: You're not stealth anymore. You got a busted
foot. You're at disadvantage on everything.

LIAM: I was pretty awesome 30 minutes ago. Now I'm
just slightly less awesome.

SAM: Can we at least heal you up, before you go?

LAURA: Yes. Just give us one second. Can I use the
freaking Hunter's Mark?

SAM: How does it work?

LAURA: I don't know!

MATT: So you take a moment, you step beyond the
boundary of the illusion momentarily, close your

eyes and concentrate on that small blip of nature
based divine energy that you lent and grappled

onto Queen Ulara with. You take a moment and
concentrate and you recall her face, you recall,

strangely, her scent. In a weird way, the bestial
nature of your connection with Trinket and nature,

scent is a very strong means of tracking and the
scent of a duergar is a very terrible mix between

salty brine and earth.

LIAM: Like Axe for Men?

MATT: Essentially, yeah, yeah. It's Ye Olde Axe.
You concentrate on this and you recall the

stronghold, you begin to see a trace where all of
a sudden her path in the stronghold is fading and is

cold. A new path has opened up in the center of
the duergar city at the base of the stronghold. It

seems to have moved slightly in that direction,
but you can't pinpoint where, and is currently at

rest somewhere in that vicinity.

SAM: She is still close.

LAURA: (whispers) The city, they're close.
(louder) So that is right in front of the keep?

MARISHA: Wait. Are they in an underground base?

LAURA: They are in the city.

MATT: Essentially, where the cavern kind of rises up
and meets the wall, Emberhold is at the top of

that rising of the ground, and Emberhold lies
there, where all the lava pours down and trickles

down. You guys are off to the side. This whole
portion of the floor that crawls up to Emberhold

is covered in duergar buildings. It is a small
city that surrounds it. She resides somewhere in

the center of that.

MARISHA: So we're on the same level as them or are
they above us?

MATT: They are a little bit above. You guys are at
a lower point, as the actual ground you follow

curves around and descends.

SAM: But once we walk out of here we will be at
the same level.

MARISHA: I have a theory. I've a new skill that
I've recently learned and was practicing a lot

when I was with the Earth Ashari while we were
gone for the past six months. They taught me the

ways of the earth elementals.

ORION: Oh, that's fun.

MARISHA: So. And as an earth-- but I am still new
at it.

ASHLEY: That's okay, we all start somewhere.

MARISHA: Thank you, Pike.

ASHLEY: You're welcome.

MARISHA: Thank you. I mean I am a little
self-conscious about it still, but I can travel

through the earth.

LAURA: And pop up, perhaps, where she is?

ORION: (Dwarven accent) Ooh, like a little
gopher.

LAURA: All of us? Or just you?

MARISHA: It is not a burrowing thing, right?

MATT: You glide through the earth.

LIAM: More like a Shadowcat kind of thing?

MATT: Essentially.

LAURA: Is it all of us or just you?

MARISHA: Just me. But I could get inside.

LAURA: Well, but then you will be alone,
surrounded by duergar and Grog.

MARISHA: Well, I am not talking about right now.

ASHLEY: Could we put invisibility on her?

MARISHA: If we do some sort of flanking thing.

LIAM: Well that does sound useful.

TALIESIN: It is. It is going to be useful.

MARISHA: I am wondering if we can make a tunnel,
though. I can theoretically-- okay, theoretically

we could rest and I could keep all of my spells
and use all of my magical focus to tunnel us out,

depending on how far we are going. We can do an
underground approach

LIAM: But concretely, right now we need nappies.

MARISHA: Yeah.

TALIESIN: Let's sleep.

MARISHA: But what if they leave while we sleep?

LIAM: But we are essentially powerless.

TALIESIN: And what are we going to do if we find
them?

LAURA: I'm going to only sleep for a little bit,
cause I didn't use all my spells I only need to

rest for half the amount of time, maybe.

MATT: It doesn't work that way.

(all laugh)

MATT: A solid six hours you'd probably be able to,
since you guys are in a hidden area you'll feel

more comfortable, depending on how you set your
bedding here you could

probably do it in six hours.

LAURA: I think we'll be fine. Because she needs to
rest as well. We hurt her pretty badly.

LIAM: I think it is safe to assume she's brought
Grog back to her seat of power. Why would she go

anywhere else? She's at her strongest where she
is.

TALIESIN: I think they're staying.

SAM: We're going to rest.

LIAM: Sleep.

MARISHA: Okay. All right.

LAURA: We've got to sleep, Keyleth.

ASHLEY: I know. You're right. I see what you're
saying, but we need to...

SAM: Grog will be fine.

ASHLEY: He's at a two!

MARISHA: I'm so mad at him. Why'd he get stolen?

MATT: Kima comes over, Kima puts her hand out a
little bit and says, "It's all right, he's a

"strong one, he can handle himself. If I could
survive what I've been through, he can do far

"better than that. Rest is good. I think we need to
take some time, discuss our plan of attack, our

"current direction, and decide on how we'll move
forward." She glances briefly over at Clarota,

who's now further back towards the wall just
sitting in this meditative state.

"So. Let us rest."

TALIESIN: Brilliant idea.

LIAM: One last thing before we lay our heads down
for the night. Pike, do you have any salve or

anything you could help me put on my foot, or
could your god help with my little toe?

MARISHA: I could help you with some natural
mediciney stuff, maybe.

LIAM: It stings a bit.

MATT: You have not encountered a person with any
sort of physical marring to this degree,

necessarily, and those that usually did, it was a
permanent thing. So this is something that you

would have to experiment with.

ASHLEY: Could I try healing? A very concentrated
energy just on his foot? A healing spell?

MATT: You could certainly try.

LAURA: You can do it, Pike.

MARISHA: Is there anyway I could assist her?

MATT: Possibly. All right.

ASHLEY: Let's try it.

MARISHA: Possibly?

LIAM: I mean a clockwork foot from Percy does
sound cool.

ASHLEY: If we're going to rest, it doesn't hurt to
try.

MARISHA: That way we can sleep on it.

ASHLEY: You can sleep on it.

LIAM: Literally.

LAURA: Maybe this yellow vial of potion could do
something for it as well.

LIAM: That's Ben-gay.

ASHLEY: I'll try Cure Wounds at, I'll try 4th
level, since we're going to sleep.

MATT: All right so go ahead and roll the
corresponding dice for that.

ASHLEY: So I roll...

MATT: 4d8 + 5 Is what it would be.

LAURA: Why do you keep putting your foot up near
me?

(all laugh)

LAURA: Can I keep an ear out for anything
approaching?

MATT: Very much so.

ASHLEY: Wait, plus my spell caster--

MATT: Plus your modifier, which is five.

MARISHA: I start building a positive chi. Like a
healing chi ball.

SAM: Is she doing a standard healing here? Is my
song of rest going to help at all?

MATT: Your song of rest would actually be of aid
to this.

SAM: Okay. So I'm going to sing while you heal, if
that's all right.

ASHLEY: Please do.

MATT: All the healers convene, Scanlan begins--

MARISHA: I light some sage.

SAM: Okay, ready? (singing) Wherever you go,
whatever damage they've done, we will be right

here waiting to heal you. No matter what hit
points you take or how your foot breaks, we will

be right here--

SAM AND ASHLEY: Waiting for you.

LIAM: All that improv school paid off.

(all laugh)

MATT: As you take the healing energy you've
gathered from your own nature-based casting, you

infuse the healing spell. You do how many points
of healing from the spell?

ASHLEY: 27.

MATT: 27. Go ahead and make a medicine check.

MARISHA: Is this what I can maybe assist her with?

LAURA: It looks really disgusting by the way. It's
so gross.

ASHLEY: What do I roll? Do I roll the 20?

MATT: Roll a d20, and add your proficiency
modifier

LIAM: Can I apply my Luck feat to her?

LAURA: You don't have any feet left.

(all laugh)

SAM: Feet pun!

ASHLEY: 21.

MATT: 21. As you finish the spell, you can see
where the mostly-gone second small toe has grown

to mostly a full toe, and there's a small stub
where the little one is.

LAURA: You've got a toe nubbin.

ASHLEY: Hey man, we got a little stub. A little
bit.

MATT: You're promoting a level of divine
regeneration at a very, very slow pace. You've

never attempted this before, and there is some
progress, but this may be an over time thing you

have to do.

ASHLEY: Over time, I just keep doing it?

MATT: Once a day, you might want to attempt this
and eventually he probably will recover. But not

immediately.

SAM: Until then, he's a gimp.

LIAM: I think I see Pike's deity in my toenail!

(all laugh)

ASHLEY: It's gonna take time. That was just a
little manicure that we did real quick.

MARISHA: We could just own it and call you--

TALIESIN: Little piggy?

MARISHA: Well I was going to say Vax the
Nine-Toe.

LIAM: And put a knife on it?

TALIESIN: Could put a very tiny knife on it.

LAURA: A teeny tiny little knife.

TALIESIN: Could actually give you a nail clipper.
You could clip your own nails.

MARISHA: We can get you a prosthetic little toe
that has a little compartment for poison.

LIAM: I would take a brass claw.

MARISHA: Or a brass claw toe. That's fun. Maybe we
could get you a raptor claw. That's cool.

TALIESIN: Let's sleep.

SAM: Before we go to sleep, I go over to Kima and
I say to her, Lady Kima, I think we're all going

to take a rest and you as well, correct?

MATT: "I think I should."

SAM: We can trust you while we're all asleep not
to do anything to any of our companions, correct?

MATT: "If you're worried about the mind flayer,
I'll be keeping an eye, but nothing beyond that.

"Remember: he has to make the side-step, the wrong
step, before I take any action. Trust and know

"that if I were to strike a blow, it's at his own
poor choice and actions."

ORION: That first part of what you said rhymed.

SAM: Does she seem to be telling the truth?

MATT: Make an insight check.

SAM: A what? What check?

MATT: Insight.

SAM: Insight. Okay, 18.

MATT: She seems to be true.

SAM: Okay.

MATT: She is legitimately concerned about Clarota.
But also understands that at this moment, it has

not done anything to necessarily draw her blade.

LIAM: Lady Kima, Clarota, may I suggest you take
the first watch?

SAM: (laughs) Oh my god, what if they start
fucking?

(all laugh)

TALIESIN: So it's going to be that sort of
evening, excellent.

LIAM: Rated M, for mature.

MATT: Clarota says, "Should you insist." And
Clarota's image shimmers and vanishes.

ORION: Sweet.

TALIESIN: I'm falling asleep.

MATT: As you guys are all going to sleep, Kima's
still sharpening her sword and she stops for a

second and goes, "Everyone, I'm sorry you've lost
your friend. If he lives, we shall find him."

LAURA: He will live.

TALIESIN: And we will find him.

ASHLEY: No, he will, Scanlan! You just calm down.

MATT: "But if they have indeed taken him prisoner
and Emberhold is lost, there is only one place

"they would bring him: Yug'Voril."

LAURA: (gasps) With the dude with the black horn.

MATT: "Considering the mess that you've made since
entering their realm of living and work, you'd

"make for a great gift to their current standing
demigod. If we aren't able to find him within the

"city, I think that may be the next place to
look."

MARISHA: Once again, are you afraid they're going
to take him while we're asleep? Is this a genuine

concern? Is this something we should move on now?

MATT: "Not as long as you're keeping
concentration, we should be fine."

LAURA: I'm concentrating so hard.

(all laugh)

LIAM: We're busted up.

TALIESIN: There's legitimately nothing to be
done.

MATT: There's a softness that hits Kima's face and
you can see a bit of a quiver to her chin and she

goes, "The guilt I feel for unknowingly putting
you all in danger for my sake is immense. It's

"because of me and my actions that you even delved
this far and nearly lost life and limb, merely at

"the behest of Allura and... I want you all to know
that I appreciate it. I really, truly do."

ORION: That's great. If you can mention that to
Allura, that'd be wonderful.

MATT: "I would really appreciate it to speak to
Tiberius."

ORION: (mumbles, makes spell sounds, returns to
normal voice) I would really appreciate it if you

mentioned that to Allura. I'm trying to get into
her good graces and whatnot.

MATT: She chuckles a moment and says, "All right.
Allura is a good friend. Well we've known each

"other for... gods, 15 years now. Since we defeated
the Scourged Rider, together. But she has always

"had more of a political mind than I do, so, when
we were both offered a seat on the council of

"Tal'Dorei and Emon she stayed, and I... I'm a woman
of action, and I

"knew my destiny was out in the world."

ORION: We share something in common, Lady Kima. I,
too, have left my home and land because I did not

want to sit on the council of Draconia. With
blessings from my father and such, I gained

ambassadorship on a mission for them, but really,
just so I could--

MATT: Her eyes have glazed over and are staring
off into the distance.

(all laugh)

ORION: To get all the things out, and I saw this
wonderful lamb in this field one time--

MATT: "I was speak to Allura of your honor and
deeds, Tiberius. We try to have drinks and swap

"stories every few months. She's a good one."

ORION: Yes, I think so.

MATT: She takes a moment to herself and looks
around at the rest of you and says, "The cruel

"king. Who dealt the final blow?"

SAM: (clears throat) That would be the
kingslayer. Me.

MATT: She steps up and walks over to you and puts
a hand on your shoulder and gives you a stern look

in the eye and shakes your shoulder. She's a
halfling, so she's not too much taller than you.

(all laugh)

SAM: (laughing) Oh, okay.

MATT: "Good. The cruel king is down, and I thank
you for that." She walks back to the little perch

on the rock at the side of the wall and says, "He
tried to break me. Relish in his false

"superiority. Dragging hooks across my flesh,
underestimating the will of a servant of

"Bahamut."

MARISHA: Are you congratulating us for being
murderers? Is that what you're doing right now?

MATT: "Murder and justice are two entirely
different things and the deities of all good saw

"to it that this King's time was limited."

MARISHA: Are you suggesting now that we control
the wills of the deities?

MATT: "No, but we enact them, as long as we work
within your plans to keep us safe."

MARISHA: That's mighty bold and presumptuous of
you.

MATT: "My life has been given to guidance of the
platinum dragon, who has not seen nothing but the

"positive direction for all of your species, mine
and the rest of humanity, that exists in the

"material plane. You would do well to not
disrespect one who looks out for you, even though

"you may not look up to him for guidance. The
reason these lands that you grew up in are safe

"and free, as much as they are, are because of the
sacrifices of my brethren who came before me under

"his light and guidance. I'm not saying you to
worship him-- each one has their own gods of

"choice. I just say, show some respect."

MARISHA: I do show respect, Lady Kima. I show
respect when I feel that respect has been earned.

ORION: She's royalty, you have to understand.

SAM: We're all a bit cranky. Maybe we should just
turn in.

MATT: "I watched as they executed my companions!
The wondrous men and women who came down to these

"caverns at my sides with my coin in their pockets,
with the promise of justice. And they laughed as

"they cut their throats before me, hoping it would
be able to crack me. It was Bahamut's strength

"that held me there."

MARISHA: Lady Kima, I am not saying that what we
are doing here is not just. I only wish that you

understand-- and I humbly thank you for your
appreciation and thanks for coming down here to

rescue you. But you are correct. We have lost a
friend. Someone who we have been through a lot

with, way more than we have been with you. So.
Before we start boasting congratulations and you

start thanking us, why don't you wait? And we'll
see what happens when

we all get out of here first.

LIAM: She's suffering from PTSD. Why are you
poking the badger?

LAURA: Maybe we should just calm down and go to
sleep.

MATT: Kima takes a step forward towards Keyleth.
And as you look up at her face, there's a tension,

but you can see now that she's stepped near in to
you, towards what little bit of light seems to

cascade through this cavern, there are tears
streaking down her face.

LAURA: How do you feel now?

(all laugh)

MATT: "They tried all they could to break me, but
I knew my destiny would not end here. I have a

"destiny that does not end here."

ASHLEY: I reach out really slowly and give her a
handkerchief.

(all laugh)

ASHLEY: And then retreat.

TALIESIN: Lady Kima, as I'm sure you know, grief
speaks before sense.

MARISHA: All I'm saying, Lady Kima, is that after
what we have done and what we have been through

and the lives and the blood that even I have on my
hands, you had better be worth it.

TALIESIN: Let us wait for talk of worth and talk
of might until we are reunited.

MATT: She puts a hand up towards you. "Child, let
me explain to you why we are here. As while you

"may have stepped into the pretense of keeping me
out of harm's way, there is a purpose that I and

"now all of us serve, here in the Underdark. Now,
I've been on this journey for more than a year,

"traveling wherever the wind took me, finding where
my gift would find an end to suffering, justice to

"the wicked and comfort to the downtrodden. I'd
just returned from the frozen tundra northeast of

"these Cliffkeep mountains, heading to meet with
Allura, the same friend who brought you here."

ORION: I pop out of my sleep. Did you say Allura
again?

MATT: "Shh."

ORION: I'm sorry.

LAURA: Tiberius. Shh.

MATT: "My vision came to me. I'm sure you're
familiar with visions. The great platinum dragon

"bestowed upon my humble self a dream. I saw an
ancient vision of the great and terrible god of

"undeath himself: Orcus. His crimson, leathery skin
and endless wings rumbling through the Abyss

"itself. He had chosen a champion, one that would
unite the material world and the heart of the

"Abyss, bringing a doorway of oblivion to our
world. He cut from his own head two of his

"terrible black horns, placing them upon the brow
of this chosen warrior, his avatar to these

"realms, granting him power no mortal should ever
have.

"I saw heroes, long forgotten, rise up to destroy
this shadow champion, losing much in the ensuing

"battle. Loss, far more than you or I will ever
know. The body of the avatar was burned away, but

"the horns of Orcus remained. Untouched by flame,
blade, nor divine judgement. These keepers of the

"horns had a title that time has taken and the
whereabouts of the artifacts that had been,

"thankfully, lost as well.

"Until the next dream dispelled my confusion. I
felt a cackling entity of immense power, who had

"discovered one of the holding vaults, never meant
to be found. This creature obsessed, spent all

"their attention to unlock the promised treasure
within and over time, they did. One of the two

"horns had found a new champion, one who now
resides deeper within the Underdark here. One

"we've now known to be called K'varn. This one who
has united the illithid and the duergar alike

"under a banner of madness, expansion, and mockery
of life. I've seen these experiments, as have you.

"This is what I came down here to dispose of, once
and for all.

"Now, I hired some of the finest warriors in
Kraghammer for this, all of whom have been slain

"or worse. That guilt weighs upon my soul. And this
very quest, whoever this K'varn monstrosity, it

"holds the horn of Orcus upon its brow. My visions
have told me that we must destroy it and must do

"so soon. If it had already unlocked the artifact's
true potential, Kraghammer would be a ruin before

"you even arrived. But it's only a matter of time.
We must end K'Varn and retrieve this horn and

"return it to the Tal'Dorei council to discuss how
to seal it once more, hopefully for all of

"eternity.

"Your friend's loss is a terrible thing, but we
will try to find him and should we not, understand

"that his sacrifice was not in vain. For we're here
not to save one, but thousands, hundreds of

"thousands of lives, if we succeed. So we sleep, we
rest, we find your friend and we destroy this,

"this abomination, this anathema."

MARISHA: Lady Kima, I only hope you do not
eventually become what you fear so much.

Good night.

SAM: Sleep tight.

MATT: She picks up her blade, sits back down and
goes back to sharpening

(sounds of a sharpening stone hitting blade).

LAURA: That was weird, right? Good night.

TALIESIN: That went well.

SAM: Pike, I'll cuddle you for warmth, if that
would help?

ASHLEY: It's already so hot in here with all the
lava and stuff, I would just prefer to sleep

alone. I'm sorry.

SAM: That's fine. That's what I meant.

MARISHA: I turn into Minxie form and go off in the
corner and curl up in the corner.

LIAM: Scanlan, I'm very cold.

(all laugh)

SAM: You know what? We better let that foot heal.
We better let it heal.

LAURA: Trinket, go sleep with Vax.

LIAM: That's a good idea. Come here, Trinky.
Trink!

MATT: (bear sounds and sniffing)

LIAM: Who wants nibbles?

MATT: Trinket comes up and curls next to you. The
evening goes by, uneventful. Occasionally, you

stumble out of your rest, keep an eye out. The
beacon still resides. From what you can imagine, a

natural body sleep cycle that you're used to
passes. A few begin to wake up before the others,

as you have no daylight to ascertain whether it is
day or night. Indeed,

who knows what it is at this point.

ORION: I relieved myself in the middle of the
night.

LAURA: Thank you for telling us, Tiberius.

SAM: Did you get up?

MATT: Just wake up in a puddle of his own
dragonborn filth?

ORION: I did my dragonborn business and buried it.
As we do.

LAURA: So have we healed completely?

MATT: Yes, you've all healed completely at this
point. You had an evening's rest.

SAM: Do we get all our spells back and stuff?

MATT: You get your spells back.

MARISHA: We have to pick them for the day, right?

SAM: I can do things again.

MARISHA: Yeah, hang on, got to think about this.

ORION: Put some Greater Restorations in there.

MATT: Your mark? Wait, your mark, your Hunter's
Mark, which you can feel, the magic of it is

slowly waning as the spell comes to the end of its
effective period, is moving.

LAURA: (gasps) Where's it moving?

MATT: It's moving out of the city.

LAURA: Where, which direction?

MATT: Best you can tell, it's heading towards the
opposite side of the cavern towards where it

curves down, deeper and below.

LAURA: Wait. Where is that in relation to us?

MATT: To where you guys are? If you're looking out
from next to the Emberhold, it's to your right,

curving down and around.

LAURA: We should go that direction.

MARISHA: I go and cast Pass Without a Trace on us.

MATT: All right.

LIAM: This is suddenly turning into Labyrinth.
"Beyond the Goblin city..."

MATT: To take back the child, which you have
stolen.

LAURA: You have no power over me.

SAM: The way we came in the city was through the
side path, right?

MATT: Yes, the side of Emberhold, which you
followed the curvature of this giant cavern around

and you slept on the side, up against the wall,
using the illusion, the illusory terrain.

SAM: So we're already--

MATT: You're already away from Emberhold, you're
on the side of the wall, maybe about a quarter to

a half a mile further down.

SAM: But if we keep going, we'll get to the--

MATT: You'll head down further into the cavern,
seemingly in the direction where her Hunter's Mark

is currently leading, which has now faded.

SAM: Okay! Your Hunter's Mark is gone.

LAURA: Well, it went that way. We should go.

SAM: So, let's go. Let's just hurry.

LAURA: As stealthily as possible so we don't alert
the entire freaking camp.

TALIESIN: We've got Pass Without a Trace, so we
should be all right.

MATT: All right.

LAURA: I try to make it look like we weren't
around this area as much as possible without our

Dust of Tracelessness.

MATT: You're sweeping behind the group as they're
all moving along. With your imaginary brush.

LIAM: Trinket's doing that thing where he pulls
with his front feet and drags with his behind.

TALIESIN: He's just rolling like a giant brillo
brush.

MARISHA: I put Stone Shape in my Ring of Holding
last night with my unused spells. I meant to tell

you that last night.

MATT: That's all right. All right, you do that.

ASHLEY: Oh, I forgot you had that ring.

MATT: All right, so.

ORION: I take out my Ioun Stones.

MATT: Okay, so your Ioun Stones are now slowly
rotating around your head. Well, you can only have

one up at a time.

ORION: Well, I only have one.

MATT: Yeah, okay, good. You said stones, so.

ORION: Sorry. Pathfinder habit.

MATT: I know. So moving around your head slowly.
All right, so the rest of you gather, you cast

your spell Pass Without a Trace. You continue to
crest along the outskirts of the cavern wall at

this point. Looking over, you can see, throughout
the night, most of the fortress, currently-- the

lava fall that once contained it is completely
cooled and is dark. It looks like their way of

stopping the flow was to stop the entire magma
fall. Who knows how much damage has been done, but

currently the flow is halted and you can see now,
there's a number of parties of duergar that are

wandering out, through the cavern, presumably in
search for you.

LAURA: So technically, Lady Kima, we might be able
to get back in eventually and get your weapon.

MATT: As you say that, she grins to herself and
says, "I would like that very much. I had some

"sentimental value to that equipment."

LAURA: And there's a vault.

MATT: "And there is a vault."

SAM: Unless it melted.

LIAM: This will greatly enhance your ability to
move forward with us, won't it?

MATT: "I think right now time is of the essence
for your friend more than anything."

LAURA: We should go look for Grog.

MATT: "Besides, I highly doubt that that
stronghold has been left alone, just because it's

"filled with rock."

LIAM: Maybe on the way out.

MATT: Okay, so as you guys progress on the side, I
would like everybody to roll

a stealth check, please.

LAURA: Oh, I don't know which one to roll.

MATT: You still have disadvantage, but you have
advantage with your cloak, so you're neutralized.

You're a normal roll right now.

MARISHA: (softly) Stealth check.

ASHLEY: We have advantage?

MARISHA: You have plus ten.

MATT: No, you have disadvantage still.

ASHLEY: I do not. There's no plus anything?

SAM: Plus ten.

ASHLEY: Ten still?

ORION: 29.

LIAM: Plus ten?

MATT: Plus ten.

ORION: 29.

SAM: 19.

MARISHA: 33.

TALIESIN: 17.

ASHLEY: 21.

LAURA: 24.

LIAM: 33.

LAURA: Oh, I didn't roll for Trinket. Hold on.

LIAM: Oh, Trinket rolled a one.

LAURA: Trinket, shush. Oh, I didn't feed him
today, he's probably so hungry.

SAM: Have any of us eaten?

ASHLEY: We've rested.

MATT: Essentially, as opposed to having this
minutiae of reminding you all to eat, I just

consider when you rest and take short rests,
you're snacking and resting. Otherwise, we

communally spend ten minutes a game talking about
what you ate. If food begins to become

scarce, which it may in time, I'll let you know.

LIAM: Foot flakes anyone? Foot flakes?

MATT: It's like pork rinds (chuckles). All right.
So, as you continue down this cavern, you begin to

see the search parties in the distance and you
keep low and watch as they pass. Some of them have

small, that red glowish stone torches set out to
keep their vision about. You can see a few of the

parties returning to the city. Eventually, you
guys begin to crest down deeper and dropping into

a small decline as this giant, almost hatchback
cavern where most of the duergar civilization is

built in comes to an end. You begin to travel
deeper, deeper into the Underdark caverns below. As

you're continuing forward, you find a very very
familiar scent catches your attention immediately,

as you're tracking through, trying to keep your
attention on possibly any sign of Grog. It's the

smell of blood. It's the smell of fresh blood.
Fresh-ish.

LAURA: Fresh-ish?

MATT: Fresh-ish blood, if you will. You smell
fresh-ish blood. You immediately glance over and

you can see on the side of this cavern, which is
about 50, 60 feet wide at this point, as it's come

to a pinching point leading downward, you can see
a spatter of blood across the wall to your

immediate left, and what looks like a mangled mass
of what once was a duergar, currently just torn

asunder across this rock wall.

LAURA: Oh no.

MARISHA: Does it look to be natural, done by an
animal? Or does it look like people with weapons?

MATT: Go ahead and make an investigation check.

LAURA: The only time I've seen duergar split
across like this was when we saw the camp of that

creepy centipede creature.

LIAM: With the stalagmite coming up?

LAURA: Yeah.

MARISHA: Ten.

LAURA: Do I see any of those kind of tracks
around?

MATT: You check and look around on the ground as
well, you unfortunately, as you look around,

you're not able to pick up the fine details. You,
however, just being naturally understanding of the

Underdark, as well as having the previous
knowledge of inspecting the initial camp: yes,

these tracks are very similar. You see what looks
like these strange dragging marks on the ground,

these elongated ones. No footprints. Occasionally
you see what looks like a human-sized footprint as

well, and then these drag marks. You also notice
that there is just beyond the rock threshold, as

you step over towards the wall, you see three
other duergar bodies that are torn asunder. Many

of them partially eaten and violently torn apart.
Some parts are scarred, some sort of acidic burn,

and you see tooth marks, you see claw marks and
you see portions of limbs that have been pulled

off by sheer force.

MARISHA: Could I do a nature check to see if I
would know of a creature that could do this?

MATT: You certainly can.

LAURA: It's going to be that centipede creature
thingy.

MARISHA: Ooh. 26.

MATT: 26. It's weird. There are elements of the
drag marks on the ground that resemble a creature

that has pseudopods or some sort of a
tentacle-like mass, but you know of no natural

creature that also has this power, this type of
hunting technique, nor would be this far

underground.

TALIESIN: I think it's another stitch monster.

LIAM: Yes.

LAURA: Stitch monster.

TALIESIN: Stitch monster.

LAURA: I like it.

TALIESIN: I do, too.

LAURA: It's a good name.

MARISHA: Something tentacle-y though. Nothing ever
good is tentacle-y.

LAURA: Can I tell if Grog definitely came this
way?

MATT: Go ahead and make a tracking check, so just
go ahead and roll a d20. You have advantage,

because you're in the Underdark.

LAURA: What do I add that to?

MATT: It should be under your tracking ability
under your ranger abilities there.

In your spells, under you ranger abilities.
I'll see if I find it before you.

LAURA: I don't understand.

MATT: It's on the sheet I gave you, with all your
character stuff.

LAURA: Oh. Okay, cool.

MATT: That one. The one that's easiest.

LAURA: Natural explorer, primeval awareness.

MATT: Okay.

LAURA: I don't have any idea what I'm looking for.

(all laugh)

LAURA: I'm just looking at words right now.

MATT: It's a survival check. There you go.

LAURA: It's a survival check.

MATT: You have advantage on it.

LAURA: Okay. Oh, good. So that's 22.

MATT: 22. All right. Looking around, what you do
find is, there is a very familiar scent that a

goliath barbarian does have. You, using Trinket's
help, as you yourself are not quite as attuned,

Trinket does pick up a little bit of Grog's scent
in this pathway. So Trinket (moans) gives you a

nudge and points deeper down the cavern. And you
can see what looks to be a smattering of small

duergar-sized feet and two grooves.

LAURA: Two grooves?

MATT: About two-inch-wide grooves that continue
down the path.

LAURA: I wonder if they have him prisoner now. If
he came out of his mind funk.

MARISHA: Wheel tracks?

MATT: It could very well be wheel tracks.

ORION: Or they're dragging his body.

MATT: They're consistent and their width is
consistent.

MARISHA: Their width is consistent? And they seem
clean?

SAM: They've put him on some sort of stretcher
thing.

MARISHA: Yeah, sounds like they have him on, yeah,
a trailer.

LAURA: Lovely. Well, Grog definitely came this
way. As did the stitch monster, so you don't have

much choice but to follow.

TALIESIN: Let's continue.

ORION: Shall we?

TALIESIN: All right.

LAURA: Be aware. We're all very aware of--

MARISHA: Things.

LAURA: Any movement at all... happening.

TALIESIN: Guys, stuff.

MATT: Keeping your eyes peeled, you travel for
another two and a half hours down this cavern

path. It grows tighter at points where you can
only really fit three or four individuals through,

it's about 20, 25 feet wide, then opens up
sporadically into other small pockets, where the

natural topography of this portion of this
Underdark cavern structure seems to weave and

bend. The warmth and that sulfurous smell that was
intrinsic to the duergar portion of this cavern

that you were so used to, begins to slowly fade
and temperature begins to drop. Still

uncomfortable, but it's growing more humid as
opposed to dry heat.

ORION: It's so good.

MATT: After another hour of travel, keeping your
eyes out, the temperature drops significantly and

is actually quite cold. The heat in the volcanic
portion of this cavern structure apparently has

passed you now, and you've hit an area of the rock
where it is a much more chilled, much more

ominous--

ORION: It's humid still?

MATT: Human?

ORION: Humid.

MATT: Humid? The humidity begins to fade as well.
The air becomes a dry cold.

ORION: So we're past that.

MATT: You eventually using, which by the way the
only light source you have going forward is the

light from your staff.

ORION: Oh, Light!

MATT: I assume you've had it up this whole time or
you've been walking in the darkness.

ORION: Oh, yes, of course.

MATT: (chuckles) You continue down and the
topography, which was once the black, jagged

obsidian flooring of the previous portion of the
Underdark, begins to give way to a more natural

gray sand-type texture. Your feet sink about a
quarter inch or so with each step, and you get

about ten, 15 feet before the color of the sand
and the texture changes dramatically. It looks

almost like a peppering of small whitish-yellow
stones and rocks, as well as bits of black and

grey. It's like a giant, rocky pit out in front of
you.

MARISHA: What?

LIAM: Meaning it's all solid stone that color or
loose gravel and rock?

MATT: You find sand and then the sand eventually
gives way to like larger pieces of these rocks and

stones.

MARISHA: So it's like a pebble ball pit in front
of us?

MATT: Essentially.

TALIESIN: I'm looking for signs of mining.

MATT: Okay, go ahead and make an investigation
check.

ORION: I'm going to make an arcana check, also.

TALIESIN: 15.

MATT: 15. Checking the walls immediately in your
vicinity, you see there are signs of mining, but

they're old, they haven't been used in a while.
You can see some veins that are dried up. Looks

like maybe the duergar had business down here
mining.

MARISHA: Does it look like there-- Can I do a
nature check to see if this is an old lake bed?

Like there is a river bed?

MATT: Sure, go and do that. What did you roll?

ORION: 11.

MATT: What are you checking?

ORION: For arcana.

MATT: What are you checking?

ORION: Just general, if I feel a general source of
sinister magic anywhere.

MATT: Nothing arcane seems to emanate from the
vicinity.

LIAM: Vex'ahlia, you know the Underdark. Are there
any critters crawling around in that pit?

LAURA: Is this still the Underdark?

MATT: You seem to be still in the Underdark, but
the Underdark in general you're familiar with;

your training and studying on the denizens of it,
what things to look for. This is not a natural or

overall occurrence you've read about before.

LAURA: I can't sense anything or any creatures
nearby?

MATT: Not per se.

MARISHA: I rolled a 16.

MATT: Rolled a 16? As you're looking around, you
go and inspect the stones. What you do notice is,

they're not stones. There are pieces of glass,
little shards of actual volcanic glass scattered

across this entire field mixed with an endless
seemingly sea of small bone chunks.

LAURA: Ugh!

MARISHA: Chunks?

LAURA: Great!

MATT: Pieces of bone that have been rounded off,
ground, broken.

ORION: Bone petals.

MATT: They're ancient.

MARISHA: Okay, so there appears to be-- are there
any whole pieces of bones? Big femurs or skulls?

SAM: This was some sort of burial ground.

MATT: It's hard to see. Most of the bones that
have been here, have been around long enough to

the point where they've eroded, been broken,
destroyed over and over again to the point where

you can't discern any of the original creatures
they may have come from. It's just a sea of bone,

obsidian glass, and small bits of stone that have
fallen from the actual nearby cavern.

LIAM: Can we see any sort of civilized
construction here? Or is this all the work of

nature or some living thing?

MATT: Go ahead and make a perception check.

LIAM: 18.

MATT: 18? You look past the barrier of his light
spell, because you can only get a little bit past

that due to your elven low-light vision. You do
notice there are occasionally some spires of

natural rock, some stalagmites that are jutting
out in the distance, and you see what looks like

some semblance of a ruined wall just beyond the
edge of the vision. Like a crumbled, small wall.

LAURA: Can I use my primeval awareness and see if
I can sense Grog within six miles of us?

MATT: Certainly. All right, so how does your
primeval awareness work, miss ranger?

LAURA: Oh, I can use an action to focus my
awareness on a region around me and then I can

sense whether-- oh, well, no. It's only certain
types of creatures.

MATT: Right. Which are?

LIAM: Like goliath?

LAURA: Well, no. It says "aberrations, celestials,
dragons, elementals, fey, fiends, and undead".

LIAM: That still might be useful, even if it
doesn't find Grog.

MATT: What you do gather, you do sense a very
strong force of aberration-based, much further,

like five miles ahead, way ahead, and you have
this weird, "Okay, good to know." You don't sense

anything else, but you do sense a general presence
about this entire sea of bone.

ASHLEY: I've been here!

MARISHA: What?!

ASHLEY: I was here in the vision.

LAURA: Really?

ASHLEY: Yes, it was a field of broken glass and
bone, and I feel like this is it.

LAURA: So what do we do?

ASHLEY: And then after that, I got to a cavern of
blue crystal.

LAURA: So we have to go beyond it.

MARISHA: So we're on the right road.

ASHLEY: I think we have to go beyond this.

TALIESIN: All right.

ORION: Well, let's keep moving, then.

LAURA: Can we keep to the edge and try to not
disturb the rock as much as possible.

MATT: As you move to either edge, you can see the
wall comes to a straight meeting with this. Aside

from the climbing the walls proper, you have no
other way of traversing this.

LIAM: Could you describe the dimensions of this
one more time?

MATT: Yes. The cavern itself is about 120 to 150
feet wide. You don't see the ceiling right now.

LAURA: Oh, it's that high?

LIAM: So, from our left to our right, 150 feet?

MATT: Correct.

LIAM: And is it a big circular shape?

MATT: From what you can tell, it just opens up and
then continues and then darkness. You cannot see

beyond it.

LAURA: Are there any rocks around us? Any big
rocks?

MATT: There are a couple of small spires about
60, 70 feet out.

LAURA: Anything loose? Anything I can grab near
us?

MATT: Around you? Most everything that's grabbable
are part of it, yeah.

ASHLEY: We don't have the magic carpet. So never
mind.

SAM: What, do you want to fly?

LIAM: I say we take a wall.

TALIESIN: Say we just gingerly try and cross
against a wall.

LAURA: Yeah. Anything to throw as far as I can out
and see if it--

MATT: You look around and find a small pebble, and
you chuck it (sound of pebble flying through air

and landing) It arcs around, bounces a bit, and
comes to rest.

SAM: Let's just go.

MARISHA: No! No, I'm not touching that. Nope.

SAM: What are we going to do? Turn around? Grog's
that way.

MARISHA: Okay, here's my idea. We've got that
immovable rod.

ORION: Yes, I know where you're going with this,
and we'd all have to make a certain--

MATT: Once again, there's something about this
whole area, there's a presence about it. It's

ominous, and everywhere about this floor.

MARISHA: I don't want to touch this. I feel like
we should go over it.

ASHLEY: What if these bones come to life?

LAURA: Can you send your light source up? Can
anybody send light up and see

how high the ceiling goes?

ORION: (mumbles) Shoot an arrow, if you would,
Vex, please? Wherever you wish.

LAURA: Okay.

ORION: Light!

MATT: Okay, cast out an arrow. As it shoots over,
arcs through the air. You get a look of the

cavern. You can see it's a large, arched, natural
cavern with a number of hanging stalactites at the

top. It goes up, arcs past, and then lands
probably about a half a mile down the way. Really

nice shot.

LAURA: Thanks.

MATT: And it lands with a (impact noise). With
what little bit you can see through the arc, this

path just continues and continues and continues
for that full half mile.

LAURA: There's no way to avoid it.

MARISHA: There's no way to avoid it.

MATT: You do get a nice view of what looks to be
more of these little, central pieces of broken

wall. Looks like there was either a small series
of structures or buildings that were built once

within this cavern that have all completely
crumbled to ruin with but a few small bastions of

foundation that still remain.

LAURA: Tiberius, how many times can you cast
pillars of... whatever? Pillars.

ORION: Grand Columns is the spell, Vex.

LAURA: How many times can you cast Grand Columns?

ORION: Multiple times, I guess.

LAURA: Could we potentially walk on columns across
this thing? Potentially.

MARISHA: I mean, I could wall of-- bend us a stone
wall that's and we could just walk along the path.

But it goes only so far.

ORION: Hold on a second. I've got something here.

LIAM: We're seeing the remains of buildings
scattered throughout, maybe we could go from--

LAURA: What about a wall from out from the side?

MARISHA: The side? And then we walk along that
side?

LAURA: Yeah!

MARISHA: Yeah, we could do that, right?

MATT: How big is the wall you can make?

LAURA: What were you going to say?

LIAM: Well, there's little islands of structure
left, we could just--

LAURA: Hop.

LIAM: Stand bridge, stand bridge, stand bridge.

MARISHA: I can go 120 feet. I can make about 120
feet wall.

MATT: You saw about a quarter to a half mile. This
seems to continue.

LAURA: So, that might not be enough.

SAM: She'd have to do it 20 times.

TALIESIN: I think we may just have to walk
gingerly.

MARISHA: Maybe we can fashion--

ASHLEY: Should we find traps? Check for traps?

MARISHA: Can we fashion snow boots?

LIAM: Vax starts feeling along one side of the
wall. Does the ground look firm and more stable on

the edges? Or is it all just the same?

MATT: Do you step out a little bit into the area?

LIAM: Hand on the wall.

MATT: Hand on the wall? I mean, it's a wall.

LIAM: No, but I mean-- yes.

MATT: But you step out with your hand on the
wall.

LIAM: I'm not stepping out yet. I'm looking at the
ground. Is it pebbles and rock

all the way to the sides?

MATT: All the way up to the wall.

MARISHA: Okay.

ORION: Lady Keyleth, if you will, could you
perhaps make a flat, sturdy stone tablet we could

all particularly stand on.

MARISHA: Sure.

ORION: Make sure it's under a hundred pounds, if
you could. Or actually, two hundred pounds, a

little bit more to work with.

MARISHA: I use Stone Shape and I bend down and
make a big circle where I am. Carve out a little

cylinder with Stone Shape.

MATT: So, using a very earthbender-y hand motion,
you take a portion of the wall right next to you,

send it outward and begin to shape it into this
large cylinder--

MARISHA: Disc.

MATT: Disc-like platform, that's (boof) on the
ground, right at the base of the platform.

ORION: Everybody, hop on.

LAURA: Trinket, hop on this rock.

ORION: Wait a minute, how much does Trinket
weigh?

LAURA: A lot.

LIAM: Is it 200?

MATT: Trinket weighs more than that.

LIAM: Trinket weighs a ton. All of us together.

MARISHA: Maybe you could just levitate Trinket
behind?

ORION: I don't have that spell anymore. I need to
know how much she weighs for this.

MATT: Trinket, I mean, looking at it, you haven't
really weighed her yourself, you gather--

LAURA: Trinket's a boy!

MATT: Trinket weighs approximately--

(all laugh)

SAM: Trinket's a boy?! With a name like Trinket?

LIAM: Haven't you seen his wang flopping around
under his tail?

MATT: Trinket's probably close to a thousand.

ORION: So here's the situation. I can get us all
across, but I cannot take Trinket as well.

LAURA: I'm not leaving Trinket behind. So
everybody get on that and we'll see what happens.

SAM: Why don't we go across. He can come back and
get Trinket.

LAURA: Okay, yeah. How about you guys go and I'll
stay with Trinket. You guys go.

LIAM: Well, I'm not going to leave her.

MARISHA: Can we make him weightless and then tug
him along with the rope? We can't do that?

ASHLEY: I have a question. How many feet across?

LAURA: It's like half a mile.

MATT: Quarter to a half mile from what you can
tell, like I said, you only have vision enough to

where the arrow arced and it was a very long
arc, that just trailed off so you gather anywhere

between a quarter to a half mile.

ASHLEY: I want to run across.

(all laugh)

SAM: With your heavy armor.

LIAM: Sneak right in there.

LAURA: Oh, just do it.

ASHLEY: Wait, are we getting on the rock?

LIAM: How far is the closest little island of
remaining structure that you referenced?

MATT: Oh it's probably about 60, 70 feet out.

LAURA: I don't sense any undead with my primal
awareness do I?

MATT: The perpetual presence that you sense across
the entirety of this bed of bone and glass, if you

had to describe it, it has some sort of undead-ish
realm. It's not your specialty, I mean it is, like

undead creatures are, and the presence is similar
to that.

ASHLEY: I get my Mace of Disruption ready.

LAURA: Oh, and Kima!

MARISHA: (gasps) Oh! We're done! We can do this!
We polymorph Trinket!

ORION: That's it, yes!

MARISHA: We polymorph Trinket!

ORION: Very good.

ASHLEY: Into a tiny tiny?

ORION: Make him into a chicken.

MATT: You instinctively glance around, you look
down, and you notice your holy symbol of Sarenrae

has a hairline fracture in it. What was once a
perfect and impeccable sphere of design-- you've

had this your entire life, you look down and see,
you don't know how recently, but a portion of the

metal symbol itself is cracked.

SAM: Oh, Pike.

ASHLEY: Oh no, this is terrible.

LAURA: Pike, pray! do something!

ORION: I motion over to Pike and I take her
medallion slowly off of her and go-- and bring out

my Mending Wheel.

MATT: Your Mending Wheel, which was where? It was
in the Bag of Holding.

ORION: No, I held that.

MATT: The Mending Wheel's this big. You haven't
been carrying it with you this entire time!

ORION: What? I thought it was like this big.

MATT: (laughs) Tiberius.

ASHLEY: I'll take my symbol back, put it back on,
and say, this is something that I've got to--

this is something I need to deal with. We can't
just put it in a Mending Wheel.

LIAM: The gods reward deeds, not words.

ASHLEY: Yes.

MARISHA: Maybe it happened in the fight.

ASHLEY: I think I know why it happened.

SAM: Maybe because you've been killing unarmed
people?

ASHLEY: I think it was when I slit the guy's
throat. She got mad. Just a hunch.

SAM: But you know what? We'll do some good deeds
when we're done.

ASHLEY: Yeah. This is something that I need to
fix, but thank you for trying.

ORION: I forgot we didn't have it.

LAURA: Well, Trinket, what do you want to be? A
lizard? A mouse?

MATT: (bear noises)

LAURA: A kitten? (gasps) A kitten.

ASHLEY: A little kitty.

LAURA: You want to be a kitten?

MATT: (laughs) Trinket glances over at you with a
look in the eye of like--

MARISHA: And I go (floop), and I make him a
kitten. What kind of kitten?

LAURA: Oh, he's a Persian.

MARISHA: He's a Persian kitten.

MATT: Trinket's form (shwoop) shifts down into
this tiny white puffball with a pushed-in nose.

LAURA: You're the cutest, Trinket.

ASHLEY: I go and I snuggle, and I nuzzle him.

LAURA: I tuck him into my shirt.

MATT: You sense immediately, Trinket is not
necessarily pleased, but will deal with it.

MARISHA: Well, he's so cute.

LAURA: He's so cute.

ORION: In Draconia, those are snacks.

SAM: I wouldn't say that.

LAURA: Let's go! Come on! Let's get on this thing!
Grog's getting ahead of us.

SAM: All right, let's go. On our stone airplane.

MARISHA: Let's get on the Wonkavator, everybody.

ASHLEY: All right hop on. I hop on.

MATT: All right, so you all hop onto this giant
stone. It's really cramped, you're all

shoulder-to-shoulder pushed onto here, clutched
onto your new Persian cat. Kima and Clarota step

onto it.

ORION: I cast Telekinesis on the stone slab, lift
us up, and push us.

MATT: Okay, how much weight can you push through
Telekinesis?

ORION: A thousand.

MATT: Okay.

ORION: I did all the math. (clears throat) Vax
weighs 155, Pike weighs 75. Taliesin weighs 190,

Vex weighs 120.

ASHLEY: But Scanlan weighs nothing.

ORION: Sam weighs the same, 75. Keyleth weighs
125.

MATT: Yep. Kima weighs 105. With all of her armor,
she'd be 105.

SAM: Clarota can float.

MATT: Clarota can float. Does that still fall
under a thousand total?

ORION: Yeah, should. Is that right?

SAM: What about you?

TALIESIN: Plus the rock.

LAURA: The rock would be less.

ORION: That's why I kept a hundred pounds for
that.

MARISHA: A hundred pounds for the rock.

LIAM: Want to run those numbers again for the
calculator?

MATT: Rock's 100 pounds? That's not a lot of
stone.

LAURA: It's a very thin piece of stone.

MATT: That's a very thin piece of stone. All
right.

ORION: Nine. Nope, we're at nine-- we're there.
We're at nine-something. You can do all the math,

but it's nine-something.

MATT: Okay, all right, so you all stand on the
platform. It (straining noises) rises up, and it's

one of those all of you have to gather yourself,
but nevertheless it is now floating. How long does

it last, concentration wise?

ORION: Ten minutes.

MATT: All right.

LAURA: Quick! Float us!

MATT: So, as Tiberius begins to concentrate, the
stone begins to glide out over this expanse of

broken bone and obsidian glass.

ORION: I hover about-- what's bone break?-- around
six feet above the air.

That's how high I take it.

MATT: Okay, so you're cresting about six feet. You
have to move it around occasionally to avoid some

of the large stalagmites that are jutting out of
the bones.

LAURA: Do we see anything? I'm keeping an eye out,
see if I see any movement or anything that's maybe

sparkles. I don't know.

TALIESIN: Keeping an eye behind us, as well.

MATT: Okay. You guys, keeping an eye out, you see
more and more of this ruin, and you can see the

the further in you go, you start seeing bits of
bone that are larger than what's near the edge.

You start seeing bits and pieces that are full
bones, so they've been more-- still rounded and

weathered, but they're less ground down as
supposed to the edges where most of the traction

seems to be. You get about 300 feet out before you
hear a loud, echoing scream across the cavern.

(loud yell)

ORION: In front of us?

MATT: In front of you guys.

LAURA: What's it sound like?

MATT: It's male, and it's loud.

LAURA: Go! Can we go faster?

ORION: We hear this. I push us forward. I mean,
we're going in that direction anyways, so I speed

us up.

LIAM: Keyleth, take the gnomes!

MATT: Correct, okay. As you speed up and
continue--

ASHLEY: I jump on Keyleth.

LIAM: Take the gnomes!

MATT: Okay.

ASHLEY: Grab some feathers.

SAM: I'll grab on as well. Why not.

MATT: All right, so Keyleth, you transform
maintaining concentration on Polymorph for

Trinket, I believe, right? All right. It's not a
spell, it's an effect you do. So you (whooshing

noise) you transform into a giant eagle, you grab
both the gnomes, you guys are lifted up off the

platform as the platform continues to push
forward.

ORION: Cool, so I get a little bit more control
over it now. (grunts)

MATT: A little bit more. As you're pushing forward
you feel the stone itself has this weird wobble to

it, but you still manage to keep concentration,
pushing forward. Eventually, the little bit of

light from your Light spell cascades past one of
these joining parts of a wall, and then beyond

that you can see what looks like a few other stone
pillars that are sticking up. And you see what

looks to be a small party of duergar that are in
the middle of battle.

There is one duergar who is splattered across the
bone floor. You see a troll that is currently in

the middle of a fistfight with something that's
moving extremely fast. This blur of motion. You

can barely make out the physical form before the
troll turns and runs in your direction, surprised

to see the light coming towards you, and in its
expression of extreme confusion and fear, you see

something (whoosh) past, and its head just (soft
falling sound). Rolls off the top of his

shoulders.

LAURA: That's not Grog! We're going to toward a
monster!

MATT: (crashing sound) The troll body hits the
ground. As it does you see bits of bone begin to

rise up and pull the troll down underneath.

LAURA: Oh, it's really good we're not standing on
it!

ORION: Avoid! (whooshing sound)

LIAM: Daggers out.

TALIESIN: Guns out.

MATT: As you guys begin to push forward you can
see two of the duergar are now backing up

instinctually. One looks down at his feet now that
have been grabbed, and he's being pulled under,

and he just starts trying to wrestle himself free.
This blur of motion jumps off one of the

platforms, spins in the air, and lands with a slam
that completely splatters across the rock that

he's right next to. This duergar, you can see part
of his jaw go flying off to the side and silence

hits him in the middle of his scream.

The last duergar there, you can see who's looking
around, sees the stone platform, and goes, "Let me

"on! Let me on!" He goes running over and is trying
to jump up towards the stone platform

you guys are on.

LAURA: How much does he weigh? (giggles)

MATT: Well, he's going to go ahead and try and
grab it with an athletics check-- he makes it!

(latching noise) He gets onto the side.

SAM: Kick him off!

MARISHA: Fuck that guy!

LAURA: I punch him in the face!

MATT: Okay, okay. You go ahead and (punch thud
noise). You just beat him in the face. He holds

tight. You're not a very strong person,
unfortunately.

LIAM: I grab him by the cloak. What is it? What
is it?

MATT: "I don't know! Get it away! Get it away!"

MARISHA: In eagle form, I'm going to do a nice
high soaring lap.

SAM: We're on you!

MARISHA: I know! It's okay! I'm going to use my--
I'm soaring high. It's an easy breeze. We're on

the people mover. Okay. And I'm going to use my
keen sight to see if I can get a good... (pew)

MATT: Okay, so, using that you glance down and in
this brief moment where it seems like the

cacophony of this entire circumstance slows down
(slowing sound noise). And your eagle eyes glance

down, and you can see in a brief moment the blur
stops. You see a humanoid form. Looking at the

body and the torso, it looks elven. Its very thin
and gaunt legs dangling as four giant,

jagged-looking tentacles sprout from both sides of
its torso, holding it aloft.

Two lifting it off the ground and keeping its body
suspended, while two are (fwhoosh) whipping around

in the process. As you're glancing, you see its
head (cracking noise) glance up toward the wall.

These blank, white eyes shooting around in
different directions spontaneously, with this

maddening look. Whatever this is is clearly insane
and is currently driven on some sort of hunger

bloodlust. The stitch marks you see across its
body are very reminiscent of the earlier

abominations that you saw, created by K'varn and
sent throughout this cavern structure.

LIAM: Keyleth's the only one who sees it, though,
at this moment?

ORION: Do I see it?

MATT: You guys haven't yet. At the moment, you're
talking to this dwarf or you're shoving him off

the platform.

ORION: Can I see it as I'm cruising through? I see
him?

LAURA: We wanted to throw him as far as we could.

LIAM: Yes, the twins pull him up and one--

LIAM AND LAURA: Two, three!

MATT: (laughs) All right. As you chuck the duergar
through the air, the creature who briefly had

stopped, and you guys now see its motion stop, and
you get a full view of its horrible form.

(grunting, panting sounds)

ORION: As soon as I do that, I cast True Strike.
(ftsssh)

MATT: All right, you cast True Strike on
yourself?

ORION: On him!

MATT: On him?

ORION: What it does is, it allows me to see--keep
going, I'll tell you. Go ahead.

MATT: All right, so it stops for a second. You
guys all get a view of its vision. As it's looking

up towards where Keyleth is, suddenly its head
(shh) snaps back into focus as the duergar goes

swinging through the air. As it does (snarling) it
licks its lips and you can see now, where its

mouth is, the lips curl back and the jaw splits
open slightly with this horrible Predator-like

fanged jaw, and the two tentacles that are
currently up in the air reach out, grab, and

(tshhh) just split it in two.

Its torso then divides and sprays it with crimson
as it (tongue flicking noise) licks it out of the

air. (breathy growling)

LAURA: (whispering) Go faster. Go faster!

ORION: I'm still going! We're still going. I'm not
standing and watching.

SAM: Have we passed it yet?

MATT: Everyone roll initiative.

LAURA: Oh my god, we're going to fight? We're
going to fight this thing?

MARISHA: I was going to say we should try and
avoid him. Poop monster.

LAURA: Oh, god.

SAM: No, we're floating above it. We've got
advantage.

MARISHA: Do we?

LAURA: We're all stuck on a single piece of rock.

ORION: Yeah, well, that's the thing.

SAM: We're fine. One of us has guns.

MATT: All right.

LIAM: And we saw the duergar get pulled under by
skeletal arms?

SAM: By the bones.

LIAM: Yeah, the bones pulled down, right? So it's
not just this thing.

MATT: I'm using this as the figure for the
creature.

ORION: By the way, Matthew.

MATT: Yes.

ORION: True Strike. I extend my hand and point a
finger at a target. My magic grants me a brief

insight into the target's defenses. On my next
turn, I gain advantage on my first attack roll

against the creature, using that spell as a
guide.

MATT: Gotcha. So! For the purposes of this, the
two gnomes are alongside Keyleth's eagle form.

TALIESIN: Oh, we're going to use the little
thingy?

MARISHA: Yeah, are we going to use the levitating
thingies?

MATT: What? Yes, we are. Let me pull them out
right now over here.

TALIESIN: Levitating thingies!

MARISHA: Levitating thingies! Makes us look cool.

TALIESIN: It's been so long.

LAURA: Ooh, I like it.

MATT: There's the rest of you. Although, Trinket
is a kitten.

SAM: Trinket is a cat.

TALIESIN: Trinket only has the power of
"adorability."

MATT: This is the stone slab over here that you
guys have created. All right, so. Initiative

rolls, everyone. Starting at... 25 to 20?

LAURA: 21.

MATT: All right. That puts Vex at the top of the
round there. And brings-- there we go. 20 to 15?

LIAM: 17.

ORION: 18.

MATT: 18? 15 to ten?

SAM: 12.

MATT: Ten to five?

MARISHA: Eight.

TALIESIN: Eight.

MATT: (laughs) Okay.

MARISHA: Team Eight.

TALIESIN: Boom.

MATT: Pike, what did you get?

ASHLEY: Four.

LAURA: Yay!

MATT: Okay, yay, Pike, bringing up the rear!

MARISHA: Team Single Digits!

ASHLEY: Team Single Digits!

TALIESIN: We'll get there.

MATT: Top of the round is the monstrosity. It is a
very quick-- move the camera. Follow me this way.

There we go.

(all laugh)

MATT: It uses its quite grand movement of 50
feet to (shh) lumber over to this side, and it

gets two attacks with its tentacles, with reach.
Actually three attacks.

MARISHA: On who?

MATT: This is going to be at you guys.

LIAM: I don't need this foot.

MATT: This is going to be one at Kima, one at you
and one at Tiberius as you are the three currently

within its positioning view. First one is going to
be at you.

LIAM: Okay.

MATT: Oh, that is going to be a 14 to hit?

LIAM: No.

MATT: All right, so you (whoosh) dodge out of the
way. The one towards Kima. Oh that's going to be a

15 to hit, which it strikes her armor, but she
manages to pull out of the way and it gleans off

the side and you can see a little bit of this acid
scarring across the edge of her leather armor. The

third strike going out towards Tiberius (swoosh).
That is (laughs) a critical one. It actually whips

out and strikes the bottom of the stone you guys
are standing on, which rocks it for a second, and

you all essentially get worried but it seems to
have no effect. That was a really terrible opening

round for the creature.

MARISHA: Here's my question. Is this all happening
still over top of the bone pit?

MATT: Oh yeah.

MARISHA: Okay.

MATT: That brings us to Vex.

LAURA: Hunter's Mark!

MATT: All right so you mark him

LAURA: Right on that guy.

MATT: Do it. He is Hunter's Marked and I'm putting
this on here as a reminder of your mark.

LAURA: Okay.

TALIESIN: It's so fashionable.

MATT: Isn't it though.

LAURA: I'm going to lightning arrow him. Oh, I
can't do that because I Hunter's Marked him.

MATT: Correct. that was your bonus action.

LAURA: I'm going to Hail of Thorns that guy.

MATT: All righty, thorn hail him.

LAURA: Okay, at level three.

MATT: Okay!

LAURA: Through my Bow of Blazing Bowstring.

MATT: Okay, so as you pull back your arrow, you
pull it up, you can see the thorns (thoosh)

actually grow rather rapidly out of the wood
itself and as you pull back, the bowstring itself

ignites setting the bow, the shaft of the arrow on
fire as well as you release, rolling?

LAURA: 22.

MATT: 22 to hit?

LAURA: Yes.

MATT: That hits.

LAURA: Yes!

ASHLEY: Yeah.

LAURA: So then I roll my regular damage plus
3d10?

MATT: Correct, plus the fire damage which is
1d10.

LAURA: Okay, whoa. So 14 for the first.

MATT: Okay and then roll technically 4d10 because
it's the fire.

LAURA: 4d10, this is crazy.

MATT: Yeah!

LAURA: Four, 11, 19. 21.

MATT: So 21 plus 14?

LAURA: Yes.

MATT: 35 points of damage. Nice. So you release
(soosh).

LAURA: Oh plus Hunter's Mark damage!

MATT: Yep, there you go. That's why you did it.

LAURA: Six.

MATT: Nice, 41 points of damage in the first
attack from the ranger.

MARISHA: (cheers)

MATT: All righty, so you release the arrow as the
creature (woosh) shifts into place, it lashes out

with all its tentacles and as it pulls back, looks
like it's ready to pounce you release the arrow

right towards its torso, it hits, and it looks
down instinctually and it bursts into a spray of

thorns all over its face and its torso and you can
see it (monster screech) reels back from the pain,

you can see the flames licking up over the front
of its body. You can see there's a semblance of

clothing on it. Whatever this thing once was, it's
still wearing the clothing it had and a portion of

it has burned off part of the torso. Whoever this
poor soul once was, there is no shred of humanity

left in it.

ORION: Before that ends I go, hop off.

LAURA: Hop off? No way. I'm not stepping on this
bone shit.

LIAM: There's undead things in there

LAURA: That's my turn.

MATT: And that's your turn, and you're holding a
kitten.

LAURA: Oh he's tucked into my armor.

MATT: Oh, he's tucked into you? Okay. That brings
us to Tiberius, you're up.

Tiberius, what are you doing.

LIAM: Tibber-hoods.

MATT: What you got?

ORION: Okay, everyone hold on tight.

SAM: You're giving us opposite notes.

MATT: What you got?

ORION: How wide was the stone tablet? Ten feet for
all of us to fit on?

MATT: It's about 15 feet round.

ORION: Perfect, I move us right above the butthole
and, everybody hold on. And I fucking slam all

of us right on him. (boosh)

MATT: Okay. So the platform comes cascading down
at a fair speed immediately breaking over this

creature, as it is a pretty thin wall to have only
been about 100 pounds. It completely shatters over

the top of it. Everyone who was on that platform,
go ahead and make a dexterity check.

ASHLEY: Get it, guys. Come on.

LAURA: I get two because it's favored terrain,
right?

MATT: Correct.

LAURA: Yes, okay good.

MATT: All right so.

LIAM: 17.

LAURA: 23.

MATT: Oh, Pike's not there.

TALIESIN: 24.

ASHLEY: I'm not happening for a while.

ORION: Me too?

MATT: Yes.

ORION: 12.

MATT: 12. All right. So all the rest of you manage
to leap off and tumble the best you can to catch

yourself-- except for Tiberius.

ORION: Wait, do I make a dexterity check? I mean
I'm not-- okay.

MATT: You do. You're still on the platform. It
just shattered around you. So you however fall

prone on the ground from the impact and land on
the ground. That's also going to end your turn.

MARISHA: Did it do any damage?

ORION: Can I not do any bonus actions?

MATT: Unfortunately not, due to the failed
dexterity save. It practically knocked the wind

out of you due to the impact.

ORION: Okay.

MATT: That was the unfortunate part of missing
that dexterity check.

ORION: Okay.

MATT: However, it does deal from the crushing
damage to the entity that'll be I'll say 3d10

points of damage. I'll see if it makes its save to
reduce to half. Which it does. Rolled a 21. What's

your DC in your spell?

ORION: 17.

MATT: So it makes its save, so it's half damage.
Roll 3d10 and it's half that.

ORION: (counting noises) What is that, 19.

MATT: Okay, so it takes a total of nine points of
damage. Crushing damage from the blow of the stone

on top of it. Nice. As it (crssh) shrugs off bits
of chunks of stone that are around its body, you

can see a little bit of blood is being pulled to
the seams of its body. It's taken some hits. It's

still doing all right but it's definitely-- you
can see it's not impervious by any means. That

brings us to Vax.

LIAM: All right, well, I use my bonus action to
click my Boots of Haste together.

MATT: Your Boot of Haste.

LIAM: Boot of Haste? But aren't magic items
resistant to--

MATT: Oh yeah I was messing around.

LIAM: Okay, yeah. Start sneak attack from behind.
32 for the first attack.

MATT: You unfortunately do not get sneak attack on
this. It knows where you are. You do not get the

round before it-- nobody else is adjacent to it
because everyone else had to

jump off the platform.

LIAM: So no one's right next to it? I'm the
closest one?

MATT: Currently no. You are the closest one to it
because everyone had to jump off as it fell, and

the fact that as soon as you rush towards it, its
head (cracking noise) clicked over its back and

looked straight at you, almost the neck bending in
the process.

LIAM: You block me every chance you get with this
one. So that was the first attack...

MATT: No, this creature is really quick and very 
aware of its surroundings.

LIAM: So first attack is nine. There's more coming.
Here comes the poison dagger, which is 23.

MATT: 23. That does hit.

LIAM: That is ten. Because of the Boots of Haste,
I get a third attack.

MATT: You do.

LIAM: And that misses entirely. In fact, I think I
threw my dagger into the bones.

MATT: What did you roll a one?

LIAM: A one, yeah.

MATT: Okay, so the first strike hits. The second
one, you feel the poison energy pulse through the

blade. What's the DC on that again?

LIAM: It's 15.

MATT: That hits. You feel the poison (crssh) enter
its side, and it looks down-- oh, it is immune to

poison. Sorry. Oh, abyssal abominations! So the
second blade goes in. The third one, you go ahead

and swing towards it, and it (splssh) actually
slaps the blade out of your hand and sticks to the

ceiling. (whoosh) Thankfully, it returns back to
your belt because magical belts are cool.

All right, cool. That ends your turn. Kima's turn.
Kima, who just managed to land, grabs her sword

and reaches over. You can see the divine energy
instilled within her blade. She is going to make

two attacks against the creature. She rushes
towards it on that side there. It's going to be

yeah, 17. That'll hit. That's 27 to hit, and then
a natural 20. So a hit and a critical. She's

going to go ahead and get 15 damage from the first
strike. Second one is going to be...

MARISHA: We need to get off this floor real bad.

SAM: Well you're not on it.

MARISHA: I'm not.

SAM: You can make a dance floor next to them.

MATT: All right, as she strikes it both times with
the sword, you can see the first strike hits and

the second one, she swings around and she instills
with her Divine Smite, which does an additional

eight points of divine damage. The second strike,
as it slashes across, you can see the torso splits

open. As the torso opens up, you can see a part of
its guts spill out, and they begin to slowly pull

themselves back in.

MARISHA: Hell no.

SAM: She's Wolverine!

MATT: (laughs) Scanlan you're up.

SAM: Okay. Do I have a clean line of sight on her?
Or are we too far away?

MATT: You guys are up in the air being held by
her. Probably actually I'd say...

MARISHA: I'm doing the eagle glide.

MATT: You guys are about 30 feet up right now.

LAURA: Oh man.

SAM: All right, so I think I'm in range. I'm just
going to blind the bitch.

So I cast Blindness on her.

MATT: Okay, what's the range on that?

LAURA: It's a girl?

ASHLEY: It's a her?

SAM: Isn't it a girl?

MATT: No it's a male elf.

SAM: Yeah, well I'm so demeaning to it, I call it
a girl.

ASHLEY AND LAURA: Why is that demeaning?

SAM: Because it is a chauvinist. I know that.

MATT: What's the range on that, Scanlan?

SAM: I'm looking.

ASHLEY: Disadvantage on his roll!

LIAM: You're in the wrong group to being saying
that shit, man.

(all laugh)

SAM: I'm drunk!

MARISHA: Whatever. (laughs)

SAM: How far am I? I can't even tell. I can't see
the board.

MATT: You're about 70 feet.

SAM: I can't do it.

MATT: You can hold your turn if you want to wait
for Keyleth to go.

SAM: I can hold my turn? I've never done this
before.

MATT: Yeah. Meaning if you're waiting for someone
else to take their turn first, you can hold back

until they do theirs. So you can wait for her to
pull you closer.

SAM: Okay. I will wait for that, then, and I love
women.

ASHLEY: Oh, we know. We know.

SAM: Biblically.

MARISHA: Keyleth does a little dip really quick.

MATT: All right, gotcha.

MARISHA: Makes Scanlan a little nervous.

MATT: All right. Clarota takes his turn. Clarota
is going to... the situation's too dangerous to do

anything Lightning Bolt related. Clarota instead
is going to use Mind Blast against the creature.

No that's no good either, at this positioning--
yeah no, because he'll

get a bunch of you guys, too.

SAM: God, Clarota.

MARISHA: Clarota!

MATT: Instead Clarota is going to...

LAURA: Can he heal us?

MATT: No. Clarota's not really the healing kind.
Clarota is going to cast Blur on himself to try

and keep it from taking one of these points of
wound damage. So he uses his turn to cast Blur.

Clarota's form begins to shift and vibrate in and
out of place where it's hard to see exactly where

Clarota is standing. Clarota is going to take two
steps back, unfortunately in the threat range of

the creature. It gets (whoosh) a reaction to
attack against Clarota. Thanks to the Blur spell,

though, it misses entirely. So the strike strikes
and it passes through with no effect. Clarota

moves behind one of the rocks here, actually this
far, for cover. That ends Clarota's turn. Keyleth

you're up.

MARISHA: Okay. I caw-caw closer

MATT: Like over where?

MARISHA: Yeah, there's good. Shit, can't cast any
spells unless I land. I'm going to have to drop

down. Can I perch on one of these stalactites?

MATT: You can, but you're going to have to let go
of the gnomes to do so.

ASHLEY: Do it.

MARISHA: Can I drop off you guys?

ASHLEY: Yep.

MATT: You hear (bird noises).

SAM: What?

MARISHA: And I drop them off really quick.

ASHLEY: What did she say?

MATT: All right, so both of you guys make
acrobatics checks. Disadvantage for you because of

your armor.

ASHLEY: But don't I get a plus ten?

MATT: Not for acrobatics, you don't.

LIAM: Right. You're a bullet falling from the
sky.

SAM: 16.

MATT: Okay.

ASHLEY: Eight.

MATT: All right. As both of you guys get released
as you go to perch on these rocks.

MARISHA: I'm going to turn back into Keyleth holding
onto the rock.

MATT: Okay. So we'll put you there. Keyleth, no
longer an eagle. This is out of the way. You guys

both land here and here.

MARISHA: But I'm still on the rock. I still want
to be on the rock.

MATT: I'm considering you on the rock, but I don't
want to have to try and balance you right there.

Scanlan, you land, catch yourself on the bones, and
you're fine. Pike, you sink into your waist at the

impact.

ASHLEY: Because my armor's so heavy? (laughs)

MATT: Speed and the way your inability to catch
your weight and use it. You just go (schoomp).

Just stick directly into the bone up to your
waist.

LIAM: You're gnomic lawn art.

ASHLEY: Aw, dang it!

MATT: Percy you're up!

MARISHA: Wait, I'm not done!

MATT: Right. Sorry, you turn back. So Keyleth,
what are you doing?

MARISHA: The laser pointer's dead. Now I'm going
to make a wall of stone. Wait, is there someone in

the way? Is there somebody behind him? Is that
Vax?

LIAM AND MATT: Yeah.

MARISHA: Damn it, Vax!

SAM: He didn't ask to be dropped there.

LAURA: That's where we landed.

MARISHA: Shitballs. All right. I'm going to do
Grasping Vine, then. No, I should make us a dance

floor. I'm going to make us a dance floor, then.
I'm going to do a wall of stone. How concentrated

can I do my wall of stone, actually? Can I do a
wall of stone to where it's doughnut-shaped? Where

there's a hole in the middle? And now I make a
wall going across the top?

TALIESIN: A doughnut of stone.

MATT: I would say, based on the description of it
here...

MARISHA: A horizontal wall?

MATT: Ten foot by ten foot panels.

SAM: Panels. Squares.

MATT: Alternatively, you can create ten foot by 20
foot panels that are only three inches thick. So

yes, you can, you can create any shape you desire,
so you can make it a doughnut hole type thing if

you want to.

MARISHA: Dope. So, I'm going to make a
doughnut-shaped dance floor, and I'm going to make

a hole in the middle to where he's still in the
middle in the bone, but we're all on rock. Around

this area.

MATT: So, it's just around all of you guys or
underneath everybody?

MARISHA: Underneath us.

MATT: Okay.

MARISHA: I'm making a dance floor.

SAM: That was an excellent move by a strong,
independent woman who doesn't need a man to tell

her what to do. Or to validate her in any way.

MARISHA: I want everybody--

MATT: You might not be able to get Pike.

MARISHA: I can't get Pike?

MATT: No, because there would be a weird loop
there.

ASHLEY: I can maybe try to Sprinter's Boots my way
up.

MARISHA: Well, as much as I can do, but I want to
make a nice hole to where he's still--

MATT: I would say you can either get Pike or you
can get these guys here. That's about where you're

going to call it.

ASHLEY: No worries. Do some damage!

MATT: What are you going to do?

MARISHA: I'm going to boost up Pike. She's halfway
underground.

MATT: The wall comes out and it stops there.
That's as far as you can get it. This whole area

now is a wall. It pops you out of the stone as the
stone lifts you up. You have to catch yourself for

a second, but it's not so abrupt to the point
where you get knocked off the side. You're all

lifted up about ten feet. So just mark that area
as stone wall. Got it.

MARISHA: Except for douchebag.

MATT: Except for douchebag.

SAM: Now that I'm within range, may I go?

MATT: After Percy, and then it's your turn. You
all get to hold at the same time, so. Percy.

TALIESIN: Does he get an attack of opportunity if
I run?

MATT: You don't know.

TALIESIN: How close am I? I can't see.

MATT: It took one reaction against Clarota.

LIAM: You're further than five feet away, because
had you been five feet away I could have sneak

attacked.

TALIESIN: Oh. Well, all right. The first thing I'm
going to do is shoot twice in the face of this

asshole.

MATT: Okay. Go for it.

MARISHA: Shoot twice into the face of the asshole,
Percy.

TALIESIN: 14?

MATT: 14 does not hit, unfortunately.

TALIESIN: But 28 will.

MATT: 28 will. So the first shot, you shoot, the
body just goes (sound of air splitting speed) and

totally unnatural sense sees where the aim is and
is already out of the way before the bullet gets

there. Returns, but you catch it up with the
second shot from the Pepperbox, and blast in the

side of its chest. Go ahead and roll damage.

TALIESIN: Oh my god. This is awful. Six.

MATT: Six points of damage. All righty.

TALIESIN: That's just embarrassing.

LAURA: That's something, that's something, Percy!

ASHLEY: Hey, you know what? We're getting close!

LAURA: That's better than a one.

MARISHA: Pike is just an inspirational poster
today. Like, it's okay, we can do it!

TALIESIN: Thanks, mom. All right. Thanks, mom. I'm
going to try to make a run for it to the

stalactite by your hand.

MATT: Right here?

TALIESIN: If I could even climb up on it, that
would be very cool.

MATT: That's going to, with your run speed, you're
going to have to do that next turn.

TALIESIN: Okay, that's fine.

MATT: You don't have enough action to do that, but
you get to it. Scanlan, you're up!

SAM: I'm going to blind him. With Blindness in his
eyes.

TALIESIN: Try blinding him with science, that
usually works.

MATT: Are you using your hand cone?

SAM: I am using my hand cone.

MATT: I assume you do, for the most part. So
what's your DC with that?

SAM: 19.

MATT: Good. All right, fails its roll.

ORION AND ASHLEY: Yes!

MATT: As you release the arcane essence, you can
see this darkness spill up and completely cascade

over the white, almost soulless, freaking out eyes
of this creature. It's very Silent Hill in the way

it moves. Suddenly, its eyes (shhh noise) fill
over with darkness, and you can see it beginning

to writhe and move around like it's unable to
truly grasp the full surroundings. It appears to

have taken effect.

ORION: Nice!

SAM: And then I give a little inspiration to Pike.
I look over to her, give her a little wink, little

smile...

LIAM: Spirit her on with anger. Good job.

MATT: Take your 1d8 inspiration.

ASHLEY: 1d8? Okay.

SAM: That's all it takes.

MARISHA: That's all it takes. (laughs)

MATT: All right. That ends your turn, Scanlan?

SAM: I think so.

MATT: You're going to stay right there?

SAM: Where am I?

MATT: You're on top of the wall, right here.

SAM: Yeah, I'm staying on that wall, yeah. I don't
want to go anywhere, yeah.

MATT: Okay. Pike, you're up.

ASHLEY: Okay. So, from where I'm at--

MATT: Yes, on top of this wall here.

ASHLEY: I'm on top of a wall? I'm going to Guiding
Bolt the whatever-it-is.

(all laugh)

SAM: The whatever it is.

ASHLEY: And then-- okay, wait, hold on. Let me
cast that at-- So what do I roll for?

MATT: You roll and add your spell attack modifier
to it, I believe it is, to hit for Guiding Bolt.

ASHLEY: So I roll the d20 to see if I hit?

MATT: I'm pretty sure, yeah. It should be in the
description.

ASHLEY: Okay.

LAURA: That's good, that's good!

ASHLEY: 15.

LAURA: Plus anything?

ASHLEY: Oh, plus-- wait, what am I plussing? I'm so
sorry!

MATT: Your spell attack.

LAURA: It's on your spell page.

MATT: It's on your spell page, top of your spell
page.

ASHLEY: Okay.

MATT: You haven't used it in a while. Yeah.

ASHLEY: 23.

MATT: 23 does hit!

ASHLEY: Yes!

ASHLEY: Okay, so then we do--

MATT: 4d6 points of radiant damage to it.

SAM: It's also blind.

MATT: Yes.

ASHLEY: 15? And I'm going to add my inspiration
from him.

MATT: You can't add that to damage. It's only to
hit.

SAM: Save it for later.

ASHLEY: So, 19.

MATT: 19. So, as you look down, you grab your holy
symbol, and even though it is cracked,

you still feel the presence of Sarenrae looking
down upon you. The divine energy coalesces in your

hand, and you throw it forward with a divine wrath
as it streaks across the air. It slams into the

side of this weird twisting abomination, and as it
blasts into it you can see its tentacles reel back

and pull back in severe pain and it roars this
horrible, screeching (bleeegrh screech) scream

into the cavern around you, echoing down the hall.
It's looking a little rough.

ASHLEY: Okay. And then there's nothing I can do
from there, right?

MATT: That's your action. You can move if you'd
like. Move along the wall, or hop off it, or

whatever you want to do.

SAM: Come closer to me!

ASHLEY: I'll stay!

(all laugh)

MATT: All right.

MARISHA: Because she's an independent woman.

SAM: That's a proud choice, and I honor and
respect it. I love women!

MATT: So currently, because it's--

MARISHA: Pike's not the only one cashing karma
points.

MATT: So technically, I should have remembered
this, but you hit anyway: while it's blinded,

attacks against it have advantage.

LAURA: Oh, okay.

MATT: And its attacks have disadvantage.
So, as a note. Top of the round, now, the

monstrosity goes ahead and gets its round. It's
going to go ahead and lash outward. Thinks people

are around it, seeing the wall go up, it's going
to swing out towards you. All right, that is a 16

versus armor class. Nice! So, as it swings out
towards you on the wall, you duck out of

the way just in time. A second tendril (whoosh,
swish) reaches out and is going ahead and head

forward... let's see. This one's probably going to
make its way either between your foot or Scanlan

on the wall. I'm going to roll to see who it goes
for. Goes for Tiberius. That is 16 versus armor

class again.

ORION: No. 17.

MATT: 17? Nice! Let's see...

LAURA: On the ground, you look up like...

ORION: No! My big toe! Bah!

MATT: Third strike is going to whip around and
attempt to grab... roll between both... Okay, it's

going to go for Lady Kima. And that's a natural
20.

LAURA: Oh.

TALIESIN: She's a magnet.

MARISHA: Even with disadvantage?

MATT: Well, actually, no, technically it would've
still been a 15, so it's not a critical, but it

still hits.

MARISHA: That's good.

MATT: Unfortunately, without her full armor, her
AC is not that crazy. So it's not a critical.

That's nice. That brings it to a total of 18
points of damage with an additional six acid

damage to Lady Kima.

LAURA: Oh. Acid. None of us have gotten hit yet.

MATT: And the tentacle (whoosh) wraps around her
and grapples her in place, and she's currently

held in place by its tentacle. She stays where she
is. It is now going to attempt to leap away. It

brings all of its tentacles to the ground and
(whoosh) leaps up into the air.

LIAM: Attacking before it goes.

MATT: You get one attack of opportunity against
it.

LIAM: 27.

MATT: 27 does hit.

ORION: I swing at it with my cane as I'm on the
floor.

MATT: No.

SAM: Do I get an attack?

LIAM: 11.

MATT: 11 points of damage? All right. It takes 11,
and it leaps away, (whoosh) taking her with it,

and here, it's actually going to land about there,
and you can see as it leaps away and lands, the

wounds you guys have left on it are slowly
healing.

MARISHA: Son of a bitch!

MATT: Vex, you're up.

LAURA: All right. I don't want to hit Lady Kima
with any of my attacks, so I'm just going to have

to do... I'm going to do the Blazing Bowstring
again.

MATT: Okay.

LAURA: And I'm going to attack it twice.

MATT: All right. Go for it. Roll for strikes.

LAURA: Ooh! That was a 30!

MATT: You have advantage on these strikes, by the
way. Well, actually, let me see, because I think

it gets a save each turn to try to get rid of your
blindness, which it does not make.

ORION: Nice. Is he blind?

MATT: Okay. So still blinded.

LAURA: 29.

MATT: Hits. Definitely.

LAURA: And 23.

MATT: Both hit. Go ahead and roll damage on both
attacks. First one with the extra d10 for Blazing

Bowstring. This arrow: once again, you pull out,
burst into flame (whoosh). The heat is a bit

strong for your face, but you release it forward;
it actually impacts into your damage. Streaks

across with an arc of fire, and slamming into its
side, dealing?

LAURA: 14 points of damage on the first one.

MATT: All right. Second one?

LAURA: (laughs) What did I do on that? That was
weird. 14 on the second one as well.

MATT: Nice! All right.

ASHLEY: And can I cast War God's Blessing on her
and give her a plus ten? For an attack roll?

MATT: She's already attacked, but to other people,
you can. And you can do it after they roll. If

somebody rolls and you're like, that's a really
bad roll, you can be like, plus ten! and it

might give them enough to push them over the edge.
It's not for damage.

ASHLEY: It's not for damage. It's for--

MATT: Attacking, to make sure you hit them.

ASHLEY: I understand. Okay, great.

LAURA: But with Hunter's Mark-- she's still
Hunter's Marked!

MATT: Correct. Oh, did you not roll that damage?

LAURA: Four.

MATT: All right. Extra four damage from the
Hunter's Mark. Tiberius.

ORION: Yes.

MATT: So, do you get up? You're currently lying on
the top of the wall.

ORION: I look around, and I don't like what I see,
and I try to get up.

MATT: Okay. You (grunts) stand back up. You're
currently at the top of the wall;

it's ten feet up.

ORION: Really? Okay, where's he again? All I see
is mountains. Oh, I see, you put the yellow ring

around him? And Kima's to the right of him?

LAURA: Kima's being held by him.

ORION: Oh, okay. Great. I look at him, see what's
going on. I (ping) my Ioun Stone, and I conjure

out Telekinesis from it, and I guide it towards
the monster's tentacle to unwrap it off Kima, and

I attempt to pull it off her.

MATT: Go ahead and make an arcana check.

LIAM: That's Telekinesis, Kyle!

(all laugh)

ORION: Sweet! 20.

MATT: 20? All right. As you focus your
Telekinesis, the tentacle begins to shake and is

pulled off her body. Kima wrenches herself free.
She is not currently grappled.

ORION: Can I also go like, (bash) Stop hitting
yourself!

(all laugh)

MATT: The tentacle starts slapping around its
body, and it looks confused. It's not enough to do

any damage, but it looks unsure as to why it's
having a hard time controlling its own limbs.

ORION: I give a nod to Kima.

MATT: (laughs) Well done.

ORION: That's my turn.

MATT: All right, cool. Vax, you're up.

LIAM: I'm still hasted, so I'm going to use a
bonus action to go stealth.

MATT: All right. It can't see you, by the way.

LIAM: What?

MATT: It's blinded.

LIAM: Oh, it's blinded? But do I still need that
to sneak attack, though? Or does it matter? Never

mind. I'm running at it, and since Kima's right
there, I'm going to stab the bejesus out of it.

MATT: Go for it!

LIAM: I'm going to use Luck on that roll.

MATT: Okay. Well, you have advantage, remember,
because it's blinded.

LIAM: Okay, great. So that is a 29.

MATT: 29 hits.

LIAM: Okay.

(incoherent mumbling)

LIAM: Which part gets doubled? I always forget.

MATT: It's the dice.

LIAM: So 19 goes to 38, and then the damage gets
added to that, right?

MATT: Correct.

LIAM: With the sneak attack, and the damage gets
doubled--

MATT: Correct, and then the bonus at the end gets
added on to that.

LIAM: The bonus at the end. Okay, all right. So
what that is is 47.

MATT: 47 points of damage. Oof. So as you rush
past, you (swoosh) slam the blade into the side.

You see where part of it seems to start and open,
but it's starting to close up again. You reopen

that seam and drag across, leaving a giant wound
across its side.

LIAM: Okay, and then with that knife in, I'm going
to stick the other knife in and attempt to attack

it and then drag it to the ground. Grapple it to
the ground with my body as I attack. Second attack

is a 25.

MATT: 25 hits.

LIAM: Okay. That's seven.

MATT: Are you doing damage, or you grappling him?

LIAM: I'll grapple.

MATT: Okay, so there's no damage on this. Go ahead
and make an athletics check.

LIAM: Okay. 20. Natural 20.

(all cheer)

MATT: Nice! So you grab it, and you pull it. You
have it currently held. Its physical body is

pulled to the ground, and you can see its arms are
trying to pull it up off the ground, and (slurpy

noises) flipping around. Complete chaos in the
air. You imagine you'll probably have a hard time

holding it down, but for now it's currently
blinded and grappled.

LIAM: With haste, I have a third attack.

MATT: You do.

LIAM: I'm going to drag across its throat. That is
a 25.

MATT: That hits.

LIAM: And that's seven.

MATT: You don't get the bonus-- oh, for the extra
attack you do, because it's with your main arm.

So, seven damage? All right. Cool. You bring the
blade across, and you can see the blood begin to

pour out from it, and as it does, you can see the
throat opens up, and where you cut on the throat

you can see what looks like white gleaming teeth
on the inside of its throat. The entire interior

of its trachea is coated with teeth.

ALL: (noises of disgust)

SAM: It has a maw?

MATT: Kima's turn. Kima sees you holding it down.
Takes the sword, swings it, and is going to come

on down, spending a level-three spell as a Divine
Smite against it. That hits with a 22. This

advantage is kicking its ass. Second attack.

LAURA: Nice Blind, Scanlan.

MATT: Oof. Yeah. Both hit. All right. 36 points of
damage, and a divine strike. And 12 points on the

second blow. As she comes down and slams it with
the big sword twice, the first one arcing down

with divine energy, streaking across the
barely-lit cavernous area. It hits the ground, and

it splatters blood across. You can see one of its
tentacles is barely hanging on by just a section

of muscle and sinew. However, she looks down real
fast, and you can see now these skeletal hands are

reaching up and grabbing her legs and starting to
pull her down. She's going to attempt to try--

ORION: Kima?

MATT AND LAURA: Kima.

LAURA: Oh, I wonder if that's going to happen to
all of us.

MATT: She's unable to break from that. She's now
being pulled down into the ground beneath her.

That brings us to Clarota's turn. Clarota is going
to move--

MARISHA: Who all is on the dance floor?

MATT: Ugh, can't do this.

LAURA: All of us except for Percy, I think.

MATT: Clarota's going to stand here and pull back
and begin to coalesce this bluish crackling energy

in Clarota's hand. The tentacles of Clarota's face
begin to swirl and pull back into this horrible

grimace as it releases this bolt of lighting
energy that arcs past, just overhead of where Kima

is, since Kima's been pulled down below. Lightning
Bolt. Two ones in a row, are you fucking kidding

me? I'm rolling terribly tonight, guys, by the
way.

LIAM: It's mostly in our favor.

MATT: Yeah. So that Lightning Bolt would do 15
points of damage. With disadvantage on its save.

Still makes it, so (laughs) with a Lightning Bolt
that does a grand total of seven points of

damage--

LAURA: It's better than one, Clarota! It's better
than one!

MATT: Clarota looks away dejectedly. "It was the
best I could do." All right. Keyleth, you're up.

MARISHA: All right. Seeing Lady Kima slowly
getting taken under, I make eye contact with her.

MATT: All right.

MARISHA: What?

MATT: No, continue.

MARISHA: Okay. And I make a Grasping Vine from
that stalactite over there.

MATT: Here?

MARISHA: Yes. And I'm going to take it and wrap it
around Lady Kima and try to yank her out.

MATT: Okay. All right. So as the vine pulls out of
the side of this rock (whoosh), it reaches out and

wraps itself around her body and begins to pull.

MARISHA: Around her waist. Not her neck, again.

MATT: Right.

MARISHA: Yeah.

(all laugh)

MATT: Good distinction. All right.

MARISHA: Just wanting that out there.

MATT: Yeah. It's a good thing. So, Grasping
Vine... yeah, okay. So it pulls 20 feet; she gets

pulled 20 feet. I'll go ahead and say, make a
wisdom check.

MARISHA: I'm trying not to hurt her.

MATT: Right, I understand. This is more your
strength of will versus the strength of

whatever--

MARISHA: Just adding my wisdom?

MATT: Yep.

MARISHA: 20. Total.

MATT: 20. So, as the vine wraps around her and
begins to pull, she reaches over and grabs the

vine for extra strength, and (fwoomp) it pulls her
out of the wall. She goes flying over and lands at

the side of the stone with a vine that's still
loosely wrapped around her, but it's definitely

pulled her free of the floor.

MARISHA: Can I leave it to where it's holding her
up, to where it's not touching?

MATT: Sure! Yeah. She's currently held aloft by
this vine that strapped her. She's looking

confused. Thankful, but also wants to be let go.

MARISHA: Can I take a bonus action to shout at
her? Be like, "Calm down Kima! Jeez!"

MATT: Sure. Is that the end of your turn?

MARISHA: Yes!

MATT: Okay! As you finish casting the spell and
shouting at her, you look down and notice the

ground. (swish, shoosh) Begins pulling you down

MARISHA: No, I'm still on the stalactites. I
haven't moved off the stalactite!

I'm straddling it.

ASHLEY: A little straddle action!

MARISHA: I'm riding that stalactite

MATT: Go ahead.

MARISHA: Riding it side-saddle.

MATT: It's really hard to be on top of that and
cast spells and talk about this. (chuckling) It's

a giant piece. I'm going to say, go ahead and make
an athletics check.

MARISHA: All right. Ooh! 24.

MATT: Okay! You manage to precariously stay on the
top of this stalactite, holding on to it, casting

spells and shouting out. All right.

MARISHA: Jeez, Kima! Stop! This is hard already!

MATT: Percy!

TALIESIN: I'm going to crawl and find myself a
seat on top of that stalactite. That's my first

thing I'm going to do.

MATT: Okay, well, at the start of your turn, make
a dexterity check.

TALIESIN: 20!

MATT: All right. You manage to pull out. Now make
an athletics check to try and make your way up to

the top of this rock.

TALIESIN: Athletics or acrobatics?

MATT: This would be athletics, just to pull
yourself up on the side.

MARISHA: Rock climbing check.

TALIESIN: 13.

MATT: 13. Okay! You can decide whether or not you
want to attempt to ascend this or make any attacks

this turn, because right now it's going to take
your full round to get to the top of this. It's a

very thin, jagged, almost vertical wall you're
trying to climb up and hold onto.

TALIESIN: How far away am I from the stones? From
the platform?

MATT: From the platform here?

TALIESIN: From something I can stand on that's not
sand.

MATT: You're probably about 35 feet.

TALIESIN: So I could make it in a run?

MATT: You could make it in a run, yeah.

TALIESIN: All right. I mean, in a standard
movement action?

MATT: No. You'd almost make it.

ORION: What's your movement?

TALIESIN: My movement is 30. Just almost make it?

MATT: Yeah. Right now, this wall's blocking you
from even seeing the creature. As far as you know,

you see a giant wall and you hear fighting on the
other side of it.

TALIESIN: I'll make it to the top of the
stalactite, then.

MATT: Okay, so. (grunts) You get up to the top.
I'll put this here as a reminder. But that's where

you are right now. Okay, that ends your turn.
Scanlan!

SAM: Is there anywhere I can stay on the dance
floor and get a line of sight with the creature?

MATT: I'll say you'll be able to get right up next
to Tiberius, right here, and be able to get line

of sight.

SAM: And can I throw lightning and not hit
Tiberius?

MATT: No.

SAM: (nervous laugh) Okay, then. Then I don't do
that. Instead, I will-- I've got nothing to do!

Let's say I will try to-- is she-- it's a he.

MATT: It's a he.

TALIESIN: It's a he! God!

SAM: I have no ranged attacks. Except I can
Viciously Mock it, so that's what I'll do. I'll

say, you know what? Your tentacles make you look
kind of fat, and the elf thing is played out. It's

sort of 1990s. Orlando Bloom. And the whole bone
thing is just really tacky!

ORION: I look at Scanlan curiously. (laughs)

MATT: Tiberius looks over. You look over your
shoulder at at Scanlan with a curious look. Rolled

a four. So essentially, being blind, all it can
rely on right now is audio sensation around it.

And it picks up ringing through the air. What hint
and shred of humanity is within its psyche

understands the Common you speak in its direction.
And for a moment, it seems to sag all its

tentacles. Go ahead and roll damage for your
Vicious Mockery.

SAM: Three! Yes! It's the only ranged attack I
have.

(all laugh)

MATT: I was just seeing if there's another effect
of Vicious Mockery.

ORION: He's sad for a while. (laughs)

MATT: Is there anything else it does?

ASHLEY: He's dead!

MARISHA: Yeah, he just dies!

ORION: Negative two to self-esteem.

MATT: Vicious Mockery-- has disadvantage on--
okay! So it has disadvantage on disadvantage on

its next attack. Got it!

TALIESIN: Does that mean it has triple?

MATT: Nah. If it did, that would be awesome. Pike,
you're up!

SAM: Oh! And as my bonus action, I'm going to
inspire somebody. I don't know. Who? I look over

at Liam and I do-- sorry, Vax. And I do one of
these.

(all laugh)

MATT: All right. You are strangely inspired by
that.

LIAM: I giggle-snort.

MATT: Okay. That brings us to Pike. You're up.

ASHLEY: Okay, so where are we at? I'm so sorry. I
can't see.

MATT: You're right there, on top of the wall, on
the far back end. You can't even see the entity.

It's way off to the side and a bunch of people are
in a row on top of a wall that Keyleth created.

ASHLEY: Okay, so I'm going to use my Sprinter's
Boots and get over. Everybody's healed; everybody

hasn't really taken too many hit points?

MATT: You've guys rolled really well and it has
rolled terribly.

ASHLEY: So I'm going to go around here. Oh, I
don't know, can I have--

MATT: It's a very thin wall. Make an acrobatics
check to try and move and tumble through the

people. With disadvantage because you're in heavy
plate armor.

SAM: But you've got inspiration.

MATT: You do.

LIAM: You can add that to your roll. So add
inspiration.

MATT: Roll twice. You're at disadvantage.

LAURA: 13.

ASHLEY: What, plus eight?

SAM: You can roll a d8.

LIAM: It's advantage, so pick the higher.

MATT: No, disadvantage, because she's in heavy
armor.

LIAM: Oh oh oh.

ASHLEY: 16.

MATT: 16? You just manage to barely squeeze
through people without falling off of the top of

the wall, finding yourself right there.

ASHLEY: Okay. So then, since I'm there, I'm going
to cast Guiding Bolt again.

MATT: Okay.

ASHLEY: And then I'm going to cast it at 4th level
again. And then, which is--

MATT: Roll to attack twice. You have to roll to
hit it first. Roll twice, because it is blinded

and has disadvantage. You have advantage on it, I
mean.

ASHLEY: 18.

LAURA: Plus your spell thing?

MATT: 18 plus your spell.

ASHLEY: Oh, which would be 26.

MATT: That does hits. Go ahead and roll damage.
You are at 4th level, that is 7d6 damage.

ORION: Nice! Holy crap.

SAM: Pike, perhaps you should spare it for your
god, or offer it in sacrifice to your god?

ASHLEY: Sorry, guys.

TALIESIN: That's a lot of math.

SAM: You know what? Women are good at math.

ORION: They are.

TALIESIN: They are.

SAM: Probably better than men.

ORION: I would say probably.

ASHLEY: And then do I add anything?

MATT: No, that's just the 7d6.

ASHLEY: 26.

MATT: 26 damage, nice!

SAM: Good adding.

ASHLEY: Hey, thanks!

MATT: As you pull through the rest of the crowd,
you stand next to someone, you grab your holy

symbol again. This time, looking up to your hand.
This divine energy materializes and shines down in

a god ray onto your hand as you gather it with
your fingers, it seems to formulate this actual

thick rock feeling sensation. You swing it
underhand softball pitch with absolute furious

anger that slams into the side of the creature,
bursting with the divine energy, doing a very

sincerely impressive amount of damage for a small
Guiding Bolt. It's currently still trying to get

back up after Vax has been holding it to the
ground. You can see it blast its side. You are

almost pulled over on top of it by the sheer force
of the impact.

ASHLEY: Sorry, Vax!

MATT: That brings us to the top of it now.

SAM: It's still alive?

ASHLEY: It's still alive?!

LIAM: It's got that healing factor.

SAM: Can we undo its healing factor?

MATT: After all the impact, all the sounds it's
hearing, it moves over to this vicinity.

LIAM: Ain't he grappled?

MATT: Oh, you're holding it here.

LIAM: I'm holding it.

MATT: It's going to attempt to break from your
grapple.

LIAM: Good luck.

MATT: So you make an acrobatics check.

LIAM: Do I get advantage on this?

MATT: For this check, you do, I believe.

LIAM: Okay, good. 27.

MATT: 27? 29. It slips out of your grasp, moves
over to this vicinity here. And you can see now,

the tendrils open up, even though its eyes can't
see. You can see what looks like a bunch of gills

across its body, slits in its torso and it almost
looks like all of them open up into these tiny

little mouths. You can also see teeth rippling
through them and expels this cloud of green gas

that (fssh) around everyone within ten feet of
it. Everyone on the wall, right here. Clarota--

you are just out of range of it-- and Kima are
affected. So that would be Pike, Vex, Trinket,

technically. Clarota. So I need you guys to make a
constitution saving throw.

MARISHA: What?

SAM: (garbled) Make a constitution saving throw.

MATT: Pike? Whenever she comes back.

SAM: Who has to do this? Pike, Clarota?

MATT: Pike, Clarota, Trinket, Vex.

LAURA: Should I roll for Pike?

MATT: Wait until she gets back. What did you
roll?

LAURA: 19. Oh, 19 and then for Trinket-- oh no.

MATT: Clarota does not make it. Kima does not make
it.

SAM: I can roll for Pike.

MATT: All right, go for it.

LAURA: No!

SAM: I've got this, guys. We're connected in a
special gnome way that you have no idea how pure

this bond is.

LIAM: Here comes the one.

SAM: 16, plus whatever.

LAURA: Oh, plus her-- wait, I'm looking up her
constitution. Plus one. 17.

MATT: All right. Trinket rolled a...?

LAURA: Seven.

SAM: (singing) And that's the power of love!

LAURA: But I rolled a 19.

MATT: Right, as this cloud of greenish gas bursts
out from all these strange slits in its body, you

feel this acidic fume fill your lungs and touch
your skin. You manage to duck out of the way and

resist a lot of the damage, as does Pike, pulling
up her cloak in front of the way. You guys take 14

points of acid damage. However, Clarota and Kima
and Trinket all take 28 points of acid damage.

LAURA: (gasps) 28 points?!

MATT: Yes.

SAM: For Trinket?

MATT: Yep.

SAM: Is Trinket still a cat?

MATT: Trinket's kitten form is taken away as the
Polymorph wears off--

LAURA: Oh, shit. Boom!

MATT: (boosh) This bear bursts out from your
chest.

SAM: Oh, no, your shirt is ripped.

LAURA: All of a sudden, my bosom comes flying
out.

MATT: So Trinket's at full health again. Hold on,
the kitten form, I'm going to say, would have

about five hit points, so taking five from 28...
Trinket has taken 23 points of damage.

SAM: Pike, you just took 14.

MATT: 14 points of acid poison damage, as this
entity vented its torso into this giant fume of

acidic gas.

SAM: It would have been much more if Scanlan
hadn't been around, that's all I'm saying.

ASHLEY: Oh, wow. Okay.

MATT: At which Trinket bursts out of Vex's torso,
landing into the bones below. (growls)

LAURA: No, in the bones?

MATT: Yeah, because on the wall (fwoosh) out in
front of you.

TALIESIN: Now we know how many hit points it takes
to kill a kitten. That will actually be useful.

Five. Five hit points.

LAURA: Five hit points. That's good.

TALIESIN: Five hit points, everyone.

MATT: All right. It's going to finish its turn.
That brings us to Vex.

LAURA: That's me!

MATT: Yep.

LAURA: Is there anything-- what's nearby? Is
anything within five feet of it?

MATT: Oh, actually, I should see if it-- it does
resist. It is no longer blinded.

SAM: Oh, snap.

MATT: You can see the darkness fades from its eyes
and the whiteness bursts from its face. It's

intent now, as each eye individually darts around
and takes reference of all the points of possible

attack that are now before it.

MARISHA: Wait, its blindness wore off? Oh, poop.

LAURA: Is anything within five feet of it?

MATT: Trinket is.

LAURA: Trinket's going to be affected. Oh! I
command Trinket to move, then. Can he?

MATT: Okay. Trinket can, yeah, if you want.

LAURA: Can he try to climb up and get away from
it? Oh, no. He'll take a hit, won't he.

MATT: He will.

LAURA: Do it.

LIAM: If it hits. It could miss.

LAURA: Oh god, but he's so low on health.

ASHLEY: Where's he at?

LAURA: He's right next to it! Get up, Trinket,
get up on the wall. And I'm going to cast Hail of

Thorns on the thing.

MATT: What's the radius on Hail of Thorns?

LAURA: Five feet.

MATT: Five feet. Okay. Trinket is going to attempt
to get up the wall. Make an athletics check for

Trinket, (laughs) who's going to try and climb a
ten-foot solid stone wall, which is--

TALIESIN: Bears can climb trees.

MATT: Trees, yes. Solid, smooth stone walls?
Little more of... but--

LAURA: What is it, is it an acrobatics?

MATT: It's going to be athletics for Trinket.

LAURA: Athletics. I don't know what to add, but
it's 19 plus whatever. Strength?

MATT: 19 plus strength.

LAURA: 23.

MATT: Okay, Trinket scrambles up the side of the
wall. As it does, one of the white eyes is looking

around like an iguana (tchh) focuses on Trinket,
(whoosh) goes to whip toward Trinket. That is

going to be a 24 versus his armor class.

LAURA: Oh, it hits!

MATT: Trinket takes 17 points of damage.

LAURA: Oh no!

MATT: Plus an additional five points of acid
damage.

LAURA: Trinket's unconscious!

MATT: As Trinket climbs up the wall, (shh, groan)
and then streaks and falls back down onto the

bone, unconscious.

SAM: Bear down!

ASHLEY: We'll heal him!

LAURA: Oh, no! He's lying in the skeletons.

MATT: So you're now there up top. What are you
going to do? You watched Trinket fall and hit the

ground.

ASHLEY: Kill him!

SAM: Not Trinket.

LAURA: Do I get to-- can I move if I attack, or is
that it?

MATT: You gave Trinket your move on this turn, so
you can still attack from where you are.

ASHLEY: Attack him!

LAURA: Will somebody save Trinket?

MARISHA: I'll save Trinket.

LAURA: Okay, then I still attack him. But wait,
will I do damage to Trinket, then, still on the

ground, unconscious?

MATT: What are you doing?

LAURA: Well, I was going to do Hail of Thorns, but
I shouldn't because he's within five feet?

MATT: Within five feet.

LIAM: You could do a regular arrow.

LAURA: All right, I do a regular flaming arrow.

MATT: You've used your flaming arrow twice.

LAURA: No, I only used it once.

MATT: No, you used it at the top of the round,
too.

LAURA: Shitballs. Okay, then I'm-- I have regular
arrows. I'm going to use Bloodseeking Bow, then.

MATT: Okay.

LAURA: Oh god. I'm freaking out.

MATT: Make your bloodseeking strike, now, with the
fury and anger and frustration--

LAURA: 26.

MATT: Hits.

LAURA: Okay.

ASHLEY: Roll for damage.

LAURA: 11, plus Hunter's Mark. 15. And then the
Bloodseeking Bow does ten bleeding damage each

round.

MATT: Nice. Okay, when we get back to its turn,
it'll have ten bleeding damage on it. You have

your second attack, too.

LAURA: Okay. 24.

MATT: 24 hits.

LAURA: That's 12. 13.

MATT: Okay. So both arrows (zoomf zoomf) sink
down. You can see your jaw's tense and you can feel

the tear running down your face, but you are
intent on taking this son of a bitch down. That

brings us to Tiberius. Actually, at the end of
your turn, go ahead and make a death saving throw.

For Trinket.

LAURA: Oh god.

SAM: Death saving throw?!

LIAM: Three successes or three fails. That's first
fail.

ASHLEY: Wait, what? No. I can add a plus ten,
right?

MATT: To a death saving throw?

LAURA: Not so much.

MATT: It has to be attacks for you, unfortunately.
So that's one death saving throw on Trinket.

Tiberius, what are you doing?

SAM: This is a grizzly situation!

ORION: Okay. I assess the situation, and I don't
like it.

SAM: The end.

ORION: No. I cast Watery Sphere on him, and try to
capture the guy in my sphere. That is-- oh, plus

this! (gasps) Oh my god, I always forget it's that
number. It's 27.

MATT: 27? All right.

ORION: 18 plus nine?

MATT: I'm just trying to get familiar with this
one real fast, guys.

MARISHA: So he uses his spell attack bonus, I'm
assuming?

MATT: Watery Sphere, you said?

ORION: Yeah. I was looking that up, too.

MATT: Watery Sphere. Got it here. Okay. Over the
edge, and ten feet-- okay, it's not an attack roll

for you. It has to make a strength saving throw.
Saving throw. That is a 21. What's the DC for your

spell?

ORION: 17.

MATT: Okay. So yeah. The sphere appears. The
creature is ejected from the side right there. So

the sphere is still there, but the creature is
un-grabbed by it.

ORION: Does it do damage?

MATT: As far as I know, it just grabs.

ORION: Ugh. All right. That's my bad, I shouldn't
have--

MATT: It restrains and grabs things inside when it
has them. It works more as control than as a

damaging spell, but the sphere is still there.

ORION: Well, fine. I can still move it, yes?

LAURA: Can you pick Trinket up and bring him up on
the wall?

ORION: She's got this. I'll move it over just to
make him all soak-y in it anyway. It's not going

to-- I can't move him. It doesn't control him,
right?

MATT: No, not if he makes the save. If he fails
the save, then yes, you have them trapped in the

sphere, but currently basically (sploosh) pushed
his way out of it.

ORION: Well, fine. I don't do that. I spend-- I
don't do anything, actually. That's my turn.

MATT: Okay. Vax, you're up.

LIAM: Okay, so Clarota's right by it, so I'm going
to roll along the back of the thing and sneak

attack right into its back.

MATT: Right here?

LIAM: Right there. Yeah, roll around next to him,
one dagger in. That is a 29.

MATT: 29. Yeah, that hits. Damn.

LIAM: (counts quietly) Okay, that is 33, plus
sneak attack damage, so three, seven. Shit. 18,

20. That's 40 plus four. 44.

MATT: Rogues, man.

LIAM: 51. I want to carve his shoulder blade out
and away like a piece of turkey--

MATT: It's not a critical.

LIAM: No. Critical's the double. Oh, sorry, scale
that back to--

MATT: That's a lot for a non-critical. Holy shit.
(laughs)

LIAM: 20. It was 20 plus two, 22. 29.

MATT: 29 points of damage. Still nice. So as you
reach back and you angrily take the dagger and

drag it down, you actually find one of those seams
of its arm, and you drag it across the front as

the arm actually (floop) falls off on the ground
and it squirms on its own.

ASHLEY: What's taking this thing so long?

MATT: You've managed to pull one of its tentacles
off.

LIAM: Next dagger's out. That was a bad roll, but
I'm going to use one of my Lucks to do that again.

That hits. That's 27.

MATT: Okay.

LIAM: So that is seven points of damage.

MATT: Okay.

LIAM: Last dagger out. That's 26, for eight points
of damage.

MATT: Nice. Eight points of damage, got it.
Great!

ASHLEY: How is this thing not dead?!

MATT: Kima is going to rush around here.

MARISHA: Don't be stupid, Kima!

SAM: What is it with you and Kima?

MARISHA: She's been stupid, all right?

LAURA: What are you talking about? She's a
paladin!

SAM: She's fighting with us! Don't dispirit her
while we're fighting!

LIAM: This is really awkward for the rest of us,
just so you know. We really like her.

MATT: Kima's going to attack twice with her
greatsword.

MARISHA: I don't like her.

SAM: I don't like her either, but I'm not openly
hostile to her.

MATT: Kima goes to strike twice, but with each
blade strike, the head glimpses over, sees the

attack and the body bends out of the way of the
first strike. The second one, a tentacle actually

slaps the blade out of her hand and she has to
reach over and pick it up again off the side of

the ground. The blind was very effective these
past couple of rounds, but now it's back to its

full strength and can see, and you can see now
that it can see where everyone is, it's going to

be much harder to hit. Unless you're this guy and
this girl. That brings us to Clarota. Clarota

can't use what Clarota wants to do, unfortunately.
Instead, is going to--

ASHLEY: What does Clarota want to do?

TALIESIN: Dance.

ASHLEY AND LAURA: Dance!

MATT: You've had it used on you before. It's
called a Mind Blast that the mind flayers did

before in a cone attack that can stun things in
front of it. But everyone's been clustered around

it, so Clarota can't quite get a place that
doesn't affect somebody else. So instead he's

going to do a tentacle attack against it. That
is-- oh, wow! That's a 26. That hits! Takes 15

points of damage and is grappled by Clarota.
Clarota currently has his tentacles wrapped up

onto it and is trying to pull it down with a
combination of psionic energy and its tentacle

grab. Keyleth, you're up!

MARISHA: Seeing that Clarota just grappled him,
I'm like, "All right, cool. That's good." And I'm

going to use a Grasping Vine from the other
stalactite and grab Trinket and see if I can--

LAURA: Around his waist!

MARISHA: Okay. Around his waist.

MATT: All right. You use another 4th-level
Grasping Vine?

MARISHA: Yeah.

MATT: Okay. So the Grasping Vine-- from this one
here?

MARISHA: Nope, that one.

MATT: Okay. The wall is here, so it's going to
have to curl around the side, wrap around the

body. As it begins to pull, you can see the bones
have already begun to reach up and begun to start

pulling Trinket's body down. Go ahead and make the
check for that again which is...

MARISHA: What is it?

TALIESIN: Will.

MARISHA: Oh, will?

MATT: For this one I think it was to try and--
wait a sec, I'm just making sure. I think it was

wisdom for the-- Let me check it real fast, just
to make sure. This is starting to get down to the

heavy. "Creature must make dexterity saving throw
to resist pull." Yeah, so go ahead and make a

willpower check. Wisdom check, sorry.

MARISHA: 20 again.

MATT: The vine wraps around Trinket and begins to
pull. The bones hold tight and the body is not

moving from its position.

LAURA: No!

MATT: It's a standoff between the vine holding the
unconscious body of Trinket, who you can see is

still moving and shifting in unconsciousness. The
bones are beginning to rise up almost like this

slow tide to begin to wrap over the body. All
right, that brings us to Percy.

ASHLEY: Wait, so we don't know?

MATT: It's at a standoff right now.

MARISHA: It's a standoff. It's tug-of-war.

MATT: Yeah. Not sinking, but not being pulled out,
either. It's this stalemate right now between the

two. The vine is taut and holding Trinket level.

TALIESIN: Okay, I'm going to spend my movement to
get nice and firm, sit myself down, pull out the

big gun.

MATT: Okay. Bad News. You see it over this wall
now. The top of this stalagmite-- it's about 50

feet to the top. You get to the top, you pull the
Bad News out. You have a pretty clear shot down

towards the entity.

TALIESIN: Taking a sharpshooter shot. Natural 20
on the first shot.

(all cheer)

MATT: Go ahead and roll damage for this one.

TALIESIN: This is going to be so much fun. (counts
out loud) 42 points of damage.

MATT: How do you want to do this?

(all cheer)

TALIESIN: I take a bead and I want to wait until
the eye is looking right at me, and I want to take

it right through the eye.

MATT: Okay. So as the entity turns around, its
head cocked to the side, its tendrils (sucking

noise) flailing around it, one lifting it up. You
can see, it begins to reach up to bring a lash

down upon the bear that is being clasped on the
ground, its eye streaks around and catches yours.

You release, pull back on the trigger... (gunshot)
The impact blows you off the top of the

stalagmite. You fall in the air, but in that split
second, you keep your vision on as you're floating

back and this whole-- this moment as time slows,
not wanting to lose this moment, you see the

bullet (ssst) into the head. One of the eyes now
goes dark from the crimson impact. The jaw opens

slack (groaning), with all the teeth exposing as
the back of the head (explosion).

TALIESIN: (maniacal laughter)

MATT: Explodes. All across Vax. Who was standing
behind it, just (vrushh)

LIAM: I love it!

(all laugh)

MATT: The giant hole now, which is like you can
see portions of its lower jaw are still visible,

but the entire top of its head is gone. You can
see parts of its flesh trying to reach up and

re-form, and then starting falling limp as its
form begins to quiver and eventually fall apart.

The seams all begin to unravel and its entire body
begins to fall apart into chunks. Eventually

what's left is this elven torso that slinks to its
knees (boof), takes a step,takes another step, and

then falls onto its back, completely destroyed.
The bones begin to reach up and take its body.

Trinket is still currently being held aloft.

ORION: I see what's going on. I cast Telekinesis
(fssh) and start pulling it up.

MATT: Okay, make an arcana check. You have
advantage on this because the Grasping Vine is

also helping.

ORION: Oh my god. Arcana? 12.

MATT: 12? You (strains) you're pulling, you're
pulling, you're pulling, but unfortunately

whatever cursed force holds this land is keeping
the body--

ASHLEY: Okay, I run up and take the Mace of
Disruption, which also has the holy oil on it,

which fights against undead! So I take it and I go
(ffff) right underneath.

MATT: All right. Pike, you're on top of the wall.
You look down and see this happening with the

effort of both of them unable to do so. You leap
off the top of the wall, swinging the Mace of

Disruption down in a giant arc. You slam it into
the bones on the side of Trinket's body. As you

do, you see the actual stone and bones around it
cave in and shatter into dust at the sheer force

of your Mace of Disruption, leaving this big old
cavernous space where there once was ground. As

you bring it up again, you begin swinging it
around the outside of Trinket, releasing all of

the bone in the vicinity. As you do, you also
notice that the bone at your feet that's beginning

to grab onto your legs as you landed begins to
give away and slowly back away from you.

MARISHA: Grab onto the vine!

LIAM: It's scared of her.

ASHLEY: It's scared of me. Yeah, that's right!

LAURA: Get Trinket out, and I'll pull Pike up.

MARISHA: Okay, I pull the bear out.

MATT: Between the two of you guys, you manage to,
now that it's been released from the bone, as

Tiberius (strains) lifts up and the vine grasping,
you lift Trinket up onto the wall, and Tiberius

you (thud) release Trinket on the top of the
wall.

LAURA: I'm healing! Giving a healing potion.

MARISHA: Can I take my Grasping Vine and I want to
reach out and grab the elven man real quick.

MATT: You reach out the Grasping Vine and you lift
up the remnants of the elven man.

MARISHA: Yeah?

MATT: Yeah.

MARISHA: And I want to throw his remnants back
onto our dance floor.

MATT: Okay. Well, the dance floor-- the wall here?
So you chuck the corpse up onto the stone wall.

All right, so you've all gathered around, you
administer a potion. Trinket heals-- which potion

are you using?

LAURA: The minimum, because someone else can heal
him, right?

ASHLEY: Yeah.

MATT: Yeah, yeah. That'll be 2d4 + 2.

LAURA: Seven. He's only got seven little health
points!

MATT: All right, so Trinket comes to
consciousness. (bear moan)

LAURA: Trinket!

MATT: As soon as it opens up and the first thing
Trinket sees is your face, Trinket begins to lick

the side of your face.

LAURA: Oh! (sobs) Buddy! I'm crying and I'm
petting him and I say, "It's okay."

MATT: Kima, Clarota, and Vax. You guys are still
on the ground. You can feel the stones and bones

beginning to pull up against your feet. Clarota
immediately begins to lift off the ground using

his Levitation ability, and pulls free of the
bones, lifts there for a second. Yes?

ASHLEY: Can I keep propellering my Mace of
Disruption as I walk? On the ground?

MATT: You can. As you're walking along, you're
just (kssh) hitting bits of bone. As you are, they

just disintegrate and turn into dust. It's leaving
a track. A little bit of a groove in the ground as

you do so.

ASHLEY: Follow me! Follow the track!

MARISHA: I'm going to loot this corpse real quick.
See if I see anything with this.

MATT: Make an investigation check.

MARISHA: With this corpse. Does anyone want to
help me? Who's got better investigation?

TALIESIN AND SAM: Sure.

LAURA: I've got it, but I'm busy with Trinket.

MARISHA: Ugh, yeah.

TALIESIN: Yeah, never mind.

SAM: I've got it. 24.

MATT: 24? All right.

MARISHA: Scanlan!

MATT: You start looking at it, and the clothes
that are on it are soiled and destroyed and are

just ruined by whatever process it went through.
as you inspect the shoulders where the tentacles

are, you start seeing these strange little fleshy
nubs, and as you pull away at where the wounds

were taken from pulling off, you can see there are
arms inside the torso that were pushed inside to

attach this entity.

ASHLEY: Can we--

MATT: Can you what?

ASHLEY: Go ahead. Sorry.

MATT: You can see a couple of fingers poking out
of each side.

ASHLEY: Should we take the body?

SAM: Do we see any ligatures? Is there sewing? Or
has it been stitched together?

MATT: The tentacles were stitched to it, and you
can't see any actual stitches, like it's this

weird thing where it's actually bonded to it, but
it looks like some sort of strange--

ORION: I'll do an arcana check on that, and I
already got 22.

MATT: Okay. There is a magical essence from
somewhere in the torso, but you can't quite

ascertain--

MARISHA: From somewhere in the torso?

MATT: Yes.

LAURA: Do we recognize this elf at all?

MATT: (laughs) You don't recognize any of its face
because it's gone. Bad News disintegrated its

head. Unless you want to piece all the pieces that
are currently on Vax together and try to reform

the face, but from what you can tell it wasn't
anything you could recognize necessarily.

SAM: I'll take out my dagger and dig into his
torso.

MATT: As you (squishy flesh sounds) begin to pull
out bits, the rest of you guys manage to make your

way up to the top of this stone wall now. You're
all for the most part safe, for the time being.

TALIESIN: Thank you for that.

MATT: Sorry. You cut through the body. You start
seeing there are just layers and layers of teeth

growing out of all portions in the interior of it.
You find the fingers are attached to a hand, which

are attached to a wrist. You pull a little bit,
and with this horrible sickening (fssht) sound you

manage to pull an arm out from inside the torso,
covered in its own blood and fluids.

ORION: Prestidigitation! Clean that up.

MATT: You clean it off. The magical essence you
were seeing earlier actually is coming from a set

of metallic bracers that are on the wrists.

SAM: Take them! I take them.

MATT: Okay.

LAURA: Don't put them on, though. Don't put them
on.

ORION: I'll inspect them.

LIAM: They're cursed.

MATT: Okay. Make an arcana check.

ORION: Let's see. 13.

MATT: 13? It takes you a while, but you manage to
get an idea of what the essence of the magic is.

MARISHA: I think it's for you, Vex.

LAURA: Oh, really? Let me see it.

ORION: Translated, it's Bracers of Archery. You
should check it out.

ASHLEY: Can I cast Cure Wounds on Trinket? And I
cast him to 20. Second level. I rolled.

MATT: You rolled a 20 total?

ASHLEY: Yeah. 20 total.

MATT: Okay. So Trinket heals 20 more hit points.

LAURA: Oh, yay! Really?

MATT: So keep tabs on that because that will carry
over into the next session. All right. So you guys

are now standing aloft, on the wall. You can
barely see past, about another 120, 150 feet ahead

of you, the sea of bone chips and glass seems to
eventually fade into more stone.

MARISHA: Let's get out of here.

SAM: Hey, will you lead the way, Pike, with your
crazy mace path?

LIAM: Air guitar us out of here?

ASHLEY: Can I keep on? (guitar noises)

ORION: Actually, wait a minute. Hold on a sec. My
water sphere is still there, isn't it? I'm going

to take it and push it along our way as well, in
front of her who's swinging it as well.

MATT: Okay.

ORION: Push it up to 30 feet.

MATT: So you're pushing this behind her?

ORION: In front of her. Just a nice little (pssht)
like 30 feet from where we are.

MATT: Okay. So the sphere crests ahead as you guys
push forward. Pike, you're taking your mace of

disruption with your shield up and you're slamming
it before you. As it does there's just plumes of

dust that are being cast in the air behind you
guys. You cough a little bit as it's lifting the

small spray of dust. You begin to make your way
across this open field of bone and glass to the

other side, finding for the first time in a little
bit of time solid stone ground. You all take a

moment and gather your breath, and as you're
taking a moment, you look over and you can see in

the darkness ahead of you what looks to be a faint
source of light around another large pillar or

cluster of stone in the distance.

ASHLEY: Is it a color?

LAURA: Do I see any tracks around?

MATT: It's reddish-orange and appears to have a
flicker to it.

LAURA: Do I see tracks? Can I sense goliath
tracks?

MATT: Go ahead and roll a survival check.

SAM: How far away is it from us?

MATT: It's probably about 70, 80 feet.

LAURA: 25.

MATT: 25? You see more duergar feet patterns, and
you see those same singular tracks.

LIAM: And you said it's flickering, the light?

MATT: Yes.

LIAM: Probably a campfire.

SAM: Let's go kick some ass.

MARISHA: Want to go see?

LIAM: I'll go take a look.

MATT: Roll stealth.

MARISHA: Take a short rest there.

SAM: Do we need it? Is anyone hurt?

MARISHA: Just a short one.

LIAM: 25.

MATT: 25?

LIAM: Everyone rest while I go peek, because I'm
fine.

SAM: We don't need rest for spells, we just need
rest for health, right?

MARISHA: Just a short rest, yeah, so I can
recharge my animal changes.

ASHLEY: If we take a short rest, do we get any
spells back?

MATT: No spells back, unfortunately. You guys stay
back while you go ahead and stealth your way up.

Did you roll disadvantage on that one?

LIAM: Disadvantage?

SAM: Your foot.

LAURA: Because of your foot!

LIAM: But the cloak then cancels it out.

MATT: That's right, yes, so you're fine. It's a
natural roll.

LIAM: So 25.

MATT: 25, okay. So you make your way through the
darkness, around the side of the stone platform

and as you crest your vision, you can see the
flickering is indeed a small campfire. Not used

for light, but apparently used for cooking as the
scent also hits you. There is some sort of meat

currently being cooked on this flame.

LIAM: Does it smell good?

MATT: It smells pretty good. You're not quite sure
what the source of the meat is. You worry for a

second because you see the two duergar that are
sitting there, currently holding the meat in the

center of this, are staying next to a giant troll
who has his hand on the side of a rickety wooden

cart. On this cart, which you can see, there are
two sets of wheels on each side, there is a large

lumbering goliath individual currently held down
with bands of iron.

Your mind for second thinks, "Oh god, are they
eating him?" but you see he appears to be intact,

though with a quick glance as you peer around the
other side of the stone column, you can see his

body is riddled with scratches and small wounds
and incisions, and you can see where streaks of

dried blood are across his entire body.

LAURA: They're going to try to make him into one
of the stitch monsters!

MARISHA: Yes, they are.

LAURA: We're not there.

MATT: You also do see, across the way there are
three tents set up around this area. One of the

tents opens up and you see a duergar female step
out: silver circlet across her forehead, long

robes. Queen Ulara walks up and starts talking to
the other duergar, pointing to your goliath

friend, to Grog, on the front of this. Motions to
the other two and steps back into the tent,

closing it behind her as the two other duergar
grin. One reaches into his pouch and begins to

pull out small, looks like metal hooked utensils,
possibly to go in for another round of whatever

they'd been doing.

ASHLEY: I'm going to kill that bitch!

LIAM: Into my earring, (whispers) Come, now.

ORION: Ooh! Vax just said we should go!

LAURA: (whispers) We should go!

MATT: And this is where we're going to end today's
session.

(all groan)

SAM: Wow. That was exciting, and I feel empowering
to a lot of the female--

(all laugh)

ORION: Female viewers, absolutely.

SAM: Pike did a lot of important things.

ORION: Absolutely, I would agree.

ZAC: Hola, everybody!

ALL: Hola!

ZAC: (sighs) That was intense again! You guys are
giving me anxiety attacks, you guys and Felicia

being in the chat room the whole time. So I wanted
to shout out some thank yous. Oh, and you guys

still have time if you scroll down on the main
page to 826LA donate button, click on that and

donate for these guys, for the wonderful work that
they're doing, and we're getting ready to read out

all of your donation messages on the stream.

MATT: Yes, thank you guys so much for donating to
826LA. They're an amazing charity and your support

is very much appreciated.

ZAC: First off, we wanted to thank a couple people
that provided the food for tonight.

ALL: Yeah!

ZAC: ManaGeek Moosiyuk, Moosiuk?

MATT: Moosiuk! ManaGeek! Thank you guys!

ZAC: And Timothy Hudson and Amir.

MATT: Thank you, Amir!

LAURA: It was so good!

ZAC: Donation messages...

MATT: Just a note, guys, good choice tonight on
the abyssal abomination.

LAURA: Oh, they did that?!

ZAC: That was the chat room.

LAURA: You did that?!

MARISHA: They did, yeah...

ASHLEY: Chat room!

LAURA: That was mean!

TALIESIN: You almost killed a bear.

ZAC: Okay, guys. We've got a lot of these. You
ready? We've got AxisOfAnarchy. "Less than three

"Matt, Taliesin, Ashley, Marisha, Laura, Liam,
Orion, and Sam. #FindGrog."

ORION: We did!

LIAM: We found him.

ZAC: Vorack1024. "Glad to donate every week for
such a good cause. Critical Role is an inspiration

"to my entire D&D party, and watching helps my
DMing greatly. Thank you so much."

ASHLEY: Oh, man. Yay, thank you!

MATT: That's awesome.

ZAC: Meg_TheDreamer. "#CriticalRole, thank you so
much for everything with"-- oh gosh, these are so

hard to read-- "with amazing stories, adventures,
and great senses of humor that brings happiness

"and makes me laugh and warms my heart. Thank you
so much for the love, my art, oh, twitter

"@TheAnimeDreamer and my birthday wishes to Meghan
L."

TALIESIN: Oh, Meghan! Yay!

MARISHA: Thanks for all your art, Meghan. Your
art's great.

ZAC: ZandorInvictus. "Made the easy decision to
skip the midnight showing of Avengers to catch the

"show. #LessThanThree."

MATT: Aw!

TALIESIN: Easy decision!

ZAC: You're a better man than Grog! I also suggest
all of you guys hit up Twitter and give Travis

some shit.

MATT: Playfully loving shit because the movie's
awesome and it's great.

LAURA: Yeah, loving shit.

ORION: Follow us on Twitter, and then help us.

ZAC: Let him know that Overlord says he's in
trouble. BeansyMccoy. "No, but seriously, I need a

"shirt that says 'how do you want to do this?'"

ASHLEY: I know.

SAM: We're working on it.

ORION: Yeah, we're working on it.

ZAC: OutdatedReference. "About to run my first
session of D&D this Sunday. Thanks to you guys for

"the inspiration, so excited."

(all cheer)

MATT: Make it happen!

ORION: Good luck!

MATT: May your dice roll 20s and TPK your party.

ZAC: WTSFox, thank you. TonyLoneFight. "You are
all so amazing, thank you so much for sharing

"this, I hope this donation helps."

MARISHA: It does. Thank you Tony!

ZAC: UselessRogue--

MATT: UselessRogue, yeah! What's up?

ASHLEY: Hey! You're not useless!

MARISHA: (shouting) UselessRogue!

MATT: "Assuaging my guilt over my vote in the
straw-poll tonight." I thought you chose well.

That was a fun fight.

ZAC: Yeah. SilentKagosha. "Critical Role: adding a
cave-effect to the audio when you are in the cave

"adds an interesting atmosphere to the show."

MATT: Awesome! Thank you!

ZAC: That's what they did. He kept saying that in
the chatroom and I was like, "I wish I could do

"that for you but I can't do anything about that."
Too much work! BrrCold donated. "For Zac Eubank and all

"that he does." Aw, thanks, Curt! Appreciate that.

ASHLEY: Thanks Curt!

ZAC: G1BigDaddyHef. "Working retail can be
draining and I want to thank you so much for

"inspiring me and brightening my day. Currently
working on creating a new campaign to try and get

"my coworkers involved in. I'm happy to lend some
money to help out the 826LA charity."

MATT: Aw, thank you so much!

MARISHA: We've been there in retail, and we feel
your pain

ZAC: Kedofett101. "If I can help such a great
cause with a donation, the way..." Gosh, it's a

lot, sorry. "If I can help with such a great cause
with a donation, the way you wonderful people help

"me, then I'll give what I can. Thank you so much
for bringing a smile to my face with your amazing

"work and the awesomeness that is Critical Role.
Love you guys."

MATT: Thank you so much.

ORION: Thanks bud, I'll take all the credit for
that one.

TALIESIN: Yeah.

MATT: Yeah.

ZAC: Resident Ogre. CritKarma.

MARISHA: CritKarma!

ZAC: KatyaisaLie. Thank you.

ORION: Thank you, Katya.

ZAC: VerCatJoel. "You guys are amazing. Thanks for
making this week more fun and wanting to help kids."

MATT: Thank you, VerCatJoel.

ZAC: GeoNerd79. "I love you guys. So many
emotions."

MATT: I feel you, GeoNerd!

MARISHA: (laughs) Thanks, GeoNerd!

MATT: I feel you.

ZAC: Poltergeist123. "#Lessthan3."

MATT: Thank you, Poltergeist.

MARISHA: Thanks, Poltergeist.

ORION: Thank you.

ZAC: And we're reloading to see who all has
donated since. Okay, some more. HomeGrownHero. "I

"just got here. I missed everything. Can I watch
tonight's show somewhere?" Yeah! If you're a sub,

it'll be up immediately. If you're not a sub,
we'll do a rebroadcast, and if you wait (whistles)

four hours from now, it'll probably be back in the
rotation, and by tomorrow afternoon it'll be up on

the website.

MARISHA: Geekandsundry.com.

ZAC: Correct. WheelyFactoids. "Liam, do you prefer
single- or double-edged blade, and Laura, what

"color is Trinket?"

LAURA: Trinket is brown.

LIAM: Double-edged.

ZAC: Bam! Factoids! Zofer. "Amazing show, and a
worthy cause."

MATT: Awesome. Thank you, Zofer.

ZAC: Aldowin. "Keep up the awesome work you're
doing."

MATT: Thank you Aldowin!

ORION: Thanks Aldowin.

TALIESIN: Thank you.

ZAC: TheFallenTitan: "Loving CritRole, keep it up."
Also, "Oh-ree-awn, are you going to make any more

"music videos with Alex Lewis?"

ORION: It's Orion, Zac.

ZAC: Orion!

ORION: Chatroom, accost him for that, please.

ZAC: (whispering) They spelled it wrong and I just
read it.

ORION: (laughing) Yeah! Actually, me and Alex
Lewis / I8athumbtack are doing more music videos

and funny stuff. Thank you for asking.

MARISHA: Yes.

ZAC: CheeseBug88 "LessThanThree."

MATT: CheeseBug!

MARISHA: CheeseBug!

ASHLEY: CheeseBug!

ZAC: ACrazyNexy "LessThanThree to the Critical
Role team."

MATT: Aw, thank you, CrazyNexy.

ZAC: Thank you guys so much. Just because we
didn't get a chance to read, please don't stop

donating. All you've got to do is scroll down to
donate to 856LA or they'll link it in the chat

room. Tune in tomorrow. We have Felicia Day
stopping by to play Lady Games, so everyone will

be dressed up in suits.

SAM: I'll be watching that! It's my favorite.

ORION: Absolutely. He watches it all the time.

ZAC: We're playing Ladies and Gentlemen, and there
might be some gender reversal going on in that,

and we're also going to be doing a new card game that
was just Kickstarted with Indicade, and we have

musical guest Echo Sparks coming by, as well as So
You Don't Have To with Hector and Becca. We will

be doing some things to them that are not very
polite, and making them play pony games because we

have a lot of pony Steam keys to give away.

MARISHA: Interesting.

ASHLEY: Ponies!

MARISHA: Everyone, Matt and I recently did another
Hot Pepper Gaming video. Another Hot Pepper Game

review, so, go check it out on Youtube at
HotPepperGaming. They're super fun.

LAURA: They completely keep their composure.

MATT: Oh, totally.

TALIESIN: They don't break.

MARISHA: Chat room should start pressuring these
guys to all do one.

TALIESIN: What? No.

ORION: I've already put my request into Hot
Pepper--

LAURA: I want to do it!

MARISHA: He's done one before.

ORION: I've done one before. I think I had the
grossest HotPepperGaming.

LAURA: Just snot running out of my face. I want to
do it!

LIAM: I do not.

ZAC: They want me to show you while we're live,
Ashley, the emote that they made for you.

LAURA: I saw it! It's so cute!

ASHLEY: You guys made me an emote!

MARISHA: They made an emote for Ashley?

ZAC: Start post. She's watching the chat room
guys, so just start...

MARISHA: What is it? Wait, I want to see it! Pull
up the chat room!

LAURA: Is she an astronaut? That's what it looked
like.

LIAM: Is it a pony suit, is it Spider Gwen? What's
she wearing?

ZAC: It's an astronaut.

LAURA: It's an astronaut, Ashley!

ASHLEY: Oh! Come on guys! That's awesome!

MARISHA: Astronaut Ashley!

ASHLEY: Oh, what the heck!

TALIESIN: There it is. Oh my god! That's so cute.

MARISHA: (laughs) Wait, there it is! Oh my god,
that's amazing!

TALIESIN: They're like little Buzz Lightyears!

MATT: That's fantastic! Well done, guys.

ZAC: Thank you guys for tuning in.

MATT: Thank you guys so much. Have a wonderful
night. We'll see you next week!

ALL: Bye!