MATT: Hello, and welcome to this evening's episode
of Critical Role! We'll be with you in just a

second. Unfortunately we're down a Travis
Willingham tonight, but in Grog's stead we have

the rest of the party venturing forth into the Emberhold after
just recently discovering Lady Kima. We shall see

what happens very shortly, but in the meantime,
let's go ahead and

give you guys some character backstory.

[dramatic music]

ASHLEY: Pike grew up on the outskirts of town,
near the Bramblewood. Her ancestors were a family

of deep gnomes with quite an unfavorable
reputation. Thievery, destruction, and trickery

left them with the curse of the last name
Trickfoot. Sarenrae, the goddess of healing and

redemption, had other plans for Pike's
great-great-grandfather Wilhand, who left his

family at a young age after a dream, a dream that
changed the course of the Trickfoot family.

Wilhand devoted his life to Sarenrae, and pledged
from then on that him and his family would live a

life of service and devotion. As a child, Pike
seemed to have an affinity to heal. Whether it was

animals, people, or even flowers, she felt she had
a purpose in making things whole that had once

been broken. She studied and learned the ways to
heal through divine magic. She lived a peaceful

life, quiet and simple, until one day Wilhand was
captured and almost killed by a group of goliath

barbarians. One of the goliaths took a stand
against the murder of the innocent gnome, and he

himself was beaten, bloodied, and left for dead,
abandoned by his herd. Wilhand went to Pike for

help. She prayed and healed this barbarian as best
she could, bringing him back to life. When he

awoke, she discovered his name was Grog Strongjaw.
After that, they were the best of friends, a

rather unlikely pair. Little did she know that in
a few years' time Grog would soon return the favor

and bring her back from the clutches of death.
(roaring, crunch) After being killed in battle,

Pike felt angry. She wanted to be stronger so that
it would never happen again. She spent four months

at sea, training with the men and women aboard a
ship called the Broken Howl. Gripping her holy

symbol in one hand, and her morningstar in the
other, this time, Pike is ready.

TRAVIS: Right, listen up! If you have ale, then
you have a friend in Grog Strongjaw. A goliath of

towering height and size, this barbarian has an
appetite for the two great loves in his life:

combat, women, and ale. Wait... Easily the brains
of the group, Grog is often consulted for his vast

knowledge of shapes, colors, and shiny things.
Also ale. In his early years, armed with his

two-handed great axe, Grog often enjoyed proving
his might amongst the ranks of his family's

wandering herd. But after coming upon an
unsuspecting elderly gnome in the woods, he

objected to the killing of such an innocent life.
A creature of impulse, Grog felt only pity for

this terrified little thing. His disobedience cost
him dearly. Beaten bloody and banished by the herd

leader, his uncle Kevdak, Grog was abandoned and
left to die. Exiled from his herd, it was then

that the relative of the very gnome he fought to
save, saved him. It was the kindness of a gnome

cleric named Pike that healed Grog, bringing him
back from death's edge. And they have remained

close friends ever since. Most nights, Grog can be
found challenging entire taverns to wrestling

matches! Or accompanying Scanlan to the nearest
house where you pay for lady favors. Also ale.

MARISHA: A first impression of Keyleth would leave
you with little information on the half-elven

druid. You might even think that her social
awkwardness due to her sheltered upbringing is

kind of sweet. Of course, it would be unwise to
underestimate her based on first impressions.

Under that unintimidating petite frame is a
vicious beast waiting to be unleashed, whose

natural powers have made even the fiercest of
champions pee their pants. Literally. (laughs)

Born to the Air tribe of the Ashari people,
Keyleth was raised with a deep love of nature and

the elemental magics. It is her people's inherent
duty to protect the delicate areas in Tal'Dorei,

where the four elemental planes begin to bleed
with this realm. Since she was a little girl, she

had quite a knack for air manipulation and
beast-shaping abilities. Well, if you consider

kittens and flying squirrels to be little beasts.
Which, I do. Anyways, it wasn't long before the

headmaster of the tribe, her father, Korren,
realized her true prodigious abilities and she was

inveterated to succeed him as the next headmaster.
Just like that, her jovial childhood was stripped

and replaced with endless spell memorization,
teachings from ancient traditions, and exceedingly

high expectations. Every druid leader to be must
embark on a journey to seek out the sister tribes

in order to introduce and establish respect
amongst the fellow headmasters. They call this the

Aramente, or Noble Odyssey. When her father felt
she was ready, he set her on the path to truly

discovering herself, not knowing when, or if she
will ever return. As she hiked down the mountain

towards Stillben, she meditated on the task ahead.
Part of the Aramente is proving yourself a strong

warrior, a valiant protector, and a wise and
compassionate leader. With this knowledge, one

thought plays in repeat in her mind: is she even
worthy?

TALIESIN: Percy was the third of seven
children, born to a noble family who lived far to

the north, in the ancient castle of Whitestone.
With so many siblings to share the burdens of

lordship, Percy turned his attentions to the
sciences, engineering and naturalism. One day, a

mysterious couple, named Lord and Lady Briarwood,
came to court. During a feast held in their honor,

the Briarwoods violently took control of the
castle, killing or imprisoning everyone who would

stand in their way. Percy awoke chained in the
dungeon, only to be freed by his younger sister.

Together they fled, chased by the Briarwoods' men.
As they ran, Percy's sister took several arrows to

the chest and fell. Percy kept running, eventually
jumping into a freezing river and floating

unconscious to freedom. He did not remember waking
up on a fishing boat. He barely remembered the

next two years, as he slowly made his way as far
south as possible. Then, one night, Percy had a

dream. A roaring cloud of smoke offered him
vengeance against those who destroyed his family.

When he awoke, Percy began to design his first
gun. (gunshot)

SAM: Oh, you haven't heard of Scanlan Shorthalt?
Well, gird your loins, ladies, because he has his

eye on you. A talented musician, master of
disguise, and dashingly handsome in his own mind,

Scanlan sings songs almost as much as he sings his
own praises. Born a poor gnome, Scanlan used his

endless charm and soaring tenor voice to croon for
coin and support his single mother. One day he was

discovered by a half-orc promoter, and joined Dr.
Dranzel's Spectacular Traveling Troupe where he

learned the ways of the world, and honed his
skills as a bard extraordinaire. A loner much of

his life, Scanlan has never quite come to terms
with the violent death of his mother at the hands

of a goblin invasion. While his years on the road
provided many, shall we say, educational

experiences with the opposite sex, deep down
Scanlan yearns for the one thing he's never known:

the true love of a fellow gnome. Still, Scanlan
considers himself a lover first, performer second,

and fighter distant third. On the battlefield,
he'll support his allies, but rarely draws blood

unless it's to protect fellow gnome, Pike. Count
on Scanlan for a hearty laugh, a rollicking song,

and a twinkle in his eye that melts hearts and
makes the females swoon.

ORION: Greetings and salutations. I am Tiberius
Stormwind. I hail from a town called Ty'rex,

located in the heart of Draconia, born from a
politically respected family. At the age of 15, I

succeeded in passing the Sorcerer's Rite, showing
prodigy-like control of my magic. The judges and

the Draconian High Council were amazed at how
powerful my spells were for how long I had been

training. At 20 years old, I was the youngest
appointed member of the Magic Guild in Draconian

history. For the next few years, I almost went mad
from the malaise of being a guild member, as it's

rather boring. However, one day I happened upon a
chamber, unused for quite some time. In the room

were stacks of books and maps of the surrounding
cities and areas around the known world. For

months I would frequent the chamber, and learned
of artifacts from legend. After a long period of

research, I made a list of artifacts that caught
my eye. I brought these findings to the high

council and was told that all of the information
in the chamber I had stumbled upon was either

believed to be fiction, or unsolvable mysteries,
and hence were lost forever. I found those answers

to be unacceptable. A year later I devised a ruse
and managed to convince the city council to lend

support in me leaving Draconia on a mission of
peace and diplomacy for the surrounding kingdoms,

going from town to town and making friends and
allies, in and for the name of Draconia. Being a

red dragonborn, I had quite the task on my hands
in that respect, but it was exactly what I needed,

so I could explore the world and find these
artifacts, as I felt the truth was out there. Some

may describe me as buffoonish, but I say poppycock
to all that. I am much sharper than most give me

credit for. I just don't pay attention to things
sometimes. I've also been known to be rather

cunning, loyal, happy-go-lucky, and well,
dangerous. I can't help but show my true scales

every now and then. But overall, I think I'm quite
friendly for a dragonborn.

LIAM: Never entirely welcome in the company of
elves or men, Vax'ildan learned at a young age to

skip past formality, preferring instead to invite
himself in your door. Along with twin sister

Vex'ahlia, Vax was born by a chance encounter
between elven royalty and human peasantry. Raised

by their mother in their early years, the twins
were eventually sent off to their father in the

elven capital of Syngorn, but their cool reception
among the elves there never warmed, and their time

in the capital didn't last. The siblings stole
away one autumn night and set out on the open

road. After a few years of wandering, they
eventually decided to return to their mother, and

journeyed back to the lands of their youth. But
instead of finding their childhood home, they

returned to a pile of rubble. Their mother was
gone, their home burned to ash. Pressing the

townspeople for answers, they learned of the day
the dragon came. With their ties all severed,

Vax'ildan and his sister set out to find their
fortune together in Tal'Dorei. An outsider since

birth, Vax quickly learned to solve life's
challenges in his own particular way, often by

sidestepping them entirely. And when his knack for
circumventing adversity isn't enough, the way of

blades the elves schooled him in more than makes
up the difference.

LAURA: Like so many half-elves, Vex'ahlia has
spent most of her life suffering the cool

reception of a people who don't fully accept her.
Born of a human mother and an elven father who

only later in life took an interest in their
existence, Vex'ahlia and her twin brother

Vax'ildan quickly realized the only people they
could truly rely on in this world were each other.

It was at the age of ten when the two were taken
from their mother, and brought to live in Syngorn,

the isolated elven city for which their father was
an ambassador. He quietly took them in, but always

kept an icy distance, and after too many years of
disdainful looks, the pair decided to leave his

indifference behind, and set out on their own. Vax
took to the cities, stealing small trinkets and

learning the ways of the thief, while Vex kept to
the woods. She preferred the isolation. Always the

keen observer, she learned to hunt and to track,
to spy and to shoot. And through a series of

fateful events, earned herself a companion in the
form of a bear, her own stolen Trinket, to fight

alongside her and protect her fiercely. Also, he
is adorable, and gives expert massages.

[dramatic music]

MATT: Hello everyone, and welcome back to the next
episode of Critical Role. We unfortunately are

down one Grog this evening, as I mentioned
before.

ALL: (distressed noises)

MATT: We are missing him terribly. We'll see what
terrors will transpire in his absence. However,

though! We do have some fun things to announce
real fast: first off, we're still giving away

promo kits for every 50 subscribers we get, so
we'll be having those randomly drawn from everyone

in the chat room every time 50 subscribers are
joined to the channel, I guess you would say.

Also, every ten subscribers we're giving away
Steam keys for different games, so also cool

giveaways, which is kind of fun. I want to take a
moment also to mention our... charity, there,

that's the word I was looking for, it's been a
long day.

(laughter)

MATT: Our charity, 826LA, which we're putting up
links in the chat room for you guys if you're

able to donate. It's a fantastic program that
tutors children, helps with creative writing and

general literacy skills. It's a wonderful program,
you can look it up at 826LA, you should Google it,

find the website, it has all the information you
need. It's a really great charity and we're still

pushing that through our show every week, so thank
you for all who have donated, and if you have the

opportunity to, I highly recommend it. Also! I
wanted to let you guys know we have-- Marisha

wants to mention a cool sponsor tonight or at
least a promotional push we're pushing.

MARISHA: Yes! Yes! Friends of the show, Espionage
Cosmetics, hooked us all up with some awesome

nerdy manicures. We'll tweet pictures of our
nails, so yes, we're all wearing awesome nails and

we're going to be doing a giveaway from Espionage.
Their tabletop bath bombs,

which are awesome d20s--

MATT: d10s, technically.

MARISHA: Oh, d10s-- No, there's a d20! There's a
d10 and there's a percentile die!

MATT: No, you're right! I saw the wrong side of
it, my apologies. Forget I said anything.

MARISHA: So yes, and we'll probably also go ahead
and throw in a Critical Role signed picture as

well with this. What you have to do is tweet
@EspionageMakeup, is their twitter,

@EspionageMakeup and #CriticalRole, and tell them
what your favorite character is from Critical Role

and who your favorite nail wraps are today and then
we'll pick at half-time a winner.

MATT: Indeed. So fantastic. I may have some more
stuff down the road we'll be able to talk about

but in the meantime, let's go ahead and get
everyone caught up to speed with what has transpired

recently on Critical Role. So the party, to give
you a quick overview for those who have just

joined us, they were given a mission to seek out a
female halfling paladin named Lady Kima of Vord,

who had been missing, going on a vision quest,
apparently seeking some deep, dark evil that had

begun to simmer and grow beneath the dwarven city
of Kraghammer. The party managed to make their way

to the city, delve deep within its caverns to
discover an entire series of caves, and what

eventually led to the Underdark itself. A
subterranean landscape of terror and darkness.

After a series of battles with some duergar, which
are kinda ashy-skinned evil dwarven offshoot

people, characters, and a few brushes with some
illithids or mind flayer creatures, they managed

to befriend one, or I should say, ally with one
named Clarota. Who has been traveling with them,

who has apparently been kicked away from his
society and wishes reentry to save them from the

kind of ominous presence of this unseen, barely
spoken entity called K'vorn. K'varn.

(laughter)

MATT: Long day. Long day. So upon traveling deep
into the recesses--

SAM: Don't worry Matt, you just have to talk
for three straight hours.

MATT: (laughs) I know. I know.

(laughter)

MARISHA: Your day is just getting started.

MATT: I know. But yes, so they have now, after a
series of battles, found their way into the

magma-covered, kind of obsidian jagged caverns
where the Emberhold, the duergar fortress

currently resides, where they believe Lady Kima
was. Upon finding a way in, unfortunately

announcing their presence to the fortress itself,
they managed to find Lady Kima in a torture

chamber beneath Emberhold, save her, slay her
oppressor, and now they have, after a tenuous

alliance was made-- as Lady Kima and their
mind-flayer friend Clarota are very much at odds--

a very tenuous alliance was forged. And they now
journey back up to the main basement floor, or

main base floor of the Emberhold proper. And
that's where we left off last time. So, hope you

can absorb all that, guys. (laughs)

SAM: We are inside this fortress.

MATT: Correct.

SAM: We are moving towards the armory. We're
trying to find the armory or something,

is that right?

MATT: You're trying to find, essentially-- Lady
Kima has mentioned she wants to find the rest of

her equipment that she says is either in an
armory, or she mentioned a vault. And also she

knows-- she mentioned something about vengeance to
those who run the keep. So she stormed up.

LAURA: We're following her, right?

MATT: You've followed her back into the base floor
of the Emberhold itself. You all currently are now

back kinda where you started after you snuck into
the side passage of the Emberhold.

LAURA: And she said she would lead the way to the
vault?

SAM: Can we be quiet for a second and see if
there's any footsteps around us or guards marching

around? Are we in immediate peril or do we have a
second?

MATT: Certainly. Everyone go ahead and make an
immediate perception roll.

SAM: Okay.

LAURA: So fast!

MARISHA: Website went live, if you want to
announce that now or later.

MATT: Later. Two?

LAURA: No, 22! (laughs)

LIAM: 28.

ASHLEY: 13.

TALIESIN: 24.

ORION: Fail.

SAM: Ten. (laughs)

MATT: That's a fail! All right, so-- You've got to
be ready!

MARISHA: 27!

MATT: Okay.

(laughter)

SAM: I'm sure he'll give you half of that.

MATT: Nearly at the ready. All right, so as you
all take a moment and kind of steel yourselves,

your ears perk up and you can hear what sounds
like echoes of distant footsteps down hallways,

far out of sight. You hear some movement across
the stone ceiling above you that eventually comes

to a stop. And you wait for about a minute, and
the entire place is now in a very eerie silence.

LIAM: They know we're here, still.

LAURA: But they don't know where we are.

LIAM: No.

ORION: Maybe they went to sleep?

TALIESIN: Lady Kima, do you remember where the
vault is?

Do you remember how we can get back there?

MATT: Kima turns to you, her eyes still peering
back, and she's creeping towards the edge of the

hallway. She looks back at you, briefly, and says,
"I've only seen half of this stronghold before

"they captured me. As far as I know, probably
somewhere on the second floor."

LAURA: What floor are we on now?

MATT: "The ground floor."

LIAM: The ground floor.

LAURA: Right, cool.

ASHLEY: So it's just one up?

(laughter)

MATT: "Apparently."

LIAM: Were there stairs-- When we went down that
set of stairs there, was there also stairs going

up right there, or stairs going up?

MATT: There were stairs-- Right there? No. There
were stairs going up

in the first room you entered.

LAURA: Oh, right! So we could go back in the
little storage room.

LIAM: We could.

LAURA: And go up.

LIAM: We should just spend the next three hours in
the storage room.

LAURA: Let's go in the storage room and go up.

LIAM: Lady Kima, allow me to take a peek around
the corner, see what's going on.

So I'm gonna go stealth.

MATT: Okay, go ahead and roll stealth.

LIAM: And inch past her. That's good. 29.

MATT: 29? All right. She begrudgingly steps back.
You can see there's that eagerness to get in some

sort of a fray or to feel somebody else bash along
the side of this greatsword that she borrowed from

you guys. She lets you pass. You creep up along
the edge. As you do, you see-- back here there is,

in the middle of this hallway, a series of
doorways, and what looks to be a large room in the

center of the chamber where two duergar currently
stand.

LIAM: I turn back to the group.

TALIESIN: (whispers) How
about the other way?

SAM: Why don't we just kill them?

LIAM: Isn't that a corner-- a dead-on corner right
there?

MATT: This is another hallway.

LIAM: Another hallway.

SAM: Let's go kill the duergar.

LAURA: How dark is it in here? Is it like--

MATT: No. It's pretty dark in here. Like, with low
light vision, you're able to see maybe a good 30

to 40 feet ahead of you. There are a few of those
red crystal clusters that give off a little bit of

light, incrementally, but duergar themselves,
you've gotten to the point where you see they like

it very, very dark. They actually aren't needing
light. This is more of a courtesy to guests they

may have.

LAURA: So potentially, brother, we could take them
both out if you throw your knife

and I do an arrow.

ORION: Wait, didn't we see further past that,
'cause that's where Grog did the--

(crushing noise)

SAM: No, this is the area that we haven't been in
yet.

LIAM: I just put up a hand, and then slip around
this direction and slip down this second hallway

that you revealed.

MATT: All right. As you step past, you do see,
this room here is a little ajar; the inside looks

to be a storage room. There's just a series of
boxes, barrels, and various--

LAURA: (gasps) Maybe you can put yourself in a box
and walk around.

MARISHA: (gasps) Yes! Metal Gear Solid it!

LIAM: I continue to creep away from my sister,
specifically.

MATT: All right, you glare down the side of this
hallway. It leads to two other smaller rooms down

the way, with a split towards the back end. There
does not appear to be anybody

visible in that hall.

LIAM: All right, I got this, I'm going to keep
going.

SAM: Wait, what about us!?

LAURA: Why are you doing this?

MATT: All right, so you go past this way.

SAM: Jesus. Two duergar, we can take them out in a
second!

MATT: Now this hallway, there appears to be an
opening to this room, no doorway.

LAURA: Everybody wait while my brother goes on a
field trip.

MATT: And this additional room, you do not
currently see an entrance.

LIAM: An opening that's not a doorway? Or--

MATT: I mean, there isn't a door in the way, it's
just an opening.

LIAM: The door is open. All right, so I'm going to
press against the wall, up to the edge, wait for

five seconds, see if I can hear anything, and then
if not, curve around and peek in.

MATT: Perception roll.

LIAM: 20.

MATT: 20. You take a moment and listen. You hear
what sounds like a light crackling of some sort of

a fire? And the occasional dull ring of metal
being hit against metal.

SAM: What was it? Metal against metal?

LIAM: Okay, I'm going to get low to the ground,
and peek in the door.

MATT: All right. Peeking through, you do see,
indeed, it is some sort of a smithy, with two

kilns, or two anvils, set up, a work table in the
center, and there is one lone duergar that,

apparently, in the middle of his work, has not
been paying attention to any of the ruckus going

on around, and is just in the middle of hitting
some sort of long, thick piece of black iron, and

it's just, (ting ting), sweat dripping down the
front of his brow, the room itself is-- even

against the corner of the doorway, you can tell
the temperature is a lot warmer on the inside.

LIAM: And his back is to me, currently?

MATT: It's kinda to the side to you. He's
currently looking-- working out

the anvil, banging down.

LIAM: So this way?

MATT: Yes.

LIAM: Oh, but I see the door on the other side, so
I take the earring--

SAM: Oh, why don't you just keep going forever?

LIAM: -- take the earring and I whisper to my
sister, (whispers) follow along.

LAURA: Oh. I've been invited on the field trip,
guys!

SAM: Just you?

LAURA: Just me!

SAM: Come on!

LAURA: Who else can stealth?

MARISHA: I'm a stealthy panther right now.

LAURA: Do you wanna be something and pop in my
pocket? (laughs) That sounded wrong.

MATT: You haven't had a short rest yet, and you
do--

MARISHA: (clears throat) I was gonna say, I'm
still a cat form. But I can accompany you.

LAURA: I should not go with you, I can't stealth
for shit right now.

(laughter)

LAURA: I rolled a seven.

LIAM: (whispers) Send Scanlan up.

LAURA: (whispers) Scanlan.

SAM: Huh, what?

LAURA: My brother's calling for you.

MATT: You feel the oppressive force of Clarota's
voice in your heads simultaneously say,

"I can also accompany."

ASHLEY: Good plan. Good plan, Clarota.

SAM: All right. I'll step ahead and go invisible.

MATT: All right, so mark off your next
Invisibility spell. As you vanish, Clarota also

kind of waves his hand for a moment, and his image
disappears the same way Scanlan's did.

SAM: Ooh! He does that too?

MATT: Apparently.

LAURA: What did he do?

SAM: He went invisible! (sings) We're walking down
a hall, nobody's watching us.

(laughter)

MATT: As you're humming to yourself--

SAM: Oh no!

MATT: You make your way down and eventually
towards the back of where

Vax is pressed against the--

LIAM: I can feel Scanlan's flute pressing into my
buttocks.

SAM: That's not my flute!

(laughter)

LIAM: So I turn to them, and then I start-- I pass
the door.

MATT: Okay.

LIAM: I'm gonna go around the corner to that other
door.

MATT: All right.

LIAM: And now I'm going to stab the duergar in the
neck.

MATT: All right! Go ahead and roll for an attack!

LIAM: Natural 20, natural 20!

(cheering)

MATT: That's how you start the game.

MARISHA: It's a good day! I feel like it's gonna
be a good day.

MATT: All righty. So go ahead and roll damage.
This is a sneak attack, as he didn't-- it was not

aware you were there.

LIAM: I'll use my keen dagger, I think. Four plus
seven is-- This is a pencil, right? Okay, 11.

Where-- how do you make it work? 11.

MATT: All right.

LIAM: Eight, 13--

SAM: Get him in the neck so he can't yell.

LIAM: Ooh. 66.

MATT: You don't multiply the modifier. The
modifier goes on at the end. So it's the dice roll

plus your sneak attack, multiplied by two, and
then the dex modifier at the end.

MARISHA: That's a lot!

LIAM: Okay.

MATT: Plus seven, I think, right at the end.

LIAM: Yeah, that's right.

So it's the damage plus the sneak attack,
double that--

MATT: And then add the plus seven at the end.

LAURA: That's 28 times two plus seven.

LIAM: 26.

MATT: Splitting hairs here! That's enough. So.

LIAM: One plus two plus two plus one.

MATT: So you hear this, 'Tink! Tink! Tink!'
(pause) That's it. Without even a guttural noise,

the dagger buries itself in the base of his skull.
You see him just (grunts)

and slump down to the ground.

LIAM: I catch the hammer and I start going 'Tink!
Tink! Tink!' And wave the two invisible beings

into the room.

ASHLEY: Hey! What happened in there?

SAM: We're here! We're ready to fight. What do you
need us to do?

MATT: Kima at this point-- You can see her hand
kind of tensing around the sword as she looks back

at Grog, whose hands are also wringing his
greataxe. "I want to kill something!" She kind of

backs off to the side and sees the other duergar
that are there.

ASHLEY: (Grog voice) I want to rage!

MATT: And she's going to go ahead and run around.

LIAM: Don't waste my natural 20, Kima. Come on!

LAURA: Man, you can't control Kima!

MARISHA: This is why we don't have AI in the
party, guys. You can't control the AI.

MATT: You know you guys are telling a very, very
angry woman right now to be patient. Doesn't seem

to make a ruckus.

LAURA: Can I sneak up to the corner at least, so I
can be ready to attack those two bastards?

MATT: Over to here? All righty. Trinket, who
hasn't seen you in a while,

is sticking to your back.

LAURA: I sit there and I kind of pet him as I look
around the corner.

MATT: Okay. Trinket is enjoying the petting. All
right, so that duergar's down, the current armory

section appears to be completely open and at your
disposal. There are a series of partially made

weapons kind of scattered in a pile. There are
some ingots, and even some raw iron material in

the far corner. Other than that, it just looks
like your general smithing workshop.

SAM: Is Kima with us now?

MATT: Kima is currently looking around this
section with you guys.

SAM: Kima, do you see any of your equipment here
that you wanted?

MATT: She glances around, goes and move some of the
piles by, turning over the room as quietly as she

can-- not as quietly as you'd like-- but quiet
enough. "No. Nothing's here."

SAM: Can't you just take one of these things and
call it a day?

(laughter)

MATT: She glares in the direction of your voice.

SAM: I'm invisible, I--

MATT: "This will do me just fine for now!"

SAM: Oh!

MATT: "Right. Let's keep looking." She leaves the
room. She starts heading down this way--

LIAM: All right, I'm following after her,
tiptoeing after her.

LAURA: We should go after her. 'Cause we're all
gonna split up.

LIAM: Yeah, I speak into my earring and say zubba
zubba zubba zubba.

LAURA: Let's all go in that back way and see if we
can stealth around.

MATT: Okay. For everyone else, stealth
check.

TALIESIN: Oh boy.

ASHLEY: Here we go!

ORION: Yes! Natural 20!

MATT: Disadvantage on you, Pike, because of your
heavy armor.

ASHLEY: So that means I roll twice?

MATT: Roll twice, take the lower.

ASHLEY: I take the lower one.

ORION: Now as that happens, I want to cast Mage
Hand and I want to cast Light on it, and I want to

slowly have it drift down there.

MATT: They're both concentration spells. You can
have one or the other.

ORION: Dagnabbit.

MATT: Mage Hand isn't an actual object,
unfortunately.

ORION: Dagnabbit. Okay, fine. Instead I cast
Prestidigitation and I make a little glowy orb,

and it's a little flickery, and I cast-- I think I
can maybe try, what, 15 feet?

MATT: Okay. And where are you casting it? Just in
the middle of this hallway here?

ORION: No. To my left.

MATT: Here?

SAM: He wants to see in the dark place.

ORION: I wanna see in the dark place.

MATT: There is no entrance to this room
currently from what you can see. It's just a wall.

There is a door on the opposite side.

SAM: Now it's a well-lit wall.

ORION: Hm. All right, well, I follow after the
bear.

(laughter)

MATT: All right, so what was your stealth roll?

LAURA: Oh, it was 17.

MATT: 17. Roll for Trinket.

LAURA: Oh gosh.

SAM: (bear noises)

LAURA: I thought he just got what I got. Crap.

SAM: Not good.

LAURA: What do I add to it?

SAM: Nothing.

MATT: Add his dex modifier. Trinket's dex
modifier.

LAURA: Okay, hold on. Hold on. Oh, good.

LIAM and LAURA: 11.

MATT: All right, as you guys are making your way
down the hallway, slowly--

LAURA: I kinda clamp my hand over his mouth and
tell him to shush.

MATT: You guys make your way down here. One of the
duergar glances over--

SAM: Oh boy.

MATT: -- utters something to the friend at his
side and he goes--

LIAM: I heard the bear and I start sliding my back
down along the wall.

LAURA: Oh crap. I turn around and notch my arrow
for them.

MATT: Okay, Trinket moves past

TALIESIN: I walk up to the very, very edge of the
hallway.

LIAM: And I'm stabbing! Stabbing, stabbing!
Stabbing.

ORION: Matthew, behind the bear.

MATT: You move behind the bear?

ORION: Yes.

MATT: You are right there and they both see you

ORION: No, no, the other bear. I mean, the other
side of the bear.

MATT: As you're walking behind Trinket, all this
transpires simultaneously. Right. And they saw the

bear and then saw something move behind it. Their
attention was got. They see you and they start

walking towards--

LIAM: Stabbing duergars, stabbing duergars.

MATT: However, as they pass there, you get one shot
at this guy as he passes past you. Go ahead and

make your attack.

ORION: I wave at them.

MATT: Okay. (laughs) Tiberius waves at them.

MARISHA: I go ahead and move up next to Percy.

ORION: Hello. I don't think they're our friends.

MATT: Unfortunately, the space is a little limited
for your size. You have to wait for the rest of

them to let you by.

MARISHA: Oh, but Grog's behind me. He's not here,
right? Where's Grog?

MATT: You're a big cat right now.

MARISHA: I'm a big kitty.

LIAM: I rolled a 15.

MATT: 15? 15 does barely hit.

LIAM: Okay, so same keen dagger.

MATT: As you go ahead, move around the corner and
fire. Two arrows?

LAURA: 17.

MATT: All right. Second one? Same guy or different
targets?

LAURA: Same target. He's right in front. That one
hits too, that's 19.

MATT: Both hit, go ahead and roll damage on both.

LIAM: 32 for me.

MATT: Okay. So as you watch them both walk past
you, one of them continues past with his hammer

out, rushing towards whatever he sees moving at
the end of the hallway, probably Tiberius after

Trinket. The next one that comes past you, you
reach around and just take your dagger and swing

it across the back of his neck area. You manage to
sever the base of the spine and he just crumples

into a pile in front of you. The other one--
Damage?

LAURA: 22 with the two arrows. Nine and 13.

MATT: Both arrows impact his chest. The duergar
steps back for a second, surprised by the moment,

looks really furious and begins to step forward,
his size enlarging.

TALIESIN: I knock him right in the face with the
butt of my gun as he rounds the corner.

MATT: All right. Go ahead and make a stealth check
to see whether or not he sees you.

TALIESIN: I can't use my previous stealth roll?

MATT: Not for this point. This is an active
combat.

TALIESIN: Damn it. Eight.

MATT: Okay. So you still get the attack, but you
don't have advantage, 'cause he's aware you're

there. As he's running past you, he glances and
sees you in the corner of his eye and is preparing

for the blows. Go ahead and roll your attack.

TALIESIN: What do I add to this, by the way? I've
never done a physical attack.

MATT: You're hitting it with the blunt. Go ahead
and roll a d20 and

add your strength modifier and four.

TALIESIN: All right. Natural 20!

(cheering)

MARISHA: Look, it's flashing!

TALIESIN: It flashes if I hit a natural 20.

MATT: All right, so go ahead and roll damage. It
is a 1d4 plus your strength modifier.

TALIESIN: So that would be 2d4 plus my strength
modifier, because it's a natural 20.

MATT: Correct, yes.

TALIESIN: That's six points of damage.

MATT: Well, it's five on there, right?

TALIESIN: My strength modifier is one.

MATT: Okay, so that's five times two is ten plus
one. 11 points of damage.

TALIESIN: 11 points of damage.

MATT: Which will do it. As the duergar sees you,
is rushing past with his hammer, about to fall

back and swing at you, you rush out from behind
the corner with the blunt end of your weapon and

just whack him in the side of the temple.

SAM: Girly scream.

ORION: What was that?

TALIESIN: (whispers) We're good, we're good.

MATT: Unconscious on the ground. Alive but
unconscious.

ASHLEY: He's not dead? Can I-- so he's at a
disadvantage, basically?

MATT: He's incapacitated.

ASHLEY: So can I go up to him and slit his throat
with my mace of disruption?

To make sure he's dead?

MATT: If you'd like to?

ASHLEY: Yes, I want to.

MATT: Okay.

ASHLEY: Is that really bad, though?

MATT: Pike walks up and grabs the back of the
duergar's hair, holds it back and using the jagged

edge of her mace of disruption, tears open the
throat of the duergar, which then spills all this

blackish ichor across the ground.

LIAM: She went renegade, folks. She's gone
renegade.

ASHLEY: I just wanted to make sure he didn't come
after us.

MATT: Grog looks impressed but also slightly
worried as the man who grew up alongside you. All

right, so that happened.

LIAM: And then she says, okay, I'm gonna dismember
the body. Hold on.

(laughter)

LAURA: Torture weapons.

SAM: Because I'm invisible in the thing with Lady
Kima, I get up on a stool to see if I can catch

some cleavage.

(laughter)

SAM: Just peek over, peek in.

MATT: The leather armor that she wore is a full
torso-covering leather armor piece, I apologize.

SAM: (sighs) I give up.

MATT: Sorry, Scanlan. She is-- Yeah, which by the
way, I mean, it's not just so much the fact that

Pike did it, it's the fact that Pike did it by
running a jagged, blade-edged mace across

someone's throat. It was less of a slice and more of
a--

ASHLEY: Is Sarenrae gonna get really mad at me?

MATT: We'll see.

ASHLEY: They're really bad! If they're really bad
guys, they were super bad. The duergar are so bad.

She'd probably be happy--

ORION: Right, Pike, but man, that was rough.

MATT: We'll find out.

TALIESIN: He had a little duergar back at home.

MATT: So, given this case, now the rest of the
party is able to move forward. This hallway now,

you can only see about that far down with the
current light source. You can see Kima is now

moving across--

SAM: Aw, she's just going?

LAURA: Go listen-- aw, she's still going that
direction?

LIAM: All right. I'm tiptoe-jogging behind Kima.

MARISHA: Can we do something to slow her down?

SAM: I can stop her if you want?

MARISHA: Well, I mean, can we-- I mean, we don't
wanna stop her

I just wanna be like, hey, slow, girl.

LAURA: She's-- you know what? I bet she's pretty
noisy too!

MATT: She's wearing leather armor, she's not very
noisy right now.

LIAM: I carefully place a hand on Kima's shoulder,
and do a little, sort of, curtsy motion.

Allow me, I can--

MATT: Okay, as you do so she kinda stops and looks
back over her shoulder and gives a begrudging nod.

But you can see she's-- there's shaking, her hand
holding the greatsword

is currently shaking with rage.

LIAM: I say-- (silent) Two words, three
syllables.

(laughter)

MATT: All right, so. Coasting down this hallway.
It leads down to an open doorway and a closed

doorway immediately to your right. And then the
room to-- actually, the doorway's to your left,

and to the right you see another wall to another
room that you don't have

a doorway currently available.

LIAM: There's a door to my left and a door
straight ahead, right?

MATT: Correct.

LIAM: Okay, I inch up to the closed door on the
left and place my ear to the door and listen.

MATT: Okay, go ahead and make a perception check.

LIAM: Yeah, natural 20.

MARISHA: What?!

ASHLEY: Come on!

SAM: Yeah. It's gonna be one of those nights.

LAURA: I need that one! Oh my goodness.

TALIESIN: Don't. Jinx it.

MATT: I'm gon' kill all you.

LAURA: No!

(laughter)

MATT: You put your ear to the side, and you hear
nothing.

LIAM: Okay. Do I sense any kind of-- I'm checking
for traps on the door.

MATT: Okay. Yup.

LIAM: Trap's perception, right? 26.

MATT: So the door itself does not appear to be
trapped. It does appear to be locked, though.

LIAM: All right, well, I pull out my picks. And I
get a three on that, so--

MATT: That's okay. It's a really, really, really
crappy lock.

LAURA: Oh!

MATT: You notice that the door itself, it has a
locking mechanism on it. It was kinda half-locked,

and as you push, it opens up, into a commode.

LIAM: Aw, yes!

MATT: There's nobody in there. It is a room with
what looks almost like a bench, with a series of

holes cut into the bench. It's a communal--

LIAM: Well, I'm tempted to close the door for a
moment, but I will press on instead.

SAM: Check for loot!

(laughter)

LAURA: Gross!

LIAM: All right, so I'm going to inch towards that
open door ahead of me, see what's around the

corner.

SAM: I'm gonna follow-- I'm gonna inch up behind
him as well. I'm still invisible, right? How long

does that last?

MATT: Okay. It's concentration for quite some
time, I believe.

MARISHA: Actually--

TALIESIN: Really quickly-- Oh, do you want to go
first?

MARISHA: No, you go.

TALIESIN: Does anyone want to hide these bodies
that we've just scattered about--

LAURA: Yeah, that would be good!

MARISHA: Inside the loo.

TALIESIN: It's a perfect place for them to be
interred.

LIAM: So, Pike, hold still, please.

ASHLEY: I'm not moving!

SAM: Pike, eviscerate the bodies!

MARISHA: Here, I'm gonna-- I'll walk over, in
tiger form, and I just grab one by the scruff and

start dragging it.

MATT: Grog helps out. You guys move the two bodies
slowly over into the restroom area.

MARISHA: Wait, we kinda prop them up to kinda like
Weekend at Bernie's them, yeah, make them just

look like they're, you know, passed out.

MATT: Okay, as they're both generally laying back,
like they just got really drunk and barely found

their way to the toilet.

SAM: And throats slit.

(laughter)

MATT: It's really rough blockage.

MARISHA: We take that one and kind of like lean him
forward so you can't tell immediately.

MATT: Okay. All right, that's not a worry. You
bring that up to that little area there.

All right.

LIAM: Well done, there.

TALIESIN: Oh, thank you.

MATT: You guys move forward to that. Grog has come
over here to be able to help. Now, looking down

this hallway, here you can see--

SAM: Who we got, who we got?

MATT: This side opens up--

LAURA: All I want to do is find the damn treasure
room.

MATT: Looking into this room, it appears to be a
barracks. A room that is just filled with

different beds, all apparently empty.

LAURA: Oh, they're up and looking for us.

MARISHA: Apparently empty?

MATT: From what you can see.

MARISHA: Can I use my keen smell to see if I smell
any duergar in there?

MATT: Sure. So you slowly approach the door using
your keen senses, which opens up this

hallway a little bit visibly to you. You can see
it goes back quite a bit. Sniffing this room, you

can tell that there were duergar there recently.
Apparently, at the moment, though, there is no

immediate scent that matches a duergar. So the
room, for the most part, has been completely

evacuated.

MARISHA: Okay, I kinda-- even though I'm not a
dog, I'm a cat, I still kinda point. I go into

pointer face. You know? Like--

ORION: Pointer face?

MARISHA: You know, like a pointer.

LIAM: Yeah, angling your nose forward, all right.

SAM: I think Keyleth has to pee.

(laughter)

SAM: I never had a cat.

LIAM: All right, I'm gonna start sliding down that
hall there, ignoring this other passage, and get

up to the door and again place my ear to it. Oh
look, there's the front entrance.

MATT: As you look to your right, this is a large
foyer-type area with two red carpets that are

rolled on the sides of it that lead to the front
of the main double-sided, large ten-foot-tall

stone doors of the front of the fortress. To your
left, there is a double wooden door, about eight

feet tall each side, about five feet wide, that
are currently closed, leading into whatever this

large chamber is immediately to your left.

SAM: Can I hang a right and go down that other
hall?

TALIESIN: We should check out what's in that other
hall.

SAM: Is there a door over there?

MATT: There are two doors, actually.

SAM: Closed?

MATT: Both closed.

SAM: I'm going to listen into those doors.

MATT: Make a perception check.

SAM: Natural 17.

(cheering)

MARISHA: Gotta love that nat 17.

MATT: Listening in, you don't hear any noise.

SAM: That could mean nothing.

LIAM: Are you at the double doors with me?

SAM: I'm to the right. I went the other way.

LIAM: Okay. I'm going to listen at the big
wooden doors, and I rolled, oh,

not that great. 17.

MATT: All right. Listening in--

ORION: I scootch up ahead of Grog like, excuse me,
excuse me.

MATT: As you listen back, there is no noise
internally, except for the slight squeak as you

put yourself against the door. It shifts a little bit,
making no noticeable noise, but it appears the

doors are unlocked, or there is no lock.

LAURA: Oh no.

MATT: You're not hearing anything from inside that
one door you're at.

SAM: Wait, I just heard a noise?

MATT: No, you hear no noise coming from that
room.

SAM: Oh, okay. Stinking Cloud, can I go through
doors, or do I have to see what

I'm casting it at?

MATT: You have to have sight, unfortunately. I
mean, you could peek very low.

SAM: I'm going to open the door and look.

MATT: Okay.

SAM: 'Cause why not?

MATT: You open the door. It appears to be some
sort of a guest bedroom. It's a singular bed

that's in much better condition than the barracks,
it's empty, it's well-made. It's more lit than the

other rooms. It seems to be a room that's designed
for either non-duergar riff-raff or general

soldiers or guests or people that would come to
the fortress to stay, so.

SAM: Okay.

LIAM: I'm going to try to peer into the door, and
I haven't talked about this before, but I'm wearing

a cloak of elvenkind, which means I have advantage
on stealth, and enemies have disadvantage on

spotting me, so I'm going to lean my head in.

MATT: All right.

LIAM: Do I need to roll for stealth or am I
already stealthed?

MATT: For this, you're already stealthed. So as
you glance inside the room, you see what appears

to be a great hall of some kind. There are large
wooden tables, there is a fire pit in the center

that has a number of mostly burned wood that is
mainly just small darkened embers with a little

bit of glowing yellow and red to it. There are
stools scattered about the room, you can see there

are remnants of some of a meal that hasn't been
fully cleaned up yet on some of the tables. But

the room appears to be empty. You do see a slight
glimmer across the way on one of the tables.

LIAM: Oh, I'm going to go check it out.

LAURA: (whispers) Get the sparkly thing.

MATT: All right. Everyone else, what are you
doing?

SAM: Can I look around the guest bedroom? Just
kinda snoop around up in things?

LAURA: Can I ask him, I'm asking you what you see
in there. What do you see in there?

LIAM: I don't know yet, hold on

LAURA: Is it sparkly?

LIAM: I'm going to try to sense for traps in this
room.

MATT: Okay.

MARISHA: I'm going to snoop in the barracks.

MATT: Snoop in the barracks.

LIAM: 14.

ORION: I'm going to make my way around all this
riff-raff, uh, no, uh, yes.

MATT: You push your way through. "Excuse me,
excuse me, pardon me." Pushing through everybody.

ORION: I'm going to go past where Vax is in the
room down that hallway, then I'm going to do my

Mage Hand thingy again. Oh, my Prestidigitation.

MATT: Down this hallway?

ORION: Mm-hm.

MATT: Okay.

ORION: Slowly, five feet by five feet.

MATT: All right. You see slowly, as you move down
this hallway to check it out, a secondary set of

barracks that are also apparently empty.

LAURA: Where are they? The stairs are up in the storage
room, man. That's where we just were.

MATT: You see a secondary commode that is open. And
as you glance around the corner as the light

passes by you see there are two duergar currently
coming down the hallway this direction.

MARISHA: Oh shit!

ORION: I just stop! And I creep back.

MATT: Okay. As you creep back, you hear footsteps
coming your way quickly.

LIAM: I'm going to the door, then, I can hear
that. Inside the door, inside the door.

MATT: Oh, inside the door there?

MARISHA: I'm going to stay actually right there,
just right at the threshold.

MATT: Okay. The rest of you guys?

LAURA: I mean, I'm so far away. I can try to get
up there but--

MATT: You can glance, there's still a hallway
around that way if you wanted to go around.

LAURA: Okay. I'll go around the back way then.

MATT: Okay, so you move around--

LAURA: With Trinket!

MATT: Trinket follows up behind. Makes your way up
there. Scanlan, you staying in that room?

SAM: I'm taking a dump on the guest bed.

(laughter)

ORION: They don't see me, right?

LAURA: I like walk by the door and see that
happening

(laughter)

SAM: But also just covering it up with a blanket
afterwards.

MATT: Okay, well, you're in mid-process, this is
all happening very quickly.

SAM: Oh. (grunts)

ASHLEY: I'll go around back behind where Trinket
and Vex just went.

MATT: Okay. Because of your little legs you get
about that far. Your little legs carry you.

SAM: I'm invisible. It's poop.

(laughter)

MATT: (sighs)

(grunting and laughter)

MARISHA: It's apparating poo.

TALIESIN: I'm staying in the hallway,

SAM: Scanlan's just like, I hate this mission.

MATT: Okay, so. Tiberius, as you're backing up,
both the duergar turn around immediately, seeing

you, and rear back with javelins, throwing them
directly at you.

ORION: Oh! I'll cast Blur instead.

MATT: Okay. Go ahead and roll initiative real fast
to see who gets off first what.

ORION: I'm not going to count that. Oh, I'll count
that. 19.

(laughter)

MATT: What, why didn't you count it?

ORION: Because it flew out of my hand, I didn't
roll it.

MATT: Okay. All right.

ORION: Yeah.

(laughter)

ORION: It's on camera, tell them to play back.

MATT: So you go ahead and cast Blur. You guys see
as Tiberius comes running back, (startled sounds).

He manages to cast a spell really fast as two
javelins come flying towards him. His visible

image begins to actually blur; the outline looks
almost like there's two mirror images of Tiberius

in the same place that are both shimmering and
preventing them from actually telling where he's

actually standing. The first javelin comes in at a
14.

ORION: Nope.

MATT: Second one comes in at a 17.

ORION: 17. Yes.

MATT: Oh sorry, no, it's a four, 'cause it has
disadvantage. So both javelins just whish past.

Looks like they pierced part of that kinda
shimmering blurring form, but both just ricochet

off the walls of stone and come clattering to the
ground. Kinda near back where Kima and Grog are.

They both step out of the way as they land.

MARISHA: Ha-ha.

MATT: All right, so that brings us to-- that was
your action. Who else wants

to take the next action?

LIAM: I'm gonna hold.

LAURA: I can't see anything, can I, from where I
am?

MATT: It's kinda dark, and you can see movement in
the distance.

LAURA: Can I hop on Trinket's back and see if I
can see higher?

MATT: You can try. All right. So you hop on the
back of Trinket, (laughs) looking over the top,

and you know Grog is kinda blocking part of your
view, but you can see, with your low-light vision,

what looks to be Tiberius' form shimmering and two
duergar-height individuals that are partially

blocked by him. So they do have partial cover, or
three-quarters cover. Do you have the feat that

ignores that?

LAURA: I don't know? I don't know.

MATT: (laughs) Because you don't know I'm going to
say no.

TALIESIN: It would be called Sharpshooter.

MATT: Yeah it would be called Sharpshooter, is the
feat.

LAURA: No, I don't have that.

MATT: Okay, yeah. So go ahead and roll for attack
on one or both duergar, up to you.

LAURA: 21.

MATT: Okay.

LAURA: And 23.

MATT: Okay. The 21 misses, the 23 hits. Because
they have cover and because it's so dark it's

difficult to make out their form, but you do
manage to hit one with the arrow.

LAURA: Okay. I Hunter's Mark him.

MATT: Okay. Next time, make sure you do that
before you attack. Otherwise it won't count for

the attack.

LAURA: Okay. Okay. 13, uh, 12! (laughs) Math! Stay
in school.

MATT: (laughs) All right. There you go. 12, then
add your Hunter's Mark bonus to that as well.

LAURA: Oh, good, one.

MATT: All right, gotcha. So one arrow sinks in the
shoulder, but doesn't appear to be stopping his

angry advance towards Tiberius. Let's see. You're
staying where you are?

LIAM: Waiting.

MATT: All right. You guys are actually kind of
like pinched off in the hallway right here, so as

you guys are all kind of--

SAM: (strained) Don't say 'pinched off' to me.

(laughter)

MATT: -- as you're doing this, Tiberius, you're
right there. The two duergar catch up to you and

both, now that their javelins are out of their
hands, pull out their hammers with their bonus

actions and come down at you with an attack each.

MARISHA: Run, Tiberius!

MATT: That's gonna be a six.

ORION: No.

MATT: And a 17.

ORION: 17 hits.

MATT: Okay, yeah, that Blur is saving you, man.
All right, so as the one-- both the duergar are

kinda like swelling with frustration, anger. It's
an ability, you've now gotten to the point where

you can see, these duergar can actually
temporarily increase their form for stronger blows

and attacks. Comes and strikes you for 12 points
of bludgeoning damage as the hammer comes cracking

down, finding purchase on your torso, and it kinda
pushes you back a few inches. That's gonna bruise

tomorrow morning.

MARISHA: Can I do a combo move with Grog, assuming
that he would agree with me that it's gonna be

super cool?

MATT: He'd probably agree with you, what do you
wanna do?

MARISHA: Okay. (laughs) Thanks, Grog! So since
Grog's kind of there-- Can we arrange like a

fastball special, almost? So have him like kind of
go up and crouch and I'm gonna bust out--

MATT: How are you going to communicate this to
Grog?

MARISHA: He-- with--

LIAM: (meows)

(laughter)

MATT: I'm gonna have to say, unfortunately, that's
not gonna work out for this moment. Grog's

attention is on the duergar and you are a giant
cat.

LIAM: Hey, I'm gonna sneak behind Tiberius and
stab that guy.

LAURA: It would've been so cool, though.

ASHLEY: That would've been really cool.

LIAM: And since Tiberius is there, I can get sneak
attack damage, 'cause one of my allies is there--

MATT: All right, just a second there, you're still
holding, let's finish Keyleth. So Keyleth, what

are you doing?

MARISHA: Well, is Grog in my way?

MATT: Grog is there. You can attempt to leap over
Grog.

MARISHA: I was wanting to vault off Grog's back,
is what I was wanting to do.

MATT: You can do that without asking him.

MARISHA: Yeah, that's what I was going to do.

MATT: No, you were saying you wanted to tell Grog
you were going to do that. But yes, you can still

do it. So go ahead and roll an acrobatics check.

MARISHA: No, you asked how I was communicating
it.

LAURA: Just do it, Keyleth!

MARISHA: So I'm gonna come out and I'm gonna vault
off his back and try and do a pounce over top of

Tiberius for that duergar that's closest to you.
What am I rolling?

TALIESIN: Acrobatics.

MARISHA: Acrobatics? Is this an acrobatics thing?

MATT: Yes. From around the corner, you pull back,
leap up, jump onto Grog's back and attempt to

spring off of it.

MARISHA: 11.

MATT: 11, okay. (laughs) All right. So you jump
off of Grog's back. Grog, not expecting it,

instinctively ducks down and the force you push
off, as he's not aware there's going to be a giant

cat there--

MARISHA: Uh-huh.

MATT: -- in doing so, it doesn't give you the
momentum you need. You are able to jump over him

and get kind of into center of the fray. But you
do not have the pounce attack, unfortunately.

MARISHA: Okay. That's fine.

MATT: But it gets you there, at least.

MARISHA: Oh, can I not attack?

MATT: You can attack, yeah.

MARISHA: Okay, okay, okay. I'm gonna go ahead and
do my bite attack.

MATT: Go for it.

MARISHA: I'm gonna go right for his throat. Still
with the same intention that I had in mind.

MATT: Okay, this is the one that took the arrow
from Laura.

MARISHA: Okay, 17.

MATT: 17? That hits. Go ahead and roll for damage.

MARISHA: 1d10 plus five. Where's my d10s? Ten
damage. Piercing damage.

MATT: Ten piercing damage, all right. So, as you
rush forward, you bite at him. You see he pulls

back, but you get a big, meaty chunk of his
forearm and clamp down, and you feel a snap, some

sort of bone in the middle of his arm and he gives
out a horrible-- (yells) sound, as he takes the

butt of his hammer and hits you on the snout.
Doesn't do any damage, but it's enough to get you

to kind of let go of your grip a little bit, and
he rips his arm out of your jaws. Leaving that

kind of nasty, irony taste of duergar blood, that
you've now become accustomed to, unfortunately.

That ends the round. Now you have Tiberius and a
cat in your way.

MARISHA: (meows)

LIAM: Do the doors go in or out, that I'm by?

MATT: The doors go in.

LIAM: In. So I'm just gonna go like this (hinges
creak) and throw a dagger and say peek-a-boo at

the same time.

(laughter)

MATT: Okay. As you step out (fwip).

LIAM: That is a 29 to hit.

MATT: That does hit.

LIAM: Okay.

MATT: You do not get sneak attack bonus,
unfortunately.

LIAM: Even though my ally is five feet away from
him? I thought I remembered that rule.

MATT: You do if you are in melee with them.

LAURA: Oh, right.

MATT: You get the bonus if you're both like
flanking them, or you're like harrying them in

combat. Because you're at a distance, you don't
get the bonus.

LIAM: Okay, so that is a nine. And then I'm going
to follow-- the nine of damage.

MATT: All right.

LIAM: And immediately follow up with my other
dagger, which also hits.

MATT: All right, go ahead and roll damage on the
second dagger. Which is 1d4 plus what?

LIAM: Six. That's a nine.

MATT: Nine, okay. So, after the guy rips his arm
out of Keyleth's face, essentially, a dagger comes

swinging out from behind the doorway, stabs him in
the other shoulder. You see he looks down at it

confused for a second, and as that dagger vanishes
in a puff of dark smoke, returning to your-- the

side of your hilt, he looks up just in time to see
the second dagger catch him right in the middle of

the forehead, and he just falls onto his back at
that point, unmoving. That duergar is stripped.

LAURA: What-what!

MATT: Who's up next? Who wants to do anything? Who
hasn't done anything yet this action?

SAM: Is there is a door next to me for another
room?

MATT: You're just finishing.

SAM: Oh, I'm just finishing, okay.

MATT: Sorry. So, Pike, have you done anything
yet?

ASHLEY: Can I-- Is there a door there? Somewhere,
right there?

MATT: You move around here, there is a door over here,
yes.

ASHLEY: I can't really do anything. Check it out,
check it out.

LIAM: Yeah, bust in. You can't stealth.

MATT: The door is a secondary guest room.

LIAM: And now, poop on this bed.

ASHLEY: All right.

(laughter)

TALIESIN: I can't do anything that could make
noise anyway.

MATT: It is a guest room of equal design and
dressing as the one that Scanlan, you are unaware,

is currently fouling.

(laughter)

ASHLEY: Maybe I get a sudden urge for some reason
to just poo on the bed.

(laughter)

MATT: You can do what you want. Be aware, Pike as
a character has her intent, the more you stray

from that, the more it will have ramifications for
her in the end.

ASHLEY: Yes, I know, I'm just kidding, That's not
what, that's not what I want to do. I was just,

had this feeling that Scanlan was doing something
and I felt that--

SAM: She could probably hear, muffled from behind
the door, (grunts).

ASHLEY: Okay, so I'll just-- I guess I can't do
anything while I'm in there, so? Can I just--

MATT: That's about as far as you're able to move.
You can still use your action if you wanted to do

anything, but right now your vision is currently
fairly well-blocked by a woman and a bear, and a

man the size of a bear.

ASHLEY: Yeah, okay, so I'll just hang out there.

MATT: Okay, so that brings us back to Kima, who
currently doesn't have any sort of way of getting

over there, kind of frustrating, trying 
to find a way over.

MARISHA: It's a narrow hallway.

MATT: Clarota, who is still invisible, is just gonna
hold on that point.

ORION: As everybody is doing this, I'm going to--
why are you blocking me, I'm not supposed to be

this close to this thing! Keep going.

MATT: Okay, Percy! Stand there? All right, Tiberius,
you're up.

ORION: Oh, like I was saying. Well, shit.

SAM: Aren't you right next to the guy? Kill him.

MATT: Do it quick, or we are gonna move for the
next turn.

ORION: Okay, I'll just lift up my hand and go,
Firebolt.

MATT: Okay, point-blank Firebolt. Go ahead and
roll your spell attack.

ORION: Okay, okay, 20.

MATT: 20, all right. That'll hit, go ahead and roll for
damage for the Firebolt.

ORION: Okay, ten, 18, 20, 21, 23.

MATT: 23 damage? All right. So as you
instinctively pull back, you release the blast of

Firebolt energy, the duergar who is currently
harrying you with this warhammer takes the brunt

of it right to the bottom of his face and his
torso. The studded leather armor that he's wearing

tears open with a sheer flaming burst of the
impact of it, and you see most of his skin is

charred and burned at that point. He reels back for a
second, looking very, very hurt but not quite put

down yet.

ORION: As my bonus action, I'm gonna spend two
sorcery points and do it again. So I roll for

that. It's a 22.

MATT: All right, the second blast, as he reaches
back, before he can get a chance to get back to

his feet, the second blast hits. This time, it sends
him off his feet, flying about five to ten feet

back, skidding across the ground.

ORION: 15 damage.

MATT: Yes, and that puts him, still on the floor,
laid out with a burning, kind of crippling, crispy

scent in the air of what was once a standing
duergar, now dead and burning on the ground.

MARISHA: So once again I grab him by the scruff,
take him, and put him in the bathroom.

LIAM: I give a couple of pats on Tiberius's
shoulder and start to inch down the hall.

MATT: All right, as you guys are doing this,
Scanlan steps out of the guest room, getting his

pantaloons back on.

SAM: My invisible pantaloons.

MATT: Yes. You hear the footprints of Scanlan,
you being still invisible, you essentially just--

SAM: I phantom pooped. Did I find anything in
there, by the way?

LIAM: Just relief.

MATT: You found a fun way to prank duergar.

MARISHA: Oh, yeah, did I find anything in the
barracks?

MATT: Over there? No.

TALIESIN: Did Liam-- Did Vax find anything shiny
in the room? The shiny thing.

LIAM: No, I got interrupted. That's a good idea,
thanks for the reminder, Percy.

TALIESIN: You're welcome, yes.

LIAM: Checking for-- I checked for traps
before, but I can't remember what I rolled. I'm

sure it was successful.

MATT: Go ahead and roll again.

(laughter)

LIAM: 17.

MATT: Okay, as you push the door open and get a
glance inside of the main hall, you don't see any

traps across the floor.

LIAM: Okay, I'm gonna go check out the shiny
thing.

MATT: Okay. Everyone else staying out in the
hallway?

SAM: I'm coming with him.

MATT: Okay.

SAM: If I can get there.

MATT: You manage to scoot through, dancing around
folks, people kind of let you get by.

Anyone else?

LAURA: Yeah, sure, I like shiny things.

MARISHA: I'm burying my shame, again. Burying the
duergar.

MATT: So, you're dragging the duergar over in
the--

TALIESIN: I'll go in, too.

ASHLEY: I'll follow, I'll follow.

LAURA: We're all going. It's a big, happy room.

LIAM: So say we all.

MARISHA: Well, I guess I'll go after I bury
duergar.

MATT: Yes, as you guys step in here, move up
towards the back corner, where there's the shiny

glint. Tiberius, you stay inside or outside?

ORION: I'm going to wait for everybody to go inside.

MARISHA: We will be Team Outside Posse.

MATT: Kima walks in, Grog goes to start making his
way in. As he does, you go over towards the

glimmer. The glimmer on the table, you look, it's
just formless and kind of this weird spark of

light. It then vanishes, and the doors that you
guys entered--

LAURA: (singsong) It's a trap.

MATT: -- slam behind you, with Tiberius, Grog and
Keyleth all kept outside of the room.

ASHLEY: No!

MATT: The rest of you guys, the flames go to
darkness and the entire room goes pitch-black.

MARISHA: Oh, shit!

LAURA: Oh, no, we don't have light.

LIAM: In the darkness, I say, fuck!

(laughter)

LAURA: Stupid, stupid, stupid!

ORION: I motion to Grog and I'm like, you know
what to do, damn it.

MATT: Grog's gonna go for the door, however, at
this point in time, I'm going to ask for--

LAURA: Can we stealth? I mean, I guess we're all
kind of--

SAM: Ask for?

LIAM: Roll for Deus ex Machina.

SAM: Oh, You're gonna ask the chat room
something?

MATT: No, no, no. I'm not. I'm working
out what's actually gonna happen here. All right,

so, suddenly there is a cacophonous bit of pain
streaking through Pike, Vex, and Clarota. Guys, go

ahead and make an intelligence saving throw.

SAM: Intelligence?

LAURA: All of us?

SAM: Some sort of a mind thing.

LAURA: Oh, crud.

MARISHA: Intelligence.

LAURA: Oh, oh, oh! Oh, no, I don't get any
advantage in this.

LIAM: 13.

MATT: Not you, just you two. So what's the--

TALIESIN: Never mind, that was such a good roll.

ASHLEY: What was that? That's a one. (laughs)

MATT: Okay.

ASHLEY: I rolled a one!

MATT: So in the darkness, suddenly there is this
searing pain, like some sort of screaming sound is

blasting you from the inside of your very mind.
You two are both currently stunned.

LAURA: Oh, crud.

SAM: Who's you two?

LAURA: Me and Pike.

ASHLEY: I did bad things, I did bad things. I
shouldn't have killed a man while he was down.

Wait, so what does that-- That means we just can't
do anything, right?

MATT: On every turn, you get to try and break
that, but right now neither of you can--

MARISHA: Every turn they have to try and break out
of it? It keeps going?

It's like a keep-going thing?

MATT: You both just sit there, grasping your
heads, just screaming in pain as your body is

unable to function or listen to any thought
process. Clarota also unfortunately falls victim

to this and is also unable to make any actions.

SAM: Oh boy!

LIAM: I'm pulling out my flametongue dagger to try
to get a little bit of light in here.

MATT: All right, however-- You, as you are
currently pulling out your flametongue dagger, you

feel a presence nearby, and with a little bit of
embers around the fire, you see, out of nothing, a

figure step into view that apparently was not
visible but a moment before. A tall, lithe figure,

with long limbs, fingers and a wrapping of facial
tentacles coming towards your face.

SAM: It was invisible.

LIAM: I see him, I'm gonna stab, I'm just gonna stab.

MATT: Before you get the chance to stab, you get a
surprise attack from this guy.

LAURA: Oh, no, what if he sucks our brains out?

MATT: All right, that comes to an 18 versus armor
class.

LIAM: Yeah, he got me.

MATT: So, as you go back for your blade to pull it
out, he grabs you by the shoulders and pulls you,

and the tentacles wrap around your face and pull
you into this horrible toothy maw. You feel this

tearing pain sensation as its teeth begin to dig
into your face.

ASHLEY: No, no, no, no.

LAURA: Oh my god, he's gonna die.

LIAM: That hurts. A lot.

MATT: You take 17 points of psychic damage as the
actual presence of the tentacles pulling on your

face, you feel it's kind of grabbing your brain
and trying to hold it in place. You are currently

considered grappled.

MARISHA: Son of a bitch.

MATT: Now, guys, everyone roll initiative. That
was a surprise round.

MARISHA: Surprise round.

MATT: Yes.

MARISHA: 'Cause they got the drop on us

TALIESIN: That'll do.

ORION: What's going on in there? I hear lots of
ruckus.

SAM: We'll be out in a minute.

ORION: Don't give me that, Scanlan. Oh. Scanlan,
you can hear me. What's going on in there?

SAM: We're all dying.

ORION: I turn to Grog. They're all dying.

MATT: (laughs) All right, so 25 to 20?

SAM: No one.

MATT: All right, 25 to 20, no one-- almost forgot,
go ahead and make an intelligence saving throw.

LIAM: 23.

MATT: 23, all right, you feel the presence of its
mind pressing into your brain and you manage to,

through the pain of its tentacles pulling you
towards its mouth, shrug off its current attempt

to push into your mind.

LIAM: I'm thinking of the middle finger.

MATT: That's a good thing. Okay. So you're still
grappled but you're not stunned.

SAM: Is he a piece on the board yet?

MATT: Both of them are now visible right there.
All right, so, 25 to 20?

LAURA: Nobody.

MATT: 20 to 15?

LIAM: 17.

TALIESIN: 16.

ORION: 17.

MATT: 17 and 16, all right. So actually, Grog is
going first. All right, and Percy. 15 to ten? Ten

to five?

MARISHA: Oh, oh, wait, 13.

(laughter)

MARISHA: Sorry, I was thinking about shit.

MATT: That's okay. Ten to five?

LAURA: Nine.

TALIESIN: Thinking about shit.

MARISHA: Thinking about life and death. (laughs)

TALIESIN: Word.

MATT: All right.

SAM: Two.

ASHLEY: Oh, so did I. Best friends.

SAM: Besties. Twinsies.

ASHLEY: Gnomesies.

(laughter)

SAM: We're still-- Mr. Dungeon Master, sir, this
is all the same day.

I don't get any of my spells back?

MATT: No, you guys have not rested. All right, so
first, the top actually-- Kima is at the top of

the initiative order.

MARISHA: Kima, get it girl, get it, get it girl.

MATT: Kima angrily leaps on top of the table and
goes running down with an angry yell, and leaps

down toward the one that's currently grabbing onto
you with its grapple. As she's running a little

bit of light bursts, as you can see this divine
energy begin to burst and glow off the edge of the

greatsword that she's holding. She leaps down,
and with a giant arc through the air that lights

up that portion of the room with a brief sweep,
the blade comes down towards-- oh, that'll hit.

Second attack also hits.

ASHLEY: Yes, go Kima.

MATT: So that comes to-- okay, using her Divine
Smite ability on top of that, she manages to deal

37 points of damage to it.

TALIESIN: Damn.

MATT: As she finishes both of her strikes
simultaneously. The mindflayer, however, does not

release its grasp on you. You are still considered
grappled. That ends her turn. Grog now is gonna

angrily attempt to bash into this door, is gonna
make an-- actually no, no athletics check, he's

going to go into a rage and hitting away at the
door.

(growling)

LIAM and LAURA: (Grog voice) I would like to
rage.

(laughter)

MATT: All right, that puts a total of 32 points of
damage, that's enough. So Grog just takes two big

swings. The first one comes through, cracks the
door in half, splitting it down the center. Rears

back a second time, cleaves through the door
entirely. What little bit is left on the hinges,

he kicks out with his foot, leaving now this side
completely open to the interior. He then moves in

around Clarota. That's as far as he can get in
this current turn. That brings us to Vax.

LIAM: What can I do while grappled, nothing until
I'm ungrappled?

MATT: Well, no, you can try and make an acrobatics
or athletics roll against them

to try and break free.

LIAM: Okay, but then do I have an action once
that's done or that's the action?

MATT: I'll let you use that as your move.

LIAM: All right, so I'm gonna try to use, I guess
athletics is what I would do.

MATT: Or acrobatics, up to you, whichever's
higher.

LIAM: Well, that would be acrobatics.

MATT: Acrobatics, then.

LIAM: 27.

MATT: 27?

LIAM: Yeah.

MATT: That'll do it.

LIAM: Okay.

MATT: You manage to, just in that moment of it
being struck with the two blade strikes from Lady

Kima, you manage to pull your head free from its
grasp. And just manage to right yourself now, the

throbbing pain in your head of what you just
narrowly avoided still there.

LIAM: Okay. Poison dagger in hand, I roll an 18.
Does that hit?

MATT: Okay. 18. Currently that does hit, yes.

LIAM: I wanna grab him by the calamari and stab
him in the eye.

(laughter)

MATT: Okay, go for it.

LIAM: That's what I did, so-- and then if I'm five
feet-- if Kima's there, I can sneak attack

according to the rules?

MATT: Correct.

LIAM: All right, so I'm gonna stab him in the eye.
One. Plus the sneak attack damage is two, four,

ten, 13, 19, 38, plus seven-- 45.

MATT: 45. All right. So, as you--

LIAM: With the poison dagger.

MATT: Right, the poison dagger. I think you've
already used the daily poison ability on this.

LIAM: I don't remember, so it's just a stab.

MATT: Okay. So the 45 points of damage. You pull
back and you jam it into the side of its eye. You

can see as it rears back, a spray of dark-colored
liquid kind of warms the side of your face. As you

pull the blade back out it rears back and
(growls). You can hear its voice piercing into

your head going, "I will eat you one way or
another!"

ASHLEY: No, you won't!

LAURA: Did it distract him enough that we lost our
thingy?

MATT: That's your main attack?

LIAM: I mean, I would imagine between ungrappling
and stabbing, is that it for me? Or do I get my

second attack, I don't know?

MATT: You can get your second attack, I'm sorry.

LIAM: Okay, well I think, go fuck yourself, and
stab again. Nine plus-- 19.

MATT: 19? Yeah, that hits.

LIAM: Other eye, other eye. No sneak attack. Two
plus-- eight.

MATT: Eight. Okay. As it rears back and you hear
it saying that, you pull back and you grab with

your off hand the cluster of tentacles in the
front of its face and pull it down. As you do, the

inertia-- you jam the blade into the other eye. As
you do, you hear this blast burst of angry scream

inside your head, before it goes dead cold,
silent, and the mind flayer falls to the ground.

LIAM: I fucking hate these things!

MATT: All right. That brings us to Clarota, who's
currently stunned and fails save, Clarota's still

stunned. Tiberius.

ORION: I look through the door.

MATT: Look through the door.

ORION: What's going on in here? Are there any
enemies I can see?

MATT: You can see over here, barely. It's very
dark in the far corner, you can see just the shape

of some humanoid there.

ORION: Oh. Okay, is he-- (laughs)

MATT: What are you doing, Tiberius?

ORION: (laughs) How tall is the thing?

MATT: From what you can see, it's maybe roughly
six, seven feet. Grog's blocking most of it.

ORION: No, like, we're in a bunker, right?

MATT: Right now, you're in this giant great hall
with giant tables and stools everywhere.

ORION: And the ceiling is--

MATT: You can't see the ceiling right now, there's
no light.

ORION: Oh.

MATT: The room is near pitch-black, like there's
just very little light in there currently.

ORION: I will waltz in behind Grog.

MATT: All right.

ORION: I cast Light.

MATT: Okay. The room all of a sudden bursts into
view, you can now see the walls, the ceiling--

it's a smooth stone room. There is a large
chandelier currently hanging from the top of the

ceiling. It's about 25 feet up to the ceiling in
this current room.

MARISHA: (gasps) There's a big chandelier. That's
fun.

ORION: And now do I see that guy better?

MATT: You do, yes. You see now there is a mind
flayer currently ducking behind one of the tables

right now. You can see a number of your friends in
the party are currently clutching their heads,

silently screaming to themselves, unmoving.

ORION: Ah, right. There's another one of those
guys over there!

MARISHA: Wait, there's another one?

ORION: Yes!

MARISHA: There's two?

MATT: There's two.

ORION: I spend three sorcerer points.

MATT: How many sorcerer points do you have left?
You spent a lot over the past couple games.

ORION: No, I have not, because I didn't do
anything last game, because I was all recharged.

MATT: That's true, actually. Okay. Just keep track
of that. So how many do you have left?

ORION: I have eight right now. Now I'll spend it
to go down to--

LAURA: Five.

ORION: Five. 'Cause math.

MATT: Okay, got you. Cool, good on you.

MARISHA: Fantasy math. Once again, 826LA,
after-school tutoring. Good charity.

ORION: I could have used it. I cast my pillars, or
Grand Columns, as I like to call it, and (piston

sound) all the way up and smash that little
bastard.

MATT: All right.

MARISHA: Smashy smashy.

MATT: So what's the save you get past that for the
spell?

ORION: He does a dex save, and he takes 6d6
damage, and the dex save is to see if he's pinned

or not.

MATT: Right. It does make its save, I believe,
it's 21?

ORION: Oh, my, what?

MATT: Rolled a 21 versus your DC of your spell,
which I believe is not higher than 21.

ORION: No.

MATT: So yeah, so he still takes the damage, but
is not pinned.

ORION: Which is 15, 18 points of damage.

MATT: Okay, 18 points of damage, and manages to
pull out of the way just in time as it slams into

him, he darts off and catches himself on the
ground, kind of slowly levitating above the ground

as he comes to a stop. The pillar then slams into
the roof, this section here. Actually splinters

part of the table, which is now kind of lifted
off-kilter at an angle. Yup. It--

ORION: Oh, so that-- does that mean he's in the
air for a whole round? 'Cause how it works is,

he's all the way up to that height, but he gets to
come, or fall, back down if he makes the save.

That's how-- so he has to travel that distance, so
does he cast Levitate as he's coming down?

MATT: How I'm playing it is, the impact of the
pillar suddenly slamming in from underneath is

what does the initial damage, and he manages to
roll off before it slams into the ceiling. He

kinda-- So. However, that ends your turn. The mind
flayer, now looking around and seeing the room lit

up, seeing the entire group now in this room,
looks around at everyone, puts its hands together

and concentrates-- and as it does you see its form
(sucking noise) vanish.

MARISHA: Damn it!

MATT: A few seconds pass, you guys manage to shrug
your stun, and Clarota as well.

ASHLEY: Whoa, what happened?

MARISHA: That's not good.

LAURA: What happened?

MARISHA: They really know we're here.

LAURA: We need to get out of this room, then.

TALIESIN: Let's just search the rest of this floor
as quickly as possible.

MARISHA: As quickly as possible.

LAURA: Grog, can you always put down the dust of
tracelessness?

MATT: "All right, I will." He's doing his
flower-girl moment. Passes behind you guys. All

right, so, what is the current mode of action for
you guys?

MARISHA: I'm going to go ahead and dart down this
hall that we know is for sure empty.

MATT: Okay.

LIAM: Exit the other side of the great hall that
we're in.

MATT: All right.

LAURA: And I think we should all go back-- we
should go to the second floor.

MATT: Through here.

LIAM: Walking in that door.

MATT: You look through here and see what appears
to be some sort of a kitchen. You can see shelf

units, you can see what looks like a few tables, you
can see some kitchen elements.

LIAM: I'm gonna walk all the way in, all the way
in.

MATT: All right, you walk all the way in. There's
a door towards the back--

LIAM: The right, what do I see?

MATT: The right, you see what looks to be a
doorway that's partially open that leads to a

staircase.

LIAM: Up or down?

MATT: Looks like it's going up.

MARISHA: And what's in this room? I'm looking over
here.

MATT: Okay, you look over here. It's a double door
that is currently closed.

TALIESIN: I will head in your direction as well.

ORION: Eight, two of my d6s to heal up.

MATT: You haven't taken a short rest yet. You have
to-- you guys have to stop and take ten minutes,

15 minutes to rest to do that, so--

SAM: I'm gonna look all over the great hall and
see if there's any cool stuff in there.

MATT: Make a perception check.

LAURA: I think what we should do-- Everyone, I
think what we should do is make our way back to

the initial storage room we were in and go up that
stairway, because that one's hidden. It's by a

hidden entrance, people aren't gonna think about
that one as much as main stairways.

TALIESIN: I agree, I think we should-- I agree
with that, I just think we should check the rest

of the floor as well. Just double-check
everything, make sure we didn't miss the--

LIAM: Vax is heading back to the group.

MATT: Okay.

MARISHA: Percy and I are checking this room with
the double doors. Do you have any trap checks to

see if it's locked?

LIAM: I do!

MATT: Okay, so Percy and both you guys open this
doorway. It opens up into what looks to be another

smaller eating hall. This one's nicer, this one
has one long table. This is probably where the

more socially risen--

TALIESIN: Take a quick look around.

MARISHA: Yeah, anything in there?

MATT: Looks like it hasn't been used for a day or
two.

TALIESIN: All right.

MARISHA: No cool goodies?

MATT: No current goodies in this area, no.

TALIESIN: So we'll go-- just keep going down and
check the rest of that hallway.

MATT: Okay.

LAURA: There's a lot more, you guys. I think we
should go find the vault on the second floor.

MATT: All right, you guys press down here. There
apparently are now-- you can see there's another

set of double doors--

LIAM: Vax is following.

MATT: All right.

LAURA: I think I should gather the group and try
to make it back to the other storage room. Just to

get us out of this area specifically.

MATT: So you guys are all moving back with--

LAURA: Is that cool?

MATT: -- Vex to return to the previous storage
room?

MARISHA: We can do that. Yeah, go for it.

TALIESIN: And you'll hear us if anything goes
wrong. Yeah, we'll power through it.

LAURA: Use your earring.

MATT: All right.

MARISHA: I'll go ahead and very-- I'm just gonna
kinda use my keen sense-- or sorry, my keen smell

again to see if I can smell any duergar in the
area.

MATT: Okay. Go ahead and make a perception check
with advantage.

MARISHA: That's pretty good. Oh yeah, I'll take
that first roll, which was seven-- 27.

MATT: 27. You smell that on this floor, there
doesn't appear to be any duergar in your immediate

vicinity. There is a strong, lingering scent of
them coming from the doorway

that you're currently at.

MARISHA: A strong, lingering scent?

MATT: Correct, like it-- you can kind of tell
there was a recent moving of a large number of

duergar.

MARISHA: But probably not present.

MATT: You don't know.

MARISHA: Whatever. I guess we'll see what's in
here.

MATT: All righty.

MARISHA: Peeky, peeky.

LIAM: I kind of parkour past Percy.

MATT: Okay.

ORION: Parkour past Percy!

MARISHA: Parkour, parkour!

MATT: You open the doors into what appears to be a
large temple chamber, a place of worship. What you

see are a series of long, wooden benches that are
arranged to look towards the center. There is an

altar to the right that is a risen kind of stone
dais, and in the center there is a stone table, an

altar which has a piece of black cloth wrapped
over it and something on top of it you can't see

from this distance. In the center of the room
there is a 12-foot-tall statue of what looks like

an extremely strong armored duergar clutching a
giant warhammer and a shield.

MARISHA: Hm. I'm gonna-- oh wait, I'm a tiger.

MATT: Yup.

LIAM: I'm gonna perception check the room. Which
is high. 27.

MATT: 27? There does not appear to be anybody
inside this room.

LIAM: Screw this room.

MATT: However, do you have a religion--

TALIESIN: I would like to do a religion roll.

MATT: Roll religion, guys.

TALIESIN: Nine.

LIAM: Nine.

ASHLEY: Could I do a religion roll from where I
am?

MATT: You are not over there, unfortunately.

MARISHA: That's what I was gonna do, is tell
somebody to get Pike over here real quick.

LAURA: Do you guys have earrings?

ASHLEY: I can put on my sprinter's boots.

LIAM: Yeah, Pike, Pike? There's some sort of
religious artifacts over here. Could use your

expertise.

MATT: Pike, you make your way through, eventually
coming down this hallway--

(clanking)

MARISHA: She's coming! I can hear her coming.

ASHLEY: Hey guys, I'm here! Did you know I was
coming?

(laughter)

MATT: Go ahead and make a religion check.

LIAM: Don't stab anything.

ORION: I'm gonna follow suit, but slowly.

ASHLEY: 17.

MATT: All right. As you're heading that direction
slowly, best that you can tell right now, this

room is definitely a small temple built to-- and
the name kind of escapes you, the words trying to

form in your head for a second, and then
eventually you come to realize this is a chapel to

Laduguer. Laduguer is the deity of the duergar.
It's the god that basically freed them from their

original enslavement from the illithids, and they
worship as a pinnacle of power,

strength, and conquest.

ORION: I make it up to where those guys are.

MATT: All right.

TALIESIN: Let's keep searching.

SAM: Hey, what's the darkness right next to me? Is
there a door there? What is that?

MATT: There is a door right over here.

SAM: Oh. I'm gonna open it.

MATT: Okay. All right. So you go ahead and open
the door. It opens up into what you can

immediately see is a chamber that is some kind of
magical laboratory. You see in the far corner,

hunched, a robed duergar, and as you open the
door, there's a slight sound, a click sound, and a

jet of greenish fume begins to spray up into your
face. Make a constitution save.

SAM: Oh, god. I don't even know what that is!
(laughs) 15.

MATT: 15? All right.

So you take 11 points of poison damage.
However, you can feel the poison forcing its way

into your lungs. You manage to back out of the
cloud in time and cough it up and your general

physical well-being-- you resist most of the
effects of the poison. However, this poison fume

trap did appear to go off and as the smoke slowly
dissipates, you hear a chuckle

across the other side.

ORION: As I hear the noise, I--

MATT: You don't hear the noise, you're too far
away.

ORION: Oh, shit.

MATT: You guys do hear it, though.

LAURA: Okay, I come over there and see what the--
what just happened.

MATT: Okay, as you rush over, Scanlan's backed up
away and you can see there's this chamber here.

LAURA: Is the poison still in the air, or is it--

MATT: It's dissipated at this point. It's thin
enough. You still can smell it, and it smells

awful, like a very, very heavy, electrical
fire-type smell.

LAURA: So I can see that guy?

MATT: Yeah.

LAURA: So should I notch an arrow and try to hit
him?

MATT: It's up to you. What're you going to do?

LAURA: All right, I attack him, then!

MATT: All right, go for it then.

ASHLEY: Attack him! Get him!

LAURA: Shabang! Oh, dang it, I didn't do it. I
meant to Hunter's Mark him and transfer it over,

but that's okay, I didn't say it.

MATT: You didn't say it this time.

LAURA: That's 30. For the first.

LIAM: You did say shabang.

LAURA: I did say shabang, and 16 for the second.

MATT: Okay, both hit. Go ahead and roll damage on
each.

ASHLEY: Hit it.

(music flares up)

LAURA: Well, sort of. 15 and eight.

MATT: 15 and eight. All right.

LIAM: The music is on.

MATT: All right. So both arrows you've been firing
over the top. He's kind of hard to see with the

table and from being crouched in the corner, but
both arrows still manage to barely make their

mark. One kind of pins him against the wall, and
he looks at his shoulder briefly, looks back at

you, raises his hand, as he begins muttering
something under his breath. As he does, your arrow

(shnk) through his hand and he tries to shake it,
and now he's pinned to the wall with an arrow in

the middle of his hand.

LAURA and ASHLEY: Yeah!

LAURA: Trinket! Oh no, I used two attacks.

MATT: Yeah.

LAURA: Dang it.

MATT: You can still tell Trinket to move. What are
you gonna do?

LAURA: No, no no, I'm gonna hold him there, 'cause
he's already in the room.

MATT: Okay, got you. All right, so what are you
guys doing over in the temple?

LIAM: Exiting.

MATT: All right.

MARISHA: No! Look and see if there's anything
cool, first. What was that thing that's covered up

by the blanket on the altar?

MATT: You keep walking towards it?

MARISHA: Yeah. What's up with that?

MATT: You make your way, you look at the top of
the dais where the altar is, and on top you can

see the black cloth that is wrapped over it. The
scent gets to you before the actual visual. It's

freshly rotting flesh of some kind, and as you
glance over, you can see there is a heart that has

been cut from a body and it's at the point where
the blood has coagulated and begin to become

thick. It's roughly dwarven size.

MARISHA: I get up and I grab it in my mouth.

MATT: Okay. It tastes disgusting.

MARISHA: And then I walk over to Vax and I lay it
at his feet. I kind of nudge it with my nose.

MATT: She got you a heart.

LIAM: I scritch Keyleth behind the ear, but nudge
it aside with my toe and exit the room.

MATT: Okay.

LIAM: I did scritch her ears, but I'm going to
continue down to the end of the hall.

MATT: This way?

LIAM: Yeah.

MATT: Okay, you make your way into what looks like
a giant foyer, into a secondary entrance in the

side of the fortress.

LIAM: I just walk all the way over to the corner,
stealthing.

MATT: Make a stealth check.

LIAM: It's high, it's 28.

MATT: 28, got it, okay. So, as you make your way
through, you eventually careen to this corner. You

can see another hallway, what appears to be
another room of some kind. You also glance back

and see there are two sets of stairways that go up
and down.

LIAM: What's behind me?

MATT: This is a giant foyer that leads outside of
the fortress.

LIAM: And the edge of the map this way?

MATT: This way here? This way? This comes to an
abrupt end at that point, a rocky wall into the

mountain itself that it's buttressed up against.

LIAM: Okay, I'm gonna keep coming this way,
stealthing.

MATT: All right. As you move through--

LAURA: What's happening with that dude I-- are you
doing all this while I just pin down--

LIAM: Yeah. I don't know what's going on back
there. I'm just walking around.

MATT: So, you glance in this room. There's an open
walkway and what appears to be another barrack

section, also completely empty.

LIAM: Screw that. Do I see a door for this room
that's still darkened out? Then I'm gonna

keep sliding along the wall.

MATT: Okay, as you slide along here, to make your
way around to a door there.

LIAM: Okay. Pressing my hand, just to see if I can
check any for traps.

MATT: Okay.

LIAM: 26.

MATT: 26, all right. The door does not appear to
be trapped.

TALIESIN: I'm gonna be heading in that direction
anyway.

MARISHA: Agreed. Same here.

MATT: Okay.

LIAM: I would like to stealth through the door.

ORION: Before I leave, I carefully examine that
statue.

MATT: Okay, what are you examining?

ORION: The facial features of the god, the deity,
right? Is that what he is?

MATT: Yeah. Okay, so you look at the face of
Laduguer. You can see it's very, very old, it's

very well-crafted. You can see a lot of very
meticulous craftsmanship went into its creation.

It almost glistens with a perfection that is out
of place in an area that is so covered in soot and

various other volcanic activity-based mineral
deposits.

ORION: I'm gonna do a quick arcana check, just to
see if there's any kind of mystical thing around

it or anything like that. And it's 19.

MATT: Okay. There is some sort of a hum to the air
that has an arcane element to it, but you are

unable to pinpoint what it necessarily means or
what the source is.

ORION: Interesting. Knowing that, I kind of gather
my thoughts and I head towards where the rest of

the group is.

MATT: Okay, so, while you're opening the door, the
mage in the far corner kind of looks about

sporadically and looks down at the arrow in its
hand and its shoulder and just kind of fearfully,

"Wait wait wait! Wait. Stop. Don't attack. Let's
have a conversation."

LAURA: Speak fast. Before I kill you.

MATT: He leans forward, kind of pulling the arrow
out of the doorway. (groans in pain) Starts

hobbling towards you a little bit.

LAURA: Can we all-- we go in the room and Trinket
goes up next to him and, like,

gets all up in his face?

MATT: Okay. As you both enter, both of you make
constitution saving throws. As two more plumes of

poison (pff) out of the ground as both you and
Trinket walk in.

LIAM: Good.

LAURA: 15?

MATT: 15, okay. And for Trinket as well.

LAURA: Oh, I should've been so smart, but I
wasn't.

(laughter)

LAURA: 14 for Trinket.

MATT: Okay. You take seven points of poison
damage.

LAURA: Okay.

MATT: Trinket, however, takes 14 points of poison
damage.

LAURA: Oh man. What did I get, seven?

MATT: Seven. And Trinket is currently considered
poisoned.

LAURA: Oh no!

SAM: What does that mean?

MATT: It means disadvantage on attack rolls,
disadvantage on ability checks.

LAURA: That's okay.

MATT: And now there's a bear coughing and kind of
thrashing about the room. The table it bumps into

and it kind of topples over.

LAURA: Is this like a turn thing or can I do
something?

MATT: Well, this is just a reactionary moment of
you guys coughing and trying to get out of this

poisonous fume.

LAURA: I mean, can I quickly cast Protection from
Poison on Trinket?

MATT: You can, yes.

LAURA: Okay. I do that.

MATT: Okay.

LAURA: And that cures it.

MATT: That completely removes the poison?

LAURA: Yes it does.

MATT: Okay.

LAURA: Yay Trinket!

MATT: Well done. So that's your action. You now,
as you are checking the door and you open it up,

you hear all this commotion going off to the side
now. Scanlan, you're over there as well, watching

as more plumes of these poisonous smoke bits.

SAM: If I get close to the door without going
through it, can I see the guy?

MATT: You can move over and look, you can just
barely make out his form. It is a dark room that

is currently filled with a slowly dissipating
green cloud so it's hard to make him out.

SAM: Okay, well then I will just-- fuck (laughs).
Well, if I can't see him

then I will just yell at him.

MATT: All right.

SAM: I'll yell with Vicious Mockery. I don't like
you very much for poisoning me and my friends,

you're a poopy head!

(laughter)

MARISHA: So vicious.

LAURA: That is threatening.

MARISHA: Damn.

SAM: Ooh. That does seven points of damage.

MATT: Seven points from Vicious Mockery? All
right!

(laughter)

MATT: I don't know how that works.

SAM: It's Vicious Mockery. It's an attack.

MATT: That's crazy.

LIAM: That's, like, 80 points of damage!

MARISHA: And who said that words couldn't hurt
people?

TALIESIN: And bonus damage to his mother, wherever
she may be.

MARISHA: Sticks and stones can break my bones, but
words can hurt.

MATT: Okay. So it has to make a will saving throw,
against your DC. It rolls a three. It does not.

So, as you shout out into this room, the currently
fearful duergar mage kind of glances, eyes slide

about, hears these words and you see him wrack his
head for a second with a sudden sense of

self-loathing and disappointment.

(laughter)

MATT: His hands drop and it looks like for a
minute his intent to begin muttering some sort of

incantation is momentarily distracted.

ORION: Nice!

MATT: All right, awesome.

ASHLEY: Can I start moving back?

MATT: Yeah, you can start moving back this way.

LIAM: I hear that, but I'm still going to poke my
head stealthily through the door and see what I

see. Do I need a new stealth check or?

MATT: Yes you do.

LIAM: Okay, great. So that is a 32.

MATT: All right, you glance inside at what looks
to be some sort of a training room. There are--

most of the floor itself is stone, and in the far
corner there is a large section that is mainly

just sand and dirt and there are a number of
wooden training structures. You know, various

shields and wooden bars that are used as a means
of training for weaponry. There's what looks like

a giant rack of weapons, full of arms and stuff.

LIAM: Anything good-looking?

MATT: Go ahead and make a perception check.

LIAM: One.

MATT: Most of the materials in this room look like
the basic duergar fare.

LIAM: These don't look very good.

TALIESIN: I was going to run in and take a look
around anyway so--

MATT: (laughs) Okay. As you run in, go ahead and
make a dexterity saving throw.

TALIESIN: God damn it. Okay.

SAM: (sings) Traps, traps, traps-traps-traps.

TALIESIN: 24.

MATT: All right, so. You take ten points of
lightning damage as you feel a tile on the ground

trigger and then spring up, and as it does, you
hear this sudden high-pitched whine as blue energy

streaks up from the floor, runs through your body.
Thankfully, you manage to dive out of the way and

touch the ground to ground the energy, minimizing
the damage. But yeah, you triggered (laughs)

triggered a trap plate. You're beginning to get
the sense that a lot of this tactic of this

fortress now has been to lead you guys through
a--

MARISHA: Maze?

MATT: A maze of traps.

SAM: A labyrinth.

LIAM: Before we hurt ourselves any longer, we
should--

LAURA: We've got to kill this guy. Or talk to him
at least.

LIAM: We need to get to the main event here.

MATT: All right. At this point, Kima is now-- As
Kima hears you shouting all these curses into the

room, Kima pushes past you, and pushes past you.
You can see Kima coming into the room behind you

guys. Steps over the broken table, down in front
of the circle, and grabs the mage by the front of

his robe, pulling him into her face. The mage at
this point is still kind of reeling from the fact

that you managed to strike him so deeply in the
heart of his hearts.

SAM: He's just not a nice man.

MATT: However, Kima, with a look of absolute death
in her face, grabs him and pulls him forward and

says, "Listen, where is the rest of your fucking
army?"

She's going to make an intimidation check.

TALIESIN: Yeah! Damn.

MATT: He does not succeed in resisting that.

LAURA: Yes!

MATT: The duergar is pressed against the wall now,
and she's slamming him against the back of a

bookshelf. "Look, all right, they're
waiting for you up there, all right? You're not

"going to survive this. At this point, the entire
city's probably waiting for you in the outside of

"the fortress and those that are upstairs are
well-prepared. Okay? Your best chance of survival

"is laying down your arms and surrendering. I'm
looking out for your best interests here."

LIAM: Kill this asshole.

MARISHA: Kill him.

MATT: Kima, who is still holding him against
there, you can see her hand releases the scruff

and he takes a deep breath for a second. But
before he can finish exhaling, she goes in,

immediately grabbing his throat and squeezing it
extremely tight. As she does, you see his tongue,

dangling out the side of his mouth (strangling
noises) as she's cutting off his entire air

supply. She pulls forward and takes the greatsword
and begins to slowly push it into his abdomen. As

she does, he starts screaming in terrible pain.
You can see her just slowly pushing the blade

through his body into the bookcase behind. As she
does, she goes, "You're gonna tell me, right now,

"who they have waiting for us upstairs." As she
begins to push all the way to the hilt now, he's

pinned up against the bookcase and probably a
portion of the stonework behind him. He's now got

blood pouring out the sides of his face and
outside the front of his nose. The duergar being held

up against the wall says, "Whatever you haven't
killed. The army's probably up with the king

"himself. They're all waiting for you and I hope
they piss on your body when they're done!" At

which point she takes the blade and twists it. As
she does, he gives this guttural yelp and his eyes

just go blank. Blanker than the duergar eyes
normally are.

ORION: I make it to the doorway and go, what is
going on in here?

LAURA: Are there any-- taking that in-- any
healing potions or anything in

here that we could use?

MATT: Go ahead and make an investigation check.

SAM: Can I look at the door and see if the trap
will go off again if we step through it again?

MATT: Perception check.

SAM: 20.

MATT: Looks like, from glancing about the room and
getting a feel for it, there were three traps that

were all placed directly at the front of the door,
basically to give him a point of defense, they've

all been triggered, so you don't have to worry
about any more in this room.

LAURA: Is this still considered the Underdark?

MATT: This is, yes.

LAURA: Oh, cool!

SAM: I'm going to go in and look around some
more.

MATT: You're looking around as well?

SAM: Look around for potions and stuff.

LAURA: Oh, that's considered the-- aw, I could have
been rolling twice for all these damn things!

MATT: (sings) Remember your abilities.

LAURA: (sings) 25.

MATT: Okay.

SAM: Who's the singer here, people?

MATT: Sorry, Scanlan. So, as Kima pulls the blade
from its body, kicking it off the greatsword and

wiping it across the leather on the side-- the
leather that you gave to her! And a little part of

you is like, (sadly) hmm.

LIAM: That's all right. Worth it. This halfling's
hot.

MATT: So you guys made your way back, Clarota's
there, against the corner, and Grog rushes over,

just feeling like he was ready for action. "What's
going on?"

ASHLEY: You're too late.

MARISHA: This might be a good time to stop for a
moment.

MATT: That's up to you guys, as I say, do you guys
want to take a short rest?

LAURA: Did I find any potions? Did I find
anything?

MATT: Yes. Glancing around the room, you manage to
find two potions of healing, one potion of

superior healing.

ALL: Ooh.

LAURA: What is that? That's major.

MARISHA: That's cool.

MATT: You also find one vial of some sort of
weird, viscous yellow liquid

that you cannot identify.

MARISHA: Oh, don't open that. Who knows how long
those guards had to be staked out here?

Don't open that.

SAM: Can I do a-- can I investigate it or arcana
it?

MATT: Sure, you can give it a go.

SAM: Yeah. That's a one.

LAURA: Oh good.

SAM: Oh wait, no, that's a seven. These dice are
horrible. Anyway, it doesn't matter. It's bad.

MATT: It looks delicious. No, actually, you can't
make out, it has some changing color as you kind

of swirl the bottle and watch the texture inside
shift and change with the centrifugal force. You

can't make out anything about its intent, but it
does feel like it's a potion

created with some effect.

SAM: Tiberius, do you want to drink this?

ORION: No! What is it? I check it for 18.

SAM: For what?

ORION: For whatever you're trying to hand to me.

MATT: 18 arcana? Okay. You take a look at it. It
definitely is magical, you don't have a lot of

experience with alchemy but you gather that the
effect that it would have upon imbibement would be

to alter your physical form in some way, you just
don't know the specific effects.

ORION: Absolutely, Scanlan, I'll take that for
now. And I put it in my pouch.

TALIESIN: Let's take a short rest.

MATT: So, as you guys all kind of enter this room,
this brief safe zone to take a short rest, if you

feel you want to heal yourself up and regain any
short rest-based abilities, do so.

MARISHA: Can we talk about what this duergar just
told us?

LAURA: Can we go to the bathroom before we do
that?

MATT: That's what I was going to say. We can
return-- So we're going to take a quick bathroom

break, we're going to play the videos again, we'll
return here in just a second, as the next element

of the attack on Emberhold continues.

MARISHA: Oh, and this is your last chance because
after the break we'll pick a winner for the

Espionage giveaway. So, last chance if you want to
tweet @EspionageMakeup and #CriticalRole and look

at our sweet nails! They're awesome. They're
cool.

MATT: (whispers) Galaxies! All right, see you guys
in a second.

ORION: I have text and whatnot.

[break]

MATT: Welcome back, guys! All right, so we've had
ourselves sufficiently rested.

ZAC: Indeed we have. We have a Tabletop Promo Day
kit to give away, because you guys got the 50 subs

since we started today.

MATT: Which is awesome.

ZAC: And we'll give away another one with another
signed poster at the end of the night if you get

another 50. So we're about to give this away, but
I just want to remind you guys to donate to 826LA.

That's the group that Critical Role is supporting,
and these guys are here out of the graces of their

heart, and it would be very helpful for you guys
to donate to them and show your love for Critical

Role by donating to the charity. We'll post the
link in the chat. Get those donations rolling!

MATT: Awesome.

ZAC: Zac out!

MATT: All right, thank you, Zac! Couple of quick
things. You wanted to announce the Espionage--

MARISHA: Yes! Our winner for the Espionage Bath
Bombs Tabletop from @espionagemakeup goes to

(drumroll) Danny Carr. Who is @Eleine35. So,
Danny, I'm pretty sure you follow me on Twitter,

just PM me your address and I'll get these out to
you. And thank you!

MATT: Yeah, did you follow him? Because you have
to follow him--

MARISHA: Oh, I have to follow-- Oh, well then I'll
follow Danny right now.

MATT: Awesome! Also, as a heads-up, guys, we've
had some people perpetually asking us about the

shirts that we made.

ORION: You mean these shirts?

MATT: That shirt right there. So, we have a-- it's
a temporary-- it's very basic, but we have up, if

you guys ever want to go to critrole.com, we have
a limited run of those shirts currently available

for purchase.

MARISHA: Very limited, like once they're gone,
they're gone.

LAURA: It's less than-- probably less than 15 of
each size, less than that, probably. It was a

small amount.

LIAM: I was wearing mine earlier today and I only
rolled 20s. Only.

MARISHA: It's true. So, it's www.critrole.com,
and, yeah, and the site is still under

construction, so. But we managed to rush it out,
and I wanna give a huge shout-out to Michael

Whitesman, who's a big friend of ours, for helping
us make the website

ORION: Thanks, Whitey!

MARISHA: @whitesly, if you want to bug him, and,
yeah, so, if you buy--

ORION: That's his nickname! It's not like a--

MARISHA: Whitesly! His last name is Whitesly.

ORION: I know. But I said, "What's up Whitey,"
like, to him personally, and then they look at me

like, "Oh my lord, that's so racist."

(laughter)

ORION: And I'm like, no, no, it's his nickname.
It's okay.

MATT: That is actually his nickname.

LIAM: I'm just sad that you don't call me Whitey.

ORION: I mean, I can.

LIAM: Okay. Let's start. After this game.

MARISHA: Anyways. Anyways, you can go buy t-shirts
now, which was the whole point of that. At

critrole.com. And there's a limited run. Once
they're gone, they're gone.

MATT: The cost includes shipping. We'll get--
we're packaging them ourselves. We'll have,

hopefully, more in the future, but this is the
first attempt at trying to do something like this

for you guys, so--

MARISHA: Yeah. We're doing this all ourselves just
to, just 'cause-- See how this works. You guys--

LAURA: And that includes the shipping, that's why
the price is--

ASHLEY: So future t-shirts-- Were you guys saying
something, like it would be artwork from--

MARISHA: Yes, this was, we got this from
@rusegafdi. He wore this at Tabletop Day, so--

LAURA: A very similar design, so yeah.

MARISHA: Yeah, so we're-- we decided we're going
to do, like, fan-designed t-shirts. So, once every

so often, we'll do a fan-designed t-shirt, and
yes. And then--

but they'll all be limited, so yeah!

MATT: Yeah. Shipping, shipping is included with
the price, guys, don't worry. But yeah. So,

anyway, check that out! Thank you guys so much,
and let's go ahead

and get back to the game proper.

CREW: Hey, the t-shirts are sold out already.
They're now sold out. They bought all of them.

MARISHA: T-shirts are sold out!

ORION: Wait, what?

TALIESIN: We didn't even finish telling you
people!

LAURA: No they're not.

TALIESIN: Let us finish our sentence first!

MATT: Okay, so, so, so the limited run was very
limited--

MARISHA: Holy shit!

MATT: I guess we'll have to order some more,
then.

SAM: Uh, mental note: make more t-shirts.

MARISHA: We didn't know! We didn't know!

MATT: We were gauging interest. I guess there's
interest.

MARISHA: I'm sorry! Now I almost feel guilty.
Congratulations to the 100 people who got 'em.

ORION: Hold on. Tiberius is gonna work some magic,
and then try to conjure up a few more. He was

unaware there was a shortage of, of those-- okay.

MATT: Sorry, guys, all right, well, we'll-- thank
you guys very much,

we'll get more to you very soon.

MARISHA: I don't know what to say! Oh god, I'm
like, going to cry.

LAURA: Second run, yeah! Just hashtag them
critical role and we'll-- oh, but if you're

selling them already, there's
somebody that's making really cool t-shirts on

Redbubble, but if you're making them there, like,
we can't print them too, so, like, just submit

them to us, and then we can--

MATT: Yeah, we'll figure it out! Anyway, guys,
thank you so much! Let's get to the game!

TALIESIN: Thank you! Cool!

SAM: Guys, guys, the chatroom just solved the
Israeli-Palestinian conflict!

(laughter)

MATT: Thank you so much, chat! Nice.

TALIESIN: We've got a box of stuff coming right
for you right now. Thank you.

MARISHA: Oh my god, I'm like, shaking.

MATT: All right, so. For all who didn't get 'em,
we'll have more soon, I promise.

LIAM: Do you guys like D&D? What is that?

MARISHA: (laughs) We didn't know if people liked
our show or not!

MATT: So. So. So, you've housed yourselves into this
enchanting room, this magical laboratory, and

taken about a 15-minute rest. You're able to use
any of your unused hit dice to heal yourself up if

need be. Any--

ASHLEY: Oh, well, where's everybody at? 'Cause
maybe I can just do a-- some healing up.

TALIESIN: I just spent a healing surge, so.

LAURA: Well, he's, well, as far as health goes--

LIAM: I'm low, yeah, I'm pretty low.

ASHLEY: Yeah, what are you at?

MATT: How many hit dice do you have left?

LIAM: I know, I have, I don't have that many left.
I'm at, like-- I accidentally erased it, but I

believe I'm at 30?

ASHLEY: Ooh, yeah, you-- I need to, I'll get on
that. Anybody else? What's everybody at?

SAM: I can sing to you and give you an extra
little roll.

LIAM: I'd like you to sing to me, either in the
game or on another day.

SAM: Are you Vex or Vax? (laughs)

LIAM: I'm Vix.

SAM: All right, I'll sing to you and-- are you
gonna use a dice?

LIAM: Thank you. Ah, let me see how beautiful your
song is

SAM: (sings) Heal the Vax, make him a better elf.

SAM and ASHLEY: (sings) For you and for me and the
entire adventuring band.

SAM: (sings) There are duergar dying, if you cared
enough for the adventurers, you'd bring Vax back

to help us with the stabby-stab. Thank you, thank
you, thank you.

LIAM: And please, vaccinate your kids.

(laughter)

LIAM: I mean, don't Vax-inate them.

MATT: Yeah, there's the difference. All right, so.

SAM: You get a 1d6 for that.

MATT: So, an extra 1d6 healing to anyone.

LIAM: Who needs more than one? Three, okay.

ASHLEY: I healed you, 18, which was actually low,
but I rolled really high for each roll.

That's my--

LIAM: Oh, thanks. That's very good. Okay, great, I
am almost tip-top condition, thank you.

I have a blister.

MATT: So, as you guys manage to pull yourself out
of your rest mode, you now glance out, and the

hallway's still quiet, you can hear the movement
of footsteps up above you. What is your intent?

SAM: To win!

MARISHA: Okay. Wait, what are we gonna do, 'cause
here's-- there's an army waiting upstairs for us?

LIAM: They know we're up there, but Kima needs her
stuff, and we need to kind of

put an end to this problem.

MARISHA: I'm gonna hop out of tiger form, by the
way, since we rested and stuff.

SAM: Wait, they're above us?

LIAM: Yeah, they're all upstairs, including the
mind flayer who vanished from the room we're in,

so I'm sure he told everyone what's going on. But
they don't know we've found the secret entrance,

so I think we should go-- Vex'ahlia's correct, we
should use the stairwell

near the secret entrance.

ORION: Are we sure there's no other way out of
here, through this particular floor?

Is that the only exit?

LAURA: There's-- I mean, there's the front
entrance, there's that door over there, there's

like two other stairways, but we should use this
back one, by the back entrance.

LIAM: Also, Lady Kima, our purpose here was to
find you, but your purpose is somewhat greater

than our own. What do you suggest we do in this
moment?

MATT: As she stands up, and she holds the
greatsword and swings it a bit. "What I'm seeking

"lies deeper into this cavern. Whatever is at the
heart of this illithid scourge." And she glances

over at Clarota-- who's in the back corner, hands
folded-- and there's a slight mental hiss sound in

her direction. "There's something far darker at
the heart of this temple. I've seen it. But I have

"my thoughts and my ideas, but I need confirmation
before I speak of any doom-saying. However, the

"link between those foul creatures and the assault
that's currently mounting against Kraghammer lie

"upstairs at the center of this duergar people."

SAM: Oh, here? Here at-- where we are now? Yes,
here?

MATT: "The link between this K'varn character--"

LIAM: And let me ask you this. We can be on the
same page, we can go up and fuck shit up. However,

your weapons and armor-- would they be a great
help? Should they be our short-term purpose, or

should we just go up and try to end this problem?

MATT: "To be honest, we've entirely lost the
element of surprise. I would not wish to sacrifice

"as foolishly for a few additional trinkets of my
own when I feel that this should do well enough,

"as long as we manage to work together and be smart
about this."

LAURA: So we should potentially just leave this
castle for now and go find K'varn, rest up--

SAM: No, no, no.

LIAM: No, Kima is saying this is the main event.

SAM: She just said there's a link upstairs. The
link from-- to K'varn that we need to--

LAURA: I get it! Okay. Yeah.

MATT: "How do you think K'varn is able to send
these armies up again and again towards the back

"door of Kraghammer?"

LAURA: Right.

MATT: "Besides, if we go on and leave them as they
are, who's to say they wouldn't come up behind us,

"and then we're fighting a two-sided front once we
get there?"

LAURA: Then let's-- We gotta go upstairs.

LIAM: Vox Machina, our years are short. Let's make
good use of them.

SAM: Let's leave this decision up to Grog.

ORION: Absolutely not!

(laughter)

MATT: Grog's standing there clutching his
greataxe. "I say, I haven't been able to kill much

"since we got here. Let's kill something!"

ORION: That's a terrible idea.

LAURA: Have some ale before we go out, Grog.

MATT: "Oh, yeah, of course." And he goes into his
bag of holding, and pulls out his now half-empty

cask, and you see him frown as he hears it clink
around. He pours everyone a small drink, to what

is now an empty cask.

LAURA: This could potentially kill us all.

TRAVIS: Vox Machina.

ALL: Vox Machina!

LAURA: Scanlan had a great idea, though. Should we
talk about what Scanlan wants to do?

SAM: Ah, yes, I have an idea. But also, are there
two stairs up to the top floor?

LIAM: There's multiple.

SAM: Perhaps we should use more than one. One,
half of our band go up, create a diversion. The

other half sneak up and kill, kill, kill. That's
one option. The other option--

LIAM: Pike leads the diversion group.

ASHLEY: Definitely the stealthy ones with me.

(laughter)

SAM: Ah, I do have an idea about gaining the upper
hand on our first meeting with this army that's

upstairs. An intimidation technique of some sort.

MARISHA: You're not going to kill another pony,
are you?

SAM: I can't anymore.

MARISHA: Good.

SAM: Much as I would love to. No, but we've heard
over our eavesdropping that some of these duergar

bastards are scared of that strange chimera sort
of hodgepodge, human centipede thing? We could be

one of those with a little bit of deception, and
all of us sort of piling on each other. We could

act like a big scary monster and go up and freak
the fuck out of them.

MARISHA: Ah! That's actually a really good idea.

LAURA: -- all of us piled on Grog and Trinket and
you as the bases, and we become this--

SAM: They would probably be, at least for the
moment, intimidated a bit, and we could get a few

licks in before they realized we're just a pile of
idiots running at them.

(laughter)

LAURA: I like it.

MARISHA: So we're basically gonna be like three
kids Little Rascals-style on each other's

shoulders with a giant coat?

SAM: But that could be the diversion, at least.

MARISHA: Okay, well then, why don't-- I actually
like this idea. Why don't we have a few of our

stealthy members, why don't we have the twins be
in the shadows, and picking people off while--

LAURA: That's true, 'cause I've got range, so that
makes sense.

MARISHA: Right, why don't we have some of our
ranged people-- I'll transform. I can transform

into-- how about a giant scorpion? That sounds
fun.

SAM: Can you transform into anything?

MARISHA: I can transform into beasts. They have to
be beasts.

SAM: How about the type of beast that we know
would scare them, like that big triceratops thing

that we saw with the big metal thing on it.

MARISHA: I can be a rhinoceros-- I can be, like--
Can I do dinosaurs? I can be a dinosaur, right?

That's a new thing I can be, right?

MATT: Up to a certain point.

LIAM: What if you were a scorpion, with a
dragonborn tail sliding around and a gnome on your

front leg and a--

MARISHA: Well here's, oh wait wait, okay, okay,
okay, okay, okay, okay, hang on, hang on, hang on,

this might be crazy-- wonder what would
happen if I drank that weird yellowish potion?

While I'm a monster?

LAURA: No, It could be poison, though.

MARISHA: But I'm wondering if you can, like, if I
can transform into a monster and then you with

Polymorph can maybe just transform.

ORION: Stop talking, stop talking! Hold on.

(laughter)

MARISHA: You don't have to snap at me.

ORION: No, no, no, you're brilliant, your
highness.

MARISHA: Oh, thank you. I mean.

ORION: I have an idea, I have an idea.

LIAM: We're off the rails, here.

LAURA: Tell it to us, Tiberius, what's the idea?

SAM: Does it involve shitting on a bed?

(laughter)

ORION: Eventually, actually, yes.

TALIESIN: Aren't you empty yet?

ORION: This is what's going to happen. As far as
we know, they're all duergar up there, correct?

LAURA: Mostly, except for the mind flayers. And
another big monster probably, they might have--

ASHLEY: Which I saw in a vision. I think that's
what's controlling them

LAURA: Oh no, that's K'varn. No, no, no, he's at
the other one.

ASHLEY: Sorry, read it wrong.

ORION: This is what will happen. Those who can go
stealth, we will creep up there. I will go

invisible myself. I will be in front. You closely
behind me.

SAM: He has a name.

ORION: Vax. There we go. You closely behind me,
and whoever else can stealth follows suit. I will

cast Alter Self and turn myself into their god.

SAM: Their god?

ALL: K'varn?

MARISHA: But you don't know what he looks like.

LAURA: Oh, or into that other thingie.

ORION: I absolutely know what he looks like.

MATT: You mean Laduguer?

ORION: We just saw his statue.

MARISHA: Well. that's not K'varn though.

ORION: But that's who they worship. As I give my,
whatever the hell I come up with to say at that

particular time--

SAM: Maybe you should think it first, think it
through first.

ORION: As soon as the mind flayers catch on, and I
turn to Clarota, and I turn to Kima, that's when

all of you will strike at them first. The rest of
you will wait 'til I shoot off a couple of

Fireballs at the duergar once they figure out
we're full of crap. 'Cause I'm sure that might

happen unless I'm super convincing, which I hope
that's the case-- But I think that's our best bet

to keep a certain element of surprise.

MARISHA: So wait, so wait, are you going to be
their god, and I'm still going to also be a crazy

monster, as like your pet crazy monster, with our
stealthy team, or just--

TALIESIN: I think the only thing better than their
god would be their god on top of a giant

scorpion.

LAURA and MARISHA: Ooh!

LIAM: I have faith in you, Tiberius.

MARISHA: You'll be like Xerxes.

ASHLEY: Can I cast, 'cause I've been wanting to
use Thaumaturgy. Which can make your voice three

times as louder.

MATT: At the moment he would be speaking, yeah.

ASHLEY: At the moment he'd be speaking, okay, so
let's do that.

LAURA: Oh, that's going to be so cool.

MARISHA: Some theatrics.

LIAM: I love it when a good plan comes together.

SAM: So some of us are stealthing, you're being a
big god who talks loud and is riding a scorpion.

ASHLEY: So maybe I'll tuck behind him, on top of
you the scorpion, and then when you're getting

ready to talk I'll just (whoosh) and then you'll--
your voice will be, you know, you'll have--

LIAM: Yeah, that's good, that's good.

SAM: How about this-- so, just to clarify, are we
all going up the same staircase, or are we going

up two separate staircases, Vex and Vax--

LAURA: I think we should just go up the same
staircase. There's too many of them. If we split

up we could just all die.

SAM: You don't know what-- there could be a
million rooms up there.

LIAM: We have no idea what's up there, but
Tiberius has got a plan, I like it.

LAURA: If he's the god, we just go in behind him
as the god.

ASHLEY: What if we did like your Dimension Door?
Is it too not very god-like if he's coming up the

staircase like, hey?

SAM: The Dimension Door's off the table.

LIAM: Tiberius, Tiberius. Tibs.

SAM: But don't use the god thing. But don't use
the god thing until we get to the big group. The

big thing, if you see a guard, don't turn into a
god, you gotta see like more than five people

before you turn into a god.

LIAM: Tiberius.

ORION: Yes, Vax?

LIAM: Do you intend to go up one of the other
stairways? I believe this one by the entrance, the

secret entrance we came in, will afford us the
element of surprise. Do you think you want to go

up one of the others?

ORION: No, let's go up that one.

LIAM: And make a distraction, right? Your plan is
to make a distraction.

ORION: Yes, of course.

LIAM: You're a brave dragonborn.

MARISHA: I'm going to cast Pass Without a Trace on
the party. Everyone stay close.

LIAM: Who's the stealth party, not you, you and
me, you.

MARISHA: Well, all of us, all of us I guess, until
we get upstairs.

LAURA: Potentially all of us will be stealthed
except for Tiberius, and you who is a scorpion,

and you who's riding behind Tiberius.

ASHLEY: I'm riding on her, so I probably won't be
rolling for stealth.

MATT: Uh.

ASHLEY: Just kidding.

MATT: You'll be rolling.

ASHLEY: I probably won't roll well, just putting
it out there.

MATT: You hear in the back of your mind this
subtle, soft, echoing chuckle. "You're all crazy.

"I like it."

(laughter)

MATT: At which point, Kima, who's listening to all
this with a look of kind of awe and curiosity

says, "You know, for once? I actually agree with
the thing."

(laughter)

MATT: "All right." Takes her greatsword in her
hands. "Lead the way."

ASHLEY: So you guys are stealthing up first?

MARISHA: We all have Pass Without a Trace as long
as you stand close enough.

LIAM: Wait, wait for the inspiration.

SAM: I have some inspiration dice to give out,
that I can give out as bonus actions. Can I give

it out before we go into battle?

MATT: I would say like momentarily, right
beforehand.

SAM: Okay, good to know. But I can't mass give it
out, just have to give it to one person.

MATT: It's one of those things where it has to be
in the moment when the adrenaline's pumping, I

think, for it to last into the combat.

SAM: Okay, and do we want to send Clarota and Kima
off through a different staircase so we have at

least a backup plan?

LAURA: No, no, no stick together. Too big of a
group of an army upstairs to split us up.

LIAM: Don't split the party.

SAM: In those action movies, when there's one guy
who goes away for a while, he comes back at the

end and saves the day. If we did that--

LAURA: That's not going to be us!

LIAM: We few, we happy few.

(laughter)

LIAM: About to go and do something very stupid.
Let's do it.

MATT: So you are venturing up which stairway?

LAURA: The secret one, the one by-- in the storage
room.

MATT: All right. So. You guys--

MARISHA: We got this. We got this.

LAURA: Oh no, Grog fell over. Oh my gosh.

MARISHA: It's been a good day. What are you going
to say? Are you thinking about this?

Think about something.

ORION: Okay.

MARISHA: Start thinking about this now.

LIAM: There are rooms up there.

TALIESIN: What's the name of the god again?

MARISHA: Laduguer.

ASHLEY: Can I take off my armor right now?

MATT: You'd become a soft target. All right, you
guys all make your way up, and you're all

squeezing into this tiny, tiny room. You're all
shoulder-to-shoulder, essentially. You come up to

the top area, there's a small box, and there is
just a single stone door.

LAURA: Check for traps.

LIAM: Excuse me, sorry, sorry, sorry, sorry,
sorry, sorry, sorry, sorry, excuse me Kima, sorry,

sorry, All right, my hands are on the door. I'm
going to check for traps on this door.

I get a 21.

MATT: Okay, you take a moment and you place your
hand along this stone surface. You find that

there's a low hum to it.

LIAM: Careful, careful, careful.

MATT: And you can tell that there's a small,
almost like a thin whisper of string laid across

the very top of the stone, where the wall meets
it.

LIAM: Of course I can, of course I can. I'm going
to take care of this, hold on. Yeah, this is

thieves' tools, correct? 26.

MATT: 26, okay. You come up and you find that this
is a very, very fine hair trigger. This is

actually a partial enchantment as part of a
magical trap. You know that with the slightest

hint of false vibration to it, the door shifting
or hitting it in the wrong place will trigger

whatever this trap is. And so you bring your tools
up, you manage to place one at the base of each

point at where this arcane silver thread lies
across. Simultaneously, you take your daggers and

place them underneath the thread at each ends and
sever them both at the same time. The thin whisper

of a string just slowly glides down and vanishes
into a small sparkle of light.

SAM: Cut the red wire.

LIAM: I'm just going to lay my ear on the door and
see what I can hear. That is 21.

MATT: Hearing it, you hear what sounds like a low
mutter of somewhere in the neighbourhood of ten to

15 low voices, and the slow, small shuffling of
many, many, many, many footsteps.

LIAM: Shuffling, you said? And if I listen for a
moment, do I-- does it continue?

MATT: It, kind of, couple of footsteps, some
talking, soft footprints. You can hear the

scraping of metal--

LIAM: And it's the only way we can go is through
this door, right?

We're all smooshed into this hallway--

MATT: There is a hallway this way.

LAURA: Oh, so we stealth down the other hall, we
try.

LIAM: So I mooshed everyone away from this hall.

MATT: The whispers and voices aren't directly on
the other side of this wall, they're just in that

room echoing through, but you do hear a lot of
people there. All right, so, what are you doing?

LAURA: Well, well, stealthing down that hallway.
Can we check for traps, check for traps, I look,

I'm perceiving.

MATT: (laughs) Roll for perceiving

(laughter)

LIAM: 23 for Vax.

LAURA: Oh, I get twice that, good. Oh, good, that
was way better.

MATT: (laughs)

LAURA: Ten.

MATT: Okay, no traps.

LAURA: Yay!

MATT: You both glide your way up and peek around
the corner. What you see immediately are six

duergar all stationed in this hallway guarding
what looks like two large doors and entrance to

this main chamber. And they're all just standing
there, weapons ready, looking around.

SAM: Wait, which is the main chamber that you
just--

MATT: This big chamber here that you--

SAM: Oh, that we were listening to at the door.

LIAM: Vax sneaks back to the group and motions
Tiberius over, and Keyleth over.

SAM: We're doing this?

LIAM: One moment, one moment. Lightning,
Lightning, who knows Lightning?

MARISHA: Are you gonna try to Lightning Bolt an
entire line?

LIAM: Do you know the magic of lightning? I've
seen you do it before, I've seen you.

MARISHA: I do know it right now.

LIAM: You know it? Anyone who knows Lightning,
I've seen it done on the battlefield with us,

person to person to person.

SAM: I can do it.

MATT: Who is up once again, clearing his throat in
your presence.

SAM: Hi! Scanlan here.

LIAM: Scanlan, you know how to harness the power
of electricity.

SAM: I don't wanna brag, but I'm a regular Ben
Franklin over here. He's a guy, he's a gnome I

knew once.

MARISHA: Scanlan, can you and I focus our Call
Lightning spells together? To Lightning these--

SAM: I mean, mine's so fricking powerful.

LIAM: If Scanlan and one of the others does
Lightning at the same time and it goes through

that line, we could drop them all at once.

LAURA: But that's noisy, they'll come out.

LIAM: It's not that noisy, it's not like armor
banging around.

LAURA: I think it's gonna be noisy, it's not a
stealthy attack.

TALIESIN: It's a quick way to get rid of six
people, though.

ORION: Oh, is that what we need to do?

LIAM: There's a row of duergar around the corner,
they're all in a line like Radio City, we just--

if I can get-- Scanlan, if you-- what about you,
Keyleth? Do I remember light-- or do you bring it

down from above? Tiberius.

ORION: What, what?

SAM: Do you want me to shock 'em?

ORION: Oh, I have an idea. Okay, I'll peek
around.

MATT: Okay, make a stealth check.

ORION: Sweet.

MARISHA: You have plus ten because of my Pass
Without a Trace.

LIAM: You've got six duergar in a row. Is there
anything you can do that's--

ORION: 27.

MATT: That's when you see this long row of duergar
that are all kind of armored and ready, guarding

the front of this chamber.

ORION: I cast Watery Sphere at the end of the last
guy and create a giant ball.

LIAM: Wait, you're doing it now?

ORION: What does it look like, Vax?

MATT: Okay, so this giant water sphere appears. At
which side of the wall?

ORION: On the last guy. Yeah, and I draw it
towards us.

LIAM: Vax is grabbing the gnome and tossing him
out to the right,

out here at the front of the group.

ORION: And I stop at the last guy.

MATT: Okay, as the water sphere begins to pull in.
Saving throws, what's your DC?

ORION: My spell DC, 17.

MATT: This is a dexterity save? All right.

SAM: One at a time.

MATT: All of them fail!

(cheering)

MARISHA: This is gonna be cool, this is gonna be
cool. It's gonna put them all in one spot.

SAM: They were already in a line.

MARISHA: No, now we can electrocute them and
they're wet!

MATT: There is now an entire clustered sphere of
water that is containing a mishmash of duergar.

MARISHA: Lightning Bolt!

MATT: Call Lightning. All right, so, as Keyleth,
you step forward, out in the hallway, you bring

your arm up and there's this small cluster of dark
clouds beginning to form and swirl up on the top

of the 20-foot hallway. As it swirls, you bring
your arm downward, and there's a sudden crack of

thunder, a loud blasting sound that echoes through
the hallway. As the lightning strikes the center

of the sphere, the water itself bursts as the
actual cacophonous blast of the lightning loosely

shakes the aquatic sphere. However, go ahead and
roll damage.

MARISHA: Do I get any more damage because of
the--

MATT: You get an additional two dice of damage to
each one of the duergar because they are contained

in the water.

ORION: Yeah!

MARISHA: So 5d10?

MATT: Correct.

MARISHA: Do I roll for each one?

MATT: You just roll once, and that's across the
board for all of them, and they are at a

disadvantage because they are in the sphere.

MARISHA: Oh, and they're at a disadvantage?

ORION: Yeah, yeah, because I'm like holding them
up.

MARISHA: All right.

MATT: It's really funny, because two of them
rolled 20s in a row, but they're at a

disadvantage.

MARISHA: Nice. Not too shabby. So we have ten, 19
plus 18, bringing it to 28 plus three, 31 plus

one. 32.

MATT: Okay. So the sphere explodes, the actual
stone on the ground you can feel shake and shudder

with the impact of the lightning storm. All but
one of the duergar are blown apart and scattered

across the wall Akira-style, just (splat) against
the walls. One of them is still in the center of

the sphere, now looking charred and burnt, and
eyes wide open with anger and frustration.

MARISHA: Scanlan, go!

SAM: I say, (chants) you ugly, you ugly, yo mama
says you ugly! And I cast Vicious Mockery.

(laughter)

MATT: He rolled a 14 vs the DC which I think is--

SAM: 19.

MATT: All right, how much total did you do?

SAM: Just a five.

MATT: How much did you do, total?

MARISHA: 32, total.

MATT: Hold on. So as the duergar is currently held
aloft in this aquatic sphere, half-charred and

burnt with pieces of his friends floating in the
water around him, he hears through this kind of

warbling sound, "You ugly, you ugly," and he sees
everyone kind of step in the hallway clapping with

you, and he kind of looks around at himself, looks
at his situation... and eventually just gives up

and takes a big old gulp of water and drowns
inside the aquatic sphere.

(laughter)

SAM: Yes! I shamed him to death

ASHLEY: Amazing.

MARISHA: (laughs) What a terrible way to die.

MATT: Good news is, you guys royally screwed over
six duergar, one of which

you shamed him to death.

(laughter)

MATT: You have definitely, however, announced your
presence at the chamber.

LIAM: Vax spanks Tiberius on the tail and says,
get ready to deity! Going stealth.

MARISHA: I say-- I go, get on my back, get on my
back, and I piggyback him.

MATT: You transform?

ORION: I do.

MATT: No, Marisha, did you transform?

MARISHA: Well I'm piggybacking him, just now. I'm
literally just piggybacking Tiberius waiting.

MATT: Okay, so Tiberius, you leap onto her back.

ORION: Mm-hm, and I cast Alter Self, and I turn
to--

LIAM: Scanlan, Vex.

ASHLEY: I'm going to cast the thing on him.

MATT: Okay, so you cast Thaumaturgy on him to give
him a vocal emphasis, a roaring, booming voice. Do

you stay with him or do you move back with the
rest of the group?

MARISHA: Oh, oh, Pike Pike Pike Pike Pike. What
kind of animal would this god use? Would you know

what kind of animal the duergar would worship? Do
you know?

ORION: It's a religion check.

MATT: Religion check.

MARISHA: What kind of animals he might like? You
know, check out-- you know, animals.

ASHLEY: 14.

MATT: You have no idea. You know the deity exists,
you don't know of any sort of animal, beast or

creature symbolism that would befit a duergar
god.

ASHLEY: I have no idea.

MARISHA: I guess a scorpion, a scorpion sounds
good? Scorpion. Giant Scorpion.

MATT: Keyleth's form shifts. As you see a bunch of
arachnid-like legs sprawl out the side of her

torso, her form condenses into a dark, chitinous shell
as two giant claws form out the side of her body,

and a giant poison stinger curls up from behind.
Tiberius kind of holds on during the

transformation--

ASHLEY: I'm going to go back, because if they see
me, then they'll know something's fishy.

MATT: All right, the rest of you are here. So. You
feel this kind of divine energy cascade around

your throat. You can feel your vocal cords
themselves are temporarily infused with some sort

of divine presence. You've transformed yourself
now into the visage of this duergar deity.

Standing at probably a good-- what height are you
going at?

ORION: How tall are the--

MATT: The duergar are about four-and-a-half feet
tall.

ORION: So let's make him six feet tall.

MATT: All right, six-foot-tall duergar standing
there.

LAURA: The two of us get back by the other twin
door, and get ready to bust into that entrance.

SAM: I'm with them. We're the stealth party.

LIAM: I'm in fact nudging Grog away from this door
towards the front towards Tiberius. I don't know,

they're not that strong.

MATT: What are you doing? Grog says, "Which way,
which way do I go?"

LIAM: Vax kicks Grog in the butt and sends him
forward. Go help Tiberius!

MATT: "I'm walking back for you."

LAURA: Grog, don't do that. Not that far. Grog,
come back, because if they see him--

ORION: No, stay in the corner, Grog. Wait 'til I
say help me, and then come kill everything.

MATT: He looks like he's listening. Mostly.

(laughter)

MARISHA: Back him up. Back him up.

MATT: You hear shifting in the doorway from the
front where you guys are. What's the plan? What's

doing what?

SAM: Who's going in first?

ORION: Is this going to be the entrance where
we're going in?

LAURA: Yeah you bust in and be a god.

MARISHA: Oh, are we busting in?

LAURA: When you give it, we'll go in the other
way.

MARISHA: Fuck if I know.

ORION: That's your job. Bust the door open.

MATT: All right, go ahead and make an athletics
check.

LIAM: I'm simultaneously checking our door for--
no, I already did. It's unlocked, and untrapped.

Never mind.

MARISHA: Giant scorpion. Athletics. Plus my dex,
I'm assuming?

MATT: No, plus your strength.

MARISHA: Strength, that's pretty cool, though.
22.

MATT: A 22.

MARISHA: I rolled a 19.

MATT: All right, the doors splinter open. The
doors are actually broken off the hinges.

ORION: As that happens, I cast Light and I cast
Prestidigitation.

SAM: Concentrate. Don't cast too much shit.

ORION: I can't hear what's going on. I hear some
annoyances in the background as I cast

Prestidigitation to make my voice louder.

LAURA: No, she already did it. It's three times
louder than it normally would be.

ORION: Oh, shit.

MARISHA: So just keep focusing on your Light.

MATT: As you guys come bursting in--

LIAM: Holy shit.

LAURA: Yeah, there's a lot of them.

MARISHA: Maybe do some Prestidigitation where you
move shit around.

ASHLEY: Oh ho ho. What!

MARISHA: Oh! Hello, everybody.

LIAM and LAURA: (Grog voice) I would like to
rage.

LAURA: Oh, no. Basilisks!

LIAM: What?

LAURA: Those thingies!

MARISHA: Oh, that's right, they have those pet
basilisks. Remember?

MATT: So the doors burst open and you guys come
through. All of the duergar stand there with their

weapons at the ready. You can see in the back, on
this raised platform, where the cloth stops, there

is two thrones, at the top two duergar sitting on
the thrones at the ready. You can see two kind of

lizard-like creatures in the back on chained
leashes. However, all of the duergar that are

ready to strike as you burst through, take a step
back, looking extremely confused about what's

going on.

ORION: (shouts) Silence! All of you, silence!

SAM: We weren't talking.

ORION: Who knows who I am?

MATT: Make a persuasion check.

MARISHA: Get it. Get it. Get it.

LIAM: Yep. Yep yep yep yep. Vax is quietly moving
along the back wall.

SAM: Our door is open?

LIAM: It is now.

LAURA: Yeah we're going to try to stealth in and
sneak attack them.

ORION: 16.

LAURA: Oh god. Oh god.

MATT: Okay. The duergar in the front take another
step back, looking both frightened and awed. The

one nearest to you takes his hammer and throws it to
the ground, and takes a knee.

ORION: Well, it looks like there's one saved soul
at this point in time.

MATT: At which point two of the other ones nearby
kind of look at each other and look back at the

one who's on on the ground. They put their hammers
down, and they kneel as well. At which point, in

the back, you see the two throned figures stand up.
One of which you can barely see in the dim light

outside of your Light spell that's currently
gleaming above you. This long,

almost-touching-the-floor black, braided beard
that drags right over this heavy-set plate of

jagged black iron metal. A giant sword in his hand.
"You're kneeling below this false idol."

ORION: Silence!

MATT: "This imposter!"

ORION: As I cast-- As I say silence, I blow a big
plume of fire out of my mouth,

and I cast Control Flames.

MATT: So the light (pff).

ORION: I don't cast Control Flames. I just do the
Fireball for effect. I don't do Control Flames,

because that's a concentration spell.

MATT: All right, so you do Fireball. Where are you
casting Fireball? Or just doing it to do it?

ORION: Just (fwoosh).

MATT: Plume of flame. Roll an intimidation check.

TALIESIN: You guys, what are you doing right now?

LIAM: I'm moving along the back wall. I want that
illithid.

ORION: 18.

MATT: Okay. Make a stealth check. Who else is
going in there with him?

LAURA: I go in and stand at the walls next to the
door.

LIAM: 32.

MATT: Okay, your stealth roll?

ASHLEY: I'm so stressed.

MARISHA: I know! I feel like I'm going to have a
heart attack.

MATT: So you rolled a--

ORION: 18.

MATT: Okay, you can see this figure-- which you
are gathering at this point is probably King

Murghol-- still holding his sword aloft, looks
back towards his wife who's sitting in the throne

next to him, who is just standing up kind of
confused.

ORION: That's right, boy. I am Laduguer! You know,
and you know your deeds as

of late might upset my rest.

MATT: All of the duergar are now looking over
their shoulders back towards the king and watching

this transpire between the two of you.

ORION: (shouts) All of you, lay down your arms!

LAURA: 32.

MATT: 32. You're moving in, everyone else staying
in the hallway?

ASHLEY: I'm not moving. I'm like this!

MATT: As you guys push in further and further, the
group that are kneeling move back in sheer fear

and horror. At which point the king takes a step
down off of the throne area onto the next

platform, weapons still at his side and says,
"Men, I've trained you. I've raised you. I've fed

"you and I've kept you alive."

ORION: And I don't care for you to finish that
sentence! I cast Fireball. Right fucking-- Right

on him.

SAM: That's an attack right there.

ORION: Of course it is!

MATT: So the blast hits him and a 20-foot radius
that will grab everything in that radius.

Including you. So go ahead and roll damage. 8d6.

LIAM: It's all right.

MARISHA: 8d6.

LIAM: Heal me, Pike, heal me. Heal me in three
minutes, heal me. This is gonna hurt. This is

gonna sting.

MARISHA: Oh, god damn. Come on, you got this.
You got this, Vax.

SAM: You want it to be a lot, but not too much.

(laughter)

LIAM: A little less than 55.

ORION: Uh, 25.

MATT: 25, okay.

ORION: Oh, I'm sorry, 30.

MATT: Okay, good. So it explodes around them. You
see all of them kind of shield themselves from the

blast of flame. As it spreads out--

LIAM: Wait, I'm doing the rogue thing that I can't
remember the name for.

LAURA and MARISHA: Uncanny Dodge?

LIAM: No, it's something else.

ORION: Quickly. Quickly.

MATT: So while you're looking that up-- The
duergar brace themselves and they have an innate

natural resistance against things magical in
nature.

LIAM: Evasion!

MATT: So they all take the brunt of the damage,
however, it does not do as much as you hoped to

the group. All of them look hurt, but definitely
not taken out of the fight. The two lizard

creatures you now have a better look at, you do
see it's familiar. They have numerous sets of

legs, and though the chains hold them at bay, both
of them glance up instinctually. I want you,

Tiberius, to make two constitution saving throws.

SAM: Traps.

ORION: Yes.

LIAM: DM. Evasion, if I make a success I get
half-damage, if I fail I get-- If I fail, I get

half-damage, if I succeed I get no damage. I think
I failed. I got a nine.

MATT: Yeah you take half-damage. So you take the--
What was the total damage on your Fireball? So you

take 15 points of fire damage. So as you glance
about the room now, you look over and both of

these lizard creatures kind of look towards you.
You kind of look back and forth-- there's a

slight gleam in their eye. Suddenly you feel your
form begin to tighten up, instant. You are

considered restrained, which means you are at
disadvantage to all your attack rolls and ability

checks for right now.

ORION: Hold on, I still have a bonus attack I can
do before that happens, correct?

MATT: No, this is as it's happening. Your turn is
still happening.

ORION: I got it.

MATT: This is all kind of a fluid moment. Things
happen as they happen until initiative is being

rolled, which is now. So everyone roll
initiative.

MARISHA: Sneaky sneaky.

LAURA: Oh, great.

MATT: All right, so, 25 to 20?

SAM: Natural 20.

MATT: Plus your--

SAM: Nothing.

MATT: Plus nothing for dex. Okay.

SAM: Oh, for dex. Plus nothing.

MATT: Okay, so 25 to 20?

TALIESIN: 23.

LIAM: 21.

MATT: 21, all right, all right.

TALIESIN: Yeah. Sneak attack.

MATT: All righty, 20 to 15?

LAURA: 19.

ORION: 17.

MATT: All right, 15 to ten?

MARISHA: I'm nine.

ASHLEY: Five. Not to brag.

MARISHA: (laughs) Big number five.

MATT: All right.

MARISHA: I just noticed your shirt. It's really
great.

SAM: Guys, tune in every week for this kind of
intense action.

LAURA: Unless we're all dead next week. In which
case--

LIAM: -- Mama put the coins on my eyes.

MATT: All right, that brings us to top of the
round. Percy, you're up.

TALIESIN: I'm going to hold off until-- I'm
actually going to delay my turn until post-Pike.

ORION: Can I still yell out shit while this is
happening? Even though it isn't my turn?

MATT: I mean, you can yell like one thing.

TALIESIN: I'm loud and I've got range, so I'm
going to let the room fill,

and then I'm going to come in and get some.

ORION: As this is all going down, I'm going to
yell, those who want to live, throw down your

arms. That's what I do.

MATT: Okay. That brings us back to the top. Vax,
you're up.

LIAM: Okay, I use my bonus action to click my
boots of haste together. And I tap-dance over to

the illithid, and I'm going to use two daggers to
stab him in his eyeballs.

MATT: Okay.

LIAM: First one hits, it's 18.

MATT: It is a critical because it does not see you
and has not acted yet this combat.

LIAM: Yeah it is. So I just take my keen dagger
and I shove it in his eyeball. 1d4 is two, plus--

MARISHA: Feel like I'm going to have a heart
attack.

TALIESIN: We're going to be fine. It's nothing we
can't handle.

MARISHA: Nothing we can't handle.

LIAM: 19, 28, plus 36 is the first dagger into his
eyeball.

MATT: Okay.

LIAM: Second dagger also hits for a little less,
for seven points of fire

damage in his other eyeball.

MATT: All right. Gotcha. So the first one actually
jams into one of its eyes. It didn't even see you,

it recoils back, slapping your hand back out of
the way. The other dagger strikes and just gleans

off its shoulder. However, it turns around with
its other eye and

it definitely knows you're there.

LIAM: I'd like to circulate my hands to kind of
carve out the eyeball area.

(laughter)

MATT: No, it pushed you off.

LIAM: Yeah, okay, okay, it's all right.

MATT: All right. That brings us to Grog.

SAM: (Grog voice) I would like to rage.

LIAM: (Grog voice) I would like to go to a whore
house.

MATT: He goes into a rage. And Grog is going to go
ahead and take his axe with the chain on it and

throw it toward the first duergar he sees, which
is right here. Throws it. All right, that is a--

That's going to miss. He rolled a four. Swings
past. He's going to make an athletics check to see

if he can bring it back. That he succeeds. So he
throws the axe. It swings past the duergar, clangs

to the ground, uses his chain, he yanks it back,
catches it in his hand. His turn is spent,

however. Next up is Scanlan.

SAM: I step into the room, lining myself up with
those two pig, creature, beast things. In a line.

Yeah. Can I also catch the king or no?

MATT: No, it has to be a line. It has to go
straight.

SAM: Going for the guys. I don't want to scald
you. You're already hurting. I'm going to go

straight across the piggies and make them squeal
with Lightning.

MATT: All right. At the start of your turn--

SAM: Oh shit, there's a trap.

MATT: No, at the start of your turn you come up
and the creature looks over and you guys make eye

contact. You weren't averting your gaze. Go ahead
and make a constitution save.

LIAM: Saving throw, saving throw. Come on,
Scanlan, you lucky motherfucker! Roll high.

SAM: 17, plus what?

MATT: Plus your constitution modifier.

SAM: 19.

MATT: All right, so, as it glances over at you,
there's a shine in its eye, and you feel all of a

sudden your form, for a second, tense, and you
shrug off the effect, untouched by it. Now, go

ahead and take your turn.

SAM: I cast Lightning on the two beasts. 
In a straight line.

MATT: Okay, so you pull back and you unleash a
lightning bolt.

It goes streaking across the room.

SAM: If I can get the king, I'll try.

MATT: Unfortunately, he's just out of the line
array, but it does streak across and blast both of

these now visibly basilisks in front of you.

You hit automatically. Just go ahead and
roll damage.

(laughter)

MARISHA: Oh sweet, sweet dice rolls.

LIAM: Let it rain!

MARISHA: Let it rain d6s from the sky!

SAM: 29.

MATT: 29. One fails its saving throw, one makes
it. So 29 damage to one, and 14 to the other.

SAM: And then, for bonus action, I inspire Vax
with a little ditty.

MATT: All right.

SAM: (sings) I want to sing a song of inspiration,
of inspiration!

(laughter)

MATT: All righty, that's it. That ends Scanlan's
turn. King Murghol's turn, now. King Murghol is

going to-- It sees this blast of lightning streak
past now, as it blasts, just barely passing in

front of it, hitting both of his pet basilisks.
Now seeing that there's, like, a full army between

himself and the current intruders, one of which is
visibly stiffening, he glances over at this tiny

gnome individual, who now gave loose to this bolt
of energy. Grabs his blade with both hands and

goes running towards you with an angry-- but he
uses a bonus action, quickly, to pull out a vial,

pop a cork, chug it, shatter the glass on the
ground. As he does, you can see his arms actually

billow and grow extremely strong and thick with
muscle.

MARISHA and LAURA: What color was the vial?

MATT: This was purplish in color.

He then runs forward. And is going to take
his turn, swinging at Scanlan.

SAM: As he does, I sing (sings) Dodge that sexy
attack-oh white boy.

(laughter)

SAM: I sing my-- what is it called?
Counter-- Cutting Word-- no, yes, what? Cutting

Words! And I try to distract him as he's attacking
me. What is that, a d8?

MATT: A d8 off of his first attack.

SAM: Five.

MATT: Five. Okay, well, he rolled a 20, which
brings it down, oh, a total of 20, which brings it

down to 15. What's your armor class?

SAM: 14.

MATT: Oh. Second strike is a 13. Third strike is a
12. Wow, he just can't hit at all this turn. But,

however, the one strike he does get on you, the
sword comes down, streaks across the front of you,

and as you're finishing your last, final note of
that song, you take 18 points of slashing damage.

SAM: Okay, okay, okay.

ASHLEY: Where you at?

SAM: I'm fine.

ASHLEY: Where are you at?

SAM: I'm fine. I've got more than him.

MATT: That ends his turn. This brings us back to
Vex!

LAURA: That's me! I cast Hunter's Mark! Actually,
I just transfer it, because the other one died.

I transfer it to the king.

And then I cast-- First I want to move
Trinket over and-- oh no, I can only move

Trinket. Okay, first I'm gonna cast Conjure
Barrage. It's a 60-foot cone.

So I want to see how many of them I can get.

MATT: You can, you can get-- let's see. 
That'll get everybody.

LAURA: Can I angle it so I don't hit my buddies?

MATT: You can angle it in a way that will-- well,
if you wanna get the king in it, you're going to

hit these two here. And Grog.

LAURA: All right, I'll hit them.

MATT: Okay, so, you will be able to hit everything
in that row. So go for it.

How does the effect on that work?

LAURA: I roll 3d8.

MATT: All right, so go ahead and roll 3d8.

LAURA: That was on a corner. Oh good! 17.

MATT: 17, okay. And what's the effect on the
spell, like what do they roll against?

LAURA: They roll a dexterity saving throw.

MATT: Dexterity saving throw. King makes his, with
a 20. So he takes half-damage for it,

or no damage?

LAURA: Half as much, yeah.

MATT: Okay, so what was the total again? It was--
What was the total originally? It was-- what was

the total?

LAURA: The total? Was 17.

MATT: 17. Okay, so that is eight damage to the
king.

LAURA: Plus a Hunter's Mark.

MATT: Right, so roll the additional one on that.

LAURA: Four.

MATT: Four, gotcha. All right. The basilisk also
does not make its save. What's the DC on this?

LAURA: DC. What do you mean?

MATT: Your spell DC. At the top of your spell
page.

LAURA: Yes. It's 14.

MATT: 14.

LAURA: Oh, I did get a-- I didn't add my spell
attack bonus! Should I have done that?

MATT: No, that's just to hit something with a
spell.

LAURA: Okay, cool.

MATT: All right, so basilisk in front makes it, so
it takes the eight damage. Okay, the rest of the

duergar, they do make their saves, they take half
damage. However, with the spray of arrows that

comes flying out of the front of your bow, you
manage to take out five duergar in one swipe. The

others ones remain, damaged but still standing.
Also, now dexterity saving throw for you,

Tiberius, and Grog.

MARISHA: Natural 20.

ORION: 19.

MATT: Nice. So both you guys take eight damage.
Grog fails, Grog takes 17.

LAURA: I'm sorry, Grog.

MATT: "It's all right." All right, Vex, is that
the end of your turn?

LAURA: Oh, I move Trinket in, and I want to-- If I
can get him to illithid, I want to get Trinket

close, like kind of behind the queen. No, no, I
want to get him near. That way he can flank.

MATT: Okay, all right. That ends your turn. 
It is now Lady Kima's turn.

SAM: Ooh, I forgot about her.

MATT: Kima rushes in angrily. She has to make a
saving throw. Succeeds against the basilisk, as it

glances past. Rushes forward, in combat with both
King Murghol and the basilisk. However, as she

goes in for King Murghol, screaming, the blade of
the greatsword arcing across the air with a divine

glowing energy, you see it aiming for the king,
but then looks to her side and sees this dangerous

lizard creature, recognizing it in a moment, she
changes her trajectory and swings next to the

lizard with her first strike. That is a-- that
hits. And that strike does just enough damage. She

cleaves that basilisk in two with her first
strike. With her first strike, using the inertia,

she turns around and strikes at King Murghol.

However, King Murghol, seeing her come
forward, takes his sword up and manages to parry

hers to the side. Both of them lock for a second
as he steps into her and kind of glares into her

face. "Oh, you're supposed to be downstairs for
playtime." Pushes her off with his blade..

MARISHA: Playtime? I don't-- (laughs) I know, all
the ladies are like 'ew'.

MATT: That brings us to Queen Ulara's turn. Queen
Ulara is now standing over there with Trinket

towards her back. As she instinctually does this,
she goes ahead and reaches up, places her hand on

the front of her robes. You can see this duergar
woman with kind of long, reddish hair that she's

let flow to the back, to the small of her back.
She stands up out of the throne. As she puts her

hand on her chest, her form shimmers, much like
you saw earlier on Tiberius, in your earlier

battle. She moves back to there.

ORION: As she does that, I try to Counterspell
it.

MATT: That's a reaction?

ORION: Yep.

MATT: Okay. So let's go ahead and do the contested
roll.

ORION: Contested roll.

SAM: That was almost the name of this show. Not as
catchy.

ORION: DC equals ten plus the spell's level.

MATT: Okay. So the DC is 12. Go ahead and you roll
that.

ORION: DC is 13. It's a third-level spell. Right?

MATT: Blur is second-level.

ORION: Oh, I thought Counter-- Okay, I see.

MATT: Yes. So, Counterspell. Go ahead and-- Oh--
interrupt a creature in process of casting a

spell. If the creature is casting a spell-- third
level or lower, it fails and has no effect. So,

yeah, it just counters it entirely. So, the-- her
form begins to shimmer for a second. All of a

sudden, Tiberius, your attempt to go ahead and
counter the spell, that burst of energy you're

trying to put through the Blur vanishes. She looks
back at you.

ORION: What do you think you're doing, lass?

SAM: You still trying to be a god?

ORION: I'm in that form still.

(laughter)

MATT: Yeah. So with her sorcery points expended on
that quick cast, she turns around for her main

action, puts out her fingers, and you see these
blasts of blue energy begin to rocket out from her

fingertips, across the room, in what is a Chain
Lightning.

LIAM: Shit. He's got the iPhone out.

MATT: So, this'll be towards-- actually, this'd be
towards you, Vex, Kima, and Scanlan.

LAURA: All right.

LIAM: Did you say Vex or Vax?

MATT: Yeah, Vex and Vax, both of you.

LAURA: Wait, you're all the way over there.

SAM: Yeah, you're all the way over somewhere else,
right?

MATT: Over there, yeah. Chain Lightning, man. It's
a bitch. All right. All right, so. Vax, go ahead

and make a dexterity saving throw.

LIAM: Not good. Seven.

MATT: Seven, all right.

LIAM: Can I use Evasion, or-- Uncanny Dodge or
Evasion?

SAM: I gave you some dice. I gave you, I gave you
some dice.

LIAM: You did give me some dice.

SAM: It's not going to be enough, though.

LIAM: So now I'm at 13, but can I use Evasion or
Uncanny Dodge? Evasion is for area effects,

Uncanny Dodge is--

MATT: Well, you've already used one for the area
effect, the other one reduces the damage by half.

LIAM: All right, Uncanny Dodge.

MATT: Okay, so you're reducing the damage by
half?

LIAM: Yeah.

MATT: Okay, so instead, you take 18 points of
lightning damage. However, both Vex and Scanlan

and Kima all have to make dexterity saving throws
as well. She makes hers.

SAM: Not great. 14. I have no dexterity.

LAURA: 16.

MATT: 16, okay. So you took, was it 18 lightning
damage, I said?

LIAM: Oh, I didn't add any dexterity. I add a 9 to
what I got, which means I'm at 22.

MATT: Just, you mean, your dexterity modifier? 22?
Okay, then you would've taken half damage, make it

quarter damage, so you take half of that even. So
keep that in mind when you make your dexterity

saving throw. So, that would give you total how
much damage? So, it was 18 you took, right?

LIAM: Yeah, and we halved it to nine. Five?

MATT: So, 36 damage to Scanlan and to Kima, and to
you, Vex. 36 points of lightning damage. That ends

her turn. Tiberius, you're up. So you, it's your
turn now, as you're now

on top of the scorpion still.

ASHLEY: It's okay.

MARISHA: You're on top of me. I'm holding you!

ASHLEY: I got you.

ORION: Cool. This is-- there's still on the altar
that's raised above-- and all that.

TALIESIN: You've got a problem down there, to be
fair.

ORION: Where we're at?

TALIESIN: You've got the witch problem to deal
with.

MATT: What do you got, Tiberius? Quick, before you
miss your turn.

ORION: I shall miss nothing. I'm going to stay
right where I'm at.

MATT: All right.

ORION: I'm going to snicker, and I will (laughs)
hand out, put out my hand, and give my little ring

a rub, and let out a Fireball from it, right where
no one else but these buttholes will get hurt.

MATT: All right, so (laughs), I'd say probably a
20-foot radius around would put it about there.

LIAM: (Tiberius voice) What is the Common word for
it?

ALL: (Tiberius voice) Butthole.

MATT: So, as you polish off the ring and release
it, the bead of red energy streaks across,

blasting the floor, the secondary explosion, giant
Fireball just bursts into the room, go ahead and

roll damage on that.

ORION: Six, I have enough, there's a four, this is
terrible, help me count, eight.

MARISHA: Okay, well, we have all these twos. Let's
put the twos side by side. That's fun. Uh-huh.

LAURA: Your turns are taking so long!

ORION: 18. 23!

MATT: 23. Okay. The rest of these duergar
detonate, blasted away out of play. Just, their

bodies go thrown against the walls and the various
pillars in the room. There's two pillars over

there, they're kind of holding the ceiling up. The
rest of them just go thrown about the room. The

queen takes a bit of the damage, but seems to
shrug off most of it.

ORION: I'm going to spend two sorcerer points. And
I'm going to reach out my hand, and I'm going to

form an ice knife and-- where is the queen,
actually?

MATT: Right there.

ORION: Oh, very good. I'm going to throw the ice
knife right there.

MATT: Okay. Right there? All right.

ORION: And I cast it at level two.

MATT: All right. So you get to throw at a target,
though, right? Or are you just throwing

on the ground to do the radial? Okay, so you
take-- you form the ice knife, you throw it, it

streaks across, slams into the stone floor and
explodes, sending shards of ice out. Go ahead and

roll damage.

ORION: Which is 3d6, because it's at level two
now.

MATT: Correct. Saving throw, which it succeeds.

ORION: Much better. 14 points of damage.

MATT: Okay. Both succeed for half damage. So seven
points of damage to each. All right, got it, cool.

That ends your turn, Tiberius. Clarota, now--

ORION: How do you like them apples?!

MATT: Clarota steps forward-- Seeing the other
mind flayer there, steps past and decides to go

into a contest of wills against it.

MARISHA: Contest of wills, staring contest,
staring contest!

MATT: All right, this is intense. All right.
Clarota is going to step forward and begin to

intensely stare at-- you can see the air itself
seems to shimmer and push, like a strange bubble

shifting between the two of them at this
connection point. Mind flayer, now one-eyed and

seeping liquid from the side of its face, glares
back at him. Fails his saving throw.

MARISHA: That's right, he does.

MATT: This mind flayer suddenly diverts its
attention away from Clarota and towards the queen.

(cheering)

SAM: The old Dominate.

ASHLEY: Tight, tight, tight.

(laughter)

MATT: That ends Clarota's turn. All right. The
duergar would go if they weren't all blasted to

hell. That brings us to Keyleth.

MARISHA: All right. I'm going to go right for the
king. You're coming for a ride, Tiberius. I'm

gonna make a straight line. I have a 40-foot
movement, pretty straight movement.

ORION: All right! Let's get 'em!

LAURA: Oh no, Tiberius fell off.

MATT: There you go.

MARISHA: Okay, I'm in melee, yeah?

MATT: Yes, you are.

MARISHA: All right, I'm gonna do my full three
multi-attack.

ORION: I'm maniacally laughing.

MATT: You are going to have a disadvantage on the
tail attack, because you have Tiberius on your

back and you're trying to make sure you don't hit
him with your tail.

MARISHA: Okay.

MATT: So, first two claw strikes.

MARISHA: Okay, first one, probably not gonna hit.
12?

MATT: No, that does not hit.

MARISHA: Second one. 16?

MATT: Does not hit. Clink, clink! Off the armor.
Tail strike.

MARISHA: Tail strike. Two. Ten. Nothing.

MATT: Yeah, unfortunately just his thick suit of
armor-- you're just hitting at him with the giant

scorpion claws, but nothing seems to be getting
through.

MARISHA: God, you're so heavy, Tiberius, god!

MATT: You hear this clacking scorpion angrily
(scorpion sounds).

MARISHA: My balance is wonky.

MATT: Pike, you're up!

ASHLEY: All right, time for some healing. So pull
me in there. I'm gonna do a-- I'm gonna do a Mass

Cure Wounds. At level five gives, which I thinks
gives-- thinks? Which methinks gives me 4d8? Plus

my spell ability modifier. Okay, so--

MARISHA: Get your heal on.

LIAM: (Yoda voice) 4d8 you would give.

ASHLEY: Oh, so, 20. 20 points of healing for
whoever would like it.

MATT: For everyone who's in the radius. Everyone
but Grog, essentially, gets healed for 20 points.

Grog's too far away from you, unfortunately.

SAM: Thank you, my love.

MATT: All right, Percy, you're up.

TALIESIN: All right, I'm going to just get-- just
step into the doorway to take a look. I'm just

stepping one step. And now I'm just going to
shoot-- can I-- I'm just gonna try and-- The

minute I recognize what a basilisk is, since I've
faced them before, I'm going to do my best not to

look and take a shot.

MATT: Okay, so go ahead and fire with a
disadvantage against the basilisk on the far end

of the room.

SAM: Don't you shoot me.

MARISHA: Oh, that was a pretty one.

TALIESIN: I get 16 at my disadvantage.

MATT: 16 at disadvantage? That does hit. Go ahead
and roll damage.

TALIESIN: Nice! I'll be taking another shot, too.

MATT: Also, Tiberius, make another constitution
saving throw.

TALIESIN: Six points of damage.

MATT: Six points of damage to the basilisk, got
it.

TALIESIN: I'm going to take another shot, though.
16 again.

ORION: Ten.

TALIESIN: 16 hits. This time I do 12 points of
damage.

MARISHA: 12 points?

TALIESIN: 12 points. And then I'm gonna duck back
around the corner again.

MATT: Okay. Cool. As you duck around the corner,
you've gotten these strikes in, and as you're

trying to-- as you finish your blows on the
duergar king, Murghol, in front of you, you hear

this clanking sound as Tiberius's now fully stone
form falls off of the scorpion onto the ground,

beside you.

SAM: Oh no! He's stoned!

ASHLEY: You turned to stone?

LAURA: 'Cause of the basilisk.

LIAM: We've dealt with this before.

LAURA: Basilisk blood, we can fix it.

SAM: I think you pee on the body and it cures
them.

ASHLEY: Can I-- I can't, I have to go--

SAM: Let's try it and find out.

MATT: The basilisk now takes its turn.

LIAM: (stone Tiberius voice) Please, no!

MATT: Steps forward onto the edge. It's going to
go ahead and-- it's gonna be for Lady Kima. It's

going to attempt to make its stare at her. Lady
Kima--

ASHLEY: Close your eyes!

LAURA: She's smart, she's closing her eyes.

MATT: Lady Kima, who's currently in this blood
frenzy against the king, unfortunately is not

paying attention. Off to the side, the basilisk
gets a glance out, which she looks at from the

corner of her eye, she sees the movement over and
has a hard time pushing through the stiffness as

the gaze begins to take a clenching effect on her
body.

LAURA: Oh no.

COMPUTER-GENERATED VOICE: All set, let's go.

MATT: Yes, thank you. Let's do that. Oh, Waze.
Why's my phone on? All right, so, that brings us

to the-- Oof, okay.

LIAM: (computer voice) I'm sorry, I can't help you
with that, Vex'ahlia.

MATT: This mind flayer, who's currently Dominated,
steps forward and is going to attempt to make a

tentacle grab against the queen. Queen Ulara
manages to dodge out of the way, seeing this

coming, and just backhands it, while taking a step
back. Unfortunately does not cling with the

tentacle. That ends its action. Yeah,
unfortunately that didn't hit. All right, next, at

the top, that brings us to Vax.

LIAM: I'm hasted. I'm gonna try to go stealth
again from where I am. So I'm stealth, 17-- 30.

Okay. I'm going to scuttle along the floor and
leap on the back of the basilisk and try to stab

it in the eye while looking at the ceiling.

MATT: Well, at the start of your turn, it's within
30 feet of you and you can see it.

Are you going to--

LIAM: Not look at it, no, no.

MATT: Okay, so you're taking disadvantage on this
attack. So you move behind, you're hidden.

LIAM: 15 for my first attack.

MATT: Your first attack, that will not hit,
unfortunately.

LIAM: And second time, 19 for the second attack.

MATT: That does hit, yes.

LIAM: Okay. Feel for the eyes, stab it with keen
dagger-- Four. 11.

MATT: Okay. As you rush over, you take your first
strike at the basilisk, you see it reel back and

slap around its tail. You barely just get out of
the way, and as you see its head turning around to

attempt to glare at you, you instinctively take
your offhand dagger and place it directly into the

eye socket of the basilisk. It sinks past your
fingers and you feel that warm rush of blood and

gore against your hand. As you pull back, it just
slumps to the ground.

(cheering)

ASHLEY: We'll get you some of that-- we'll get you
some of that blood. Blood! Basilisk blood!

LIAM: I only moved ten feet. So who's stone right
now? Tiberius and-- wasn't-- aren't two people?

MATT: Lady Kima is mid-effect and Tiberius is
solid stone.

LIAM: I've got Haste on-- If I've got Haste on,
can I get to Kima? 'Cause I've got haste boots.

MATT: I would say, yeah, you could spend the rest
of your movement doing that, yeah.

LIAM: Okay, and I use my thumb to slide some of
its blood off the blade

and drip it onto her eyes.

MATT: Okay. All right. That ends your turn. That
brings us to Grog. Grog turns and is going to go

ahead and go raging, frenzied, against the queen.
And a critical hit.

(cheering)

MARISHA: He crit?

ORION: Yeah.

MATT: The first hit, she's gonna go ahead and use
her reaction to do Shield, it's going to up her

defense. First attack misses, so two attacks miss
now and the last attack is a critical hit, which

is nice. So that's a--

MARISHA: No crits for you! Crit happens, whether
you're here or not.

MATT: All right, so that's 31 points of damage.
Oof, that's a hefty chunk. All right, that ends

Grog's turn. That brings us to Scanlan!

SAM: I'm next to the king, right? I'm near the
king? Over there.

MATT: Yep. You're right next to him.

SAM: Okay. I just make eye contact with him and I
mentally tell him that he really has the urge to

try to do a headstand. Lay down his weapon and he
really just wants to see if he can do it.

(laughter)

MATT: Okay.

SAM: Suggestion.

MATT: Okay. (laughs) What's your DC?

SAM: 19.

MATT: All right. This is through the hand cone?

SAM: Through the hand cone, through the hand
cone.

MATT: Okay. That will be a 20, unfortunately.
Makes his saving throw. He glances back towards

you with a look of confusion for a second. Looks
at his feet and like begins to reach forward and

then steels his mind and looks up at you angrily.
All right.

SAM: Can I also, as my bonus action-- Who's around
me? Who needs inspiration? Who needs inspiring?

Who's-- yeah, oh, shit. I'll give Pike some
inspiration, 'cause she's my awesome sweetheart.

ASHLEY: What do I get?

LAURA: You get 1d8.

ASHLEY: Hey, thanks, man.

MATT: Next up is King Murghol, who's furious now.
Both of his beasts have been slain and most of his

men have been completely torn asunder by
multitudes of arrows and fireball spells. He, now

growing in physical form, on top of already the
musculature he acquired from that potion, is going

to make his three attacks against whatever is
nearby. That's actually going to be-- actually,

that's gonna be two strikes against you, Scanlan,
since you just now tried to make him stand on his

head, and one against Kima.

(laughter)

MATT: That is a 15--

SAM: Hit.

MATT: -- a 24--

SAM: (higher voice) Hit.

MATT: -- and against Kima is a 20, that also hits.
So all three hit.

LIAM: Nobody puts baby in the corner.

(laughter)

MATT: Oof, all right. So the first strike hits you
for 21 points of slashing damage.

SAM: Still alive.

MATT: The next one hits you for 23 points of
slashing damage.

SAM: No longer alive (laughs).

ASHLEY: You're no longer alive?

LAURA: Are you unconscious?!

MATT: Scanlan falls unconscious on the ground from
the two strikes of the king. The third strike back

towards Kima, who's currently seizing from the
effect of the spell. She's restrained, so he has

advantage.

LIAM: But she's got the basilisk blood in her
eyes.

MATT: There's a process to undoing a creature into
stone. To your knowledge, it does not seem to be

having an effect. However, Lady Kima takes 22
points of damage. All righty. That brings us to--

Vex, you're up.

LAURA: Oh, that's me. Every time!

LIAM: I'm Vex.

LAURA: No, you're not. Okay, I'm gonna hail, I'm
gonna-- hail of arr-- no, yeah, Hail of Thorns? At

level three.

MATT: Okay, at who?

LAURA: At the queen and the illithid. So, I
should've transferred my bonus action over to--

but I didn't, that's okay. That gives me-- I
should've done this before,

I'm an asshole, I'm sorry.

LIAM: But what about in the game?

LAURA: That gives me 2d10.

MATT: Additional damage to the arrow.

LAURA: Yes.

MATT: So it explodes around, right? All right, so,
fire the arrow. So, as your bonus action, you go

and you grab one of the arrows out from the back,
and as you pull it back you can see a bunch of

these little thorns begin to grow and sprout from
the actual shaft of the arrow. You release it and

as it arcs across--

LAURA: Yes! Natural 20!

(cheering)

MATT: Against the queen. All right, go ahead and
roll the damage for the arrow and the damage for

the spell. And all that doubles.

LAURA: Oh, awesome.

MARISHA: (sings) All that doubles is gold.

TALIESIN: (sings) Only shooting arrows.

ORION: (sings) In a butthole.

LAURA: Yeah, all of it doubles.

MATT: The bonus at the end doesn't double, just
the dice.

LAURA: Oh, so, 36--

MATT: 36 points of damage. Yeah, plus the seven.
And then it does-- it explodes? In a radius. And

it does the dice damage, the 2d10, to--

LAURA: To everything within five feet.

MATT: All right, so the mind flayer and Grog.

LAURA: Oh, right, yeah, I should've hit the mind
flayer with that arrow. No, it would've still hit

Grog. Okay.

LIAM: Grog is a tank.

LAURA: They have to make a dexterity saving
throw.

MATT: All righty. Grog does not make it and the
mind flayer does not make it.

LAURA: Yes!

MATT: All right, cool. All right, second arrow you
can fire now if you want to.

LAURA: Second arrow. I'm gonna fire from my
flaming bow. I've got one shot on that left. At

her again.

MATT: All right.

LAURA: And that's a 28.

MATT: That hits.

LAURA: And that's nine plus a ten, where's my ten?
There they are. That's plus two. 11.

MATT: All right. You see flames begin to burn up
along the side of her robe and she's looking

really flustered and frustrated at this point. All
right, that brings us to Kima's turn. No. She's

made of hardy stuff. Kima currently is fighting
this, is going to go ahead and release an entire--

all of her attacks against the king Murghol as
he's right in front of her. She has disadvantage

on that, unfortunately, because she is restrained.
She's gonna make two attacks against him using

Divine Smite, expending a 3rd-level spell. So
that's 3d8 extra damage to each strike. So the

first one hits. Both hit. All right. She's going
to do it twice.

That's gonna be 6d8 additional damage.

MARISHA: Ooh! That's hot.

MATT: Oof. Okay. So, as Kima rears back, her first
strike comes down and hits overhead, into King

Murghol's armor, and as it does, it hits. The
blade only goes about a few inches in, but then

all of a sudden the blade heats up white-hot and
actually buries itself an additional six inches

into his shoulder. He screams out in pain, reaches
up and grabs the blade and as he does, his hand

actually burns in the process. She pulls the blade
out, around and swings it down again, sinking

another eight inches into the side of his torso.
This time with a giant arc of white divine light

into the side. He looks like he's starting to
bleed out from the two of the wounds really

heavily. The king is looking a little rough. That
ends Kima's turn. Kima's going to try and make a

saving throw. Kima pulls the blade out, and turns
to stone herself.

LAURA: Oh shit. Shit, shit, shit. He's still at
like really high health, too. The king.

SAM: What, he is?

MATT: The king is looking a little rough.

SAM: You never know. He might just start doing a
headstand.

(laughter)

MATT: The queen's turn.

LAURA: Oh no.

MATT: The queen looks over at Grog in front of
her, kinda frustratedly, uses a bulk of sorcery

points, puts her hand up towards him as he's
pulling his axe back angrily. He fails his save.

And he puts his axe back down and looks towards
the rest of the group.

MARISHA: Oh no! Not again!

MATT: Eye color glazed over.

SAM: He's so easily influenced.

LAURA: No, he's under her control.

MATT: So that was her sorcery points, her quick
action. She then says, "We're not gonna die this

"day alone and I won't die. My love, I'm sorry, but
there's much more work to be done." And she raises

her hand up and you see this buildup of green
arcane energy at her hand. She turns it towards

the rest of the group, faces it up towards the
ceiling and releases this pulse of arcane, green,

ill-looking energy that blasts into the stone
ceiling. As it does, the stone itself

disintegrates in a large chunk, and a glowing
mass of seeping, hot, molten magma begins to pour

into the room.

MARISHA: Oh shit!

ORION: Where's it coming from?

MATT: It's now coming from right here.

LAURA: Oh my god.

LIAM: (sings) TPK. TPK.

MATT: So now, magma is pouring onto the throne
room from above. The giant fall that is on top of

the fortress is now peering into the room.

SAM: (high-pitched) Someone grab me and leave.

MATT: That brings us to Tiberius, who is stone.
Clarota currently looks around and--

ORION: Hold on. Am I conscious in stone form?

MATT: No. You are a slate. You are a blue screen.
You are Grog after the intellect devourer.

ASHLEY: Oh god, this is bad.

MATT: Okay. (laughs)

SAM: Pike, it's all on you, dude.

MARISHA: Do you have water?

ASHLEY: I can create it.

MATT: Clarota steps back and grabs Lady Kima and
begins dragging her back through the doorway.

LAURA: Oh god, we've got to get out. That's a
retreat.

MATT: Pulling her down towards the stairway. That
brings us to Keyleth.

SAM: Keyleth. Keyleth. Get us out of here.

MARISHA: Okay, okay, okay. I come out of the form.
Yes, thank you.

MATT: It's a free action.

ORION: Isn't there a dead basilisk right in front
of us right now?

MATT: There is a body of a dead basilisk on the
ground, yes.

MARISHA: I'm going to take Wind Wall. I'm gonna
cast Wind Wall and try and wrap it around the lava

column and try and contain it within the Wind
Wall, cooling it down. Essentially making a

tornado-like vortex around the lava.

MATT: Okay. For the purposes of this, I want you
to go ahead and make a basic religion check.

MARISHA: Okay.

MATT: Wait no, not religion. For you it'd be
nature. Just for the purposes of my thought, I

think a nature check would be an interesting way
to see how this plays out.

MARISHA: 18.

MATT: 18? Okay. So, as you bring this gust of cold
wind, swirling around, the column of magma begins

to cool and darken as Trinket is like backing up
against the wall and the magma is starting to

singe the edge of Trinket's nails. It cools to a
dark, black, kind of rockish color. And the magma

fall ceases, but you can see parts of it breaking
and beginning to break past that shell exterior.

So you've slowed it.

MARISHA: This isn't gonna hold for long! Somebody
rub some blood on Tiberius, quick, and let's get

the hell out of here! I'm just holding this.

MATT: Holding it there? Okay. That brings us to
Pike.

ASHLEY: There's so much to do. I don't know if I
should heal you, if I should rub blood on you or

if I should go try to remove the curse from Grog.

LAURA: See if you can get the curse out of Grog.
Because if we've got to retreat, then--

ASHLEY: Can Remove Curse remove the thing off of
him?

MATT: From your knowledge, no, it's an arcane
effect, not a curse.

ASHLEY: That's an arcane effect. Okay, so, Grog
might be on his own for a little bit. Okay. So can

I heal Scanlan and then also rub some basilisk
blood on Tiberius?

MATT: From your previous experience, it's not the
blood directly. The blood itself has to be

distilled into a specific alchemical form to
reverse the effect.

ORION: We just drank the blood last time.

MATT: No, it wasn't drinking. After the battle,
you guys took the blood, prepared it, and then

used it as part of the recovery.

MARISHA: Will someone collect some blood?

MATT: Okay, so you heal Scanlan. How much does he
heal?

ORION: The king's almost dead.

MARISHA: Do we want to kill the king? Do we need
somebody alive to help us?

ASHLEY: Oh, 19, 19!

MATT: So you're healed 19. You're on the ground,
prone, but you're conscious now.

SAM: Hi!

MATT: You look up at Pike and smile and you look
over and see this large column of magma that's now

cracking through stone and pouring into the throne
room again.

ASHLEY: Is there anything else we can do? Is there
anything else I can do at this moment?

MATT: No, this has been a heal, this has been--
no, okay, you can move, that's about it.

ASHLEY: I can move? Can I take anyone with me
while I move?

MATT: I will say you can drag him. You'll be at
half speed.

ASHLEY: Can I try to drag Tiberius away from the
magma?

MATT: You can try. Make a strength check.

SAM: You're two feet tall. He's a dragon.

MATT: Let's say athletics, do athletics.

ASHLEY: Athletics? 19.

MATT: Okay. So, you grab onto Tiberius, you rush
over after healing him, grab and start dragging

him towards the entrance. At half-speed you manage
to get him three squares, that's as far as you

got. As you're pulling back, the king, as a
reaction, gets one strike on you with his sword.

That's gonna be a 19.

ASHLEY: Get outta here.

(laughter)

MATT: Your AC is 20?

ASHLEY: It's 20.

MATT: So the blade hits you--

ASHLEY: I just flip him off.

(laughter)

MATT: The blade comes down towards you, but with a
flash of divine energy in your shoulder armor, it

just gets deflected off the side and you glare at
him out of the side of your face. And continue to

drag Tiberius out of the room.

LIAM: Now go home and get your shine box.

(laughter)

MATT: All right. Percy, you're up.

TALIESIN: All right. I'm going to step into the
room, to give some cover. Right about, probably

just slightly on the other end of this.

MATT: Where, over here?

TALIESIN: No, like, next to Keyleth, like near
Keyleth.

MATT: Oh, you're gonna have to go around here,
then. This is a really harrowing place.

TALIESIN: Okay, the first thing I'm going to do,
is I'm going to-- I've got my ice shot loaded. I'm

going to take a shot at the break in the ceiling
and I'm gonna try and ice it over.

MATT: Okay, all right. So as you pull over, you go
ahead and aim up with your ice shot ready. Go

ahead and fire.

TALIESIN: That's 20.

MATT: 20 definitively hits. It's not hard to do.
Go ahead and roll damage and that will signify how

long and how much it will stop. So just the ice
damage. Not the actual bullet, it won't do

anything. So just--

TALIESIN: Oh. So just the ice damage

MATT: Just the ice damage.

TALIESIN: Two.

MATT: Two. Okay. So as you blast up, you can see,
as the magma's beginning to pour down again, you

blast it and it immediately-- a spot cools into a
rock and begins to slip again. You've maybe given

yourself a couple more seconds. That may be what
you need, you don't know. But that's all you got

on that one.

TALIESIN: Okay, my next shot, I'm just gonna turn
to the king and just shoot.

MATT: Okay, go for it.

TALIESIN: I'm also gonna spend a point for
additional damage. And I'm also taking

Sharpshooter for additional damage.

MATT: Okay.

TALIESIN: That's 16.

MATT: 16 versus armor class will not hit,
unfortunately.

TALIESIN: Oh! Wait, okay, no, I just, I don't get
the-- oh god, it's not Pathfinder, gah!

MATT: Yeah.

TALIESIN: Okay, that's fine. I'm gonna spend my
bonus action to take another shot.

MATT: Okay, so you're using your Action Surge?

TALIESIN: Yeah.

MATT: Okay. So Action Surge. You now have two more
attacks. Go for it.

TALIESIN: 23, eff you.

MATT: That hits.

(laughter)

TALIESIN: That's nine points of damage.

MATT: Nine points of damage, got it.

TALIESIN: Taking another shot.

MATT: All right.

TALIESIN: This shot's fire, fire bonus damage. And
I'm also gonna spend another grit point to maybe

do a little more damage. 28 to hit.

MATT: That hits. Go ahead and roll damage. With
the extra grit point you do two dice, right?

TALIESIN: Yeah. I get a bonus die, I just have to
find one. Oh, that'll do. That's 17 points of

damage plus one point of fire damage.

MATT: Nice. Okay, so, the next-- the first shot
fires, just ricochets off his armor and streaks

across the room. You get his attention, though,
and he looks back at you with this kind of wild

look in his eyes, the muscles tensing. You can see
the armor actually bending and twisting against

his physical form underneath. However, the next
shot blasts off side of his jaw, there's actually

a giant gap now in his flesh as he looks back at
you and you can see his teeth. And as he grits

down towards you, now definitely intent on getting
vengeance on that, the second shot (impact sound)

takes off a chunk of his head. You can see the
skull exposed on where you've now taken a piece of

flesh off the top of his scalp. He's looking
pretty rough.

TALIESIN: Let's move it, people. And I'm gonna
take like a step back towards the door. Just with

what's remaining of my movement.

MATT: Okay. You can get back to there. All right.
That brings us to--

TALIESIN: Oh, I killed him, didn't I? No, he's not
dead, damn it.

MATT: He's not dead yet. Not dead yet.

TALIESIN: I know, that would've been so cool.

MATT: All right. The mind flayer, who is no longer
dominated as Clarota took his attention off of

that for the time being, looks around at everyone,
sees the circumstance, the magma flowing down, and

just grabs his chest and you can see his form
blink out and vanish.

ORION: (groans) He peaced out.

MATT: That brings us to the top. Vax. At this
round, by the way, is broken and has begun to

spread, the magma has now filled this much of the
room. And it's quickening.

LIAM: My boots of haste are on, so I run-- I just
dart right around Grog, around that column, up to

the queen, while pulling out my keen dagger, I
speak my mother's name, kiss the blade and shove

it in, right into her collarbone.

MATT: All right, go ahead and roll for the attack.

LIAM: So that's a two, but I'm gonna use Luck. I
get ad-- 20.

MATT: 20 does hit.

LIAM: Because of it, and because Grog's there,
this--

MATT: Grog is not an ally, currently. You do not
get Sneak Attack.

LIAM: Don't get Sneak Attack, all right. Three,
ten, then. That's the first attack. And the second

one also hits, that's a 29.

MATT: All right.

LIAM: Is ten.

MATT: Ten, nice. So the first blade plunges into
her clavicle, she maneuvers out of the way to the

point where it misses any vital points, but still
sinks in. She looks at you angrily and you can see

her dull white, ashy, duergar eyes flash with an
intense arcane rage. As you pull the blade out,

her eyes dart around with some sort of a plan, a
thought process going through her head, as the

other blade sinks into the side of her torso she
spits out blood that actually spatters across your

face. She pushes the blade out and you see her
preparing herself for something. That ends your

turn. Grog currently moves forward towards you.

LIAM: (Grog voice) Wrong direction!

MATT: That is a 25 versus armor class.

LIAM: Yeah, but Uncanny Dodge!

MATT: How many times can you-- you've already used
that. It's once per encounter. Once per encounter

you can use that. Next one is a 21 versus armor
class?

LIAM: Once a round.

MATT: Once a round you can do it? Okay, well never
mind. So take half on that first attack. All

right, so. First strike comes at you with a-- oof,
that'll be 19 points of damage. Reduced to nine.

LIAM: Yeah, okay.

MATT: Second strike hits you for a total of 15
points of damage. So 24 total.

MARISHA: Could be worse.

MATT: And that's Grog's go. That brings us to
Scanlan.

LIAM: That really hurts, Grog.

SAM: With my knowledge of the arcane arts, do I
have any knowledge that using my Dispel Magic

spell would work on Grog? Or do I just have to try
it?

MATT: It's a possibility. You know the spell
that's been cast on him-- you use it. There is a

chance, but it has to be a contested roll.

LIAM: You could roll a 20.

MARISHA: You could roll a 20.

SAM: Does it take my move to just stand up?

MATT: Yes, it does, unfortunately. So it's your
call.

SAM: But I don't have to be standing to cast a
spell--

MATT: No, but I would say it's going to be
difficult, it's going to give--

SAM: All right, I'll stand up.

MATT: All right. You get back up. What are you
doing?

SAM: And I will-- Jesus, is it better for me to
get out of there or get the king?

LAURA: Yeah, get the king. You may be able to kill
him. He's on his last legs, probably.

MATT: He's looking pretty rough.

SAM: Yeah, but Keyleth is right behind him.

LIAM: Do it. Stab him.

LAURA: You can attack him with your sword.

SAM: I am a tiny, tiny boy. I can only do--

LAURA: Do it anyway. He's at his last legs. It
would be epic, Scanlan.

MATT: What do you got? Go ahead, quick. Magma's
pouring through.

SAM: Okay, I swing my Singing Dawnblade at him.
(laughs) I have a dawn blade. It's just so lame

though! It's so weak!

MATT: Okay, so. Go ahead and roll for an attack,
d20.

SAM: A natural 20.

(cheering)

MARISHA: We said he could roll a 20! We called it!
Who called it? We called it.

MATT: So, roll the dice.

SAM: So that's eight.

MATT: You rolled an eight. Times two, that's 16,
plus whatever the bonus damage is for the sword.

SAM: Plus seven. Plus the dawn blade gets another
bonus attack at disadvantage.

MATT: It does. So, you strike with a critical hit,
doing-- let's see, that's eight, 16, plus seven,

23 points of damage, go ahead and roll for a
second attack.

SAM: I've never hit anyone with a sword before!
Five.

ASHLEY: Can I give him a War God's Blessing and
give him a plus ten?

MATT: You can.

ASHLEY: All right, plus ten, so fifteen.

MATT: So what's your total? You rolled a five,
plus--

SAM: Five plus-- ten-- I don't know, what am I
adding? I've never used a sword before!

MATT: Add your proficiency modifier, which is
four, plus your strength modifier, so that's five

to that, which is ten, makes it 20, which hits!
Roll damage on the attack.

(cheering)

MARISHA: Kill him, kill him!

SAM: Six!

MATT: Six points of damage. All right, six on that
plus your strength, which is one. Seven. Plus the

dawn blade, which is-- that's eight. So that's
eight damage on top of the 23.

How do you want to do this?

(cheering)

SAM: I-- as I draw back the blade, I say, oh! You
should've stood on your head! And I lop it off.

MATT: So. As you say that, you-- the blade
vibrates to the sound of your voice, like the

echoing of a song of Scanlan behind yours in
almost a chorus out of nowhere. The blade streaks

through the air, coming down, slitting across the
back of his Achilles' tendon. He instinctually

falls to one knee, which is kind of the height
level for you. As you do, you bring the blade

around with a flourish and take Murghol's head off
his shoulders. It spins, tumbles to the ground,

and rolls across the floor into the magma.
Blackened beard curling back as the rest of his

face is melted away by the lava, which is now
pouring pretty heavily into this room.

SAM: (sings) Scanlan make you feel good!

MATT: All right. So that's your action. And your
movement. And your bonus action. No, you did your

bonus action to do the extra attack.

SAM: Oh! Great, great. I don't know how to use
swords!

MATT: All right, so. That's the end of your turn.
Wow! You used a sword! And got a kill! On a boss!

SAM: Yay!

ASHLEY: Good job, Scanlan!

MATT: All right, King Murghol's turn would be now,
but he's on the ground. Vex?

LAURA: I call Trinket back. Get him away from that
lava. I run past, 'cause I can't-- can I see? Do I

have an angle or is it being blocked by molten
tornado?

MATT: You-- it's completely blocked right now.

LAURA: Can I run across behind it?

MATT: Through here?

LAURA: Yeah. Is that magmous right now?

MATT: Yeah, it is. It's still pouring! She slowed
it down, but it's still breaking through and

pouring out slower. It would be even bigger if
they hadn't slowed it.

LAURA: Okay, then well, maybe I won't run in that
direction. I run in the other direction and down--

yeah. So I can see.

MATT: Go for it. Roll for an attack.

LAURA: Okay.

MATT: First attack.

LAURA: First attack is (sings) 20. No. 19.

MATT: Hits.

LAURA: Yes! Okay. 14.

MATT: 14 points of damage.

LAURA: Second attack is-- Second attack is (sings)
21!

MATT: Hits. Roll damage on that.

LAURA: What's that? 12?

MATT: 12 to hit?

LAURA: Yeah.

MATT: Or 12 damage?

LAURA: 12 damage.

MATT: All right, 12 damage.

LAURA: Oh, um. Hunter's Mark. Damn it.

Bonus action!

MATT: Yep. All right, so both arrows (impact
sounds). One clips her in the leg, and the other

embeds itself in her abdomen. You see she grabs
for it. She's looking really rough. Next is Kima.

Kima's stone. It's now the queen's turn. She looks
over at you who's stabbed her, the arrows in her

abdomen, and she looks up at Grog and says,
(sighs) "We've got business elsewhere." And she

reaches out and touches Grog. Both of them blink
out, Dimension Door.

SAM: We've lost Grog again!

MATT: A very familiar purplish color as you've
seen you cast it, they Dimension Door out of the

entire vicinity.

SAM: Son of a--

MARISHA: This is the second time we've lost Grog.

MATT: At which point, the stone rocks crack on the
column and the magma now goes into full pour.

LAURA: We've got to get out!

MATT: You guys have to get out of that tunnel.
What do you do now, what's the process?

ASHLEY: We run!

SAM: Wait, we gotta get our stone friends out.

MATT: So, this is going into a skill challenge
now.

LAURA: Yeah, we all run out that--

SAM: No, we don't all run out, they're stone, we
have to drag them out, yeah.

LIAM: Who all's stone, it's Tiberius
and Kima? Okay.

MARISHA: Can we-- where's the magic carpet? Throw
their asses on the magic carpet!

LAURA: Grog has the magic carpet. Grog had
everything.

SAM: Wait, Feather Fall, do you have Feather
Fall?

ASHLEY: Before, before we leave, can I take some
of the basilisk's blood and put it in a vial?

MATT: Okay, this will be the first skill
challenge. Go ahead and make a dexterity check.

ASHLEY: Dexterity check?

MARISHA: Oh, can we get the magic carpet now?

MATT: No, the magic carpet is in the bag of
holding. That thing is huge. You carry that with

you, you would be at disadvantage for everything
you've been doing.

ORION: Oh, I see.

ASHLEY: 18!

MATT: 18, okay, so. I mean, you go over to it, and
you manage to gather up into your wine skin a

little bit of basilisk's blood, best you can. The
magma pulls close to you and you manage to just

take six points of fire damage from just the
general heat of the magma now pouring into the

room. It's spilling out and now just continuing to
fill the rest of this chamber.

LIAM: I shout to Percy, come, Tiberius, now!

TALIESIN: We pick him up.

MATT: Both of you guys make an athletics check.

SAM: Oh, it's not a strength check?

MATT: For this, this is just an athletics to pull
them all off.

LIAM: 19.

TALIESIN: 17.

MATT: Okay. You guys grab and pull Tiberius out of
the room. It takes the two of you to heft him

over. You manage to pull him out of the way, that
works out well. Down the stairway, all right. We

don't need the video for this, we're just going to
do this visually. So, you guys manage to bring

Tiberius down the stairway. What are you doing,
Scanlan?

SAM: I'm unfurling my Bull's Strength scroll and
reading it so I get a plus five to strength? Is

that a thing?

MATT: All right, so that's Enhance Ability. So you
go ahead and give yourself Enhance Ability. Your

strength is now-- you have advantage on all of
your strength checks.

SAM: Okay, and I start to help, who was pushing
Kima? I'm gonna help push Kima out.

LAURA: Oh wait, no! Wait, didn't Clarota take
Kima?

MATT: No, Clarota pulled Kima out of the room.

LAURA: Oh, so we're all fucking fine, let's just
get out.

MATT: So you guys are fine.

MARISHA: I go ahead and on our way out I cast
Create Water, and I kinda just use my air ability

and make a mist to try and like mist the lava
that's coming towards us.

MATT: Okay. You do, but the magma's so intense and
this has filled so much of the room now that you

get a localized area. The rest of it just kinda
flows around and continues to fill the space. All

right, so. All of you guys make a dexterity check
to try to get down quickly. Go for it.

ASHLEY: Can I make another one?

MATT: Yes, everyone makes one.

TALIESIN: Natural 20.

LIAM: Natural 20.

ORION: (hoarsely) I rolled a 19!

MARISHA: 20.

SAM: (sings) Seven!

ASHLEY: Four!

LAURA: Do I get to roll twice 'cause of terrain?

MATT: Because of-- yes you do.

SAM: Do I get my Enhance Ability?

MATT: Not for this one.

ORION: I would like to note that I am frozen like
this.

MATT: Okay, Tiberius is.

LAURA: 29.

MATT: Okay, gotcha. So, Pike and Scanlan, both of
you guys are, unfortunately 'cause you're smaller

and your legs are moving, you guys rush down the
stairway and curl around. As the rest of you make

your way to the door, which is currently closed,
you are all kinda gathered at the exterior of

that hidden doorway. It's currently dark and held
shut on where you guys entered. However, you two,

the magma's now reached the stairway. It's
beginning to pour down off the top, and it manages

to catch the two of you. You guys each take five
points of heat damage from the magma's proximity.

LIAM: To the two ladies?

MATT: No, Pike and Scanlan. You guys make it to
the bottom floor. The doorway is currently closed

for the secret exit of the fortress.

LIAM: Vax drops Tiberius' stone ass to the ground
and starts feeling to get the mechanism of the

door open.

SAM: Are we at the foot of the stairs yet, me and
Pike?

MATT: You guys just make it to the foot of the
stairs. You guys are now--

MARISHA: It's a big stone door?

MATT: Yeah, it's the one you guys, the one you
guys-- it opens up, outward.

MARISHA: I just cast Stone Shape and make a hole.

MATT: Okay, as you're feeling around for the
mechanism, Keyleth steps forward and basically the

stone turns into almost a clay, and she just pulls
it apart.

MARISHA: Sorry, Vax. I didn't mean to, like,
overstep there.

MATT: A giant glob of magma pours down and
splashes down onto the ground, hitting everyone in

the vicinity. Everyone down here takes 12 points
of heat damage.

LIAM: Ah, it's hot, it's hot, it's hot!

LAURA: Hot hot hot hot hot.

LIAM: All right, I'm picking up Tiberius' stone
butt and continuing--

MATT: Okay, you guys push through the open hole
that Keyleth pushed in, sweat dripping down your

faces as the heat proximity to you is
nigh-intolerable. You make your way out of the

gate and now you have that giant magma flow.

LAURA: Oh, right! Is the thing not-- wasn't
there--

MATT: No no-- as you guys go and step out, the
doorway that opened up, previously? Is what parted

the magma flow. You pulled it open, so now it's
just a wall of magma in front of you.

LAURA: She also had created a wall barrier.

MARISHA: I did create a wall over top.

MATT: You did. It's not there anymore.

MARISHA: It was permanent!

MATT: It was permanent, but a perpetual flow of
magma on it for a period of a few hours will

eventually eat through a stone wall.

LAURA: Can you cast it again?

MARISHA: I can. Yeah. Do it again. Bam.

MATT: Okay. It's probably the last of that. You
create a stone wall that juts out, once again

blocking off the magma flow. You guys all step out
of the room just as the main force of magma begins

to fill the room behind you. Everyone make one
more dexterity check to get out in time, as it's a

small space and you're pushing out.

SAM: Natural 20.

ORION: 16.

MATT: You made nothing.

MARISHA: "You made nothing." Seven.

TALIESIN: Ten.

ASHLEY: Two.

LAURA: Oh no. 29.

LIAM: 12.

MATT: Okay. Everyone under 15: you, you, Percy, I
believe, and Keyleth. The magma now, as you're

helping getting your friends out, you're pushing
out, you push Vex out-- Vex darts out, Scanlan

manages to get out. As you guys are pulling
Tiberius through, the hefty force of magma comes

funneling down into the room and splashes across
the floor.

TALIESIN: Oh, that's a lot of dice.

MATT: That is 18 points of heat damage.

LIAM: Vax is unconscious.

MARISHA: 18 points?

MATT: As you're pushing through, Vax, you fall
unconscious as the magma is currently lapping at

the back of your leg. The rest of you begin
pushing out as you begin to realize that your

half-elf friend is currently melting in a pool of
magma.

ASHLEY: Can I grab him? Can I grab him out?

MATT: Go ahead and make a strength check. This is
strength at this point, this is pure adrenaline

pushing through.

ASHLEY: 12!

MATT: 12. You manage to start pulling him up
through the hole that Keyleth made.

TALIESIN: I'm going to assist, I'm pulling out--
I'm doing another ice shot to try and cool off the

magma around him.

LAURA: I send Trinket up, to like, pull him.

MATT: Before you get to that point, as you're
readying for it, 'cause it's a small space-- as

you're pulling it, giant bear claws come over and
latch onto the back of Vax's armor. The grizzly

bear begins to tense, pulling back. Makes a
strength check. That'll do it. Both of you manage

to pull you out. You take an additional bit of
heat damage. You are now at two failed saving

throws. Two failed death saving throws.

LIAM: I am a centimeter away from real death.

MATT: As he pulls it out, you can see most of his
foot is melted. And his right leg.

SAM: Aw, that's his best leg.

TALIESIN: I pull a level two healing potion, just
get it in his mouth.

MATT: Okay, you pull it out. At this point, the
magma's beginning to fill up the room,

by the way.

MARISHA: Okay, wait wait wait, can I take my stone
wall and like, close it off?

We're all out, right?

MATT: You're outside of it. How long does Stone
Shape last?

MARISHA: Stone Shape?

MATT: What you used on the wall.

MARISHA: I'm just-- I'm just taking it away.

MATT: Closing the wall?

MARISHA: I'm closing it. I can do it again, I
still have two more spell slots.

MATT: Okay, how many spells do you have at that
level?

MARISHA: Three.

MATT: Three. So you spent--

MARISHA: One, so far.

MATT: One going out, coming-- no, wait, it's the
same-- you haven't had a chance to do a full

night's rest.

MARISHA: I know. I was an animal all week-- all
last game. I didn't use any last game.

MATT: That's true, so you used the stone form,
used Stone Wall.

MARISHA: I used one Stone Wall last week and I
have two level five spells now.

MATT: That's true, that's true, you do, that's
good. All right, I just wanted to make sure. Okay,

so as you do that, you send up another Stone Wall.
It blocks off the magma just as it begins to pour

over and spill out into this vicinity. It'll last
a short time, but it'll last enough for what you

guys need. You guys drag--

ASHLEY: Can I heal him?

MATT: You can attempt to, yeah, go for it.

LAURA: Anticipation.

MARISHA: I know. C'mon, Pike!

ASHLEY: 24.

MATT: All right. Heals you.

LAURA: Oh my god.

MATT: Comes to consciousness. You guys are about
ten feet away from the base of the stronghold.

Your foot heals up, but it's still burned.

LAURA: Ew, get that away from me.

MATT: For the time being, until you can take some
serious physical rest, your movement is reduced by

five. And your stealth rolls are currently at
disadvantage.

ASHLEY: Can that ever be healed?

MATT: Over time with some rest it can be, but
right now-- like, you're healed up, but that foot

is scarred. It probably spent a good six seconds
completely submerged in molten lava.

LIAM: Are you telling me I'll never compete in the
roller derby again?

(laughter)

MATT: Quite possibly. You all are just on the
outskirts of the stronghold. You can see now

elements of the windows of the top floor are
beginning to glow with internal light, as the

entire stronghold is currently filling up entirely
with molten rock.

SAM: Oh, I left my keys in there!

(laughter)

MATT: You're all resting for a moment, off to the
side. Grog is missing. And you all take a

moment to realize that somehow you all managed to
survive this, mostly.

MARISHA: Sort of.

MATT: However, you didn't find the vault, didn't
find Kima's stuff, and a number of escaped

individuals from this are out and at large. We'll
end today's game on that note.

LIAM: Percy, I need Bad News to be my other foot
now.

MARISHA: Yeah, you should have-- you need, like, a
sweet pimp swagger now.

MATT: So that went a little long, guys. Thank you
for your-- for hanging out, but that was an

intense session. Some climactic moments there.

LIAM: Are you sure you guys don't want to send in
a bulette, right now?

MARISHA: Yeah, or maybe, like, you know, a black
ooze. You wanna do that?

SAM: Wow, guys.

ZAC: That was fucking intense.

MATT: That was crazy!

ZAC: Guys. Riveting. And exhausting. Are you guys
tired?

ALL: Yes.

ZAC: No dancing tonight, guys, get over it.

ASHLEY: Sorry it went late.

LAURA: That went so long, I'm sorry guys.

ZAC: No, they are happy that you went late. They
want you to stay forever.

MATT: That was nuts.

ZAC: So I wanted to make a couple announcements of
people that helped out tonight. Not just donators,

oh so-- I'm gonna read off a couple of people who
helped out first and then we're gonna start off

reading off people who donated to the charity. If
you want us to read off who you are and your

message to the Critical Role crew, you still have
time to donate, 'cause I'll start at the bottom

and work my way up. So if the mods could post the
link to, you know, the command for Critical Role

and you guys'll see there's a link there to
donate. Donate to 826LA. Every little bit helps

these guys a lot and it would be really helpful to
the stream and the show. These guys have been

working really hard and Matt puts in a ton of time
and to show your support, go donate to the charity

and we'll get to your messages.

Okay, so first off, I'm gonna thank
the_Duganator8--

MARISHA: Yes! Was it the Duganator's birthday?

ZAC: Yes!

ALL: Happy birthday, Duganator!

MARISHA: (sings) Happy happy birthday, from all of
us to you. We wish it was our birthdays, so...

we're partying. Yay, woohoo!

ZAC: Way to not use the copywritten one.

MARISHA: (laughs) Yeah, way to not use the
copywritten one, yeah.

ZAC: Arislan and Alduin and JakeBoudreaux and
Negihama and Duganator8 were all the ones that

pitched in to buy dinner for you guys.

MARISHA: Thank you guys, we love it, cupcakes!
Happy birthday.

ZAC: And then as a quick update for what's
happening tomorrow, we have three performances

tomorrow night. So tomorrow is Gather Your Party
and it's kinda like our bring your friends, have a

good time with board games and music and
everything. So Indiecade's coming by tomorrow

night to show off some new board games. And then
we have two bands playing, Sonja Midtune and

Bearwolf. And then we have the musical improv
group that was here during the charity drive is

coming back to do a performance, Robot Teammates
and The Accidental Party, and that's tomorrow

night, it'll be a lot of fun. So I'm just gonna
pull up these donations and messages, if you

wanted to see and start going through 'em. And
we'll probably have more as we get to the top. So

starting at Fifthdreamtoday said, "I love Critical
role, kudos for giving to a great cause."

MATT: Oh thank you, Fifthdreamertoday.

ZAC: Ravendreamer: "Cheers and godspeed to the
bold members of Critical Role for supporting

"reading in children."

MATT: Thank you, Ravendreamer.

ZAC: Voractin24: "A combined donation for Critical
Role and for myself and my role group." Oh. "from

"AngelMitsu."

MATT: AngelMitsu and Voractin24, thank you.

MARISHA: Thank you, guys.

ZAC: It's hard to read some of these messages.

MATT: That's all good.

ZAC: MageInATower-- Starbuck86x. Cargoth912.
Eridinsk-- Eridinsk. I'll pull that one up.

"Thanks for all that you've done with the show,
it's amazing, definitely my favorite show, happy

"to support the charity for you guys."

MATT: Aww. Thank you, Eridinsk, that's awesome.

ZAC: Alduin. "A small thank you for what you're
doing, it's awesome. Keep it up." RGcanok

#CriticalRole.

MATT: RGcanok, thank you, buddy.

ZAC: TonyLoneFight, donate for 826LA.

MATT: Thank you, TonyLoneFight!

ZAC: CrazyNexy

MATT and MARISHA: CrazyNexy.

MARISHA: You're crazy.

ZAC: FurryHunter85, "hope it helps a little."

MARISHA: It does. It helps a lot.

ZAC: Almostheaven, "This is becoming a weekly
thing, much love, the #CriticalRole crew."

Becoming a weekly thing for us too.

MARISHA: Almostheaven? More like totally heaven.
Always heaven.

ZAC: Zanderinvictus: "Worthy cause and worthy
people to make my Thursday so enjoyable

"#lessthan3"

MATT: Aww thank you, Zanderinvictus.

ZAC: Nixdeathsticks: "I don't encourage
violence."

(laughter)

ZAC: Warmcustard: "I was totally gripped
tonight."

MARISHA: Thanks Warmcustard!

(laughter)

ZAC: Samwheeler: "Incredible stream tonight,
thanks so much."

MATT: Thank you, Samwheeler. You guys are
awesome!

ZAC: Sure enough, there's, oh my gosh.

MARISHA: I know I'm getting more now, muzzbuzz.

ZAC: Poltergeist123.

MATT: Thank you Poltergeist.

MARISHA: That's a good movie!

ZAC: Ironwolf: "Great stuff, guys."

MATT: Ironwolf! Strong name!

ZAC: Dumoco: "Thank you for a wonderful time,
thank you all for a wonderful time."

MATT: Thank you for watching, Dumoco!

ZAC: Tone17: "Another donation to a good cause to
push karma in the party's favor."

MARISHA: We like the karma!

TALIESIN: More 20s!

ZAC: Frisbee: "Thank you for letting us share your
adventures. It means a lot to us too."

MARISHA: Thanks Frisbee!

ZAC: 13Modem, "Thanks Critical Role team."
thisisbonertown: "The least I can do for

"entertaining all of us."

MATT: Yeah bonertown!

(laughter)

MARISHA: You are the least we can do to entertain
ourselves.

ZAC: LightningGemini: "I love Critical Role, you
guys are amazing."

MATT: Thank you LightningGemini.

ZAC: Wheelyfactoid: "Love you guys, can't wait to
finish my knife for Liam and bear for Laura."

MARISHA: Wait, what?!

ZAC: Sounds like they're making a knife for Liam
and bear for Laura.

TALIESIN: How do you make a-- nope.

LIAM: I encourage violence.

(laughter)

LAURA: I encourage massages.

ZAC: Sickwizard: "Every kid should know how to
read, I love Critical Role,

"Matt, feel free to TPK."

LAURA: No!

MATT: I don't try to!

ZAC: You know-- oops, sorry, from Zenjurken: "You
know it's good when you're worried for the

"characters on screen, and good luck."
Scaviensuretoriot. Popeblasterfighter: "I love you

"guys so much and you guys make me laugh every
time." Danmanmountain: "Thanks Critical Rollers.

"Great show tonight, happy to give back #23fu."

MATT: Ha! I saw that in the chatroom

ORION: 23fu meet Bonertown.

ZAC: Headance. Tiberiusthelad.
FicklePickletickler: "#Zacsbonerjams"

(laughter)

MARISHA: FicklePicketickler, that's great.

MATT: Thanks FicklePicketickler.

ORION: Also lives in bonertown.

ZAC: And one more, this will be the last one,
SilentKagamusha: "Critical Role is why I am now

"addicted to and starting my first game of D&D."

(cheering)

ZAC: "Matthew Mercer is why I will DM so I should
help out."

MATT: Good on you, buddy! Storytelling.

ZAC: If anyone donates after and we go offline,
I'll make sure these guys get the messages

and they're aware that you donated. Thank you all
for tuning in. You guys are killer. Killer show.

MARISHA: Thank you guys so much! You are all
amazing, I love you so much.

ZAC: We're going to go offline and then come back
up with the rebroadcast of Thursday and you'll see

this playing throughout the night and tomorrow
morning, and will be up on the website tomorrow,

so thank you. Thank you guys.

MATT: See you next week.

SAM: Bye!