MATT: Hey, everyone. Sorry about that little issue
there. But thank you for your patience. I

appreciate that. Going back over what had
transpired previously. So the party was hired to

go into Kraghammer seeking Lady Kima of Vord, who
is a renowned folk hero, a halfling paladin of

much renown, following Bahamut, the Platinum
Dragon of justice and good, who went on a vision

quest, apparently seeing some sort of evil brewing
beneath Kraghammer, and went on her own to seek it

and destroy it. Hasn't been seen for many
weeks-- months, even -- since. And so the party has

then gone into Kraghammer to attempt to locate
her. After some conversing, some brawling, some

interesting circumstances, they found information
that she disappeared into the Mithril mines just

underneath the lower circle of Kraghammer. They've
since battled a few creatures, apparently these

strange monstrosities are coming out of the mines
recently. And they've had dwarven miners being

taken and disappearing. They charged into the
mines, found one of the series of tunnels that had

broken into the mines from some other source,
encountered a few umber hulks, were ambushed by

some duergar, which are subterranean, dark, ashen
grey--

TRAVIS: Dickholes.

MATT: -- messed-up dwarves and an intellect
devourer, which proceeded to blast Grog, reduce

his intelligence to zero, and leave him catatonic
and brain-dead.

TRAVIS: (laughs)

MATT: And that's where we left off. But we'll pick
up that in a second. Let's go ahead and continue

our introductions. We had Taliesin, now we have
Marisha--

MARISHA: Yes! Hello, I am Marisha Ray, and I am
Keyleth of the Air Ashari tribe.

And I am the Circle of the Moon druid. Level nine.

MATT: Mm-hm.

TRAVIS: Wow.

MATT: Orion?

ORION: Hi! I am Orion Acaba. And I play Tiberius
Stormwind, the dragonborn sorcerer.

Level nine. Super badass.

TRAVIS: Scaly.

SAM: Oh hi, I am Sam Riegel. I play Scanlan
Shorthalt, the level nine bard gnome,

who is the handsomest and most charming of 
the group.

(all laugh)

TRAVIS: Scanlan Shorthalt.

SAM: Scanlan Shorthalt.

MATT: Yeah. Esquire.

LAURA: The third.

MATT: Yes, the third.

LAURA: Hi! Oh, my brother is extra, extra stealth
right now.

TRAVIS: Yeah.

LAURA: But I play Vex'ahlia, who is a half-elf
ranger, and I have an amazing--

SAM: Ranger!

LAURA: -- companion bear named Trinket, who is
basically the coolest ever. And he's good at

everything he does. I'm okay. But he's excellent.

MATT: He's really, really good. Yeah.

TRAVIS: I'm Grog Strongjaw. I'm a goliath
barbarian, level nine.

LAURA: Oh, I didn't say that. Level nine.

TRAVIS: I have an intelligence of six normally,
but now it's negative two.

LAURA: Oh!

TRAVIS: And my brain is made of applesauce.

LAURA: Poor Grog!

MATT: Liam, who is not here yet, but will be here
shortly but--

TRAVIS: He's peeing.

MATT: He is peeing, and what's--

ORION: Oh my god.

TRAVIS: On a tree.

MATT: And when he returns we'll get to his
introduction as well.

TRAVIS: Stealthily.

MATT: And Ashley Johnson, who has missed the last
couple of games because she's been filming,

when she returns will be playing Pike.

LAURA: Hey!

TALIESIN: Hey!

MATT: Who is a cleric. Our gnome cleric.

Liam's arrived! Huzzah!

LAURA: We're just introducing ourselves, that's
all.

MATT: Exactly! It's okay, we've had technical
difficulties, so.

ORION: Oh, hey, he made the introductions, folks.

LAURA: Oh, hi, Mark, welcome to the game.

LIAM: Oh, hi.

MATT: Before we start too, just a couple quick
announcements. A couple cool games that have come

out recently that some of us have been involved
with. Today was the launch of Pillars of Eternity,

a completely awesome kind of successor to Baldur's
Gate. Both me and Liam are part of that as well.

Those who are playing through, I voice Aloth and
Adair.

Liam, if you remember any characters you voiced 
in it.

LIAM: The guy.

MATT: The guy.

LAURA: (laughs)

MATT: He voices the guy.

We're scattered throughout the game so
just-- If you can't get enough of us here, you'll

be really hating our voices by playing through
that. And then also, Orion--

ORION: Oh, yeah. On a more radder note, Final
Fantasy Type-0--

you should play-- is out also. I play Nine. 
In that.

MATT: Yeah.

ORION: And Matthew Mercer plays Trey in it as
well.

MATT: Yeah.

LIAM: I thought seven ate nine.

LAURA: We're all pimping our shizz.

ORION: Seven does maybe eat nine. Who knows?

MATT: Oh.

LIAM: I'm a dad.

MARISHA: (laughs) I'm a dad.

ORION: Who knows, but it's definitely a different
take on any Final Fantasy you've ever played.

And as a fan, I'm excited, so check it out, too.

MATT: Yeah, it's legit awesome. So a lot of cool,
exciting things.

LIAM: Also, this one's in Tales from the
Borderlands being awesome.

LAURA: Oh, yeah.

MATT: Yeah.

LAURA: Episode two just came out.

MATT: That's right! Congrats!

LAURA: Yes.

SAM: And I'll be playing at the Laugh Barn in St.
Louis.

(all laugh)

ORION: Every Tuesday.

SAM: Three. Three nights. Three nights sold out.

ORION: Three nights.

SAM: Opening for Carrot Top.

ORION: Check it out.

MATT: All right. Well, guys, let's go get down to
brass tacks.

So, last we left off, in a subterranean
cavern with a deep underground river flowing

through it. Pitch darkness. You managed to survive
a conflict with two umber hulks, thanks to

Polymorph and some good tactics. However, Grog
then charged headlong towards a light source--

turned out to be a campfire across the way-- where
he walked into an ambush by a few duergar which

began shooting him with crossbow bolts. And an
intellect devourer

made him brain-dead. You guys--

LAURA: He's got nobody to blame but himself.

MATT: Kind of, that's okay. Grog owns it-- as you
can see by his glasses. So.

(all laugh)

MARISHA: I love those.

MATT: So. We're beginning now as Grog has
collapsed, face down on the ground, drooling.

LIAM: The future's so bright.

MATT: The last of the duergar have been blown off
the cliff or destroyed. You all rush in, and find

Grog not moving, not responding, not anything.

TRAVIS: Somebody pretty give me CPR.

LAURA: Don't talk.

TRAVIS: Okay.

SAM: Grog! Grog, can you hear us?

LAURA: I rush down--

SAM: Can you feel us near you?

LAURA: -- and slap him on the face a few times.

MATT: You slap him.

SAM: Nothing.

MATT: You slap him.

SAM: Nothing.

MATT: You slap him. No response.

SAM: Someone, quick! Draw a dick on his face!

MARISHA: I also bend down and slap him a few
times.

(all laugh)

MARISHA: And then I say, I knew it wouldn't work.
I just-- Dammit, Grog!

TALIESIN: I'm going to actually try a crude
medical examination to see if I can--

SAM: Ooh, investigation check?

TRAVIS: So here's your numbers.

MATT: Okay.

TALIESIN: And yes! This is nice. 19.

MATT: A 19 on the medicine?

TALIESIN: On the medicine, yeah.

MATT: Okay.

TRAVIS: You leave my prostate alone.

(all laugh)

TALIESIN: After I palpate the region.

MATT: A thorough goliath cavity search later--

MARISHA: Ohh.

MATT: You find some stray gold pieces.

LIAM: There's where that pony went!

TALIESIN: That's a very deep belly button you have
there, my god!

MATT: The goliath physicality's a little
difficult.

LIAM: Found the troll dick!

LAURA: Ohh.

MATT: Looking over him, and there's very little
physical damage to him. He shrugs it off pretty

easily. There's no notable sign or anything other
than the fact that his eyes aren't reacting to

anything. It looks like he is catatonic.

TALIESIN: No bleeding from the ear? No bleeding
from the nose?

MATT: Nope.

TALIESIN: I'm going to go take a look at the
remnants of the brain creature.

MATT: All right. What bits of the currently
thawing chunks of it-- blasted apart by Tiberius'

Glacial Blast-- It appears to be tougher than
normal, but very similar to gray matter in appearance

and texture. Other than these strange, kind of
reddish-brown bestial legs that were once attached

to its mid-section are now blown apart and cast to
the ground.

The whole texture seems very slimy and rubbery.

LAURA: Ew.

MATT: And it's much larger than any natural brain
should be. It's probably-- When it was all in one

piece, it would have been roughly about the size
of a small dog.

LAURA: Do any of us know anything about magic that
could heal him? Like any spells.

MATT: Do you?

LAURA: I mean--

MARISHA: I think I might--

ORION: It's clear that when that brain thing hit
Grog with his zapper thing, that it rendered him

unconscious. I would assume that it is a magical
creature, just based on the attack alone.

LAURA: Thank you, Tiberius.

MARISHA: Anything we should know?

SAM: Excellent assessment, Tiberius.

LAURA: Thank you.

ORION: Quite right.

TALIESIN: He got zapped and now he's unconscious.

SAM: A shorter way of saying the same thing.

LAURA: Maybe we should try-- Does anybody have any
healing? I know Pike isn't here, but--

MARISHA: I--

ORION: You have something, don't you?

MARISHA: I think I have a spell. That might be
able to help. I don't know it right now though.

We'd have to take a break. I'd have to pull out my
books and relearn it. It takes some time.

LIAM: How much time do you need?

MARISHA: Need to sleep on it.

LAURA: How-- Can we--

TRAVIS: As they talk, Grog slowly flatulates.

(all laugh)

TRAVIS: (fart sound)

SAM: It happens, it's natural.

MATT: It's terrible.

LAURA: Oh! It's another-- What is it? An ass
cloud? Is that what it was?

MATT: Yeah.

SAM: Poo. Poo cloud.

LAURA: Lovely.

LIAM: Everybody make a constitution saving throw.

LAURA: Yeah, a constitution saving--

ORION: How many entrances-- How many ways or edges
where we are?

Because it's like at the center, anyway--

MATT: Yeah, you're currently basically on the
precipice of a large cavern that has multiple

layers as the river kind of cascades off into
multiple waterfalls. As far as you can see-- which

isn't far good because there's no other light
source beyond you guys-- the cavern just continues

indefinitely for a good 60 feet and then just
vanishes into darkness.

LAURA: Well, maybe we should sleep. Try to camp
for the time--

SAM: Well, we'll need to form a perimeter and
someone will have to stand guard--

MATT: Well, currently you're holding a barely
alive duergar hostage.

LAURA: (gasps) Oh! Right! I forgot about that!

SAM: Oh, we gotta interrogate.

LAURA: We gotta interrogate him! Her.

LAURA and SAM: It.

MATT: It's a female.

LIAM: Female.

LAURA: And I can speak its language.

MATT: You do.

LIAM: Hers.

MATT: You speak Undercommon.

LAURA: Hers.

MATT: First thing you note, too: it is female, and
it takes a moment to

register that because she is also bald on top.

LIAM: It. Terrible.

LAURA: Sorry.

MATT: Nasty, pale, kind of sunken face. Eyes are
completely clouded over and white, no pupils.

Teeth are kind of yellow and gnarled and sharp.

SAM: How close to death's door is she?

LIAM: What's this?

LAURA: What?

LIAM: Thank you, sir.

MARISHA: Oh my gosh.

LAURA: Oh, thank you, wonderful people!

CREW: There's more coming, this is the vegan
pizza.

ORION: Whoa!

LAURA: What?

ORION: Where's it coming?

LAURA: Thank you, chat room!

TRAVIS: Thank you, chat room.

ORION: Chat room!

SAM: Chat room? Chat room bought us a pizza?

MARISHA: Thanks, guys!

MATT: You guys are awesome! Thank you so much!

LIAM: You knew I liked jalapenos.

LAURA: Vegan pizza? Are you kidding me?

MARISHA: And donuts!

MATT: Oh yeah.

TALIESIN: Pizza made it.

LAURA: Look at those chocolate cakes! Oh.

ORION: (laughs) Oh.

SAM: All right, all right. This creature is very
injured.

I think we need to heal her just enough--

LAURA: Heal her?

SAM: Just enough.

LIAM: Not so fast, not so fast.

LAURA: We'll heal her after she talks.

LIAM: Is she unconscious?

SAM: Why don't you make that bargain then--

LIAM: I've got dagger to her throat and I'm hold--
She's bald?

MATT: Bald, yes.

LIAM: All right, so I've got an arm around the top
of her forehead in--

MATT: (hisses)

LAURA: Don't kill her. I need her.

LIAM: She's not unconscious, right?

MATT: No.

LAURA: I got up--

MATT: She's got a huge shoulder wound.

LIAM: All right, I call my sister over. I'll hold
her, you talk.

LAURA: What did you do to our friend?

MATT: "I didn't do anything. That was the brain's
work." (chuckles)

LAURA: What did the brain work do to our friend?

MARISHA: Brain twerk?

MATT: "Took care of your friend. He's gone now.
He's all dead inside. Kaputski."

LAURA: What are you here for?

MATT: "Just creating a mess."

LAURA: What should I fucking ask her? I say that
in our language, not--

(all laugh)

LAURA: What should I ask?

TALIESIN: How do we fix it?

LAURA: How do we-- (lowers voice) How do we fix
it?

TALIESIN: There you go.

MATT: "Bury your dead weight."

LIAM: I press the blade a little tighter.

MATT: "Ugh! Gah!"

LIAM: Dig in. Maybe one hit point worth of--

LAURA: No, no! She's only got one hit point left.

LIAM: She's only got one?

MATT: She's got one hit point.

LIAM: All right.

LAURA: Don't do that!

(all laugh)

TALIESIN: Is she bleeding?

MATT: Profusely. From the shoulder.

TALIESIN: Oh! In that case, I'm going to cauterize
the wounds.

There's more than one way to make 
someone talk!

LAURA: Ugh.

TALIESIN: I'm going to shoot my gun off-- get it
nice and hot

right at the tip and start cauterizing the wounds.

MATT: Okay so (gunshot). And the flash goes off.
The sound of blast echoes throughout the entirety

of the cavern. You can hear (echoing gunshot)
cascade off.

MARISHA: A little warning next time!

MATT: He takes the barrel, slams it into the
shoulder and the sizzling sound as she reaches

back in pain. Make an intimidation check.

TALIESIN: I'm intimidated.

LAURA: What should we ask her?

TALIESIN: Aha ha! 21!

MATT: 21? All right. She's now, like, breathing
heavy.

ORION: I'm using my Mage Hand to poke her in the
face.

MATT: She's trying to move her face out of the way
but she can't

seem to avoid the mystical arcane finger pokes.

(all laugh)

TALIESIN: Look, we haven't got all day. How do we
fix it--

LAURA: Who do you work for?

TALIESIN: And who do you work for?

MATT: "You fell, surface-slime. You've already
fallen, and the Master's gathered the sheep.

"You shall all be harvested for K'varn!"

ORION: Ah, is he a farmer?

SAM: You can't understand her. Only she can.

LAURA: You can't understand!

ORION: Oh.

LAURA: Who is K'varn? Does anybody know?

SAM: No, is that a thing? Is that a person?

LAURA: I don't know. I don't know. I've got--

TALIESIN: Can I roll history on that or is
that--?

LAURA: Who is K'varn?

ORION: The Carvers!

MATT: You can roll history, if you like.

TALIESIN: All right.

LAURA: Argh, who is K'varn?

MATT: "K'varn is the one that rules these caverns.
The one who guides us to take the surface back!"

LAURA: To take the surface back?

TALIESIN: A 14 in history wouldn't do anything?

MATT: No.

LAURA: Is K'varn the one making creepy zombie
monsters?

MATT: "K'varn likes to tinker with the fleshlings,
yes."

LAURA: Where is K'varn located? Point the
direction.

MATT: Looks over her shoulder back towards the
darker part of the cavern where you guys haven't

traversed. "Deep. Deep."

SAM: What is K'varn?

LAURA: What. Is. K'varn?

MATT: "You'll see."

LAURA: No, you'll tell me now.

TRAVIS: Good question.

LAURA: I slap her across the face.

MATT: Argh!

LAURA: Lightly! Not enough to make her lose a hit
point.

ORION: I poke her more!

(all laugh)

MARISHA: It's like a Three Stooges act.

MATT: "My life is already forfeit."

MARISHA: Oh!

MATT: "I'm just relishing your faces, for they
will be gnarled and twisted soon enough!"

LAURA: Break her legs. Leave her here.

MATT: You break her--

LAURA: Heal her. Maybe we should heal her--

MATT: (laughs)

LAURA: And let her lay there. Is that evil? That's
pretty evil.

TRAVIS: What's your alignment? I mean--

LAURA: My alignment. I'm good.

TALIESIN: She did just help--

MARISHA: Wait! Ask her if she's seen Nostoc. Or if
they've seen--

LAURA: Oh yes!

MARISHA: Or, yeah, if they've seen our paladin
friend. Our little--

TALIESIN: Lady Kima.

MARISHA: Lady Kima!

LAURA: Before we end your life, tell us, have you
seen a small halfling?

MATT: You see a moment of recognition in the
female duergar's face, and it's--

"There was a halfling, aye. She was foolish enough
to come down here alone. She's dead now."

SAM: (gasps)

MATT: "We've taken her life and it was
delicious."

LIAM: I drag her to her feet. Walk her over to the
edge of the cliff where the water is, and hold

her. Knife still at her neck. Tell this one: Now's
her last chance to give us anything useful

to lead to her boss, I guess.

LAURA: All right. It's your last chance. Give us
something useful? And we'll end this painlessly.

Don't, and we'll make you suffer.

MATT: Make an intimidation check.

LAURA: All right. Ooh, my new dice! Ooh! C'mon,
baby!

LIAM: I'm going to assist her by taking my other
dagger and letting it drip poison down the blade.

MATT: (laughs)

LIAM: Advantage? Advantage?

LAURA: Intimidation of 14?

LIAM: Assist?

MATT: Go ahead and roll dice.

LIAM: Me?

MATT: You, yes.

LAURA: (squeaky voice) To assist me?

LIAM: 19.

MATT: 19. Okay, go ahead and roll again.

LAURA: Oh.

LIAM: Drip drip drip drip drip.

MATT: I'm giving you the advantage on the roll
because he has a blade to her now.

LAURA: Oh, okay. Okay, still 14.

MATT: Still 14.

LAURA: I should've rolled my other one. To see.
Just to see.

MATT: She laughs and says: "Your friend's dead!
All is lost! You came for nothing!"

SAM: Can I tell if she's lying? Is it--

MATT: Make an insight check.

SAM: Insight check? Oop. No. (laughs)

LAURA: Okay, can I see if she's lying?

MATT: You can also make an insight check as well.

LAURA: All right, cool.

LIAM: I can't understand what the-- What the
hell's she saying?

LAURA: Okay, that's way better! 24!

MATT: 24. She is definitively lying through her
teeth.

LAURA: (gasps)

MATT: Just to hurt you.

LAURA: Yes! We know you're lying!

(all laugh)

MATT: "What?"

LAURA: Yes! I don't know what else to ask her,
guys. I don't know what else to ask her.

TRAVIS: What are goblins afraid of?

MATT: She looks at you for a second, goes, "Regardless, we
have her. She's down below. And, soon enough,

"you'll see. You'll see what shall become of this
halfling."

LAURA: We'll rescue her! And we're going to kill
your god!

(all laugh)

LIAM: I did it, I did it.

MATT: An ichor spray comes across.

SAM: Ugh!

LAURA: That was the worst thing.

TALIESIN: The most awkward throat-slitting I've
ever heard of.

SAM: That was very fast.

MARISHA: We're going to kill your god. Wait.

TALIESIN: Wait.

MARISHA: Fuck it, just go with it!

(all laugh)

MARISHA: Commit!

MATT: As the body goes limp in your hands, you
kinda let it tumble over the waterfall.

LIAM: Yeah.

LAURA: Good times. Good times, guys.

MATT: Um, now you guys are standing over Grog in
this kind of makeshift--

LIAM: It's a little sticky, slimy?

MATT: -- camp site. The embers of the fire kinda
going low.

LIAM: I'm starved.

TALIESIN: Well, she's researching--

LAURA: Oh!

MARISHA: Yes.

LAURA: Should we keep-- I'm going to keep watch.

LIAM: Absolutely.

LAURA: With Trinket.

SAM: We need to--

MARISHA: Do we have any idea what time it is?

MATT: At this point? It's at some point in the
evening.

MARISHA: All right.

SAM: Let's rest. Let's set up a perimeter and take
turns standing guard.

I'm going to go to the next cavern over to
where we killed those umber hulks?

MATT: Yes.

SAM: Take one of the umber hulk heads and put it
on a stick.

LAURA: Ooh.

SAM: Right out front of where we're-- Of where
we're camping as sort of a warning to others.

MATT: All right.

MARISHA: I want to check out--

LAURA: How about this?

ORION: How many cavern entrances are there from
where we're camping?

MATT: From where you are?

(creepy music sound effect)

LAURA: Oh no!

MATT: There are where you came in through--

ORION: Right.

MATT: Strange things afoot echo in the silence.
There's the entrance you came in. Across the way,

there appears to be another cavern that you can
kinda see the entrance to. Those are the only proper

openings into this giant chamber. Otherwise
there's just the giant, over-arching cave that you

guys are just getting into. Just pushing through,
so--

MARISHA: I'm gonna take the first watch--

LAURA: Oh, you are! Okay.

MARISHA: I still have a lot of reading to do, and
I can go ahead-- I'm gonna go ahead and cast--

Make sure everybody's in! Everybody's in.

LAURA: Wait, wait! I want to check the bodies of
the other guys before the--

SAM: What are you casting? What are you about to
cast?

MATT: Duergar?

LAURA: Yeah.

MARISHA: Anti-Life Shell?

MATT: Go ahead and make an investigative check.

MARISHA: A shell that keeps in anything from
coming in.

SAM: Oh. Great. Well, before you do that, hold
on.

LAURA: A 20?

MATT: Okay. Glancing about, you pull roughly 125
gold pieces between the three corpses of the

duergar. Well, two corpses because one of them is
gone. It washed downstream.

LAURA: Right.

LIAM: She had all the good things.

LAURA: She had a lot of good stuff on her.

MATT: Yeah. You do, however, find on one of them a
gnarled implement of some kind, whether it be

scavenged or not. It's of a strange, like almost
bleached bone ivory

that comes to a point at one end.

ORION: Ooh.

SAM: Let's look at it. (laughs)

MATT: It is pretty.

LAURA: Ooh, let me see, let me see.

ORION: An artifact we can bring back to--

SAM: Can I take a look at it and--

LIAM: Give it to Tiberius. He'll try anything.

MARISHA: (laughs) He'll try anything.

SAM: History or-- or arcane?

ORION: I like trying things.

MATT: Go ahead and roll arcana.

SAM: Arcana. No! (laughs)

MARISHA: (laughs) Oh, Scanlan.

MATT: Scanlan, it is a very pretty something.

ORION: 24.

MATT: 24. Want to hand it over to him?

ORION: Yes, I--

SAM: Ooh!

LAURA: What is it?

SAM: Nothing.

ORION: Wonderful, this is. Wonderful. Magic
Missiles, of course.

MARISHA: (laughs)

SAM: It sends out magic missiles!

LAURA: What!

ORION: This one has seven charges. While holding
it, you, you can use an action to expend one or

more of its charges to cast the Magic Missile
spell from it. For one charge, you cast the

first-level version of the spell. You can increase
the spell slot by one for each level by each

additional charge you expend. The wand regains 1d6
+ 1 expended charges daily at dawn. If you expend

the wand's last charge, roll a d20. On a one, the
wand crumples into ashes and then--

LIAM: This all seems very technical.

LAURA: Yes, that's awesome--

SAM: Basically it shoots out six missiles and then
it--

LAURA: Awesome!

TRAVIS: Isn't that a famous, like--

MARISHA: It goes pew pew!

LAURA: I'm glad we killed them before they used
that on us.

LIAM: Yes, it's pretty standard.

TALIESIN: It's a pew pew stick.

LIAM: Pretty standard.

MARISHA: It's a pew pew stick!

LIAM: Yes.

MARISHA: Cool!

ORION: Would anybody like to tinker? I mean, I
learned this when I was 12.

(all laugh)

LAURA: No, you're unconscious.

ORION: Oh, I'll hold onto it--

LAURA: Well, yeah. Yeah.

LIAM: I think Grog may have soiled himself a
little.

We should probably get Keyleth on the books.

LAURA: Take a nap so that, maybe--

TALIESIN: Yes.

MARISHA: Make sure everyone's in and close by, and
get done with everything.

LAURA: Okay, she's gonna--

LIAM: Keyleth, you need to study, so we'll take
first watch.

MARISHA: I'm gonna take you guys--

LAURA: Oh, that's true, you should study while we
watch.

LIAM: You can't study and watch.

MARISHA: I'm gonna cast Anti-Life Shell. That way
everyone at least gets one good hour of sleep.

LAURA: Oh, good! I like it!

LIAM: All right, let's take a nap.

LAURA: All right.

MATT: You go ahead and you eventually find one of the
corpses of the umber hulk. It takes you a good 25

minutes to eventually carve through its relatively
thick hide, chitinous exterior. You put the head

on a makeshift spike, and it is now there on
display.

SAM: Yes, as a warning to others.

MATT: You feel accomplished.

SAM: Yes.

MATT: You head back. Keyleth--

TALIESIN: Terrible taxidermy attempt.

MATT: -- as you are taking first watch, you notice
that the campsite that the duergar were using,

where you guys are currently resting for the
evening, it's been there for a while and it

looks like the duergar have repurposed it. The
fire-- the stones that were set up around the

actual fire pit have probably been there for quite
some time, and were set up very uniformly and very

well placed. Right above you, on one of the stone
walls, you see what appears to be a strange, very

well carved symbol. Hard to recognize it. Go ahead
and make a religion check.

LAURA: Oh, man.

MARISHA: Ugh, wish Pike were here.

LIAM: Yes, we wish Pike was here.

LAURA: Pike's missing everything! (sobs)

TALIESIN: Very much.

ORION: Yes. We miss you!

MARISHA: Eight?

LIAM: Come back, little gnome!

MATT: It's just a really interesting carving on
the wall just

right above where you guys are 
currently residing--

TALIESIN: Ampersand.

MARISHA: So pretty!

MATT: Not quite catching your attention, but it
seems to have some significance. And it's fresh,

it's not like an ancient symbol that's been there,
it maybe could have

been there for more than a week or two.

MARISHA: I go ahead and I take a piece of paper
from my spellbook,

and I take a piece of charcoal, and I just scroll 
over top of it.

MATT: Okay.

MARISHA: To get an imprint of it.

MATT: Okay, it's very big. It's like four feet by
three feet.

MARISHA: I take a few pieces of paper, and I kind
of glue them together-

(all laugh)

MATT: All right.

MARISHA: -- and then I get a really big one, and
then I roll it up.

MATT: All right. All right, you guys begin to set
up for the next watch. After the first hour--

MARISHA: And I have my Anti-Life Shell up.

MATT: Yep, Anti-Life Shell eventually fades, first
hour without any impact or issue.

MARISHA: Who is taking the next watch?

LAURA: Oh, we are.

LIAM: Yeah.

MATT: Okay. The next few hours go by without
incident.

LAURA: That's nice. Can I look around and see-- I
mean, no! In our area! I'm not gonna wander off,

but just to see if I see any kind of anything
interesting. I mean, if this is a really old area

that I've noticed, it's old, can I see anything
cool and old around us?

MATT: Well, there's a lot of mineral deposits.
This place in particular, it's definitely, because

of the heavy river flow for a long time, a lot of
the area near the river itself, very smooth stone.

A lot of kind of accumulated deposits of various
elements.

You also catch the strange carved symbol right 
atop your guys' camp.

LAURA: Okay. So I tap my brother and go, look at
this. Do you know anything about religion?

LIAM: (sighs) Well, let me see.

LAURA: Let me see.

(all laugh)

LIAM: Well, I seem to know fuck-all about it.
Ten.

LAURA: Oh, me too! I know shit about it.

MATT: It's a very fancy symbol.

LAURA: It's a really pretty symbol.

MATT: You guys finish your watch--

LIAM: I really wish Pike was here.

MARISHA: Just, the party is taking turns being
like, so pretty!

LAURA: I know!

SAM: Where was that symbol?

LAURA: On a rock.

MARISHA: It's above our--

MATT: It's on one of the large cave surfaces near
where you guys are camping.

LAURA: I don't see any cool sparkly things in the
mineral deposits? None of that?

MATT: Nothing catches your attention--

LAURA: Damn it!

MATT: --- at the moment, no, unfortunately.

LIAM: All about the bling.

LAURA: I am about the bling.

MARISHA: How's it going over there, Grog?

MATT: You finish your watch without issue.

MARISHA: It's good.

MATT: Next up watch, this is the last, third, and
final watch you guys are now going through.

ORION: Oh, all right.

SAM: I'll come with Tiberius as well.

MATT: Okay.

TALIESIN: Yeah, we'll all go.

SAM: Okay.

MATT: Okay. The three of you guys keep watch.
After they're napping. Occasionally you have to

adjust Grog, 'cause you're not sure if he's still
breathing.

ORION: I'll roll for the--

TRAVIS: What?

SAM: Not sure if he's still breathing?

ORION: I'm gonna do an intelligence, right?

MATT: To make sure he's still--

LAURA: What?

MARISHA: Religion. Religion.

MATT: Religion.

ORION: 20.

LAURA: Oh my god, what if you could die while
we're sleeping?

MATT: Right now, you just rolled?

ORION: Well, 18 plus two.

MATT: Oh, okay.

ORION: What's that?

MATT: You are familiar with this symbol
specifically because of your background. That is

the symbol of Bahamut. It is the symbol of the
Platinum Dragon.

LAURA: Ooh!

MATT: And you ascertain it was probably--

ORION: Oh, it looks like this!

MATT: Yes.

ORION: Oh, interesting.

MATT: And it was probably used as part of some
sort of a protection ritual.

LAURA: What was the name of the bad guy that she
said?

MATT: K'varn.

ORION: I tell everybody that. Well, that I'm
with.

LAURA: Thank you.

MATT: Using the thing you wrote.

LAURA: K'varn.

MATT: K'varn.

LAURA: I'm gonna guess that's how you spell it.

ORION: It seems it's a protective symbol of sorts,
but it's of Bahamut, which is a good thing.

LAURA: K'vah? I thought it was K'varn.

SAM: It's a good thing?

ORION: Bahamut is the essentially nicer deity of
the two between him

and Tiamat, which is a total asshole, but--

SAM: Well that must be why Lady Kima came down
here.

ORION: Right. So she must have camped here, put
this symbol up for protection.

MATT: As you are having this discussion, you feel
a slight rumble in the ground.

TRAVIS: Fucked up now.

MARISHA: Oh no.

MATT: Some of the rocks nearby, the loose pebbles,
begin to vibrate and move around.

ORION: Oh dear.

SAM: Grog's probably farting again.

ORION: No, I don't think-- I think we should alert
the others.

SAM: All right.

LAURA: We're waking up, we're waking up. Don't
worry, we are gonna heal you.

ORION: How far are we from everybody? We're just
like--

MATT: You guys are all clustered in the small
camp.

ORION: Oh.

SAM: Let's quietly wake them, and I will go peer
into the darkness and see if I can see them.

ORION: Rumbling is never a good thing, Scanlan.

LAURA: Something's rumbling? I wasn't paying
attention.

MATT: Do you still have your light source up,
Light, or you just, the campfire?

ORION: Just the campfire.

MATT: Yeah, you are-- outside of just, maybe 15,
20 feet, you see nothing. It's pitch black.

TALIESIN: Let's wake everybody up, and then we'll
get to work--

LAURA: On healing Grog?

TALIESIN: -- on Grog, and go see what that is.

LAURA: I'm not awake yet.

TALIESIN: Is all this going at the same time?

SAM: Is the rumbling continuous, or is it just one
little rumble?

MATT: A few moments pass, the rumbling has
subsided.

SAM: Oh, okay.

ORION: Oh, it stopped.

SAM: Oh, easy!

LAURA: So we're awake.

MARISHA: Okay, but let's--

LAURA: Let's heal this guy. Can you heal him?

MARISHA: Am I awake? Are we awake? Did you wake me
up?

LAURA: Are we awake?

ORION: I do Prestidigitation and wake everybody
up--

LAURA: (grunts) Awake.

ORION: -- with a little spritz of water in the
face.

MATT: Okay, all wake up--

ORION: Everybody get up!

SAM: Like the flower, the flower trick?

MARISHA: Why water? Why would you do that?

ORION: Yeah.

MARISHA: Why couldn't you just touch me?

TALIESIN: Magic bukkake.

ORION: Because it's--

LAURA: Ah, that was a good nap!

LIAM: Stupid lizard.

MARISHA: Ugh.

LAURA: I think Grog farted again.

ORION: I do it again, and clean everybody up.

MARISHA: Stop!

ORION: Sorry. sorry! It's off. I--

SAM: Something terrible is brewing.

LAURA: Keyleth-- no, what?

SAM: How is everyone feeling? Do we need to heal?
Everyone?

LAURA: We need to heal this guy.

SAM: No, what about us? How are we feeling?

LIAM: Well, we all just slept, so we're fine.

LAURA: We're fine! Heal this guy!

MARISHA: I'm okay.

SAM: Are we okay?

MATT: You've all slept for the evening--

ORION: Oh, awesome.

MATT: --and from the points of your unused--

LAURA: Grog, just wait a little bit longer.

MATT: -- healing dice, you're pretty much all at
max health, so.

LAURA: You'll be okay.

MARISHA: Okay, do we wanna stay here? Do we wanna
do this here?

LAURA: Yeah! Do it here!

TALIESIN: Do this here.

ORION: There was a rumble. Okay, we need to get
Grog, the others, and--

LAURA: How long will this take, Keyleth?

MARISHA: Tiberius-- I don't know. But I want us to
be as safe as we can. Tiberius, can you lift us up

on your pillars, or like, encase us in, or
something? Make us a room?

ORION: I was just about to do that!

MARISHA: Make us a room?

ORION: Yes!

MARISHA: Yes? Okay.

ORION: But everybody hates when I do that.

SAM: Are you gonna cast a spell now?

MARISHA: We're gonna do this.

SAM: Okay, I'd like to give her a little
inspirational song.

MARISHA: Yes, if you could.

MATT: All right.

MARISHA: Scanlan, give me some nice meditation,
some--

SAM: Okay, some, like, yoga music?

MARISHA: Some, like, pure moods. Yes! Yes.

LAURA: Trinket gives her a massage beforehand to
loosen her up.

MARISHA: I go ahead--

SAM: (sings) You know you got to cure Grog.

MARISHA: I go ahead and light some incense.

ORION: Wonderful tune.

MARISHA: Scanlan. Scanlan, do you still have that
deity, that little idol of Pike?

SAM: I do have my idol of Pike, yes!

MARISHA: Can we just have that out just so I have
her energy.

SAM: Oh, of course!

MARISHA: Just feel like I need her.

SAM: I take out the idol of Pike that I keep
always close to my loins,

and I hold it tightly, and warmly--

MARISHA: Okay.

SAM: -- and caress it a little.

ORION: Give it to her.

MATT: It is momentarily distracting, but
eventually you phase it out.

All right, so as you guys--

(all laugh)

ORION: Did you want my hand or the statue?

MATT: You take a bit of earth from a pouch that
you keep of your--

ORION: Statue.

MATT: -- home tribe where you grew up. You
scattered some of it around Grog, who is now laid

on his back, whose arms and legs, all equally
stretched out.

TRAVIS: Naked.

MATT: No. You're still clothed.

(all laugh)

MARISHA: Let's not go there. No need to be naked.

LAURA: There's coffee next to you.

MATT: As this is the first time you've attempted a
magic of this type, you close your eyes and take

in the earth's essence. As a druid, being
connected to nature is

where you draw your divine energy. You kind of--

MARISHA: I'm so nervous.

MATT: -- almost take from the vibration of the
nearby caverns that you felt, and come in tune

with the way the earth, the planet itself shifts
and moves, you--

LIAM: You got this, Keyleth! You got this!

LAURA: You can do this Keyleth! You can do this!

MARISHA: I'm literally shaking.

MATT: You use that to give constitutional strength
to the physical form

of Grog in hopes of restoring him.

MARISHA: Okay, I just kind of lay my hands on his
forehead.

LAURA: Oh my gosh!

SAM: You know, I know Grog very well, and he might
enjoy, or be inspired by, a kiss of a female. I'm

just saying, just the gentle kiss of a female lips
on his might rouse him.

ORION: Ooh, Vex!

SAM: I've seen it many times.

ORION: You should plant one on him.

SAM: Vex? Get in there! Get in there!

(all laugh)

MATT: As Vex awkwardly fumbles over the--

LAURA: I think it helped.

MATT: -- the overtly sized goliath-

LAURA: Stop it.

TRAVIS: Not all dead.

MATT: Go ahead and--

LIAM: Just upstairs.

MARISHA: Do I get an inspiration die from him or
anything?

MATT: You do, yes.

MARISHA: Okay. What am I rolling? What do I do?

MATT: Roll a d20, add your wisdom modifier.

LAURA: Do I get to assist since I gave him a
kiss?

MATT: No assistance on this. This only affects a
d20 roll.

SAM: d20.

LAURA: Oh god.

TALIESIN: It's a wisdom modifier.

SAM: Let's do this, man.

LIAM: Save Grog!

LAURA: Save Grog. Save Grog!

SAM: For the chat room.

MARISHA: Gah. Nauseous. No.

MATT: What'd you roll? What'd you roll?

LAURA: No!

MARISHA: Where's the inspiration die? Where's the
inspiration die?

ORION: Didn't you get advantage on that?

MARISHA: It's a d8, right?

MATT: It's a d8.

MARISHA: Do I get advantage on this, since I'm
taking time?

LAURA: Yes!

MATT: As is, yes, yeah, you have advantage on the
roll, yeah!

MARISHA: I do have advantage on this?

LAURA: Come on, Keyleth! Keyleth, Keyleth,
Keyleth!

ORION: Yeah!

MARISHA: Oh, that's much better!

LAURA: What? What was it?

MARISHA: I'm still gonna do the inspiration dice,
just in casies. Okay, that's good.

TALIESIN: That's good.

MARISHA: Okay, so.

MATT: What's the total?

MARISHA: 17 plus 12.

MATT: Plus 12?

MARISHA: Plus six, plus six with my wisdom
modifier. My heart is pounding.

So that's 30? No, 29.

MATT: 29, that should be enough.

TALIESIN: Oh my god.

MATT: So, (laughs), in this circumstance, you
complete the ritual.

There's a brief glow of all the--

MARISHA: Ah, I'm still shaking.

MATT: The dirt that you'd scattered around Grog,
and you can see his form kind of take in a deeper

breath. His chest expands, and as it does, his
eyes, which currently stare off in space, begin to

clarify and crystallize and his brow quivers for a
second,

and you see a little bit of life return to his face.

TRAVIS: Ugh. Kittens. Ugh. Nachos. Ugh.

SAM: (laughs)

MARISHA: Grog?

MATT: Grog, your sight focuses as the party is
gathered around you, looking down upon your

currently stretched out physical form in a cavern.
You're very confused.

LIAM: Welcome back, big guy.

TRAVIS: I thought I was in algebra class again for
a second there.

(all laugh)

MARISHA: Grog!

SAM: You're alive!

ORION: Why are you all cheering?

LAURA: Good job, Keyleth!

ORION: Why did you run out and destroy nothing?
Look what you did. You were giving me crap about

the lightning. Don't ever do that again.

TRAVIS: Sorry, who woke me up from my sleep?

(electronic beep)

LAURA: Oh, Siri did, apparently.

ORION: It was a group effort really, but Keyleth
did an amazing job.

TRAVIS: Keyleth? I run over and I give Keyleth a
big ol' bear hug,

squeezing maybe a bit too tight.

MARISHA: Ow.

LAURA: I think he shit himself while he was
unconscious,

so that's gotta smell really wonderful.

TRAVIS: I smell better than I ever have before.

MARISHA: Just glad you're all right, Grog. Really
glad you're awake.

TRAVIS: I reach into the bag of holding and I get
the cask of ale and my goblet,

and I pour a little goblet of ale and I give it 
to Keyleth.

MARISHA: To Grog!

ALL: To Grog!

TRAVIS: To me!

(all laugh)

MATT: As a note too, just so you guys are aware,
20 is the stat cap for normal physical stats,

however magical items can then bump that up
higher. Just answering a chat room question.

LAURA: Right.

SAM: I don't even know what that means. Question
or the answer.

MATT: That's okay. Don't worry about it.

SAM: Hey. How is he doing, how is he feeling?

TRAVIS: I'm so glad you had advantage on that.

SAM: Grog, how are you feeling?

ORION: Yes!

SAM: How is he feeling?

TRAVIS: My intelligence is--

What is it now?

MATT: It's back to normal.

MARISHA: At like the gym and you need some
alcohol, after that.

TRAVIS: It's six, so--

SAM: Right where it should be.

TRAVIS: I feel right as rain. What are we
killing?

(all laugh)

LIAM: Brains, apparently.

SAM: How many fingers is this?

TRAVIS: Three.

SAM: Perfect.

MARISHA: Good, he's back, you guys. He's back.

TRAVIS: Blue, oh no, hold on.

MARISHA: Good.

TRAVIS: Square!

ORION: I saunter over to Keyleth. That was mighty
impressive.

MARISHA: Oh, thank you.

ORION: That was amazing.

MARISHA: I had Pike in mind. I channeled her
energy.

SAM: It's true, it was quite astounding. I have a
little chub on.

LAURA: (groans)

TRAVIS: (laughs)

So do I, for some reason.

LAURA: You're welcome.

MARISHA: Yeah well, that's a bit of a side
effect.

TRAVIS: It must be the morning.

MARISHA: That's part of the Greater Restoration, a
few things get restored.

MATT: (laughs)

TRAVIS: God bless you.

LIAM: Do you remember anything about a kiss in
your dreams while you were asleep?

TRAVIS: Well, my cheeks are sort of sore for some
reason, as if they've been slapped repeatedly by a

bunch of twats, and then I've got this one little
wet mark right here

where I got a kiss and it smells like 
half-elvish spit.

LIAM: Oh, that was Trinket. Trinket helped with
the spell.

Gave you a kiss and helped wake you up.

LAURA: Oh, why didn't I have Trinket--

TALIESIN: And several slaps.

MATT: At which point you look over and Trinket is
there off to the side,

notably excited that you're moving again. 
(bear noises)

LAURA: Aw.

MATT: Comes over and nuzzles up against you for a
moment.

TRAVIS: Oh Trinket, you big ol' furball. 
Trinket noogie.

LAURA: (laughs)

TRAVIS: Can we go kill something now?

LAURA: Well shit, I guess we should. I think we
are all healed up.

MATT: You guys all healed overnight.

LAURA: Did he heal while he was unconscious?

MATT: You did not get an opportunity to use any of
your stuff, so you're currently still at the hit

points you were, plus you naturally healed just
from the evening's rest.

TRAVIS: Oh, I did?

MATT: Four hit points.

SAM: Let's do some Grog healing. You don't have
your healing dice, right?

TRAVIS: I do.

SAM: I'm gonna sing a song of rest for you, so
that'll add 1d6 to your healing rolls.

TRAVIS: Yes! 11 plus-- All right. 12. Great.

LAURA: How many d12s do you get to roll? You can
roll four of them if you need to.

TRAVIS: (counts)

MATT: You can roll up to nine.

LAURA: You can roll up to nine dice.

TRAVIS: Oh!

MATT: Whatever your level is, that's how many dice
you can use.

TRAVIS: Nipple tassels! That's way better.

(all laugh)

MATT: But that's for the day. Once you've used those
nine hit dice to heal yourself naturally, you are

maxed out outside of magical healing or potions.

TRAVIS: I've used two.

SAM: Shall we tarry on, everyone?

LIAM: Yes, I have a feeling these tunnels are
going to suck majorly,

but we have nowhere to go but down, so--

LAURA: So we know which tunnel she pointed
towards?

MATT: She pointed towards the rest of the cavern,
which you have just stepped into.

LAURA: Can I use tracking and see if I can not
only see where the majority of tracks lead to, but

see if I can spot the halfling Kima's tracks.

MATT: Lady Kima. Go ahead and make a survival
check.

LAURA: Survival?

MATT: Which you have advantage on simply for
tracking depending on what you're tracking.

LAURA: I do!

MATT: What are your favored enemies?

LAURA: My favored enemies are dragons and demons.

MATT: So you would not have advantage on this.

LAURA: Ah, screw that

MATT: That's okay. What did you roll?

LAURA: Oh, but I do. Wait. My favored terrain is
the Underdark.

MATT: Okay. All right. For that, I will go ahead
and give you advantage on that. This is

technically considered the crust of the Underdark.

LAURA: That doesn't count if it rolls
onto a phone?

LIAM: I think that's in this book.

MATT: Yeah, yeah, I think it's chapter four.

LAURA: 19 is what I rolled.

MATT: 19. Okay. As you guys begin to move, you can
find, like, there is this waterfall. Which you can

hear in the distance, there are a number of
cascading, crashing water sounds. So you imagine

there are multiple layers as this cavern descends
down into the darkness.

What are you using for a light source, by the way?

LIAM: Tiberius, yeah?

SAM: Tiberius, hit us.

ORION: What's happening?

SAM: Light

TRAVIS: Oh, ah.

(all laugh)

MATT: The cavern comes alive with bright white
light.

TRAVIS: Oh, right. Sunglasses.

MATT: Using that, you take a while and you begin
to just keep tabs on the surface area of this

cavern as you begin to move further down. You find
some portions where you can climb down to the lower

levels. The first thing you notice is there are
definitive signs of struggle or intense running

towards the direction that you came from. Meaning
things were seemingly either fleeing or heading

that direction very quickly. Some of them appear
to be more recent than others. You also begin to

see a few partially decomposed corpses of various
goblinoid creatures. You find two goblins just

slain, just cut open, and off to the side you see
some of the skin is pulled tight against the bone

as a lot of it is just rotting from the cave
itself. Not a very great smell. There have been

small pockets of struggle the more you progress
down this way. You also find some drag marks that

are similar to what you saw back in the mines, and
as you move forward and the light begins to open

up, you can see small pockets of that red stone
that's used to light a bunch of Kraghammer. You

can start seeing elements of it embedded in the
walls of the cavern ahead and just faintly giving

this reddish glow and the outline of some shapes.
You begin to step into the outskirts about 60 feet

ahead of what looks like a series of huts, small
stone structures cobbled together with small stone

and stacked on each other. Simple driftwood and
broken pieces of scavenged material put into small

buildings. It's a very kinda ramshackle village
underground.

SAM: Let's burn it down.

LIAM: I am stealthing. I roll stealth.

LAURA: Oh, okay, I'm gonna stealth too.

LIAM: Natural 20.

MARISHA: Woohoo!

LAURA: Natural 20. Oh, that really didn't count.

LIAM: Just roll on your phone a couple times and
then off to the side.

LAURA: They all sucked, so.

LIAM: And you said that the red crystals on the
wall are glowing somewhat?

MATT: Yeah, it's a certain amount of crystal that
this mountain range

seems to naturally produce that just inherently.

LIAM: Enough to give the half-elves vision in low
light?

MATT: It seems such. At the point where you're
close to it. Currently you have to use his light

source to see much of anything. This village
doesn't have any, but near the walls and the edges

of the cavern you can see the gentle outline of
this whole size of it. It's immense.

TALIESIN: Does it seem that there are signs of
life?

MATT: From this view, you don't see any movement.

LIAM: I am starting to creep along the ground
towards the nearest building and press up against

the wall and see if I can-- I'm just going to
listen.

LAURA: I rolled a 16, is that enough to actually
stealth?

MATT: That's up to you.

LAURA: No.

MARISHA: I'm going to let the twins stealth
ahead.

MATT: You guys stealth ahead. The two of you
follow each other, and you get to the outskirts,

and you can now see in the center of this, a
number of the buildings and huts have been smashed

or destroyed. You can see more and more of these
goblin corpses strewn across the ground. You can

see some of these tents seem to have rags or
something stuffed into one that's not too far

ahead of you. There's two goblins near you,
apparently slashed open. Similar wounds. It's just

from the first glance stepping forward.

LIAM: None of them alive, that we can tell?

MATT: Nope.

LAURA: We can't see any movement anywhere?

MATT: Not from this perspective. You guys moved
ahead and you barely have any light source of your

own. You're having to deal with just the outskirts
of his light spell.

LAURA: And none of that red light is lighting any
of this?

MATT: Not in the center of the village. Those are
only towards the outside walls of the cavern.

LIAM: So we're in the dark.

LAURA: Can I go up and see if I can get one of
those little red rocks?

MATT: You can walk off to the side. So you take a
few minutes to walk off to the very edge of the

cavern. The rock is less of an actual stone that
you can pull, more than it's a cluster of-- almost

like a vein of the stone in the actual wall. It
would take a while for you to actually hack it out

of the side. It can be done, but it will take you
a while.

LAURA: Nah. I don't want to waste the time.

MATT: Okay.

LAURA: What do you think, should I do it?

LIAM: No.

LAURA: Okay, cool.

TRAVIS: (laughs) No.

LIAM: But we're in pitch black here, and we can't
really see what's going on. I think we need--

LAURA: A lantern.

LIAM: And Tiberius.

LAURA: (whispers) Tiberius.

LIAM: Wait, hold on. Tiberius, will you bring the
party up?

ORION: Oh yes, of course, we'll be right there.

LAURA: Does anybody know-- have we told anybody at
home what that actually is?

MATT: Okay, so as you guys are aware, one of the
magical items that was designed by Tiberius early

in the campaign are essentially these gem
enchanted earrings that activate as a Message

spell between a few party members. He made a few
of them.

LIAM: It was five total. Why don't we nail down
who that is. It's the twins.

LAURA: We both have one.

LIAM: You.

ORION: You have one. He has one. She has one.

LIAM: He's pretty sneaky. All right.

SAM: And we can send and receive messages or just
receive?

MATT: You're essentially whispering into each
other's ears.

ORION: They're like walkie-talkies.

LAURA: It's like a walkie-talkie.

MATT: But it only works within a certain range.

SAM: Is it like a Madonna microphone?

MATT: A straight up with a big ol'--

ORION: I think it's like 500 feet.

MATT: 500 feet is the maximum length. So. You guys
approach slowly, the light source opens up, and

you see now a multitude of goblin bodies strewn
about the open area of this village. You can see

there are actually piles of corpses stuffed into
some of these huts in the sides that aren't

goblin. You can see what looks like a few small
dwarven bodies piled up on the side. As you kinda

glance over you look, some of them are partially
eaten like they have been stripped for meat.

LAURA: Ew.

TRAVIS: What?

MATT: Make an investigation check.

LAURA: 24.

LIAM: 22.

MATT: Okay.

LIAM: Check that building?

MATT: As you look through the building, there are
piles of bone, sinew, and metal at this point. The

dwarven bodies are mostly decomposed entirely,
what remnants

have not been stripped off it for food.

LIAM: Anything useful in the pile?

MATT: As far as what you guys can tell, you
discover two things. One of the dwarves has a set

of very very finely crafted leather armor.

LAURA: Ooh.

MATT: To pull it off the corpse is going to
destroy it and

going to be a not very interesting affair.

LAURA: Oh.

MATT: But it does look to have survived the
horrible conditions under here. You also note

specifically, Vex, that not the dwarven corpses,
but a number of the goblin corpses you come

across, some of them have a uniform wound. A
number of these goblin corpses

have this terrible puncture wound in the skull.

LAURA: Oh no.

MATT: In the forehead there. Just an opening wound
about that big around.

LAURA: You didn't notice that, that's how
unperceptive you are.

LIAM: My sister, everybody.

MATT: And for each one of these wounds-- for as
much flesh is on these goblins,

there doesn't appear to be anything inside.

LAURA: It sucked their brains out. Whatever it
was.

MATT: It's very possible.

TRAVIS: I know what that feels like.

ORION: Ooh, brain suckers.

TRAVIS: Are we with you?

LAURA: No, you're not, you're still hanging out--

SAM: We've come back.

TRAVIS: Did you put your finger in the hole?

LAURA: I'm going to put my finger in the hole.

ORION: I sauntered up 'cause--

SAM: You sauntered up.

ORION: You guys are sticking to the darkness?

MATT: Your finger goes inside, you reach around.
There are elements of brain matter within there

but even that has become very gelatinous.

TRAVIS: Oatmeal.

MATT: Partially decomposed in its own right,
almost like a slime. But sure enough, the inside

of the cranium itself is mostly vacant.

LAURA: Lovely. Trinket, no, he's not with us.

MATT: Trinket is back with the party.

MARISHA: So we can only assume that, what was his
name?

SAM: Should we rejoin our fellows?

TRAVIS: Yeah.

LAURA: I guess it seems like it's safe enough,
right? Around here right now?

TRAVIS: We come running up.

ORION: We do.

SAM: Traipsing, we traipse up.

TRAVIS: Skipping.

LAURA: As silently as possible, you come running
up.

TRAVIS: (sings)

SAM: What's going on, guys?

LAURA: Brain suckers, something that sucks
brains.

SAM: As long as they are sucking it out of
goblins, I'm good with that.

LIAM: My sister doesn't remember, but one of our
instructors in Syngorn used to tell us of a

creature, I'm not sure what they're called, but--

LAURA: I don't think I was in that class,
actually.

LIAM: Mm. A creature that steals its victims'
minds and digests them,

reaches right in and takes them out.

ORION: I'm assuming it's got to be a much smaller,
mutated version of our brain-on-legs friend.

LIAM: I think it's much worse.

MARISHA: Yeah. Much worse.

LAURA: Much worse?

LIAM: Much worse.

ORION: Yeah.

LIAM: I think the brain was a scout or some sort
of pet.

MARISHA: Well, we also have this K'varn, who is
experimenting on all those creatures,

so we can't even attest for any of this.

LAURA: Exactly.

ORION: That's true.

TRAVIS: I take a few steps back.

TALIESIN: It could just be parts of one.

MARISHA: Yeah, parts of one. It could be a
hodge-podge of everything

TALIESIN: A dragon, goblin drained, brained--

LAURA: (gasps) What if K'varn is a dragon? What
if-- oh wait, I don't know anything about that.

What was that symbol anyway, Tiberius?

ORION: That was a symbol of Bahamut, and it was a
protection thing

that I'm sure she put up to protect herself.

LAURA: Oh. So it was a good symbol?

ORION: It was, yes.

LAURA: Okay.

MATT: You recall that Lady Kima was, specifically,
a paladin of Bahamut.

LAURA: Oh! So she probably did that.

MARISHA: So she's been here.

MATT: That camp seems to have been hers while she
was traipsing through the tunnels.

LAURA: I understand.

TALIESIN: Ah!

LIAM: I just think we should proceed with caution.
Our teachers spoke about this thing, said that it

was a being of the mind. I think our trouble with
Grog could just be the beginning. We need to

proceed very carefully.

LAURA: Oh no!

TRAVIS: I have two potions of fox's cunning. Could
I drink one of those, since there's a giant

brain-bitch wondering around the camp?

MARISHA: That's for your wisdom.

SAM: How long do they last?

LAURA: You could make yourself smarter?

TRAVIS: But it don't last very long.

MATT: Fox's cunning would give you benefit, I
believe, to--

MARISHA: Intelligence.

MATT: I mean, essentially--

MARISHA: It would be Enhance Ability, essentially.

MATT: It would be Enhance Ability for wisdom, I'm
pretty sure.

MARISHA: I'll tell you. I think it's wisdom.

TRAVIS: Not intelligence?

MARISHA: No, no, no, it's intelligence.

MATT: It's intelligence? Okay, there you go.

MARISHA: Because I think it's like owl's wisdom
for wisdom.

MATT: Right, no, you're correct. So essentially it
would be an

Enhance Ability for intelligence, yes.

LAURA: How long does it last?

MATT: Oh, for the potion's effect? That would be
anywhere from four to eight hours,

you're not quite sure.

LAURA: Maybe you should wait until we come across
something.

TRAVIS: All right, but if it's too late--

MARISHA: Yeah, you have advantage on intelligence
checks.

TRAVIS: Intelligence checks? All right.

LIAM: Just don't go running off into the dark
again.

LAURA: Yeah, let us lead the way, or whoever's
smart. I'm really smart, how smart are you?

LIAM: Not smart enough, apparently.

MARISHA: So it wouldn't necessarily--

TRAVIS: It wouldn't make my intelligence higher?

MARISHA: It wouldn't make your intelligence
higher,

and it wouldn't necessarily help with your 
vulnerability.

TRAVIS: All right, never mind.

LIAM: He's smart.

LAURA: Who's our smartest person? Who has the
highest intelligence here?

LIAM: What are these scores you keep talking
about? I don't know what anybody's talking about.

ORION: It's okay, Vax. I don't know what a lot of
people are talking about all of the time.

TALIESIN: IRL?

TRAVIS: Yeah, whoever's the smartest should be in
the front.

LAURA: That's true.

TALIESIN: I'm sitting at 16.

TRAVIS: 14.

LIAM: 16.

LAURA: 16.

MARISHA: Well it's about, like, having high-- it's
not necessarily being smart,

it's about having resistance to willpower.

LAURA: But if they take you down-- if they take
down your intelligence,

then whoever has higher intelligence--

MARISHA: Right.

SAM: No one's going to take down our intelligence,
we're too strong and we're too awesome.

LAURA: I don't want another catatonic-- all
right.

ORION: And we know what we're going into.

LAURA: All right!

MARISHA: Well, we sort of know what we're going
into.

TRAVIS: Does that mean we get to run into a
fight?

LAURA: Oh no, this music sounds very fighty.

MARISHA: Hang on.

SAM: Or festive.

LAURA: Oh no!

MARISHA: Okay, so here's my question.

LIAM: Yeah.

MARISHA: So we've already fought two things where
we can't look at them

and they mess with our heads.

TRAVIS: Right.

LAURA: Yes.

MARISHA: So is there something we can do going
forward--

LAURA: To like boost our willpower or something?

MARISHA: Or like--

TALIESIN: You want Magneto's helmet? What you want
is Magneto's helmet.

MARISHA: I like Magneto's helmet! Or even if we--

TALIESIN: I haven't built Magneto's helmet.

MARISHA: Do we have a bunch of mirrors? Or where
we can look through things with reflections.

LAURA: (gasps) I gave you some mirrors! Do you
remember?

LIAM: I have mirrors.

TRAVIS: We do have a big dressing mirror.

LIAM: But that's more for--

LAURA: For looking around corners?

LIAM: I don't know if that's going to help.

LAURA: It could help!

ORION: I could make a mirror.

LIAM: Yes, I have them, of course. I always, I
always have them, they were a gift.

TRAVIS: We have one mirror in the bag of holding.

LAURA: That's good!

ORION: With like an ice-type of thing--

LAURA: We could put a mirror--

MARISHA: Kind of like a Medusa's gaze thing. You
know, where you like look in the reflection.

LIAM: But that's a Gorgon. That's talking about
the gaze--

MARISHA: Right.

LIAM: We're talking about the mind, I think.

LAURA: Right.

MARISHA: Yeah.

SAM: I have a whip! And a forgery kit.

(all laugh)

MARISHA: It would just be about making us less
vulnerable to the mind--

LIAM: Could you forge some professor hats for us
all?

(all laugh)

LAURA: So what, our option is to keep moving
forward, then?

SAM: Yes, just be cautious, that's all we can do.

VAX and TALIESIN: That's all we can do.

LAURA: All right.

TRAVIS: We move forward.

SAM: What do you want to do, you want go back?

LAURA: As quietly as possible, to keep moving
forward.

TALIESIN: It's difficult to prepare for what we're
not prepared for.

LAURA: And on the lookout for anything in this
ramshackle town.

MARISHA: That's true.

TALIESIN: Sorry.

MARISHA: I mean, I can cast Enhance Ability to
help our willpower? Or our will.

MATT: So you leave behind the pile of dwarven
corpses, you leave behind the goblin corpses with

the wounds and start seeing more of a pattern.

LIAM: And if I may, I suggest Tiberius, you work
your Light spell, and Vex'ahlia and I scout ahead

about 60 or 70 feet, so that we can see in the dim
light, catch anything coming, using your magic.

LAURA: Yes.

TRAVIS: And I light up the hooded lantern we have
in the bag of holding.

MATT: Okay. So you put the hood on and light that
up, very good. Leaving the leather armor behind?

LAURA: Oh well, I thought you said it would get
ruined if we took it?

LIAM: And it was dwarf-sized.

MATT: No, it would be nasty pulling it off a
corpse.

LAURA: Oh, well then, fuck it, let's pull it off.

LIAM: Isn't it dwarf-sized? Or is armor also
shrink and expand?

LAURA: It's magical. Possibly.

MATT: It's dwarf-sized.

LIAM: Magical.

ORION: It's fine. I cast Prestidigitation and
clean it all up.

LAURA: I take it.

MATT: Okay, so you shake off the element--

LAURA: All the goo.

MATT: -- the remaining elements of the dwarven
corpse. Just falls off out of the armor. You have

to kind of shake it and eventually all of it
escapes--

LAURA: Yes. Thank you!

TALIESIN: Dwarven corpse.

LIAM: It's like pulled pork.

LAURA: Mm.

MATT: Make an arcana check. It does have a magical
aura.

LAURA: (gasps) What is it?

ORION: Nice. 20.

MATT: All right. It appears to be a simple but
powerful enchantment. It is a pair of studded

leather armor with a +2 enchantment.

LAURA: +2 enchantment to what?

SAM: +2 enchantment?

MATT: To your AC.

LIAM: If I try to pull on the sleeve, does it come
up to my elbow or does it stretch out and fit?

MATT: It comes up to your elbow and then, given a
moment, it fits to your form.

LAURA: Ooh, yeah!

LIAM: That's nice.

LAURA: Go take that studded leather armor,
brother!

LIAM: I'll take this, hold on. Thank you. I go
into the smelly corpse hut

and start to change my armor.

LAURA: What did you get? Let me see that.

SAM: So wait, does he get a bigger or higher AC?
What is that?

MATT: Yes, it is considered-- it works as studded
leather armor, but that gives him a +2 bonus to

his armor class on top of that.

SAM: Wow, that's huge!

LAURA: Yeah, so he just took it.

SAM: I'll take it.

LAURA: He already took it.

MARISHA: Hey, dungeon master? Asking as the
dungeon master.

MATT: Yes?

MARISHA: If I cast Owl's Wisdom on people, it
gives people advantage on wisdom checks. Would

that count on saving throws against willpower?

MATT: No.

LAURA: Damn it!

MATT: Not checks, specifically.

MARISHA: Would it help anything?

MATT: I mean--

MARISHA: Would, would any advantage to wisdom
under Enhance Ability help some?

MATT: Let me double-check it.

SAM: I'll give you all dice before we go in.

LAURA: Some of these-- I remember we rolled
charisma saving throws, though, for the umbers.

They were charisma.

MARISHA: Right. And for the brains it was versus
willpower.

SAM: While the DM looks this up, everyone,
subscribe to the Geek and Sundry twitch channel!

Support the show, support the channel.

MARISHA: Yeah! And don't forget about our charity,
826LA, which

helps children be literate and write stories well.

ORION: It makes them smarter in the head.

SAM: And keep sending us food.

(all laugh)

TRAVIS: We like food.

SAM: And more presents.

LIAM: If you want a thousand years--

ZAC: There's more food on the way, so don't ask
them for more.

MARISHA: What?

ORION: Oh, no!

TRAVIS: No food!

TALIESIN and SAM: No more food.

MATT: Yeah, we have enough food, guys,
thank you.

LIAM: If you want a thousand years of D&D, we've
got to pay the overheads, so please, subscribe!

ORION: It's true!

MATT: So yeah, unfortunately it helps ability
checks, those are not considered saving throws.

LAURA: All right.

MARISHA: I don't know if I have anything.

TALIESIN: We'll be all right, we'll be all right.

ORION: As we start to walk, I cast Stoneskin on
myself.

MATT: You cast Stoneskin on yourself? All right,
Stoneskin's on you, Tiberius.

LIAM: Once you've got the dwarf gunk off, it's
rather nice.

LAURA: Oh yeah?

LIAM: Yes, it's supple.

SAM: All right, shall we keep on keeping on?

TALIESIN: Let's go.

LAURA: Let's go, let's keep on moving!

MARISHA: Let's get it done.

ORION: (sings) Keep on keeping on.

MATT: You guys keep pushing forward.

ORION: Is that what we're going to do?

LAURA: All right.

MATT: All right, as you begin to press through the
goblin ghost town--

TRAVIS: We've got to get it closer than that.

LAURA: I'm still tracking, looking for anything
interesting.

MATT: Which you do, you catch, off in the
distance, another faint moving light source.

LAURA: Oh shit! Hey, everybody, calm down.

SAM: Huh?

LAURA: Sh! There's something moving in the
distance.

MATT: Everyone roll a stealth check.

TRAVIS: Stealth check?

MATT: Yes.

LAURA: Oh god, roll a stealth check. (gasps)
Natural 20!

MATT and LIAM: Nice!

LIAM: 30.

MARISHA: 15.

ORION: 11.

SAM: 20.

TALIESIN: 12.

TRAVIS: (softly) Six.

MATT: Okay, as you all buckle down and be as quiet
as you can--

LAURA: You rolled a six? He rolled a six.

MATT: You begin to see--

SAM: (whispers) Grog rolled a six.

LIAM: (whispers) Stay put, you asshole.

MATT: No, noted, that's okay, that's okay. It's a
group check,

in which case people offset each other's 
difficulty.

TRAVIS: Yay, bell curve.

MATT: So you seem to be comfortable in the
stillness of the moment. Best you can see in the

distance, you see figures shifting, moving away
from you.

LAURA: (whispers) Sh, figures!

MATT: Many figures. A fairly large group of
seeming to be humanoid figures, moving steadily

away from you.

LAURA: Can we scout ahead? We're both really super
stealth, can we like--

LIAM: Yeah, we're gonna start kinda quickly dash
after them.

MATT: Yeah, using your same stealth rolls, you
push forward.

TRAVIS: Humanoid figures, you say?

LIAM: Could mean anything.

MATT: Yes, best you could tell. As you guys start
reaching the outskirts of the opposite side of

this small, goblin village that has been
completely sundered, you see a cliff, but a large

cliff. The actual surface here comes to a very
direct end and seems to just disappear into a dark

abyss. There is a singular, ten-foot-wide rope
bridge, that is bolted into the side of this cliff

and stretches out across this giant crevasse, for
what-- you can't see the other side.

TRAVIS: Awesome!

LAURA: This feels like The Descent, I don't like
this, you guys.

MATT: It very much has that kind of a feel. It
just goes on a for a good 60, 70 feet, and then

darkness. And you can see what looks to be a
cluster of about 12 to 13 duergar--

LAURA: (whispers) Oh no.

MATT: -- making their way in lines of two across
this bridge. Amongst them, they have, chained up,

three dwarf miners that they are also dragging
across the bridge.

SAM: We have to save those ones.

TRAVIS: Just cut the bridge

SAM: No, no!

LAURA: What do the miners look like? Are they--
are they docile, or are they--

do they seem to be fighting back?

MATT: They don't appear to put up much of a fight
in their current circumstance.

LIAM: How wide is the bridge?

MATT: Ten feet.

LIAM: Ten feet? That means two people wide.

LAURA: Grog goes by himself. Yes.

LIAM: But if we go out there, it's going to be
close combat.

TRAVIS: (whispers) We have a flying carpet.

LIAM: You can't get to the ones at the back.

LAURA: I mean how many are there? Like ten or so?

LIAM: 12. 12 I count.

MATT: From what you can see it looks about 12-ish

LAURA: And they have a light source with them so
we can definitely see them?

MATT: They do, it's a very faint light. It's like
a small cluster of the red stone that's been mined

and put into a spherical element and is hanging
from a chain like a lantern.

LAURA: We have two options. We can fight them.

LIAM: We could fight now.

LAURA: Or follow them.

TRAVIS: Follow.

LAURA: I think we follow them.

MARISHA: Do I see any-- are there any bats?

MATT: Make a perception check.

SAM: If we follow them on the bridge, won't they
feel it bouncing?

MARISHA: I failed.

LAURA: We gotta wait 'til they cross it, Scanlan.

SAM: We can't see the end of it.

LIAM: I grab my ear and, Keyleth, I heard you
through Tiberius' earring,

why don't you just become a bat and follow along?

LAURA: She's trying to do that.

MARISHA: I was gonna see if they're in the--

LIAM: You've never seen a bat in the woods?

MATT: Best you can tell, and from your knowledge
of bats and their existence, they generally live

in caverns that have readily available openings to
the outside world, where they do their nocturnal

hunting. This is a very, very deep cavern that
does not have easy access to the surface. Bats are

probably not a good chance in this cavern.

LAURA: I've got an idea. I run back to Grog,
stealthed. I get our flying carpet.

MATT: A hand suddenly mysteriously reaches into
the bag.

TRAVIS: (sputters)

LAURA: Gimme the carpet.

TRAVIS: What?

LAURA: The carpet. Gimme the carpet.

SAM: Just you? You're gonna go on the carpet
alone?

LAURA: And him. we can both go on the carpet.

SAM: What if something happens?

LAURA: We just gotta see where they're going!
We'll come back and get you.

SAM: I'm coming with you.

LAURA: All right, Scanlan.

TRAVIS: I give them her carpet, but I also tie the
endless rope thread around.

LAURA: Oh yeah. Okay, so we have an endless rope
with us.

LIAM: Now we're a kite.

MATT: You pull out the carpet and lay it out. At
this point in time,

they're a little over halfway across the bridge.

LAURA: Okay, so we--

MATT: Which, you can see it swaying in a very
uncomfortable way.

LAURA: Scanlan, you better be stealthed.

MATT: You hear the stretching of ropes.

LAURA: Oh, you can hear the rope?

MATT: As you hear the rope just tense as the
bridge is slowly swaying. So you guys lay out the

carpet. The two of you get on?

LAURA and LIAM: And Scanlan.

LIAM: I grab Scanlan by the scruff of his neck.

MATT: The three of you guys hop on, and it's
probably big enough for the three of you.

It's about the right size.

SAM: Shotgun.

MATT: The carpet begins to lift off, and you kind
of will it towards-- Are you going straight over

the bridge or are you taking a side route?

LAURA: We're going next to the bridge.

LIAM: Side and up. 'Cause they can look sideways.

LAURA: I think we should go down below the
bridge.

LIAM: If you're on a bridge, you're looking down
at your feet.

SAM: Let's go above them.

LAURA: All right, fine, fuck it, go above them.

MATT: Okay so you guys, you take up over. First
off, the three of you guys make a stealth check.

LAURA: I thought we were still stealthed?

MATT: Maneuvering on a flying carpet is a
different type of locomotion.

TALIESIN: We have a flying carpet, by the way.
That's a thing.

SAM: Not great. 13.

LIAM: 29.

LAURA: 17.

MATT: Okay.

MARISHA: Were you guys trying to stealth? Is that
what happened?

MATT: So, as soon as you reach the edge of the
crevasse, immediately the air itself is warmer. And

there's actually a bit of a strange breeze blowing up
from underneath this giant crevasse. And you look

down and you can see, faintly, light sources.
Long, thin, trickling

streams of what looks like molten rock.

TRAVIS: Shit.

SAM: Way down below.

MATT: Way down below.

TRAVIS: That's a ways.

MATT: It's at least a thousand feet down.

SAM: We don't want to fall.

MATT: Don't fall, it's very bad. The air itself
has a very sulfurous smell. There's a lot of

various strange chemical scents that's a bit
pungent to the nose. There's a lot of chemical

reactions that are causing this atmosphere. It's a
little difficult to take any air at first. You

have to get adjusted. It is a very, very deep
cavern below. When you look behind, you can see

the river that's been cascading through this
cavern goes rocketing off the edge and disappears

into the darkness below. Are you keeping your
distance or--

LAURA: Keeping a good distance.

LIAM: Distance, because they have a light source,
so we want to follow that.

LAURA: Yeah, so we need to stay kind of out of it
but see it.

MATT: Okay. You guys push forward, keeping at a
safe distance. You eventually follow them across

the crevasse, and you can see now them entering
what looks like a shanty town of tents and small

stone structures. Better built than the goblin
village that was previously there, but it looks

almost like a temporary or pseudo-temporary series
of homes for the duergar in this section. There's

a bunch of military tents and cloth pup tents put
up in sections. You can see some easy-to-construct

one- or two-day constructions of stone buildings.
Very square, very rigid and dwarven in their

design, more for utility that any sort of visual
presentation or beauty.

LIAM: This is a temporary war camp.

LAURA: It is.

MATT: There are also a series of these-

LIAM: Yes!

MATT: -- of these redstone--

LAURA: Good dialogue!

MATT: Yeah, it's legit guys. A series of these
redstone torches that they were holding, or these

lanterns, are hung up all throughout the village
on these giant poles that have been placed in

areas to give a little bit of an occasional light
source throughout this entire camp.

LAURA: About how many people does it look like-- I
mean, how big is this camp?

MATT: How big, the camp?

LIAM: How many buildings?

MATT: At a first glance, you can only check out
elements of it from your distance, you're only

making out shapes from how far back you guys are
without actually getting inside. You gather you've

probably seen throughout, just this portion that
you've come into, anywhere from 30 to 40 duergar

moving through, as well as a few larger shapes.

LAURA: (whispers) Oh, shit.

MATT: You swear you catch one or two other very
large humanoid hulking figures just

(thudding noises)

LAURA: Oh no.

MATT: Stepping through the camp.

LIAM: How are we gonna get through this?

LAURA: How are we-- what are we gonna do? What are
we gonna do?

SAM: The view up here is beautiful!

LAURA: (sings) A whole new world.

MARISHA: (whispers) Hey, hey, what do you guys
see?

ORION: Scanlan, what's going on?

LAURA: (whispers) Okay, so--

SAM: Is the range? How are--

MATT: The range is getting a little broken, you
can hear--

LAURA: Okay.

MATT: The words are coming through but--

MARISHA: You're cutting out. I can't hear you

LAURA: Okay.

LIAM: I think--

LAURA: Well, one of us.

SAM: We'll update you soon.

LAURA: Well, one of us. Let's put down.

LIAM: Put down?

TRAVIS: In the volcano?

LAURA: No no no, how are we, like--

TRAVIS: Just go straight down.

LAURA: At a place where we can land the carpet and
stand around.

SAM: They'll probably see us.

LAURA: Or should we go back?

LIAM: We're past the chasm at this point or still
afloat?

MATT: You've just now crested--

LIAM: The other side.

MATT: The crevasse the other side. And you're
feeling uncomfortable pushing further forward

because you're now starting to get a lot more eyes
in your vicinity.

LAURA: Okay, are there any-- does it look like--
do we see any cavern openings in the vicinity?

Does it look like there's any?

MATT: Looking around, there are no side caverns,
this is actually a pretty smooth cavern that kind

of circles around where this camp is built, there
is one large tunnel entrance

on the opposite side that continues past.

LAURA: But they're blocking it? Or--

MATT: You can't see anything beyond the fact that
the tunnel-- the walls kind of convene. You can

see a little bit of a tunnel opening and just
darkness beyond that.

LIAM: So, bridge to land, and then a tunnel.

MATT: A tunnel on the other side, and where the
land starts there's a giant portion of the cavern

that continues and then closes off, kind of
pinches, to the entrance to where the camp is.

LAURA: How far away is the camp from that?

MATT: The camp is completely filling this side of
the cross. It's blocking pretty much the whole.

LAURA: Oh, so we can't get to that.

MATT: Not without going through or over the city.

LAURA: What about--

LIAM: So it's bridge, town, tunnel.

SAM: Tunnel.

MATT: Correct.

LAURA: Do we see any closer-- Under the bridge,
are there any openings

underneath the bridge that look like--

MATT: Do you want to swoop down and check?

LIAM: Yes.

LAURA: Yeah.

MATT: Okay, you swoop down and--

LIAM: (whoosh)

MATT: --the rock there--

LAURA: (whoosh)

MATT: (whoosh) -- the warm air is still kinda
bothering you in general.

LIAM: (makes farting noise)

LAURA: Excuse me.

MATT: You find yourself kinda taking your cloak
and putting it over your mouth just to get the

scent out. The side of the rock surface is worn
through what looks like maybe a possible river

that also came from the other side that has since
dried out, so you can see there is, while no water

on this side of the crevasse, a lot of the stone
has been smoothed just through rapid water running

for thousands of years possibly. But there are no
visible openings

or other additional caverns on this rock surface

LAURA: What are we gonna do?

TRAVIS: (whispers) Are they still on--

SAM: Okay, listen. Leave me behind, I'll follow
the party with the hostages, I'll see where they

go. Don't worry, I'll be invisible. Go back, tell
our fellows, get them across the bridge,

and we'll meet here in about an hour.

MARISHA: Okay.

LAURA: Scanlan!

TRAVIS: I like it.

SAM: What? I'm super brave and hung, come on,
let's do this.

(all laugh)

LAURA: All right, I'm down. Should we do it?

LIAM: All right.

LAURA: We drop him off.

SAM: I turn invisible.

TRAVIS: (sings) Scanlan, the best bard.

SAM: And I'm gonna just hang behind the party
that's got the hostage dwarves,

and just kinda see where they go.

MATT: Okay.

LAURA: Should one of us protect him?

TRAVIS: Do you activate hung at the same time?

SAM: Don't have to activate.

LIAM: He's invisible, though.

TRAVIS: Okay.

LAURA: I mean, we can't go invisible, we can't be
as like--

LIAM: No.

SAM: It's passive.

MARISHA: It's a racial bonus.

LAURA: He's sneaky, we can't be as invisible as
him. All right.

SAM: Yeah but I might make-- I might snap twigs.

LIAM: Last question. Where are the people, the
figures we were following?

Did they finish the bridge at this point?

MATT: They're long past the bridge, they're inside
the city proper at this point.

LAURA: Okay.

LIAM: Okay, so then I'll stay by the edge of the
bridge, you go back. Scanlan, go ahead, I'll wait

for you here, if there's trouble.

SAM: Ding-a-ling-a-ling!

LIAM: Yes.

SAM: Got it.

LAURA: All right.

MATT: All right.

LAURA: I go back, thanks.

LIAM: Shit.

LAURA: Thanks for sending me back. I go back.

LIAM: Go get the others.

MATT: All right.

MARISHA: Okay.

MATT: Scanlan. As you go ahead, make your way in
towards the city,

go ahead and make a stealth check with advantage.

TRAVIS: C'mon, buddy.

SAM: 16. 18!

MATT: 18, okay. You push, kind of falling behind
the main group, and they're heading towards this

kind of, more or less a loose thoroughfare in the
center of this town. You can see a few duergar

coming out and kind of inspecting as they enter,
speaking in a language you don't understand,

asking questions, some of them are coming out and
slapping the dwarf captives as they go across, or

spitting on them. The dwarves look very broken and
unhappy with the circumstance, but brimming with

anger. You see a couple of them are, like true
dwarves, they haven't given in to it, they're just

looking for an option or a moment to get some
vengeance. They're stripped of all armor and

weaponry. They're brought through some of the
alleys and paths between these pup tents and these

stone structures. You can see, there are some of
the hulking figures,

there are two trolls wandering amongst these 
duergar.

TRAVIS: Yes! (whispers) Trolls!

MATT: Now, you've encountered trolls before, but
these trolls--

LAURA: (gasps) Yeah we have.

MATT: -- also have a similar, pupil-less, clouded
over, white-eye appearance--

SAM: Ooh! They're slave trolls!

MATT: As you begin to follow them further in, you
manage to see two ogres that are currently

stationed across this main open center location in
this campsite. And both of these ogres also have

the same, pupil-less, white, glazed-over look to
their eyes. And they're both just kind of glancing

about. The rest of the duergar are in the process
of constructing other tents. Some of them look

like they're actually in the process of forging
weaponry. It feels like it's a war camp. It's

definitely preparing for something. However, in
the center of this main area, you do see, there is

a wooden platform, about 20 foot by 20 foot, that
is raised up, and you see a group of about six

duergar that are all wearing very intricate, black
iron plate armor.

And they're all just sitting on the outskirts 
of this platform.

SAM: White eyes?

MATT: All the duergar seem to have that natural
look to their eyes as well.

TRAVIS: Shit.

SAM: Okay.

MATT: As the party you've been following enters
the center of this vicinity,

make another stealth check, with advantage.

SAM: Gah. 19.

MATT: All right. You kind of step off to the side,
a duergar steps out of one of the tents near you,

and you just barely manage to pull out of the way
without making any sort of squeak or noise.

He goes by. (sniffs)

TRAVIS: Oh god!

LAURA: Oh god!

LIAM: Careful, Bilbo!

MATT: And begins stepping out, looking intently
for something, but right past you, by inches, as

he walks past. You look over again, to the camp,
and you can now see, toward the very back end of

this open midsection, by this platform, there is
one large, stone construct. It looks like a

makeshift barracks has been placed there, with
double stone doors that are currently opened, and

you can see two figures stepping out of the stairs
that lead into these barracks, heading towards the

main platform. They step up onto the platform. One
of which is a very, very well-decorated duergar,

who's wearing similar blackened plate armor as the
other kind of elite guard that you saw surrounding

this platform, but with gold and silver scrolling
on it, a long, tattered, dark, dark purple cape,

and has a nasty scar across the cheek that leads
into this kind of gnarled, grey beard. As it steps

forward, you can see, sheathed off to its back in
a large scabbard, a gargantuan-- for a dwarf

especially-- two-handed sword that should be
unwieldy for a creature of its size. But

nevertheless looks dangerous and a creature next
to it is--

LAURA: (whispers) We can't fight these guys.

MATT: -- not so small, not dwarven. Actually, very
tall, lanky, long, black and purple robes, a

hood, obscuring its features, stepping roughly two
feet behind it as they both step on to the

platform to address the rest of the guard and the
approaching party of duergar dwarves you've been

following. You can see some conversation
happening, but you're too far away to really make

out anything that's being said, do you want to
move closer?

SAM: Do I speak their language?

MATT: Do you speak Undercommon?

SAM: Nope!

MATT: Then you-- it all sounds gibberish to you!

SAM: Then, no thank you. (laughs)

MATT: Okay. But you see some conversation
happening. This seemingly officious duergar, this

general that steps out and commands the attention
in the room, makes a few gestures, shouts out to

amongst the other nearby. Not quite sure, but you
get the idea he's giving orders or directions. The

war party then begins to pull the slaves back
away, and--

SAM: The captives? Okay.

MATT: The captives. Begins pulling them away
toward another section on the side. As it does,

the tall, lanky figure, which you now get the
sense that it's not really walking.

It's just kind of drifting--

SAM: (apprehensive sound)

MATT: -- holds its hand out. This long, long
finger and lanky hand, and as it does, every

single duergar in the vicinity, whatever it was
doing, stops in place,

and all turn and look at it, as one.

SAM: Whoa.

MATT: At which point, this creature brings its
fingers in a beckoning gesture,

loosely in your direction.

SAM: I'm wearing my ring of mind-shielding, by the
way.

MATT: For a split second, you feel your heart at
your throat, and the entire back of your body

stands on pins and needles as one of the duergar
carrying one of the captives begins to pull one of

the dwarven captives back towards the platform. As
it does, the dwarf, who is giving kind of a fight

and looks nervous, looks over at the figure and
its arms go limp to its side, and it begins to

walk out of its own volition, taking two, three
steps. Steps onto the platform and approaches this

tall, lanky figure with the hood and long robes
behind it. As it does, its hand reaches out and

caresses the side of this dwarf's face. This dwarf
seems to have given up all sense of fight or any

sort of conflict and just stares up into this
darkened hood. As the tall, lanky creature reaches

out with both hands and pulls the dwarf forward,
you see these terrible purple tentacles come

writhing out of the front of the hood, wrapping
around the head of the dwarf, pulling it into it.

As the hood falls back, you see this horrible
smooth, purplish-blue hairless head, these sunken

yellowish-green eyes as the tentacles wrap around
the dwarf's head and pulls it into its mouth.

There's a brief struggle, and then the dwarf's
arms fall limp to its side. At which point, the

tentacles unravel from its head, the creature
pulls back, a bit of ichor and dwarf blood

dripping from what looks like a lamprey's toothy
maw, and then thrusts the body to the ground, with

a thud as it falls lifeless to the ground.

SAM: Poor son of a bitch.

MATT: A horrible, bored hole in its forehead. The
creature then draws its hood back up, releases its

hand in a cursory fashion, and all the duergar
whip back around and continue the motions they

were previously going towards. As the two dwarven
captives that now remain look completely stunned,

their faces white with fear as they are being
dragged off in this state. The tall, lanky figure

gives a nod to the duergar general, who gives a
nod as well, then to turn around and walk back.

LAURA: Oh god.

SAM: Worst show ever. Okay. That was one of the
captives.

Do I see where the other captives were taken?

MATT: The two other captives, you follow them?
They both are pulled to-- essentially to a western

side. If you look overhead, this is where the
barrack building is, this is where you entered and

this is the main area. They are pulled off to the
western side here. They are taken to a large tent.

As they are pulled in, they close it behind them.
You can hear some muffles

and some growling from the inside of the tent.

SAM: Okay. I assume bad things are happening in
there, I don't need to see it, right? I think I'll

just kind of-- is there anything--

MATT: Do you speak Dwarven?

SAM: No, oh, no, do I? What do I speak? Where does
it say? Shit.

MATT: Should be on the lower left-hand of your
player sheet.

LAURA: Did you choose languages?

SAM: I play a shawm. No, I just speak Common and
Gnome.

MATT: You hear what sounds like guttural Dwarvish
being shouted angrily, cursing from the interior,

and a few other dwarven voices also joining in--
more than two. You hear some horrible, sick thuds

and some impacts and some cries of pain. And
eventually, the five duergar dragging the captives

walk out, carrying cudgels at their side, still
dripping with fresh blood.

They kind of go amongst their own business 
from there.

SAM: Okay. I think I'll go back to my fellows.
There's nothing I can see-- that door doesn't

lock-- does it lock by any chance?

MATT: It's just an opening tent.

SAM: Open tent. There's nothing lying around, none
of that black armor lying around or anything?

Any extra things --

MATT: Not on the street.

SAM: Okay, I think I will just make back for my
friends, then.

MATT: Okay, make a stealth check.

LAURA: Oh, god.

SAM: With advantage?

MATT: With advantage.

(all laugh)

SAM: 21.

MATT: You maneuver your way out back the way you
came, best you can, remembering-- you get

disoriented in general trying to find your way
out. Go ahead and make a survival check.

LAURA: Oh no!

SAM: Survival check, so plus zero. 17.

MATT: 17.

LAURA: That's a good roll, yo.

MATT: Okay, you take a moment, orient yourself,
looking about the cavern. This is a very confusing

network, and the passages you've gone-- you paid
more attention to what's happening--

SAM: It's like Venice.

MATT: Kind of, yeah. You nearly get lost twice,
but eventually find your way back to the

southern-portion entrance of this war camp. You
can just see the crevasse and you start getting

the familiar scent of that sulfurous wind that was
billowing out from underneath. You step out a few

more feet, and you can see the edge of the bridge
where the rest of you have finally come to converge

on the other side of the crevasse.

LAURA: Ooh!

SAM: Whoa. I am going to tell you everything that
just happened, in detail, in real time.

(all laugh)

LAURA: Maybe he can tell us while we are taking a
bathroom break?

MATT: You know what, let's go ahead and take this
moment to have a bathroom break,

guys, as sort of the halfway mark.

MARISHA: Holy shit.

MATT: We will continue this in just a moment. In
the meantime, take a rest, take ten or 11 minutes.

We are going to play our character backgrounds for
those who haven't seen it.

We will be back here in about ten minutes, guys.

MARISHA: What are we going to do?

TRAVIS: We are gonna fight the shit out of them.

LIAM: We're going to risk it all.

[break]

[no audio]

MATT: -- for her as well, so look forward to that
some point in the near future. As we left off, the

party had just reconvened on the other side of
this gargantuan crevasse in the Underdark, after

Scanlan had stealthed into the duergar war camp,
witnessed a number of dwarven captives being taken

somewhere, however, one of which was devoured by
some strange creature. Left brainless and dead on

the platform in the center, outside of a giant
barracks-type building. You reconvened and

expressed all of this information to the party.

SAM: And that's when I came back to see you guys.

(all laugh)

TRAVIS: Great.

TALIESIN: Wonderfully detailed.

LAURA: What are we going to do?

MARISHA: I give Scanlan some water from my water
skin.

LIAM: You are a brave little fellow.

SAM: Thank you.

LAURA: Has anyone come across these creatures
before? These weird tentacle brain guys?

MARISHA: I've heard rumors of those. Can we make a
check for those?

ORION: It sounds like it would be a mind flayer,
of sorts.

LAURA: A mind flayer?

ORION: A mind flayer or mind slayer, I'm not too
sure.

SAM: What is that?

ORION: I'm pretty sure it flays your mind. I'm
never encountered one myself, so I have no idea,

really. Oh, right, let me check my books.

MATT: Intelligence.

ORION: 14.

MATT: You probably call it a mind flayer.

ORION: It says right here, mind flayer. The rest
is all inked up. I got water on it.

(all laugh)

TRAVIS: How big was this mind flayer, was he like
20 feet tall, Scanlan?

SAM: He was tall, I mean everyone looks 20 feet
tall to me, I'm a gnome.

TRAVIS: Was he bigger than me?

SAM: He was bigger than you by a little?

MATT: No, roughly a little shorter than him. But
taller than most.

SAM: He carried himself big. He was lanky.

TRAVIS: Let's go fuck him up.

LAURA: No, Grog!

TRAVIS: What?

LAURA: Do you want to be unconscious again? We
have to be careful here.

TRAVIS: It was rather restful.

LAURA: How many dwarves did it sound like there
were locked in that prison cell?

SAM: Several?

MARISHA: Did you see Lady Kima?

SAM: No sign of Lady Kima at all, just a bunch of
dwarves being held against their will, and then

one by one being brain sucked by Mr. Lanky Man.

TRAVIS: And those two big trolls.

ORION: Percy, could you take a look at this?

SAM: Two big trolls, and ogres, don't forget
ogres, there's ogres too.

TRAVIS: There are ogres?

SAM: Yes, there were two big ogres as well. And
duergar aplenty--

maybe four dozen or so, three dozen?

LIAM: Spread throughout the city, throughout this
little camp, Scanlan.

SAM: Wandering. Yes.

TRAVIS: You know my tactic.

TALIESIN: Would it be a nature check to actually
think if I never learned about this in school?

MATT: This would be an intelligence check.

TALIESIN: This would be an intelligence check?

TRAVIS: We should use the volcano as part of our
strategy. Like Moses--

SAM: There's a volcano?

TRAVIS: Well no, the pit--

SAM: Oh the lava, down below?

TRAVIS: Yeah, there's a shitload of that.

MARISHA: Can I meditate to see if I know anything
about this--

LIAM: This seems to match up with the tales that
my instructor, master Tharendril, told me about

back in Syngorn. I wonder if I remember something.
If only I had a small polyhedral to roll-- Wow!

LAURA: Holy moly, you guys.

TRAVIS: Oh, shitcakes.

TALIESIN: It's a stack of pizzas.

MATT: Why are you guys so awesome?

LAURA: You guys are amazing!

MARISHA: Yeah, what the hell?

SAM: Do they know the address here? That's kinda
creepy.

LAURA: Ah, thank you! I was wanting some ice tea!

MARISHA: Thanks chat room!

SAM: Thanks chat room!

LIAM: Thanks! Thank you, long list.

TRAVIS: May your list be ever long, with your--
list.

MATT: So, best you can ascertain, you've never
heard the term mind flayer. But in your people

you've heard stories and tales growing up about
something referred to as an illithid.

TRAVIS: A what?

SAM: An illithid?

MARISHA: An illithid.

MATT: A nasty entity, from beyond.

MARISHA: Illithid, with a D or a T?

MATT: With a D.

As far as you know, all that you've heard,
is that they were considered ghost stories, as a

kid, to keep you from wandering dark caves and
spaces. They would take your minds, and you

thought this whole time that that was just a
fable. That it was just a tale. But you do know

that they normally aren't solitary; they usually
keep company of a colony.

LAURA: (gasps)

TRAVIS: Fudge.

LIAM: Shit.

MARISHA: But I've never heard them called a mind
flayer, but I guess they could be called a mind

flayer. But we call them Illithids. I didn't know
they were real, though.

LAURA: What do we do?

TRAVIS: Why don't we-- Listen, when my Herd used
to wander through the trees and we came upon a

force that was greater than our own, we used the
landscape to our ad-van-tage, so why don't we

provoke an attack? And then retreat over the
bridge.

SAM: And have them all jump over the edge of the
cliff?

TRAVIS: You said they were all gray-eyed, right?

LAURA: At least they'll have to go one at a time,
or two at a time across the bridge.

MARISHA: But Scanlan, didn't you also say that
they were, like, levitating?

TRAVIS: What?

MATT: The one lengthy creature.

SAM: The one lengthy creature was levitating.

LAURA: Well, I mean, can he fly, or can he
levitate?

SAM: Well yes, but I think what Grog is talking
about is the bulk of the fighting force, getting

them to follow us over the bridge and then cutting
the bridge.

TRAVIS: Yeah, like in 300. Which was a great
puppet show I saw.

ORION: Oh Grog, I heard that, where they used 300
puppets!

TRAVIS: Yeah.

ORION: It's amazing!

LAURA: Okay, I like this plan.

LIAM: What if all but a couple of us snuck into
one of these buildings and waited and a couple of

us made a stink and got a significant number of
them to chase across the bridge.

SAM: That's a good idea.

LIAM: But then how could we cut the bridge behind?
We have a flying carpet so we can go back and

forth, but we could drop a significant number of
them down into the lava.

MARISHA: Can we have Tiberius standing there to
just Firebolt it?

TRAVIS: What's the bridge made of?

SAM: Do you want the rope?

ORION: Wait a minute. We want to bait them, is
that what we're trying to do?

SAM: No, we want to drop the bridge and have them
fall to their deaths.

LAURA: Or, Scanlan--

SAM: Yes?

LAURA: Or, what if you let off a stink bomb in the
middle of the camp?

SAM: Well, they would run willy-nilly!

LAURA: Some of them would try to leave across the
bridge.

SAM: Well remember, there's a tunnel on the other
side of camp. They could run that way as well.

LIAM: It's also a huge, and your stink-cloud is
only, you know, 20 or 30 feet across.

SAM: 20 feet.

TRAVIS: "Only".

ORION: How long is the bridge?

MATT: The bridge, now that you've traversed it,
it's ten feet wide, and runs about a little over

200 feet or 250 feet in length.

SAM: You can get a lot of them on that bridge and
then cut it.

ORION: True.

TRAVIS: Makes their numbers count for nothing.

MARISHA: I think I've heard that one. That puppet
show.

SAM: I like that idea.

ORION: I think I might have a solution.

LAURA: Yes, Tiberius? Speak your mind.

ORION: I think it's about time I used these.

TRAVIS: Oh shit.

ORION: For non-combat things. I think we should
create a diversion, but let me do it. I can use my

deck of illusions to generate any kind of number
of sorts of creatures or whatever that I can

control. I can simply toss one out, I believe 50
feet ahead of me, and control it and get their

attention. I can draw them back through the
bridge, using the illusions, taunting them along

the way. They, of course, will give chase, because
they are (chuckles) idiots. And, as soon as we get

enough, we can all-- you can hack away at the
bridge all you like, Grog.

We could both burn it, we could hack and burn.

TRAVIS: What kind of creatures can you make?

ORION: Well, that's all up to the deck.

SAM: It's up to the deck, or it's up to you?

ORION: It's up to the deck.

LAURA: Let's try it!

SAM: So, what if it's a scary thing that scares
them away?

ORION: If I generate something such as-- as
exquisite as a red dragon, say, I'm sure somebody

like the mindfellows-- If they do flee, the camp
will be empty and we can search it and free the

slaves. If not, they will give chase and they will
come and bait it.

Either way, it works in our favor.

TRAVIS: Can I test something real quick? If I pull
out the magic carpet or I take it back from

whoever the fuck had it, and I stand on it, does
it hold me up or do I sink?

MATT: You get on top of the carpet and you will it
to begin to shift, and the carpet around you

lifts, but you are anchoring it to the ground.

TRAVIS: So this is a big problem.

LAURA: But you've got Feather Fall. You've got
Feather Fall! Is that still a thing?

TRAVIS: Yeah, which just slows my fall. It doesn't
take me across.

SAM: That might not be a thing anymore.

ORION: I do have Feather Fall.

LAURA: But Levitate or something-- but we could
tie a rope to you and it can--

LIAM: It makes him lighter, yeah.

LAURA: -- it makes you really light, and we can
just drag you behind us. Yeah, it'll work.

SAM: Why do we need to float Grog?

TRAVIS: If we cut the bridge.

LAURA: In case we destroy the bridge.

SAM: Oh.

ORION: Oh, don't worry about that, Grog. I'll just
cast Fly on you, because I can fly.

TRAVIS: You can just Fly me?

ORION: Yes. We can both fly.

TRAVIS: Okay.

LAURA: And you can Fly Trinket, too?

ORION: Of course, the bear.

LAURA: Of course.

TRAVIS: I'm down for doing this.

LAURA: Let's do it! Do it!

MARISHA: Flying from the--

ORION: We have ways across.

MARISHA: Okay, okay, hang on, hang on.

TALIESIN: This is a good plan.

SAM: Wait, wait, wait. Are we--

MARISHA: So, let's have a failsafe in case a few
get across the bridge.

SAM: Let's also recap which plan we're going with.
One of us creating a diversion and running away,

or these mystical, magical--

TRAVIS: I like the mystical, magical--

SAM: -- weird dragon creatures. What if they scare
them the other way?

TALIESIN: It would have to be pretty scary. And
then, hey, that works.

ORION: I just said, the path would be clear.

SAM: What if--

LIAM: Well, are we scaring them or are we luring
them?

SAM: Also, might I remind--

ORION: It's all up to the deck.

SAM: We're luring them. And also, might I remind
you all, that they're being

mind controlled by this, what, illithid--

TRAVIS: Davy Jones.

LAURA: I feel like we should try to--

MARISHA: Illithid.

SAM: And if the illithid recognizes that your--

LAURA: Wait, wait!

SAM: -- your things are false, then he's not going
to send his men--

LAURA: That's true.

SAM: -- off to chase them.

TALIESIN: Or he may send them to kill whoever is
creating the illusion.

ORION: Exactly.

SAM: However, if we were-- hm.

ORION: Either way, they're coming for us.

LAURA: Maybe we could create a distraction and
bring them away from the tunnel's entrance and we

can just sneak around them. No?

ORION: I mean, did you see a way to do that?

SAM: What? To sneak through the village to the
tunnel? No! Not all seven of us.

And a bear. Are you crazy?

(all laugh)

LAURA: Oh no, he's trying to kill us. All right.

TRAVIS: I'll stay on this side of the bridge, who
wants to go be a distraction? Who wants to be the

bait? Who's real fast?

SAM: Wait, are we doing his bait or are we doing a
real bait?

TRAVIS: I don't--

ORION: We can try both.

TRAVIS: What if you cast something big and they
turn it against us? That could suck.

ORION: Oh!

SAM: It's fake. It's just a hologram.

LAURA: It's not--

ORION: It's an illusion that I control.

TRAVIS: How about we throw one of those and
send--

LAURA: Yeah.

TRAVIS: How about 50/50 it? One fake, one real.
One of us, one of the cards.

LIAM: I'll go.

TRAVIS: Somebody be Gambit and throw that bitch.

MARISHA: We really just need someone to keep them
from running through that tunnel.

LAURA: Yeah.

MARISHA: We need some way to keep them from
coming-- going--

LAURA: Can you send a card that looks like a
dragon on the other side, in the tunnel,

and then they run towards us.

MARISHA: Oh, oh, oh! Wait, wait.

TRAVIS: What's wrong with them running away from
us?

SAM: Oh, snap.

MARISHA: I actually have a spell, while I was
reading through my book last night, catching up on

spells that I kinda forgot about. I learned
something called Hallucinatory Terrain, where I

can make the entire terrain look like whatever I
want.

SAM: Other terrain or an animal?

MARISHA: Other terrain.

TRAVIS: They're mind controlled--

MARISHA: What I can do, is--

LAURA: You can make the chasm look like it's solid
ground!

SAM: Can you make the chasm look like it's solid
ground?

TRAVIS: Ooh!

MARISHA: I can make the chasm look like it's solid
ground--

SAM: Can she do this?

MATT: She can try.

SAM: Yes!

TRAVIS: I like it!

MARISHA: I can make the tunnel across the way look
like it's caved in.

LAURA: Make the big chasm look like solid ground.
They'll fall off the edge!

TALIESIN: That's a great plan.

LIAM: That's a great idea, but let's--

ORION: I'll throw the illusion on the fake lands.

LIAM: -- let's stack the deck, all right? I'm
still gonna be live bait, because I have an

inkling that that thing, whatever it is, with the
tentacles on its face--

SAM: Is gonna see through that.

LIAM: -- is going to see through it. So if we've
got one real half-elf in the mix, he'll focus on me.

So I'll take the flying carpet and tie it around
my back.

LAURA: You better run fast and not get taken!

LIAM: I have boots of haste.

MARISHA: Are you good with hauling ass?

LIAM: Mm?

LAURA: (laughs)

MARISHA: Okay. As long as you can haul ass.

TRAVIS: All right.

LIAM: So I take the rug from Grog--

TRAVIS: Yep.

LIAM: I'm gonna roll it up and I tie it, I have a
rope to tie it to my back.

LAURA: It's a big rug on your back.

TRAVIS: Saddle up, let's do it.

MATT: It's a very big rug.

LIAM: Is it?

MATT: What's your strength?

LIAM: It is--

LAURA: It's a big-ass rug.

SAM: Wait.

LIAM: 14?

LAURA: It'd be like carrying a--

MATT: It won't be cumbersome, necessarily.

MARISHA: Before Liam-- before Vax leaves--

SAM: Wait! Might I interject? I'm so sorry.

MARISHA: Go ahead.

SAM: You guys-- You and you will be hauling ass
away from the charging horde--

LAURA: You? You're not--

TRAVIS: No, no--

LAURA: No, just him.

TRAVIS: I'm staying on our side of the bridge.

SAM: On our side.

TRAVIS: Our side.

LAURA: But he's got a rug, he's got the flying
carpet.

TALIESIN: So we're gonna make them hallucinate--

SAM: So, when you get all the way to the other
side of the bridge, then we're gonna chop.

TRAVIS: No.

LAURA: No, we're gonna chop it when they start
coming across the bridge. We're hoping that

they're gonna just fall off the edge instead.

ORION: Run off the bridge--

TRAVIS: They go, (yells)

SAM: Which side are we gonna chop it on? Our side
or their side?

TRAVIS: Once he gets back to our side.

LAURA: Our side!

SAM: Okay.

TRAVIS: (yells) They come back, everybody falls
in--

LIAM: What's the bridge made of? Is it just rope
and wood?

SAM: Rope.

MATT: From what it looks like, it is rope and
stone platforms.

LAURA: Oh.

LIAM: On both sides?

MATT: Like slats, slats of stone, that then the
rope is tied around.

LAURA: Okay.

MATT: It's a very, very thick, hefty twine.

LAURA: He can cut through that.

TRAVIS: All right. So Tiberius and Vax are going
over.

LAURA: All right!

TRAVIS: Do it.

MARISHA: Before Vax leaves, I just put my hands on
his shoulders, and I cast Enhance Ability on him,

and give you a dexterity boost.

LIAM: Okay.

SAM: I'm also going to sing a little song--

MARISHA: So you have advantage on all dex rolls.

SAM: -- for both of them--

LIAM: So what's the boost? How high is it?

SAM: -- to inspire them.

MARISHA: You have the advantage--

LIAM: Advantage.

MARISHA: -- on all dex rolls.

LIAM: On all dex rolls. All right.

MARISHA: If that comes to that.

LIAM: That's great, because that's how I attack.

MATT: Well, advantage on dex ability checks.

LIAM: Okay.

MARISHA: Ability checks.

MATT: Like acrobatics, things like that, sleight
of hand, stealth.

LIAM: All right.

TRAVIS: Is Scanlan singing?

SAM: Oh, yes, I'll sing an inspiration song for
both of them.

MATT: Okay, so--

SAM: (sings) Hey baby, hey baby, hey!

LIAM: But we need to--

SAM: (sings) Dwarves say. Dwarves say.

(all laugh)

SAM: (sings) Hey baby, hey baby, hey! On to the
bridge and fall down.

(all laugh)

MATT: All right! So.

TRAVIS: Was that Gwen Stefani?

LAURA: All right! (laughs)

MATT: So, inspiration dice to Vax, and who else?

MARISHA: I hope this works.

MATT: Vax and who else? Gets inspiration dice?
Scanlan.

SAM: Oh, I'm sorry, these two-- Grog and Vax.

MATT: Okay. So both of you guys have a d8 of
inspiration dice you can spend.

SAM: Oh! Are you going too?

LAURA: Yeah, no, Grog isn't going, Tiberius is
going.

SAM: I'm sorry. Tiberius and Vax, then.

MATT: Okay. There you go.

TRAVIS: You could have gave it to me.

LIAM: But, Tiberius, walk on a bit behind me, and
I'm gonna walk up

to the edge of town, and I'm gonna chat.

MATT: Okay.

LAURA: Oh my god. What if you-- What!

MATT: So, before this happens, where's everyone
placed? You guys--

LIAM: Yeah, where are you guys--

LAURA: Oh my God.

MATT: You guys are across the bridge.

LAURA: Yes.

MATT: Where's the rest of you?

TALIESIN: I'm gonna set up on our side of the
bridge, I'm gonna set up the Bad News gun and get

ready to train it on whatever might try and come
across.

MATT: Okay.

LAURA: Are there any big rock formations that I
can sort of use as a shelter and kind of stay

behind that but also peek around?

MATT: About 20 feet off from the edge, on the
goblin side, there is one outcropping of, like, a

large stalagmite that you could probably get
behind.

LAURA: Oh, on the goblin side?

MATT: On the goblin side. Oh, do you wanna be on
their side?

LAURA: I want to be on our side.

MATT: Your side, meaning the side that the war
camp is on.

LAURA: No. I thought we were all on the other side
of the bridge.

SAM: We're gonna stay on the side that doesn't
have all the bad guys on it.

MATT: Right. There's the goblin side, which is
where you guys first went through, there's the

bridge, and then there's the war camp side.

LAURA and TRAVIS: Goblin side.

MATT: All right. So you're on-- Goblin side for
you, Goblin side for Grog--

TRAVIS: Yep.

MATT: Goblin side for Percy, setting up the Bad
News, your crazy gun.

TALIESIN: Oh yeah.

LAURA: You're on the war camp side

TALIESIN: Gonna be great.

MATT: And Scanlan as well.

LIAM: Right, and I'm gonna run that, but you guys
are all going back to--

LAURA: We're on the goblin side.

LIAM: The safer side. The further side.

LAURA: Yeah.

MARISHA: I'm gonna be-- Can I be like halfway in
between on the bridge? Is that a bad idea?

MATT: You can do that. It's up to you.

TRAVIS: Go for it! You can fly.

LAURA: Can she fly?

MATT: Turn into birds.

MARISHA: I can turn into a bird.

MATT: She's a druid.

LAURA: Oh! You can turn into a bird!

TRAVIS: Yeah. She's fine.

LAURA: How long does your spell cast? I mean, your
spell last?

TRAVIS: (snickers)

LAURA: Shut up.

MARISHA: My-- which one?

LAURA: Your illusion spell.

MARISHA: It's a concentration thing. So, as long
as I can keep it up.

LAURA: So, maybe you should do that--

MARISHA: Oh. Yeah, for up to 30-- 24 hours,
actually. It's not a concentration spell.

LAURA: So, how far does it reach?

MARISHA: 300 feet.

LAURA: Okay.

MARISHA: 150 square feet.

MATT: Right. Okay.

LIAM: Just needs to--

MARISHA: And it looks, sounds--

LIAM: -- work around the edge of the bridge.

MARISHA: -- smells, like some other sort of
natural terrain.

MATT: So, what are you going to make the terrain
look like? What is your alteration?

MARISHA: So, what I'm doing, whenever we-- can I
make it look like

there's a cave-in happening through the tunnel?

LAURA: (whispers) Wait! No! Make it look like it's
really far--

LIAM: Keyleth, what if you fudged it so the
cliff--

MARISHA: Well, that's what I'm gonna do.

LIAM: -- looked like it went 30 feet further out.

MARISHA: Yeah. What I'm gonna do, I just want the
terrain to look, on my side--

LIAM: Close to what they're used to.

MARISHA: I want the terrain to look exactly like
what it is, but I just wanna stretch it out a

little bit, so it looks like they've got, like, an
extra running space.

MATT: Okay, okay.

LIAM: Yeah, so if it looks too different--

MATT: So like an additional 40 or so feet out from
the actual--

MARISHA: Yes. Of actual, yes. Like the bridge is
an extra 40 feet away.

MATT: Okay. The actual ceiling is maybe about 120
feet up, so it might be a little hard to do that,

and cause a cave-in-type illusion.

MARISHA: Okay. Then I'll do that. Then I'm gonna
just-- you know what, I'm gonna stay on the

opposite side of the bridge, and I'm gonna focus
on making that illusion.

MATT: Okay. Cool. So you go ahead and you cast
Hallucinatory Terrain--

MARISHA: Yep.

LAURA: (yells)

MATT: You now see an additional 40 feet of the
cliff stretching out--

LAURA: It looks very realistic.

MARISHA: Thank you!

MATT: And you can actually see that the bridge
looks attached to it, it's a very, very convincing

illusion. And you kind of have to remind yourself
that it's an illusion, just so you don't fall for

it either!

MARISHA: Yes, be careful guys, please be careful!

MATT: All right. So you're kind of chilling in the
middle of the bridge?

MARISHA: Mm-hm.

MATT: All right. The rest of you are--

MARISHA: All right, I'm on the outside of the
bridge.

MATT: -- on the other side-- outside of the
bridge.

MARISHA: I'm out with them.

MATT: Okay. So you're off the bridge now.

MARISHA: Gone. Yeah.

MATT: All right. So now, Tiberius, Vax, you guys
walk across the bridge, keeping grip both side

rails, feeling it rock to and fro from the
continuous warm bellowing of wind up from the

cavern beneath you. Eventually you bring your way
across. What looks like you should be stepping on

terrain is still the bridge, and it takes you a
minute to adjust to the fact that you're still

going across the bridge, but it looks like rocky
terrain. Eventually you make it to the other side

and you grab purchase on stone. Looking ahead of
you, you can see about 60 feet ahead of you the

outskirts of the war camp.

LIAM: Okay.

Tiberius, you wait here, ready to run. I
take Tiberius by the arm like this. Vox Machina.

ORION: Vox Machina.

(all laugh)

LIAM: Okay. So I stealthily walk up to the
closing distance to the edge of town and I stand

there. I click my boots of haste together.

LAURA: Oh god.

ORION: As he runs off I cast Greater Invisibility
on myself.

MATT: All right.

ORION: I cast Fly on myself and I hover.

MATT: Both of those are concentration spells.

ORION: Fuck!

MATT: You can only have one of those up at any
given point in time.

ORION: I'll cast Fly, then.

MATT: Okay.

ORION: Yes.

MATT: So you're now floating up. Okay.

LIAM: Okay.

ORION: And I'm at enough edge to where her
illusions are, as well.

MATT: Okay.

ORION: But over the bridge just in case I fall.

LAURA: (laughs)

MATT: Okay, all right. So you're now just kinda
hovering above the bridge now. You--

LIAM: I just clicked the boots.

MATT: You feel the sudden surge of magical energy
through your body like

adrenaline just pumping into your system.

LIAM: And I cry out full voice, listen up, you
walking prawn, doom has come for you today.

Step forth, you slimy bastard.

LAURA: Oh fuck.

(all laugh)

ORION: As he does that I toss out three cards.

MATT: All right.

LAURA: Oh gosh.

LIAM: Your trolls can't save you.

ORION: Right at the rim of where the illusion
stops.

LAURA: I will find you.

LIAM: No matter how far or how long.

MATT: Been awhile since you've used those. 
(laughs) All right. Oh, okay.

You shuffled these, right?

TRAVIS: We should call this a rim job.

ORION: Yes.

MATT: All right. This will be very, very
interesting.

LIAM: Oh Jesus.

LAURA: Oh god.

TALIESIN: This is a good plan.

SAM: You got your dice?

TRAVIS: Sure it is.

LIAM: It's a great plan.

SAM: Use your dice.

MARISHA: Are you convincing yourself or are you--

TALIESIN: This is a good plan.

TRAVIS: We're on the safe side with Bad News and
me.

TALIESIN: We're fine.

MARISHA: Yeah, I'm with you guys. We're fine.

MATT: So currently one of the cards bursts and you
can see rising up from its energy this

awful-looking humanoid skeletal undead creature
with long golden red robes, with this gnarled gold

crown and these glowing blue eyes and just pure
arcane energy

across this horribly gnarled skeletal face.

TRAVIS: Okay.

MATT: There stands this hideous-looking lich
cackling to itself.

ORION: Ah, the ace of spades-- two of spades, it
changed, dammit. Looking at Pathfinder right now.

(all laugh)

ORION: Two of spades.

LIAM: Tiberius, can we hit it and quit it?

LAURA: What are the other ones?

MATT: The other one (poof) and you see before you
a kind of --

ORION: Flip them over, they have good graphics on
the cover.

MATT: It's nice. Through the smoke, you see what
looks like some sort of a human kind of long,

long-fighting warrior, grizzled, ready to fight,
has a big old longsword out, armored up in

scalemail, one eye is kinda wounded, and he just
kinda sits there and growls with his blade ready.

The third card. From the smoke appears a
red-skinned dragonborn with long blue robes and a

staff with a glowing beam of light on it.

TRAVIS: Yes.

ORION: Oh. It must be a joker.

MATT: You see an exact duplicate of Tiberius now
standing there as the three illusions stand.

(all laugh)

TRAVIS: Outstanding.

MARISHA: That's perfect.

MATT: Your cards are now spent, correct?

ORION: Uh, no, they exist until I dispel them.

MATT: Right, but I mean the actual cards don't go
back in the deck.

ORION: Yes, they do.

MATT: They do, okay. All right, never mind. Okay.
As you shout out, the card illusion appears. You

see about five or six duergar kind of look out
from a nearby tent and go-- and then start running

toward the center of the town.

MARISHA: Come here, bitches

MATT: About 20 seconds pass. And then you start
hearing this (boom boom boom boom). It sounds like

a drum beat.

LAURA: Oh my god.

SAM: Cut the rope, cut the rope.

LAURA: Not yet, not yet, not yet.

SAM: Leave Vax there, let's go.

(all laugh)

MATT: At this point, you now see about 16 duergar
come running out from the center of town, armored,

weapons drawn, a few with crossbows, two trolls
and an ogre charging out. You see the ogres

holding this giant-- it looks like a stone slab
for one of its clubs, and the two trolls just come

with their claws open, rushing right towards you
and the illusions.

LAURA: Oh my gosh.

LIAM: I start flipping--

ORION: I command the lich to start doing one of
his glowy spells, and, like, through him, I go:

(whispers) Come for us, your death awaits.

(all laugh)

MATT: All right.

LIAM: And I flip the double birds and start
walking backwards a little bit.

SAM: Oh yes, that's even better!

MARISHA: Just watch your step!

LIAM: Yes, straight back.

ORION: I command the soldier to start swinging his
sword.

MATT: As you're stepping back, four of the duergar
immediately take, using their inertia,

pull and release javelins in your direction.

LIAM: Okay.

LAURA: Oh god!

MATT: All right, what's your AC?

LAURA: Oh gosh.

LIAM: My AC is 19.

MATT: All right, you take two javelins--

LIAM: I'm gonna use Uncanny Dodge. For anything I
can see, I can dodge

for half damage, if I need to.

MATT: All right, good to know. The first one
strikes

you in the torso for a total of 11 damage.

LIAM: Shit, okay.

ORION: Oh.

MATT: The other hits you for a total of eight
damage.

LIAM: Is that the halved or--?

ORION: Total.

MATT: No, well, you can choose to half one. It's
up to you, you choose which one.

Probably the higher one.

LIAM: Okay, so, it was 11 and eight?

MATT: So it would be six.

LIAM: Okay, six and eight, okay, 14.

MATT: 14 points of damage with these just javelins
hitting you like, oh, that's right.

They have range!

(all laugh)

LIAM: Right, I knew this was coming.

LAURA: Right!

MATT: You can immediately see one of the trolls
goes and just lunges forward and slashes the lich,

just passing through its form.

ORION: He lunges at the lich?

MATT: Yeah.

ORION: Sweet!

MATT: It went through, it kinda loses its footing
for a second, stops and kinda looks angry,

turns and starts slashing at it again.

LAURA: Run! Run away!

SAM: -- fake ground.

ORION: And I'm like--

MARISHA: Yeah, isn't he on the fake ground? The
lich?

ORION: Yes, yeah, he's like right at the edge.

MATT: Yeah, right at the precipice.

ORION: I can't throw my card on the fake ground.
They'd fall.

MATT: Yeah, so the troll kind of steps forward--

ORION: They're right at the edge, though.

MATT: -- and the troll turns around and starts
slashing. The other one goes right for the

veteran. And (laughs) goes running right off the
edge.

LAURA: (gasps)

ALL: Yes!

SAM: The troll?

MATT: That was the troll, just (falling sounds).
The ogre goes running forward, right towards you.

ORION: I command the--

LIAM: Yes?

MATT: Just their speed, they're just the first
ones to get there. Duergar have tiny legs.

LIAM: (high-pitched voice) Where's the roll for
initiative, man?

LAURA: You're already back, you're at the bridge!

MATT: This is what I'm saying, what are you doing?
This is your reactionary part. We're just taking--

this isn't a battle, this is--

LIAM: Yeah, I'm backing it up, I'm running, man.

MATT: All right, so you go charging back onto the
bridge. As you go running, all right, both trolls

and the ogre have just gone off the side.

LAURA: Badass!

(all cheer)

MATT: You hear them screaming as they tumble into
the darkness.

LIAM: I'm laughing as I run.

TRAVIS: Didn't occur to me that there is a
bridge--

MATT: About four duergar also go spilling over the
side, screaming as they tumble into the darkness.

TRAVIS: Yes!

MATT: The rest of them stop, kind of look around
and--

SAM: This was a great plan!

ORION: I start-- as that's happening, I start to
pull back and float away and I'm commanding all of

my guys to come through the bridge. Because I can
command them within 30 feet. So they're now,

they're all within 30 feet of me, retreating as
well.

MATT: Okay. As this is happening, you can now see
some of the members of the duergar that are now at

the edge are some of the elite guard, with the
blackened armor you saw. They both kinda step

forward and put their foot out, feeling for
purchase, give a nod, pull out their swords, and

start hacking at the bridge immediately.

SAM: (gasps) Oh shit.

LAURA: Shit.

TALIESIN: All right, I'm taking a shot.

LAURA: Can we-- does our aim reach? Our ranged
attacks, do they reach?

SAM: (whispers) You, fly?

TRAVIS: No, he's got it.

LAURA: Do ranged attacks reach?

MATT: From this distance, it's gonna be a serious
penalty.

TALIESIN: I'm not!

MATT: You don't, because you--

TALIESIN: I'm taking that shot, because I can
shoot forever.

MATT: Go for it.

ORION: (gunshot)

LIAM: I'm untying the carpet quickly.

(all laugh)

TALIESIN: Oh, for the love of god and all that is
holy.

MARISHA: (groans) Oh, no.

TALIESIN: Misfire, I gotta--

LAURA: I can at least try, right?

MATT: Go ahead and roll. As you-- You're at
disadvantage.

LAURA: Fail so hard.

MATT: As your arrow (shooting sound) off, you (gun
misfiring sound) and there's a slight delay, and

you wonder, why isn't it working? And this
horrible explosion sound bursts out as you can now

see, black and red smoke pouring out of the front
of the barrel of Bad News, and it burns your hands

for a second and you're like, ah, shit, take a
second to--

TALIESIN: All right, so I gotta stop and clean.

MATT: Yeah, however, because you are unable to
halt that,

both of those duergar take shots at the bridge.

TALIESIN: Damn it.

MATT: Both hit with their swords.

MARISHA: Are you on the carpet, Vax?

TRAVIS: He's getting it out.

LIAM: I don't know, I said I was.

LAURA: Get on it, now.

MATT: As you're running and pulling the carpet
out--

LIAM: Yes!

MATT: -- the bridge is cut clean--

LAURA: (gasps)

MARISHA: Son of a bitch.

MATT: -- and begins to fall out from under you.

LIAM: Okay.

MATT: You go pulling out the--

LIAM: Acrobatics check?

MARISHA: Use them dex saves!

MATT: This is gonna go ahead and be a dex check
now.

MARISHA: You've got advantage!

MATT: You do.

LAURA: Oh, good.

LIAM: Okay, good, because the first roll was a
one. The second roll was a 19.

ORION: Yes!

LIAM: Plus! Plus, plus, plus nine is 28.

TRAVIS: Oh my god! You almost died!

MATT: All right. You pull out the carpet. As
you're going to set it down, as you feel the

bridge beginning to like, give out from under you,
you feel this creepy sensation

pushing towards the back of your head.

LAURA: Oh no!

LIAM: Mm-hm.

MATT: You guys, looking across, you can see now a
familiar cloaked figure has emerged.

(all gasp)

SAM: Oh shit!

LIAM: I drew him out.

LAURA: Clean your gun, clean your gun!

TALIESIN: I'm cleaning my gun.

MATT: Go ahead and make a willpower saving throw.

TRAVIS: Get your bow ready.

LAURA: I am, I'm ready, it's too far!

LIAM: I survive a free fall and you hit me with
that right after? Yeah, will save?

MATT: Willpower save.

LIAM: So that's-- what is it, I've never done
that? That's--

MATT: It's at the top of your sheet of your stats,
above your stats, on the right of your stats. Oh,

it's your wisdom saving.

LIAM: Wisdom, okay.

MATT: Wisdom.

LIAM: Ow, not very good. Seven.

MATT: Seven.

LAURA: No!

MATT: As you are running, you get the carpet out,
you leap onto it and your whole sense and awareness

of your surroundings just fades from you. You just
feel your entire body going numb for a second and

you just feel yourself falling.

MARISHA: Holy shit.

LAURA: Fly down! Get him! Get him!

MATT: Falling back.

ORION: Oh! Oh bother! Shoo! I go get him!

LIAM: 29 dex save right down the toilet.

MATT: You go and swoop down, fly. You manage to--

ORION: Is he conscious?

MATT: He is just staring up at this moment.

ORION: Very good. I go just to touch him, I am not
trying to pull him up.

MATT: Okay.

LAURA: What? Try to grab him! Try to grab him!

LIAM: Fly, he can fly me.

SAM : He is falling!

ORION: He is falling. Fly!

LIAM: Like Superman.

MATT: You cast Fly on him? All right!

ORION: Now fly, damn it.

MATT: He is still just kind of standing there, not
doing anything. As you finish casting the Fly

spell, your Fly spell dissipates because it's a
concentration spell

and you can have one at a given time.

ORION: Wait, you're unconscious?

LIAM: I don't know what I am.

ORION: I ask right now, is he--

MARISHA: He's like catatonic.

ORION: He is, okay. Then I don't do that, because
you can't fly yourself,

so I do grab him, this time.

MATT: Okay, you grab him as his whole weight goes
onto you. What's your strength?

ORION: Oh my god.

LIAM: It has been nice knowing you, ladies and
gentlemen.

ORION: 12.

LAURA: No, no, no.

MATT: Go ahead and make an athletics check.

MARISHA: Come on, Tiberius.

LAURA: Can we see this all happening off to the
side?

SAM: Plus eight.

LAURA: Keyleth!

TALIESIN: It's happening very fast.

LIAM: Oh, shit, can I use--

ORION: It's a 21.

MATT: 21? You rush down, diving, you grab the back
of his armor. As you yank up on him, you manage to

just pull him across and get him to the other
edge. The flying carpet, however, has plummeted

down in--

ALL: No!

TRAVIS: Son of a bitch.

LAURA: You lost our flying carpet, you
unconscious bastard!

MATT: However, Tiberius swoops up. You guys just
see them both plummet into darkness and then

flying up at the edge of the crevasse on your
side, Tiberius clutching your brother, currently

just staring off into space and dropping him down
with a dull sound.

LAURA: Vax!

MATT: The bridge slaps onto the side of the
cavern.

LIAM: Mawp.

LAURA: And I run over to Vax.

LIAM: Mawp.

LAURA: And I'm like trying to figure out what's
wrong with him.

TRAVIS: The magic carpet is done?

MATT: It just disappeared into the darkness
below.

LAURA: Oh no!

TRAVIS: (tearfully) I have to erase it.

MARISHA: Bye, carpet.

TALIESIN: No.

SAM: That was our ticket across the chasm.

LIAM: Yes.

MARISHA: I loved that carpet, damn it.

MATT: About a minute passes or so, you come back
to your senses.

LAURA: Oh, good.

LIAM: I got to get the carpet.

(all laugh)

TALIESIN: Can I clean my gun?

ORION: I slap him with Mage Hand. Snap out of
it!

LIAM: What happened? What happened?

TRAVIS: Wait, do we leave or--

LAURA: No, wait--

TALIESIN: They are still across there, aren't
they?

MATT: You can see across the way that there are a
bunch of them just standing at the edge.

TALIESIN: I wanna take a shot at the--

LAURA: At the--

LIAM: Noodle-face, yeah.

MATT: Okay, go for it.

LAURA: Oh, man!

SAM: You can see them and they control you.

LAURA: Right in the noggin.

LIAM: Shoot it in the eye, man.

ORION: Not from that distance, I don't think. His
sniper rifle goes far.

TALIESIN: Hm, that's a 23.

MATT: Okay, go ahead and roll the damage. Across
the way you can hear the resounding (gunshot).

TALIESIN: Ah, yeah! That don't suck! 20 points of
damage.

MATT: 20 points of damage! Nice. You just see
this blast of red and flame across the way and

the figure is just knocked off its feet, about ten
feet back.

(all laugh)

LAURA: Can you shoot him again?

TALIESIN: Yes.

MARISHA: It's just a carnival game for Percy at
this point.

MATT: At this point in time you can now see the
duergar looking up

and backing away from the cliff side.

TALIESIN: Yeah.

MATT: You come to the bridge, which is just
dangling off the side now.

LIAM: We're on the goblin side, now?

LAURA: Yeah.

MATT: You're on the goblin side and the bridge is
just dangling down into darkness.

TALIESIN: That felt pretty good, too.

LIAM: Who wants to have a picnic?

ORION: I mean, seriously.

MARISHA: So how many (monster sounds) are over
there ?

MATT: You only saw the one.

MARISHA: And how many duergar left? How many--

ORION: Yes, how many are left after all that?

MARISHA: After they fell into--

MATT: After all that, you saw a few more kind of
filter out from the town, you have probably about

25 visible at that moment that have all backed.

TALIESIN: I'm going to hang on him visually and
I'm gonna wait to take another shot

until he tries to stand up again.

MATT: Okay.

TALIESIN: So if he tries to stand up again, I want
to shoot him again.

LAURA: But wait, you can shoot him while he's on
the ground! Can't you?

TALIESIN: That's so much more fun to wait.

MATT: You can shoot him, but it's at disadvantage
to shoot someone who's prone.

LAURA: He's on the ground?

MATT: Yeah.

TALIESIN: Technically, he's got cover. And it's
funnier to just wait.

MATT: A moment passes and he kind of drifts back
up. Take another shot.

TALIESIN: Taking another shot.

MARISHA: Come on, Percy.

LIAM: Come on, baby.

TALIESIN: He's such an asshole.

MARISHA: Like fish in a barrel.

LIAM: Come on, Von Rolo!

TALIESIN: 15.

MATT: 15? Unfortunately, it does not hit.

LIAM: (ricochet noise)

MATT: At that distance, with the darkness, it's
very hard to get your bead on him at that point.

So you (gunshot), fires off, you can now see it
drift away--

LAURA: Fudge!

MATT: -- and all the rest of the duergar are now
retreating into the city.

TALIESIN: Man!

LAURA: What're you gonna do? All of our shit's
gone.

MARISHA: Okay.

TRAVIS: Okay. What're we gonna do? Leave?

LAURA: Maybe we can-- can we walk up and see--

ORION: Let's take a short rest.

LAURA: -- if we can find another bridge?

ORION: While we're figuring this out.

MATT: If you want to. Okay. So you walk over to
the edge, and you kind of look across to the

sides. Make a perception check.

TALIESIN: I'll assist.

LAURA: Oh, 20!

LIAM: 20.

TALIESIN: Never mind!

LAURA: No, no assistance needed.

MATT: Natural 20?

LIAM: Yeah.

TALIESIN: Never mind.

MATT: Natural 20.

LAURA & LIAM: Yes.

MATT: Plus--

LAURA: Plus my perception?

LIAM: (high-pitched) Natural 20 motherfucker!

LAURA: My perception is six.

LIAM: (high-pitched) Automatic win!

MATT: You glance over the side--

(all laugh)

MATT: -- and looking down, you can see the bridge
is just kind of like drifting from the air that's

flowing, and you can just see the-- and it's not
like the whole bottom floor is all lava, there's

just streaks of it pouring down from whatever the
interior of this lower chasm is. You see, at the

edge of the rope break, which goes down for a good
150, 200 feet or so, dangling,

and there's a tiny little flicker of material--

LAURA: (gasps)

MATT: -- wrapped up in the ropes of the rope
bridge.

LAURA: Oh my god.

TRAVIS: It's the carpet!

SAM: Material? It's the carpet!

MATT: It's the carpet! It seems to be the carpet.

TALIESIN: Okay. We have an infinite rope!

MARISHA: Oh! Go!

LAURA: We have infinite rope! I'm gonna tie it to
myself--

ORION: Wait, hold on a second--

TALIESIN: We're gonna lower you down.

ORION: Is it still-- it's just at the end of the--
all the way down there?

MATT: Mm-hm.

ORION: So I fly down there--

LAURA: No-- aww.

ORION: -- and go get it!

SAM: Yeah, that makes sense.

LAURA: Oh, all right.

ORION: It's still in effect!

MATT: Mm-hm.

SAM: Okay, watch out for that warm air, whatever
that was.

MATT: So.

ORION: Ooh. You're right. I take out an empty
bottle while I do this.

MATT: All right. You glide down along the base of
the cut rope bridge, and there, just barely

hanging on by just haphazardly falling and
tangling itself in the ropes is the

flying carpet. As you float down, you now get a
little bit of a better view, as your staff is lit,

you can see, about another 150 feet down below
you, a little bit of a reflection of your light.

It's currently just kind of rippling and
shifting.

LAURA: (gasps) It's water down there?

MARISHA and SAM: It's water?

MATT: It appears to be some sort of water surface
below you. About 150 feet down.

SAM: I thought there was lava--

TRAVIS: I run and jump off the cliff!

MATT: There are streaks of lava--

LAURA: No you don't.

MATT: -- pouring, like from the ceiling and
portions of the wall--

TRAVIS: Yep, and I jumped all the way down.

LAURA: It's 1000 feet down.

MATT: -- but it's all just kind of pouring down
and pooling at the edges and then cooling.

LAURA: It's 1000 feet.

LIAM: That's a big belly flop.

TRAVIS: I have great form in mid-air.

SAM: So there, it's a river--

ORION: And you don't know this yet.

LAURA: Do you want to die?

MATT: And you can see the waterfall, it's
cascading over the side--

TRAVIS: It's water.

LAURA: You're being incredibly childish. Don't do
that.

MATT: -- is currently rushing past you at about 30
feet to your right, and it seems to be splashing

into this pool below.

LAURA: Don't. Dive. 1000 fucking feet.

ORION: Waterfall. Ah!

I retrieve the magic carpet.

MATT: You grab the magic carpet, you roll it up,
make your way back up to the surface.

MARISHA: Carpet!

ORION: Ah, here you are. By the way, cool stuff
down there. It's actually not lava, it's water!

Aha. Believe it or not.

LAURA: Water? How far down from the bridge?

ORION: It's about 150 feet from the bridge, but
it's about 1000 feet down all the way. We could

traverse down, somehow, and I think it would be a
nice place to go explore.

SAM: Place to go explore?

ORION: Especially because we have nothing else to
do, and--

SAM: Well, we could go to the camp and go kick
some--

LAURA: Well, look, we know-- we can't get over
there.

SAM: But we have a carpet now!

ORION: Oh, that's right.

LAURA: Oh.

TRAVIS: Yeah, but we go over one at a time and
then we're waiting for--

MARISHA: Ah, fly me down with you.

LAURA: The thing is--

SAM: The three of us can fly.

MARISHA: Tiberius and I are going to fly down.

LAURA: The thing is, we know that--

MARISHA: On the carpet.

LAURA: -- deeper down is where they've gone.

MARISHA: Yes. That's true.

LAURA: So probably it'd be best to go down. We
could have avoided all of this bullshit if we'd

just have known--

LIAM: But we didn't know, and if there's--

MARISHA: I don't wanna fight, I don't wanna fight
that guy.

LIAM: -- if there's more than one of them these,
though, he's gone boodle-oodle-ooo to his friends

right now, I mean--

LAURA: Right.

LIAM: -- if we can it'd be good to put this guy in
the ground.

SAM: I'm all for going--

MARISHA: I don't know. Okay, take me down--

SAM: There's a tunnel back there--

MARISHA: Hang on, let me, let's go see, let's go
see.

SAM: -- back, past that village, that they're
protecting.

ORION: Well, I'm still flying, you can take--
Percy, would you like to come?

TALIESIN: Oh, all right.

MARISHA: I've-- to ride the carpet down to the
bottom with Percy and Tiberius.

ORION: Well, I-- whoever's going down should be on
the carpet, 'cause I can still fly.

MARISHA: Right.

ORION: So, I don't need it.

MARISHA: Me and Percy are on the carpet.

MATT: All right, so the two of you get on the
carpet, you drift down, and you begin to make your

way down this giant crevasse. As you get down, the
air gets warmer and warmer, and you begin to see

as you come down, a good 600 feet now at this
point, into this much larger space than the one

you guys are currently above. It's like a giant,
triangular, open cavern down here. It kind of

funnels up into where the bridge was.

MARISHA: Do I see any tunnels, or areas that look
like it leads someplace of interest?

MATT: As you look down, there is definitely a
large pool of water that leads off into a few

other underground rivers that spill off into the
mountainside itself. There are sections of the

wall where lava is pouring out, where there seems
to be some sort of a vent or some sort of opening

into some magma reserve, and there are about three
of them that are pouring out, and kind of drifting

down. One of them is pooling and cooling as it
hits the water, and it's just kind of this

perpetually glowing mass of slow-growing rock.
There also appears to be one that is just

continuing to flow that leads, kind of, back in
the direction where you guys came, but underneath.

There's one big lava pool that is spilling, and
then kind of giving a little bit of light to the

inside of a tunnel that continues further down at
a decline. The opposite side--

SAM: Lava tunnels? What, are you crazy?

MARISHA: I keep going.

SAM: Sorry, yes?

MATT: That's okay.

MARISHA: Are you done?

MATT: On the opposite side, you can see there's a
small outcropping and a smaller waterfall that is

pouring out of the side of the mountain, like
another sea is now meeting the river underneath,

and that is just kind of cascading out from the
side of the rock, dropping about 30 or 40 feet,

and hitting the edge of the rock pool.

MARISHA: Okay.

LIAM: On Cthulhu's side, you're talking about?

MATT: On Cthulhu's side. Yeah.

ORION: I think we should--

MARISHA: I say, Tiberius, give me some light?

ORION: Oh!

MARISHA: And I take-- and I cast Control Water,
and I just take the pool-- the water in the bottom

of the pool, and I bend it, and I part the pool,
and I take it and I cascade it all the way up,

following the lava flows.

MATT: Okay. Just so you're aware, the pool is
about 600 feet across.

(all laugh)

MARISHA: I can part seas with this.

MATT: Right. So you can part elements of it, but
like, it is a large, large, large body of water.

MARISHA: Oh, okay, okay. Well I'm taking-- okay. I
don't necessarily part it, but I take the water,

and I draw it up, cascading along the edges
following

all the lava streams going into the tunnels.

MATT: Okay, another thing you notice, is there are
two trolls and an ogre currently trying to stay

afloat, as one of them just (sucking sound) gets
pulled under the water.

LAURA: Gets pulled under?

MATT: Yes.

SAM: (yells)

MATT: You begin moving the water to the sides and
you begin to cool some of the lava flows.

ORION: Oh, that's awesome.

MATT: You can see the glowing red magma begin to
cool to a dark black and become solid. As it does

you can see parts of it crack, as the magma's
still pushing out. But you're definitely

staunching the flow.

MARISHA: I'm gonna kind of push it, you said there
was a tunnel kind of going up into Cthulhu side?

MATT: Yeah, there is a tunnel that seemed-- the
opening leads to the back, and there's a waterfall

that is pouring out from that side.

ORION: Waterfall.

MARISHA: There's a waterfall.

MATT: Waterfall.

ORION: Not a lava fall.

MATT: The lava flow is going down the opposite
direction.

MARISHA: But there's like a tunnel kind of carving
out that way?

MATT: Yeah. Like a large opening that continues
further down.

MARISHA: Okay, I take all of the water, and I
really just concentrate, and I gather just a big

tube, and I push it down that tunnel.

MATT: Okay, so the best-- the water that you
gather from this, you force into a quick geyser in

that direction. As it sprays across the front, you
can see it begins to cool some of the magma. It's

a pretty hefty flow, you manage to slow it, and
you do cool parts of it, but it's gonna be

difficult and take you a while, if you're just
constantly pushing water on it, to give the flow

any sort of serious stop. You notice the lava flow
doesn't coat the entire floor of the tunnel, just

a side of it. It's almost like there's some
portion of it that is walkable,

adjacent to the lava.

ORION: We can also go in the not-lava cave,
Keyleth.

MARISHA: I'm sorry, that lava cave just looks
important.

ORION: I know. Because of the lava.

MARISHA: Yeah.

ORION: Let's go tell the others what we've
found, and then we'll

come back and decide which way to go.

MARISHA: Okay, okay.

TALIESIN: Sometimes a lava cave is just a lava
cave.

ORION: I fly back up.

MATT: Okay.

ORION: Guys. Blah-blah-blah-blah.

SAM: So here's my thoughts.

MATT: The other troll. (sucking sound) Pulled
beneath the surface.

SAM: Yeah, so, I don't wanna go down there--

MARISHA: Also, it looks like there's something
eating those trolls.

SAM: -- there's things pulling trolls. Yeah, let's
not go down there where there's things eating

trolls! Why don't we just--

ORION: In the water?

SAM: Yeah!

MATT: Yeah. In the giant water pool in the
bottom.

LAURA: Wait, but we're gonna have to go down
eventually, so.

LIAM: Maybe.

SAM: Why?

LAURA: Okay.

SAM: Why do we have to go down there, there's
nothing that we need down there!

ORION: But across the way is a 25-man battle with
a huge, nasty boss.

SAM: There's seven of us and one of us is Grog!

LAURA: Well, everybody keeps saying that
everything is deeper and deeper, so I think we're

gonna have to go--

MARISHA: Yeah.

LAURA: -- deep down. Eventually.

MARISHA: I agree with Vex on this one.

LIAM: Well, hold on.

SAM: Deep into the tunnels.

LIAM: All those assholes are still standing on the
edge across there. Do we have-- we've flown out of

a falling tower before, we were all able to do it,
can we just fly up and

over those shitheads and go towards the tunnel?

ORION: Not with the eye of that mind flayer.

LAURA: Yeah. It can grab us.

MARISHA: Yeah, look what it did to you!

ORION: I don't trust it.

LAURA: Exactly.

LIAM: Can't we go 150 feet in the air, and--

LAURA: The tunnel doesn't go that high.

MARISHA: I think you were at least 150 feet across
that bridge when he did that to you.

LAURA: Yeah. It can grab us from there.

SAM: We can try--

LIAM: I was on the bridge when that happened--

MATT: You were on the bridge when that happened,
you were--

LIAM: -- and fell down. I wasn't way above.

MARISHA: But the bridge was like 250 feet across,
right?

MATT: Right. You were about, loosely, 80 feet
across when it got you.

LIAM: When it got me.

ORION: So its range is probably like 100 feet.

LIAM: And you said it's 150-ish feet in here,
though, to the ceiling?

MATT: To the ceiling it's about 150 feet, yeah.

LIAM: We can go--

LAURA: But the tunnel, oh--

TALIESIN: They have ranged weapons as well.

LAURA: (quietly) I think we should go down!

SAM: But what is down there?

TRAVIS: If we don't find out.

LAURA: Kima!

TRAVIS: You can drop me like a depth charge.

SAM: But there's no sign of anything intelligent
down there, other than something that's eating

trolls underwater. It could be just giant whales
down there! We have no idea! There's no sign of

humans at all! It's lava and death animals!

LAURA: Maybe, okay. If I go down there--

ORION: There's more like tunnels, that go
further--

LAURA: -- and look in one of the tunnels--

MARISHA: Tunnels that go deeper!

LAURA: -- can I look in one of the tunnels and see
if I find tracks? If I do, can we go that way?

SAM: How're you gonna go in the tunnels?

LAURA: I've got a flying carpet!

SAM: There's lava!

LAURA: There's tunnels that don't have lava
flowing into them.

SAM: If you burn--

MARISHA: And I can control water for at least an
hour.

ORION: There's, so, down there, there's a big pool
of water--

MARISHA: It lasts a while.

ORION: -- a tunnel going towards the mind flayer
side, with no lava--

LAURA: Exactly!

ORION: -- and then there's another cave with
lava--

LAURA: There is a tunnel that we can walk in.

ORION: -- that we can go, going away from him.

TALIESIN: Let's see if there's anything resembling
tracks--

LAURA: Yes!

MARISHA: I'll go with Vex that-a-way. I can cool
lava as we go.

LAURA: Please, Scanlan, let me look for tracks.
Please?

SAM: Tracks in a river?

LAURA: Tracks in a tunnel.

SAM: It's not that kind of a tunnel!

LAURA: It is!

SAM: There's water flowing in it!

MATT: There is, on-- Okay. In a giant cavern,
there is, towards the side where you guys kind of

entered, underneath where you first came in--

LAURA: Yes.

MATT: -- there is a descending, large tunnel, of
which there are a series of lava flows that kind

of pool into one river of lava that covers half of
that path down--

LAURA: Okay.

LIAM: In the direction of goblin town.

MATT: Correct.

LAURA: Okay.

MATT: Towards the other side, the--

LIAM: The Cthulhu side.

MATT: The cavern ends and there is a waterfall
pouring out of the side of the wall--

SAM: Can't go in there.

MATT: -- that just kind of flows down--

SAM: Oh, so there's a cavern opening?

MATT: No, no. There is a-- there-- well, there is
essentially a hole where water is pouring out of.

SAM: Can't go in there.

LAURA: Oh.

MARISHA: We can go in there!

TALIESIN: But we can go in the one with lava.

SAM: There's water pouring out of it!

MARISHA: I can make that stop happening.

SAM: But what would we find in a tunnel with water
pouring out of it?

It's not like anything lives up there!

MARISHA: I'm just-- I would much rather face
random beasts who are just random beasts, than

mind flayers who can suck my brain out.

TALIESIN: There would be no random beasts, though,
it's just nothing but plumbing.

LIAM: Yes, but Kima did not fall prey to random
beasts, she fell prey to these shits.

LAURA: All right, fine! Let's do whatever you guys
want to do.

MARISHA: I think-- I don't think a boss battle-- I
don't think we can fight this guy and win!

TRAVIS: Vote. Vote. For fuck's sake, vote. Put it
to a vote.

LIAM: Vote, yes.

SAM: All right. All in favor of going to the
duergar village and facing the giant fucker.

LIAM: Up and over, up and over!

SAM: Or up and over. Or at least getting past it.
That direction. That's four of us.

TRAVIS: That's four.

SAM: All in favor of going into the lava flows, to
find something.

LAURA: Water holes!

LIAM: Water holes or fire holes?

MARISHA: Water holes!

SAM: Mm. Mm.

MARISHA: Tiberius, you haven't voted!

ORION: A Draconian does not vote.

TRAVIS: What are you, Switzerland? C'mon.

LAURA: It's four against us anyway.

MARISHA: A Draconian-- you come from a political
family!

LAURA: We gotta go that way.

ORION: Well, I don't vote. I don't believe in our
system. Anyway, that's none of your business.

SAM: Are you a communist?

(all laugh)

ORION: I don't know what that means!

LIAM: Now. Tiberius can fly, Keyleth is an eagle
who can carry a gnome, and maybe my sister?

LAURA: Ugh, no.

LIAM: And that leaves Percy and Grog and I on the
flying carpet. Can it hold our weight? Let's give

it a little test?

LAURA: And Trinket!

MARISHA: Okay, well, if this doesn't work, we're
going to the tunnel.

MATT: The flying carpet can't carry Grog on his
own.

LAURA: No, then I can't carry Grog.

TALIESIN: You can, on the other hand, use--

MARISHA: Can't-- wait, wait, wait. Why can't, why
can't Vex and I just, at least,

go check it out before we do this?

LIAM: You lost the vote, Keyleth. You lost the
vote.

MARISHA: (sighs)

LAURA: I think we should go.

LIAM: Feather Fall--

MARISHA: Let's do it! Fuck it!

LAURA: Going!

MARISHA: They don't control us!

LAURA: We're going.

MARISHA: Let's do it. We're going.

MATT: All right, So, what, you ladies hop on the
flying carpet?

LAURA & MARISHA: Yes.

LIAM: The fellowship has broken.

MATT: (laughs) So, as you guys are discussing
this--

SAM: Wait, you're stealing our flying carpet?

(all laugh)

MATT: The two ladies have leaped on the flying
carpet--

MARISHA: We're just checking it out! We're coming
back! We're coming back.

LAURA: We're coming back!

ORION: Throw a red one! Throw a red one.

MARISHA: Just wait ten god damn minutes.

MATT: They shout, as they disappear, into the
darkness below the cavern.

LIAM: The mind flayer isn't on pause!

LAURA: Okay, I could, I have, wait! I have a--

ORION: That was gonna go right in my mouth!

LAURA: I have a lantern.

MATT: Okay.

LAURA: Yeah. Cause I have a dungeoneering kit.

TALIESIN: Oh, cool! Yellow.

MATT: All right. So you pull out your lantern, as
the two of you are going down towards the water--

LAURA: Part the water!

MATT: -- the rest of you kind of stand at the edge
of the crevasse going, 'Uh...'

ORION: I follow. I follow.

LAURA: Part the water!

MARISHA: I take the river flow, where the water's
flow is coming out of this waterfall--

LIAM: Meanwhile the mind flayer's saying,
(gravelly voice) 'I haven't got all day.'

MARISHA: -- and I reverse it.

MATT: All right. So as you guys float down--

ORION: I follow.

MATT: -- the two trolls that were missing-- the
ogre is not anywhere to be seen.

TRAVIS: Fly, you fools!

LIAM: (laughs)

MATT: -- there's just a slight ripple in the
water's surface.

LAURA: We don't wanna land, we just wanna go
towards the tunnel.

MATT: Right. As you staunch the water supply of
this waterfall, it just kind of holds it in place,

with enough of a force that the water coming out
is being balanced by the force you're putting back

on it, it's just kind of holding it there.

LAURA: Can you lower the water, so we can fly--

MATT: However, as the water vanishes, beneath
where the waterfall was, you can see an actual

small tunnel that's carved into the rock--

LAURA: Fuck all y'all bitches!

TALIESIN: Whoa. (laughs)

LIAM: Well, wanna go down?

LAURA: Let's go in there!

TRAVIS: That doesn't do anything yet! We don't
know!

LAURA: Let's go into the tunnel.

SAM: Meanwhile, back up top, I'm saying, they're
not gonna find anything.

They're not gonna find any tunnels.

(all laugh)

TRAVIS: Yeah, I'm agreeing with Scanlan, and I am
mooning off the cliff's face.

LAURA: So I'm stealthing, let's stealth? Let's be
very quiet.

MARISHA: Okay.

ORION: Hold on.

MATT: All right.

LAURA: Can you turn into an animal?

ORION: I fly back up to tell them what's going
on.

MARISHA: Oh, I can!

I go into a black panther form.

MATT: Okay.

LIAM: Scanlan, remember when we had women in this
party?

LAURA: Okay, and I stealth.

SAM: (laughs)

MATT: Okay, both of you guys roll stealth.

MARISHA: Panthers have, like, advantage on
stealth, something like that?

MATT: They have advantage on stealth check. Yeah.

ORION: You guys are just in further then?

MARISHA: 16. 13. So 16 plus whatever--

MATT: Plus your dex.

LAURA: 15.

MARISHA: -- the dex of the panther is.

LAURA: Plus, oh.

MARISHA: No, it's whatever the dex-- it's gonna be
like--

ORION: Oh.

TALIESIN: (sings) The dex of the panther--

MARISHA: It's gonna be like 20 or something like
that.

MATT: All right. You guys move-- are you staying
on the carpet?

LAURA: No, we're like hopping down off the carpet,
and I just want to look around for tracks!

MARISHA: Plus four.

ORION: I take the carpet--

MARISHA: No, plus six.

ORION: -- and then I bring it up, while I tell
them all that stuff.

MATT: Okay, so you go back down--

LAURA: What! You took our carpet?

ORION: Oh yes, because they need it to get down
here as well.

LAURA: Oh, we're going-- okay, you guys are joining
us. All right.

ORION: I was--

MARISHA: No, we were scouting.

LAURA: I'm just looking for tracks right now,
Tiberius.

ORION: Yeah and I followed you, saw what was going
on, took your carpet,

and I'm giving it back to them.

LAURA: Oh my god.

MATT: So as you guys are--

MARISHA: You can't take our carpet, we're on the
carpet.

ORION: Oh, I thought you guys hopped off.

MATT: No, you guys stepped off the carpet, she
said, and you transformed, began stealthing in.

MARISHA: Oh, that's right. We did transform. Okay,
sure, you can take the carpet.

MATT: As you're doing that you turn around and see
Tiberius had rolled the carpet

and is currently taking it away.

LAURA: You motherfucker.

MATT: So you guys are on the bottom of this
crevasse and Tiberius disappears into the darkness.

Okay, well, go ahead and roll-- this would be
survival for tracking?

Just to get an idea for anything around you see.

LAURA: 16.

MATT: You do see some scratches into the mud of
the surface there that lead into a tunnel. You see

drag marks, you see footprints, and that's the
best you can make out at this in this point in

time. But the footprints appear to be dwarven, or
dwarf-sized in nature.

MARISHA: Can I do a nature check to see what the
scratch marks look like? If they look like any

type of beast I might recognize.

MATT: The scratch marks are across the ground, it
looks just like fingers being pulled through.

MARISHA: Any type of residue, any type of slime?

MATT: No that you can tell, no.

LAURA: Can we see where the tunnel leads?

MATT: From what you can see, there's no 
light source in there.

LAURA: We have the light, remember, when I--

MATT: So you take a lantern and put it inside. The
tunnel goes back about 25 feet and then stops.

It's just a little alcove. You see within the
tunnel a series of

skeletons or bodies that are partially decomposed.

TALIESIN: Oh. God.

MATT: And you see what looks like a pile of rags
in the corner.

TRAVIS: Go check it out.

LAURA: So we can either run or loot. What should
we do?

TRAVIS: No, go check it out, ladies.

SAM: They're not gonna find anything.

MARISHA: They're telling us not to be stupid
because we don't have support.

Should we be stupid?

TRAVIS: Grog says yes.

LAURA: Oh, I'm so scared, but okay, here's the
thing,

I remember another situation very similar to this.

ORION: It was terrible.

LAURA: And it was the lair of one of those umber 
hulks.

MARISHA: Right. Why don't we just go back maybe to
the entrance of the--

LIAM: Vex'ahlia, what is going on down there?

TRAVIS: No no no no. Be thorough.

(all laugh)

LAURA: Oh brother, I think we found the lair of the
umber hulk

TRAVIS: Are you sure?

LAURA: Oh, pretty damn sure.

MATT: It's very-- well, the actual tunnel is maybe
about five to eight feet across and it would not

be able to fit an umber hulk.

LAURA: Oh, really? Can I go along the walls very
stealthily

and see if I can find any opening, anything else?

MATT: As you step inside and put your hands
across the walls--

TALIESIN and LAURA: Oh God. Oh.

MATT: --what you do notice is, the walls are
solid. This appears to have been carved out over time.

And as you move in, you begin to see the rags, and
the pile of rags is less a pile of rags and more

some sort of humanoid curled up in on the inside.
Unconscious, asleep, or dead. Not moving.

MARISHA: What is she-- what do they look like?

MATT: You can't tell from here. It's just like
kind of curled over in the corner.

TRAVIS: Go in there.

TALIESIN: I'd like to roll a save against smugness
really quickly. Can I save against smugness? I

feel a wave of smugness in here.

MATT: I think you might. You're not saved against
smugness, Percy.

LAURA: Keyleth, I think you should turn into an
eagle. Can she turn into

something big enough that can carry me?

MATT: She can. Yeah. A giant eagle, I believe you
can.

LAURA: What if you turn into something big enough
that it can carry me, I hop on your back and we

throw something at it? And then fly away.

(all laugh)

MATT: While you guys are having this conversation,
'cause you're talking to each other--

LAURA: Fuck. We were talking really quietly.

MATT: -- the thing in the corner kind of rouses
and shoots up out of sudden fear movement, looking

about. You see, dressed in rags-- you guys are
seeing this for the first time, but it's familiar.

Smooth head, purplish and blue in color, a series
of tentacles in its mouth. A giant scar drawn

across one of its eyes, and it looks filthy, and
it looks desperate. And just looks at the two of

you and you hear a sudden voice in your minds.

LAURA: Oh fuck!

MATT: No movement, just conversation, saying, 
"What, who are you?"

MARISHA: I drop to my knees and I look at him and
just say, it's okay, we're friends.

MATT: He puts up a hand like this and you see
there's a flicker of arcane energy and a barrier

appears between you and this creature. And just
looks.

MARISHA: I take my Druidcraft and I just make a
little flower.

LAURA: Oh my God.

(all laugh)

MARISHA: And there's a pretty little tulip and I
lay it at the edge of the barrier.

LIAM: (Gollum voice) Nasty.

MATT: Make a persuasion check.

(all laugh)

MATT: With disadvantage.

MARISHA: With disadvantage? Okay. Nine.

MATT: Okay, nine total?

LAURA: Oh no.

MARISHA: I'm not a very charismatic person.

MATT: It holds its place, and the voice again hits
your mind and says,

"How did you find me? What is your purpose here?"

ORION: I fly back down.

TRAVIS: No, no, no!

LAURA: We don't mean to disturb you, great sire.

MATT: "You will die if you try anything."

LAURA: We're not going to!

MATT: "I will not fall here, I will not die
here."

LAURA: We mean to help you! We mean to find our
way out, and find our friend. That's all.

MARISHA: We don't want to die either.

LAURA: Please. Who did this to you? We can help
you.

MARISHA: Let's not die together.

MATT: You can see as you get a better look at it,
it definitely has a large scar across part of its

face, and it looks to be wearing remnants of a
robe similar to what Scanlan was describing.

However, it is tattered, it's dirtied, sullied by
the elements and god knows what other liquids. It

also has this strange kind of metallic skull cap
that's currently placed around its head.

And it just, "Leave me in peace, then, or give me
a reason not to slay you where you stand."

LIAM: (whispers) Revenge.

LAURA: We can help you get revenge against your
brethren who did this to you.

MATT: There's a slight change in mood, you just
feel. "Revenge?"

LAURA: Yes.

MATT: Make a persuasion check.

TRAVIS: Roll the shit out of that new dice.

MARISHA: Come on, Vex.

LAURA: 19?

ORION: Yes!

MATT: The barrier flickers and dissipates. It
reaches over and grabs what looks like a gnarled

stick. Pulls itself up onto its legs, now what
looked like a small minuscule creature is now,

even in his terrible hunched form, is standing
extremely tall, like scraping the top of this

maybe eight-foot-tall ceiling in this tunnel.

MARISHA: (meekly) Hi.

MATT: It takes a step forward and says,

"Revenge? You speak of revenge. This is a 
language I wish to know very well."

MARISHA: You found the right motley crew.

(all laugh)

LAURA: Should we bring it with us?

MARISHA: Would you like to come with us?

LAURA: To leave this cavern?

MARISHA: Meet our friends? We have friends.

MATT: It kind of gives you both a look and you
hear this-- There's a slight lurching to it as it

gives this horrible guttural-- (low chuckle)
"Friends? That's a word I haven't heard in a long

"time. Not one I take to heart, but allies, in
time, that I can understand.

"Take me to your allies."

LAURA: Tiberius?

ORION: Mm, yes?

LAURA: Maybe you can send that fucking carpet back
down.

(all laugh)

ORION: I'll be right there, I was trying to
get the rest of the party here, but everyone's

being buttholes. I fly back down with the carpet.

MATT: You come down with the carpet. At the
edge of this opening, you see Keyleth, you see

Vex, both emerge with a horrible tentacle-faced
gnarled being with a staff coming out with them.

ORION: Hello?

MARISHA: Tiberius--

ORION: Oh, did you make a friend?

MARISHA: We did! See! Friends!

ORION: Wonderful!

MARISHA: This is-- What's your name?

MATT: Looks about to you, then looks at Tiberius
and says, ignoring your question,

"You have persuasion to the arcane."

ORION: Yes, I'm a sorcerer! I do all kinds of fun
things with the arcane!

MATT: "We shall talk."

ORION: Very good, I'm always willing to learn.
Seems you are very powerful.

MATT: "My name... Clarota."

ALL: Clarota.

MARISHA: Can we call you Clarence for short?

MATT: "No!"

(all laugh)

MARISHA: Okay! Clar-ota

ALL: Clarota.

LIAM: Sounds Spanish.

LAURA: Please, join us on the carpet.

SAM: Can he fit on the carpet?

LIAM: He is very thin.

LAURA: She can fly.

MARISHA: I'll fly.

ORION: The rest of our allies are up.

MATT: He carefully steps on the carpet, once again
like its tentacles are (slithering noises).

LAURA: I keep a distance.

MATT: Moving around, its mouth and its eyes are
constantly darting, it looks extremely nervous and

almost like a cornered animal that's just barely
being coaxed onto this journey. You see with each

step it takes there a slight flicker of arcane
energy at the tip of its fingers, like it's just

prepared for anything to go terribly
wrong. It steps onto the carpet and goes,

"Take me to your allies."

ORION: Ah yes, we have wonderful allies!

MARISHA: You can even maybe call them friends,
even?

LAURA: Not just yet!

MATT: It crosses its legs and sits on the carpet,
holding its staff to its chest on the far corner

staring at all of you and says, "Go. Now."

LAURA: Hold on tight.

MATT: You guys make your way up to the top,
eventually you see the carpet (whoosh) over the

edge of the crevasse, come down to a rest, as your
party has now

brought with you the stuff of nightmares.

(all laugh)

SAM: That is the thing I saw in the village!

LAURA: Hold on! Hold on!

TRAVIS: What is that? Oh my god!

MATT: At which point, it's leapt off at this
point, hovering about and you can see this crackle

of fire in its hand and it goes, (panicked
noises)

LAURA: No! No!

ORION: I'm standing between them, like, it's okay!
These are the allies we speak of!

LAURA: Peace, friends! We are ourselves!

ORION: Grog, don't do anything!

LAURA: We are not controlled.

ORION: Don't use a whip, Scanlan, sing a
friendly song as he is our friend-- ally. To the

guy. Ally. He is-- He's in a little spot of
trouble and we are going to

help him get revenge, or something of the sort.

SAM: He's a friend? Help--

ORION: He prefers--

MATT: "Ally."

LAURA: Ally.

SAM: Ally.

MARISHA: Ally.

SAM: Ally.

TALIESIN: Ally?

TRAVIS: What's on your head?

MATT: He kind of gives you this keen look of,
huh,

the least person I expected to ask a question.

(all laugh)

MATT: It kind of hobbles forward with its gnarled
staff, and says, "I was cast out from my hive. I

"was cursed with the mark of the arcane. My people
see that as an ill omen. I was discarded, left to die."

LAURA: Let's destroy your hive.

MATT: "No."

LAURA: No?

MATT: "You see, the hive is sick. The mind that
keeps us safe is no longer its own."

ORION: Oh?

MATT: "One, an alien one, has come and taken the
mind hostage, it has taken my people as its own

"playthings. I was able to escape its mental
grasp."

It reaches up and taps the metal on its head.

LAURA: Oh! Tinfoil hat!

MARISHA and TALIESIN: Magneto helmet!

MARISHA: This is the guy we've needed this whole
time!

MATT: "My people will not so easily escape its
grasp,

"they are now under the control of this creature."

MARISHA: So if we did it--

SAM: If we find this creature, we might be able to
free your hive as well.

MATT: "That would be why I wish to have your
alliance."

LAURA: Yes.

MATT: "Help me free our hivemind, free my
people."

TRAVIS: (whispers) Sense motive.

LAURA: Oh yeah, can we sense motive on him?

MATT: (laughs) You definitely can!

LAURA: Oh gosh.

TRAVIS: I would do it, but--

MARISHA: We should also have him help us in
your--

MATT: I would put this in a group sense motive
right now.

TALIESIN: Yeah! All right!

MATT: Everyone roll!

ORION: I rolled 14.

LAURA: I rolled-- what do we add to it?

MATT: Sense motive in this would be your insight,
sorry. Pathfinder to Fifth Edition!

LAURA: Insight? 24.

MARISHA: 18?

TRAVIS: 16.

ORION: 14.

TALIESIN: Natural one.

LAURA: (laughs) Four?

LIAM: Four.

TRAVIS: 16!

SAM: 13.

TRAVIS: (happy scream) 16!

(all laugh)

MATT: Okay!

SAM: You're a people person!

MATT: Through your intense grasping this
creature's disposition, best you can, as alien and

unfamiliar as its mannerisms and speech and
interests may be, you get the feeling that it's

speaking out of desperation and it's speaking out
of genuine interest. You've piqued it with the hint

of revenge, you've piqued it with the idea of
alliance as opposed to being alone. You get the

feeling that it speaks the truth. It genuinely is
asking for your help in freeing its people from

whatever is influencing their current actions.

LAURA: Clarota... (laughs)

SAM: What's his name?

LAURA: Cla-ro-ta?

MATT: Clarota.

SAM: Can we just call him Clarence?

(all laugh)

LIAM: (Jimmy Stewart voice) Clarence, Clarence!

TALIESIN: Clara. It could be a she.

LAURA: We are very interested in being allies with
you. Might we have your word that upon defeating

this creature, we will be safe?

SAM: And as a symbol of our dedication to you, I'd
love to play you just a little bit of a song that

might heal some of those wounds and scrapes that
you seem to have all over your body.

MATT: He gives you the dirtiest look you've ever
received.

TRAVIS: (whispers) It was because of the arcane!

SAM: It's a pretty good song!

MATT: Make a persuasion check.

(all laugh)

LIAM: Come on, Burt Reynolds!

SAM: Hm. Ooh! 17.

(all laugh)

MATT: He takes a sudden step forward towards you,
his tentacles-- (slithering noises)

LAURA: Ew, ugh!

MATT: "Play this song."

TRAVIS: Break out the--

LAURA: It better be good!

SAM: (sings) When I get that feeling, I want
Clarota healing. Clarota healing is something

that's good for you. Ooh ooh ooh. (sings
embellished melisma)

LAURA: Clarota's dancing, I can see it!

MATT: Make a persuasion check-- no, a performance
check.

SAM: A performance check!

18!

MATT: 18.

(all laugh)

MATT: In spite of itself, it stands there still
glaring at you, but out of the corner of your eye

you swear you see its toe tapping.

(all laugh)

MATT: It then kind of-- its tentacles withdraw in
such a way that gets you kind of off-put and the

song comes to a halt. "I'd not heard a song. I
shall call upon you for more in the future."

LAURA: Oh!

SAM: There's many more where that came from!

MATT: "Now we talk about how we can kill
K'varn."

LAURA: K'varn!

LAURA and SAM: Yes!

MARISHA: Yes! Let's talk about that.

SAM: End scene!

MATT: And that's where we're going to go ahead and
end it for today, guys.

(all cheer)

MATT: That went very interestingly! We'll pick up
from that point.

MARISHA: Sorry we had to rebel, you guys.

LAURA: Yeah sorry about that, you guys. Sorry!

MARISHA: Sorry! It was for a good cause!

LIAM: Thank you for rebelling, and staking out on
your own!

MATT: You've acquired for the moment a very
curious ally. Yeah, this will be an interesting

branching point for next week.

LAURA: Oh my gosh.

TRAVIS: We should get some damn hats.

LAURA: I know! We should get him to make us hats!

MARISHA: We definitely need one for Grog. We have
to get him to make us hats for Grog.

TRAVIS: Why me?

MATT: (laughs) I hope you guys enjoyed that! No
combat. You guys avoided quite a few possibilities

for battle and that makes for an interesting
dynamic. So well done!

You've killed a crap ton of duergar.

LIAM: Trolls.

MATT: And a couple trolls and an ogre, by sending
them off a cliff!

It was a pretty eventful evening!

MARISHA: Yeah.

MATT: So yeah, so guys, thank you so much for
watching! Also, as a reminder, there is Dwarven

Forge that's been doing an amazing kickstarter for
its next set. I was a supporter for all of Dwarven

Forge's kickstarters and I'm looking forward to
being able to break out some of those dungeon

tiles in this game in the near future. But if you
haven't checked it out yet, I recommend it! Go and

see if you can back it. Those guys are awesome,
the quality of their work is great! All of you DMs

out there that wanna run some seriously legit
dungeon setups for your miniatures and battle

circumstances, it's highly recommended. So go
check that out. I know I've already backed it, so

come join me! And (evil voice) one of us, one of
us! Anyway, does anyone else have something they

wanna talk about for the evening, guys?

ZAC: I do.

MATT: Zac! What's up, buddy?

ZAC: Thanks for tuning in, guys. I wanted to bring
up International Tabletop Day.

MATT: Yes! Yes! Let's do that!

ZAC: It's coming up on April 11th. We're going to
be live-streaming Tabletop Day from here in this

studio. Probably not as complicated a setup as
this, but similar of a set up. For those of you

that have not registered yet for International
Tabletop Day, go to the website tabletopday.com or

org, I could be saying it wrong, the chat room
will let you know.

MARISHA: Just google it.

ZAC: Google it!

MATT: Angelfire.tabletopday.com

ZAC: I knew you were testing my knowledge! You're
saying it wrong, you're saying it wrong. I'm not

an actor, dammit! So go check that out. We're
still looking for a lot of countries to have

representation, so if you're overseas, go to the
website, let your local retailers know about it,

sign up, and get in on the fun! It's going to be a
blast. We're going to have this whole building

stacked to the brim with people! Board games, live
streaming the whole thing.

Get in on it. It's going to be a lot of fun!

MATT: Yeah, do it!

ZAC: So I think that's pretty much it, thanks so
much guys.

MATT: Yeah, no worries, I think next week we're
gonna try and do a Q&A after the game. So we'll

stay for an hour or more after.

ZAC: Subs only!

MATT: Subs only! You get to hang out.

ZAC: Subs only, so if you want to ask questions
next week after the show,

make sure you subscribe.

MATT: Yes! Do it!

ZAC: Do it. Yeah, that's pretty much it, man.

MATT: Hell yeah, awesome! Well, thanks
again, guys, for tuning in to Critical Role.

Spread the love, tell your friends about it, all
come back and join in the story, and we'll have

more fun next week, so. See you next Thursday.

(all cheer)

ZAC: Tune in tomorrow for So You Don't Have To,
where Becca and Hector play the worst games they

can find so you don't have to. And then Gather
your Party, where we play board games with our

friends, and it's gonna be a lot of fun.

MATT: Hell yeah.

ZAC: All right, I'm gonna-- you guys can talk
amongst yourselves, I gotta run. I'm the only

person here so I'm gonna run back, turn off the
stream. Yeah, yeah, I'm fine.

MATT: (laughs) This guy, this guy. Guys, thanks
again, have a wonderful night, we'll see you soon.