MATT: Hello everyone, welcome to the fifth episode
of Critical Role! Before we start and get into the

videos for our initial intro, let me go over a
couple of things for the evening. First off, we're

shooting to get to 1,500 subscribers by this
evening, and as soon as we get there, we're giving

out a promo kit that's worth about $250, which is
awesome. We'll all go ahead and sign it at the end

of the day and get it out to you as well. Also,
Tabletop Day is coming up this Saturday, and a few

of us will be showing up during the stream as well
and any of you guys playing your own tabletop

games at home, or whatever the case may be, if you
go to the website and register, for each person

that registers, we're giving away a boardgame to
the charity Big Brothers and Big Sisters, so

that's a really, really cool thing that you guys
should get involved with. That's this Saturday, at

International Tabletop Day, and also, we received
a present apparently from the audience.

TRAVIS: A present?

MATT: That I get to open.

LIAM: Vat eez zis present?

[static]

MATT: I don't know vat zis present eez, but now I
get to open zis.

ALL: Ooh!

MATT: This is for all of us, apparently.

TALIESIN: What kind of sack is that?

MATT: It is a big-- oh, it is a gigantic sack.

ORION: Ooh, I love gigantic sacks

MATT: Oh my god guys, this is, this is amazing!

LAURA: There's a card on it.

MATT: All right.

LAURA: On the other side.

MATT: There's a card? Oh snap. By the power of
#TeamNoStream, you have the power.

By Negihama, thank you Negihama.

ALL: Thank you Negihama!

MATT: That's amazing, as we now have for the
group, a castle Greyskull.

ALL: Huzzah! Yay!

MATT: So during the intro break we're going to go
ahead and open this and find a place for it

nearby, 'cause this is now representative of the
keep that the players have waiting for them at

Emon once they get out of this horrible mess.
Anyway guys, welcome to Critical Role,

let's get into those intros, shall we?

ASHLEY: Pike grew up in the outskirts of town,
near the Bramblewood. Her ancestors were a family

of deep gnomes with quite an unfavorable
reputation. Thievery, destruction, and trickery

left them with the curse of the last name of
Trickfoot. Sarenrae, the goddess of healing and

redemption, had other plans for Pike's
great-great-grandfather Wilhand, who left his

family at a young age after a dream-- a dream that
changed the course of the Trickfoot family.

Wilhand devoted his life to Sarenrae, and pledged
from then on that him and his family would live a

life of service and devotion. As a child, Pike
seemed to have an affinity to heal. Whether it was

animals, people, or even flowers, she felt she had
a purpose in making things whole that had once

been broken. She studied and learned the ways to
heal through divine magic. She lived a peaceful

life, quiet and simple, until one day, Wilhand was
captured and almost killed by a group of goliath

barbarians. One of the goliaths took a stand
against the murder of the innocent gnome, and he

himself was beaten, bloodied, and left for dead,
abandoned by his herd. Wilhand went to Pike for

help. She prayed, and healed this barbarian as
best she could, bringing him back to life. When he

awoke, she discovered his name was Grog Strongjaw.
After that, they were the best of friends, a

rather unlikely pair. Little did she know that in
a few years' time, Grog would soon return the

favor and bring her back from the clutches of
death. After being killed in battle, Pike felt

angry. She wanted to be stronger, so that it would
never happen again. She spent four months at sea,

training with the men and women aboard a ship
called The Broken Howl. Gripping her holy symbol

in one hand, and her morningstar in the other,
this time, Pike is ready.

TRAVIS: Right, listen up! If you have ale, then
you have a friend in Grog Strongjaw. A goliath of

towering height and size, this barbarian has an
appetite for the two great loves in his life:

combat, women, and ale. Wait. Easily the brains of
the group, Grog is often consulted for his vast

knowledge of shapes, colors, and shiny things.
Also ale. In his early years, armed with his

two-handed greataxe, Grog often enjoyed proving
his might amongst the ranks of his family's

wandering herd. But after coming upon an
unsuspecting elderly gnome in the woods, he

objected to the killing of such an innocent life.
A creature of impulse, Grog felt only pity for

this terrified little thing. His disobedience cost
him dearly. Beaten bloody and banished by the herd

leader, his uncle Kevdak, Grog was abandoned and
left to die. Exiled from his herd, it was then

that the relative of the very gnome he fought to
save, saved him. It was the kindness of a gnome

cleric named Pike that healed Grog, bringing him
back from death's edge. And they have remained

close friends ever since. Most nights, Grog can be
found challenging entire taverns to wrestling

matches! Or accompanying Scanlan to the nearest
house where you pay for lady favors. Also ale.

MARISHA: A first impression of Keyleth would leave
you with little information on the half-elven

druid. You might even think that her social
awkwardness due to her sheltered upbringing is

kind of sweet. Of course, it would be unwise to
underestimate her based on first impressions.

Under that unintimidating petite frame is a
vicious beast waiting to be unleashed, whose

natural powers have made even the fiercest of
champions pee their pants. Literally. Born to the

Air tribe of the Ashari people, Keyleth was raised
with a deep love of nature and the elemental

magics. It is her people's inherent duty to
protect the delicate areas in Tal'Dorei where the

four elemental planes begin to bleed with this
realm. Since she was a little girl, she had quite

a knack for air manipulation and beast shaping
abilities. Well, if you consider kittens and

flying squirrels to be little beasts. Which I do.
Anyways, it wasn't long before the headmaster of

the tribe, her father, Korren, realized her true
prodigious abilities and she was inveterated to

succeed him as the next headmaster. Just like
that, her jovial childhood was stripped and

replaced with endless spell memorization,
teachings from ancient traditions, and exceedingly

high expectations. Every druid leader-to-be must
embark on a journey to seek out the sister tribes

in order to introduce and establish respect
amongst the fellow headmasters. They call this the

Aramente, or Noble Odyssey. When her father felt
she was ready, he set her on the path to truly

discovering herself. Not knowing when, or if, she
will ever return. As she hiked down the mountain

towards Stillben, she meditated on the task ahead.
Part of the Aramente is proving yourself a strong

warrior, a valiant protector, and a wise and
compassionate leader. With this knowledge, one

thought plays in repeat in her mind: is she even
worthy?

TALIESIN: Percy was the third of seven
children, born to a noble family who lived far to

the north, in the ancient castle of Whitestone.
With so many siblings to share the burdens of

lordship, Percy turned his attentions to the
sciences, engineering, and naturalism. One day, a

mysterious couple, named Lord and Lady Briarwood,
came to court. During a feast held in their honor,

the Briarwoods violently took control of the
castle, killing or imprisoning everyone who would

stand in their way. Percy awoke chained in the
dungeon, only to be freed by his younger sister.

Together they fled, chased by the Briarwoods' men.
As they ran, Percy's sister took several arrows to

the chest and fell. Percy kept running, eventually
jumping into a freezing river and floating

unconscious to freedom. He did not remember waking
up on a fishing boat. He barely remembered the

next two years, as he slowly made his way as far
south as possible. Then one night, Percy had a

dream. A roaring cloud of smoke offered him
vengeance against those who destroyed his family.

When he awoke, Percy began to design his first
gun. (gunshot)

SAM: Oh, you haven't heard of Scanlan Shorthalt?
Well, gird your loins, ladies, because he has his

eye on you. A talented musician, master of
disguise, and dashingly handsome in his own mind,

Scanlan sings songs almost as much as he sings his
own praises. Born a poor gnome, Scanlan used his

endless charm and soaring tenor voice to croon for
coin and support his single mother. One day, he

was discovered by a half-orc promoter, and joined
Dr. Dranzel's Spectacular Traveling Troupe, where

he learned the ways of the world and honed his
skills as a bard extraordinaire. A loner much of

his life, Scanlan has never quite come to terms
with the violent death of his mother at the hands

of a goblin invasion. While his years on the road
provided many, shall we say, educational

experiences with the opposite sex, deep down
Scanlan yearns for the one thing he's never known:

the true love of a fellow gnome. Still, Scanlan
considers himself a lover first, performer second,

and fighter distant third. On the battlefield,
he'll support his allies, but rarely draws blood

unless it's to protect fellow gnome, Pike. Count
on Scanlan for a hearty laugh, a rollicking song,

and a twinkle in his eye that melts hearts and
makes the females swoon.

ORION: Greetings and salutations. I am Tiberius
Stormwind. I hail from a town called Ty'rex,

located in the heart of Draconia, born from a
politically respected family. At the age of 15, I

succeeded in passing the Sorcerer's Rite, showing
prodigy-like control of my magic. The judges and

the Draconian High Council were amazed at how
powerful my spells were for how long I had been

training. At 20 years old, I was the youngest
appointed member of the Magic Guild in Draconian

history. For the next few years, I almost went mad
from the malaise of being a guild member, as it's

rather boring. However, one day I happened upon a
chamber, unused for quite some time. In the room

were stacks of books and maps of the surrounding
cities and areas around the known world. For

months I would frequent the chamber, and learned
of artifacts from legend. After a long period of

research, I made a list of artifacts that caught
my eye. I brought these findings to the High

Council and was told that all of the information
in the chamber I had stumbled upon was either

believed to be fiction, or unsolvable mysteries,
and hence were lost forever. I found those answers

to be unacceptable. A year later, I devised a ruse
and managed to convince the city council to lend

support in me leaving Draconia on a mission of
peace and diplomacy for the surrounding kingdoms,

going from town to town and making friends and
allies, in and for the name of Draconia. Being a

red dragonborn, I had quite the task on my hands
in that respect, but it was exactly what I needed

so I could explore the world and find these
artifacts, as I felt the truth was out there. Some

may describe me as buffoonish, but I say poppycock
to all that. I am much sharper than most give me

credit for. I just don't pay attention to things
sometimes. I've also been known to be rather

cunning, loyal, happy-go-lucky, and well,
dangerous. I can't help but show my true scales

every now and then. But overall, I think I'm quite
friendly for a dragonborn.

LIAM: Never entirely welcome in the company of
elves or men, Vax'ildan learned at a young age to

skip past formality, preferring instead to invite
himself in your door. Along with twin sister

Vex'ahlia, Vax was born by a chance encounter
between elven royalty and human peasantry. Raised

by their mother in their early years, the twins
were eventually sent off to their father in the

elven capital of Syngorn, but their cool reception
among the elves there never warmed, and their time

in the capital didn't last. The siblings stole
away one autumn night and set out on the open

road. After a few years of wandering, they
eventually decided to return to their mother, and

journeyed back to the lands of their youth. But
instead of finding their childhood home, they

returned to a pile of rubble. Their mother was
gone, their home burned to ash. Pressing the

townspeople for answers, they learned of the day
the dragon came. With their ties all severed,

Vax'ildan and his sister set out to find their
fortune together in Tal'Dorei. An outsider since

birth, Vax quickly learned to solve life's
challenges in his own particular way, often by

sidestepping them entirely. And when his knack for
circumventing adversity isn't enough, the way of

blades the elves schooled him in more than makes
up the difference.

LAURA: Like so many half-elves, Vex'ahlia has
spent most of her life suffering the cool

reception of a people who don't fully accept her.
Born of a human mother and an elven father who

only later in life took an interest in their
existence, Vex'ahlia and her twin brother

Vax'ildan quickly realized the only people they
could truly rely on in this world were each other.

It was at the age of ten when the two were taken
from their mother, and brought to live in Syngorn,

the isolated elven city for which their father was
an ambassador. He quietly took them in, but always

kept an icy distance, and after too many years of
disdainful looks, the pair decided to leave his

indifference behind, and set out on their own. Vax
took to the cities, stealing small trinkets and

learning the ways of the thief, while Vex kept to
the woods. She preferred the isolation. Always the

keen observer, she learned to hunt and to track,
to spy and to shoot. And through a series of

fateful events, earned herself a companion in the
form of a bear, her own stolen Trinket, to fight

alongside her and protect her fiercely. Also, he
is adorable and gives expert massages.

MATT: Welcome back, guys. So we finally have
Pike's video finished, so I hope you got to enjoy

that. As a heads-up, too, unfortunately we're
going to be down one Scanlan due to work, but

that's okay, the bard will be in our hearts this
evening, and you're welcome to tweet at him

angrily to make sure he makes the next session.

LAURA: Yeah.

MATT: So, without further ado, let's go and kick
into the recap. So, the party has initially been

sent down on a mission by the arcanist Allura
Vysoren in search of a halfling paladin who has

gone missing, named Lady Kima of Vord. A folk hero
and a very respected individual, she went on a

vision quest and apparently went alone into
Kraghammer seeking some sort of great evil that

was festering beneath the city, and hasn't been
seen for weeks and weeks. The party was hired by

her to go and try to find her whereabouts and
hopefully bring her back safely. Since traversing

and meeting individuals in Kraghammer, they then
spearheaded into the Greyspine Mines where

apparently these monstrosities have been burbling
out time and time again over the past few weeks.

Pushing down, they had encountered umber hulks,
they managed to inquire some duergar, which,

apparently there's a lot of them down here.
Duergar being an ashy-skinned, subterranean dark,

evil dwarf-type offshoot. One of which had with it
a brain-type quadruped that managed to Brain Spike

Grog and send him catatonic for a short time.
They, wandering through the caverns, discovered

there was a duergar war camp across the way from--
across this large chasm that was currently being

run by a general duergar alongside what appeared
to be, and what they've now discovered to be, a

mind flayer or an illithid. They managed to, upon
looking deeper into this cavern, finding hidden

behind a waterfall, thanks to the druid and the
ranger, completely stealing from the rest of the

group their flying carpet, made a very tenuous
relationship and alignment with another mind

flayer, apparently cast out of his own society,
searching to find a way to both get revenge and

find his way back into his colony of people. And
his name was Clarota, lovingly called Clarence by

the group, probably much to his own chagrin. After
which they decided to go ahead and try to extract

information from this duergar general, and stop
this war camp from preparing itself for battle and

attack, seemingly, on Kraghammer in the near
future. Through a strange, crazy plan

they came up with, they managed to fly undetected
over via flying carpet and eagle, and floating

sorcerer, over the entire war camp, made a Metal
Gear run into the center of their main barracks--

(all laugh)

MATT: -- threw a bucket of goblin shit into the
face of the one mind flayer--

ASHLEY: Whoops.

MATT: -- after which, Vax bisected it, pretty
much, in one surprise round of attacks that led to

a large battle in the center of this building,
partway through which ground began to rumble. And

then digging a forth from underneath, a bulette, a
gargantuan armored, burrowing creature that was

hungry and very dangerous that then made the
battle that much more intense. A heavy,

blood-filled battle later, involved with Percy
getting his hand caught and firing his gun into the gullet

of the beast, eventually it had its armor pulled
apart and was defeated by the party. The remnants

of the duergar army inside of this building have
been destroyed, aside from a few stragglers who

have laid their weapons down, and the general now
lies beaten, on his knees before the rest of the

party. And that is where we pick up and begin. So,
as you all are catching your breath, breathing

heavily, as the adrenaline slowly leaves the
system. Looking around this building, with the

large hole still glaring through the roof.

ORION: I'm waving through it.

MATT: Tiberius is waving through it.

LAURA: Oh, you're still up top.

MATT: The general's on the ground, warhammer at
his side, blackened armor still kind of sizzling

with the arcane energy from his temporary
Banishment via Scanlan. He sits there with this

kind of gnarled, brackish beard, looking about the
rest of you with these wild kind of white-coated

eyes. "So you found your way in. What's your
purpose? What do you want from me?"

LIAM: Well, Vax walks right up to him and walks
behind him and grabs him by the hair, and right

back to this position. Let's have a talk.

LAURA: Oh.

LIAM: Would you care to have a chat?

LAURA: Of course I would, thank you.

MATT: "If you want blood, take it. It's all you're
getting from me."

TRAVIS: Okay, kill him.

ALL: No, wait!

ORION: Hold on a second, ask the question.

LAURA: We don't want your blood.

ORION: What are we asking?

LAURA: We're looking for a halfling. Have you seen
one?

MATT: "I don't know what you're talking about."

LAURA: A female halfling. She came down here.

MATT: "Well, she wouldn't have gotten far if she
did. Not with my people."

LIAM: I take my dagger and stick it in about a
centimeter and say, your master is gone, it's just

you and your friends here now, I think it's in
your best interest to talk. You could walk away

from here. You don't have to die if you can play
nicely.

ORION: And believe me when I tell you he usually
kills everybody.

He doesn't give that offer very often.

(all laugh)

MATT: Go ahead and make an intimidation roll with
advantage.

TRAVIS: First roll of the night. First roll of the
night.

ORION: Yeah!

LIAM: Natural 20!

(all laugh and cheer)

MATT: That's a way to start.

MARISHA: The first one tonight!

LAURA: That's the way!

TRAVIS: Probably those eight miles you rode.

ORION: Shush!

MATT: As you pull the blade to his throat, he
chuckles deeply against the strain. "Your halfling

"lass was foolish. We took her. We delivered her to
King Murghol as a present. If she lives, she's

"probably ruined and broken deep within the
dungeons of Emberhold.

"You're welcome to go for her there."

LIAM: Who's this king of yours?

LAURA: King what?

MARISHA: Murgholt?

MATT: "Murghol."

ORION: Which way should we head?

MATT: "Ooh, down, probably."

ORION: I mean, is there any particular shortcuts
or less running into

your kind along the way, I suppose?

MATT: "I highly doubt it." He spits in your
direction.

ORION: Oh! Prestidigitation. And I catch it and
throw it back into his face.

MARISHA: Can I do an insight check to see if he's
lying about that?

MATT: Go for it.

TALIESIN: I think we have some prisoners to free
or something as well.

LAURA: Yes.

MARISHA: 22.

MATT: He does not appear to be lying about his
interpretation of her, apparently she is where he

is. As to where her current state is, you don't
know, but he seems to have a very, very made-up

mind as to her possibility of her being alive
still.

MARISHA: What about a secret path that we can
maybe get through to avoid some of these people?

Was kind of wondering if he's lying.

MATT: You can press him that information even
harder.

MARISHA: Hey guys, we should press him for
information about this passage.

LIAM: Just a couple of more questions.

LAURA: Can I start speaking to him in Underdark?

MATT: Of course.

LAURA: And I ask him--

MARISHA: That's hot.

LAURA: Yep, it's an awesome language. Tell me
about the hidden passages. I know there are some.

I am good tonight, you guys

TRAVIS: What does Underdark sound like, by the
way?

(all laugh)

LAURA: It sounds kind of like--

TALIESIN: Parseltongue?

LIAM: It's like Pig Latin.

LAURA: (speaking Undercommon)

TRAVIS: Mm, no!

LIAM: Ere-way are the idden-hay assages-pay?

MATT: It's kind of reminiscent of Black Speech
from the Tolkien universe, that has that guttural

(speaking Black Speech) very, very deep.

LAURA: Oh right, that.

ALL: (speaking Black Speech)

MATT: A little bit like a whispering darkness to
it. As she speaks this tongue, it catches a lot of

you off guard, you've not heard her use this
tongue until this point.

Make an intimidation check.

ASHLEY: (gasps) Vex, what are you doing? What is
this coming out of your mouth?

TRAVIS: That sounds real pretty.

LAURA: Right, I have my papers.

MATT: Get your sheet ready.

LAURA: Oh noes, hold on, hold on.

MATT: You got your paper today? Lovely.

LIAM: She's bonafide.

LAURA: 18.

MATT: 18. He says, "No passages to the stronghold,
but there is a way in. Aside from the front. Good

"luck getting up in there from that point."

ASHLEY: Is it through the lake?

MATT: "Yes, through the lake. Deep below, you'll
find a tunnel. This tunnel will lead you to a

"subterranean passage straight to the stronghold."

LAURA: Can we check to make sure he's not
untruthful?

MATT: Make an insight.

LAURA: (groans) Okay. 16?

MATT: No, he's bullshitting through his teeth.

LAURA: Oh, okay.

LIAM: Vex'ahlia?

MATT: Hey, he seemed honest about the passage but
dishonest about the-- he's basically following her

lead. "Uh-huh."

LAURA: You're lying.

MATT: "Perhaps."

LAURA: Tell us true, where is it?

MATT: "If I tell you, will you let me live?"

TRAVIS: Ooh. Well.

TALIESIN: I think that's very reasonable.

LAURA: I think that's reasonable. We'll--

MATT: "I'm essentially--"

TALIESIN: We will not kill you.

LAURA: I think we can--

TRAVIS: We can lock him up. And then kill him.

LIAM: We'll leave you alive.

LAURA: We'll leave you alive.

LIAM: Yes.

MATT: "Don't just leave me alive. Give me a chance
to walk from this building,

"on my own, arms intact."

TRAVIS: No.

MATT: "And I'll give you the secret entrance to
Emberhold itself,

"leading you straight within the throne room."

ORION: Well, that's a good thing.

TALIESIN: So we have to leave you alive, and let
you leave this building intact?

MATT: "Correct."

TRAVIS: I go over and pick up his warhammer and
say, you may-- maybe-- leave.

But I get to keep this as a souvenir.

TALIESIN: I actually think this is an appropriate
moment to play with a bit of banditry. I say we

take everything from him and he can make his way
out all on his own.

TRAVIS: I like that idea.

LAURA: Yeah--

MARISHA: Ooh, that's fun.

LAURA: -- all his clothes, everything.

TRAVIS: Butt naked.

LIAM: And you can advise--

MARISHA: Wait, wait, hang on.

ORION: As is his undergarments on for--

TRAVIS: Why?

ORION: I don't care to see that.

MARISHA: Why don't we take him with us? Just in
casies--

MATT: At which point, a cold, clammy hand touches
your shoulder and pulls you aside as--

MARISHA: Ew.

MATT: -- a partially hooded Clarota steps forward
and says, "I'll attempt to read his surface

"thoughts. If he tries to keep it from me, I'll
know."

TRAVIS: Smart, smart!

MATT: As he steps forward, he puts one hand in front of him
and his eyes gleam with a sickly green hue. You

can see the general tips his head back for a
second and begins twitching an eye. Sweat begins

to bead around his brow as Clarota takes another
step forward, tensing his hand once more, his head

beginning to bow forward with an intensity, a
force of focus towards his direction. You can now

see the general, "Let me live. Let me go and I'll
tell you. This isn't necessary. I'm willing to

"give you the information." You can see a trickle
of blood

begin to pour out of one of his nostrils.

TRAVIS: Yeah.

ORION: That's a mind flayer.

LAURA: What do we do? I think we should stop him.
Should we stop him?

LIAM: Clarota.

LAURA: Wait.

LIAM: Does he know anything about K'varn?

MATT: "Let me see." And the mind flayer pushes
once more into his brain. You see a twitch to his

face as his head kind of lolls back and rolls for
a second, resisting as best he can. But his will

is currently being beaten by the defeat of the
battle, the lack of his compatriot mind flayer,

and the sheer intensity of Clarota now focused on
vengeance and returning to his people. The blood

beings to stream not just from his nostrils, but
from his ears as well. As Clarota releases him for

a second, he goes, "He has not seen K'varn, but
knows a bit of his nature. I cannot read it, but

we could press for more information."

LIAM: I walk up--

LAURA: I think we should just ask him.

LIAM: -- next to Clarota, push the dwarf against
the wall, and say, our friend here is not as

patient as I am. We want to know about this
K'varn, and we want you and all your men, all your

little mates here, to throw your weapons into the
chasm, you can go fuck off, but we want to know

everything. And this is your last chance. Right
now, right here. Talk.

TRAVIS: And you have to get naked.

LAURA: (whispers) And you have to get naked.

LIAM: That's correct.

ORION: Will you stop with the naked? Grog--

TRAVIS: What?

TALIESIN: I'm with you on that.

TRAVIS: Thank you.

ASHLEY: Yeah, me too.

MARISHA: It's starting to become a thing now. I'm
just saying.

MATT: "K'varn was responsible for forging the
alliance. For centuries and generations, his

"people and mine killed and fought. It wasn't until
K'varn came that we decided to work together for a

"common cause. Expansion, unification, dominion
over this land and these mountains. Divided, we

"were weak, petty, greedy. With K'varn leading us,
we have purpose, we have growth. We could take

"what we'd like, and I'm but one dwarf. If I fall
over here,

"many more will take over where I fell."

TALIESIN: Well, we can see that's obviously worked
out really well for you. I think that I'm

satisfied, are you satisfied?

LAURA: What kind of creature is K'varn?

LIAM: What is K'varn?

MATT: "I have not seen K'varn personally."

LAURA: But you've heard rumors, though?

MATT: "What I know of K'varn-- a being of immense
intelligence. A creature that needs not walk this

"earth, one that does not touch the land that it
traverses. I know it sees all, it smiles from a

"toothy maw and laughs, laughs in the darkness.
Protruding from its forehead, one nasty, gnarled

"black horn, terrible source of its dark power.
That is what's beneath here."

LAURA: Is he telling the truth?

MATT: Insight check.

LIAM: Insight check for me as well.

TALIESIN: Would I recognize this creature he's
describing?

MATT: Go ahead and make a nature check. Or arcana,
either one.

MARISHA: Can I assist him?

TALIESIN: Or arcana? 14.

MARISHA: Can I do a nature check?

MATT: This'll be more for your own personal
knowledge, probably not.

But you can make one yourself.

MARISHA: Well, that's what I'm saying.

TALIESIN: 14.

MARISHA: 'Cause you're doing arcana?

TALIESIN: I did arcana.

ORION: A d20 roll.

MARISHA: I'm doing nature. 29, nature.

MATT: All right, so. No natural creature you've
ever heard has this type of essence to it,

having a single black horn.

LIAM: It's clearly a narwhal.

MATT: It is.

LIAM: It's a sentient narwhal.

MATT: It's an awful, awful narwhal. Way to spoil
the story, Liam.

MARISHA: Demon narwhal.

ASHLEY: (singsong) Well, maybe we should go.

MATT: Gnashing teeth, black horn, very
intelligent. That doesn't seem to be anything from

nature itself. From your experience, there are
different entities, but usually there are multiple

horns. Singular, demonic beings that would have
extreme intelligence, sharp teeth, horns, and

you've had brief brushes in the past with demonic
entities that seems to run in a similar vein, but

nothing in particular is creeping into mind. It's
going to be difficult for you to specifically come

up with this, with what little information you
currently have. Yeah.

ORION: Well, I'm satisfied.

LIAM: I am, too.

LAURA: Maybe we should let him go.

LIAM: Why don't you strip?

ORION: I agree.

TRAVIS: Do you wanna handcuff him?

ASHLEY: Take off your clothes!

LAURA: Yeah, let's take his-- We take Grog's
handcuffs out of his bag.

MATT: "Let me-- That was not the deal! You leave
me, unspoiled, on my life,

"and I tell you the way into Emberhold."

LAURA: Well, tell us!

ORION: Take the hammer. That's rough on him. Leave
his armor on.

LAURA: You haven't told us yet, have you?

LIAM: We already told you your weapons are ours.

TALIESIN: In fact, we'll be keeping your weapons,
your armor, and I believe, your pride.

MARISHA: Yes.

LAURA: But your life is yours.

TALIESIN: You may even outrun the dwarves we're
about to set free.

ORION and TRAVIS: Oh good, yeah.

TRAVIS: Nice! Percy's fucked-up tonight, I like
it.

TALIESIN: I'm in a mood.

MATT: "Emberhold."

LIAM: He tried to make a book out of someone's
flesh once.

LAURA: Wait, wait. He's telling us, shut up.

LIAM: Yes, sorry.

MATT: "Emberhold is the fortress of our people,
built to resist assault from all sides."

LIAM: Shite.

MATT: "We've an army, hiding about the outskirts
of it. Kind of like an army you might have in one

"of yours, if you think you have a chance. However,
since I don't think that's what you carry, your

"best bet is on the left side of the fortress.
There are two streams of molten rock that pour

"down the side. The smaller of those two streams
covers a secret tunnel."

LIAM: Insight check. Is he full of shit? I
rolled-- Oh, nothing too hot at all. Never mind,

forget it. Forget I said anything.

MATT: All right. He seems to be forthright and
honest with his information. "However, that'll

"take you through the lava. That's up to you. It's
meant to open from the inside. A trapdoor-like

"mechanism that spreads the actual flow. From the
outside, well, good luck.

"I've done my side of the bargain. Let me free."

LIAM: Stepping behind, I take my knife, and I cut
his belt loose and let his pants fall,

and I give him a little nudge.

MATT: Okay.

LAURA: You're free to go. Not toward your
stronghold, but towards the surface.

MATT: So his belt falls, changepurse, and
everything.

He is wearing full plate black armor--

LIAM: Sure.

MATT: So his trousers do not plummet.

LIAM: Aw, that's a shame.

TRAVIS: Can't we have Scanlan turn him into a
porpoise?

MATT: He picks up his warhammer.

TRAVIS: I don't think so. No, that's mine. As a
token to remember you by.

MATT: "Unspoiled was the deal."

LIAM: Wasn't the deal.

TRAVIS: No, it's great. You can really argue all
you want to,

or I'll just smash your fucking head in.

LIAM: Wasn't the deal!

TALIESIN: Alive was the deal.

LIAM: We said you were alive, your weapons were
ours. What, have you got shit in your ears?

ORION: I thought you meant you wouldn't get dirty,
like you know, not spoiled.

Which I was totally fine with.

MATT: Takes a couple of steps forward towards you,
holding the warhammer out.

LIAM: Your skull is unspoiled.

MATT: Suddenly, he turns completely invisible,
vanishes from sight.

LAURA: My perception's really high, can I try to
find him?

LIAM: Yeah, we can. Perception check.

TRAVIS: You dicks.

MATT: You hear (footsteps running).

LIAM: Perception check.

LAURA: Wait, no!

ORION: He's gone.

LAURA: Mother bitch.

MARISHA: It's fine.

LIAM: 18 for me.

MARISHA: Just let him go, it's all he's got.

ASHLEY: We should throw something.

TRAVIS: (high-pitched) I want the hammer!

MARISHA: It's all he's got right now. He's naked,
and now he's invisible running through a cavern.

LAURA: He's not naked!

MATT: At this point--

LIAM: I'm gonna attack him.

MATT: Before you have the opportunity--

LIAM: Yeah?

MATT: -- he becomes visible again, about 20 feet
out, gone down the stairs

and towards the front door and he just--

LIAM: I'm throwing a dagger at him.

MARISHA: Oh look.

MATT: Go for it.

LIAM: Yeah.

TRAVIS: And I'm throwing my ax at him with the
chain of returning as well.

LIAM: Oh good, that's great. 28 for me.

ORION: Oh shit.

MATT: All right, that hits.

LIAM: Yeah, sure it does. Dick!

MATT: It's not a Sneak Attack, just damage.

LIAM: Yeah, that's fine.

MATT: You chuck your ax at him.

TRAVIS: 17.

MARISHA: And I just yell, sorry!

MATT: Okay.

TRAVIS: 17.

LIAM: Ten for me.

MATT: All right, so go ahead and roll damage for
both of you.

LIAM: Ten.

MATT: He is there, standing in place with his arms
locked like this.

LAURA: Oh, Clarota.

TRAVIS: 15.

MATT: 15 damage?

TRAVIS: Yeah.

MATT: All righty.

TRAVIS: Should've left the hammer.

LIAM: Ten.

MATT: Ten damage, all right. There's now a
significant amount of blood beginning to pool down

his feet, as he's standing there. As he is frozen
in place, Clarota just kinda steps up to the front

of him, grabs his cheeks and pulls his head in
towards him, as his tendrils slowly wrap around

his head. You can see them meet at the back of his
skull, and with this horrible crunching sound, you

see his head shudder, as his limbs go limp.

LIAM: (sings) Do do do do doo, I'm lovin' it.

(all laugh)

MATT: A few moments of this horrible slurping
sound--

LAURA: Oh no.

MATT: -- and you hear this dull, sickening, hollow
(suction) sound. The tentacles release, Clarota

releases his grip from his head, and the captain
falls onto his back,

a giant bloodied hole in the center of his skull.

ASHLEY: He ate his brain?

TRAVIS: I guess you should've left the hammer,
shouldn't you?

TALIESIN: Some people are terrible losers, just
really terrible.

ORION: I'm going to loot the body.

LAURA: Yeah, well. Yeah, we definitely do that.

TRAVIS: I would like to pick up the hammer.

MARISHA: This is a good lesson, to no one else
that's watching.

ORION: Clarota, that was incredible. Well done!

LAURA: Clarota--

ASHLEY: Clarota, I am a fan.

MARISHA: No one is watching this valuable lesson.

TALIESIN: Do not be an oathbreaker.

MARISHA: To not be an oathbreaker.

TALIESIN: Know when you've lost your clothes.

LAURA: Was that actually, like, a meal for you?

MATT: As you're looking, you can see there's that
kind of weird purplish crimson around his

tendrils, as he kinda wipes it off with his hands,
and goes,

"It's enough to sustain me a while. I 
was getting hungry."

LAURA: Well. Better him than us, I say.

TRAVIS: Right. Me, I'm just an appetizer.

ORION: Yes, indeed.

LAURA: Loot the body!

MATT: Yes, so you loot the body. You find amongst
all the duergar bodies here, as you're quickly

jumping around and grabbing, it's hard to count
the exact amount, but you're looking at somewhere

in the neighbourhood of about five to six hundred
gold pieces. You'll have to check later.

LAURA: Ooh!

LIAM: Mm-hm.

LAURA: I write that down.

ORION: He was a general.

MATT: A series of black iron weapons. None of them
seem to, at a quick glance, have any sort of

magical value. The blackened plate armor on the
duergar itself does radiate a magical essence, as

does the warhammer he was holding.

LAURA: Is it just him wearing the black plate
armor--

MATT: Yeah.

LAURA: -- or any of the other bodies wearing it,
too?

MATT: There are a few that are wearing black
plate, but they're not equivalent enchanted.

LAURA: We should take that and put it in the bag
of holding, so we can sneak in if we want to.

TRAVIS: Okay.

LIAM: Tiberius, can you tell us anything about
these things?

LAURA: How many sets were there?

MATT: From what is in here, that would be 11 sets,
total.

ORION: Yes, that hammer is amazing, obviously,
because we saw it in action.

I'd say Grog should have it.

LAURA: 11 sets of armor!

MATT: Because there were also sets that were on
the rack at the very front.

LAURA: Nice!

ASHLEY: Hey.

MARISHA: Is Grog about to get a new weapon?

TRAVIS: 11 sets of armor, okay.

ORION: And I'll do an arcana check, right? An
arcana check on the stuff?

MATT: An arcana check, yeah.

TALIESIN: Laura, you got a grapple arrow, last I
gave you, by the way.

LAURA: I did?

ORION: 23.

TALIESIN: Yeah, I got it-- you now have a trap
arrow.

LAURA: A grappler arrow?

TALIESIN: Yeah, you fire it and it prones
somebody.

LAURA: Seriously? That's so cool, thank you!

MATT: There you go, sir.

TALIESIN: I'm gonna Hawkeye you out at some
point.

LAURA: Oh my gosh.

TALIESIN: I know.

TRAVIS: Can you do a magical check on the-- Oh,
he's got it.

ORION: I did.

MATT: So, as Tiberius is looking over the
equipment,

kind of poring through his arcane knowledge.

ORION: Oh, oh, ooh! I think Pike and Grog would
benefit from these, most definitely. Here.

LAURA: What is it? What was it?

LIAM: There's not any kind of dark magic about the
armor, is there?

ORION: I mean, it's dark in color.

LIAM: Yes, that's fine.

ORION: But it's, you know, your standard arcana
magic.

ASHLEY: Clarota, so when you eat their brains, do
you also get their thoughts, maybe?

TRAVIS: Ooh! The heavy plate armor has resistance
to fire damage.

ASHLEY: Or it's just-- it's gone after that.

TRAVIS: The warhammer--

LIAM: Sh!

MATT: "There are residual memories, thoughts. It's
delicious." And you can see, there's this almost

rapturous look in his face you haven't seen
before. For a moment, Clarota looks a little

younger, a little stronger, a little more
dangerous. And you're put off a little bit by it.

TRAVIS: Clarota is Dracula.

MATT: But there's kind of this momentary kind of
relishing in the moment and--

MARISHA: Do we need to give you a moment alone? We
can leave.

MATT: "He speaks the truth about the path into the
Emberhold."

LAURA: All right.

LIAM: So, he spoke of some sort of trap door
that's easy to open from within,

but not from outside, correct?

MARISHA: It was hidden by a lava flow.

LAURA: Yes, two lava flows--

MATT: The smaller of the two.

LAURA: -- the smaller of the two.

LIAM: The smaller of the two.

MATT: On the left side.

MARISHA: On the left side of the keep.

LAURA: Yes. Can I ask a question?

MATT: Yes?

TRAVIS: I'm raising my hand.

LAURA: Are there a lot of other soldiers still in
the camp, or did we--

MATT: Oh, there are plenty of soldiers still in
the camp.

LIAM: Yeah, we--

LAURA: Ooh.

MATT: You stealthed into the barracks.

LAURA: Oh shit! We should've kept him alive, you
guys! Okay, okay, okay. Yes, Grog?

LIAM: Well, he was about to walk out the door and
cause mayhem.

ORION: That's true.

MARISHA: That's true. He was gonna alert
everybody.

TRAVIS: Can I harvest any natural armor from the
bulette? The kitty?

LAURA: Ooh!

MATT: You can certainly try. There's plates that
have been broken and cracked.

You can try and start cleaving away at it.

TRAVIS: All right, yes, I start butchering, or
something, the bulette.

MATT: Okay, you start-- It's really tough hide.
You know, 'cause you tried to cut through before

and you managed to make a few marks. It takes you
a few minutes. You manage to get, let's say, about

three saucer-shaped pieces of armor out of it.

TRAVIS: All right.

MATT: You could definitely get more, but then you
start hearing bells going off.

LAURA and TRAVIS: Shit.

ORION: What do I see? I'm still on the roof.

LAURA: Okay, we should all-- Can we all--

MATT: You don't see anything yet. You just hear
bells starting to go off in the city.

LAURA: Okay, we should all put on black armor.
Does that matter?

LIAM: We should just get out of here. Keyleth, can
you fucking eagle up and let's go.

MATT: You start hearing horns.

LAURA: We need to free those dwarves.

MARISHA: Eagle up?

MATT: Big horns. You start seeing torches being
lit.

LAURA: Stealth, stealth. And get out. Go stealth
and get out.

LIAM: We need to get out, now.

ORION: Oh guys, the jig is up!

LAURA: I shoot my grapple thing and go up out of
the ceiling.

LIAM: Tiberius.

ORION: What?

LIAM: Cast Fly on this fucker right here, we need
to get out of here.

We just need to get out the way we came in.

MARISHA: I cast Pass Without A Trace. Everyone
stand near me. And I'll turn into an eagle

and I scoop up the gnomes.

MATT: Okay, what's the radius on Pass Without A
Trace?

LIAM: Like a thousand yards.

MARISHA: Like a hundred yards.

MATT: Four miles, it's all I got.

LAURA: But I take the dust of tracelessness out of
the bag of holding

and I sprinkle it around the room.

MATT: Okay.

LAURA: Can we grapple up out from the ceiling?

MATT: Well, the arrow that you have that he made,
it's essentially an arrow that bursts into a

tanglefoot bag. When it bursts, it grapples
whoever's there,

it's not like grappling an arrow.

TALIESIN: Yeah, it's not like a string arrow,
although I'll build that.

LAURA: Oh, I thought it was like a grappling--

TALIESIN: It's a trip arrow.

LAURA: Oh, that's cool, okay.

MARISHA: A 30-foot radius.

TALIESIN: I'll make you a grappling-- I didn't
follow that though.

I'll make you a grappling arrow.

LAURA: I have a grappling hook. Yeah, we should
grapple out.

MATT: 30-foot radius, okay, so you could just--

MARISHA: Just, hug me.

MATT: -- barely get Tiberius in there if you--

MARISHA: Stay close.

TRAVIS: You can go on my back.

MATT: On the platform, so yeah.

ASHLEY: Okay, I'm gonna jump on Grog's back.

TRAVIS: Yeah, and I pick up Scanlan under my arm.

LAURA: We have a regular grappling hook, we'll
just get up out of the--

TALIESIN: We have a flying carpet.

ASHLEY: And hold onto some straps.

MATT: All right, so Scanlan-- Both gnomes get
grabbed by Keyleth as--

ORION: And we're all on the carpet?

LIAM: The carpet's away, but this guy is flying?

ORION: Yes.

LIAM: Flying Grog.

TRAVIS: I am? I thought we were all-- Okay.

LIAM: No, you can't go on the carpet. You're too
heavy.

LAURA: What are we doing?

LIAM: We're going up. Straight up.

LAURA: Up and out. Can we stealth, while we do
it?

MATT: So, you guys, right now, as you're carrying
the two gnomes,

all of you except for Grog are on the carpet, 
correct?

TRAVIS: Yep, I'm flying.

MATT: You're flying. Okay, so how many spells do
you have left on that? One left? All right.

LAURA: Where's Trinket?

TALIESIN: Trinket's back on the other side.

MATT: Trinket's back on the other side. Trinket
didn't come with you to the battle, because there

was nobody to get Trinket across.

LAURA: Oh, he's just on the other side by himself,
all lonely?

MATT: Yeah, I know.

LIAM: He's in goblin town.

MATT: Eh, you weren't here.

(all laugh)

MATT: You weren't here to protect your bear.

LAURA: That's so terrible.

ASHLEY: He's safe over there?

MATT: Hopefully.

ASHLEY: Oh Trinket!

TRAVIS: He's been raging.

MATT: Everyone, make a stealth check. With a plus
ten additional modifier

thanks to Keyleth's spell.

TRAVIS: Oh, awesome. That helped.

ORION: 20.

ASHLEY: Oh, 20!

MARISHA: 18.

TRAVIS: Natural? Oh.

LAURA: Nice. Ooh, natural 20!

TALIESIN: 19.

TRAVIS: 19.

ASHLEY: 20.

LAURA and TRAVIS: Natural 20.

LAURA: 31 for me.

LIAM: 29.

MATT: All right, so you all take off. As you do,
you can see now, probably close to 30 or 40

duergar have now begun rushing towards the
barracks in the center of that main open area

where that wooden platform was, where Scanlan
originally saw a mind flayer. As you rush up, you

hear (speaks Undercommon). You hear it as
Undercommon, screaming, "There! Above, look!"

LAURA: Oh, they saw us.

ASHLEY: Maybe you should scream, like, no, they
went the other way!

LIAM: Just keep going up, up, up.

MATT: A stream of javelins comes firing up in your
direction.

LAURA: How did they see us? I thought we were
stealthed.

ORION: I see where it's coming and I shoot a
Fireball.

MATT: Okay.

LIAM: That's good, that's good.

MARISHA: Wait, what are you doing?

MATT: Okay, so there's a volley of javelins and a
Fireball streaking past. You'll be able to get ten

of them in that Fireball blast, go ahead and roll
for damage on that. However, for those that rolled

less than 20 on stealth, each of you are getting
three javelins each to you. So that's you two, and

Grog. What'd you roll again?

MARISHA: Less than 20.

ORION: 22.

MATT: Okay, yeah. So you three. So three javelins
against you, miss you entirely. Percy. Actually,

one more against you, Keyleth. That one does hit.
You take 14 points of piercing damage as the

javelin just gleans off the side of your giant
eagle torso.

MARISHA: (eagle noises)

MATT: Percy, that's a 21, an 18, and a 20. So you
take three javelins.

24 points of piercing damage.

TALIESIN: 24 points?

MATT: Yeah, 24 points total, as three javelins--
Two strike you off the shoulders and one actually

embeds itself partway into your waist and you have
to pull it out,

and probably dug a good six, seven inches in.

ASHLEY: What are you at?

TALIESIN: I'm at 15.

ASHLEY: 15?

ORION: By the way, 41 points of fire damage.

TALIESIN: I was already really low.

TRAVIS: Take me instead.

LAURA: We haven't healed him yet.

ASHLEY: Wait, we healed the other game. Even with
that?

TALIESIN: Oh, did I fully heal?

MATT: All right, the three that are going towards
Grog--

TRAVIS: Yeah, come on.

MATT: That-- Natural 20. A 17, what's your AC?

ASHLEY: No, it was like 24.

TRAVIS: 18.

ASHLEY: 24 points.

MATT: That one misses, and the last one-- Yeah,
two natural 20s.

TALIESIN: Yeah.

ASHLEY: That was 24.

MATT: Not even joking.

LIAM: Double crits, oh.

MATT: All right, so--

LAURA: Two crits against you?

LIAM: Good thing you got a thousand hit points.

TRAVIS: (high-pitched) Oh no.

LIAM: That's the point of a meat tank.

MATT: You take a total of 36 points of piercing
damage, Grog.

ASHLEY: And he still has more hitpoints than we
do.

MATT: Yeah, probably.

MARISHA: Ouchies.

MATT: Oh, barbarian.

LIAM: If Scanlan were here, he'd moon and blind
all.

LAURA: He is here, technically.

MATT: He is here, Scanlan's holding on tight as--

LIAM: He's here, he's watching.

TALIESIN: Scanlan's peeing, peeing down.

MATT: However, as the javelins strike all you
guys, moments later there's a gargantuan

explosion, and there's a flash of reddish light
from below. A giant fiery blooming explosion

bursts into the center of that area. You can see
duergar thrown left and right. You manage to take

out about 12 of them in that one blast.

ORION: Yes!

LAURA: Nice!

LIAM: Yeah, home slice.

MATT: You guys continue, cresting over the top.
You can now see more and more are starting to

gather, the bells are going off, the horns are
blowing hard. You can see a bunch of them are now

running over to what looks like some of this siege
equipment they had constructed--

MARISHA and LAURA: Oh.

MATT: Which includes a few large ballistae.

LIAM: I think we should friggin' dive bomb towards
the far tunnel past this war camp.

LAURA: No, but Trinket!

LIAM: Is fine, he's hiding out. They don't know
he's here.

TRAVIS: Leave him.

TALIESIN: He'll be fine.

ORION: I'm not concerned with the bear right now!

LIAM: We're going to dive. Yes, dive bomb, dive
bomb!

TALIESIN: The bear can take care of himself.

LIAM: I take hold of the front of the carpet and
steer it up and over, along the roof and then down

towards the tunnel. I'm steering the carpet.

MATT: Okay. You guys are coming down. You
basically shot up, curved around--

LAURA: We shouldn't go down.

MATT: And you're going backwards towards the
barracks. As you do, another volley of--

LAURA: We got to free those dwarves, y'all.

MATT: Another volley comes to the guys who were
under-stealthed.

LIAM: We don't have to. That seems complicated.

ORION: Who's not stealthed?

MATT: However, there is one attack less each
because of the duergar that you had taken out. So,

against Keyleth, one hits. You take 12 points of
piercing damage.

MARISHA: I am no longer an eagle.

TALIESIN: Oh my God.

TRAVIS: Oh shit, really?

MATT: All right, a two and a one versus Percy.

MARISHA: Yeah.

TRAVIS: Are you paying attention?

ORION: Wait, what?

TRAVIS: She's not an eagle anymore.

MATT: All right, so.

LAURA: Keyleth isn't a--

MARISHA: I hit zero hit points as an eagle.

ASHLEY: Wait, what are you again?

LAURA: What happened?

LIAM: She's not an eagle and she's falling with
the gnomes.

MATT: Keyleth's form shifts back into that of
Keyleth. You guys are about 80 feet up.

MARISHA: Help!

LAURA: Okay, okay!

ASHLEY: Can I--

MATT: At which point, both Scanlan and Pike go
into a free fall along with Keyleth.

ASHLEY: Wait, can I--

LAURA: No, no, she was on Grog, she was--

ORION: Are we under them? Are we under them?

LIAM: I don't know, are we?

ASHLEY: No, I was on her.

MATT: No, you guys are about parallel. You guys
were moving together.

LIAM: Parallel?

ORION: Go under them!

LAURA: Yeah, we dive under them.

LIAM: Dive, dive, dive, dive!

ORION: I cast Glacial Blast and I create a bridge
that scoops them up, right under them.

As we dive right under them.

LIAM: Party trick.

MATT: Okay, you guys are out in the middle of the
open cavern. There's no place to connect the

bridge, so you're essentially creating a giant
ice--

LIAM and LAURA: Chunk.

MATT: Chunk right beneath them. Which is also now
in freefall.

ORION: Huh? No!

MATT: Yes.

LIAM: Even wizards make mistakes.

ORION: Damn it!

MATT: So as you guys try and swoop underneath as
they're plummeting-- You're riding this, go ahead

and make an acrobatics check.

LIAM: Okay.

ORION: No, I didn't think of that.

MARISHA: I don't know what to do.

LAURA: Can we try to catch-- can we try to-- what
do I have?

ASHLEY: Wait, can I--

TRAVIS: Are we over the war camp, or are we over
the--

LIAM: 25.

LAURA: Over the war camp.

MATT: All right, so you swoop underneath. A sudden
motion, as you're trying to cast. Go ahead and

roll a concentration check on this.

MARISHA: Oh, come on, Tiberius.

TALIESIN: Oh boy.

MARISHA: Oh, save my life, again, Tiberius.

ORION: Oh no.

LAURA: Can I try to--

MARISHA: Oh shit.

LIAM: I let go of the front of the carpet, I stick
a--

ASHLEY: Wait, wait, wait, wait, can I cast War
God's Blessing to give him a plus ten?

MATT: Unfortunately, you're falling.

ASHLEY: Fuck.

MATT: You're like (worried noise), you're just
plummeting through the air like a rock because

you're in full plate armor.

LAURA: Can I use the rope of endless twine and try
to lasso one of them?

'Cause I'm really a good shot.

ASHLEY: How far are we falling?

MATT: You have to pull it out of the bag of
holding and then turn into a lasso, that's gonna

take you a full minute, so you don't have time.

LIAM: I have a rope. I let go of the front of the
carpet, I put one end of the rope in my sister's

hand, and I jump off towards Pike, holding it
around in one hand as I go--

LAURA: Oh god.

TALIESIN: I grapple onto her to hold her down.

ASHLEY: No! No, no, no, I have so much armor.

LAURA: Okay, then you should--

MATT: All right guys, so here's what happens. In
the time this has transpired, you've rushed

underneath with the magic carpet, all of you
barely managed to hold on, as both Pike and

Scanlan and Keyleth all slam into the top of
the--

LAURA: Oh okay, except you're dangling off of it
now by a rope.

MATT: You lost your concentration, so Glacial
Blast didn't go off, thankfully.

That would've been really bad.

MARISHA: Wait, wait, we slam into the top of
what?

TALIESIN: Us.

MATT: You guys slam onto the top of the rest of
the group, in there.

LAURA: That's too many people on the carpet.

MATT: Because you lost your concentration, your
flight spell also dissipates.

Grog is now plummeting.

LAURA: Oh no!

TRAVIS: Yay!

ALL: (worried noises)

LAURA: We're gonna die!

MATT: The carpet now has too much weight and is
currently giving out.

LIAM: #savecriticalrole.

ORION: Get me close to him. I cast Featherfall on
you.

MATT: It's slowing your fall, but you guys are--
you're coming down at a very, very fast pace at an

angle over the barracks towards the back end of
the war camp.

LAURA: Oh shit.

MARISHA: Can I cast Wind Wall right underneath of
the carpet to kind of like airbend us up?

MATT: You can attempt to. Grog--

TRAVIS: I begin to fart to slow the fall.

ORION: Who needs Featherfall? I can do it in a
bunch!

MARISHA: Ahh!

MATT: Everybody, at this point--

LIAM: But wait, Dungeon Master?

MATT: Yes.

LIAM: Re-explain what's happening. So the carpet
is falling, not as fast as it would, but--

MATT: Essentially, you guys are flying beside each
other, the three that were falling, you guys

swooped underneath and caught them, however it's
too much weight to bear, the carpet's now--

LIAM: How high are we at this second?

MATT: At this second, you're about 60-70 feet up.

MARISHA: Ohh.

LIAM: And the closest building, the highest
building under us is how tall?

MARISHA: Oh, Jesus.

MATT: It's about 15 feet tall.

LIAM: Ohh.

MATT: Grog, however, goes into a full plummet. You
guys have just caught the rest of them, you've all

caught them, you're crashing down.

MARISHA: And did the Wind Wall thing work?

MATT: Go ahead and roll a concentration.

LAURA: Everybody jump up in the air!

MATT: Your constitution modifier.

MARISHA: Fucking shit. Not good. Seven.

MATT: The spell fizzles.

LIAM: Unpause. How far are we from the tunnel that
we were talking about?

MATT: From what you can see here, you're probably
about 50 to 60 feet.

LAURA: We're right over the camp, aren't we?

MATT: You're towards the back of it, thankfully,
the barracks are towards the back of it, so maybe

about 50 to 60 feet from the full tunnel.

ORION: Before where the drop is, and that's where
that bottom tunnel is down there?

MATT: Yep.

ORION: Okay.

MATT: You guys go crashing at an angle.

TALIESIN: I'm going to brace to jump. I'm bracing to roll.

LAURA: Yeah, we're all like bracing.

MARISHA: Three-point landing!

LIAM: I'm grabbing for Pike and going like this.

LAURA: I have Scanlan!

MARISHA: What's Grog doing?

ORION: Where's Grog at?

LAURA: He's falling.

LIAM: Grog's gone. Grog's down.

MATT: Grog is completely separate from you. He was
flying, and lost concentration of his spell.

Grog's like a stone.

LAURA: No, Grog!

ORION: Can I leap towards him?

TALIESIN: Off what?

MARISHA: And do what?

MATT: Off of the carpet--

ORION: Off of the carpet! Yes!

LIAM: Do what?

LAURA: You leap off of the carpet?

MATT: Go ahead and make an acrobatics check. With
a disadvantage, because you are jumping off of a

currently flimsy flying carpet to try and catch up
to him.

LAURA: Oh no.

ORION: Right now, while I'm doing this, I'm going
to cast Featherfall on myself.

TRAVIS: Wait, before, you gotta get to me first,
because it will slow you too much.

ORION: Oh. It would, wouldn't it? I thought it was
only when going down.

TRAVIS: Gotta get to me first, motherfucker.

MATT: Go for it.

ORION: Whoa. Okay.

MATT: So what's your acrobatics check? The lower
of the two.

LIAM: You fall a lot.

TRAVIS: Yeah. Big things go down.

ORION: 15 and 13.

MATT: Okay. You manage to fumble out of the
carpet, however, you are now just end-over-end

falling now off of the side of the carpet on your
own.

LIAM: This is tense.

LAURA: This is tense.

MATT: You're having a hard time even seeing Grog
now.

The world's just spinning and spinning and
spinning.

LAURA: Oh God.

TRAVIS: It's like Gravity.

MATT: You can attempt--

ORION: Now I'm going to cast Featherfall.

MATT: Go ahead, cast and roll concentration
check. What did you roll?

MARISHA: He rolled a 19. Which is good.

MATT: Okay. Featherfall gets to you just in time.
Your descent slows.

In that time, Grog has impacted.

MARISHA: Fuck!

LAURA: Oh no, Grog!

LIAM: We're gonna hit, we're gonna hit. I'm
shielding the healer.

LAURA: I'm shielding Scanlan.

MATT: So you all brace for impact. The actual
carpet's careening out of control. You can see

there's just barely the top of a building you
might be able to try and skim.

LAURA: Can we jump onto the top of the building?

MATT: This is going to be up to the one who's been
steering this whole time.

Go ahead and make an intelligence check.

LAURA: Intelligence!

LIAM: Intelligence?

MATT: Yes.

ASHLEY: Can I assist?

MATT: No.

TRAVIS: Thank God it's not me.

MARISHA: Can we do nothing and--

LIAM: Good, good, good, good. 24.

MATT: 24?

LIAM: Yeah, so I'm pretty smart.

MATT: You just managed to skim the edge, which
lessens your impact slightly, however, it does

send you all into a full end-over-end topple.

LIAM: Still holding a gnome!

MATT: Everyone. Everyone. Make an acrobatics
check.

LAURA: Oh, god. Which one to roll, which one to
roll.

MARISHA: Oh, no. What's going on with Grog?

LIAM: I guess that's what we'll find out
afterwards.

MATT: Grog's impacted. He was falling faster than
you guys were, he's six hundred pounds going into

straight freefall. You guys had a little bit of a
fall break.

MARISHA: Ah, this is going terribly! I'm failing!

ORION: Do I have to do one also?

MATT: Everyone. Oh, except for you, because you're
floating.

LIAM: Do the halflings-- Shit! Do the gnomes get
an advantage

since the half-elves are protecting them?

LAURA: Depending on how we roll?

MATT: It's based on how you guys roll, because
you're the ones who are holding onto them.

LIAM: Oh, okay.

LAURA: Welp, Scanlan. I'm sorry to let you know--

TALIESIN: No.

LIAM: Oh no!

MATT: So you got Pike?

LIAM: Yeah, I got Pike.

MATT: What'd you roll?

LIAM: 18.

MATT: Natural one.

ASHLEY: 13.

TRAVIS: 18.

TALIESIN: 23.

MARISHA: Four.

MATT: Okay, so half-damage for you.

LAURA: But I have a plus nine acrobatics! Plus
nine acrobatics!

LIAM: Doesn't matter.

LAURA: Doesn't matter on a natural crit fail.

TALIESIN: Still gonna knock me out.

MATT: Roll some fall damage here.

LAURA: I'm sorry, Scanlan!

LIAM: It's all right, I got the healer, I got the
healer.

MARISHA: It's not gonna be good.

TRAVIS: You're gonna be like an ACME cartoon and
just leave a (pff)

LAURA and LIAM: (pff)

MATT: 18 points of damage.

TALIESIN: I'm out.

MARISHA: You're out again?

LAURA: You're unconscious again?

TALIESIN: Yeah.

MATT: He didn't have a lot of hit points left.

LAURA: Oh no, we're all dead!

MARISHA: This the second time Grog's almost fallen
to his death.

MATT: 18 points of damage to you. The rest of you
all take 36 points of fall damage,

except for Grog.

LIAM: Everybody, everybody?

LAURA: Everybody? As a group, like we all failed
as a group?

MATT: Well, no, no, sorry. You succeeded, you rolled a--

LIAM: 18.

MATT: 18, so you would also take half-damage, so 
you would take 18 as well.

ASHLEY: I take--

MATT: You take half that as well, thanks to his
roll as well.

TRAVIS: I rolled an 18.

ASHLEY: Everybody in this club getting hit
points.

MATT: Right, you were in full plummet, you can
reduce the damage slightly.

TRAVIS: Well, I was very graceful on the way
down.

MATT: Yeah, you take 45 points of damage from the
impact, Grog.

MARISHA: 45?

MATT: 45 points of damage.

MARISHA: Oh.

LIAM: It was halved, so eight.

MATT: And leave a small crater from the impact.

TRAVIS: Thank you.

MARISHA: You know what, that could've been worse.

LAURA: And I take 35?

MATT: You and Scanlan both take 36, which puts
Scanlan into a negative as well, because he

wasn't-- he was not at--

LAURA: No, no! He was fully healed.

TRAVIS: Nope.

MATT: No, he wasn't.

LAURA: (Softly) Fuck.

LIAM: No, sorry, no.

MATT: So, you all tumble end over end, come to
rest.

MARISHA: We just crash-landed in a war camp.

MATT: Yeah. On the far end of it, thankfully.

MARISHA: Oh boy.

MATT: You guys can hear the bells and the horns
going in the distance. It looks like all the rest

of the folks that were stationed here moved
towards the center. You managed to arc over them,

but they're going to be here shortly.

TRAVIS: Are we near their big war machines?

MATT: No, the ballistae are on the opposite--

ORION: So we can see the ledge and that cavern
where we were, where we found the--

MATT: Well, the ledge is back in the other
direction. You guys are going towards the tunnel

on the opposite side.

LIAM: Vax is pulling up Pike onto her feet and
dragging her towards Scanlan, 'cause I know how

fucked up he was from the last battle.

ASHLEY: Where's Scanlan? How close--

MATT: Okay, you guys-- and you, you're kinda
getting up on your knees, coughing--

MARISHA: How, how--

ASHLEY: Percy's out, let's go--

LIAM: But so is Scanlan.

MATT: Percy's just face-down in the ground,
scrapes across the side of his face.

ASHLEY: Scanlan's out, too? Fuck.

LIAM: Scanlan's out, too, right?

MATT: Scanlan's also out.

TRAVIS: How about-- I'll give him a level three
potion and you go heal Scanlan.

LAURA: No, you, here, you take care of him, I'm
right next to Scanlan,

MATT: You guys are roughly about ten feet from
each other from the impact, just, you were

scattered, and then you kind of regrouped.

MARISHA: Okay. Can we see people running towards
us?

MATT: Not yet, but you assume it's only a short
period of time.

ORION: Yeah, yeah, we have some time left--

MARISHA: We don't, I don't know.

MATT: Grog, what you at?

TRAVIS: 39.

MATT: Okay.

TRAVIS: She's doing a Mass Healing--

ASHLEY: A Mass Healing Word.

MATT: Okay. You barely get yourself out of the
crater. That's gonna suck tomorrow!

MARISHA: Mass Healing Word?

LIAM: You take Scanlan, I'll take Percy.

LAURA: Okay! I'm gonna--

LIAM: Healing potions out.

MATT: As this is happening, Percy, go ahead and
make a death saving throw.

LAURA: Oh!

TRAVIS: A death saving throw?

LIAM: Sorry, here's three--

TALIESIN: Is that-- Is that just--

MATT: What did you roll?

TALIESIN: A nine.

MATT: That's a fail, so mark off one fail on your
death saving throw on your sheet.

LAURA: (gasps)

ASHLEY and LAURA: No no no no!

TRAVIS: Oh shit!

LIAM: Sorry I'm late, Percy.

MATT: Scanlan does make his.

LIAM: He's all right, he's all right, he's all
right.

I've got a healing potion and I'm pouring it--

ASHLEY: But I'm doing--

LIAM: I'm pinching Percy's nose and pouring it in
his mouth.

LAURA: And I'm pouring some down Scanlan's
throat.

MATT: Okay, all right. So both you guys pour
healing potions. That is-- those are the normal

ones? The common? The regular healing?

LIAM: I think so.

LAURA: Yeah?

MATT: 2d4 + 2. Go ahead and roll that.

LIAM: (whispers) 2d4 + 2.

TRAVIS: I'm taking a level two potion, myself.
Just--

TALIESIN: 2d4 + 2?

MATT: Okay, go for it.

LIAM: Eight. Eight for Percy.

MATT: That's four--

TALIESIN: Oh! So I'm at plus eight now?

MATT and LIAM: Yes.

LIAM: You're up.

MATT: Scanlan also comes to consciousness.

LAURA: 2d4? That's pathetic.

MATT: That's the cheapest one you've got. 2d4 +
2.

LIAM: Let's get the fuck out of here and they
can--

LAURA: Okay, fine.

TALIESIN: She was gonna do a Mass Healing--

MARISHA: Yeah, what's your Mass Healing Word?

ORION: I'd like to know-- on the way down, I was
doing a little chant and I was expending my

sorcery points to do Flexible Casting, so I regain
a slot spell on my third-level spells.

MATT: Okay.

LAURA: As we're getting up, can I see-- Is the
camp nearby, where the prisoners are?

Is that anywhere near us?

MATT: No, that's towards the center of the camp.

LIAM: We gotta keep moving. I pull out another
corked potion and slap it into Percy's hand.

MARISHA: Yeah, we gotta go.

LIAM: And then grab him by the wrist and just
start walking.

TALIESIN: I'm up.

MARISHA: Here, wait. Save the potion, I cast
Healing Word on Percy.

ASHLEY: Hold on, I'm gonna do a Mass Cure Wounds.

LAURA: Mass Cure Wounds?

MATT: All right. So as you guys are running
towards the back, towards the main tunnel, which

you can now see, it's roughly a 40- by 30-foot
tunnel. You go running through the buildings. You

see a few duergar kinda poke out from the
buildings.

LAURA: Can we stealth while we're doing this, or
are we too, like, injured?

ORION: No, this is--

MATT: No, you guys are just bolting at this point.
You're not even

concentrating on stealth right now.

LAURA: Bolting it, right.

TALIESIN: This is, this is--

MATT: Plus, with the group-- Basically, a few of
you would stealth and the rest of you would be

left in the dust, so you're just kind of all
pushing for speed at this point.

LAURA: Okay.

ORION: Yeah.

MATT: You all manage to push towards the back of
the entire war camp, into this tunnel. Hearing

behind you the distant echoing shouts of
approximately 30-plus duergar heading in your

direction. You hear a few other ballista bolts
hitting the wall above you of the stone.

ORION: Are we all in the tunnel?

MATT: You guys have now pushed into the tunnel.

ORION: I wait for everybody to pass and I cast all
my Grand Columns.

MATT: Okay, how many can you--

ORION: Three.

MATT: Three per spell? And how many spell levels
do you have currently?

ORION: That's it, that's what I did the SP for, so
that I could cast this right now.

MATT: Right. So you have one.

ORION: I have none in my column.

MATT: Right. How many spell castings did you have
left? Two?

ORION: No, I had one.

ASHLEY: (whispers) 24.

TALIESIN: 24?

LAURA: 24 mass?

ASHLEY: 24 mass cure.

MATT: One left. So you get three columns. It's 30
feet wide.

LAURA: Oh, she just healed everybody for 24
points.

ORION: (whispers) Oh, it's 30--

MARISHA: Oh, dope.

MATT: Okay, everyone heals for 24 points. Add that
up.

LIAM: Oh, I feel good!

LAURA: I feel pretty good now.

TRAVIS: Dude! Kick that shit.

LAURA: What what!

ORION: It's not enough, is it?

MATT: No.

ASHLEY: (sighs) Okay. Including myself?

LIAM and TRAVIS: Yes.

ORION: Are the caves stone? Like the cave--

MATT: The walls are stone.

TRAVIS: Ugh, that's huge.

LAURA: Oh my god, it's major.

ORION: Can I like, do it from the side? Can I
attempt to?

MATT: Pillars go straight up, unfortunately. It's
the nature of the spell's creation.

MARISHA: Well wait, I can do what you're trying to
do.

ORION: Oh! Oh yeah!

MARISHA: I do Wall Of Stone.

ORION: There you go!

MATT: Okay! So as you're trying to figure this
out, Keyleth steps over--

MARISHA: I'm like, oh, is this, oh--

ORION: It's-- Oh!

MARISHA: Sorry! You should've just-- I would've--
they're not very--

ORION: They're columns.

MARISHA: Yeah.

ORION: You're good. The wall's good.

MARISHA: Right.

ORION: Good.

LAURA: Are we running? I don't know what you guys
are doing. What's happening right now?

MATT: As you guys are doing this and rushing in,
you're realizing there's one member of your party

that you haven't had a lot of time with--

LAURA and LIAM: Clarota!

MATT: -- that you didn't think about until this
moment.

LIAM: Clarota, yeah. Clarota.

MARISHA: Oh, yeah!

MATT: You now see, kind of, like, floating, via
levitation ability, about 30 feet away, slowly

descending towards you, as you're putting up the
wall of stone--

ORION: Oh! Wait! Hold on!

TRAVIS: Come on Squidworth, over here!

MATT: Two bolts go firing towards him; one
whooshes overhead, a second one--

MARISHA: Clarota!

MATT: (impact sound) -- through his back, out the
front of his chest--

LAURA: No!

MATT: -- off the shoulder.

ORION: Come on! We need to save him!

LIAM: He's gotta have more than ten hit points.

ORION: Recess the wall, recess the wall!

MARISHA: Wait!

MATT: You can see now-- and the bolt itself is
about 4 feet long, made of this long, jagged,

pointed arrow tip.

LAURA: Oh, man.

MATT: Clarota begins to falter, and begins to
hover towards you, almost, like, trying to swim

through the air in your direction.

LAURA: Can we run out, try to grab him?

ASHLEY: Can I grab him, hang on to him?

ORION: Oh!

MATT: He's about 20 feet from you now, you can try
and reach out and put your hands towards him--

ORION: Boom!

LAURA: Yeah, yeah, yeah.

TRAVIS: I take off and run to him.

ORION: Now I cast Glacial Blast, right under him,
like a slide, right towards us-- and catch him.

MATT: Okay. So as you guys are running towards
him, instead,

this giant crystalline form of ice just--

LAURA: Oh, all right.

MATT: -- crackles up into what looks like some
sort of strange, winter festival slide that would

be made for children in the center of town.
Clarota--

ASHLEY: Awesome.

MATT: -- as it descends, two more bolts come
towards him. Both (whoosh, whoosh). At this

distance, in the darkness of the cavern, it's kind
of hard for them to get a bead on him. Both just

pass overhead. With eyes kind of lolling, Clarota
comes down and hits the edge of the slide, and

almost loses consciousness at that moment, sliding
through the ice. You guys manage to capture,

grappling his arms, lift him to his feet--

MARISHA: And now, Wall Of Stone.

MATT: You all make it into the tunnel, Keyleth
turns around, raising her hands, the actual

blackened stonework of this tunnel shakes for a
second, and then a giant, thick wall of natural

rock closes off the entire tunnel behind you.

ORION: Nice.

LAURA: I love you, Trinket!

LIAM: Completely seals it?

MARISHA: Oh, gosh.

MATT: Completely seals it. You guys are now in
complete darkness.

ORION: Ooh! Light!

MATT: As the light hits, you can hear, just on the
other side of the surface of the stone wall,

javelins, other things are being shot at the stone
wall--

LAURA: Yeah!

MATT: -- but it's keeping it at bay. You guys are
now at the wall, and behind you the tunnel

continues into a passage you haven't seen yet.

TRAVIS: Whatever we do from here, I sprinkle dust
of tracelessness behind us

the whole time like a fucking flower girl.

(all laugh)

LIAM: They could have magic in their possession,
they could use magic as well, so let's move.

LAURA: Yeah, they could get through it.

ORION: Yes.

TALIESIN: Will a healing potion work on Clarota?

ASHLEY: So, Clarota's with us?

LAURA: Clarota's with us.

ASHLEY: Can I go over to Clarota and try to heal
him?

LAURA: Don't get too close, he might just suck in
your brain.

MATT: You can certainly try.

TALIESIN: I've got a potion, so--

MARISHA: Grog?

ASHLEY: Should we give him a potion?

TRAVIS: What?

MARISHA: Do you have any ale?

TRAVIS: Yeah, I do have a cask, actually.

MARISHA: I think I need a drink.

TRAVIS: Right. I'll--

TALIESIN: What's a level two potion do?

TRAVIS: There you are.

MATT: A level two potion would be 4d4 + 4.

TRAVIS: I go and hold his shoulders--

MARISHA: I really need a drink.

TRAVIS: -- whilst she tries to heal him, just in
case he gets all sucky on her.

ASHLEY: I think he's gonna give him a potion.

TRAVIS: Oh.

TALIESIN: I am.

TRAVIS: That's much less--

LAURA: No!

LIAM: Felicia Day, that's not nice!

TRAVIS: Hey!

TALIESIN: 17 points of healing.

MATT: Okay. 17 points to Clarota.

ASHLEY: What'd she say?

MATT: Which-- administering a potion to a mind
flayer is an experience that very few in this

world have probably ever, or ever will,
experience. As you kind of reach over, grab his

shoulder, you look for where to put it, and the
tendrils kind of, like, flail about, but begin

to-- they, as he notices what you're doing, kind
of relax and open up, and you can now see the

circular, lamprey-like, toothy maw of the mind
flayer. It's a very disturbing, disgusting image,

with this jagged, yellow teeth, in a circular
form. You pop the cork, and just pour it in. As

you do, you see the wounds across Clarota's form
begin to seal.

The arrow is still stuck in its torso.

LAURA: Can we try to pull it out?

ASHLEY: Try to break off the part--

MATT: You can certainly try.

TRAVIS: I got it (snap)!

MATT: Go ahead and make a-- this would be a
medicine check.

LAURA: Do you wanna do that, Grog?

TRAVIS: I'll do the breaking part.

MATT: It's iron. It's solid iron.

ASHLEY: My medicine's a four.

LAURA: Oh.

MATT: Breaking it off is not gonna work.

ASHLEY: What's your medicine?

TRAVIS: So? Zero.

MATT: You have to pull it from the wound.

ASHLEY: Okay. I'll try.

TALIESIN: Who has a medicine?

LAURA: So what are you--

ASHLEY: A four.

LAURA: Okay. All right.

ASHLEY: What does everybody have?

MATT: Go for it.

LAURA: Do it!

ASHLEY: Roll this guy? Okay. Nine?

MATT: A nine.

LAURA: (laughs) Oh no.

ASHLEY: Sorry!

MATT: So. You take your moment, you view up where
the puncture wound is, with a little bit of Grog's

help, you both grab the edge, and you're like, 'On
three. One, two, three, pull!' You pull through

the wound, not against the arrow--

TRAVIS: Right.

MATT: -- 'cause that would just tear everything
out in the process, but nevertheless, in doing so,

Clarota does take an additional eight points of
damage.

ASHLEY: I'm sorry.

MATT: But, the wound is now no longer a giant--

LAURA: Able to be healed.

MATT: -- it's now able to be healed completely,
so. Clarota takes a moment

and kind of grasps the wound.

LAURA: I hand him a little healing potion, and
say, sorry.

MATT: Shatters the glass. At which point, you now
hear (impact sounds) against the stone wall.

LAURA: We should move!

ASHLEY: Time to go!

LIAM: Let's keep moving, yes? Yes.

TRAVIS: I pick up Clarota. Yeah, why not.

LAURA: Yeah, all right.

TRAVIS: I pick up Clarota and we start running
balls.

LAURA: Is he good enough to walk or is he--

MATT: He's good enough to walk with you guys.
Well--

TRAVIS: Well, how about I put one arm under his
face and help him.

MATT: So you're helping him.

LIAM: No, that's-- hold on a second. I take out
the flying carpet--

LAURA: We still have the flying carpet?

LIAM: Sure we do!

MATT: Yeah.

LIAM: Here, sit on this, Clarota.

LAURA: If you need it.

LIAM: That'd be easier, yes.

MATT: Clarota gets up on the carpet and-- "Thank
you." The carpet kind of drifts alongside you

guys. You guys are pushing backwards towards the
cavern. The tunnel kind of begins to pinch a

little bit. It gets to about a 15-foot width
before it opens up again. You're about a hundred

feet back. You can now see it opening into a--
what looks like an extension of the war camp.

(all groan)

LAURA: We should've gone down! What were we
thinking?

MATT: Go ahead and make a perception check.

LIAM: That guy was lying.

LAURA: Well, he said go down. We didn't go down.

LIAM: 21 for me.

LAURA: 13 for me. I like how my passive perception
is way higher than any rolls that I ever do.

MATT: I do keep that-- I keep tabs on that.

TALIESIN: 22.

MARISHA: Are we all doing perception rolls?

MATT: For the most part, we've got a few rolls,
and it worked fine. Looking inside though, this

camp looks like it's been abandoned.

LAURA: Oh, good!

MATT: It looks like it was built, and then the
expansion into the war camp you just escaped from

seemed to be the next step. Like it's slowly
advancing and this section of it has been in

disuse. As you push in towards the center of the
camp you can see there's older campfires, lots of

the tents have like partially collapsed. Dust has
gathered.

LIAM: I'm keeping my eyes peeled for useful shit.

MATT: Okay. Looking around as well, you see all
the equipment. Any pieces that would be of

interest have either been taken-- either destroyed
and are broken or have probably been moved into

the war camp. You glance through a couple of the
tents. Looking about, it's definitely been

abandoned. It no longer serves a purpose and
anything of use has been stripped and taken. This

cavern is maybe about 60 feet up or so. It's a
little domed section, and you can now see there

are two exit tunnels to this section. One that is
kind of straight ahead, a little bit to the left.

And one that veers off to the direct left of you.
So if you're looking straight from the direction

you came, there is one right ahead of you, a
little bit to the left

and one that goes quickly to the left.

LAURA: Should we take the left one?

TRAVIS: Which one's the left one?

MARISHA: He mentioned the left.

LAURA: Yeah, so maybe we should stay left.

MATT: Yeah, do that.

LIAM: Clarota, do you know anything about these
passages?

LAURA: Do you remember anything?

MARISHA: Wait, why did he say that? Why did you
say that?

MATT: 'Cause they're both kind of left. It's a
joke. Clarota takes a moment and kind of looks at

you, kind of-- his breath. "I've not been this far
up these tunnels. It's too dangerous this close to

"the war camp. I would've been killed in a
second."

LAURA: What about the general's memory? Anything
there?

MATT: He kind of closes his eyes for a second.
"One of these leads below, one of them leads to

"the surface. I can't recall which."

LAURA: Can we go up and--

TRAVIS: Let's split up!

LAURA: No, can we go next to the one on the far
left and see if I sense

any like wind coming down, is there--

MATT: Going to the one on the far left, as you're
stepping you hear a (muffled impact noise)--

LAURA: Oh, well, good.

MATT: -- against the distant stone wall that you
put up.

TRAVIS: I think we get to pick one here.

MARISHA: Are there any--

ASHLEY: He did say go left.

MATT: As you head to the tunnel, you don't sense
any sort of temperature change, but it does seem

to steady off into a decline that curves to the
left.

LAURA: We should do that.

TALIESIN: Sounds good.

MARISHA: Do you mean, are there like-- is there
any wildlife, any bats,

any type of animals, anything like that?

MATT: We shall say, a general sense of this area,
you look and you can see, in this area, unlike the

previous sections, there are small clusters of
bats on the ceiling.

MARISHA: Okay, I'm going to--

MATT: As apparently they have an exit of some kind
to the surface.

MARISHA: I'm going to go ahead and cast Beast
Sense on one of the bats.

MATT: Okay.

MARISHA: And I'm going to channel myself through
the bat and I'm going to

make him fly down the far left tunnel.

MATT: Okay. So as you guys are walking over there,
one of the bats--

ASHLEY: Good call.

MATT: -- heads down into the tunnel, continues
into the darkness.

MARISHA: Can I just see--

MATT: From the echolocation, which is a very
strange sensation, you haven't really done this

before for a bat and it's a very weird experience.

MARISHA: Wow, guys, this is really trippy.

TALIESIN: We just hear (bat sounds).

MATT: It continues about a steady 40-degree
decline that goes further and further down.

LAURA: Keep going down. Down, down, down.

MATT: Eventually, you get to a point where the bat
is out of your sphere of influence and you lose

your connection to the bat.

LAURA: Keep going down?

MARISHA: Well, I didn't really see much, but
definitely there is a pretty steep incline. We

could try it again and go down the other one.

LIAM: This is a coin flip.

LAURA: I think we keep going down. Just stick with
it.

ORION: Hold on! Incline means up.

LAURA: Oh.

MATT: No, it's a decline.

MARISHA: Decline.

ORION: Decline means down.

LAURA: Well, then let's go with the decline. Yes?

TALIESIN: Yes.

LAURA: Let's do it!

TALIESIN: We go. With haste.

LAURA: Yes.

MATT: All righty.

TRAVIS: With haste!

LAURA: With stealth! With Dust of Tracelessness
behind us.

TRAVIS: Hey, flower girl!

LAURA: Flower girl!

ORION: Actually, there's two tunnels, right?

MATT: There are two tunnels, yes.

ORION: And one's smaller than the other?

MATT: Correct.

ORION: Hm.

MATT: Yes?

TALIESIN: There's no right answer here. It's
just--

ORION: I know.

TALIESIN: Yeah.

ORION: How big is the-- how wide is the smaller
one that we're going through?

MATT: There's one, the one on the far end, the one
that does not appear to be a decline,

seems to be the widest of the two.

TRAVIS: I pull out a torch. Will you light my
torch?

ORION: Yeah.

TRAVIS: Nice.

(all laugh)

TRAVIS: Are we going to the left?

LAURA: Yeah.

TRAVIS: I take off running to the left.

LAURA: Oh, god. Grog!

MATT: Okay.

LIAM: Running, running?

TRAVIS: Running!

LIAM: Really running?

TRAVIS: Running to the left.

ORION: Oh man, oh no!

MATT: Grog goes charging into the darkened tunnel
to the very left--

LAURA: Grog! Stop!

ORION: Let's go, everybody!

MARISHA: There he goes!

LAURA: I'm gonna take off after him.

MATT: The heavy footsteps of Grog disappearing
into the darkness--

TRAVIS: (maniacal laugh)

LAURA: We take off after him, 'cause he needs
help.

ORION: Let's go!

MARISHA: Grog, Grog! Don't run too far ahead--
He's gone.

MATT: You guys give chase.

LAURA: Yes.

LIAM: It's like having Goofy as a party member.

(all laugh)

LIAM: (Goofy laugh)

ASHLEY: Hodor!

TRAVIS: Hah. Hodor.

ASHLEY: Hodor.

MATT: As you guys catch up to Grog, which isn't
too hard--

TRAVIS: What? I'm fast.

MATT: Are you going to a full sprint, though?

TRAVIS: No, no, no. I mean. A leisurely jog.

MATT: Right. You catch up to Grog. The tunnel
itself is about 30 feet wide, 20 feet tall. And it

is a slow, continuously gradual decline and curve
to the left.

LAURA: Can you do another wall?

MATT: Like a spiral, downward.

LAURA: No?

TRAVIS: Maybe we could do a cave-in.

LAURA: Well, that might be dangerous.

TRAVIS: Yeah, but it'd be fun.

MATT: You guys continue for another 20 or so
minutes down, before it opens up into a small

alcove to the right, but the tunnel continues.
This alcove, it's about 35, 40 feet in, and it

looks like there are remnants here of a camp that
was set up once. Similar to the war camp, but once

again abandoned, or at least currently not in use.

LIAM: Any useful shit?

LAURA: Can we go, oh! Can we go in? We should
probably rest, heal up, get our spells back. Can

you cast the illusion terrain and make it look
like there's no hole in the cavern here?

MARISHA: No. I can't, today. I'm sorry.

ORION: If this is where we're gonna be chilling, I
can seal off that tunnel still.

LAURA: But we have to be able to get back out.

ORION: Right.

TRAVIS: Not necessarily.

ASHLEY: If I--

LIAM: No! If you seal off the passage, right, we
keep going down, and if that's a dead end-- it's

probably not-- if it is, can't we rest and use the
same spell to open it up?

ORION: No, it's permanent.

LIAM: That sucks.

ORION: But we would just have Grog hack away at it
for a while--

TRAVIS: Thank you!

ORION: It can be, you know, destroyed.

TRAVIS: They do call me 'Grog the Locksmith.'

ORION: Right!

TRAVIS: They don't call me that.

LAURA: Can we go in and look at the camp and see,
like, stealthily--

MATT: Yeah!

LAURA: -- check out what the camp is?

MARISHA: I can make it really foggy.

MATT: Go ahead and make an investigate check.

MARISHA: I could do that.

LIAM: Yes, we know that about you.

TRAVIS: Oh, I can too!

LIAM: What about in the game, though?

MARISHA: I can make it look like a--

LAURA: 20.

MATT: All right.

MARISHA: Well, that's a different story.

MATT: As you guys are having this conversation,
Vex does a quick glance over, there are about four

tents that are still set up, there appears to be a
small ring where a fire was set up, and you can

see kind of bits of charcoal--

TALIESIN: Yes!

MATT: -- and bits of long, long, long forgotten
burnt meat, remnants, charcoal, and such there.

TRAVIS: I have two firewood bundles.

TALIESIN: I'm gonna look for a seal, to see if
there's a seal anywhere around.

MATT: You do see, on one of the walls--

TALIESIN: Bam!

MATT: -- there is a similar seal of Bahamut.

LAURA: (gasps) Oh! This was her camp!

TALIESIN: Kima was here!

LAURA: Kima was here!

MARISHA: #kimawashere.

MATT: However, there are four tents here--

LAURA: Oh.

ORION: Kima was here.

MATT: Which means-- previously you saw just one,
from what you saw. There are four here.

TRAVIS: She had babies.

MATT: It's an interesting change to your
appearance. Means either been repurposed, or there

were more people with her, or since then the tent,
the camp has been used

by other individuals aside from her.

TRAVIS: Oh.

MATT: However, glancing through, you do notice
that there are a few discarded travel bags--

LAURA: Mine! Mine! Mine!

MARISHA: Ooh!

MATT: -- carrying rope, grappling hooks, general
cluster of torches, about eight in total--

LAURA: Okay, that's nice. Torch, torch, torch,
torch.

TRAVIS: Thank you! Bag of holding, bag of
holding.

MATT: And as you glance about you can see, in this
alcove, looking at the dirt itself, it looks like

there was a serious struggle. You can start seeing
drag mark--

LAURA: Can I use Tracking and see what happened,
like Prince Humperdink, please? Can do?

MATT: Ah, well, this is part of your investigation
roll, essentially.

LAURA: Okay, okay.

MATT: Unless you want to track to where the tracks
went, that's a different story. That's--

LAURA: Well, can I see who was attacked first?
Does it look like Kima was attacked, or she--

MATT: It's hard to tell, you see some of the
footsteps, and some of the drag marks, while

mostly worn over, elements do show some of the
fairer folk. The duergar have a very distinct

footprint or size. You do see one that resembles
more of, like, gnomish or halfling origin. You see

drag marks in the dirt, you see other individuals,
looks like there were chunks of rock that have

been chopped off the side of the wall that look
fresh, where you can see the soot that has settled

into this part of the cavern is no longer visible
where these scratch marks

basically took off and exposed fresh rock.

LAURA: The drag marks, do they lead outside of the
alcove and down?

MATT: They do, and they lead down the tunnel
further.

LAURA: Okay.

TRAVIS: Let's go that way, or are we resting?

LAURA: Do we need to rest? I mean--

LIAM: I think we should rest.

ORION: I need to rest.

LAURA: -- I feel like we need to get our spells
back, otherwise we're just gonna get killed.

ORION: Yes.

MARISHA: Are we being chased right now?

TALIESIN: Possibly.

ORION: Possibly.

MARISHA: Are people hot on our tail?

ORION: Possibly.

TALIESIN: We can rest in shifts.

LAURA: Yeah. I guess that's the best thing to do.

TRAVIS: I'll stay awake.

LIAM: I'm totally fine at the moment, so I'll stay
awake too.

ORION: Should I seal the tunnel?

MARISHA: I need to sleep.

LAURA: Maybe seal the tunnel behind us, yeah, so
that--

LIAM: Yes.

LAURA: -- if they do come, they have to like, try
to get through.

ASHLEY: I can stay, I can stay awake too, I'm
okay.

ORION: Cool.

ASHLEY: So maybe everybody sleep--

ORION: So I do.

MATT: Okay. So you use your spell, you seal off
the tunnel with pillars. You can just barely get

most of the entranceway covered, there's a couple
of small slivers and spaces between.

ORION: But we would sure hear them, if they
were--

LAURA: Trying to get through, yeah.

MATT: Yeah. If they were.

LAURA: All right.

MATT: All right. So you guys end up making camp,
are you guys lighting a fire? Or are you keeping

it dark? What's your plan?

TRAVIS: Yeah. I've got two firewood bundles in the
bag of Ikea holding.

TALIESIN: I don't think we need a fire.

LIAM: I don't think it's a good idea.

ASHLEY: Do we need a fire?

LAURA: Yeah.

LIAM: We're fine. It's warm down here.

MATT: It's fairly warm.

LIAM: Yes.

ORION: Oh.

TRAVIS: Then, no?

(all laugh)

LIAM: We've got Tiberius, if he's awake, can cast
Light, let's just go into one of these tents.

TRAVIS: I wanna burn something.

LAURA: I know.

MARISHA: Yeah, two to a tent.

LAURA: You can keep burning a torch.

MARISHA: We can each have our own tent! There's
enough.

LAURA: Stick it in the ground.

TRAVIS: Is there anything made of wood down here?

ORION: I actually have to rest completely, so I
can't do shifts.

TRAVIS: I want to set it on fire.

MATT: Okay. Fair enough.

ORION: I need all my spell slots.

MARISHA: I need to sleep as well.

MATT: What wood there is, is used charcoal in the
abandoned fire pit, unfortunately.

ASHLEY: Yeah, but can you--

TRAVIS: I wanted to pyro shit.

MATT: You guys get set up?

LIAM: I pull out some dice, so that Grog and I can
gamble while everyone are sleeping.

TRAVIS: Ooh!

MATT: Fair enough.

TALIESIN: How much does a rest heal? Out of
curiosity?

MATT: A rest heals you to full.

TALIESIN: Oh, excellent.

LAURA: Oh, sweet! Yeah, let's fully rest.

TALIESIN: Do I have time to do a quick engineering
feat, as well?

MATT: You do not have--

TALIESIN: Oh, okay. Never mind.

MATT: Like at this point, I mean, you could--
what're you trying to do? I should say.

TALIESIN: Make an explosive arrow. I'm just in a
mood.

MATT: Do you have any currently built explosives?

TALIESIN: No, but I have gunpowder.

MATT: You know what, I'll let you go ahead and try
it with just your tinker's kit--

TALIESIN: Yeah.

LAURA: Tinker's?

MATT: It's gonna be a difficult--

TALIESIN: That's fine!

MATT: -- roll, but go for it.

TALIESIN: What do I add? Am I just straight roll?

MATT: You add your proficiency bonus, which is,
the tinker's kit is four.

TALIESIN: Oh, okay. Proficiency bonus. 15?

MATT: 15? Okay, okay. You manage to fasten what
appears to be a black powder, impact-based

explosive to the tip of an arrow. It's a little
weighty and unwieldy, it might not be the most

accurate thing in the world, but if it hits it's
probably gonna pack a punch.

TALIESIN: Okay. I have another gift.

LAURA: You do?

TALIESIN: Explosive arrow!

LAURA: This is the best day ever!

TALIESIN: It's a bit iffy.

LIAM: (Cary Elwes voice) Gently! Gently!

ORION: It's a bit iffy.

LAURA: Gently!

MARISHA: Don't trust it!

TALIESIN: It's a bit iffy.

LAURA: I gingerly put it in my quiver.

ORION: More like a shotgun.

TALIESIN: It'll get better. It'll get better.

TRAVIS: Can you make me an explosive axe?

MATT: You very gingerly place it within your
quiver.

LAURA: Oh god, all right.

TALIESIN: I don't think you want an explosive
axe.

MATT: It's heavy in the tip.

TRAVIS: Why?

MATT: It's one of those things where, you know,
shooting it is

going to be an interesting challenge.

LAURA: Should I keep it away from the rest of my
stuff?

MATT: That's up to you!

LAURA: Is there a possibility it could explode
just--

ORION: You haven't even played with your hammer
yet!

MATT: I dunno.

TALIESIN: It's very unlikely to explode on by
itself. 'Cause it needs to be moving at a high

speed. But it's just not the best thing ever.

LAURA: Maybe I won't keep it straight behind my
head.

TALIESIN: Yeah, no. Not straight behind.

LAURA: Let's just kind of keep it down at my
waist--

LIAM: Off to the side.

LAURA: With the dagger, maybe.

MATT: Okay.

LAURA: Is that cool?

TALIESIN: The next one will be better.

MATT: All right.

LAURA: All right. Did we all rest? Are we all
rested?

TALIESIN: Yep.

MATT: As the evening transpires, you all get your
evenings of rest, you guys kind of keeping watch,

gambling away. At a certain point, throughout the
evening, something perks up your ears. You begin

hearing footsteps, many footsteps.

LIAM: Many footsteps.

LAURA: (gasps) Oh no. How many is many? A lot.

LIAM: How many does it sound like?

MATT: It sounds like anywhere between six, ten,
more--

LIAM: From, right, from up? Or down.

MATT: From above, yeah.

LIAM: From above.

TRAVIS: Up. Oh.

LAURA: We should wake up.

ASHLEY: From above?

TRAVIS: Like, the ceiling? Or--

LAURA: Well like the-- no, no, no. From like--

ASHLEY: Like where you have the--

LAURA: Up the path, right?

MATT: Up the path you guys came from.

LIAM: Wait. Grog and I are the only ones awake,
right?

ASHLEY: That he shielded off?

ORION: Yeah, it's sealed.

TRAVIS: Yep.

MATT: Yep.

LIAM: Grog and I are the only ones awake.

ORION: Right.

LIAM: Do we lay low, and hold quiet in these
tents? Or do we get everyone up?

LAURA: They're gonna know, 'cause we blocked off
the friggin' path! I'm asleep. Sorry.

LIAM: Yeah.

ASHLEY: I'm still awake.

TRAVIS: Lay low. Let them come.

LIAM: I think so.

LAURA: (whispers) What? You're just really--

TRAVIS: Keep sleeping and shut up!

LIAM: No, no, no, I rouse my sister quietly.

LAURA: What?

TRAVIS: Oh. Fine.

LIAM: She's in this tent.

TRAVIS: Wake her up.

LAURA: What's going--

LIAM: (whispers) Quiet.

MATT: All right. Leaving the rest asleep?

LIAM: Yeah.

LAURA: I stealth.

MATT: The three of you make a stealth check.

TRAVIS: I stealth as well.

MATT: You do, Grog. You do.

LAURA: God damn.

TRAVIS: Fuck yeah! A two!

LAURA: I should stop rolling this fucking dice.

TRAVIS: 17.

ASHLEY: Wait, are you guys asleep?

LIAM: 23.

MARISHA: I'm still passed out.

LAURA: Oh! Yeah, that was a one. This, by the
way--

MATT: Again?

LAURA: -- was given to me by Wil Wheaton.

TRAVIS: Yeah. Wake up your sister.

LAURA: Thank you, Wil.

TRAVIS: It was just us boys--

MATT: Thank you, Wil.

TRAVIS: -- and then you woke her up.

MATT: All right, so--

ASHLEY: Wait, I was awake too.

MATT: You were awake too?

ASHLEY: Yes.

MATT: At this point? You weren't resting?

TRAVIS: What. You?

LAURA: No, she was--

TRAVIS: Oh, she was actually awake.

ASHLEY: Because I was, I was still at full--

LAURA: (whispers) But you needed your spells.

MATT: Okay, then--

ASHLEY: Oh, but my spells? Actually--

MATT: If you're not resting you don't get your
spells back.

ORION: Yeah, you need--

ASHLEY: -- I fell asleep! I totally forgot. I am
sound asleep.

MARISHA: Totally forgot I fell asleep!

ASHLEY: I was dreaming--

TRAVIS: She dreamed, in the dream she was still
awake.

MATT: You are welcome to stay awake if you want,
but you just won't get your spells back.

ASHLEY: I was dreaming, it was real--

MATT: You'd probably be exhausted.

ASHLEY: -- I was so confused, by my dream.

TALIESIN: You were just going all Inception on
us.

LIAM: You know, when you can't fall asleep--

ASHLEY: My perception was off.

LIAM: -- and you're like, am I dreaming? Or is
this the dream? Or is it real?

TALIESIN: Spin the top. Spin the top.

ASHLEY: I was totally sleeping.

LIAM: And you wake up, and you have to pee, it's
hard to tell.

ASHLEY: And I spaced.

TRAVIS: So the three of us are up.

ASHLEY: I was asleep.

MATT: All right. So. Between the three of you,
thankfully, you had two successes against one

failure. You manage to cover for your sister--

LIAM: Shake it off.

LAURA: Thank you, thank you.

MATT: -- who, who, 'Huh? What? What?'

LAURA: Ah-- what? What?

MATT: When you wake her up.

LIAM: Sh! Sh.

MATT: You guys quietly wait--

TRAVIS: Oh no, that was a bad expression!

LIAM: Daggers out! Daggers out!

ASHLEY: Or that was good?

MATT: All right. So.

LAURA: Oh no. Did eyebrows go up?

TALIESIN: (whistles In the Hall of the Mountain
King)

MATT: The footsteps progress through, and you--
there's no light source, as duergar for the most

part do not require light to see in the tunnels.

LAURA: Can we see through the dark-- but we can
see in the dark?

MATT: You guys have low-light vision, not dark
vision.

LIAM: Not dark vision.

LAURA: There's no light in this area at all?

TRAVIS: No! It's balls-ass dark!

LIAM: There's no fire--

MATT: No, it is pitch black. You just hear--

LIAM: On purpose no fire.

MATT: -- you just hear the footprints go by.

TRAVIS: Good thing we didn't make a campfire!

LIAM: Sh, sh!

MATT: You hear them approach the outskirts of the
alcove.

ASHLEY: I have dark vision, gosh dang it!

MATT: But you're asleep.

ASHLEY: I'm fucking sleeping.

MATT: Yes, you are.

(all laugh)

ASHLEY: Bad choices, all around!

LIAM: They're going!

MATT: As the footsteps approach the outskirts of
the alcove, the rest of you sleeping soundly,

unaware of what's transpiring-- A few moments
pass, and the footprints appear to be passing,

past, downward into the tunnel.

(all laugh)

MATT: Eventually, when the footfalls dissipate,
and silence once again takes the camp, you breathe

a sigh of relief and remove your hand from Vex's
face.

TRAVIS: Well, maybe just leave it there.

LIAM: Last time I did that I got kicked in the
nuts, very hard.

TRAVIS: And liked it.

MATT: All right. So. Eventually, when you feel
enough time has passed, where those who've been

resting come from their sleep, spells recovered,
wounds are healed, except for those who didn't

sleep, you guys maintain the same health you had
previously.

ASHLEY: What a good sleep I've had! I have all my
spells back!

MATT: That also puts a level of exhaustion-- So.
There is one level of

exhaustion on both of you currently.

LIAM: Sure. So what does that do to us?

LAURA: Oh no.

ORION: Ah. You fools!

MATT: It just means any ability checks you take--

LIAM: Yes.

MATT: So, any skills you take are at disadvantage
until you get a full night's rest.

TRAVIS: I'll take one more level two potion right
now.

LIAM: Skill? Skill. Okay.

TRAVIS: One more level two potion.

MATT: Okay. You can use-- remember, you can use
your hit dice to heal still, before you start

throwing potions around. If you have a moment to
rest--

LAURA: Hit dice. We forgot about that because it
wasn't there before.

MATT: Yeah. (sings) Fifth Edition! Before you
start throwing potions around, 'cause remember,

you're far away from civilization right now, you
have a very limited number of potions now to lead

you through here, unless you find some way to
return to the surface.

LIAM: Just for emergencies.

ORION: What's happening?

LIAM: In combat.

MATT: So. You all eventually come back to
consciousness, in this darkened alcove, pitch

black. It is still warm, slight smell of soot and
dust in the air, what do you guys want to do?

LIAM: I have a question.

MATT: Yes.

LIAM: Outside of existence. Tiberius put up a
stone, right?

MATT: Mm-hm.

LIAM: But I didn't hear any (impact sounds),
right?

LAURA: Oh, no, he put it up next to our alcove.
So, they just kind of passed by our alcove.

MATT: It basically matched the wall as you guys
went around.

LIAM: Oh. So we sealed ourselves into this little
pocket?

LAURA: Yes. We did.

LIAM: Oh. We didn't even friggin' need to hide in
the tent! We were in a little bubble of air!

LAURA: Well, no, well, it's pillars, though, they
could have--

MATT: You're not completely in there.

LAURA: -- they could have seen us.

LIAM: Okay.

MATT: He could block off most of it, there's like
little spaces between--

LIAM: Spaces. Okay. All right. Thank you.

LAURA: I think we should all freshen up, since
it's a new day!

LIAM: Right. We're all healed, maybe-- Does anyone
have to pee? Or perhaps--

LAURA: Yeah, that.

ASHLEY: Yeah.

LAURA: That.

ORION: Is anyone particularly dirty?

LAURA: Intermission!

MATT: Indeed. So. This, given the point in time
that you all wake from your slumber, we'll

continue this in a few minutes. In the meantime,
we're gonna go ahead and go to our intermission

break. See you guys back here in about 12 minutes
or so.

MARISHA: Oh, cool.

ZAC: So we're gonna update everyone real quick.

MATT: All right, what you got, man?

ZAC: You guys can go, you guys can go.

MATT: Go, go!

ZAC: Matt and I are gonna chat. Lucas, can you
turn down all the

other mics while they're exiting?

(fart noises in background)

ZAC: So guys, we already gave away one promo kit,
so we reached our first goal.

MATT: Awesome. Fantastic.

ZAC: That's one. I'm gonna bring out a poster for
you guys to sign that

we'll put inside the promo kit with it.

MATT: Perfect.

ZAC: And we're actually pretty close to giving
away our second promo kit. So, just so you guys

know-- what the shit? If we get another 50, I
think it's like 40 more, or 38 more? The number's

on the bottom. We'll give away another promo kit,
and these guys will all sign the poster that goes

inside, and we'll get that shipped out to you as
quickly as possible.

MATT: Yeah, do it.

ZAC: That's pretty much the only update there. Oh,
do you want to make a quick mention about the

charity that you guys work with? Because we've
been posting that in the chat room.

MATT: Yes, yes. Yes, 826LA, guys, is a charity
that we've been been trying to raise money for.

Essentially, it's a Los Angeles-based, also in San
Francisco and other parts of the nation. It helps

teach and tutor children in literacy,
storytelling-- it's a really great charity. Go

ahead and look on the website 826LA.com for any
and all information you require on it. But they

are a really good cause, they're good people, and
been a fan of their work for a long time. So we

are happy to help however we can and however you
guys are able to help as well. So.

ZAC: Great. If the mods want to post the command
'criticalrole', you guys can link to that charity

and we'll go ahead and roll those videos so you
guys can get updated on the characters, and we'll

be back in a little bit.

MATT: See you guys in a little bit.

[character intros]

MATT: Welcome back, guys. All right, I think
everyone is

sufficiently rested and bathroom breaked.

LAURA: Yep.

MATT: And so we will pick it back up. So as you
all regain consciousness and prepare yourselves for

the day ahead, once again, you've gone a number of
days without sunlight, without any vision of the

sky. It's a very disorienting experience for all
of you who are unfamiliar with subterranean

territory. Even though you are rested, you don't
feel rested. There's kinks in your back from the

rocky floor. The best you could find yourself any
sort of comfort here is from whatever you have on

your back. Most of you sleep in your armor out of
necessity and paranoia. As consciousness comes to

you, you guys are able to try and find your way
back out now that you've been sealed in.

LAURA: Can we squish through the little cracks?

MATT: No.

LAURA: We have to cut it down?

MATT: You have about a five, six-inch gap between
each of them.

LAURA: So we've gotta break our way out of here,
Grog.

TRAVIS: Oh, do I get to hit things?

MATT: You do.

LIAM: Start smacking the wall.

TRAVIS: My god.

ASHLEY: Can I just give it a try, just to see? Try
make a dent.

MATT: Yeah, go ahead and make an athletics check.

TRAVIS: And just to try it out, I would like bring
out the flaming hammer of--

MATT: Actually, for this I would say it's a
straight strength check. This is just physicality,

strength against the stonework.

LIAM: Might need to take your armor off.

ASHLEY: Strength is?

TRAVIS: Yeah.

LAURA: Oh, it's right here.

TRAVIS: 23.

MATT: All right.

TRAVIS: With the hammer.

ASHLEY: Ten.

MARISHA: We're playing pillar pinata.

MATT: All right, so as Pike-- as you go and swing
at the pillar, you impact with all your might and

the pillar cracks at the impact. You're like,
'that is awesome', then you look up a few inches

and notice that Grog's ax is also in the same
pillar.

ASHLEY: Oh.

(all laugh)

ASHLEY: Yay teamwork, teamwork.

TRAVIS: Yay, you loosened it up for me.

ASHLEY: Yeah I did!

MARISHA: Yeah.

LIAM: (singing) That's fuckin' teamwork.

ASHLEY: Best pals!

MATT: You guys, you take five or six minutes or
so. You manage to hack away enough in one of the

pillars to leave enough room to squeeze through.
It takes a while. You manage to cleave that open.

You all gather your things, you group together and
you can continue in whichever direction you wish.

ASHLEY: Down.

TRAVIS: Yeah, we're going down.

MATT: All right, as you guys--

LAURA: Stealth!

LIAM: There are also some, I believe some duergar
we didn't tell you--

LAURA: Ahead of us.

LIAM: Yes, while you were sleeping in the middle
of the night, duergar walked-- I assume--

LAURA: Dooragar?

LIAM: Duraga.

LIAM: (in odd accent) Duergar, some duergar walked
down the passageway while you were sleeping.

TALIESIN: Doo-agar.

ORION: Duragar.

ASHLEY: Dooagar.

LIAM: But we thought it best to lay low and they
went on.

MARISHA: That's good.

LAURA: Yes.

LIAM: So, steady as she goes.

LAURA: They might be ahead of us.

TALIESIN: We should probably be quiet.

MARISHA: Before we leave, I wanna go ahead and
take a minute to meditate. If you guys can, you

know, just watch while I meditate.

TALIESIN: Oh god.

LAURA: And lend our energy to you.

MARISHA: Yes, if you guys could lend your positive
energy it would be very helpful.

TRAVIS: (fart sounds)

MARISHA: So I can Commune With Nature.

TALIESIN: I'll be out of the hole.

MARISHA: I want to do Commune (pronouncing
incorrectly) With Nature.

MATT: Commune? (pronouncing correctly)

MARISHA: Yes, or Commune, whatever.

MATT: You wanna start a commune in nature?

TRAVIS: Commune.

MARISHA: Yeah, I want to start a commune in
nature.

TALIESIN: Commune in a commune.

ORION: Can we do that? How high is that roll
again?

MARISHA: Commune in commune in a commune.

LIAM: Going the homeopathic route, I like it.

MARISHA: That one.

MATT: Okay, keeping the best essence--

TALIESIN: Oh god.

MATT: -- of the scenery around you, you take a
moment. What's the reach of that one?

MARISHA: Just read it, where is it?

MATT: Whatcha got?

MARISHA: Three miles.

MATT: Three miles. The natural entities that you
can sense in this cavern system are the few

clusters of bats that exist in the back portion of
the war camp that you guys just ran from. That's

about it, I mean, there are a few other strange
things that you've seen that live down here, but

they wouldn't be anything that you would naturally
sense.

TRAVIS: What more do you see?

MARISHA: Lots of bats. They're very nice bats

TRAVIS: Well, that's good.

ORION: I love bats.

MARISHA: Very pleasant, they're very friendly.
That's about it.

ORION: Very good.

LAURA: Bats.

MARISHA and TALIESIN: Bats.

MARISHA: Okay, carry on, let's go.

TRAVIS: Oh, good.

LAURA: All right.

MARISHA: Thank you for your positive energy.

LAURA: Nice.

MATT: All right, you guys step back into the
tunnel, all of you squeezing through with the rest

of your materials, heading further down. About 15
minutes of travel go by and the very air itself is

becoming steadily warmer.

TALIESIN: It's humid in here.

MATT: The smell is this combination of still
water, groundwater type of a scent mixed with an

ever-growing kind of sulfur-type, brimstone
smell.

LIAM: Smells like Grog.

TRAVIS: I would like to trip Vax.

(all laugh)

LIAM: That was quick.

(all laugh)

TRAVIS: As he's walking.

LIAM: I insult you and you trip me in a half a
second? Would you like to take a shot at my nads

as well?

LAURA: You knew it was coming, as well.

MATT: Make an athletics check.

TRAVIS: Yes! 24!

MATT: Make an acrobatics check.

TRAVIS: Suck it, elf.

LIAM: What goes around comes around, baby. 22.

MARISHA: Ooh.

MATT: (impact sound) Face down, Vax.

TRAVIS: Yes!

MATT: A slight bruise on the cheek as you go
faceplanting into the stonework ahead of you.

TALIESIN: For god's sake.

LIAM: I'm going to voluntarily erase one hit
point.

TRAVIS: What, what happened? What happened? Did
you not stealth past that little pebble?

LIAM: It's all right, when the illithid general is
bearing down on your walnut-sized brain--

TRAVIS: Yeah?

LIAM: I may be there, I may not.

ASHLEY: Hey! Don't be rude to him!

LAURA: You guys, you guys.

TRAVIS: Oh, I'm so happy right now.

LAURA: These caverns are getting to us.

(all laugh)

MATT: Clarota shuffles alongside you guys.

LIAM: Right, everyone, we're getting slap-happy.

LAURA: All right, all right, all right, let's call
this.

TRAVIS: That's all I wanted.

ASHLEY: Lack of oxygen.

LAURA: We're going crazy down here.

MARISHA: Grog, it's only 9:30 in the morning.

ORION: I feel fine.

MARISHA: For christ's sake.

MATT: As you guys are walking, you're welcome to
make chatter, any discussions you'd like.

LIAM: That was a high acrobatics roll. I think the
DM wanted me to eat shit.

MATT: No, it was yours versus his.

TRAVIS: Yeah.

LAURA: Yeah.

LIAM: Oh, really? It was a direct contest?

MATT: It was a direct versus 24 versus 22. He
won.

LIAM: You still wanted me to eat shit.

MATT: No, it's up to the rolls, man.

MARISHA: So wait, we get a chance to chat for a
second?

ORION: Yes.

MARISHA: Pike, did you ever fully tell us what all
you saw in your vision? I mean, have you perhaps

had any more visions?

LAURA: Visions? You had a vision?

ASHLEY: I did, I did.

LAURA: What?

ASHLEY: So, when I stayed away, I went to a shrine
of Sarenrae, just to sorta see, 'cause I had a

feeling that I'd been here, or something like
that. So in this vision, I basically saw what

we've been going through already.

MARISHA: What?

ASHLEY: And what the soldier was talking about. So
I saw something that was-- there was a single

twisted horn of blackened soul matter.

LAURA: Oh, soul matter?

MARISHA: Soul matter?

TALIESIN: Oh.

LIAM: Sounds dirty.

ASHLEY: It was a point of concentrated evil.

ORION: Oh.

LAURA: This horn?

ASHLEY: Yes.

MARISHA: Concentrated evil.

ORION: Nasty horn.

ASHLEY: And it was so strong that I couldn't stay
in the vision, because I could feel that it was

taking over, so I pulled me out of the dream,
among various things. But I saw--

MARISHA: Like the horn of Sauron?

ASHLEY: The horn of Sauron, is what it said.

ORION: Is that your cousin?

LIAM: Did you see any whales?

LAURA: The horn of--

ASHLEY: I didn't see whales.

LIAM: No whales.

LAURA: Okay, no narwhals.

MARISHA: No whales, no narwhals.

LAURA: The horn of K'varn, yes?

ASHLEY: Yes.

LAURA: Okay.

MARISHA: Horn of evil.

ASHLEY: I some visions of where sort of-- 'Cause I
kind of went in past and then got to this thing.

So I guess depending on where we are--

LAURA: Can you lead in the direction to go?

ASHLEY: Yes, if I see things that are familiar.
Such as--

(all laugh)

ASHLEY: I went past a jagged onyx-colored fortress
framed in molten rock.

LIAM: Oh.

LAURA: I think that probably--

MARISHA: The place we're heading.

LAURA: The place we're going to.

ASHLEY: Yes.

LIAM: That sounds creepy

ASHLEY: Past a field of broken glass and bone.

ORION: Right.

MARISHA: We haven't seen that. Oh no.

TRAVIS: Obsidian, maybe?

ASHLEY: Yeah.

TALIESIN: Or just melted sand.

TRAVIS: I mean, whatever that is.

ASHLEY: And the prettiest was into a cavern of
blue crystal, where a fungal fortress--

LAURA: A fungal fortress?

MARISHA: Ooh.

ASHLEY: -- sort of entwined an ancient city of
marble and jade--

ORION: Three different places.

LIAM: That sounds really shitty.

LAURA: Did the blue gemstones look valuable?

MARISHA: It sounds amazing, that doesn't sound
shitty.

MATT: As you start to mention that now, Clarota
kind of nods and says,

LIAM: It feels a bit-- broken glass.

MATT: "Aye, that's where the colony resides."

LAURA: Your colony?

MATT: "Our great city."

LIAM: In which of those places? In the--

LAURA: In the fungal city.

LIAM: Fungal.

MATT: "Amongst the ruins of jade and glass."

LAURA: (whispers) Jade.

ORION: Is that where we should go?

MARISHA: That's Yug'Voril?

MATT: "Surrounded by the forest."

MARISHA: That's Yug'Voril?

MATT: "The city below Yug'Voril, that is where the
temple resides,

"where K'varn holds the Elder Brain."

LAURA: Ah.

ORION: Ah, this is where we need to go, I'm
assuming.

MATT: "Ah, yes."

LIAM: He sounds like a real fun-guy.

TRAVIS: Oh god.

(all groan)

TALIESIN: Trip him again, trip him again.

MARISHA: Trip him again!

LIAM: I'm a dad.

(all laugh)

LAURA: So I bet the fortress--

MATT: Make a will saving throw.

(all laugh)

ASHLEY: Oh my god.

LIAM: What is that? Wisdom?

MATT: Yes.

LIAM: 12.

MATT: Okay, you feel a mental slap as Clarota
glares at you from across the tunnel.

"There'll be none of that in my presence."

TRAVIS: You got bitch-slapped.

MATT: "I hate puns."

(all laugh)

TRAVIS: (high-pitched voice) I hate puns.

LIAM: Noted, noted.

LAURA: So I bet, first fortress you saw, I bet the
one of obsidian was where--

LIAM: Percy's losing his shit.

ORION: There's a bathroom right over there,
Percy.

LAURA: -- where Lady Kima is being held.

ASHLEY: I think--

LAURA: I bet that's the one, because he mentioned
molten lava or something. So she's being held

there and then further in is K'varn.

ASHLEY: Yeah.

ORION: So get there, get K'varn.

MATT: "Yes, Emberhold, yes."

LAURA: Emberhold, yes. Is that an obsidian
fortress?

MATT: "It is black and jagged, I think, yes."

LAURA: Well, let's keep going that way.

MARISHA: So the ultimate question is, are we
heading the right way? Are we heading the right

way, Pike, do you know?

ASHLEY: Can I perception check?

(all laugh)

MATT: You guys are unfamiliar with this tunnel,
Clarota is unfamiliar with this tunnel. All you

know is it's going down. That's better than up.

ASHLEY: I feel like that's the way we need to go.

LAURA: So, just keep going, then?

TALIESIN: Let's keep going.

TRAVIS: Do I need to take off running again?

LAURA: No.

ASHLEY: I think basically we need to go down,
'cause if we go up that means we're going out.

LAURA: Yeah, let's keep going.

TRAVIS: We can go--

MATT: You guys press forward and you begin to
encounter little trickles on the ceiling of

orange, glowing little puddles.

LAURA: Avoid that!

MARISHA: If we learned anything from Minecraft--

(all laugh)

LAURA: Don't touch that.

MATT: Progressing further down, you start seeing
large clusters, little pools of molten rock

beginning to form under certain sections. In a
little ways up, you begin hearing some additional

footsteps to your own. Further down the tunnel.

LAURA: Oh. Can we stealth, can we stealth? And my
favored terrain is the Underdark.

MATT: It is.

LAURA: I don't know what that means, though.

(all laugh)

LAURA: No, no, no, I know. But I don't know what
favored terrain gives me, because I tried to look

it up and couldn't find it.

ASHLEY: You just love it.

LAURA: Does it give me an advantage?

MATT: Here, there's a sheet that has all the
information you need.

LAURA: Oh good, thank you.

ORION: By the way, I take one of the earrings from
Scanlan and give it to Grog.

So Grog, now you've got one of the--

TRAVIS: I've got an earring?

MATT: Scanlan is not happy about this.

ORION: Well? He's not saying anything.

LIAM: Everyone, there's footsteps coming from
ahead. Let Vex'ahlia and I scout ahead.

Wait for a moment.

LAURA: Yes, okay. Let's go.

MATT: Stealth checks, both of you.

LAURA: Yes, finally.

LIAM: 22 for me.

MATT: All right.

LAURA: The same for me, actually. Twinsies.
Sorry.

MATT: All right, so you guys vanish into the
darkness best as you can tell, kind of weaving

between the portions of the tunnel that naturally
shift and give you moments where you can hide up

inside. As you guys hold back, you guys push
ahead, and you can see the little points of

glowing light where these lava pools every 100 or
so feet begin to appear. You begin listening out,

and you hear these footfalls are very heavy, and
the gait of whoever is walking seems to be wider

than that of the normal humanoid.

TRAVIS: Ah, let me play. Please.

LIAM: Well it's definitely not duergar. How far
ahead of us do they sound?

LAURA: Can we see it?

MATT: Probably a good 60, 70 feet. You hear some
muttering.

LAURA: Can I understand what they're saying?

MATT: No.

LIAM: I'm listening, trying to make out how many
sets of footsteps I can hear.

LAURA: And I look on the ground and see if I can
find multiple sets of footsteps as well.

MATT: Looking on the ground, you guys have no
light source currently. It's pitch black.

LIAM: But there's lava spilling and we can see in
dim light.

MATT: Do you want to go to the nearest lava pool?
All right. It's very, very faint visual. You can

see there are a number of tracks, up and down. All
different sizes. This area, this tunnel is

traversed quite a lot. Listening, you hear two
sets of heavy footsteps. And you hear what sounds

like some sort of squeak sound, like a (squeaks).

TRAVIS: Shit.

LIAM: Cart. Could be some sort of device--

MATT: From around the edge, you can just barely
make out these two lumbering humanoid shapes.

LIAM: Can we tell what they are?

LAURA: Oh, he's trying to see if they're seeing
us.

LIAM: Yes.

MATT: They begin to step towards your direction.

LAURA: We back away.

MATT: You guys back and kind of flatten yourself
against the wall.

LIAM: Separate sides.

MATT: You can see they're now both dragging behind
them this small roughshod cart,

with something inside it.

LAURA: We string a rope across the tunnel.

MATT: Okay, you pull it across.

MARISHA: Oh, yeah!

MATT: (deep grumbling and laughter)

LIAM: I also yank my serpentine belt off--

LAURA: Oh!

LIAM: And throw it out, right under the rope.

MATT: Okay.

LAURA: What does that do?

LIAM: Snake.

MATT: So, as he throws the leather, the leather
shifts form suddenly in midair into a serpent that

slips onto the ground, and slithers 
in place, curling up at

the approaching two monolithic entities.

LAURA: That is stupid.

LIAM: Yes, it is.

LAURA: This is gonna go really poorly.

MATT: As they begin to cross in front of you, you
both pull taut on the rope.

LAURA: This is dumb.

MATT: The immediate one falls forward, tripping
face-first on the ground, a heavy (impact sound).

You guys hear in the distance this loud thud,
impact sound.

LAURA: And we call, I go, Grog!

TRAVIS: I'm raging.

LIAM: And I leap out, daggers at the fallen one.

MATT: All right.

MARISHA: Run!

MATT: You guys come rushing in, let's go ahead and
roll initiative.

TALIESIN: Yeah!

TRAVIS: I raged.

MATT: I figured you were raging.

TRAVIS: Well, you know, when the ladies call my
name.

TALIESIN: That sucks.

MARISHA: That's not too bad, could be worse.

ORION: Yes, sounds good.

MARISHA: What are we fighting? What are we
fighting?

LAURA: I know, right? Oh god, here we go.

MARISHA: What are we fighting, we don't know.

LAURA: Oh! Lava pools.

TALIESIN: Lava pools.

MARISHA: Lava pools, Lava pools.

TRAVIS: Wow.

ASHLEY: Wow.

MARISHA: Grog, you better be throwing bitches into
that lava.

TRAVIS: Last time I tried to do somebody
to something, I did it to myself, so.

LIAM: Hashtag bitches in lava?

MARISHA: Hashtag bitches in lava!

MATT: You guys, coming in this way.

MARISHA: Bitches in lava, bitches in lava.

ASHLEY and LAURA: Oh god!

ORION: She's excited about the lava.

LIAM: I got 99 problems and a troll ain't one.

LAURA: Are they trolls, are they ogres?

MATT: They are two giant ogres.

LAURA: Oh, god, one's on the ground.

TRAVIS: Oh, shit.

LAURA: It's huge, these are really big.

MATT: One is back here and one's just fallen over
there.

ASHLEY: Holy cow.

MATT: And they are carrying some sort of large
cart-like object, I'll just say for now.

LAURA: This is so dumb, why did we do this?

TALIESIN: This is a d20.

MATT: Let's say it's about there. All right.

TRAVIS: What's in the cart?

MATT: So, initiative order, guys?

LAURA: Do we get the surprise at all?

MATT: You do, actually! I'm rolling initiative, so
we have the order. You guys are gonna have a full

round of surprise on them first.

LAURA: Okay, cool.

MATT: All right, so, 25 to 20?

LAURA: Oh, man, really?

MATT: 20 to 15?

ORION: 19.

LAURA: 15.

LIAM: 15.

ORION: I got scared and I cast Stoneskin
immediately.

ASHLEY: Cast what?

ORION: Stoneskin.

MATT: So Vex and Vax, both at 15?

LAURA: Yeah.

LIAM: 15, yeah.

LIAM and LAURA: Oh!

MATT: 15 to ten?

TALIESIN: 13.

MARISHA: 13 as well.

ASHLEY: 11.

LAURA: Oh no, Grog, what did you roll?

TRAVIS: I farted when I rolled, I rolled a 9.

MATT: Oh! Grog.

ASHLEY: Greg.

ORION: How much does the ogre weigh? Or the ogres,
as you said?

MATT: The ogres, each one weighs nearly a ton.

TRAVIS: Oh, shit, really?

LAURA: Oh, they're huge.

TRAVIS: So, like, 200 pounds.

MATT and LIAM: Yes.

LIAM: Yes, exactly.

MATT: Yes, Grog, close to that.

LAURA: Yes, Grog.

MATT: All right, let's go fast here. Here we go.
All right, so, top of the round-- No! Surprise

round for both of you guys first, as the rest 
of you rush in, so Vex and Vax,

you guys get a surprise round.

LAURA: Awesome.

LIAM: I'm already jumping in the air, so I'm gonna
go.

MATT: To the guy on the ground.

LIAM: Okay, and this, since it's a surprise, it's
automatic crit?

MATT: Yes!

LAURA: Oh, nice.

MARISHA: Hell, yeah!

MATT: He's on the ground, so you get advantage on
your attack rolls.

LIAM: Okay, okay, all right, so that's 28.

MATT: That definitively hits.

LIAM: Yeah, 1d4 for-- this is my poison dagger.
Two, eight, okay, I'm doing my Sneak Attack

damage, here we go, four, nine, 12, 18, yeah, 23.
Total for that, 62 points of damage.

MATT: 62 points of damage.

LAURA: Wow.

MATT: You leap on and entirely eviscerate the
ogre. You jumped onto his back, slashing the back

of his torso. As you pull open the flesh, you
expose the back of the ribcage, and he goes into

this kind of gurgling sound as it dies immediately
on the spot.

LAURA, MARISHA and ASHLEY: Oh, what?

LIAM: And I use my bonus action to hide.

MATT: Okay.

TRAVIS: Do you wanna talk to the other one, since--

LAURA: 62.

MATT: Okay, roll and make a stealth check.

LIAM: Natural 20.

ORION: Nice.

MATT: All right.

LIAM: See you later, motherfuckers.

MATT: The ogre is right there. There is the ogre
on the ground, big squishy ogre.

LAURA: What?

TRAVIS: Big squishy ogre.

MATT: It's considered rough terrain, because now
you have to go over this giant dead body in the

middle of the-- All right, your turn.

LAURA: I Hunter's Mark him, and I'm gonna shoot
him with the explosive arrow.

TALIESIN: Yeah!

TRAVIS: I like it.

LAURA: So I'm gonna see if it hits. I'm gonna use
the blazing bowstring. That's a 22.

MATT: 22 definitely hits.

LAURA: Okay. Also, blazing bowstring that gives me
a plus d10. So, okay, 14 plus d10,

wait, that's a ten? Yeah!

LIAM: That's a ten.

LAURA: Plus 19 and then Hunter's Mark! Plus six!

LIAM: Ah yes!

MATT: 25.

LAURA: 25, plus whatever the explosive damage is.

MATT: So! As you pull the arrow out, it's a little
wonky, it's actually, what you rolled, it's a

minus four penalty to hit with it, but you still
manage to hit because it's a big creature, even

though it's in very big darkness, you-- you know,
in darkness you ignore partial cover.

LAURA: Right!

LIAM: Bellybutton.

MATT: You fire it. It arcs slightly, smacks in the
side of its chest and stomach area. It's this

cacophonous explosion sound that rocks the
immediate vicinity.

TALIESIN: Whoa! Yes!

TRAVIS: Yes!

MATT: It takes an additional 2d8 points of
explosive damage.

MARISHA: Ooh!

TALIESIN: Yeah!

ORION: Nice.

MATT: Nine points, and everything around it also
takes the additional damage--

LAURA: Oh shit!

MATT: -- the whole radius does.

LAURA: Oh, I hope I didn't blow up the cart.

MATT: The cart-- the wood on the wheels had
shatters and breaks, it falls to one side. What

you see, some sort of a glass container that was
at the back of the cart shatters and cracks.

LAURA: (gasps) Oh no.

MARISHA: Oh.

TALIESIN: I'm still happy.

LAURA: Welp?

LIAM: Still pretty cool, still pretty cool.

MARISHA: Collateral damage. It's bound to happen.

MATT: Top of the round. Tiberius.

LAURA: Oh, and can I move away?

MATT: You can move if you want. Yeah.

LAURA: Yeah, I move back.

MATT: Back to here?

LAURA: Yeah. Sounds good.

TRAVIS: Where's your pointer?

MATT: Use your pointer if you need it.

LAURA: Oh right! Well, there.

MATT: All right. Tiberius, you're up first.

ORION: Very good! I'll take a few steps forward
and be like, well, this is poppycock! And I'll

shoot a Scorching Ray right at the dude.

MATT: All right, go for it, roll for the attack.

LAURA: Does anybody speak Ogre? Nobody speaks
Ogre, though. We can't talk to him.

TRAVIS: No.

LIAM: They're dumber than Grog is.

ORION: So what am I rolling?

MATT: Do you ignore partial cover?

ORION: Oh! Like can I just in general?

MATT: I mean, did you take that feat?

ORION: No.

MATT: No. Okay. So yeah. So you're rolling-- okay,
so yeah. So what did you roll to hit?

ORION: I rolled all three at once. 'Cause I have
to do one for each.

MATT: Right, yeah.

ORION: So I got a 12, a 13, and a 12.

MATT: Okay. All three rays unfortunately miss--

ORION: Damn it!

MATT: -- due to the darkness in this room it's
very hard to see, other than the slight glow from

the lava. So you fire all three rays, and you see
them streak through, and each one gives off just

enough light from the actual flaming ray to glow
to the vicinity, but not the actual target. You

see them both streak off and slam the wall on the
opposite side.

ORION: Wait, do I add my dex on those?

MATT: You add your spell modifier.

ORION: (whispers) What's my spell modifier?

MATT: It's on top of your spell page!

ORION: Oh! Oh, no, I'm sorry, 20-- plus nine on
all that.

MATT: Good to know.

ORION: Yeah, sorry.

MATT: All three hit. Go ahead and roll damage.

ORION: Okay.

MATT: There you go.

ORION: Okay, first one does five--

MATT: It's his first time casting spells, guys.
(mouths) It's not.

TRAVIS: Yeah.

ORION: -- plus five, ten! I rarely do this one,
kids.

LIAM: It's part of his charm.

ORION: Ten on the first one.

MATT: All right.

ORION: 17 on the second one. And 17 on the second
one.

LAURA: He's so dead!

MATT: Okay, is there a saving throw for half
damage?

ORION: No! I mean, 12 on the third one.

MATT: Is there a saving throw on this one, or is
it just straight damage?

ORION: Yeah, straight damage.

MATT: Okay, cool, gotcha. All right.

ORION: Yes!

MATT: All right, so you, you blast the ogre with
three. As each explosion hits, you see the

rippling of its kind of grotesque flesh from the
impact, the third one blasting off a portion of

its shoulder, exposing this meaty bone and blood.
It gives out this horrible (roars) into the tunnel

itself, causing just the atmosphere to shake, as
bits of stone begin to rumble and fall from the

ceiling. All right, that ends your turn?

ORION: Yeah!

MATT: Still standing. Barely. It's now its turn.

LAURA: (gasps)

MATT: It steps away.

LIAM: (whispers) You can't see me.

LAURA: Over the dead body of his brethren.

MATT: To that point. It's just going to charge
through,

as all it can see is the figures in the distance.

MARISHA: Pick me.

MATT: That's where it is. At which point, the cart
seems to shift slightly.

TRAVIS: Oh shit.

LAURA: Oh no, what did we do?

LIAM: Oh dear, something's coming out of the jar.

MARISHA: What did we open?

LAURA: Oh, god. We let something out.

MATT: You can see something slowly-- dark
something--

ORION: I thought it was going to be a good thing!

MATT: -- amorphous and liquid in nature beginning
to shift in the shadow.

MARISHA: Oh, great.

LAURA: Does it-- Oh no-- Is it on fire so we can
see--

LIAM: No.

LAURA: -- is it on fire so we can see what it is?

MATT: No.

LIAM: No.

TALIESIN: Oh my god!

LAURA: The cart wasn't on fire?

LIAM: It's dangerous! It's dangerous! It's fucking
dangerous!

MATT: It's just this giant, black, liquid--

MARISHA: What is that?

MATT: -- ooze-like creature.

LIAM: It's black ooze. It's dangerous!

MARISHA: We just opened Pandora's box.

LAURA: This is really, really bad!

LIAM: It's fucking dangerous.

LAURA: I'm sorry I exploded it.

MARISHA: Great. That's good. Good.

LIAM: Stay away from it. Stay away from it. Stay
away from it.

TRAVIS: So go wrestle it?

ASHLEY: So go jump in it, is what you're saying.

LIAM: French kiss that shit!

TRAVIS: It's mine!

LAURA: (whispers) Don't attack it.

TRAVIS: Don't attack it?

LAURA: I'm scared of it.

MARISHA: Black ooze.

LIAM: Ranged attacks.

MATT: All right.

LAURA: What does a black ooze do?

LIAM: Fire and ranged attacks.

MARISHA: How do I handle that?

MATT: So! That brings us to--

TALIESIN: Fire?

LIAM: Think!

MATT: Scanlan. Scanlan.

LAURA: Oh no, oh god, Scanlan.

MATT: I know you're out there, Scanlan.

LAURA: Do something amazing, Scanlan!

LIAM: Sing, Sam! Sing!

MATT: Scanlan's going to go ahead and sing a song
of inspiration to--

I'd say Grog just in case he needs to-

TALIESIN: (sings) When we have to fight the ooze,
you'll never have to lose.

TRAVIS: What?

LAURA: You received an inspiration.

TRAVIS: Oh good, yeah, thank you. It's an eight,
right?

MATT: Yeah, it's a d8 inspiration dice.

LAURA: I want some food. I'm so hungry.

LIAM: (sings) We're up all night in the dark,
we're up all night in the dark.

TALIESIN and MARISHA: (sing) We're up all night in
the dark.

ORION: Is that what Sam would do?

MATT: Scanlan is then going to cast Invisibility
on himself

as an immediate self-sustaining reaction.

LIAM: Oh shit, the music! The music!

MATT: That brings us to Vex!

LAURA: Me?

MATT: Yes.

LIAM: Ranged attack, ranged attack.

LAURA: Okay, on the thingie?

MARISHA: Pew pew.

ORION: Take out the ogre first.

LAURA: Okay. Well I'm gonna Lightning Bolt the
black ooze!

MATT: Okay.

LIAM: Sounds good.

LAURA: Okay. Which--

MATT: So you Lightning Arrow.

LAURA: Yes, I do.

Okay.

Oh, and, oh, the other-- never mind, that
other guy's still Hunter's Marked. Okay.

MARISHA: Well, yeah.

LIAM: Hit it, hit it, hit it.

LAURA: Okay, that's good.

LIAM: Yes, it is!

LAURA: That's a 19 plus-- that's a regular attack
bonus, right?

LIAM: It's a crit.

LAURA: Was it?

LIAM: Isn't 19-20 crit? That's just for me.

MATT: No, that's just for you.

LAURA: That's just for you, yo.

MATT: Yeah, so that hits.

LAURA: Okay. So.

MARISHA: What if it's like a sentient alien
lifeform?

ASHLEY: This music is so stressful!

LAURA: Okay, 4d8 of lightning damage.

MARISHA: You know, like some Spiderman shit.

MATT: Go ahead and roll the arrow damage.

MARISHA: Some alien lifeform shit.

TALIESIN: Well, we should kill it.

LAURA: Oh, okay.

MARISHA: Yeah.

LAURA: Just kidding, I'm just so excited! 11.

MATT: Okay.

LAURA: Okay. And the 4d8 of lightning damage.

MATT: As the arrow disappears into its form--

LAURA: No.

MATT: -- the bolt of energy, as you pull out the
arrow and release it, it sparks and you can see

the blue energy kind of streaking behind the
arrow. It plunges into this thick, black, gooey

mass and as it does, the lightning just gets
absorbed into its form.

TRAVIS: Oh, shit balls.

MATT: It sits for a second, shakes and quivers,
and then splits.

MARISHA: Oh! No.

LAURA: Splits?

LIAM: Yeah, it splits into smaller ones. Smaller
sizes.

MATT: Dividing into two separate smaller slimes.

TALIESIN: No!

LAURA: What is this thing?

MATT: Seemingly unaffected by the damage of the
lightning. Other than the fact that you altered

its form slightly.

LAURA: Great. Cool. Awesome.

MATT: So, do you wish to move?

LAURA: Oh, yeah! I back the eff up. Actually,
should-- yeah, yeah. I'm gonna back up.

To there sounds good.

MATT: All right!

That brings us to-- Vax, you're up.

LIAM: All right, I'm gonna run up to the back of
Tall and Ugly, and try to stab him. I'm gonna do

the reach-around again, and try to stab him in the
eyes.

ORION and ASHLEY: The ol' reach-around.

LIAM: And I'm hidden-- I'm stealth already, I
think, right?

ORION: Courteous!

MATT: You are, yes.

TRAVIS: It's like his character move.

TALIESIN: The stealthy reach-around.

TRAVIS: Action figure Vax'ahlia.

LIAM: So the first attack is an 18.

TALIESIN: The stealthy reach-around.

LAURA: That's Vax'ildan.

MATT: Hits.

TRAVIS: Sorry. Vax'ildan.

LIAM: Okay, Sneak Attack, here we go.

TRAVIS: The signature reach-around move!

LIAM: For the eyeballs. Two plus seven is--

LAURA: I'm sorry I let the ooze loose.

TALIESIN: It's okay.

LIAM: 40. 52.

MATT: 52. As you reach behind, the daggers plunge
into it, and the ogre lumbering over doesn't have

any more to its life. Its jaw just goes slack as
it releases the last bit of air in its lungs,

tumbling forward, piling onto his friend.

LIAM: As it does, I want to use my bonus action to
spring off his shoulders towards my friends.

MATT: Okay. Okay.

LAURA: That's good.

MATT: This direction? All right, go ahead and make
an acrobatics check.

LIAM: Sure.

LAURA: Over the lava pit.

TRAVIS: Kill it.

LAURA: Don't fall in the lava pit.

LIAM: That's a 15.

MATT: 15, okay. You barely manage to catch your
footing. Thank god you didn't roll a one. That

would've been very bad. This ogre then plummets to
the ground, now piling on top of his friend.

LAURA: Okay, that's good.

MATT: So now that whole section there is
considered rough terrain.

All right, that brings us to Percy!

TALIESIN: Okay, I'm going to try something weird,
here.

TRAVIS: Oh no.

TALIESIN: Where am I? Okay. I'm going to step
forward and to the right a bit. Just sort of

joining this little-- like getting right in here.
And I'm going to try and shoot, and this is gonna

sound weird, but as I'm running I'm going to--
Actually, back me up to about there.

MATT: There?

TALIESIN: I'm going to try and shoot about right
here, I'm gonna try and unleash the lava to send

the lava-- to see if I can get it to start flowing
towards. Does that make sense?

MATT: I will tell you, the pool of lava right
there isn't brimming really close to the surface.

TALIESIN: Oh, it's just down?

MATT: It would take a significant impact to carve
anything that would release it.

TALIESIN: Okay, well--

MATT: It's self-contained.

TALIESIN: -- I've come forward enough, I'm gonna
take a shot at one of these guys, then.

MATT: Okay. This one, or this one?

TALIESIN: That one.

MATT: Okay. Go ahead and roll for attack--

TALIESIN: I'm gonna try something else. I'm gonna
try an ice shot.

MATT: Ice shot. Okay.

TALIESIN: 15?

MATT: 15?

LIAM: (sneezes dramatically)

LAURA: Bless you.

MATT: 15 hits!

TALIESIN: Oh my god. All right, and that's a--

TRAVIS: 15 hits.

LAURA: 15 hits.

TRAVIS: Let's just take it.

LAURA: Well, what else are we gonna do with it?

TALIESIN: -- that's 15 points of damage, plus six
points of ice damage.

MATT: Okay. The bullet pierces his form. You can
see a part of its gelatinous, physical structure

quiver. The ice explosion, you see go off, and
just get absorbed into the gelatinous form.

MARISHA: Fuck.

TALIESIN: Fuck!

MATT: Seemingly unaffected by the additional
damage. That's your first shot.

You get two shots, don't you?

TALIESIN: That's right. Oh, good god.

MARISHA: But it didn't split, right?

MATT and ORION: Nope.

MARISHA: That's cool. It's a perk.

TALIESIN: Yeah, no, that's-- Okay. I'm going to
attempt to-- Is there any loose-looking rocks that

are up above? Or is there anything that looks
like, if I gave it a push,

would fall down, from up above?

MATT: This tunnel looks pretty, at this point,
pretty cleanly carved out.

LAURA: What about the areas I exploded?

MATT: Over there? I mean, there's parts of the
rock, but the explosion was more damaging to

things that were fragile--

LAURA: Okay, okay.

MATT: -- the stonework is pretty solid.

TALIESIN: I'm gonna take another shot at the same
one and see what happens.

MATT: Okay, go for it.

TALIESIN: 20, that hits.

MATT: Yep! Damage.

TALIESIN: Not a lot. That's seven points of
damage.

MATT: Okay. Gotcha. Both shots into it. You see
its form kind of quiver at the impact, but it's

still slowly slithering forward. Now comes to
Keyleth!

MARISHA: Okay. I wanna move, kind of be like,
whoops, sorry, 'scuse me, pardon me, and come like

heresies. Would you say that I'm 30 feet away from
that guy?

MATT: Just barely. Like, he's just in the cusp of
30 feet from you.

MARISHA: Will my Thorn Whip reach him? My
30-foot-range Thorn Whip?

MATT: You can certainly try!

MARISHA: I'm gonna try and Thorn Whip him!

MATT: Okay!

LIAM: (Cosby voice) You see, the black goo
thing--

MATT: What's the Thorn Whip do?

LIAM: -- is not so easy to kill.

(all laugh)

MARISHA: Huh?

MATT: What's the Thorn Whip do? Read the spell for
me.

ASHLEY: Too soon?

LAURA: Too soon?

MARISHA: Well, it does 2d6 damage, it's a 30-foot
range, and it pulls 10 feet. Notes I have on it--

Okay-- piercing damage-- if they are large or
smaller,

you pull the creature up to ten feet closer.

MATT: What type of damage is it?

MARISHA: Piercing.

MATT: Okay. Gotcha. All right. So, you hit, go
ahead and roll damage.

MARISHA: I hit. I don't hit. That's funny. Okay.

MATT: You rolled a 20, right?

MARISHA: I didn't roll yet.

MATT: Oh, you didn't roll yet. Sorry.

MARISHA: No.

MATT: Okay, go ahead and roll to hit.

MARISHA: What do I add, my spell modifier?

MATT: Yep.

MARISHA: 18.

MATT: Yeah, you hit.

LAURA: Woo!

ASHLEY: Woo!

MATT: So, go ahead and roll damage.

MARISHA: 19, sorry, it's actually 19.

MATT: That still hits! It doesn't move very fast,
it's a little easy to hit.

LAURA: Okay, that's good.

MATT: All right, takes its damage.

MARISHA: One piercing damage, but I pull him ten
feet closer to me. Does he go into the lava?

MATT: Gets pushed just ever so slightly into the
hole. As it does, you can see this blackish steam

and smoke begin to billow up from where it hits,
and it (growls).

LAURA: Good!

MATT: -- begins to quiver as you're kind of
yanking it back with the Thorn Whip.

LIAM: What was that sound it made again?

MATT: (growls)

(all laugh)

MATT: It takes 2d10 points of damage--

LAURA: Woo!

MATT: -- from the impact of the lava. That's an
additional 17 points of fire damage to it.

TALIESIN: That's nice.

LIAM: Yes!

LAURA: Fire damage!

ASHLEY: Nice!

LIAM: Aw, yes!

LAURA: Kill it with fire!

MARISHA: And I've got him on a leash now.

LIAM: Burn it!

MATT: You do. Is it considered grappled?

MARISHA: Nope.

MATT: Then that would be the end of the attack.
The spell dissipates after that.

MARISHA: Oh, okay.

MATT: You've gotta do it again the next turn.

MARISHA: Okay.

LIAM: Hey, that was pretty good.

LAURA: Yep.

MATT: All right. That ends your turn, Pike, you're
up!

ASHLEY: Okay. So, question. I want to use
something I think that I can use called-- this may

be stupid, so I have another option if this is
dumb.

TRAVIS: That's what it's called?

LAURA: (laughs)

ASHLEY: Yes.

ORION: That's a weird spell!

LIAM: So long!

ASHLEY: Something called 'Insect Plague'.

MATT: Okay.

MARISHA: Ooh, yeah!

ASHLEY: Which you can use as a ranged attack in a
20-foot-radius sphere?

MATT: Yes. So, you do it at range, and it creates
a 20-foot radius that does this.

ASHLEY: Okay, and then it's a 1d10-- creature
takes 4d10 piercing damage-- oh, on a failed save,

or half as much damage on a successful one.

LAURA: Okay.

MATT: Cool! So there's that, yeah.

LIAM: Very Old Testament!

ASHLEY: So, I think--

MATT: Do you wanna move--

LAURA: Yeah, do it!

ASHLEY: Okay, you know, let's give it a try!

LAURA: And then we can see what it does to
creatures within its zone!

MATT: Where do you wanna go, girl?

ASHLEY: Okay, so, where am I? I'm sorry, I can't
see.

MATT: You're right over here. It's your gold
base.

ASHLEY: So, where do I need to be to do it-- like
over here?

LIAM: Get closer.

LAURA: Maybe up next to the ogre dead.

LIAM: Gotta run up.

MATT: Okay. One, two, three, four. That's about as
close as you can get there, yeah.

ASHLEY: Okay. So can I still get it there?

MATT: Yeah, you can cast it. Where do you want to
put the radius?

ASHLEY: Are these all five?

ORION: Yeah.

MATT: These are all five-foot squares.

ASHLEY: Okay, so can I--

LIAM: I'd just like to point out, this is like the
Avengers trailer, where all the heroes run out and

jump at the same time.

(all laugh)

LAURA: Yeah.

MATT: Yeah. Yeah, you can get these both from
there.

ASHLEY: Okay, so I'll try to get them both.

MATT: Okay, all right, so--

ASHLEY: So then ten.

MATT: So you go ahead and roll the damage.

ASHLEY: Okay, so how-- Wait, how many do I roll,
again? At fifth level?

MATT: You're casting this as a fifth-level spell?

ASHLEY: Well, maybe I shouldn't--

MATT: It's up to you.

LAURA: Yeah, do it.

ASHLEY: Okay, I'll do it.

LIAM: Do it, do it, try it.

ASHLEY: But do I save a healing?

LIAM: Do it.

LAURA: Go for it, Pike.

LIAM: Come on, you're a warrior.

MATT: It's up to you, Pike. You do what you gotta
do.

ASHLEY: Okay, so-- Cool, one.

LAURA: Ten.

LIAM: Ten.

ASHLEY: Ten, 11.

LAURA: 18.

ASHLEY: 19.

MATT: Okay.

ASHLEY: So how many do I roll? That was three--

MATT: It gets to make a saving throw to see if it
gets half damage.

ASHLEY: So I roll another one then--

LAURA: Yeah, four. She gets four.

MATT: What's--

ASHLEY: I roll, I roll four. Hold on. 19.

LAURA: 25.

LIAM: 25.

ASHLEY: 25.

MATT: Okay, what's the DC? What's your spell DC at
the top of your spell sheet?

ASHLEY: Eight plus-- Or-- No, sorry, sorry, sorry,
sorry.

MATT: DC should be--

ASHLEY: 16.

LIAM: That's better.

MATT: 16, okay, one makes its save, the other
doesn't.

ASHLEY: Okay.

MATT: So what's the total damage?

LAURA: 25.

ASHLEY: 25.

MATT: Okay, so one takes 25, one takes 13.

ORION: Cool.

TALIESIN: Wow.

MATT: Piercing damage. Got it. And, just, insects
appear in the area, doing that much damage. Does

that stay? Or does that go away at the end of your
turn?

ASHLEY: Let's see here.

MATT: What's the duration?

ASHLEY: Concentration. Up to ten minutes.

MATT: So you can keep it there if you want to.

LAURA: Ooh.

ASHLEY: I'll just keep it.

MATT: It just does damage every turn to everything
in that radius.

ASHLEY: Awesome, let's just keep it.

MATT: Okay.

ASHLEY: I'm just really concentrating.

MATT: That ends your turn. Grog, you're up.

TRAVIS: Right, I would like to pull the flaming
hammer out of the bag of holding.

LAURA: Yeah.

TRAVIS: And I would like to run at the-- this
little-- this guy.

ORION: No, you'll get in the insect cloud.

TRAVIS: What?

ORION: You'll get in the insect cloud.

MATT: All right. One, two, three, four.

LAURA: Stay away from the insect cloud.

TRAVIS: I forgot there was an insect cloud.

MATT: Five, six, seven, eight. That's as far as
you can get, currently.

TRAVIS: Oh, because there are bodies in the way?

MATT: Because of the rough terrain, and you have
to jump over the bodies to get there.

LAURA: Wait, but my natural ability--

TRAVIS: Then if that's as far as I can get, I
would like to take the hooded lantern I have out

of the bag of holding and throw it--

LAURA: Difficult terrain does not slow my group's
travel when this is my favored terrain.

MARISHA: Ooh!

(all cheer)

TRAVIS: Yes!

MATT: Nice one. Boom, boom, boom. So you just go
charging up overtop the ogre bodies, leaping,

coming down with the-- hammer, you said?

TRAVIS: Yes, with the flaming hammer.

LIAM: Oh man, you the real MVP.

TRAVIS: -- activating the flaming properties of
rage, and urine, and death.

MATT: Okay.

TALIESIN: Flame on.

(all laugh)

ORION: Rage, urine, and death.

LIAM: Wow.

LAURA: Don't get touched by it. Don't let it touch
you.

TRAVIS: We'll see.

ASHLEY: Don't let it touch you.

LIAM: Work those rules.

MATT: Go for it. So go ahead and roll for attack.
You have three attacks with this, at--

MARISHA: Rage, urine, and death.

MATT: Are you frenzying or regular rage?

TRAVIS: Raging, raging, rage. Just regular rage.

MATT: Okay, so you get two attacks.

TRAVIS: Yeah. 19.

MATT: 19 hits.

TRAVIS: And 12.

MATT: 12 also hits.

(all cheer)

TRAVIS: Awesome. And this is a 1d--

MATT: And damage, are you using it two-handed?

TRAVIS: Yeah.

MATT: 1d10 damage.

TRAVIS: 1d10.

MATT: Plus whatever the fire damage is on the
weapon.

TRAVIS: That can't be right.

MATT: What did you roll?

MARISHA: What? What the dice rolled?

TRAVIS: 1d10? Is this the right dice?

TALIESIN: If you rolled zero, you rolled a ten.

LAURA: If it's a zero, it's a ten.

MARISHA: Yeah.

TRAVIS: It's a 30.

LAURA: Oh, that's a three. He rolled the--

MATT: Yeah.

TRAVIS: I was like, 30!

MATT: So, three plus your proficiency modifier,
which is four.

TRAVIS: Yeah. Seven.

MATT: No, this is for damage, so the damage would
be plus your strength modifier.

TRAVIS: Oh, four.

MATT: Yeah, so four still. So seven.

TRAVIS: And plus seven for rage.

MATT: Plus two for rage.

TRAVIS: Plus two for rage.

MATT: Yeah, so whatever the bonus is to your
greataxe--

TRAVIS: Yeah.

MATT: What's that?

TRAVIS: Oh, it's-- to the greataxe is seven when
I'm raging.

MATT: So then ten points of damage, then roll the
fire damage as well.

TRAVIS: Okay.

LIAM: How is he keeping all of this in his mind?
It's like a computer in his brain.

LAURA: I know.

TRAVIS: Is that a 1d10 also? 1d10?

MATT: It should say on the actual magical item.

TRAVIS: Yep, yep. 1d6.

MATT: So 1d6 additional fire damage.

TRAVIS: Five.

MATT: All right, so 15 points of damage total from
the first strike. Go ahead and roll damage from

the second one.

TRAVIS: Oh, Jesus. Seven.

MATT: So 14, plus an additional 1d6.

LIAM: Grog, math hard.

TRAVIS: Three.

MATT: All right, cool. All right, so as you come
running over, leaping in the air, over the ogre

bodies, you then slam the hammer once in the side,
the fire catching on the metal, on the black iron

as it streaks through the air, lighting up the
cavern around you.

LAURA: Yeah!

MATT: You guys see this, like, red arc, as Grog
comes slamming down into the ooze.

ORION: Fire hammer!

MATT: First one, it hits, boom, smacks, the flames
ignite, and the impact, you see it kind of freaks

out and quivers backwards, screeching sound. As it
does, there's a splash of the black ichor that

hits your shoulders--

LAURA: (gasps) No!

MATT: -- and you feel it burn and bite into your
torso. You take ten points of acid damage.

TRAVIS: Oh, shit.

LAURA: Acid.

ASHLEY: Acid.

MATT: You reach back, not even thinking in the
frenzy in your brain, you feel like, just seeing

blood and red in your eyes, as you slam down your
second strike.

ASHLEY: Grog is gonna start tripping.

MATT: You feel the second impact. Once again, you
feel the spray of black across your body. You take

an additional ten points of acid damage.

TRAVIS: Up close sucks.

LIAM: That's nothing for Grog, that's nothing.

ASHLEY: Nothing, nothing.

MARISHA: Nothing, he likes it, feels good.

TRAVIS: I'm pretty low.

MATT: That ends Grog's turn.

LAURA: You're low? On health? Have you not healed
at all?

LIAM: No, we stayed up and kept watch.

MARISHA: Just helped with that itch you couldn't
scratch.

LAURA: Jeez Louise.

TRAVIS: No, I'm fine.

MATT: On this turn, this one pulls out of the
lava--

LAURA: No.

MATT: Takes an additional 2d10 from being in at
the start of its turn. An additional eight damage,

and moves up, both of them flank over to Grog.

TRAVIS: Come to me, woodland creatures.

MATT: Both of them attempting to strike you from
each side. As you're flanked,

that is a 20 versus armor class.

TRAVIS: That will hit.

MATT: And a 21 versus armor class.

TRAVIS: That'll hit, too.

MARISHA: You're being attacked by jello.

MATT: All right, both of the creatures, they
(oozing sound) up next to you. These pseudopods

kind of come billowing out, slamming into you with
the force of an extremely thick, heavy battering

ram. Both hit you for-- let's see, here--

TRAVIS: You broke in their glass casket.

MATT: One hits you for 12 points of damage--

LAURA: Oh.

TRAVIS: Okay.

MATT: The other hits you for 14 points of damage.

TRAVIS: Okay.

MATT: Remember, you're raging, so that's halved.

TRAVIS: Oh, halved. Both of those?

MATT: Yeah.

TRAVIS: Awesome.

LIAM: Tank.

ASHLEY: He still has more than me.

MATT: However, both impacts slamming into your
body, the leftover sludge begins to eat away and

corrode the flesh upon impact. You take from both
sides-- non-halved, because it is not slashing,

bludgeoning, or piercing damage-- you take a total
of 56 points of acid damage.

TALIESIN: What?

ASHLEY: What?

LAURA: What?

MATT: From both slams.

TRAVIS: That's gross.

LAURA: (gasps) Grog's unconscious.

TRAVIS: No, I'm not.

LAURA: You're not?

LIAM: Double that? Double that, or that?

MATT: No, from both sides. 28 from each.

ASHLEY: How many have you got?

TRAVIS: 14.

LAURA: Oh my god.

TRAVIS: Okay, so little piles of shit have got
huevos.

ASHLEY: Wait, and I can't--

MATT: Clarota moves from here, up to here.

LAURA: Clarota, save us!

MARISHA: Really bad jello. It's, like, fridge
experiment jello.

TALIESIN: Coffee jello.

MARISHA: Coffee jello?

ASHLEY: Grog!

TRAVIS: That's me, all smart with the fire
hammer.

MATT: Hey, it did damage, didn't it?

TRAVIS: It certainly did something.

MATT: It certainly did something

Clarota is going to move forward and is
going to attempt a-- It's kind of close-- He is

going to attempt a Lightning Bolt against this guy
here.

MARISHA: No.

LAURA: Don't do a Lightning Bolt! What? Why would
Clarota use a Lightning Bolt when he saw that the

lightning did not work for me?

MATT: Clarota did not see.

LAURA: Ugh.

MARISHA: Clarota didn't see? Where was Clarota?

MATT: Way back here.

LIAM: He has to look. He was hanging back.

LAURA: Clarota is trying to screw with us.

MARISHA: Why was he trailing? What the fuck?

LIAM: Nah, he was hanging back.

MARISHA: He's a slacker.

LIAM: He's weak.

MARISHA: He's a fucking slacker.

ORION: That's right, he's weak.

LIAM: He's got this, but he doesn't have this.
He's weak, he's hanging back.

MARISHA: All right.

LIAM: What is the deal with the mind flayer?

MATT: I would recommend not arguing with the DM.

ORION: Right.

TRAVIS: Yeah, right.

MARISHA: I'm not arguing with the DM, I'm calling
Clarota a slacker.

MATT: Clarota, as it released the bolt of energy,
it streaks past, through the air. It arcs into the

side of the entity, which then absorbs it.
Clarota's eyes go wide for a second.

Nervous, it looks at its hands, and puts
them back underneath its robe. As it does--

LAURA: Fudge!

MARISHA: Damn it, Clarota.

MATT: The entity divides once again.

LAURA: God! Darn it.

MATT: Into two more--

LAURA: What is that?

TRAVIS: Oh, shit.

LAURA: What is happening?

TRAVIS: Balls.

TALIESIN: Oh, god.

MATT: That ends its turn. At this point in time,
now the loud ruckus

has been glaring through this tunnel--

LIAM: Shit.

MATT: You hear (clicking sound).

LIAM: Shit.

TRAVIS: Ah, not an umber hulk.

LAURA: Is it another one of those--

MATT: A pair of clacking sounds. And you, as soon
as you look up at the ceiling and you see two

large creatures clinging to the ceiling, scurrying
across with these strange hooked hands, before

both immediately leap down from the ceiling.

TRAVIS: We're in big trouble.

TALIESIN: Jesus Christ.

LIAM: Oh, man.

LAURA: Are you freaking kidding me?

MARISHA: What are those? What is that?

LAURA: He's trying to kill us.

ORION: Oh.

LAURA: What is this?

MATT: These two large, armored, beak-faced
subterranean creatures with shells on their backs

and giant hooked arms leap down from the ceiling.

LAURA: We're gonna die.

MATT: One is going to attempt to strike with both
of its hook attacks at Pike.

LAURA: Pike isn't here!

MATT: This is one is moving over Tiberius.

LIAM: Oh, Tiberius, our soft, vulnerable spot.

ORION: What are you talking about?

MATT: So, against Pike, that is 21.

LAURA: Hits.

TRAVIS: Hits.

MATT: And 13.

TRAVIS: Misses.

LAURA: Misses.

MATT: All right, you take 11 points of piercing
damage.

LAURA: Okay.

MATT: Wherever she is. And the other one misses,
clanging against the armor. The hook scrapes

across metal, leaving this extremely loud sound.
The other one goes twice against Tiberius.

That is a 16.

ORION: A 17.

MATT: And a nine. Both miss. Barely getting out of
the way. This giant, large, armored creature.

ASHLEY: Falling from the ceiling.

MATT: Right there, take a look-- All right, that
ends that, so top of the round.

Tiberius, you're up.

ORION: Oh, I look at him with a funky grin.

MATT: All right.

ORION: It's a funky one. How much does he weigh?
800 pounds?

MATT: Pretty heavy. Say probably close to 500-600
pounds.

ORION: Ah, beautiful. I cast Telekinesis and I
hurl him over my head and chuck him at the other

one. I want to get him away from Pike. I don't
think I can throw him that far. How far away is he

from the lava, actually?

MATT: It's about right there. It's about 35 feet.

ASHLEY: I'm okay. I have a lot of armor.

LAURA: She's good.

ORION: Then I'll try that instead. I'll try to
slam dunk.

MATT: He makes a saving throw. That fails
entirely. So the creature in front of you lifts up

in the air, and starts flailing about with its
hooks, trying to find some purchase in the

ceiling. You toss it over, and it lands squarely
into the pool of lava in the center of the tunnel.

You hear screeching in pain as it begins trying to
find his way out. Okay.

LIAM: Yes! Yes!

MARISHA: I like lava pools. I like lava pools.

MATT: As it's fully submerged, all right, that is
45 points of fire damage on it immediately as it's

slowly sinking into the pool of lava.

TRAVIS: He starts sinking into the pool of lava?

ASHLEY: Whoa.

MATT: Tiberius just Telekinesis-ed him up in the
air, and threw it into the lava pool.

TRAVIS: Yes.

LAURA: Good job.

ORION: I use two sorcerer points, and with the
other one I do Glacial Blast at the other guy.

MATT: The other one there? Okay. Go ahead and
roll-- Add your--

LAURA: Damn, Tiberius is getting really freaking
cool. Badass.

ORION: Spell attack, right?

MATT: Yeah.

ORION: 13 plus two. 15.

MATT: 15? Right now, because of the level of
darkness in the room, and because of its distance

from you-- You just managed to fire, just out of
the range of the creature. It hits the wall behind

him, leaving the slick of ice across the stone
wall behind it,

but unfortunately not the actual creature.

ORION: Okay. Okay. Oh! Right behind it? Do I see
myself missing too? Fine. As I'm missing I'll form

it into a spike at the end where the walls hit.

MATT: Okay!

TRAVIS: Yeah!

MATT: There is now an ice spike jutting out of the
wall right there. All right, that ends your turn,

unless you want to move. Still got your move
action.

LAURA: Ooh. Nice!

ORION: I'm going to-- where's the-- that way.

MATT: This way.

ORION: Out the hell-- with the stuff-- yes.

MATT: Now it would be the ogres, but they're all
dead.

(all cheer)

MATT: Scanlan's up.

TRAVIS: Yeah, come on, Scanlan!

MATT: Sees Pike in great danger. Sings a quick
little ditty to go ahead and give an inspiration

dice to Pike. So you get a d8.

ASHLEY: Okay.

MATT: To help you with any sort of attack rolls,
any saving throws, ability checks.

ASHLEY: How about for healing? Does it help with
healing? Can I add it to anything?

MATT: Just attack rolls, saving throws, and
checks.

ASHLEY: Okay.

MATT: Scanlan is going to attempt to dominate the
monster using his Dominate Creature spell. Saving

throw. It does not make it. The creature that was
harrowing Pike suddenly drops its claws for a

second, turns away from you, and starts looking
back towards the oozes and Grog.

That brings us to Vex. You're up.

LAURA: Okay. Do I have line-of-sight on the other
ooze that's attacking Grog? The big one?

MATT: The big one over here? You do. It's dark,
and you have no light source currently, so you can

try a shot, but it's going to be at disadvantage.

LAURA: Okay, then I guess I should just--

LIAM: Half-elves see in dim light up to 60 feet.
Does that pool of lava give anything?

MATT: It gives a very dull glow to the room. It's
enough where you can see there is something there.

You can even take a shot as opposed to not having
any chance.

LAURA: What about the little ooze? One of the
little oozes?

MATT: Same possibility because you're currently
blocked by this creature

that's currently sinking into the lava.

LAURA: I guess I should attack the one that's in
the lava.

MATT: Okay.

LAURA: Okay. Well. Oh! Can I-- Is he within ten or
five feet of the other, the little ooze?

MATT: No, he's ten feet from it.

LAURA: Okay, then I'll just attack him with my--
I'll just attack him.

MATT: Okay.

LAURA: This is lame, that's a lame--

TRAVIS: Do it!

MATT: So you have two attacks.

LIAM: Oh.

LAURA: Oh right, two attacks. 13?

MATT: 13 misses, unfortunately.

LAURA: Pathetic. 20-something.

MATT: That hits. So the first one, you fire
towards it, except the arrow just (whoosh) into

the lava and (puff).

LAURA: All right, cool.

MATT: With a slight puff of smoke.

LAURA: Can I have used my flaming bowstring on the
second one?

MATT: On the second one? If you'd like to.

LAURA: Sweet. Oh! And I Hunter's Marked him,
because I can do that.

MATT: All right, so you moved the Hunter's Mark
over, he is now your quarry.

LAURA: 13.

MATT: Go ahead and roll the additional fire damage
and your quarry damage.

LAURA: 13. 19 and 22 damage.

MATT: 22 damage, all righty. The one arrow
disappears. The second one, as you release it from

the bowstring, you feel the slight tingle of the
arcane energy released into the arrow. The arrow

bursts into flame as it releases from your bow,
streaking and piercing the front of its hide as

it's trying to claw its way out.

ORION: Nice!

MATT: Both of its claws are at the edges of the
lava, and it's pulling itself, screeching, its

mouth and eyes wild with the severe pain it's
feeling as it's slowly melting him from the

bottom. The arrow (impact sound) into its shoulder
and burst into flame. It's now freaking out. It

looks like it's having a really, really rough time
making its way out.

LAURA: Okay.

MATT: Do you want to move, or you going to stay
where you are?

LAURA: I'm gonna back up and get against the wall.
Oh wait, that's me!

MATT: That's you there.

LAURA: Oh, I was thinking I was Keyleth, I'm gonna
come up next to Keyleth.

MATT: All right, so right there?

LAURA: No, against the wall.

MATT: All right, there?

LAURA: Yeah.

MATT: All right. That ends your turn. Vax, you're
up.

LIAM: Okay, I'm gonna run over the dude in the
lava, I'm gonna jump on him, probably make an

acrobatics check and land right around here,
between the two little slimes.

MATT: Acrobatics check.

LIAM: Yeah.

LAURA: Don't let the slimes hit you.

MARISHA: Vault the lava.

LIAM: It's acrobatics. 22.

MARISHA: Vault that lava.

MATT: You jump, impact, and barely land next to
them.

LAURA: Oh my gosh.

LIAM: Now, because they are, because Grog is--

MATT: It does get one swipe of attack of
opportunity on you as you pass by.

LIAM: Fine.

MATT: That is going to be a 20.

LIAM: Okay. It's fine.

MATT: So, as you leap off of it, its hook swipes
up towards you.

You go ahead and take 14 points of 
piercing damage.

LAURA: That's a big hit!

LIAM: Yeah.

MATT: All right.

LIAM: Okay. Okay and since I land, since Grog is
right up against those two--

MATT: I will eat this later.

LIAM: I can Sneak Attack one or both of them, so
I'm gonna hit the one closest to the party first.

MATT: Okay.

LIAM: This is Sneak Attack.

MATT: All righty.

LIAM: This is, this is-- It's an 18.

MATT: All right, that hits.

LIAM: Three plus seven is-- this is my flametongue
dagger, so that's-- Oh, hold on, no, I don't know

what it is yet. Where's my pencil? I'm sending my
dice everywhere. Nine plus six, ten, 15, 18, 40.

58 on one slime.

MATT: What is the piercing damage from the
dagger?

LIAM: The piercing damage?

MATT: Daggers are piercing, so yeah.

LIAM: So I don't know. What is that? Is that
what's besides the Sneak Attack damage?

MATT: Thank you kindly. Mysterious appearance of
paper towels.

LIAM: That's 18. If it's doubled for the Sneak
Attack? I don't know. It's nine, without a Sneak

Attack. 18 if it's Sneak Attack.

MATT: Right. Well, it's a Sneak Attack, because it
is flanking.

LIAM: So 18 for Sneak Attack.

MATT: Okay, got you. Cool.

LIAM: That's first dagger.

MATT: All right, so second dagger. Go ahead and--

LIAM: Second dagger attacks the other one. I just
turn around and sink down into the other one for

16 with the keen, yeah, 16 with the keen dagger.

MATT: That hits, go ahead and roll damage.

LIAM: Okay, and this is probably not Sneak Attack
at this point, or is it? I don't know.

MATT: No, you'll do only one Sneak Attack per
round.

LIAM: Okay, eight.

MATT: Eight, gotcha. So as you rush, you leap off,
take the scratch in the air from the hook horror

creature. You land on the ground, slash one with
your dagger, slash the other. Both slashes are

almost simultaneous. As you hit, you feel your
blades gain purchase in both creatures, and you

look down at your arms as the horrible burning
sensation filters onto your hands as the

splash-back. You take a total of 20 points of acid
damage from the melee attacks

you took against the creatures.

LIAM: 20, you said?

MATT: 20 total, yes.

LAURA: (whispers) Oh my god.

LIAM: Okay. All right.

MATT: All right. That brings us to Percy.

ASHLEY: You're at 24? Fuck.

LIAM: It's all right.

TALIESIN: Where's the laser?

MARISHA: So they're all still alive, all the oozes
are still alive.

TALIESIN: Laser.

MARISHA: It was around here somewhere. You had it
last.

TRAVIS: What are you looking for?

LAURA: What? What's happening?

TALIESIN: Oh, never mind.

MARISHA: Did I have it? Oh, wait, wait, wait,
wait.

TALIESIN: Yeah you had it, aha!

MATT: Percy, what you got?

TALIESIN: I wanna move just slightly to my right.
Just over there

so I can get a clear shot at the oozes.

MATT: Okay, so right there?

TALIESIN: Yeah, about right there, so I'm not
going to hit anybody.

MATT: Okay.

TALIESIN: I'm gonna take two shots at the little
oozes. At the--

MATT: This one here?

TALIESIN: Yeah, that right little ooze.

MATT: Okay.

MARISHA: Little ooze.

TALIESIN: First shot. 27 to hit. And that does ten
points of damage. And then I'm gonna take another

shot at him, I'm going to take a fire shot. And
I'm gonna take a negative five to hit.

And that's 14.

MATT: Hits.

TALIESIN: So that's 15 plus-- that's 23 points of
damage plus three points of fire damage.

MATT: 26, nice.

TRAVIS: Yeah, boy. Perce!

MARISHA: On the little ooze?

ASHLEY: 26 points of damage?

LAURA: Woot woot!

TRAVIS: Wow!

TALIESIN: Plus fire.

LAURA: Plus fire.

TRAVIS: Get on it, nasty.

LIAM: Pow, pow, pow, pow.

MATT: All right, that brings us to Keyleth.

MARISHA: All the oozes are still alive?

MATT: Yeah.

MARISHA: Damn oozes. All right. I'm gonna do
something crafty.

TRAVIS: Yeah!

ASHLEY: Get it!

MATT: Gotta eat sometime, guys.

MARISHA: I'm gonna bamf into an eagle.

MATT: All right.

MARISHA: I'm gonna fly over-- I think I'm going to
land right by here.

MATT: There?

MARISHA: Uh-huh.

MATT: All right.

MARISHA: And I'm gonna do Thunder Wave. Which
is--

MATT: So you're coming out of eagle form?

MARISHA: So I'm coming out of eagle form. I was
just using the eagle to fly.

MATT: Okay, okay.

MARISHA: Coming out of eagle form, and I'm gonna
do my thunderpush.

So I take my staff and I throw it down. Kerplash.

TRAVIS: Yeah.

MARISHA: Today it's kerplash.

TRAVIS: I buy kerplash.

MARISHA: Kerplash!

TALIESIN: Okay.

MATT: All right! So what is the radius effect on
that?

MARISHA: It's a 15-foot cube and it pushes
everything ten feet away from me. Directly away.

MATT: 15-foot cube, okay. So like this cube here?

MARISHA: Sure. Yeah, a cube in front of me.

MATT: All right, cool. So, they both get saving
throws.

MARISHA: Not Grog, though. I'm gonna just--

MATT: You can do that. Okay, neither makes their
saving throw. So go ahead and roll damage,

or whatever it does.

MARISHA: 2d8.

MATT: 2d8 to each. What is the damage type on
that?

MARISHA: Six. It just says damage and then they're
pushed. I was--

MATT: Okay. So I'll go ahead and say it's thunder
damage. All right,

so they're pushed how long? Ten feet?

MARISHA: Ten feet. Directly away from me.

MATT: Yeah. So they're pushed right there. Got
it.

MARISHA: I was hoping they would go into the
lava.

MATT: Unfortunately, it's not far enough. Is that
your turn?

MARISHA: Yep!

MATT: All right. Pike!

ASHLEY: Okay, can I sprinter's boot over to Grog?
Sorry, no glasses, guys.

So I don't see where I am.

TRAVIS: A boot?

MATT: You can, yes.

ASHLEY: Okay, so I'm going to Cure Wounds.

MATT: All right.

ASHLEY: 'Cause that's what I do.

MATT: It's what you do as a healer, yo.

ASHLEY: So let's see, 1d8 plus spell damage. Wait,
so I'm gonna do it at fourth level, so that means

I can roll how many times?

MATT: 4d8.

ASHLEY: Okay, so--

MATT: Plus five.

ASHLEY: Five, eight, 16.

LAURA: Ooh! That's good! 24?

ASHLEY: 24. So you heal 24.

TRAVIS: Thank you!

MATT: Nice.

ASHLEY: And then--

LAURA: Plus, do you add that to anything?

ASHLEY: Well, he adds it to his 14 that he already
has.

MATT: Sorry.

ASHLEY: And then, can I do anything else while I'm
there?

MATT: No, bonus action to do the item, move,
action to cast the spell.

ORION: No.

ASHLEY: Okay.

MATT: So that's your turn.

ASHLEY: Okay.

MATT: Well done. All right, that brings us to
Grog.

TRAVIS: Right, yeah. I would like to come out of
my rage.

MATT: All right. So it's level two exhaustion.

TRAVIS: For the first time ever.

LAURA: Ever.

LIAM: Wow. Not sure how I feel about that.

TRAVIS: What do you-- where do you wanna go?
Towards Keyleth or toward the-- Okay. I'd like to

pick up Pike and run balls over this way.

MATT: Okay.

TRAVIS: Right towards this area.

MATT: Okay.

LIAM: I'm all on my own.

TRAVIS: Well, yeah, look. It nearly killed me the
one time I hit it.

ORION: You shouldn't be doing melee on things that
can split in half to begin with.

LAURA: We're gonna die.

MATT: All right, so you pick up Pike. Level two
exhaustion, your speed is halved.

LAURA: Oh no.

TRAVIS: Okay.

MATT: So you can only move 20 feet.

TRAVIS: Right.

ORION: You messed everything up.

LIAM: Hey man, if I can't be a hero here, where am
I gonna do it?

ORION: Oh, every other time is fine.

TRAVIS: Do you want to stay? It doesn't really
matter.

MATT: You grab her, you turn--

TRAVIS: You want to stay over there?

MATT: -- run that way?

TRAVIS: You know what? I'll--

MARISHA: Aim for in front of the Scientology
Center. It always goes over really well.

TRAVIS: Do you just wanna stay?

ASHLEY: I'm gonna-- I'll stay, I'll stay.

TRAVIS: I'll leave Pike where she is and I'll run
up and flank Iceberg Lobsterface.

MATT: Right there?

TRAVIS: Yeah.

MATT: Okay, so, that's as far as you can get,
unfortunately--

TRAVIS: Okay.

MATT: -- 'cause you're double-fatigued.

TALIESIN: My name in high school.

MATT: As you run past, both of those slimes--

ASHLEY: Double?

MARISHA: Double-fatigue?

TALIESIN: Iceberg Lobsterface.

MATT: -- flash out with pseudopods, as reactions.

LIAM: I'm surrounded by shit.

TALIESIN: It's what all the kids called me.

MATT: So, two attacks against you.

TALIESIN: Long story.

MATT: That's a 22.

TRAVIS: Yeah.

ASHLEY: Fuck!

MATT: And a 19.

TRAVIS: Yeah.

MATT: All right, so both slam you for 24 points of
bludgeoning damage.

You're not raged, so it's not halved.

TRAVIS: Okay.

LAURA: Ugh.

MATT: So 24 against you, with an additional 56
points of acid damage.

ASHLEY: Wait! What?

TRAVIS: Unconscious!

TALIESIN: Damn it.

LAURA: Why didn't you get acid damage?

MARISHA: Son of a bitch.

MATT: They haven't hit him yet. That was just Grog
running away.

LAURA: Oh.

MATT: Both of them getting attacks of opportunity
on him, and both hitting.

LIAM: I am surrounded by shit.

ASHLEY: Guys, guys, guys.

MATT: Grog falls face-first, right next-- right,
like, literally cradling-- His unconscious body is

cradling the two dead ogres right now.

LAURA: No!

MATT: This slight sound of 'sss' as the acid is,
like, sizzling and scarring his flesh.

LAURA: Nobody attack the things up close!

MATT: That brings us to their turn.

LAURA: Oh, no!

LIAM: I'm going unconscious here, kids.

LAURA: All of our heavy hitters are dead.

MATT: These three oozes turn. Actually, this
one's going to move here--

ASHLEY: Oh, hello!

MATT: -- towards Pike.

LIAM: (Tommy Wiseau voice) Oh, hi, Pike.

(all laugh)

MATT: You get an attack of opportunity on it, if
you like--

LAURA: Oh, hit it!

LIAM: Hit it? Yeah.

MATT: -- as it slips away.

LAURA: Get it!

TALIESIN: Get it!

LIAM: Do I have to roll to do that? Right?

MATT: Yeah, you still have roll to hit it.

LIAM: 26.

MATT: Hits.

LAURA: Why is it going up there?

ASHLEY: You're gonna kill this thing!

LIAM: 11.

MATT: 11?

LIAM: Yeah.

MATT: Points of damage?

LIAM: That's the damage. 11.

MATT: Yeah.

LIAM: Oh, yeah yeah yeah.

MATT: All right, cool.

ASHLEY: What did you guys vote on?

MARISHA: No shit.

LAURA: Did they vote on this?

ASHLEY: Probably.

MATT: So, the one that's attacking you, Pike, that
is a--

LAURA: You guys suck.

MATT: -- 23, versus armor class.

ASHLEY: Yes, that hits.

(all laugh)

MATT: All right. You take 12 points of bludgeoning
damage from the impact of the pseudopod, with an

additional 28 points of acid damage.

LIAM: Son of a gun.

MARISHA: Pseudopod?

ASHLEY: Okay, so an additional 28 on top of that.

TRAVIS: You guys are dicks.

MATT: Yeah, so a total of 40 points of damage from
the strike.

ASHLEY: I understand.

MARISHA: Did he just call it a 'pseudopod'?

LIAM: Masochists.

MATT: The other two are going to attack you.

LIAM: Sure they are.

MATT: That's going to be a 19 versus armor class.

LIAM: Yeah, that hits 'cause I'm at 19. Right? So
that hits if I'm at 19?

MATT: It hits. Yeah. Okay. The other one is a 14,
so that misses.

LIAM: Okay, so I use Uncanny Dodge on the one that
hit.

MARISHA: Oh!

MATT: All right. So.

TALIESIN: Nice!

LIAM: Whoa!

MARISHA: Yeah you do.

MATT: As you pull that away, you-- You take
half-damage from the strike?

LIAM: Half-damage. That's right.

MATT: All right, so that's-- this was a 40. Take
20 points of damage, total,

from the bludgeoning and the acid.

LIAM: Oh, I am rough, kids. I am rough.

LAURA: Plus acid?

MATT: All right. That ends their turn.

LAURA: Oh my god.

MATT: Clarota--

LAURA: Clarota, save us!

MATT: -- is going to step forward to there.

LIAM: Use your magic, you strange flayer, you.

LAURA: Do not use Lightning Bolt.

MARISHA: Yeah. No Lightning Bolt, Clarota.

MATT: Clarota reaches forward, uses his own--
Taking a note from Tiberius, uses his Telekinesis

spell. The arcanist marks on its body flare up,
and as it does you can see this large creature--

LAURA: Yeah.

MATT: -- gets lifted up, and slams on top of this
hook horror--

ORION: Yes!

LIAM: That's awesome.

MATT: -- pushing it further into the lava and
doing additional

acid damage to the hook horror, which--

LAURA: Yeah! And it dies?

ORION: Damn hook whores!

LIAM: (Cosby voice) You see--

MATT: -- which completely dissolves and melts the
hook horror.

(all cheer)

TRAVIS: All right, Clarence!

MATT: As it pushes down, the ooze just touches the
edge of the lava, not taking full damage from the

impact, but just enough from the portion of it.

LIAM (Jimmy Stewart voice) Clarence! Clarence!

MATT: Taking an additional five points of fire
damage. All right, it's that one there. Great. All

right, that brings us to the hook horror's turn,
who is currently dominated by Scanlan. Is going to

rush forward to the edge here, and strike twice at
the--

LAURA: Yeah, Scanlan!

MATT: -- creature in the lava. Both hit.

TRAVIS: Yes!

LAURA: I'm full.

MATT: It's prone. That deals six plus 14. Eight.
All right. The hook horror that Scanlan's

controlling slams its hooks down into the ooze,
causing the ooze to get pushed further into the

lava. As you see its form begin to dissipate and
slowly disintegrate into the pool of lava.

LAURA: Yeah!

MATT: Leaving this dark, cooled kind of surface
element to it. Slowly breaking apart,

dissipating over the magma.

ASHLEY: Bye, bitch.

MATT: End of its turn, it's going to try and make
a saving throw against the domination effect.

Rolls a natural 20. Breaks the effect, however I
feel like it did its good for the turn.

LAURA: Damn it. Did he take acid damage? Is he
hurt?

MATT: Yeah, he did. He took 20 points of acid
damage from each strike.

LAURA: Nice. Good, good, good.

ASHLEY: So there is only one left?

LAURA: No, there is two little oozes and a big
one.

LIAM: Two oozes and a monster man.

MATT: All right, that brings us to the top of the
turn. Tiberius, you're up.

ORION: Ah very well. I scooch myself a little bit
over behind him.

MARISHA: (sings) One little two little three
little oozes.

MATT: Over here?

ORION: Yeah, that's good, I can see his fanny from
here. I'm going to cast Glacial Blast again, but

I'm going to form a giant spike once more and jam
it right in his asshole.

LIAM: Oh, he's pulling a Vax.

ORION: And I'm going to try and catapult it right
where it's over. Because it's still at the edge of

the lava pool, right?

MATT: Mm-hm. So you're going to glacial spike in
the-- Kancho him. Magically kancho.

ORION: Magic ice kancho blast.

MATT: Arcane cheat code. All right. So go ahead
and roll to attack.

LIAM: Up up down down left right left right.

TRAVIS: A B A B N.

ORION: 24.

MATT: That definitely hits. Go ahead and roll
damage.

ORION: Yeah. One, two, three, four, six. That is
eight. What is that, a 12? 15, 16, 18, 19.

20. 20 damage.

MATT: 20 damage? All right, and he's grappled,
correct?

ORION: I'm not trying to grapple him, I'm trying
to just push him.

MATT: Push him? Shove?

ORION: Yeah.

LAURA: Into the lava.

ORION: Because he's like swinging at that dude so
I'm like up his keister.

MATT: All right. All right. So he does make his
saving throw.

ORION: Okay.

MATT: Unfortunately, so it doesn't push him into
the lava, but it does slam him and does a shit-ton

of damage to him, so.

ORION: Nice.

MARISHA: In his pooper.

MATT: Looking rough. Just a little bit.

ORION: Yeah. I'll spend another two points.

MATT: How many points do you have now?

ORION: After this, I'll have five.

MATT: Okay.

ORION: Because we had the rest, I regenerated all
my stuff.

MATT: Right. Right.

ORION: So I spent two already.

TRAVIS: He's making trouble.

ORION: I spent another two on the fight. And I'm
going to do another one. Up his ass again.

MATT: All right, go ahead and roll for that.

ORION: Yeah. 20.

MATT: Uh-huh.

MARISHA: Uh-huh.

ORION: Yeah and that is 15. 15 points of damage.

MATT: Makes his saving throw again, unfortunately.
It does not push him. Does additional points of

damage. He's looking really rough. You can see
now, this ice has encrusted

around the outside of its armor.

ORION: And his butt.

MATT: And where the wounds from the impact are,
there's cracking

shards of ice crystal jutting outward.

ORION: From his arsehole.

MATT: From his asshole. Scanlan's turn. Should
have had your sheet, Scanlan. Scanlan's going to

go ahead and, for the hell of it, run up and make
an attack.

(all laugh)

TRAVIS: Eff him up, Scanlan.

ASHLEY: Let's go, Scanlan.

MATT: Why not? Pulling out, his singing sword
arches in the air, and begins humming to it as he

walks upon-- The humming kind of adds this
vibration element, like a tuning fork blade, as he

arcs the sword down.

MATT: A natural 18. I'm going to assume that hits.
That's going to be a 1d8 longsword damage. That's

an 8 plus-- 12 points of damage.

LAURA: Woo, Scanlan.

TRAVIS and MARISHA: Yeah, Scanlan.

ASHLEY: Go Scanlan.

MATT: The blade swings down to where the ice has
encrusted the back of its armored shell. Scanlan

takes the blade, swings it down, and pierces it
directly into where that ice has gathered. As it

does, it cracks open the back of its armored
shell. Almost peeling it open like a shrimp. You

can now see all its fleshy innards are exposed
to the outside. It's looking extremely, extremely

close to death. It's screaming in pain, kind of
thrashing about now.

LIAM: Shrimping, cool.

MATT: Vex, you're up.

LAURA: Okay. I'm gonna Lightning Bolt the bad
guy.

MATT: This guy?

LAURA: Yeah.

MATT: All right.

LAURA: Oh wait, no, I should save my brother.

LIAM: Maybe.

LAURA: Okay, I'm going to attack one of the oozies
instead.

LIAM: The one right behind me.

LAURA: The one right behind him.

MATT: All right. Go ahead and roll for attack.

LAURA: Yeah. Yeah, 23.

MATT: Very nice, very nice, that hits

LAURA: Oh I Hunter's Mark him first. Bonus.

ORION: Bonus.

LIAM: Excellent.

LAURA: 14 for the first attack.

ASHLEY: Wait, do we still have Scanlan's
inspiration song?

MATT: You do, yeah.

LIAM: You do. You have the die.

ASHLEY: I have the die. Is what I'm talking about,
sorry.

LAURA: Do I get six on both attacks? I do, don't
I?

MATT: Mm-hm.

LAURA: Yeah. 17 on the second attack.

MATT: All right.

LIAM: Kill it. Kill it.

MATT: With a sickening (splat) sound, the ooze
splatters across the floor.

LAURA: Yeah.

LIAM: Thank you.

MATT: Leaving a small, sizzling pool that's
scarring the rock below it. You can see it slowly

depressing into the ground. You gonna stay where
you are?

LAURA: Yeah.

MATT: All right. That brings us to Vax.

LIAM: All right. I walk back about 15 feet, and I
go (shnk-shnk). Throw daggers at it.

MATT: Both daggers?

LIAM: First one's a 15.

MATT: That hits.

LIAM: Okay and that is-- this is my keen dagger.
That is nine.

MATT: Nine hits.

LIAM: Second dagger. Definitely hits, that's a
26.

MATT: Hits. None of them are Sneak Attack,
unfortunately.

LIAM: That's fine. This is flametongue. I don't
know if fire helps, but that is an eight.

So nine and an eight.

MATT: Nine and an eight, gotcha. Both daggers
splash into it. You can see where they would

slowly be scarred and damaged.

LIAM: Except that they teleport back to my blink
belt.

LAURA: Yay, blink belt.

MATT: As they return to your belt, you can feel
there a slight bit of liquid left,

and you shake it off quickly.

LIAM: Shite.

LAURA: (sings) Shake it off.

MATT: But no other effect that that. It looks like
it's having a hard time keeping its form together.

It's kind of shaking and (oozing sound) as it
moves. Still running towards Pike.

LIAM: Finish that shit, Pike.

MATT: That brings us to Percy.

LIAM: Hit it.

TALIESIN: All right. I'm just taking the shot.
Taking a shot with the bonus.

So that's 14 to hit.

MATT: Mm-hm.

TALIESIN: That hits. So that's 18 points of
damage.

MATT: All righty.

TALIESIN: And I'm gonna take the other shot.

MATT: Is this against the ooze?

TALIESIN: Yeah, yeah. Sorry, the ooze.

MATT: All right. Yep.

TALIESIN: And that's 13 to hit.

ASHLEY: Grog's unconscious?

LIAM: He'll be fine in ten minutes, Pike.

ASHLEY: What?

LIAM: He's out of the fight, but he'll be fine.

ASHLEY: Oh, okay.

TALIESIN: And that's 11 points of damage.

MATT: The first shot hits, and the ooze kind of
quivers. It leaves this kind of gaping hole, and

it begins to slowly reform itself. Before it can,
you see the other weak spot where the top of its

physical form is barely wavering, and it's able to
keep corporeal. You aim the second shot, and as

you fire, it detonates and that portion of its
upper torso-- whatever it would be-- gets flung

off and splats against the wall, the rest of it
slowly liquefying

as the rest of the slime is destroyed.

ASHLEY: Nice.

TRAVIS: Yeah, buddy.

LAURA: Yeah.

TALIESIN: So I'm going to back up against the
wall.

I'm going to back to the wall of the-- Yeah.

MATT: Okay. Keyleth.

MARISHA: Do I have enough speed to get next to Vex
there? 30 feet?

MATT: Vax, you mean? Yeah, you do.

MARISHA: Is that Vax?

All right, once again, I'm going to
Thorn Whip this bitch.

MATT: All right, go ahead and roll for attack.

LIAM: (sings) Thorn Whip.

MARISHA: 26.

MATT: That hits, definitely, go ahead and roll
damage.

LIAM: (sings) Thorn Whip, the bitch is dead.

MARISHA: Eight points of damage.

MATT: Okay.

MARISHA: And I pull him--

MATT: How do you want to do this?

(all cheer)

MATT: The creature is slashing about with its
claws.

MARISHA: So I take my Thorn Whip, and I go (whip
sound). And I grab him. And I see he's still

struggling. So I take another one and I go (whip
sound) on the other one.

And I just go Spiderman-style.

MATT: And (dragging sound). As you do it, it
plummets face-first into the--

LAURA: Woo!

MATT: -- both into the magma and the slightly
still-sizzling form left over

from the ooze that had melted there.

ORION: Magma and acid.

MARISHA: And just for flavor, I take a big gust of
air, a big Wind Burst and I go (whoosh) down into

the lava pool. Encrusting it all.

MATT: As you do, it slams down. You hear it scream
underneath as its body begins to quiver. The Wind

Burst hits, and the cool air rushes through the
tunnel. All of your guys' hair and everything gets

blown back for a second. You have to cover your
eyes, and as you look back--

(all laugh)

MATT: The magma has cooled to a solid
rock-covering surface.

As darkness falls back into the tunnel--

ORION: Oh, Light!

MATT: As Tiberius hits Light, in the tunnel you
can see the--

LAURA: Grog!

MATT: -- hook horror, which, a portion of its
upper torso is now encrusted

into the actual cavern floor.

LAURA: Awesome.

TRAVIS: Amazing.

LAURA: Save Grog!

ASHLEY: I'm going to go over to Grog and Cure
Wounds at fourth level.

MATT: All right.

LIAM: You tried to kill us, but you failed.

LAURA: Don't challenge them.

ASHLEY: Don't.

TALIESIN: Nice try.

ASHLEY: Nice job, guys.

TRAVIS: I did a pretty decent job, actually.

MATT: I ate pizza in front of you guys. I don't
care. It was tasty. Thank you.

ORION: Yeah.

MARISHA: I don't care. No shame.

MATT: Delicious pizza.

LAURA: No. We're not gonna have Trinket this whole
thing. We better get back to Trinket soon.

I'm freaking out, you guys.

MARISHA: That's true, if we keep going.

ASHLEY: 25 points of heal!

LIAM: Just in seven more weeks.

TRAVIS: Thank you!

ASHLEY: You're welcome!

MARISHA: I might be able to guide him--

LIAM: Trinket's on the sidelines, man.

LAURA: That makes me so sad!

LIAM: We're not going back.

LAURA: And it's all you guys' fault!

LIAM: But it was like three years, Trinket was by
your side. This is the first time ever.

MATT: As Grog, you come to consciousness again--

TRAVIS: Ah! Did I kill it?

LAURA: You did, Grog! Good job!

TALIESIN: Yes, Grog, you killed it good.

LAURA: Also, handful of pizza.

TRAVIS: I put my hand in my pizza!

(all laugh)

LIAM: You killed them all, Grog! You were
magnificent!

MARISHA: Yay, Grog!

TRAVIS: Aha! Tell me more! (snores)

(all laugh)

ASHLEY: Wait--

MARISHA: Now we pass out.

ASHLEY: -- so can I also do a Mass Cure Wounds?
Since I just did a--

MATT: Yeah, if you'd like!

ASHLEY: Okay. So I'll also do a Mass Cure Wounds.

LAURA: Yay!

LIAM: Yes, 'cause I'm at four hit points.

ASHLEY: Yeah, you're pretty bad.

MARISHA: Oof.

LAURA: Brother.

TALIESIN: I'm fine.

LIAM: Oh, brother, where art thou?

ORION: I feel fine!

LAURA: I feel fine.

MARISHA: Ah, me too.

TALIESIN: I feel fine.

LIAM: Oh! Oh! Oh! Fancy you! Blah-blah-blah-blah!

(all laugh)

TALIESIN: Seems that there's one table where
everyone is perfectly reasonable!

ORION: All the time, yes, Vax!

LIAM: I'm at four hit points! You go fuck 
yourself.

MARISHA: Yes, everyone on this side of the table's
good.

ORION: There's an acid guy! Stab.

(all laugh)

LIAM: I was trying to save his ass! I was hurting
myself on purpose.

MATT: All right. So, as you guys steel yourselves
for a moment, kind of

recovering from that fateful encounter, you--

ASHLEY: 22 points of healing--

LAURA: To everyone.

MATT: To everyone.

LIAM: That's pretty good.

MATT: Everyone heals 22 points of damage.

LIAM: That's half-ish.

TALIESIN: I reload.

LAURA: Well done, well done.

LIAM: Half-ish.

ASHLEY: Something additional.

TRAVIS: Thank you, Pike.

ASHLEY: Oh, you're welcome, Grog! My best pal.

TRAVIS: Hell yeah. (growling noises)

ASHLEY: (growling noises)

MATT: All right.

(all laugh)

TRAVIS: It's a language we speak.

ASHLEY: Yeah, man, it's like our own thing.

(all laugh)

MATT: You guys push forward down the tunnel--

LAURA: Oh!

LIAM: Yes.

LAURA: Limping.

MATT: For another 20 or so minutes, bringing
yourself along,

sore from the impact of the battle.

LIAM: I'm burnt.

MATT: Bits of your armor scarred. By the way, your
armor--

LIAM: Yes.

MATT: -- what type of armor was it?

LIAM: It was-- it's magical. I found it in the
goblin city. Studded leather armor, plus two.

MATT: All right. For the acidic nature of this--

LIAM: Wait. Do you know what's funny? What's funny
is, the armor I had before this, that I wasn't

paying attention to, was acid resistant! Isn't
that funny?

MARISHA: And now you don't have it no more?

LIAM: That's so funny!

LAURA: That's great!

MATT: Look at that!

TRAVIS: That's really funny. Keep going.

MARISHA: That is funny.

LIAM: It's in my bag!

MATT: You wipe it off. Thankfully, the magic
enchantment protects the armor entirely.

LAURA: Ah! See! That was acid-resistant, too!

MATT: Grog, what armor do you have?

LIAM: Even better!

TRAVIS: Oh, it's like hides and leathers and--

MATT: Just regular hide.

TRAVIS: Yep.

MATT: Currently, as you're walking, you look down
and notice that the armor

on your torso has near-completely dissolved.

LAURA: (gasps)

TRAVIS: Son of a-- Well, you're welcome, ladies!

LAURA: My, my, Grog!

TRAVIS: (sings) It's time for a show!

ORION: Grog! Will you put those away!

MATT: As it stands, you have no additional armor
class bonus for any armor.

LAURA: Oh no!

MATT: Your hide armor is gone. It is completely
dissolved.

LAURA: What about the black armor? Put on the
dwarven black plate armor!

TRAVIS: They're dwarves.

ASHLEY: What if we melt it and then make it a big
one?

LAURA: If it's magical, it might fit you if you
just try it on!

ASHLEY: I don't know, would that work?

ORION: It's true!

LIAM: Hold on, hold on. DM! DM. I take off my
magical armor,

which was dwarven in shape before--

LAURA: (gasps) Oh, good!

LIAM: -- but I take it off, it shrinks down to
like a little toddler--

LAURA: Oh! Ew. Cover yourself, Vax!

LIAM: I'm wearing, like, a Scientology unibody
underwear underneath--

(all laugh)

LAURA: Oh, okay.

ASHLEY: Wouldn't that be-- that's mormons!

LIAM: The armor shrinks down to like
toddler-size--

ORION: I don't know what that means!

LIAM: -- and I hand it to Grog.

TALIESIN: It's probably for the best.

LIAM: And I go to my pack and I take out my old
armor, which is acid resistant. Not quite as cool

as what I was wearing, but I don't want him--

TRAVIS: You had two pairs of gloves?

LIAM: I can't-- huh?

TRAVIS: Kidding. It's Dumb & Dumber.

LIAM: I can't stare at his pecs for the next three
days, so I'll give him my armor.

LAURA: I can.

LIAM: Ooh! And put on what I had on before.

MATT: All right. So you take a moment, and hand
him new armor, and Grog, this scarred, nearly

naked goliath form, has been lumbering through
this hallway--

TRAVIS: Ooh!

MATT: Hoo! Modesty, Grog!

(all laugh)

MATT: You place the studded leather on--

LIAM: Studded leather armor plus two, okay?

MATT: So mark that for your AC.

TRAVIS: Studded armor leather plus two.

ASHLEY: Wait, but then what are--

LAURA: He's got his own armor.

LIAM: I've got my old armor. I found that armor
down here.

TALIESIN: I'm gonna be the person who actually
examines the cart, at this point.

MATT: Okay.

MARISHA: Oh! That's a good idea.

LAURA: Plus we have other plate armor!

LIAM: That's a loaner.

TALIESIN: You know, I just figured someone ought
to.

MARISHA: What the fuck did we open?

TRAVIS: Plus two to AC?

LAURA: Yeah.

TALIESIN: And it should be me.

MARISHA: Yeah.

LIAM: No, it's more complicated than that.

MATT: Okay, here's the circumstance for you, real
fast, before we get to that. So, Grog.

TRAVIS: Yep.

MATT: The armor you had on was hide, which was a
dex bonus of 12 plus your dex. Studded leather is

also the same, so your AC actually goes up.

TRAVIS: Oh! Ho! Something that you'd think!

MATT: So, what was your AC previously?

TRAVIS: 18?

MATT: 18?

TRAVIS: Yeah.

MATT: It should now be 20.

TRAVIS: Yay! Yes!

LAURA: Yay, Grog!

TRAVIS: Grog takes the top off and does a--

LIAM: Loaner! Loaner.

TALIESIN: Put it back on.

LIAM: Loaner.

LAURA: It's his, he's keeping it. It's going to
stink like Grog, you won't want that back.

TRAVIS: The things I'm gonna do in this armor,
you're not going to want it back.

Just give me and Scanlan one night to
break it in, and I promise you, it will be mine.

MATT: Just the two of you?

TRAVIS: Well, uh, you know what I mean. Who am I
talking to?

MATT: All right, well, go ahead and roll an
investigation check.

TALIESIN: An investigation check, what is that?
Eight.

MATT: Okay. Looking at the cart, the cart is a
rickety wooden thing, but what was in the cart was

a large glass unit, a containment unit that was
sealed off. You can see the inside of it has

slight scarring to the glass, but it seems to be
resistant to whatever the loose creature was

contained in it. Along the inside of the cart, you
notice there are a couple of just left over chunks

of flesh of different colors, patches or pieces
you see, like part of a hand that's just in there.

LAURA: Ew.

MATT: Partially decomposed, to a certain extent.
It looks like these were either used to feed

whatever the creature was in there or remnants of
some other strange collection. Based on the best

you guys can ascertain, this creature was part of
the experimentation-type process that the weird

naga creature you fought earlier came from.

LAURA: Oh, great, so there could be more.

TRAVIS: Did we search the ogres?

LAURA: Yeah! Loot the ogres!

MATT: Ogres are wearing nasty, nasty, tattered at
this point, hide armor

LIAM: Grog could do it.

MATT: They both carry total, amongst the two of
them, about 24 pieces of gold.

LAURA: Sweet.

TRAVIS: I wanna take it.

LAURA: I add it to party funds.

TRAVIS: I am searching the ogres, and I keep the
24 gold, but I give two to Vax.

LIAM: Thank you.

TRAVIS: You're welcome.

MARISHA: Can I go and grab shards of the broken
glass of the case?

MATT: If you'd like to, yeah. So mark that in your
inventory, you have some hand-sized shards of

broken glass.

TRAVIS: And two to Pike for healing me.

ASHLEY: Oh, thanks.

MATT: Anything else you guys wish to do in this
section?

LIAM: So we searched the ogres, that's it. I guess
we should just start walking further down.

TRAVIS: You take a poo on the black puddle of
acid?

TALIESIN: I think-- Well, no. That's the only heat
source, that's the only lava there was, and now

it's cool.

MATT: And now it has cooled, yeah.

TALIESIN: Okay, never mind, then.

MARISHA: Sorry.

TALIESIN: It's all right, I think it's worth it.

TRAVIS: I'd like to take a hit dice.

MATT: Okay. Go ahead and do that. As many as you'd
like.

LIAM: Let's rest for a half-hour or so.

LAURA: Yeah.

MATT: Take a moment, you can spend any hit dice
now that you need to to heal yourself. Just make

sure to mark how many you've used.

TALIESIN: I just hear the sounds of ones.

MATT: All right. As you guys take a moment to heal
yourselves, you pull yourselves back up to your

feet, and you tread further down this tunnel.
Another 25-30 minutes of the slight curvature, and

it gets steeper and steeper, until eventually it
opens up into a familiar cavern to some of you.

You see a large waterfall pouring down from
above--

ASHLEY: (gasps)

LAURA: Mother bitches.

MARISHA: It looped around?

MATT: You are on the outskirts of where the next
tunnel opens up, where there are a few small

streams of lava pouring from the ceiling. You look
above, and you can see the top of the downward

cavern. There's the giant lake beneath. And across
the way, you can see the waterfall where Clarota

was originally discovered.

MARISHA: Well, we should go pick up Trinket.

TALIESIN: At least you get your bear.

LAURA: (gasps) Trinket!

MARISHA: Let's go pick up Trinket.

LAURA: Oh yeah yeah yeah yeah.

TRAVIS: You're going to get your bear killed.

LIAM: Can you explain? I don't think I understand.

MARISHA: We left Trinket over there.

LIAM: Can you explain with your map, Matt?

MATT: Yes.

MARISHA: We're at the bottom of the cave.

ORION: We went down and just--

LIAM: I get we doubled back, but it would help the
visual, I think.

MATT: Yeah so-- and I'll have more of this for you
guys next week.

TRAVIS: It was a warp tube.

MATT: The path you guys took was essentially--
lead to this back area, which I'll draw for next

week, and a tunnel that curved all the way around
and exited right there.

LAURA: So we're--

LIAM: All right, we'll go get your bear.

LAURA: We'll go get Trinket, and then we'll go
down the path we should have gone down in the

first place next week.

MARISHA: Son of a bitch.

TALIESIN: Except we get Trinket.

LAURA: But Trinket!

MARISHA: So it's not useless.

LAURA: It was absolutely useless.

LIAM: That's fate, that's kismet.

MARISHA: Is there, like, any other way down here?

MATT: Other than the fact you've completely
destroyed one of the mind flayer generals as well

as the one helming the war camp above. You've
acquired new magical items and defeated one of the

abominations that was created for the siege war. I
think you accomplished quite a few things, though

maybe not as directly as you were hoping.

TALIESIN: And we acquired our bear.

LAURA: We got our bear back.

MATT: All right, so you, taking the flying carpet,
it's a very precarious journey

as the weight limit for the carpet--

LIAM: You go on it, right?

LAURA: He's with me, and he cast Featherfall.

MATT: You can go ahead and cast Fly on your bear.
Trinket awkwardly (bear noises) manages to swim

her way down to the bottom floor.

LAURA: Come, Trinket, come.

MATT: As you make your way to the base of the
watery lake, at the bottom, you can see a swish to

the water, and a very familiar sight briefly shows
itself in the distance. As you see a slick domed

fish-like head protrude with a few tentacles in
the distance, you all instinctively step quite a

distance away, and it seems to withdraw back into
the water.

MARISHA: Can I-- While I see it real quick, I'm
going to go ahead and channel

and cast Beast Sense through it.

MATT: Nothing bestial of it. This is not a natural
creature.

MARISHA: Good to know.

MATT: Clarota once again whispers to the rest of
you, "Stay at bay. The Aboleth is dangerous."

LAURA: Aboleth?

MARISHA: Aboleth.

MATT: You all step back and turn now into the the
tunnel that extends further into the heart of this

mountain. You see streams of lava pouring from the
top occasionally, and one central flow of molten

rock tends to fill half of the cavern, like a
small river heading down into the base of the

mountain. This is very familiar to you, as it's
the path that your dream took you.

ASHLEY: Guys, this is really familiar to me.

(all laugh)

LAURA: We spent a whole game doing--

MARISHA: Well, we took a wrong turn, I guess.

LIAM: I don't know. We were flexing our muscles a
little bit.

LAURA: Flexing our muscles.

MARISHA: Yeah, I like it.

LAURA: Plus you got us new armor out of it.

TRAVIS: And I got naked, too.

MATT: As you guys begin to step into the next
lengths of your subterranean journey, we'll pick

that up next week. Thank you all so much for
tuning into Critical Role.

LAURA: Man, oh man, oh man.

MATT: Some tense battles. An intense encounter
choice on you guys' part. Well done on that.

ASHLEY: I want to keep going.

LIAM: Who's this guy?

MATT: What is this?

ZAC: All right, so. Amy was the winner of our
first giveaway.

MATT: Congrats, Amy.

(all cheer)

MARISHA: Huzzah.

ZAC: I ask whoever hasn't signed this, we're going
to pass it around to all sign it for Amy.

MATT: Awesome, we'll all do that.

ZAC: As a thank-you for Amy, she's an avid fan.

LAURA: Yay!

MATT: Thank you, Amy, that's awesome.

MARISHA: Thanks for being a fan.

ASHLEY: Thanks, Amy.

ZAC: As a personal challenge, guys, from me to
you, I think we are, what are we, 18 away, Lucas?

LUCAS: 19.

LAURA: 19?

MATT: 19 away from our next package?

ZAC: From the next one.

LUCAS: Is it at 1,550?

ZAC: Yeah.

LUCAS: Oh, we're 29 away.

LAURA: Oh, okay.

MATT: Aw.

ZAC: Are you sure?

LUCAS: Yeah, we're at 1,521.

ZAC: Okay, so we've got a little bit of a ways to
go, but I'm going to go ahead and have these guys

sign this one as well, and I'm going to push you
guys that by the end of tonight, if we reach

1,550, I'll go ahead and throw this in with the
next promo kit, as well. And if not I'll hang onto

it for myself, and I won.

MATT: Boom.

ZAC: Thank you guys so much. That was fun. It gets
more intense like every week.

MATT: That's apparently the path this is taking,
so--

MARISHA: We keep getting knocked unconscious.

TRAVIS: We make amazing decisions.

(all laugh)

ZAC: And just so you guys know, that was the chat
room that decided on your fate.

LAURA: You?

TRAVIS: Sons of bitches.

MATT: Yeah, second week in a row.

TRAVIS: (sings) Why can't we be friends?

ALL: (sing) Why can't we be friends?

MATT: So the chat room creature choice, those will
be an occasional thing, not a weekly thing, 'cause

it's too difficult to keep up with that and a
little too random. Plus that's just too many

creatures to be prepared for. But every few weeks
or so, I'm gonna throw one out there for you guys.

So come and watch. Hopefully you'll be there for
one of those episodes. Put your friends together,

vote for the creature you want to see them fight,
and if a TPK happens, not my fault,

it's totally on you guys.

LAURA: Is that a total party kill?

MATT: Total party kill.

ZAC: That's intense.

So, guys, we're not going to go offline
just now. We're going to stick around for a little

while. We're going to throw it up while
we move some cameras, so I'm going to leave it up

to the chat room. It's up to you guys, we can
either come back and play some Bloodborne on the

PS4 that you guys bought us, or we can come back
and play some Just Dance 2014 that you guys also

bought us. So there's dancing or Bloodborne. It's
up to you guys.

MATT: Dancing is fun to watch, Bloodborne just to
watch him get really, really angry.

ZAC: I don't get angry. Lucas gets angry, though.

MATT: This game, the beginning of this game will
make you angry. All right, all right.

MARISHA: You don't get angry? Have you played Dark
Souls or Demon Souls? Because--

ZAC: I think actually--

MATT: Demon Souls mimics, man, I know the pain
you're in for.

ZAC: What was it like, Bachee or something like
that? Man, that game pissed me off.

ORION: Bocce ball?

ZAC: Wings of-- ire, ear, something like that.

MATT: Oh yeah, I know what you're talking about.

ZAC: Man, that was heavy. Would any of you guys be
interested in sticking around to dance a round or

two if we were to go to Just Dance? It's a nightly
staple here. We end the nights with dancing. I

don't know if you guys have seen that
ridiculousness, but--

MATT: Who would want to stick around for that?

ZAC: They're all shivering in fear, you guys

LIAM: How soon will that start? I'll stay for 20.

MATT: We can stay for a little bit.

ZAC: I bet they're are all going to ask for
dancing now.

LUCAS: See a lot of Bloodborne, actually.

ZAC: Oh, really?

MATT: Oh, I live for Bloodborne, man.

ZAC: Well, the second--