MATT: Hello everyone! Welcome to Critical Role.
After a two-week hiatus of our usual gaming

schedule at Comic Con and then a fun-filled crazy
week with half the party playing games and having

fun while me and Marisha were in New Zealand,
we're happy to be back. We're happy you guys are

here as we continue our adventure going forward.
We'll have a lot of really cool things to announce

here in a moment, but let's go ahead and get that
intro video started.

[dramatic music]

MATT: Welcome back. All right, this is Critical
Role: a show where a bunch of voice actors play

Dungeons and Dragons. Fun crazy nerds rolling dice
and good times. With the adventures of Vox

Machina. You're doing all right Travis. Couple
quick things: Me and Marisha wanted to say a quick

shout out to all of our Critters who came to visit
us in Wellington, New Zealand at Armageddon Expo.

We had a strong showing of Critters that was
really amazing from across the world. And

Australia. People could fly over from Australia
just to get us to sign their books, so there's a

lot of really awesome fan love out there. So you
guys are great.

MARISHA: Maybe next time all of us could go? You
guys should tell them.

MATT: Oh man, a Down Under Kiwi trip for all
Critical Role would be a lot of fun. Send your

local-- I guess you don't have a congressman,
because you're a different country.

ORION: Your "Con-gressman."

MATT: Oh there you go. Orion saved it. Thank you.

ORION: It was there the whole time, Matt.

(laughter)

MATT: Disadvantage. All right, so first and
foremost, couple things I want to get up here. We

had our sub giveaways this evening. For every 50
subs, we give away a signed player's handbook by

the cast of Critical Role, a signed photo of the
cast. And tonight especially we're also giving

away in that package Espionage nail packs,
specifically with our fantastic gamer dice on the

tips. Espionage Cosmetics were gracious to give
these to us, and we will give them to you.

Every 50 subs.

MARISHA: Awesome. Go follow them on Twitter; I
think they're @espionagemakeup. Just look it up.

They're awesome.

MATT: Google it. However, we already have a
winner, before the show started. That's

explodingiggy. So congratulations to
explodingiggy. You already got one more to come.

The fun and interesting challenge for this evening
as we've been made aware, you guys, being the

ridiculously amazing people you are. One of you
crafted a challenge for yourself. That if we can

manage to somehow get to 5,000 subscribers before
the end of the show tonight, they will create and

send an eight-foot Trinket. Like eight-foot-tall
Trinket bear.

MARISHA: Yeah which is vague. A little. What's it
made out of?

ZAC: It's a teddy bear. It's a giant teddy bear.

LAURA: And maybe his little paws can be on my
shoulder the whole time I play?

MATT: Oh, he would be a perpetual staple of the
set. That would be behind you at all times.

ZAC: Cool, not difficult at all, guys! Totally not
difficult at all!

MARISHA: Yes, but we have to get to 5,000
subscribers.

TALIESIN: Trojan horse and a suit that they wear.
They could sneak themselves

onto the stage that way.

MATT: I'll get inside the teddy bear, and I'll act
out Trinket during the game. Perfect. That's not

going to happen. It might happen. That's if we hit
5000 subscribers, so all your friends you know

that watch the show who don't subscribe yet, tell
them to. If you know anyone that hasn't seen the

show yet, get them on, because a giant eight-foot
bear would be pretty much the

most ridiculous thing ever.

MARISHA: Yeah, I already tweeted #8ftTrinket.

LAURA: I saw something subs for bears.

ORION: Nope. Bad idea.

MATT: (laughs) Yeah, subs for bears is a whole
section of Craigslist you don't want to go to. Or

you do, if that's your thing. All right, so. Happy
to be back from Comic Con. We had a great panel

and great turnout there. Thank you for those who came and
those who watched the panel. If you haven't seen

it yet, the panel is available on the Geek and
Sundry website. You can watch it. And as we all

know, last episode we said goodbye temporarily to
our fantastic gnome cleric, Pike. She's off in New

York shooting awesome television shows, but she's
here in spirit.

LIAM: It's going to be great.

LAURA: It's going to be a good show.

MATT: Also, as a reminder, our charity that we run
here for the show is to 826LA. 826LA is a

fantastic charity that promotes and teaches
creative writing to younger kids between the ages

of 8 and 16, I think it was. Somewhere in that
range?

MARISHA: K through High School.

MATT: K through High School. Fantastic program,
and anything you can do to help is much

appreciated and awesome. And, Marisha, if you want
to go ahead and take this away. We have a new

addition to our set coming next week.

MARISHA: It's so awesome! I had the absolute
pleasure of joining Felicia on the latest episode

of The Flog. Go check it out. It's back. I love
that show. She wanted to make a neon sign, and she

was like, "Let's do a Critical Role sign." Because
she's a fan of our show, which is awesome. She's

probably watching right now. Love you, Felicia. So
this was it, unfortunately. Yes, are we ready to

do the honors? Ready? For Vox Machina!

(cheering)

MARISHA: So yeah, that's probably going to be up
on our set next week, blessing us with its

rose-colored glow. Go watch, if you want to see
how we made it. We got this awesome tutorial. It's

cool. You can go and learn how to make neon signs
yourself.

ORION: And it's all science-y too.

MARISHA: It's all science-y. It's totally nerdy
awesome. Yeah, krypton. But yes. Here we go. All

right, say bye-bye to the sign for now.

MATT: It'll be back.

ZAC: Hey, Matt. We already have another 50
winner.

(laughter)

ZAC: It was SonicaMoto.

MATT: SonicaMoto is our new winner, already.
Congratulations, SonicaMoto.

LIAM: We need less than 300 subs for that bear. I
think we can do that.

I think that's pretty likely.

MARISHA: You get nail wraps.

MATT: You get a bear behind us for the rest of the
show.

MARISHA: You get a player's handbook signed by us.

TALIESIN: Encourage this. Oh no, encourage this.
(laughs) I encourage bear.

ORION: (laughing) I do encourage... Nope. Okay. I
am a trained comedian. That is not a thing.

MATT: Last but not least, before we get started,
we do have one guest in the studio who's been watching

for a bit tonight. Our good friend, Jor√© is over
here from quite a distance.

We met him at Comic Con.

TRAVIS: Put your head right here.

MATT: A fantastically talented artist. For those
of you who have seen my profile picture on Twitter

or Facebook, the really amazing artwork of me as a
dungeon master, this is the man that did it. Where

can they see your work online?

JORE: I have a Facebook--

MARISHA and ORION: Drop down.

JROE: There's a Facebook page. You can search
J-O-R-E on Facebook, and that's probably me. If

you see Matt's picture, then that's me.

TRAVIS: And my Grog raging one with blood covering
his face. (growls)

MATT: Go ahead and have a seat.

MARISHA: Speaking of amazing artists. We want to
do a shout out.

ORION: There's a couple more announcements. This
one.

MARISHA: This one, yes.

ORION: Our wonderful artists. Kit Buss and...

MARISHA: Kit Buss and Wendy Doodles. Wendy Green.
They're awesome friends of ours and fans of the

show. They do amazing work. They've done a lot of
the character work that you've seen, and they're

going to be doing a lot more, and we just wanted
to really appreciate them and show them some love,

so yes. Go follow.

ORION: Our artists. As Laura would say.

LAURA: That's good. That's very see-able.

MARISHA: Okay. Is it see-able now? I want to make
sure. Go follow them. They deserve it.

MATT: They've been really amazing. I know many of
you have asked about what's the backstory to Vox

Machina? What's that history before the stream
started? We're working on something. It may take a

little bit, but one or more of those artists may
be involved. But when we do have that available

to you, it should be really cool, and I hope
you'll enjoy it. Anyway.

ORION: Oh, also, since this is fantasy, I'd like
to announce that my show went pretty well that's

on Mondays, 7-10 on this channel.

TALIESIN: You have a show? What kind of show is
it?

ORION: Ooh, I'm glad you asked, Taliesin. It is me
and Jessica Merizan playing Final Fantasy XIV. We

just found each other in the same world. There's a
free company we're going to start. You can come on

and join if you're already subscribing. We do
giveaways for subscribers who are watching and

active in the chat during the show for stuff with
Square Enix. It's all good times. I'm happy to say

that Taliesin, man, Thancred is still in this
version of Final Fantasy XIV, so you can check his

work out too, and he's awesome. The funny thing is
I didn't know your character was like a badass. So

I was listening to him and I was like "Oh fuck".
Yeah, he's great. So check it out. Every Monday

7-10 on the channel.

MATT: There you go. Also all you League fans out
there, I hope you're enjoying your new Bilgewater

update. Anyone else have any announcements they
want to make?

LAURA: Oh we're going to be at Otakon this weekend
in Baltimore. Come say hi!

We're leaving right after this.

TALIESIN: I've got a tiny announcement, which is
Ant-Man the movie is really good. If you like

Ant-Man the movie, you can hear me as Ant-Man,
being not nearly as funny, in the pinball game.

I'm not nearly as funny as Paul Rudd.

ORION: Oh pish posh.

ZAC: Matt? We've got another giveaway.

TALIESIN: Yeah!

MARISHA: (singing) Eight-foot Trinket, here we
come!

ZAC: OhGreatLampShade.

MATT: OhGreatLampShade is the winner of our next
giveaway.

LIAM: OhGreatLampShade, we thank thee for thy
mercy.

MATT: Congratulations. Player's Handbook signed,
picture signed, and nail wraps. And a step closer

to giant eight-foot Trinket.

TRAVIS: Don't do it. No more.

LIAM: Are you sad that you will no longer be the
tallest member of our group?

LAURA: I feel like we're just delaying starting
because we're going to have to face that fact that

Pike isn't with us as soon as we start.

TRAVIS: And Scanlan's still in the pooper. He's
not really.

MARISHA: Yeah, where is Scanlan?

LIAM: He's shitting on a bed somewhere. It's his
thing.

MATT: Is he on his way?

LAURA: He's on his way, yeah.

MATT: Well when he arrives... In the meantime--

TRAVIS: Where are you going?

ORION: I'm going to get something to drink.

LAURA: He's getting a drink.

MATT: Okay. As Tiberius has an aneurysm and falls
to the ground--

TRAVIS: Yes! I go over and provide very vigorous
CPR. No mouth to mouth, just that hand part.

MATT: Yeah. All right, make a death save.

ORION: What? Ow!

(cheering)

ORION: And I brought Scanlan with me.

MARISHA: (laughs) Like a trailing fart.

TRAVIS: (laughing) "Like a trailing fart."

ORION: That couldn't have worked out better.

SAM: Oh really?

LAURA: What is he wearing?

TRAVIS: "Asp Hole?" What does it say? "Where you"
what?

SAM: It's the Asp Hole.

LIAM: Asp. Hole.

SAM: It's just a bar that I like to go to. Down at
the Asp Hole.

LIAM: And I got shit for talking about bears
today.

MATT: No, I'm pretty sure that's somewhere in
Emon.

(laughter)

TRAVIS: And we'll find it.

SAM: Yeah, we'll find the Asp Hole.

MATT: Yeah, so let's actually start this game,
guys. Thank you for being patient with our intro

here. We've been gone for two weeks. We have a lot
to talk about, so thank you for letting us get

that out. So picking up where we left off, the
party completed the venture of taking the horn of

Orcus to a place of safety and sealing it away,
hopefully for eternity, with the help of Lady

Kima, to the scalebearers. After heading to the
basement of the Platinum Sanctuary in the city of

Vasselheim, they've succeeded to do so.
Vasselheim, which is a distant city to the far

northwest of the continent they're used to. This
city is a very devout, religion-based city, and

currently considered the oldest bastion of
civilization in the known civilized world. After

taking a skyship across the ocean to get there,
sealing the Horn, you guys also discover upon

doing so that the ruins, long-forgotten ruins, of
what appears to be an ancient temple to Sarenrae

were recently discovered. While Sarenrae does not
have a strong following in this city, the few that

are trying to raise it ask for Pike's help to stay
back and help build it and bring it to its former

glory. Hopefully to re-establish a basis of
worship in this city, and she decided to help

these folks. The party then steps away from the
ruins of the tower,

sad but understanding of the circumstance.

LIAM: Perhaps we could sit on a nearby rooftop and
watch Pike work.

LAURA: Just for the next eight months?

TRAVIS: I'd be all right with that.

MARISHA: That's not creepy at all.

MATT: Critical Role all of a sudden becomes the
greatest grass-watching game of all time. As you

all stand there, you have to decide your next
course of action. You stand in the muddy road,

taking in the cold dusk air as the sun slowly sets
to the west. Now, this area of the city has a

vastly different feel than the Platinum Sanctuary.
In the haste to make it to the ruin, you've passed

out of the section that seems to be under
Bahamut's watch and into a different area. In this

area, most of the buildings are reinforced with
ruddy iron plates. Plumes of smoke rise up from a

handful of heavy smokestacks. You can see over the
rooftops in the distance toward the center of this

section what looks like a massive dark red statue
of a muscular bearded man.

LIAM: The beauty of this game is I have no idea
what the shit we're going to do right now.

SAM: So we're standing outside the place where we
just left Pike?

MATT: Yeah, the ruins of the tower.

MARISHA: So we're essentially standing in the
middle of a town being like, now what?

LAURA: Should we go look at that statue, then?

TALIESIN: I want to see if there's an
inscription.

MATT: If you'd like to.

TALIESIN: Yes, that would be lovely.

SAM: While he's doing that, Scanlan is feeling
still terribly sad about leaving Pike. So overcome

with emotion that he must step into the ruins one
last time, just to see the place where she's going

to be for the next several months, years. And
before I do so, I drink one of my potions that I

bought from what's-his-butt. Gilmore, the glorious
Gilmore. Yes.

MATT: All right.

SAM: I don't know how it works, but I'm going to
drink it anyway.

MATT: Okay, you drink it.

SAM: Okay, I drink it. I go inside the ruins and
look around and touch some of the walls and look

at the stonework and everything. I want to see
where she's going to be so I know she's safe.

Overcome with a little bit of verklempt emotion, I
shed a single tear.

MATT: As you quietly take this moment to yourself
amongst the ruins, you can hear the clattering of

stonework as the small band of Sarenrae worshipers
are now being helped by Pike, who's gathered them

into a plan as to how to remove and restore
portions of the building that are currently

visible from the dirt and earth that it's embedded
in. Hearing her voice echo through the hallway,

it's a very comforting sense. You feel a rumbling
in your stomach.

SAM: I feel uncomfortable. It must be the
emotion.

MATT: It's probably the emotion.

SAM: I find a side chamber or a little nook.
Somewhere where I can have some privacy.

MATT: Okay. You find your way back towards the
makeshift wooden plank stairway and there was a

small alcove not far from there within the earth
wall that looks to be relatively private. There's

little to no light, and it does have a view of the
current ruin.

SAM: I say a little prayer, and I take a big dump
on the floor.

TRAVIS: (laughing) No you do not!

SAM: Well, my stomach was rumbling.

TRAVIS: (laughing) You're in a temple, man!

LAURA: Pike's probably going to have to be the one to
clean that up!

SAM: Sometimes it just affects me. I have weak
nerves. And as I'm squatting, I hum to myself.

(singing) How do I say goodbye to what we almost
had?

ORION: This is not romantic at all, you know that,
right?

MATT: Welcome back, guys.

MARISHA: I've missed you guys so much.

MATT: As you finish your business, you step away
from the alcove back to the stairway. The contents

of the potion seem to have had some effect, as the
remnants of what you leave behind have a very soft

blue glowing hue to them.

SAM: I left a magic dump.

TRAVIS: Do we need to collect the dump?

SAM: Nope. We should leave the dump.

LAURA: Are you going to be able to see through the
dump?

TRAVIS: He's covering his face. I think we need
the blue shit.

MARISHA: Can you cast Detect Magic on the poo?

SAM: It's already magical poo.

ORION: Are we there? We're not there.

LAURA: We're not there. It's just Scanlan.

ORION: Okay. So he's just shitting.

LAURA: He's just leaving it.

SAM: So I leave and rejoin my fellows, wiping the
tear from my eye and the poo from my bottom.

ORION: Well, I love you Ashley. I do.

MARISHA: This is what happens when we don't have
any direction.

TRAVIS: But what's the purpose of the potion? To
make your poo blue?

SAM: I took a potion that will let me see through
my poo and check in on Pike from time to time.

LAURA: Will she realize you can see her through
the poop?

SAM: I certainly hope not.

LAURA: Wouldn't that be great if she could just
talk to you through the poo?

LIAM: Why aren't the priests going to shovel that
shit up?

SAM: As long as some of my cellular remains are
there, I might be able to see

a little bit into the room.

LIAM: What's "cellular?"

SAM: (laughs) It's poo.

LIAM: Oh, you mean little flakes of poo.

MATT: For the sake of brevity in story progression
here, and to dissuade a 30-minute conversation

about Scanlan's excrement. After you've rejoined
the party, the sun is now set. The cold air is

beginning to really sweep in through the streets.
The clouds overhead begin to slowly rumble and you

can hear distant thunder, and you get the feeling
due to the moisture in the air, you're not too far

away from a rain.

LAURA: Should we bunk for the night before we head
out in the morning?

TALIESIN: I say we head to the ship.

TRAVIS: Wasn't there a guy with a red beard we
were supposed to go see?

LAURA: I wanted to wander over to the statue while
Scanlan was dumping.

SAM: I feel great right now, by the way.

TALIESIN: Finding some relief in the situation.

ORION: Damn it. Just when I was starting to like
you, gnome.

LIAM: Moving on. Let's go take a look at this
statue.

MATT: (chuckling) All right.

SAM: It's magic poo!

LIAM: Don't change, Scanlan.

MATT: As you guys make your way through the center
of this district--

LAURA: I feel like it's dark now.

MATT: Yeah. You get the sense that this area, most
of the people that live in this area are more

rough-and-tumble than the already-rough people
who live in Vasselheim, from what you've

encountered. The buildings themselves all seem to
be reinforced with iron plates and it looks like

there is a very heavy trade in metalwork, and a
lot of the construction of anything metallic

appears to be coming through or from this portion
of the town. As you approach closer to this

statue, it's not just a statue. You see it is
actually sitting atop what looks to be a large,

blocky fortress-like temple. Unlike the Platinum
Sanctuary, which is a very beautiful but simple

array, this one has a crenellated top to each of
these walled structures. You can see braziers

blasting flame every 20 or so feet along the top
of it. You can see, as you approach the front of

this, there are two giant stone doorways with
steps that look up to it and what looks to be two

gargantuan war horns that spiral along the sides
and then open up outward towards the entire city

in front of it. I'm going to ask you guys to make
a religion check, if you could.

TRAVIS: Oh, I got this.

ORION: Natural 20!

TALIESIN: Yeah! Natural 20.

TALIESIN and ORION: Boom!

ORION: That's so cool.

TRAVIS: Natural four.

TALIESIN: Because we know our shit.

MATT: As you guys begin your approach, even in the
darkness, you can see the figure, this human-like

man. Barrel-chested. Massive muscles. What looks
almost like iron bracers around his wrists. He is

carved or sculpted from solid iron or plates that
have been put together from some sort of iron

initial structure. The beard is long and goes to
about mid-chest. He carries in one hand this long,

thick shortsword and has furs and leathers about
his legs and midsection. You recognize this to be

a very hefty depiction of the deity Kord.

LAURA, SAM, and TRAVIS: Kord?

TRAVIS: I admire his beard.

MATT: It is a beard worth admiring.

MARISHA: How might one spell Kord?

MATT: K-O-R-D.

MARISHA: Simple. I like that.

SAM: He's a god of some sort?

MATT: He is, indeed.

TALIESIN: Tell us of this Kord. Try to find your
notes of this Kord.

LAURA: He's a dwarven god?

MATT: Not dwarven.

LIAM: A man. Human.

MATT: Kord is essentially a deity of warfare,
combat, and storms. A god that has been

long-worshipped by tribal cultures from long past
that enjoyed the essence of battle

and challenge and combat.

LIAM: Did you say storms, Tiberius? War and combat
and storms?

ORION: Storms, yes. Storms and winds.

MATT: And quickly, the motif of this section of
the town comes into play. This, you assume, is the

portion of the city that is dedicated to the
temple of Kord,

this being the structure before you.

MARISHA: Does it seem to be a central theme across
the whole town? This town worships Kord?

MATT: No. You've only really been to two sections.
The first one you were brought to was primarily

under the worship of Bahamut, the Platinum
Dragon.

MARISHA: Okay. (giggles)

TALIESIN: Getting the giggles out.

TRAVIS: Did you look at it? Did you use your fancy
eyes to look at it?

TALIESIN: Well, my question is, is this a temple?
If it is a temple to Kord, is this a place of

battle? Is this somewhere where people go watch
battles and fighting?

MATT: From the exterior, and it is a closed-off
temple, it looks like a large, blocky, obstinate

fortress that is nearly impenetrable from the way
it's constructed and reinforced. You don't know

what's inside of it.

LIAM: There's a big gate or door at the front?

MATT: Two large iron doors about 20 feet tall that
are currently shut. It's about five or six steps

getting up to it.

LAURA: And it's nighttime?

MATT: It is nighttime currently, yes.

LIAM: Are there any citizens out right now, or are
we alone in the dark?

MATT: As it has gotten to dusk, it's thinned out a
little bit, but there are a few individuals

walking by, carrying pickaxes over one shoulder
and passing by.

LIAM: I'd like to walk over to the nearest one and
ask.

SAM: To who?

LIAM: To a passerby.

MATT: The two gentlemen, one's in his mid-20s. The
one that turns to you initially probably looks a

little older than that. Late 30s, grizzled. Shaven,
but the five-o'clock shadow has definitely kicked

in. Longer, tousled hair, dirt on the face. Simple
clothing, pickaxe over his shoulder and what looks

like a leather belt that carries other tools.

SAM: These are dwarves?

MATT: These are human. "Yes? I heard you
calling."

LIAM: Excuse me, good sir. My friend over here,
the dragonborn. He seems to think that this is

some sort of temple or edifice to the god Kord. I
just want to know, is he correct?

MATT: "Is this your first time in the Braving
Grounds?"

ORION: In Dwarvish, I say--

SAM: They're not dwarves.

MATT: You can still say it, though.

(laughter)

LIAM: Yes, absolutely! This is our first time. We
literally just rolled into Vasselheim. What can

you tell us of this? It's an impressive
structure.

MATT: The younger gentleman next to him, similarly
dressed, begins to speak up. He puts his hand up

and goes, "The Braving Grounds is the area of this
city that is built around the worship of the great

"god Kord. His protection and strength he bestows
upon those who live for the sake of challenge. To

"prove oneself better with each passing day, that
is the basis of the Braving Grounds."

LAURA: So it's like a battleground?

MATT: "It's a community that when called to battle
can definitely defend itself.

"What you see before you--" He looks up at 
the giant structure. "This

"is called the Trial Forge. It is the oldest known 
temple to Kord and has been built and rebuilt for

"many, many hundreds of years."

ORION: (chuckles) Hence forge, right?

LIAM: And does one need to be a priest or cleric
of this faith to challenge oneself?

Or can anyone--

TRAVIS: Worship?

MATT: "Anyone is able to worship what deity they
wish in this town. We have an understanding. If

"you're looking for a tussle, what you're looking
for is the Crucible."

TRAVIS: Yes. What else can you tell us about this
Crucible?

MATT: "The Crucible is a fighting pit. I mean,
there is a sacred arena within the temple, but

"that's reserved for very, very special occasions.
If you're looking to just get your fight on and

"punch someone in the face, the Crucible is what
you're looking for." He spits off to the side and

points a little ways down the roadway.

MARISHA: I think Grog wants to go.

MATT: "Beyond that way, you'll see a tavern known
as the Bellows' Respite."

SAM: Bellows' Respite.

MATT: "One of the finer inns you'll find in the
Braving Grounds proper, but I take it if you walk

"that direction, you'll see the Crucible before too
long."

LAURA: Have you ever fought in the Crucible?

MATT: "Me? No. Too busy. Too many people better
fighters than me in there.

"I'll just stick to the mines."

MARISHA: Are these battles to the death?

MATT: "Nah. These are battles of honor. Death
belongs in a true war. Mind you, there have been

"some folks unfortunately who may have fallen to a
hit on the head too hard, and that's

"understandable. But the purpose of Kord is not
necessarily to smite your foes unless they've

"given you damn good reason. Other than that,
contest of strength is how we live."

ORION: A friendly sparring match is what we're
about.

LIAM: That's this neighborhood of Vasselheim, not
the city as a whole, just in these parts?

MATT: "For the most part. I mean, we have members
of our community that are Bastions and guard the

"whole city, but we tend to keep our own--"

(off-screen crash)

MATT: "Pardon my friend. He's clumsy." And the
other gentleman

picks up his tools and is like, "Sorry."

TRAVIS: Have you been to this Crucible often, and
if so, is there a champion or a favorite that

you've seen or know of?

MATT: "We have some people come in and out.
Probably best to ask around the Crucible, to be

"honest. I've seen some people take some serious
beatings down there. I haven't kept much attention

"to it. I haven't the money to sling around it."

LAURA: The money? Wait, it costs money?

MATT: "What, you think there's going to be fights
in a pit and no one's betting on it? Welcome to

"Vasselheim, my dear."

TRAVIS: We're going to be rich!

ORION: What if there are two people fighting the
town does not know?

MATT: "I don't know. Take it up at the Crucible."

TRAVIS: How far is the Crucible from here?

MATT: "Keep walking. You'll see it."

LAURA: Keep walking? Thank you, friend.

MATT: "My pleasure. Kord's strength to you." And
he keeps on walking.

TRAVIS: Kord's strength.

SAM: Kord's strength to you.

MATT: No, core strength.

LAURA: Sit-ups. Crunches.

TRAVIS: Core strength to you. Namaste.

MATT: You guys walk beyond the Trial Forge, back
towards the path where you came off to the side on

the left and you can see most of the buildings,
their internal lighting is very low; you can see

most folks either go to bed at this evening or at
least keep a very low visual profile from their

abodes. However, lights are blazing from the
interior of this three-story inn. The Bellows'

Respite is definitely a rowdy place. You can hear
already the shouts and music streaming from the

interior of it. You gather that, while there are a
lot of people inside you can see at the windows

and openings to the inside of the tavern, there is
a large group gathered in the middle of the

thoroughfare just outside of it. Looks like a
circle of individuals that are all shouting and

screaming over each other, big fist-pumps to the
air, some folks are angrily throwing their coin

purses to the ground.

TRAVIS: Like a kid getting too close to an
amusement park, I take off running.

MATT: Grog starts running up, bounding up the way,
you can see the actual--

MARISHA: Grog? Grog, not too far ahead!

TRAVIS: Okay!

LIAM: I don't start running, but I'm following
behind him and I take out my Keen Dagger and just

start sort of dancing it across my hand as I
follow after him.

MATT: David Bowie and the glass orb.

LIAM: Yes, exactly.

ORION: Is there a registry or something like
that?

MATT: Actually, as you approach you can see there
is no registry, there is quite literally a pit in

the ground. It's a 15, 20-foot dip. It is a
carved-out pit, maybe no more than I'd say 25, 30

feet across. And there is no ladder, there is no
step going down, there's just two people in there

beating the ever-living crap out of each other and
a crowd of people gathering around. You do see

what looks to be two very well-dressed gentlemen
that are in the process of collecting and paying

out, and you approach just as the final hit takes
to this gentleman's jaw, this tattooed individual,

you can see bloodied in the face, nose broken,
teeth knocked out, this poor, poor human fellow

gets knocked clean onto the ground. You can see
standing over his body this extremely built,

aggressive, looks like another human female with
her hair pulled back in a very tight ponytail just

spits on his body, turns around and wipes the
blood from the front of her face. Snaps her

fingers, and you can see folks bring a ladder and
lean it over the side and she climbs up the ladder

as everyone cheers on her way up.

MARISHA: Before we get up to the crowd, I
transform into Minxie. I'm going Minxie. And I

catch up to Grog. Going Minxie.

TRAVIS: Oh, they don't like magic.

MARISHA: Did they see me? I'm trying to do it
stealthily before it happens.

MATT: You can make a stealth check if you like.
You do know through the discussions that it's

arcane magic that seems to be the shunned element
in this town. As it is a town of worship, divine

magic for the most part seems okay.

MARISHA: Everyone saw me. It's fine.

MATT: Everyone would've seen you if they weren't
currently enraptured by the chaos. Those who did

notice probably didn't seem to care much other
than a giant tiger now walks up to them.

TRAVIS: Can I grab the nearest person near me,
turn whoever's shoulder that is, and go,

who is she?

MATT: As you pull the shoulder around, you can see
a rather portly human fellow, balding on top with

long Benjamin Franklin-looking hair. Very nice
robes, turns.

"Are you new to this town, then, is it?"

TRAVIS: Yeah, very new.

MATT: "That's the Siren. The Siren."

ORION: I approach and saunter next to Grog.

TRAVIS: The Siren?

MATT: "She's the one you bet on. Trust me on
that." As he walks over to, you can see another

one of these gentlemen, very well-dressed, hair
slicked back. Tall, thin human in very, very fine

purple robes, collects some people's money, begins
giving out a few things, pulls out a notebook with

a little charter he's in the middle of putting notes
in.

LAURA: Hello. How would we enter a new fighter
into this pit?

MATT: "Well, actually, that was the last fighter
scheduled for the evening."

TRAVIS: Be a pity not to have one more.

MATT: "You wish to fight?"

TRAVIS: Wish? It's more like an itch. A need.

MATT: He puts his arm out and the crowd steps back
a bit and he takes a good, long head-to-toe

up-and-down look at you, walks around from side to
side inspecting you. He gets a little bit close

and reaches out, not even asking, he starts
grabbing the side of your arms.

MARISHA: I start growling a little bit.

TRAVIS: Oh yeah, watch out.

MATT: "Calm down, kitty, calm down." Steps back.
"Well, it's not too late. What caliber of fighter

"do you consider yourself?"

TRAVIS: Caliber?

MATT: "Who do you want to fight?"

SAM: Who are the options?

ORION: Could he fight anyone?

TRAVIS: This is my friend, Scanlan.

SAM: I'm more of his manager than his friend,
actually. Hi, I'm Scanlan.

MATT: "Pleasure."

SAM: Pleasure's all mine. My brute over here, who
can he battle, what are his options?

MATT: "This late in the evening--"

LIAM: I'll fight him.

SAM: Excuse me?

LIAM: I said I'll fight him.

MATT: "I apologize. If you're going to have
someone enter the arena worth betting on, they

"have to go up against one of our proven fighters
first. However, once your friend here gets his

"face beaten in, you're more than welcome to join
him in the ring thereafter."

TRAVIS: I haven't laughed so hard in my entire
life. Face beaten, he says. Face beaten!

MATT: "You're mighty confident, aren't you?"

TRAVIS: It's my middle-- I only have one name.

(laughter)

TRAVIS: If I did.

SAM: It would be that.

TRAVIS: Yeah.

MATT: "Well, first and foremost, all bets begin at
100 gold pieces."

LAURA: 100 gold? Is that all?

MATT: "You can increase the bet, if you'd like."

LAURA: I'd love to.

MATT: "What would you like to bet?"

LAURA: 500 gold on this one right here.

MATT: "Is she the only one betting?"

SAM: She bets for all of us.

LIAM: I'll put a thousand down right now that I
can beat the big guy.

SAM: You mean Grog?

LIAM: Of my own money. Yes.

LAURA: You can't fight him yet!

LIAM: I can't? Rules are meant to be bent and
stretched. Am I right?

MATT: "You're going to put your money down between
your friends to fight your friends."

LIAM: It's a contentious relationship.

MATT: His eyes have already wandered from your
face, he says, "500 gold on the goliath. Do we

"hear anything else?" A few other individuals step
up and start telling him like, "50 gold down."

"It's a hundred-gold minimum." 
"100 gold."

SAM: Who is he fighting?

TRAVIS: We don't know yet.

SAM: We have to bet before we see the meat?

MATT: "Unproven fighters with a grandiose sense of
self-ability enjoy the surprise."

TALIESIN: So what sort of odds are we talking
about, then?

MATT: "For this one, based on your height, reach,
strength and arrogance,

"I'd put you at four-to-one against."

LAURA: Four-to-one.

TRAVIS: Okay.

ORION: It's okay, Grog. He doesn't know that
you've beaten up a lot of people.

SAM: Don't tell him.

ORION: Oh, right.

TRAVIS: I've got this scar here. How does he think
I got it?

SAM: Those are fair odds, we'll take that.

MATT: "All right. 500 gold. Is this all I'm
hearing?"

TRAVIS: A hundred of my own gold on me.

MATT: "600 gold."

TALIESIN: Hold on.

SAM: I'll bet 50 gold against him. We have to
hedge!

MATT: "100 gold is the minimum bet."

SAM: Well then, I can't afford it. I'm sorry. We
have to hedge.

LAURA: You're going to get it, Grog. You're going
to do it. I have faith in you.

ORION: I'll put 500 gold on the goliath.

LAURA: Oh my god. We're going to lose all our
money on Grog. No we're not.

MATT: "All right. Last bets, last bets!" Everyone
starts putting in their cash. A couple folks

frenzy over, you see a couple guys--

LIAM: I put a thousand on the goliath.

SAM: What?

LIAM: 1,000 gold on the goliath.

LAURA: Sing a song. Do you use arcane magic or do
you use divine magic? Just sing a song, Scanlan.

MATT: "It seems your friends are confident in your
ability. Let's hope we can put their money where

"your mouth is."

TRAVIS: In my mouth?

SAM: It's an expression.

MATT: "All right."

MARISHA: I brush against Grog. And I cast
Stoneskin on him.

SAM: Will that show?

MARISHA: Does that show?

MATT: You cannot cast a spell when you're in beast
form.

LIAM: Plus, kitty, you did that once and it didn't
work out so well.

ORION: As I notice what the cat's doing, I'm
standing right next to him, so I do it

with my hand instead.

LIAM: You got caught with your hand in the cookie
jar.

MATT: As you begin casting the spell, immediately
the guy says, "You do that one more time and

"you're all disqualified from ever competing."

ORION: Okay. I'm sorry, I just thought I'd give my
friend an advantage.

TALIESIN: He'll be fine. Look at him. He'll be
fine.

ORION: Yes, I have two eyes.

MATT: At which point, the other individual
whispers into the initial bookie's ear.

"Yes. Retrieve him, please."

TRAVIS: Him?

MATT: "For this fight, we have a newcomer. A
newcomer who is named--"

TRAVIS: Should I have a fancy name?

SAM: Yeah, you should have a fancy fighting name.

ORION: Grog the Destroyer.

TRAVIS: Phillip.

(laughter)

ORION: No, that's like the opposite of what I
said.

MATT: "Phillip, the newcomer, has decided to hedge
his and his friends' savings that he, upon what I

"can only imagine is his first arrival into
Vasselheim, to get his face pummeled by our

"current standing champion: Kern the Hammer."

At this point, the crowd immediately goes quiet
and whispering, you can see a few individuals now

walking over, ushering this man, looks like he
just stepped out of the nearby mines, he's got

coal dirt on his face. When I say man, it is a
six-foot-six, very visibly half-orc gentleman,

built like some sort of thick-ass building you've
walked past coming through here. Bald head, big,

bristly mustache, and a face that's obviously
taken a beating over the years. He walks up

nonchalantly, just wearing a simple tattered
tunic, leather pants and boots. You can see him

like cracking his fingers. He looks over to the
side at one of the guys. "They better have pulled

"me out of work for a good reason. Who am I up
against?"

TRAVIS: I envy your facial hair.

MATT: "I envy your currently unbroken face.
Currently."

TRAVIS: I'm going to kill him. That's a rule,
right? I'm not supposed to kill him?

LAURA: You're not supposed to kill him. No killing
allowed in this?

MATT: The bookie steps forward. "No killing.
Fighting until one falls."

TRAVIS: What happens if they start to cry?

MATT: "Then you keep punching."

TRAVIS: I like it.

MATT: "No weapons. No armor. Fists against fists
until one of them falls. Lower the ladder." As

they put the ladder down into the arena. You can
see the orc gentleman pulls out a small, enclosed,

almost like a wineskin, like an iron wineskin,
unscrews it and drinks it all down.

TRAVIS: Kern the Shithead does?

MATT: Yeah. Puts it down, throws it to the ground,
with a ting-ting-ting.

LAURA: Wait, what was in that? Was that wine?

MATT: "It is customary to drink before a fight."

TRAVIS: Can I have my cask of ale, real fast?

LAURA: Wait, does anybody have a Potion of
Stoneskin or anything good?

MATT: As everyone gathers around, you can now see
people are coming back out of the tavern to gather

around the outskirts of the Crucible. Grog gets
lowered down the ladder.

SAM: Oh, he's already down?

MATT: Well, Grog, what else do you want to do
before you prepare?

TRAVIS: What do I want to do to prepare?

MATT: Well, if you haven't gone down yet. The
other guy has come down the ladder.

TRAVIS: I took a drink from the cask of ale--

SAM: Wait, I come over to Grog and I just look in
his eyes and I say, listen, you've got this, I

can't give you anything else, but you've got this,
man. And I also very quickly take out my Potion of

Fire Giant Strength and I slip it to him before he
takes a drink of his ale.

I don't know if I hand it to him.

MATT: Make a stealth check.

SAM: Okay. (squeaks) Nope.

MATT: What did you roll?

SAM: Oh, that's a six. So eight.

MATT: All right. As you walk towards him and begin
looking in his eyes, as you begin to pull out the

flask, a hand grasps your wrist. And you glance
over and you can see one of the burly human

gentlemen that escorted Kern the Hammer in is
currently grasping your arm and says, "I'm

"watching you. One more try and I'll throw you in
there. We'll go down ourselves."

SAM: It's for my asthma. I promise.

MATT: Shoves you back away, still clutching it.
Looks to you, Grog, up into your eyes. "You going

"to climb down and fight or you going to be a pussy
about it?"

TRAVIS: That's a really good question. I would
like to rage. And I jump in the fucking pit.

MATT: You leap over the side, completely avoiding
the ladder, both feet hitting the ground with a

heavy thud sound. The packed dust kicks up around
your feet.

SAM: Come on, Phillip! Kick his ass!

MATT: At which point, the other orc's finished
cracking his knuckles, just kind of wipes the spit

off the edge of his chin, gives you a look
(growls) and you see a bit of foam toss from the

side of his mouth.

LIAM: Nobody fucks with Phil.

LAURA: I can smell you from here, Kern!

MATT: Go ahead and roll initiative.

TRAVIS: 20.

MATT: 20! All righty.

ORION: Oh shit, you got a 20?

MATT: All right. You actually probably would've
landed there from the run.

First round starts. You're up.

TRAVIS: I would like to cast Intimidating Presence
on Fern the Fucknut.

MATT: Kern. But it's better if Grog gets it
wrong.

TRAVIS: He never gets it right. Phillip, thank
you.

MATT: Phillip. All right, so. Use your action to
use Intimidating Presence? All right, so what's

the DC on that?

TRAVIS: Saving throw, 13.

MATT: 13. That will unfortunately not succeed. As
you glare at him with an angry Phillip glare, your

bellow echoing through the bottom of this
Crucible, which in itself forms a very interesting

acoustic amplifying of your yell, you can see Kern
on the other side is looking at you with the same

intense, burning rage.

SAM: Wait, that's your whole move?

MATT: And you can move if you like.

TRAVIS: I'll let him come to me.

MATT: Okay. All right. So as you stand there
waiting with fists at your side, Kern takes his

turn. You can see he begins to circle a little bit
around you as he begins to spiral about with an

unnerving speed, dashes forward, fists come
swinging, one, two. Both strikes coming towards

you. That is a 19.

TRAVIS: Misses.

MATT: This is all fisticuffs. That is a 24.

TRAVIS: That hits.

MATT: And as a bonus action, using his rage, a
third attack. That is a 21.

TRAVIS: That definitely hits.

MATT: All righty.

LIAM: Would you like to use my spiky die?

SAM: Don't do it. You got this, Phillip.

MATT: The first one does eight points of damage.
The second one does seven points of damage. As one

fist clips you across the chin, the other one goes
right into your abdominals. You're still tensing

and you feel the impact but you just take the
sheer weight of the force and flex and angrily

stare him down in return.

SAM: Phillip, do that thing where you move your
pecs up and down!

(laughter)

MATT: That's going to be a gif. And as you now see
Kern prepares for a second bout, it's your turn,

Grog. What are you doing?

TRAVIS: I would like to go into a frenzied rage. I
would like to start with a giant front-kick

forward and then hammer him down.

MATT: All right. Go for the first strike.

TRAVIS: Shit, that misses. Two.

MATT: That's probably going to miss.

TRAVIS: Yep. That's a 19.

MATT: 19 is going to hit.

TRAVIS: And also 19.

MATT: Both hit, yep. So you go to kick with the
front kick, and he dodges to the side. However,

you still, using your giant haymaker, the inertia
clips him across the face.

Go ahead and roll damage.

TRAVIS: That is a 16.

MATT: You're not fighting with your axe. This is
with your fists.

So rolling 1d4 and then half that.

SAM: Half that?

MATT: Yeah.

LAURA: You only get half damage of a d4?

MATT: Yep. But you still add your strength
modifier.

LIAM: So these guys both potentially have like a
hundred hit points.

TRAVIS: Six. It was four, and then half of that is
two, plus my modifier, which is four, so six.

MATT: Correct, so six damage. All righty.

TRAVIS: And then four.

MATT: All righty.

TRAVIS: This is what I use? For my fists? I got
big-ass fists! I got tattoos and shit on them. I

never shower, they fucking stink!

TALIESIN: You could do more damage if you hit him
with the die, because it's sharp, so you'd

actually get more damage with the d4.

MATT: All right. So your modifier is plus-- it's
plus three for the modifier?

TRAVIS: No, my modifier's plus four.

MATT: Okay, and then what did you roll on that?

TRAVIS: Two. Minus two.

MATT: Two, then five total.

TRAVIS: Oh, five, yeah.

MATT: There you go. All righty, cool. So you hit
him across the face and you hit him to the other

side. He comes back, aligns his chin, and you can
see he's now stooping in for some sort of an

uppercut as he slips to the side a little bit with
a sidestep. That will be a 25. A 20. And a one. So

what's your AC?

TRAVIS: 20.

MATT: All right, so both the first two hit. As he
comes low for a full-on uppercut, hitting you for,

that would be six points of damage (whack) under
the chin. As you're currently reeling from the

impact, he crouches down and is going to go for a
knee to the middle of your groin. That is another

six points of damage (whack) right in the Phillip
junk. You instinctively give out a (grunts) from

the impact. After that point, he comes up and it
looks like he tries to go for some sort of a

pile-drive grapple, and you instinctively kick off
of him and his third attack is completely wasted.

It's now your go.

TRAVIS: No one fucks with Phillip Jr. I would like
to bull rush and try and tackle him, and if it

succeeds, I'd like to headbutt him on the ground.

MATT: Okay, okay. It's an action to do that, so you
can use your bonus action to attempt--

TRAVIS: And I would only get two attacks, right?

MATT: You only get one with this, technically.
It's an action to grapple.

TRAVIS: Okay.

SAM: Do it.

TRAVIS: All right.

MATT: So go ahead and roll an athletics check.

TRAVIS: No, that's even better. 22.

MATT: 22. Yeah, you slam into him, knock him to
the ground, and you're now on top of him. He's

currently considered grappled, and you can go
ahead and attempt your headbutt.

TRAVIS: Say hi! (boosh) That's a lot. 24.

MATT: 24? Yeah, definitely. So go ahead and roll
damage on the same 1d4.

TRAVIS: 1d4? It's my head!

MATT: Yep.

SAM: Your head is so puny.

TRAVIS: It's got tattoos on it. One and a half.
Oh. One and a half plus my strength, right?

MATT: So if it's three or four it's considered
two. So six? All right. So as you tackle him to

the ground and he's trying to pull you off, you
reach up, (wham) just slam your forehead directly

into the center of his face. As you pull back you
can already see the blood streak off the front

of your head as his nose is smushed even further
into his gnarled facade. As you pull back, instead

of pain, he's laughing. (laughs) As it comes to
his turn, he's not attempting to break grapple.

He's going to reach up and grab you and attempt to
headbutt you in return.

TRAVIS: I like it.

MATT: That's going to be a 21. A 23. And a 19. All
right, that's a six, seven damage. So total of 13

damage. As he reaches up and slams you, slams you
again. And as you start backing up, he goes to

slam you a third time, and you catch his head in
the middle of your mitt, and he's now face-to-face

with you, just like (snarls). You guys are both
snarling at each other like two rabid beasts.

It's your go.

TRAVIS: I would like to keep his head right where
I have it and take my elbow and drive it down into

the bridge of his nose. So that's 25?

MATT: 25 hits.

TRAVIS: 22?

MATT: Hits.

TRAVIS: And 17.

MATT: 17 does miss. All right. So go ahead and
roll damage for the next two strikes.

TRAVIS: With this thing again? Six.

MATT: Six, all righty.

TRAVIS: It's hard to get above a six. And six.

MATT: Six, nice. So as you hold him down, his
face, (wham). Head goes, cracks against the ground

of the Crucible. As he starts picking his head up
again, you drill back again, (wham) hit him a

second time. This time, you can see now. His nose
was already busted before. Now it's nearly

concave. It's like he didn't have a nose before
and there's just a bloody void where it once was.

He's still smiling in a weird, twisted way. He
seems to be enjoying this almost as much as you.

You go down for the third one, and this time he
reaches up and grabs your elbow. He's going to

take his turn to attempt to break your grapple as
his action. Go ahead and roll either an athletics

or an acrobatics check.

TRAVIS: 12.

MATT: 12? All right. He kicks you up back onto
your feet, and as he does, he kip-ups onto his

feet, as well. Looks at you with a smile, wipes
the snot and blood from the front of his face,

licks it off his hand, and with that same hand he
rears back, almost like he's winding up for a

punch, and then just kicks you right in the center
of your stomach.

TRAVIS: I like the feint, I like the feint.

MATT: That's 22. Yeah, that'll hit. That is eight
points of damage.

ORION: He's fucking strong.

LAURA: You suck, Korn!

MATT: That ends his turn now, you're up, Grog.
You're both now standing face-to-face again, you're

reeling from the kick to the breadbasket.

TRAVIS: You hit me with the knuckle you fucking
licked. So I'd like to jump forward and throw my

knee forward and at the last minute pull it back
and throw my fist in a Superman punch.

MATT: All right, go ahead and roll.

TRAVIS: Yes, fuck you, 19.

MATT: 19 just barely hits.

TRAVIS: And I'll follow it over with a left-right.
(boom, boom)

MATT: Go for it.

SAM: Are you still raging?

TRAVIS: 21. Oh yeah, frenzied, so I get three. And
22.

MATT: All hit.

TRAVIS: Outstanding. Watch me roll a six.

SAM: (whispers) Should we do something?

LIAM: Have an ale. And collect the money.

SAM: I feel like we should do something.

TRAVIS: 16, total.

MATT: Nice. (whack, whack) You first jumped, hit
him in the face. As he stumbles backward, use the

inertia to slam him again with the same fist in
the face and then turn around with a full-on

haymaker to the side of the temple. (whack) As you
can see, there's a spray of blood and spittle

across the, you guys are starting to push towards
the back wall of the Crucible, and he actually

staggers back a little bit towards the wall from
the impact. (cackles) And he charges towards you,

putting his head right towards the stomach that he
kicked before, going for that same soft spot he's

opened for himself. That's going to be a 20. Yeah,
that hits. 21. And 21. Comes in, slams you into

the middle of your abdomen for seven damage.

SAM: Should I sing?

MATT: Eight damage. And then an additional seven.
So that'd be 15, 22 points of damage. As he slams

his head into your midsection, picks you up over
his head, slams you onto the ground, and as you're

on the ground, he runs up and soccer-ball kicks
you in the side of your ribs, just (whack). You

hear a crack as the impact hits and you can feel
that surging, shooting, burning pain begin to fill

the side of your torso. It's your go.

TRAVIS: What else do I have? What can I do?

LAURA: You can throw some dirt in his face!

SAM: From the stands, I turn to a portly gentleman
next to me and I say, sir, do you see what that

fucking little elf said about your mother? He
called her a name I can't even repeat.

I'm so sorry.

MATT: Go ahead and make a deception check.

LAURA: Was he pointing at you?

SAM: Yes.

LAURA: Oh god.

SAM: 18.

MATT: He looks down at you and looks over at the
elf and he says, "I'll deal with him after the

"fight. I've got too much money on this right
now."

LIAM: What an asp-hole.

TRAVIS: I roll up off of my side and I start to
go, oh, I don't know, it might be too much. And I

grab a handful of dirt and I throw it up into his
face.

MATT: All right. Riki-oh style. I like it. All
right. So. As you go ahead, go ahead and just roll

a basic attack.

TRAVIS: Fuck. Thank you, god. 26.

MATT: 26. Make a dexterity save on his end-- no,
that won't work. So you throw the dirt up. As he's

rushing towards you to follow up on the attack,
the dirt goes streaming into his eyes and for a

second he stumbles and starts trying to wipe his
face. As he does, he has the blood on his hands that's

also getting in his eyes, the blood's starting to
cake up a bit, and he's just reaching out in the

area. So that's your first attack.

TRAVIS: Because I feel like we have a kinship, I
take my foot and I throw it right up into his

grundle, just soccer-kick the shit out of his
nuts.

(laughter)

MATT: Go ahead and roll an attack. You have
advantage on this currently, because he can't see

it coming.

TRAVIS: That's even better! 25.

MATT: 25. Go ahead and roll damage.

TRAVIS: Oh no, I only have two, right? Ten.

LAURA: How was that ten, baby? That was 11. The
first one was a five.

TRAVIS: Halved. Six.

LAURA: That's 11.

TRAVIS: 11.

MATT: 11.

SAM: Baby!

MATT: If you're going to do grundle damage. So as
he's reeling and tries to reach out, swiping a

back-fist into open air, you rush up and (whack)
hit him with sheer force that you hear a unanimous

(groans) in the crowd all around echo down. His
knees immediately bend in towards each other, and

you can see the sound escape instinctively from
him, it's like, (wheezes). As you reel for your

second strike, which is going to be? What's the
second one you do?

TRAVIS: Well, did he drop to his knees?

MATT: No, he's still standing, but barely.

TRAVIS: Oh, really? Yeah, same place.

MATT: You pull back and (whack) a second time in
the same spot, this sending him onto the ground

from behind. He is currently prone. Okay, that's
rough.

TRAVIS: Literally trying to see him cough a
testicle.

(laughter)

MATT: Well, regardless of what happens, there's
going to be a search.

(laughter)

MATT: You're going to need a scouting party to
find where one of them went. So at the top of his

turn, gets up and wipes dirt crust from his eyes,
reeling from the impact. Uses half his movement to

get up and staggers toward you as you're just
welcoming it. Looks up at you for a second and

says, "You shouldn't have done that, tall guy." At
which point, he goes and lunges for your

midsection a second time. Misses with that strike,
as you dodge out of the way he spins around and

attempts to back-kick you to the torso. That will
hit. A 26. And that one is going to-- That's going

to be six points of damage to you from the
back-kick, and as his foot comes down, he's still

reaching for his groin from the sheer pain, he
just rushes forward and attempts to bite into your

shoulder. That's going to be a 20.

TRAVIS: He rolled a 20?

MATT: Not a natural 20. Just a total of 20. He's
rolled a lot of 20s. That's going to be seven

damage as he sinks his teeth into the side of your
shoulder and neck area. And tears a chunk of your

flesh out of the sides of his mouth, now, in the
muscle. So you reel back in pain and you're both

clutched in this gladiatorial grip. It's your go.

TRAVIS: Oh, amazing. Since we're clutched in that
grip, I'll grab him back and I'm going to try and

bite his nose off.

SAM: Wait, doesn't he have no nose?

TRAVIS: Oh, he's missing a hollow, right?

MATT: It's mashed in.

TRAVIS: How about I just aim for this area and if
I catch lip I'll take it as a victory.

MATT: Okay. Go ahead and roll.

TRAVIS: Yes! Okay, 21.

MATT: That hits.

TRAVIS: 20. And 24.

MATT: All hit. So as you reach forward, you use
the yell of pain to turn it into an attack, reach

forward and bite into the front of his face. You
don't get any nose, but you do catch the top of

his lip. As you pull back with a snapping sound,
part of his upper lip just comes off in your

mouth. How much damage does that do?

MARISHA: It's a souvenir.

TRAVIS: The first one is six.

MATT: Six damage. All right. What's your follow-up
attack?

TRAVIS: Would you say that he reaches back for his
face like that in pain?

MATT: Oh yeah, he rears up with his hand right
there and is like, (yelps).

TRAVIS: Fantastic. I'd like to just drive my fist
into his throat as his head's arched back.

MATT: All right, go ahead and roll damage on
that.

TRAVIS: Yes! Five.

MATT: Five, all right.

SAM: You know what I love about these fights?
They're beautiful. The beauty of the human body.

MATT: The blood's pouring down the front of his
face and his throat. You clip him right in the

center of his throat. You hear the coughing sound
as he, with his other hand, reaches up and grabs

his throat. You can now see his front teeth
visible through the lip that's no longer there.

And what's your third strike?

TRAVIS: Would you say that he bends forward, then,
because he's grabbing his throat like that?

MATT: He's tough. He's bending forward, but he's
not completely incapacitated. He's in pain.

TRAVIS: Right, I would say I go up next to him and
invoke a fabled hero that I heard about in the

woods named Macho Man Randy Savage, and I
double-tap my elbow and drive it down

on top of his head.

MATT: (laughs) All right. Go ahead and roll damage
on this one.

TRAVIS: Thank you. Six.

MATT: Six. So as you leap up, using the goliath
weight coming down, you double-tap the elbow and

you bring it down on top of his head. He, from the
sheer force of it (wham) slams down face-first

into the dirt, just like that. Onto the ground. As
he's getting up, he's looking kind of rough.

LIAM: I believe that's pronounced Ma-choman
Rand'Savage.

MATT: There you are. A gracious warrior of the
woods. While on the ground, he reaches forward and

attempts to sweep your legs out from under you. Go
ahead and make-- this would be an acrobatics-- no,

we'll make this a dexterity saving throw. Why
not?

TRAVIS: Ten.

MATT: Ten. (whoosh) Pulls your legs out from under
you, slams you onto your back. As he leaps up on

top of you immediately and with both of his fists
in the air slams them down towards your face.

That's going to be a 22.

TRAVIS: What?

MATT: 22 to hit. You take six points of damage.

TRAVIS: Oh, good. (laughs) I was thinking 22
points of damage!

MATT: And a 23 to hit, it's going to be an
additional eight points of damage. Just once down

on your face, and again with a second slam, right
down onto the front of the face again. You can

taste all the irony blood and liquid pouring
through your sinuses down into the back of your

throat as you're currently on the ground with him
on top of you. You're both looking pretty rough.

Where are you at, hit point-wise?

TRAVIS: I say, tastes like home. And I spit in his
face and reach up and

thunderclap both of his ears.

MATT: (laughs) All right, go ahead and roll for
attack.

TRAVIS: 24.

MATT: Hits.

TRAVIS: 17.

MATT: 17 does not hit.

TRAVIS: 22.

MATT: 22 does hit. So you reach up. Go ahead and
roll damage.

TRAVIS: Oh yeah, right.

MATT: (whack) Thunderclap to the side of both his
ears.

TRAVIS: Six.

MATT: Six points of damage. As he rears back and
instinctively his hands go up and try and grab at

your wrists, you pull the wrists back, and he's
holding you from that point. You attempt to go for

another strike, but he just redirects it with his
own arms. You manage to pull out of the grip with

a third strike. What are you doing for that one?

TRAVIS: He pulled away from my wrists, and I'll
give him a little of the same. Put my fists

together and just swing straight down into his
solar plexus since he's sitting on top of me.

MATT: Roll damage.

TRAVIS: That's a five.

MATT: Five. (wham) You hit and you hear the wind
out of him from the impact, (wheezes) and he's

trying to get the wind back.

TRAVIS: I can't hear you. What?

MATT: He pushes off of your chest to stand up for
a second and (gasps) gets one big inhale of air,

and as he does, he reaches up his leg and then
tries to curb-stomp kick you right in the stomach

while you're still on the ground. That will be
18.

TRAVIS: Misses!

MATT: All right. A 19.

TRAVIS: Misses!

MATT: And that will be a 24.

TRAVIS: You son of a bitch!

MATT: All right. So he goes to kick you once, and
you dodge out of the way. Kick a second time. This

time, you catch the foot and hold it in place. He
then lifts up with his other foot to a point where

now you're holding him in the air. As he puts all
of his weight in the air, he comes down and slams

his elbow right into the center of your chest, in
the way you did to his head earlier. That's going

to be for a total of eight points of damage.

TRAVIS: Okay.

LIAM: I take the flagon of ale that I've been
drinking all this time. I slam it down on the

ground and push my sister out of the way and yell
at the top of my lungs, Grog! Your father was an

undead piece of shit and your cousin's going to
make you his bitch!

TALIESIN: There's not enough popcorn in the world
for this.

LAURA: I know.

TRAVIS: (growls) I would like to reach forward
with both of my thumbs and shove them into his

fucking eye sockets.

MATT: Roll an attack.

TRAVIS: Fuck!

LAURA: Oh, no. You distracted him.

TRAVIS: 12. That's better. 22.

MATT: Okay, so as you reach up to try to get his
eyes, he grasps your hands and instead begins

pulling back on the wrists. You can feel the
tension of the bone beginning to bend from the

sheer strength and force of it. As you pull back
your arms, you attempt to headbutt him again and

he dodges his head out of the way, and he knows he
has you at an advantageous position. What do you

want the third attack to be?

TRAVIS: He's still on top of me, isn't he?

MATT: Yeah. Where are you at hit point-wise, by
the way?

TRAVIS: 18.

MATT: He's looking pretty rough, too. So what do
you want the third attack to be?

TRAVIS: Would you say he's on my chest?

MATT: He's currently on your chest and waist area
right now, like (grunts) holding you down.

TRAVIS: I was going to grapple him, but if he's on
my chest, I'll use my thighs to shove him up

towards the upper part of my body and I'll drive
down my elbow at the same time. Into that whole

bloody target area.

MATT: (laughs) Okay. As you shift upward, you
bring your elbow forward. Roll for attack.

SAM: No, he rolled three already.

MATT: Oh, that's right.

TRAVIS: I got at least a six.

MATT: So six damage? Okay, as you position him up,
(whack) the elbow hits, and you can feel it sink

in. What bones are there are mostly splintered and
broken, and you get a good inch into his face with

your elbow. As you pull back, he's looking really
rough, and one of his eyes is beginning to swell

entirely shut.

TRAVIS: We look like a Rocky movie right now.

MATT: Yeah. This is a full-on, drag-out fight.

TRAVIS: I must break you!

MATT: He angrily looks down at you, (snarls) and
he reaches both of his hands up again in a giant

hammer fashion. That's going to be a 17?

TRAVIS: Misses.

MATT: A 20.

TRAVIS: Hits.

MATT: And a 15.

TRAVIS: Misses!

MATT: So he brings it down. (wham) As it hits, you
manage to take the brunt of it in the shoulder.

The second hit comes down and slams you for eight
points of damage. (wham) This one, you can feel

the sternum crack. As he brings up his fists a
third time, attempting to end this, you use the

leverage you had when you pushed him up to
actually spring your entire body upward and force

him off you. He manages to get to his feet and you
just get up and you both are bleeding from all

over your faces with giant bruises, and both of
you are barely holding yourselves up, breathing

heavily. It's your go.

TRAVIS: I'm going to rush at him, spit on my
knuckles, swing back, and at the last second, take

my right foot and drive it right through his
kneecap.

MATT: Roll for attack.

TRAVIS: Fuck you! Yes! 24.

MATT: 24 hits.

TRAVIS: 22.

MATT: 22.

TRAVIS: 19?

MATT: 19 just barely hits.

(cheering)

MATT: All right, so as you run forward, bring the
leg up, (whack) you hit the side of the knee.

Roll damage.

SAM: Come on, roll good.

TRAVIS: Five. Six. Six.

MATT: All right, and what are the attacks you do?

TRAVIS: I want to drive my foot through his
kneecap.

MATT: It snaps. He's still standing on the other
leg, but the knee is cracked behind.

TRAVIS: Oh, that's amazing. I'll just put my foot
through his other knee.

MATT: As you jump off the other one, (whack) it
catches the knee. It doesn't snap, but you can see

there is a bend to it, and then he falls to the
ground, on both of his busted knees now, looking

up at you. And with the third strike, what are you
going to do?

TRAVIS: I would like to grab his head, since he's
probably kneeling on the ground at this point,

right? And say, there's only room for one to rage
in this pit. And I take it, and I just smash into

the top of his jaw, hopefully dislocating the
bloody, lipless face that I see.

MATT: Okay.

TRAVIS: Wait, is he an orc?

MATT: He's a half-orc.

TRAVIS: As a half-orc, does he got those big
teeth?

MATT: There are little tusks there, yeah.

TRAVIS: I'll grab onto those.

MATT: They're small to pull. You slam down on his
face. (crunch) You can see the jaw crack open. The

tongue instinctively moves around a little, but
the jaw is definitely broken from the impact.

SAM: It's like a dance! It's like a beautiful
dance.

MATT: You can see, that blow should have taken him
out, because there was nothing left.

TRAVIS: He's like the Black Knight in Monty
Python! He's got no knees!

MATT: His body goes limp for a brief second. You
can see the half-orc rage kicks in. That

half-orc's blood. You can see him now rally up for
one final round of vengeance against you, Grog.

Reaches up and grabs you by the throat and brings
you up to slam into his head. This is going to be

a 21. A 17.

SAM: Miss.

MATT: And a 22. So grabs you, slams into your head
with the first strike. That is going to be six

points of damage. (boom) Into the face. You can
feel like the shock, the white light in your eyes

as the impact smashes into you. He goes to do it a
second time. This time you instinctively reach

down with your hands and push his face away. You
can feel the fading just from the sheer impact as

he pushes you up onto your feet again and you step
back. And he takes a moment to look at you with

his missing lip, his bashed-in nose, eye swollen
shut, both knees messed up. (pants) "Respect." And

then he runs forward and with one heaping haymaker
just takes you in the face with a cracking sound

for six points of damage.

(groaning)

MATT: With a resounding crack Grog's head spins,
his body turning. He stumbles a couple of steps,

falls to one knee, face-down in the dirt,
unconscious. The whole crowd raises and cheers,

(cheering) as the mostly broken half-orc raises
one of its fists to the air, walks around, looks

over to your body, reaches into his pocket and
flicks a gold coin onto your back. Walks over to

the ladder and begins very painfully making his
way up to the edge of the Crucible.

LAURA: Yeah, he's only using his arms because he's
got no knees! Douche.

MATT: Getting up to the top, the crowd cheers. You
can now see one of the bookies reveals a holy

symbol, one that you recognize as the symbol of
Kord, and he goes down and immediately begins

administering, healing to our recently unconscious
Grog. You can see the other bookie, who is dressed

similarly in the purplish robes you saw before,
also begins to heal our good fighting half-orc

friend as he lumps over and takes his sack of
coins from him. The clerics of Kord are the ones

actually running this, it looks like. You come to
in the pit, Grog, beaten, wearied, and fatigued

because of your frenzied rage. However, you have
been defeated in the Crucible.

LAURA: That was painful.

MATT: That was so close.

SAM: I go down and nurse him, nurse his head, hold
him, and just tell him, Grog, you won!

You did it, buddy!

MATT: Make a deception roll.

SAM: 16.

MATT: I would say given the circumstances, it's
nice that he's trying, but it's been a while since

you've been bested in one-on-one combat, and a
part of you is deeply hurt by it. But at the same

time, there is that burning fire, that need to
come back and vengefully tear him down from his

precipice when you're ready.

TRAVIS: I say nothing.

ORION: It's okay, buddy. This isn't the first time
you've been knocked unconscious.

LAURA: It's too bad Pike didn't cast Death Ward on
him before she left, though.

That would've been great.

MARISHA: I go up and rub on him and (meows).

MATT: As you're being tended to by your party, the
same bookie that brought you in comes over and

taps you on the shoulder and says, "Not going to
lie, no one has taken a beating from the Hammer

"like that and brought him so close. I don't think
he's going to be able to take another round with

"you for at least a few days. But you're welcome to
fight in my ring any time you wish."

LAURA: We'll need to earn our money back.

MATT: "There is that, yes."

ORION: Or you could just give it to us.

TRAVIS: I walk away.

LAURA: Is there a whorehouse here in Vasselheim?

ORION: You're asking this question?

MATT: A curious laugh comes across the bookie's
face and he says,

"The third floor of the Bellows'--" 
What did I call it, again?

SAM: The Bellows' Respite.

MATT: The Bellows' Respite. Sorry, I was in the
moment. "The third floor of the Bellows' Respite

"does itself run as a brothel, if that's what
you're inquiring."

LAURA: That is what I was inquiring.

TALIESIN: Come on, Grog, we'll get you ice cream.

LAURA: We'll get you ice cream, Grog, and a whore.
How's that sound?

LIAM: Coldstone?

ORION: Grog, you can eat the ice cream from the
whore.

LAURA: Tiberius, really?

ORION: I'm trying to be creative here. Make him
feel good. Fireworks. Prestidigitation.

MATT: All right. Grog, as you make your way into
the tavern, there is, though in your solemn state

you can see a number of the patrons who were
watching from the inside who were part of the

crowd all give a round of applause to you as you
enter. The barkeep who turns to you, a human

fellow who's missing one eye, has a tufted, spotty
beard and happily extends a large tankard of ale

and says, "On the house for you, friend! You
fought well tonight."

TRAVIS: I like your beard.

LIAM: I take five of my remaining gold and slide
it over to that bartender and say, just keep it

coming. All night, please. Thanks.

MATT: "I'll deliver it to the room. By the way,
what room are you staying in?"

SAM: Do we have a room?

LAURA: We would love one of those.

LIAM: The third floor, I believe.

LAURA: For some of us, not all of us.

SAM: I don't think he's going to want to...
partake tonight.

LIAM: Might have problems.

SAM: Aw, he's chugging. He's sadness-chugging.

MATT: "The rest of you, how many rooms you taking?
Three amongst you?"

SAM: Three.

MATT: "Three rooms for the night."

SAM: Plus a stable for our bear.

LAURA: No. Our bear will stay in the room with us
girls.

TRAVIS: It looked like rain, right? I'll be out
there with the pigs.

LAURA: No, Grog.

SAM: No, it's okay, he needs to stew in this for a
while.

MATT: "Your room's on the house, friend. The rest
of you, that'll be six gold for the evening."

ORION: I'll stay in your room, Grog.

SAM: I don't think he wants company tonight.

ORION: No, he can sleep with the pigs. I'll stay
in the free room.

MATT: So that's six gold for them. All right, so
mark off your losses for the money

you put in for the pot.

TRAVIS: Where do I mark off my loss of pride?

MATT: That would be under additional notes.

SAM: I almost won.

TALIESIN: Damn it.

LAURA: Almost.

TRAVIS: What did he have, that orc piece of shit,
he had what that made him come back?

MATT: It's a half-orc racial ability that the
first time they're dropped to zero hit points,

they can instead choose to be at one hit point.
They can only do it once per day.

TRAVIS: He had one left?!

MATT: You brought him to negative five on that
final hit, but that half-orc racial ability...

TRAVIS: That's even worse!

LIAM: Grog, if it's any consolation--

TRAVIS: What's that mean?

TALIESIN: It's a grouping of stars in the sky.

LIAM: As I had no idea that weapons weren't
allowed in there, if you and I had fought, you

would've beaten me to a bloody paste.

TRAVIS: Oh, you weren't serious, were you? I
thought you were being funny.

(laughter)

TRAVIS: Oh.

SAM: There's a lot of injured pride tonight.

MARISHA: Guys, we've had a really emotional day.
Can we just sleep?

ORION: I found it to be very entertaining.

SAM: Hey, does anyone want to come to my room and
look through my shit to see how Pike's doing?

LAURA: Okay, yeah!

ORION: Let's look through your shit. Scanlan.

LIAM: Pike would have been proud of you, Grog.

TRAVIS: Thank you. And if there had been weapons
I'd be in deep shit. I'll be at the bar.

LAURA: Oh, Grog, come on.

SAM: That's not even chicken, that's just a piece
of wood.

(laughter)

MATT: And yet it doesn't stop him as he, bite by
bite, makes his way through the piece of driftwood

he found by the bar.

LIAM: I slap down another five gold to the
bartender and say, that's for that barstool.

MATT: "Thank you." Which, the barstools, by the
way, have a thick, crusty wool on them, so there's

a unique flavor to the piece you've chewed
through.

TRAVIS: The frying on this chicken is exquisite.

MATT: As you all take your evening of rest in your
respective groups, Grog, eating and drinking away

your worries until eventually you are unable to
make conversation, you sloppily make your way to

the third floor to a room in the brothel that has
been prepared and awaiting for you, paid for by

the Bellows' Respite, and you find yourself
sloppily disappointing a woman until you pass out

in your own sorrow.

(laughter)

MATT: And with that, we're going to take a quick
break, but we'll be back here in about ten

minutes, guys, right after Overlord has a few.

TRAVIS: Fuck!

LAURA: He's so upset. He's really upset.

MARISHA: I've never seen him this upset.

ORION: Yeah, isn't it weird when other people get
upset?

ZAC: He's definitely not a challenge for Overlord
status, that's for sure. Guys, so in case you're

wondering what all of this 5k hype is that you
keep seeing, if you're watching from home and you

tuned in after we started. Megiyama in the
chatroom has challenged you guys, the audience, if

we get up to 5,000 subscribers tonight, he will
buy a very large, and by very large I mean eight

feet tall. It is massive. He sent me a picture; it
is massive, I don't know where we will put it.

We'll figure it out somehow. He will buy that for
us and ship it to us, it's a very, very generous

thing to help get us to 5,000 subscribers, and I
was told from some people in the chat that I

should also contribute in some way, shape, or
form, so I have agreed to dress up as Pengulord

tomorrow all day if we reach this goal. And for
those who don't know, there was a very large war

this morning in team No Stream, the chatroom,
while we were offline. Someone thought it would be

funny to put my face on a penguin. I did not think
it was funny, and I timed out and banned every

single person that referenced it, and exalted all
of my power as Overlord, so it pains me to agree

to do this, very much so, because it completely
diminishes everything I've strived so hard for in

world domination. Penguins are the
least-threatening animals on the planet,

and I despise them.

MATT: Wow, that is an intensity. Pengulord, guys.

ZAC: Good for you guys.

MATT: Pengulord, I like the sound of that.

MARISHA: They like to snuggle.

ZAC: Well, good for them. No.

MATT: We could fit Pengulord on a license plate,
right?

ZAC: No. Too many letters.

TALIESIN: If we get you in this outfit, will you
waddle? That's really the question.

ZAC: I said 5,000 subs, not my dignity and
everything. I will put on the damn outfit at

5,000. That's all I have to offer. I'm already
still working on a damn music video, so all I have

left to offer is my dignity and every ounce of
pride I have in anything.

MATT: So if we somehow get to 5,000 subscribers,
we get an eight-foot Trinket and Pengulord gets to

rule the stream tomorrow. We'll be back in about
five, ten minutes, guys, please stick around, we

have more interesting things to see.

MARISHA: Oh wait, before we log off, we have this
ready to go. Follow our amazing artists. Also,

follow Espionage Cosmetics because they're amazing
supporters of the show. Tweet at them and be like,

thank you so much for supporting Critical Role.
Because they're awesome. Okay.

[dramatic music]

TRAVIS: Right, listen up! If you have ale, then
you have a friend in Grog Strongjaw. A goliath of

towering height and size, this barbarian has an
appetite for the two great loves in his life:

combat, women, and ale! (chuckle)

(record scratch) Wait.

Easily the brains of the group, Grog is often
consulted for his vast knowledge of shapes,

colors, and (chuckle) shiny things!

Also ale.

In his early years, armed with his two-handed
great axe, Grog often enjoyed proving his might

amongst the ranks of his family's wandering herd.
But after coming upon an unsuspecting elderly

gnome in the woods, he objected to the killing of
such an innocent life. A creature of impulse, Grog

felt only pity for this-- well, this terrified
little thing.

And his disobedience cost him dearly.

Beaten bloody and banished by the herd leader, his
uncle Kevdak, Grog was abandoned and left to die,

exiled from his herd. It was then that the
relative of the very gnome he fought to save,

saved him. It was the kindness of a gnome cleric
named Pike that healed Grog, bringing him back

from death's edge. And they have remained close
friends ever since.

Most nights, Grog can be found challenging entire
taverns to wrestling matches! Ha! Or accompanying

Scanlan to the nearest house where you pay for
lady favors.

Also ale!

MARISHA: A first impression of Keyleth would leave
you with little information on the half-elven

druid. You might even think that her social
awkwardness due to her sheltered upbringing is

kind of sweet. (chuckle)

Of course, it would be unwise to underestimate her
based on first impressions. (thunder) Under that

unintimidating petite frame is a vicious beast
waiting to be unleashed, whose natural powers have

made even the fiercest of champions pee their
pants, literally! (soft chuckle)

Born to the Air Tribe of the Ashari people,
Keyleth was raised with a deep love of nature and

the elemental magics. It is her people's inherent
duty to protect the delicate areas in Tal'Dorei

where the four elemental planes begin to bleed
with this realm.

Since she was a little girl, she had quite a knack
for air manipulation and beast shaping abilities.

Well, if you consider kittens and flying squirrels
to be little beasts. Which, I do. (clears throat)

Anyways, it wasn't long before the headmaster of
the tribe, her father, Korren, realized her true

prodigious abilities and she was inveterated to
succeed him as the next headmaster.

Just like that, her jovial childhood was stripped
and replaced with endless spell memorization,

teachings from ancient traditions, and exceedingly
high expectations. Every druid leader to be must

embark on a journey to seek out the sister tribes in
order to introduce and establish respect amongst

the fellow headmasters. They call this the
Aramente, or Noble Odyssey. When her father felt

she was ready, he set her on the path to truly
discovering herself, not knowing when, or if, she

will ever return.

As she hiked down the mountain towards Stillben,
she meditated on the task ahead. Part of the

Aramente is proving yourself a strong warrior, a
valiant protector, and a wise and compassionate

leader. With this knowledge, one thought plays on
repeat in her mind: Is she even worthy?

TALIESIN: Percy was the third of seven children,
born to a noble family who lived far to the north

in the ancient castle of Whitestone. With so many
siblings to share the burdens of lordship, Percy

turned his attentions to the sciences,
engineering, and naturalism.

One day, a mysterious couple named Lord and Lady
Briarwood came to court. During a feast held in

their honor, the Briarwoods violently took control
of the castle, killing or imprisoning everyone who

would stand in their way.

Percy awoke chained in the dungeon, only to be
freed by his younger sister. Together they fled,

chased by the Briarwoods' men. As they ran,
Percy's sister took several arrows to the chest

and fell. Percy kept running, eventually jumping
into a freezing river and floating unconscious to

freedom. He did not remember waking up on a
fishing boat. He barely remembered the next two

years, as he slowly made his way as far south as
possible.

Then one night, Percy had a dream. A roaring cloud
of smoke offered him vengeance against those who

destroyed his family. When he awoke, Percy began
to design his first gun. (gunshot)

ASHLEY: Pike grew up on the outskirts of town,
near the Bramblewood. Her ancestors were a family

of deep gnomes with quite an unfavorable
reputation. Thievery, destruction, and trickery

left them with the curse of the last name
Trickfoot. Sarenrae, the goddess of healing and

redemption, had other plans for Pike's
great-great-grandfather Wilhand, who left his

family at a young age after a dream: a dream that
changed the course of the Trickfoot family.

Wilhand devoted his life to Sarenrae and pledged
from then on that him and his family would live a

life of service and devotion.

As a child, Pike seemed to have an affinity to
heal. Whether it was animals, people, or even

flowers, she felt she had a purpose in making
things whole that had once been broken. She

studied and learned the ways to heal though divine
magic.

She lived a peaceful life, quiet and simple, until
one day, Wilhand was captured and almost killed by

a group of goliath barbarians. One of the goliaths
took a stand against the murder of the innocent

gnome and he himself was beaten, bloodied, and
left for dead, abandoned by his herd. Wilhand went

to Pike for help. She prayed and healed this
barbarian as best she could,

bringing him back to life.

When he awoke, she discovered his name was Grog
Strongjaw. After that, they were the best of friends,

a rather unlikely pair. Little did she know that
in a few years' time, Grog would soon return the

favor and bring her back from the clutches of
death. (roar, crunch)

After being killed in battle, Pike felt angry. She
wanted to be stronger so that it would never

happen again. She spent four months at sea
training with the men and women aboard a ship

called the Broken Howl.

Gripping her holy symbol in one hand and her
morningstar in the other, this time,

Pike is ready.

SAM: Oh, you haven't heard of Scanlan Shorthalt?
Well, gird your loins, ladies, because he has his

eye on you.

A talented musician, master of disguise, and
dashingly handsome in his own mind, Scanlan sings

songs almost as much as he sings his own praises.

Born a poor gnome, Scanlan used his endless charm
and soaring tenor voice to croon for coin and

support his single mother. One day he was
discovered by a half-orc promoter and joined Dr.

Dranzel's Spectacular Traveling Troupe, where he
learned the ways of the world and honed his skills

as a bard extraordinaire.

A loner much of his life, Scanlan has never quite
come to terms with the violent death of his mother

at the hands of a goblin invasion. While his years
on the road provided many, shall we say,

educational experiences with the opposite sex,
deep down, Scanlan yearns for the one thing he's

never known: the true love of a fellow gnome.

Still, Scanlan considers himself a lover first,
performer second, and fighter distant third. On

the battlefield, he'll support his allies, but
rarely draws blood, unless it's to

protect fellow gnome, Pike.

Count on Scanlan for a hearty laugh, a rollicking
song, and a twinkle in his eye that melts hearts

and makes the females swoon.

ORION: Greetings and salutations. I am Tiberius
Stormwind. I hail from a town called Ty'rex,

located in the heart of Draconia.

From a politically respected family, at the age of
15, I succeeded in passing the Sorcerer's Rite,

showing prodigy-like control of my magic. The
judges and the Draconian high council were amazed

at how powerful my spells were for how long I had
been training. At 20 years old, I was the youngest

appointed member of the magic guild in Draconian
history. For the next few years, I almost went mad

from the malaise of being a guild member, as it's
rather boring.

However, one day I happened upon a chamber, unused
for quite some time. In the room were stacks of

books and maps of the surrounding cities and areas
around the known world. For months, I would

frequent the chamber, and learned of artifacts
from legend.

After a long period of research, I made a list of
artifacts that caught my eye. I brought these

findings to the high council and was told that all
of the information in the chamber I had stumbled

upon was either believed to be fiction, or
unsolvable mysteries, and hence were lost forever.

I found those answers to be unacceptable.

A year later, I devised a ruse and managed to
convince the city council to lend support in me

leaving Draconia on a mission of peace and
diplomacy for the surrounding kingdoms, going from

town to town and making friends and allies, in and
for the name of Draconia. Being a red dragonborn,

I had quite the task on my hands in that respect,
but it was exactly what I needed so I could

explore the world and find these artifacts, as I
felt the truth was out there.

Some may describe me as buffoonish, but I say
poppycock to all that. I am much sharper than most

give me credit for. I just don't pay attention to
things sometimes. I've also been known to be

rather cunning, loyal, happy-go-lucky, and well,
dangerous. I can't help but show my true scales

every now and then. But overall, I think I'm quite
friendly for a dragonborn!

LIAM: Never entirely welcome in the company of
elves or men, Vax'ildan learned at a young age to

skip past formality, preferring instead to invite
himself in your door.

Along with twin sister Vex'ahlia, Vax was born by
a chance encounter between elven royalty and human

peasantry. Raised by their mother in their early
years, the twins were eventually sent off to their

father in the elven capital of Syngorn. But their
cool reception among the elves--

MATT: Welcome back, guys. All right, so we had a
little break here. Remember to follow our awesome

artists on the Twitter. So, let's go ahead and get
back to the game so we can-- we have a lot to do

tonight. All right. As morning comes to, the rest
of you wake up, the first thought, of course, being

the heartache for your friend Grog, who is not in
any of the rooms.

LAURA: The heartache for our lost money.

MATT: Yeah, more the money probably for Vex-- but
as you wake up, Grog is nowhere to be found in

your rooms, of course. He wandered off to
presumably the third floor.

TALIESIN: Is that a euphemism?

MATT: It can be.

MARISHA: I'm still in Minxie form. I slept in
Minxie form. I'm going to go look for him, see if

I can find him in any of the rooms on the third
floor.

MATT: Okay. A giant white saber-toothed tiger
wandering the interior does set off a few minds. I

mean, an armored bear being escorted is one thing,
but a lone saber-toothed tiger? As soon as you

make your way through the hallway, you can see one
of the patrons comes out of the room and goes,

(startled sound) and goes and pulls his blade out,
like, "Help! Help, there's a tiger!

"There's a tiger in the inn!"

MARISHA: Why does this always happen to me?

LIAM: Hearing yelling, I run up the stairs and
say, hey, has anyone seen a-- oh, there you are.

Come on, Snibbles, come on. We've got to go back
downstairs.

MATT: "Hey, keep that thing on a leash, sir."

LIAM: I'm really sorry.

MATT: "Liable to kill someone!"

LIAM: Chews through her rope all the time. Come
on, Snibbles.

MARISHA: I roll over on my back, and I'm like
those cats you see on YouTube who hate being on

leashes. Just dragging.

LIAM: I start going, on the tummy.

MATT: Goes back in his room and closes the door.

LAURA: I'm pretty sure you just groped her.

MATT: At about this time, you hear a heavy
footfall. A second heavy footfall. A third heavy

footfall. And from around the corner of the
staircase, descending from the third floor, you

see a very hungover and expressionless Grog
squinting and making his way down.

LIAM: Morning, big guy. Have fun last night?

MARISHA: God. You're not going to puke, are you?

MATT: You hear (meowing).

TRAVIS: I never puke.

LAURA: Do you need some breakfast or ale?

TRAVIS: What, food? I think I'm good.

LAURA: All right.

LIAM: I think you need an ale.

LAURA: Little hair of the dog? Yeah?

TRAVIS: Now that sounds like a plan.

LAURA: All right.

MATT: You guys head down. The rest of you manage
to eventually wake and make your way down to the

tavern, where Grog is already in the process of
consuming his liquid breakfast.

ORION: Hold on, I haven't come out of the room
yet, right?

MATT: Not until you want to.

ORION: So I do, I see Grog going there, drinking
his thing, I use my Mage Hand and I whack the ale

out of his hand.

MATT: Your tankard goes flying out of your hand,
on the ground, it spills across the front--

ORION: I make my way down to the thing and I tell
the bartender, give this warrior water. This might

be your problem, Grog. You lost for a reason, and
you're a warrior.

LIAM: Yes, but he's named after beer.

(laughter)

ORION: Yes, I know that, Vax. I'm just saying.

TALIESIN: And you are what you eat.

ORION: I cast Invisibility.

MATT: Okay. Tiberius vanishes. The barkeep hands
over a big mug of clear water

and sets it in front of Grog.

LAURA: Oh, this is the very special beer.

MATT: "It's the water that was requested by your
friend. Who disappeared."

TRAVIS: Water?

LAURA: It'll get you super drunk.

LIAM: Can you feel it? You can feel it, right? You
can totally feel it.

TRAVIS: It's pretty smooth.

(laughter)

TRAVIS: Keep it coming.

MATT: Meals are ordered, you guys are fed as per
your purchase of the evening's inn stay. Your

meal's still covered by the tavern. Eventually,
you find yourselves full and about, I'll say

roughly ten, 11 in the morning it would be.

MARISHA: I'm no longer Minxie to eat breakfast
with my friends.

MATT: Okay.

LAURA: Hi, good to see you, Keyleth.

LIAM: Are you a dwarf again?

MARISHA: No. I should to talk to more dwarves
before I try to... yeah.

TALIESIN: That was a little racist.

MARISHA: It was a little racist.

SAM: Remind me, what was on our plate? What's on
our plate?

LAURA: Well, we have multiple things we can be
doing. We can go meet Keyleth's druid family in

the mountains, right? Fire, brimstone, stuff like
that. We have a lot of money waiting for us.

TRAVIS: I think we have to go back on the airship
to go get it.

LAURA: In Kraghammer, yes, but there is 25,000
gold waiting for us, so that's always an option.

TRAVIS: The Braving Grounds, we could see if they
need any-- since we-- I lost us

a lot of (tearing up) money.

LAURA: Here, Grog. Have some clear beer.

TRAVIS: Some more? Okay. We can see if they need
anyone for hire, go and have a... (tearing up

again) being strong.

LIAM: I would feel it very hard to leave Pike
behind in the city. Are we really going to leave

and go to Kraghammer?

MARISHA: Well, we don't have to. I don't want to
go yet. We traveled several days here. While we're

in this side of the country, I should probably go,
you know. Do the things I was set out to do.

TRAVIS: Plus we have the poo cell phone.

LAURA: Good job, Scanlan.

SAM: It's more of a poo walkie-talkie.

LIAM: I don't know what either of those things
are.

SAM: Just know that there's poo involved.

LIAM: Does the poop talk like my earring? Because
that I understand.

LAURA: Yes, it's like a poop earring.

LIAM: It's like a poop earring. Why didn't you say
that in the first place? You talk through it? You

talk to poo?

SAM: You see through it.

MATT: Hashtag poop earring.

LAURA: So yes. There's multiple things.

SAM: Well, multiple things. There's just go back
to Kraghammer and get money, or go where Keyleth

wants to go.

LAURA: We can look for work here, we can go back
to Bahamut, see if they want--

TALIESIN: Keyleth's got family. We can visit her
family.

LAURA: That's what I'm talking about, yes. Fire,
brimstone, volcanoes. Druids.

TRAVIS: Keyleth, do you have an opinion?

MARISHA: I mean... I guess if you guys don't have
anything else to do, yeah.

LIAM: How far are they from here?

MARISHA: I'm not sure. We'd have to start asking
around. They're remote. We're secluded people.

LAURA: Secrety.

MARISHA: We're a little secrety, yeah, and we
haven't heard-- I just want to clarify, you know.

I haven't talked to them in a long time, so I hope
they're nice. And I'm sure they're--

LIAM: Family stuff can be tricky.

TALIESIN: It seems a shame to have a family and
not take advantage of it.

SAM: What's family for other to take advantage
of?

TRAVIS: To hit. To kiss.

LAURA: To kiss? You kiss your family?

TRAVIS: Yeah, I'm a goliath. What about it?

LAURA: There are things about goliaths I did not
want to know.

That water has a good effect on him.

LIAM: Do you feel drawn to your parents, though?
Do you want to go?

MARISHA: I have to go. I don't have a choice.

LIAM: Then we should go.

MARISHA: Okay. I just don't want to inconvenience
anybody.

LAURA: Inconvenience, schminconvenience.

SAM: Oh, is that Dwarvish?

LAURA: Yes. It's actually Underdark. I'm fluent.

MARISHA: Oh wait, that was Dwarvish?
Inconschmenience.

TALIESIN: Your accent's amazing.

MARISHA: I'm trying to work on learning more
Dwarvish. Okay.

TRAVIS: I have a question for you, Vax. The
Braving Grounds that are here, would it be to our

benefit to collect maybe some coin and practice
our (gets choked up) fighting before we go to the

maybe-friendly fire jugglers' village?

LIAM: You want to go back in there? It's awfully
fresh.

TRAVIS: Not the Crucible. Don't rub my face in it.
Not in the Crucible, to the Braving Grounds.

LIAM: The Braving Grounds. We were just in the
pub. I mean, that was just a backyard brawl,

basically. He's talking about going to the
temple.

TRAVIS: Was that the Crucible I was in?

MATT: The Crucible was the pit you were in. The
temple you were at is the Trial Forge. The whole

area you guys are in, this district of Vasselheim,
is known as the Braving Grounds.

LIAM: This is what I think, Grog. It's too fresh.
You need some time away from it. We should

absolutely come back and you should break that
guy's fucking face, no question.

TRAVIS: (choked up) I could've. Totally could've.

LIAM: You almost did.

LAURA: Yeah. Next time, bite his nose off right
away before it's concave.

TRAVIS: I saved it for too late. I did it too
late. But then in the balls...

LAURA: The balls-- good effort.

LIAM: We've come a very long way. Keyleth is near
her family.

She needs to see where that road lies.

TALIESIN: We should take care of each other.

LIAM: And once we do, we'll come back and fucking
kill that guy.

TRAVIS: And we can use weapons if they suck,
right?

LIAM: Yes.

LAURA: Speaking of weapons, aren't we in a perfect
weapons-buying district?

SAM: Is that true?

TRAVIS: Yes! Can we go find an armory or somewhere
that sells pointy things?

MATT: You can certainly try. Yeah. As a note, too,
as you're having this conversation, you reach into

your pocket, Grog. As you're feeling around in
your pocket, you realize that you saved in your

drunken state the upper lip. It's rubbery and dry,
but it's there.

TRAVIS: I tuck that inside of my belt-beard. Just
so it's nice there.

One little part of it just flapping out.

LAURA: What about your beard? Is he growing his
beard?

TRAVIS: Oh, it is a new day.

MATT: You get to go ahead and roll a percentage
dice.

TRAVIS: Nine, 90.

MATT: 99. No beard this morning. It goes the other
way.

TRAVIS: It goes the other way?!

MATT: Lower percentage.

TRAVIS: My life is shit! I can't do anything!

MATT: It's a rough day for Grog.

TRAVIS: I'm hanging myself. Where's the bridge?

SAM: There's no bridge here.

LAURA: Actually, I don't know about anybody else,
but I'm incredibly low on funds at the moment.

TALIESIN: Perhaps shopping is not the best path.

MARISHA: We did just do a lot of shopping.

SAM: Yeah, let's go adventuring.

TALIESIN: We haven't had an awkward parental
confrontation in what feels like months.

MARISHA: Okay. You guys, I'm so nervous.

TRAVIS: You really are?

MARISHA: Well, I mean, it's a big thing.

TRAVIS: Have you seen them, ever?

MARISHA: The first time I left home was when I met
up with you guys.

MATT: (impact) You guys suddenly hear this
slamming sound that echoes throughout the nearby

city. You hear this impact, like this distant
crashing of stone against stone. A few seconds

later, you hear this low (horn sound), this horn
that's just bellowing out, this deep echoing horn.

The rest of the tavern looks around, confused. A
couple of individuals step outside to look.

ORION: I'm at the dock, right?

MATT: You've been walking away for a while, and
you get about roughly ten minutes away before you

hear this impact and these horns going off in the
distance.

SAM: I turn to the barkeep and say, well, what was
that? Do you know? Have you heard that before?

What is that?

MATT: "It's the horn of the Trial. Means there's
some sort of attack."

SAM: Attack? Where? How do we know where?

MATT: "I don't know, but I'm getting ready." And
he starts going to the back room.

LAURA: Getting ready where? What are we doing?

ORION: I'm going to cast Fly on myself and see
what's going on.

MATT: Okay, so you become visible and begin
lifting up into the air--

ORION: No, I'm still invisible for a round.

MATT: Oh, because the-- okay. So you lift into the
air and then appear as the concentration spell

wears off. You got your crown. Looking over, you
can see immediately there appears to be some

commotion, like some dust has scattered up from
the forest on the far side of the Braving Grounds,

outside of the major wall of the city.

ORION: I'm going to do a (whoosh) to where they
are.

MATT: Okay, you start gliding over. As you guys
rush out, you can see now a bunch of the Bastions

that are set across the top of the wall are
gathering and loading in bolts, and you see two of

them fire. You hear this now guttural roaring
sound, but multiple ones, like a chorus of large

bestial screams echo and then (wham) a second
slamming sound of stone into stone, and you can

see at the very distant wall, right below where
those two Bastions would have fired those giant

dragon-headed bolt-throwers, both get thrown off
the top, falling a good 40 feet out of view beyond

the distant rooftops. You can see a small crack
beginning to form at the top of the wall. Two

other Bastions now begin to rush in and take the
place of those two bolt-throwers.

LIAM: I yank two daggers out, flip them, catch
them, and just start running.

LAURA: Can I grab the flying carpet out of the Bag
of Holding before you take off?

TRAVIS: Yeah.

MATT: Sure. You grab it. You guys start running.
You're gliding in.

SAM: I'm ambling behind them.

ORION: I'm going to where the attack is, not to
them.

TALIESIN: I'm going to hop on the carpet with
you.

MARISHA: I'm going.

LAURA: I swing down and pick up my brother.

TALIESIN: I'm hopping on, as well.

MATT: You hop on.

LIAM: Come along, Percival.

MATT: At which point, two more bolts are let
loose, and you hear the creature once again scream

(screech) in pain, and then the footfalls.

LIAM: We don't see them yet?

MATT: No, you just hear it. It's on the other side
of the wall. You see what looks like a toothy maw

streak across the top of the tower for a moment,
and then the tree line shift, and the footfalls

get quieter and quieter.

TRAVIS: Go ask one of the Bastion guys what it
was.

LAURA: Yeah, we fly up next to one of the shooter
guys and say, what was it? What is it?

MATT: Okay, you glide up to it, and as you look
down, you can see the two Bastions that fell.

They're currently being tended to. One of them
looks unconscious and rough from the impact of the

fall, the other one's walking with a limp, trying
to find its way back towards the interior of the

wall that leads up to the top of his post. The one
you come by has sweat beading down his face and

you see he's loaded another bolt and he's looking
out, wide-eyed, towards the forest. He goes,

"It came back."

LAURA: What came back?

MATT: "We've had this blasted thing seen on and
off again for the past few weeks. Maybe it's

"hungry or it's bored, but either way, this
multi-headed thing, this hydra-like creature keeps

"coming in and I don't know, I think it's testing
the wall."

LAURA: Like a raptor.

TRAVIS: They remember.

LAURA and LIAM: Clever girl.

(laughter)

SAM: Should we go kill it?

LIAM: I don't see it anymore. I think it's gone
back into the woods.

MATT: "It's fled. Got a few hits in, but it went
and... we can never seem to get enough to take it down."

LIAM: How frequently are these attacks coming?

SAM: Of course we can track it.

MATT: "I mean, you're welcome to try. It's only
been maybe two or three times this past week, but

"it's come once or twice a week for the past month,
hitting different areas of the city. Not just this

"beast, a few different ones, but mostly this
abomination. It's a nuisance more than anything,

"although it did get a good hit on the wall." And
he looks over and you can see there's a crack in

the stone. He looks nervously over it and, "I'll
get to fixing that right quick. It keeps slinking

"off back into the Vesper Timberlands. Kord help us
if there's more than one of these."

LAURA: Kord help us. Good old Kord. Okay.

TRAVIS: I grab my earring and I say, Tiberius,
where are you?

ORION: I'm flying around.

MATT: You just now glide over, seeing the flying
carpet towards the top of the wall.

ORION: I'm above you.

TRAVIS: Where?

ORION: Here!

MATT: He is visible, just gliding by. You guys
have run up to the edge of the wall. You're

beneath looking up at the flying carpet and
they're having this conversation at such a

distance where you can't really hear them talking.
Percy, Vex, and Vax, you're up on the flying

carpet currently, conversing with the Bastion.

LAURA: Can we float up a little bit and see if we
can see movement in the trees where it is?

MATT: You glance over and you can see the canopy
shifting slightly. It's about a quarter-mile off

and disappearing before it's eventually a little
bit out of sight. You figure a creature that large

can't be too difficult to track.

LAURA: Okay.

SAM: Go kill it?

LAURA: Well, here's the thing. I bring the carpet
back down and say, I see where it went, if you

guys want to fight it. What do you think?

ORION: I'd like to go get my money at Kraghammer.

SAM: I thought we'd decided to go to Keyleth's.

MATT: The individuals are now, they're
currently--

MARISHA: You left during the family meeting.

LIAM: That money's not going anywhere.

ORION: I suppose you're right.

LIAM: Let's help the city out, then we'll go on to
see Keyleth's parents.

SAM: Help the city out by going to track the hydra
first?

TRAVIS: I run back to the tavern real fast. People
have left, right?

MATT: Yeah, there are people outside looking at
what happened.

TRAVIS: Barkeep still there?

MATT: He's there, and he's currently putting on
armor by himself.

TRAVIS: It's okay, it left. Big crack in the wall.
Might think about leaving. Before you do, the

Siren. Where might I find her?

MATT: He thinks to himself, says, "She's a
slippery one. She only shows up when she wants to

"start a fight. I gather your best bet would be to
ask around. I hear she runs at times with the--

"what are they called? The Slayer's Take. The
Slayer's Take." As you guys are talking about

this, the Bastion that was talking to you guys is
now coming down the wall, and he's like, "Are you

"seriously thinking about going after that thing?"

SAM: Only if there's money involved.

MATT: "Oh, I can guarantee a beast of that size
and that much of a problem's got a hell of a price

"on its head."

LAURA and SAM: From who?

(laughter)

MATT: "I gather anyone you take it to at that
point. Probably take just one or more of its heads

"back, or some proof it's dead, and I'm sure there
will be a few people that will fight hand over

"fist to pay for that."

LIAM: We could easily get a head. Let's go right
now. Grog's doing something. Let's go.

SAM: Hey, Grog. Grog, come in. We're going to go
kill something. We need you.

LIAM: How? We're on the carpet, he's flying.
Scanlan's riding on an eagle.

MARISHA: I can try a Locate Creature spell.

TALIESIN: You can do a what?

MARISHA: I can cast Locate Creature.

TALIESIN: She can cast Locate Creature.

SAM: Let's leave Trinket behind. Just for now,
it's so hard to keep track of Trinket, Jesus.

LIAM: Grog's been fighting for a long time, he
needs rest. Let's go!

MATT: Trinket is there behind you.

LAURA: Polymorph him, please.

MARISHA: I didn't learn Polymorph. You're going to
have to ask Scanlan about that one.

LAURA: Scanlan, please. Polymorph him.

SAM: What, me? Do I know Polymorph?

LIAM: Whatever that thing is, it's getting away.
We're losing time.

LAURA: We can track him. I'm a ranger.

MARISHA: I drop to my knees and I cast Locate
Creature.

TRAVIS: I can only come if Tiberius lets me.

SAM: Oh, to fly.

LIAM: Yes, exactly. Let's keep twiddling our
thumbs.

ORION: I'm going to cast Fly out of my ring on
Grog.

MATT: All right. Grog.

SAM: I guess we're going. Hold on!

MARISHA: Do you want to use your ranger tracking
skills, or should I try and cast the spell?

LAURA: I can definitely use my ranger skills.

ORION: I'm going to cast it at 5th level, and I'm
going to cast it on myself, I'll keep it on him,

Grog, and Trinket.

MATT: Okay. So Trinket once again-- (distressed
bear noises)

ORION: Like last time, remember, Trinket?

MATT: Trinket seems to be a little less perturbed
by the circumstance.

TRAVIS: I grab Trinket's paw like in Superman 1,
and we fly.

MATT: Grog and Trinket, coasting through the air,
arm in paw.

TRAVIS: Thank you, Tiberius.

LIAM: Peter Pan and Wendy.

TALIESIN: Can you read my mind?

MATT: All right. So as you guys all drift up over
the town, you can immediately see the Bastion that

was talking to you is looking very, very curiously
at Tiberius.

LAURA: Oh, don't worry, he's really nice!

SAM: Sorry, there was just a little magic so we
could go kill the hydra, sorry...

(laughter)

MATT: As you guys vanish over the wall, you can
now see before you

the entirety of the Vesper Timberlands.

LIAM: Most people just say thank you! Dick.

MATT: Below you, the landscape is entirely
consumed by what looks like the densest forest

you've ever encountered. The cold air seems to be
growing colder as the day progresses on and the

clouds themselves are choked dark grey. The rain
never fell last night, but the storms seem, or at

least the storm front that seems to push its 
way is still ominously looking overhead the

entirety of this landscape. Looking down across
the Vesper Timberland, you can see the thick

canopy, the occasional mountain or hill that's
jutting through the top of it, but there is no

movement. There is no current sign of the
creature.

TRAVIS: Let's use some bait.

SAM: Wait no, we saw the direction it went in,
right?

LAURA: Yeah.

LIAM: Don't worry, my sister's a ranger. She can
track anything.

LAURA: Why are you being an asshole to me today?

LIAM: I don't know, why am I?

LAURA: I don't know!

(laughter)

LAURA: I judged him, apparently, but I don't
remember doing it.

LIAM: The Critters will figure it out.

LAURA: Yeah, can I go low to the ground and track
it?

MATT: You can. So you take the carpet down, and as
it hits the canopy, it's a very slow, arduous

process to weave between the thick network of
branches and vines and other bits of growth that

have completely covered the top of this forest.
Eventually, the carpet comes down into the floor.

The rest of you guys who are flying coming along,
as well?

SAM: I'm coming along.

MATT: You all come down behind the carpet,
eventually breaking through the top of the canopy

and reaching the interior of the Vesper Timberland
itself.

LAURA: This is my other favored terrain.

MATT: Good to know. This forest, incredibly lush,
presses up against the city walls itself, nearly

oppressively with the impact. It grows up right
against the city wall. And it's almost like the

wall itself is constantly keeping it at bay in the
way that the growth that's pushing inward. The

tree trunks you see, now that you've hit the
interior, vary in size, some only a few feet in

diameter. You come across a couple that are 20, 30
feet or more, giant trees. Also, even though it's

midday at this point in time, the light into the
forest is choked so thin it's almost like it's

dusk, near dark, inside the forest. The air hits
you with the smell of wet earth, moss. Vines and

branches dangle from and reach from every
direction, and you can see there are, you can walk

through the path here, but nearing trees
themselves, the roots are so large and so twisted

where they enter the ground. You're definitely
going to have to keep up

with your ranger friend here.

LIAM: Just like the old days.

ORION: Now we've touched down and we're
traveling?

MATT: You guys are in the forest pushing through
various walkways. Go ahead and make a survival

check with advantage.

SAM: Survival check? Is that for her?

MATT: Yep. She's tracking the creature.

LAURA: Oh, natural 20!

(cheering)

MATT: All right. Following its path, you see that
there are tracks going both ways, meaning the

creature as it came through towards the city, it
turned its path about and then exited the same

pathway. So as you're following it along for a
good 15 minutes or so, you come across a small

opening in the forest where you can see what looks
to be a very messily

partially devoured carcass of something.

LAURA: Is it big?

MATT: It looks like it was pretty big, it's
definitely spread out over this area.

LAURA: I think it ate something here, you guys.

SAM: Good ranging.

LAURA: Thank you.

TALIESIN: I'd like to try and identify the animal
that it ate.

MATT: Make an investigation check.

TALIESIN: 13?

MATT: 13? You look at it, it appears to be some
sort of furred beast. Huge in size at one point,

it is long-dead for at least--

TALIESIN: Like moose-big or bigger?

MATT: No, as big as some of the umber hulks you've
fought. But it looks humanoid-ish, more

primate-like. The more you look at it, it looks
like it may have been at one point a large,

massive ape of some kind. But it has been torn
open, limbs scattered all across this small

clearing. You can see there are a series of bite
and scratch marks across it, and most of its

internal organs are missing.

TALIESIN: I don't know what we're tracking, but I
think it's friendly.

MARISHA: Can I do a nature check to see if I can
figure anything

out about the nature of the attack?

MATT: Sure.

MARISHA: That's going to be 21.

MATT: 21. As you look down at it and you take
close inspection on the attack, you look, a

creature like this, when it destroys and bites,
especially the creature that you saw earlier

briefly, it appeared through the canopy when you
first arrived. Many heads, gnashing teeth. The

bite marks and the attack on this carcass are
definitely in line with that creature. However,

you do notice that there are other marks and
attacks across it, as well. Some of the wounds

across its body appear to be made by weapons.
There are gash marks and slashes. And the more and

more you inspect the body, you can see the blood
that has been scattered about by this was thick

and congealed by the time that it was tossed
amongst this opening.

MARISHA: Does it look like the wounds from the
weapons happened post-mortem?

Or at the same time?

MATT: Actually, the wounds from the weapons appear
to have occurred fresh, whereas the wounds from

being killed and eaten, or being eaten by the
creature,

appear to be post-mortem by quite some time.

LIAM: So it was killed by civilized folks and then
torn apart by this thing.

TRAVIS: Maybe the Slayer's Take.

MARISHA: Can I figure out what kind, was it some
bird creature? Is all Percy could--

MATT: Ape creature. It's essentially a massive,
for lack of a better term, a dire-sized ape.

TALIESIN: Dire-ape. It's possible somebody was
feeding it.

LAURA: Should we continue on, keep tracking?

LIAM: My sister and I are going to check and see
if there's any sign of it in the area.

LAURA: Yeah, perception check around. Oh, that
looks good.

LIAM: Yes, it was. 21 for me.

LAURA: Yeah, only 18 for me. But wait, advantage.
That's way better! 25.

MATT: 25. Looking ahead, this carcass was eaten
before the creature attacked the city. You can see

from the time difference that this happened. But
it has torn through this space recently. You can

see part of the body has been shoved aside and
crushed under some giant clawed foot. It continues

weaving between the trees in this small pathway
that looks well-worn, like there are some portions

of the forest that are well-overgrown and mostly
untouched. There is a specific path along the

floor of this forest that looks like it's been
used often by large footsteps and small ones.

LAURA: Should we follow along that path? But maybe
off to the side a bit, like in the trees but next

to the path?

SAM: No, let's just go down the middle. What, did
it leave traps? It's a hydra.

LIAM: I'll go down in the bushes, thanks.

ORION: Is it like a thicket? Is this rough terrain
we're going through?

MATT: There are many portions of this that come
across as rough terrain. At certain times it's

okay, especially on the worn path, any off that
can be a little more difficult to traverse.

ORION: Is it plant life?

MATT: Plant life, tree roots, heavy thick branches
that have fallen or have grown out and interwoven.

Occasional rocks or natural formations that are
jutting out of the earth.

SAM: Let's continue on as fast as possible.

MATT: Make another tracking check, with
advantage.

LAURA: Oh man, another one?

MATT: (singing) Advantage.

LAURA: 16.

SAM: I'm going to inspire her with a little song
of inspiration. (singing) And the ranger's going

to range, range, range, range, range. And the
tracker's going to track, track, track, track,

track. I'm just going to watch, watch, watch,
watch, watch. Watch her range.

ALL: (singing) Watch her range.

LAURA: What do I need to add?

MATT: A d10.

LAURA: Okay, so 19.

SAM: Oh good. Three points.

MATT: All right. You continue moving forward off
the track for another ten minutes or so before you

see some movement ahead.

LAURA: Perception?

MATT: Perception check.

TALIESIN: I'll join in that. 21.

TRAVIS: 12.

LAURA: 18.

ORION: How far away are we from each other?

MATT: You guys are keeping a pretty close view,
you're a little behind them, but you're letting

them push forward unless you choose to do anything
otherwise.

LIAM: I'm going stealth.

MATT: All right. Make a stealth check. You and
Percy go ahead and you look forward, and you

notice there are a couple small pools of water
that have just coalesced through the recent storms

or just a natural small pool of water that exists
in this portion, but you can see the back of a

large, scaled creature with a tan dark-brown hide,
long tail, currently stooped down and drinking

from the waters in the pool. You can hear the
distant (lapping) sound of water dripping out of

its jaws, and you can see now, there are multiple
heads taking drinks out of this pool here.

SAM: Is the foliage around us green? Brown?
Standard foliage color?

MATT: In this area, because of the nature of the
rich earth,

most of the foliage here is a deep green.

SAM: I'm going to turn us all deep green. With
Seeming.

LIAM: With what now?

SAM: Seeming. Yes with Seeming. I spread my
Seeming all over us, turning us green. With

Seeming all over us.

TALIESIN: There's nothing you can't ruin.

MATT: As the hue of your garments begin to shift
to the color of the surrounding forest, I'd like

everybody to make a stealth check who hasn't
already, with advantage.

LIAM: Oh, 30.

ORION: I cast Stoneskin right now.

SAM: We're rolling for stealth? With advantage?

LAURA: Natural 20!

TALIESIN: 15.

SAM: 16.

MARISHA: 25 total.

MATT: These are trees. There, looming at the edge
of the water--

LAURA: Whoa. Is that a dragon?

MATT: That is a massive hydra.

LAURA: So it's not technically in the dragon
school?

MATT: No. It is considered a monstrosity,
technically. You guys are all hidden

off to the side here.

LIAM: I'm scooting forward quietly.

TALIESIN: Hail, hydra.

MARISHA: Where do you hail from, hydra?

MATT: All right, we'll put that as your guys'
current placement. Stealth scores are?

LIAM: 30.

SAM: 16.

ORION: 18.

MARISHA: 25.

TALIESIN: 15.

TRAVIS: 15.

LAURA: It was a natural 20. Do I add anything?

MATT: No, you don't have to worry about that.

SAM: So we're all good.

MATT: Okay. The creature keeps drinking.
Occasionally, a head will come up and look around.

Another head will come up and snap at it, and snap
back, and then both go down and they start

drinking on their own. You apparently are not
currently noticed.

LAURA: Should I have rolled for Trinket?

MATT: Go ahead and roll for Trinket.

LAURA: I rolled an 18 for Trinket.

MATT: Okay, Trinket's fine. Trinket with his deep
green fur, at the moment.

So what would you like to do?

LIAM: I'm pulling out my Dagger of Venom.

TRAVIS: Set a really good trap. Let's think about
this.

MARISHA: I can box him in with my Wall of Stone.

LAURA: I can cast the spike-growth thing again.

SAM: Should we try to push him in the water?

TRAVIS: We could lightning the water.

LAURA: In the water, then lightning the water?
That's good.

ORION: I have all kinds of things.

TRAVIS: Suggestions?

LIAM: If you box it in, we can't get inside.

ORION: If we can nudge it into where he's
drinking, then box him in.

LAURA: Drown him?

TRAVIS: Or lightning the water?

LAURA: Yeah. Box him in the water and then
lightning the water.

TRAVIS: Keyleth, you're up.

LIAM: Keyleth, when you shape the stone, can you
make it lean towards him in a ramp? I can run up.

It would still box him in. I could just traverse
it.

MARISHA: Yeah, I see what you're saying. I'm going
to pyramid him in, essentially. I'm going to try

and make almost behind him is an auditorium and
the front of him is a jabby ramp.

Does that make sense? Auditorium?

SAM: Let's do this.

MATT: Okay. The wall of stone has to be connected
to itself, so it would have to be like--

MARISHA: Okay, I'll do a spiral. Like a spiraly
ramp that traps him in.

TALIESIN: We're going to take the carpet and make
our way to the other pond.

LAURA: Do you want to go from either side? You
take the carpet, go to the other side, and I'll

walk over with Trinket to the other. What is he
looking for?

MATT: Our carpet got moved. We have flying carpets
from fans here I want to use, but it got moved.

MARISHA: Are they in our magic box?

MATT: We'll find them. We've got carpets from you
guys to use. We'll get that in just a second. It's

fine. We've got to move. So Percy?

TALIESIN: I have the carpet, I'm going to head
towards that small--

MATT: You have the laser pointer. Show me.

TALIESIN: What is that?

MATT: That is a rock.

TALIESIN: I'm going to move just to the other side
of that.

MATT: Okay, you coast through here, unseen.

LAURA: I'm going to do the same to the other side,
actually.

MATT: Around and behind to this side, here?

LAURA: Would I be able to shoot him from behind
the one further back?

MATT: From here, right now? No.

LAURA: Well then I'll go behind the big tree.
There, yeah. Totally hidden!

MATT: Yes. Anyone else, placement?

SAM: I'm going to move closer.

MATT: Okay. Right there.

MARISHA: Hey, Matt? Instead of Wall of Stone, I'm
actually going to cast my one 6th-level spell,

which is Move Earth.

MATT: Have you read Move Earth?

MARISHA: Yeah. A few weeks ago.

MATT: You can move large chunks of earth over a
small period of time. It's not an attack spell,

it's more of you can dig a cave.

MARISHA: Never mind. I'll stick with the original
plan. I can't dome him up and go ahead and push

him in the water really quick at this point?

MATT: Probably not with that one.

MARISHA: All right, I'll stick with Wall of Stone,
which I know I can do. Make a hydra pyramid!

LIAM: I rolled a 30. I want to get down in a
crouch and just run right there.

MATT: Okay. Keyleth, where are you going? To have
line of sight on the creature,

where are you going?

MARISHA: Right there is fine.

MATT: You don't have line of sight on the
creature. There's a tree blocking.

MARISHA: Oh. No, let me move towards Scanlan.

MATT: All right, so over here?

MARISHA: Yep.

ORION: I'd like to do an investigation on his-- oh
yes! I rolled a 21.

MATT: What are you trying to do?

ORION: Guess how much he weighs.

MATT: A creature of this size, probably close to
two tons. More than three tons, maybe?

5,000 pounds.

ORION: Damn it. Too big.

MATT: It's a big creature. Grog, where are you
going?

TRAVIS: I'm going to post up on, where's my laser
pointer?

SAM: In your eye! God, you're having the worst day!

LIAM: Just headbutt a tree or something.

MATT: Tiberius, you're staying right there?

ORION: Keeping within 100 feet of it.

MATT: Okay, that's well within a hundred feet.

ORION: Well, Vax can move. Is that my best POV?

MATT: To see it, yeah. Otherwise, you would be
blocked.

ORION: Okay.

MATT: All right.

ORION: Actually, we can move anywhere right now,
right?

MATT: All right, is everyone set? Who's taking
first initiative on this?

MARISHA: I am.

LAURA: Can you move Trinket next to Grog?

MATT: Trinket moves around next to Grog.

MARISHA: Okay, I want to try and do a little
pushy-shovery at the same time.

MATT: All right. There you are.

LAURA: There we go, look at us all. Strategized.

SAM: Yeah, that's going to come in handy when he
just kills all of us in one shot.

MARISHA: Okay. As he gets in that corner of that
puddle, I'm going to Fibonacci circle and starting

here, push him in a bit and wrap him up.

MATT: Okay, so you create from the earth a wall of
stone that comes jutting out. That way?

MARISHA: Yeah, I want him to be tight in the
circle here, and if I can get it to push him

towards the water.

MATT: The force of the wall of stone slams into
him and through the physical form, it's not enough

to actually move a creature of its size and
weight, but it does form around it and hold it in

place, currently.

LIAM: As soon as Vax sees that, he starts running
through the grass, up the slope of the stone.

MATT: It's currently surrounded by a ramp of
stone. The heads start reaching out and biting at

the stone.

ORION: You're running up the stone?

LIAM: Yeah, and I'm clicking one boot against the
other as I run up it, so I'm going faster, run up,

and I'm going to jump and I'm going to start
stabbing into that head.

MATT: All righty. Go for it.

LIAM: Okay, 17. Shit. And 27.

MATT: Second one hits.

LIAM: The final one hits?

MATT: Oh sorry, the first one was?

LIAM: 17. One.

MATT: One misses, the final one hits, yes.

LIAM: Okay. So does this count as sneak attack?
All right, so I roll a nine for damage, plus

eight, 12, 14, 15, 17 of sneak attack damage, with
the first attack, that's poison.

And the poison is DC 15.

MATT: DC 15. Misses. Does not make its save.

LIAM: With 11 points of poison damage to its head.
That's just the first attack that hits. And then I

take my keen dagger and I jab for the eye, and
that is a ten of damage.

MATT: Nice. It is considered a sneak attack
because this is a surprise round.

LIAM: Both attacks?

MATT: The first attack that hits is considered a
sneak attack.

LIAM: First attack I gave you was sneak attack.

MATT: No, I mean the first attack that hits it.
You missed, missed, and then you hit.

LIAM: Oh, I thought I hit and missed and hit.

MATT: Missed, missed, and hit.

LIAM: All right, well then erase the first numbers
I told you. It's just ten plus--

it was 17, so 27.

MATT: All right. 27 damage. You leap, run up the
stonework, click the heels, rush down and then

slam, and the dagger slips into the front of its
torso, the actual blade pulsing as the magical

energy expels itself, the poison rocketing through
its body. All of a sudden, the heads turn around

and now you have five heads looking at you.

LIAM: Add 15 of poison to that. Add 15 of poison.

MATT: Awesome. Is he poisoned? Or just takes 15
additional points of damage?

LIAM: It gets poisoned, and it takes damage on the
first hit and every round

I think it takes that poison.

MATT: No, it just means it's poisoned, which means
it has disadvantage.

LIAM: Oh, yes. DC 15, plus damage on the hit.

MATT: There's the flying carpet.

(cheering)

ORION: Is any part of the creature still in the
water?

MATT: One of its feet is currently off to the side
in the water.

ORION: Cool. I'm going to cast Invisibility. And I
can see it, because I'm on the other side of the

ramp, right? I'm going to cast Chain Lightning
right at the foot.

SAM: Chain Lightning? You have Chain Lightning?

MARISHA: It's new.

ORION: Yes, it is. It's a 150 foot range, and I do
10d8 damage.

SAM: I know, I used it at the fight that you
didn't want to fight in.

MATT: Yeah, what's the DC?

ORION: 17.

MATT: 17. All right, it does make its save, so
half damage.

ORION: How do I count these? There's a bunch of
sevens. Stupid ones.

SAM: 28.

ORION: All together?

SAM: No, that's 28.

ORION: Oh. 38. 43.

MATT: 43. Awesome. So a total of 22 points of
damage from a save. So as it's stepping into the

water, it takes an additional, I'll say,
additional 2d8 from being in the water. I'll roll

them here. Additional nine damage to that. As it
pulls back, the stone around it, the rogue leaps

up and slams it with a blade, its heads turn
around, and as it does, you turn around, vanish

from sight, and then... you cast Greater
Invisibility or just Invisibility?

ORION: Greater.

MATT: Okay. Release your hands and a torrent of
blue electrical energy rockets forth from your

hands, streaking out, some parts leaving arcs that
hit the nearby forests and then slamming into its

body, its exposed heads. You can see the arcs now
shooting through between the various necks and

bodies. It writhes and streaks about, slamming its
body into part of the stone that cracks and heaves

from the impact, still holding it in place. Well
done. You want to move, or is that your turn?

ORION: I'm going, what are the big lumps, are
those trees?

MATT: These are trees. Anywhere walking on the
trunk around it is difficult terrain,

you cannot pass.

ORION: I'm just going to go right behind that
tree.

MATT: All right. That ends your turn. Who else
wants to do anything this round?

LAURA: I want to shoot him.

MATT: You all get a free round, and then we roll
initiative.

LAURA: Okay, I'm going to cast Hunter's Mark on
it.

MATT: Hunter's Mark on it.

LIAM: Oh, I'm sorry, DM? This is after the fact.
Assassinate, on any attack before the enemy's had

a chance to take a turn yet, any hit on surprise
is a crit.

MATT: Good to know, so that's 54 damage from your
initial strike.

LIAM: Thank you. That's all I get. That's all I
do.

LAURA: So I'm going to cast Hail of Thorns at 3rd
level. I'm going to roll for that. Jesus. That's

only 16. That doesn't hit, does it?

MATT: For Hail of Thorns? 16 does not hit,
unfortunately.

MARISHA: Even though he's trapped?

MATT: No, it's against the armor. It actually
ricochets off the hide of the creature and

disappears. It explodes against a tree trunk in
the distance, and you can see a smattering of

magical thorns shoot out into one of the
canopies.

LAURA: Okay. Then I'm going to try just doing a
regular attack through the magical bow of fire.

And that is 17.

MATT: Hail of Thorns is an action to cast, though,
isn't it? You've already used your bonus action to

cast Hunter's Mark.

LAURA: Then never mind, I don't do anything. I
just fucking fucked that up.

MATT: It's okay, it's a surprise round. Do you
want to do anything with

your self-placement or Trinket-wise?

LAURA: Yeah, I want to climb a tree that I'm next
to.

MATT: Okay. Using your movement. Go ahead and
make, we'll say an

athletics check to climb the tree.

LAURA: What was that, athletics or acrobatics?

MATT: Athletics.

LAURA: Why?

MATT: Because there's no branches nearby, you have
to--

LAURA: Six! I'm going to stay on the ground.

MATT: You slide back to the trunk, turn around and
grab your bow and prepare yourself.

Trinket, anything?

LAURA: Trinket's going to stay right there.

SAM: I'll move and do Lightning. Why not? Just try
to get as much as possible. Just so I won't hit

whoever that is.

MATT: That would probably be right there. All
right, so you unleash a Lightning Bolt?

SAM: Yes, I do.

MATT: Go ahead and roll damage, 8d6. Does not make
its save. Rolled a five.

LIAM: By the way, we need seven more subs, which
is ironically the same

number of heads the hydra has.

TALIESIN, MARISHA, and ORION: Seven more subs?

MATT: Seven more subs?

TALIESIN: We're going to get a bear!

SAM: 19.

MATT: 19?

SAM: 19.

MATT: All right, gotcha. That was the total 8d6?

SAM: That was 6d6.

MATT: 8d6 for Lightning Bolt. Roll two more.

SAM: Ten more!

MATT: All right, 29. You turn around the corner,
the energy still crackling around it from the

Chain Lightning. You unleash your own Lightning
Bolt that hits it from the side, slamming into the

side of one of the heads. The head actually pops
from the impact. It's now got four heads.

SAM: Oh, hey. I got a head!

TALIESIN: What's my distance? Is this Pepperbox
distance or Bad News distance, at the moment?

MATT: Right now, you can't see because there's a
tree in the way, but you're Pepperbox distance

from here. You could try Bad News, but you'd have
to set up in place.

TALIESIN: All right, I'm going to start curling
around the tree I'm near. I'm going to take some

movement to fly over the pond back here. And while
I'm making my little round, I'm going to take two

shots with the Pepperbox.

MATT: Okay, so as the carpet's gliding past,
you're basically strafing it and (gunshots). Go

ahead and fire.

LIAM: You have a bear.

MARISHA: She has a bear? We got a bear!

MATT: Oh my god, there's going to be a giant
Trinket. That's so stupid.

TALIESIN: Full-on misfire. (cackles) Yeah, I
misfire. I don't care; we got a bear.

MATT: All right. We got a bear. As you strafe past, you
pull your Pepperbox and go to fire. Suddenly

there's a dull sound, and as you look at your gun,
it explodes for a second in your face. You barely

manage to get your visage out of the way as the
barrel itself is heated up and you have to shake

it off. Yeah, your Pepperbox is looking a bit
rough right now.

TALIESIN: It's fine; I'm putting it away.

MATT: Okay. So everyone else has gone but Grog.

TRAVIS: Me? Can I run all the way up and try and
pull a Vax, like he did?

MATT: Yeah.

TRAVIS: Hey, I want to try that! And I rage as I
attack it!

MATT: All right, as you rush up, axe in your hand,
you rush up the side of the stone ramp that she's

created and it's right in slamming distance. Go
ahead.

TRAVIS: I swing away. 24.

MATT: 24 hits.

TRAVIS: Yes, and the second. 16.

MATT: 16, no. 16 misses. And then?

TRAVIS: That's it, just the two. I'm not frenzied.
Yes. 17.

MATT: 17 points of damage as you hack once again,
slamming into the side of one of the necks,

causing a gout of purplish blood to spray over the
right side of your body. That ends the combat

round for the surprise round. The creature is now
aware that you're definitely there. Everyone roll

initiative. All right, so 25 to 20?

ORION: 22.

MATT: 20 to 15?

LAURA: 19.

SAM: 16. First good roll I've ever had.

MATT: For initiative, yeah. 15 to ten?

TALIESIN: 13.

TRAVIS: 13.

MATT: Both of you guys 13. All right.

MARISHA: Four.

LIAM: 12.

ORION: That's what you usually get.

TALIESIN: You got a four?

MARISHA: Yeah, I did.

MATT: All right. Top of the round, Tiberius. As
you start to see the head that got blown off, two

heads sprout out of the--

SAM: Out of the wound.

MATT: It now has six heads.

SAM: It had five when we started!

MATT: Yep. And when you blew off the head, two
more grew in its place.

LAURA: Wait, but when Hercules defeated him, he
just cut off so many that they started attacking

themselves and they got tangled up.

MATT: Regardless, Tiberius, it's your turn.

ORION: It's still on the same position it was,
though, right? When we started? Right?

MATT: Yep. It did seem to heal a bit of its wounds
as the heads pull out of it.

It has a sense of regeneration.

ORION: And I go, oh no you don't. And I stick out
my ring and Chain Lightning him again.

MATT: Chain Lightning is a 6th-level spell.

ORION: Yeah, I know, and I had one stored in my
ring.

MATT: Your ring can only store up to a 3rd-level
spell. We went over this last time. It's okay.

ORION: No, I thought that was the Ioun Stone. We
all learned something today, kids. I don't do

that. Instead, fine. I'm going to cast Telekinesis
once. And I'm instantly going to do quicken spell

and do five sorcerer points to cast it immediately
again. Cast it on one head and another head and

(bashing, tying sounds). To try and wrap them all
and choke them.

MATT: Go ahead and roll an arcana check for the
first one.

ORION: Wasn't terrible. What is that?

SAM: 14.

MATT: Okay, and for the second one?

ORION: Natural 20.

MATT: Okay, so it rolled a 17 on its second save.
The first one, it did not resist because it rolled

a three. So what you do as you cast Telekinesis
once, you use the sorcery points to cast it again.

You can't get all the heads, but you can grab two
of them, one focus for each telekinetic thing. You

take both heads and (whack, whack) slam them three
times into each other and then twist the necks

around at the point where both of them are biting
onto their own necks after they've torn into a

second. For that, they're both going to take 2d8
impact damage. That's nine plus five. 14 points of

impact damage to each head. Both of those heads are
currently grappling each other, so they will not

be able to attack on its turn.

ORION: And then I go back against the tree. That
is my turn.

MATT: All right. It is now the hydra's turn. It
rolled a really high initiative. The two heads are

going to untangle themselves. That's their attack.
Now it only has four strikes this turn, two of

which are going to be against you and two of which
are going to be against you. All right, so. Two of

the heads rear back, lunging at Vax over here.
That's going to be a 29.

Second one is going to be a 19.

LIAM: Yes.

MATT: All right. So you take... 17 and 15. 17 and
15, so 32 points of piercing damage. One of the

heads snaps down on your torso and lifts you up
for a second as the other grabs the side of your

body, and it feels like it's about to tear you
apart for a second until you manage to elbow it in

the nose and manage to get free of one head and
shake off the other. Grog, another head comes at

you. First one comes at a 24.

TRAVIS: Hits.

MATT: And a natural 20 for the second.

TRAVIS: Yeah, I guess so. Phillip's a fucking
douche today.

MATT: 14 points from the first one. You are
raging, so it's halved to seven. The other one

that is a critical, that does come to 24, so 12
points of piercing damage. All right. That ends

its turn. Vex, you're up.

LAURA: Can I see its body at all?

MATT: Yeah, you can see its body, it's pretty
large, mainly just the heads are visible, the ramp

is blocking the lower half of it. So you can't see
its legs and its main part of its torso, but you

can see the necks and the heads.

LAURA: So I can't see its body.

MATT: Currently, no. It is blocked by her stone.

LAURA: Okay, I'm going to shoot towards where-- is
this bad? Oh no! I'm going to shoot towards where

all of the heads are joined together.

MATT: It managed to unravel itself during its
turn, but it used its attacks to do so.

LAURA: Yeah, down where all these heads are
connected. Right here.

MATT: Oh, okay. You can sort of see that area.
Best you can, yeah.

LAURA: I'm going to shoot my fancy exploding
arrow.

TALIESIN: The untested?

MATT: The one that you rolled.

TALIESIN: The one that has the little mark beside
it?

MATT: You pull out of your quiver the exploding
arrow, which you can see it, it's heavily weighted

in the front so you know you have to fire it at a
slight arc against most of your arrows that you

shoot. So go ahead and roll an attack on this
one.

LAURA: Oh god.

MATT: What did you roll? Are you serious? As you
pull back on your bow, you go to release it, and

the string ignites for a second, the arcane fire
behind it that you absentmindedly trigger, and as

you do you realize at the last minute, the arrow
doesn't fire. You actually freak out for a second

and release the bow. The arrow falls, the flame
hitting the edge of it, and it explodes and

detonates right in front of you. Make a reflex
saving throw. Sorry, a dexterity saving throw. Oh,

Pathfinder. You squeak in every now and then.

LAURA: Natural 20!

TALIESIN: Now?!

MARISHA: Fuck you, dice gods.

MATT: What would have been an explosively painful
38 points of damage is halved.

TALIESIN: Well, we know it works.

MATT: So you take 19 points of fire damage, and
you're knocked prone.

TALIESIN: Now, if only I could have attached that
to a donkey, at some point.

LAURA: You said 19? Jesus.

MATT: You're knocked flat on your ass.

LIAM: That was all of Dungeons and Dragons
contained in 30 seconds.

(laughter)

TALIESIN: For a year, he tried to get me to design
an exploding donkey.

SAM: I did.

MATT: That was a little unfortunate. Trinket can
still move and finish off the round, if you'd

like. That was only one of your attacks.

LAURA: All right. Can Trinket run up and fight
alongside Grog? All right, he's going to do that.

MATT: Trinket runs up, runs up the ramp, claws out
(roars).

LAURA: Gets two attacks because of bestial fury.
Jeez. Okay, I'm going to roll my Trinket dice now.

Don't kill me now. Okay. I don't even know. 16.

MATT: 16 does not hit.

LAURA: Cool. 19.

MATT: 19 does hit.

LAURA: All right. (fake-cries) Okay. 13.

MATT: 13.

LAURA: Does he get Hunter's Mark?

MATT: I would say yes, because he is your bear,
I'll let that happen.

LAURA: Yes he does! That's another five.

MATT: Nice, so 18 points of damage from Trinket.
As Trinket runs up, one claw swings through the

air, and as the head rears back, seeing this new
bear that's joined the fray, reaches out and

clamps onto its throat with its jaws, tearing a
chunk of its flesh out.

TRAVIS: Yeah, Trinket!

MATT: All righty. That brings us to Scanlan.

SAM: I'm going to punch it with Bigby's Hand. I'm
going to do Bigby's Hand. And punch it. That's it.

Punch. That's my move. Punch.

MATT: (laughs) Good, let me open the spell real
fast.

SAM: (singing) It's Bigby's Hand! Bigby's Hand.
You know it. Shamone.

MATT: So go ahead and roll a d20 and add your
spell attack.

SAM: Add my spell attack?

MATT: Yeah, it should be at the top of your spell
page.

SAM: This? Spell attack. 21.

MATT: 21 hits. Go ahead and roll 4d8 points of
force damage as the fist slams, clocking one of

the hydras in the face.

SAM: 23.

MATT: 23. And with that, you actually punch one of
the heads off the hydra. It goes spinning off into

the forest.

LAURA: Oh, you don't want to punch heads off.

SAM: Hey guys, I got rid of another head! Hey
guys, I'm on a roll! Who still hasn't gone?

Keyleth, you haven't gone?

TALIESIN: I haven't gone and Grog hasn't gone.

SAM: Okay, I'm going to inspire Grog with my bonus
action.

MATT: Okay, what do you inspire him with?

SAM: Oh, I'm going to inspire him. (singing) Come
on Grog, yeah, you know what I mean. It's time to

rage on this hydra...

MATT: A half-hearted d10 to you. (laughs) All
right, so. As that finishes your turn. At this

point, you see a series of blurs in the nearby
bushes.

SAM: Blurs in the bushes!

LAURA: Blurs from the bush? What?

MATT: A voice rings out, saying, "Hey! What are
you doing?!" And you now see an armored individual

come rushing out from behind this tree here,
another armored individual rushing from there, a

female with a large sword rushing from this side,
another character with leather armor, and a robed

female coming from behind here. "This is our mark!
You're not supposed to take that from us!"

LAURA: Well, maybe you should've fought it before
we got here!

MATT: "This is against the rules, you skag!"

ORION: Wait, what rules? We don't know the rules!

MARISHA: We got here first! Warcraft rules!

ORION: I don't know what that means!

MATT: So this guy runs forward. He can't quite get
all the way there, so he's going to sit there.

Mage moves out this way and is going to look over
at you as you're getting the gun, looks over and

reaches out her hand. Go ahead and make a wisdom
saving throw.

TALIESIN: Oh my god, for the love of-- no!

TRAVIS: What did you roll? Say it!

TALIESIN: One.

ORION: Hold on. Wait no, hold on. I peek over and
Counterspell.

MATT: You do not have visual on her at all. The
trees are in between, unfortunately. As you're on

the flying carpet, you see over the shoulder. You
go to get your gun-- you're trying to pull out Bad

News-- and then your muscles seize and you find
yourself held in place.

SAM: Hold Person. Hold Percy.

MATT: The cleric character you see comes forward,
holding aloft a holy symbol, and reaches up and

suddenly you see the canopy above the hydra begin
to glow with a bright orange light before a column

of fire slams down into the ground from the
heavens.

SAM: On the hydra?

MATT: On the hydra.

LAURA: Wait, what about the people that are near
the hydra?

MATT: It appears to only be affecting the hydra.

LAURA and SAM: Ooh.

SAM: What is that?

MATT: The hydra takes 48 points of damage.

TRAVIS: Four-eight?

SAM: While you were gone, everything happened, by
the way. Everything happened.

TRAVIS: We're apparently taking someone's bounty.

MATT: This character runs up, dressed in leather
armor, hood, cloak. Runs back, pulling two

longswords from underneath the cloak and swings up
to strike multiple times. You can see a hawk

gliding over, heading in the canopy. Does 12
points of damage with the first strike. The second

one, goes to swing and hits the hide and flanks
off of it.

LAURA: And it explodes in his face and he's 
knocked prone.

MATT: Sorry. This woman, as she rushes 
forward,

you can see the skin has a pink-reddish tint,
these blackened twin horns curl to the back of her

head, and she carries a giant greatsword in her
hands as she runs in a blur, yelling out this

angry war cry. "It's ours!" Runs up and swings
towards one of the hydra's heads. First one

misses. Second one misses. (whoosh) In her fury
and anger and the frustration of currently having

apparently a targeted bounty of theirs taken, she
swings wildly into the air, missing both strikes.

That's going to end their round. All right, that
brings us to Grog and Percy.

Percy, make a wisdom saving throw.

TALIESIN: This is a wisdom modifier plus d20?

MATT: It's whatever your wisdom save is.

TALIESIN: Natural 20.

MATT: Ones and twenties tonight. So you manage to
shrug the effect, but that's your turn. Grog.

TRAVIS: I would like to look to the woman that
swung and missed and go, oh, I think you meant to

do this. And I'll swing for the body of the
hydra.

MATT: Okay.

TRAVIS: 24.

MATT: 24 hits.

TRAVIS: And 20.

MATT: 20 hits.

TRAVIS: Why didn't I use the stupid dice, but
that's okay. 19?

MATT: 19 damage.

TRAVIS: And 11.

MATT: All right. (whack) You hit once again,
almost like you're cutting down a tree. You're

hitting the same mark you hit last turn, carving a
large chunk of the throat out. You can now see the

exposed bone underneath, and it's starting to
gurgle through its hissing. You bring the axe

around with the inertia on the backswing and slam
it into the base of another one of the necks. As

it slams into it and gets wedged in there, you
have to pull it out with a giant spray of blood

that actually spatters across the female tiefling,
which you now see. Who, as it sprays across her,

she licks it off her pointed teeth, and you can
see she brings her sword up, ready to go ahead and

attack it again. She's glaring at you now with a
this-is-mine type expression. Vax.

LIAM: All right, so am I still up on the elevated
part of the stone?

MATT: You are, yes.

LIAM: The one that's occupied with Grog, I'm going
to jump on it and cling my legs to the side and

try to slice down as I go, over the side wall.
Okay. First is a 28. I'll just do that. And it's a

sneak attack because it's occupied with Grog,
obviously. So that is a two-- this is my Keen

Dagger. That's a nine plus... nine, 13, 16, 19,
24. Nine plus 24 is 33, and then the second

dagger, Flametongue, nine, ten, 19.

MATT: All right, that does hit.

LIAM: Okay, that's a regular old four plus six is
ten, and then out comes the Venom Dagger, which

has already spit its poison, and that is a 26,
which also hits, and that is a four plus six is

ten. So (dagger noises) down its neck.

MATT: All right. As you spin over and arc down
onto the opposite side there, nice. Well done. I

forgot to roll for-- it does resist the poison at
the end of its turn, by the way. Though even with

the disadvantage it still managed to hit you last
turn. All right, cool, so you flip over, arc

yourself down after the series of dagger blades,
carving these two long, ragged wounds down the

side of its body. As you hit on the opposite side,
where the stonework is starting to crack a little

bit from the impact and swishing about of its
physical body.

LIAM: Can I ask, do I have a bonus action at this
point? I'm hasted, and I've done three attacks. Is

there time for a bonus action? I don't know.

MATT: You have an attack, bonus action attack, and
then the haste attack.

LIAM: Okay, I'm good.

MATT: All right. Keyleth.

MARISHA: Should I try and get these fuckers off,
or should I just kill the damn thing?

LAURA: Attack the hydra.

MARISHA: I cast Call Lightning and bring a
lightning bolt right down on its head.

MATT: In the same space, you can see there's a
burnt hole in the top of the canopy where that

fire column came through, there's a slight sizzle
of ozone before a giant hammering blow of

lightning streaks from the heavens down into the
body. You feel a jolt of energy in the daggers.

You pull them out instinctively before it manages
to make its way to your body.

Go ahead and roll damage.

MARISHA: (whoops) Nine, eight, bringing us to 17.
21 damage.

MATT: 21 damage, nice. All righty. That ends the
round. At the top, where the secondary head you

blew off was, two more heads sprout out. It now
has seven heads.

SAM: Hey guys! There's more heads for me to knock
off!

LAURA: Hey, that's the best thing ever!

SAM: We get to keep doing it!

LAURA: I bet if we keep doing it though, I mean,
eventually the heads will outweigh the body and

it'll just have to fall over.

ORION: Okay, well. He's 20 feet in radius himself,
isn't he? Sweet! I'm going to-- oh, there's a lot

of people, though. Who are they? I put my ring out
and I'm going to do instantly, quicken spell, do

five more SP will bring me down to one sorcerer
point, and I'm going to huck two Fireballs right

in the center of the hydra.

MATT: Okay. All right.

ORION: But you're off to the side. You're not on
it. Are you on it?

MATT: So you're drifting over here? Oh. No, you're
just aiming at it. Okay. So. Back-to-back, you

used the last of the sorcerer points to fire two
Fireballs that explode, one after another. Go

ahead and roll damage on both of them.

ORION: 20-- what is that?-- 29, 31, 35, 36, so
that's 41.

MATT: 41 for the first one. That's almost straight
sixes and fives. That's awesome.

ORION: 34, so that's 39.

MATT: 39. Were you adding five to each of those?

ORION: Yes.

MATT: I don't think you're supposed to do that for
Fireball.

ORION: It's any fire attack.

MATT: Oh, that's right, because you have the--
never mind. You do. Yes, that's right. I need a

reflex save from Grog and from you, Vax.

LIAM: I'm going to do rogue's evasion. I'm going
to use Matt Colville's die

made of iron from a meteorite.

SAM: From a meteorite?

LIAM: Hopefully not die.

SAM: Wait, from a meteorite?!

TALIESIN: To be fair, the die didn't dodge the
earth.

LIAM: What kind of roll is this? Saving throw.
I've rolled a 17.

MATT: This is a 20-foot radius.

LAURA: So everything in that area?

LIAM: Everything in the area. It's done. I rolled
a 17. Is that a success or a failure?

MATT: What is the, what's your spell difficulty?

ORION: Spell save? 17.

MATT: 17, so that just makes it for the first one,
yes.

LIAM: Just makes it. For the first Fireball?

MATT: For the first Fireball, yeah. You avoid that
entirely.

LIAM: Do I need to roll again? We're all going to
roll again in a moment?

MATT: Yep. Roll for the second one now. Because
two exploded in a row.

LIAM: Oh, now. That is less.

ORION: Oh, hold on a second. Wait. I want to put a
pause on this real quick.

LAURA: You can't. You already did it!

ORION: I asked the question before I cast the
spell. Is the hydra itself 20-foot radius? And I

got a nod, so I figured my spell--

MATT: The hydra itself, the creature, it's a
15-foot diameter.

ORION: Diameter.

MATT: A radius is from the outside of it, from the
middle.

ORION: Radius is different from diameter? Okay.

SAM: Geometry, kids.

ORION: Well then, it's fine, I'll shift it
closer--

LIAM: It's done. This is why this is interesting.
So I succeeded the first time. I failed the second

time, which means I halve whatever the damage is,
which is high.

MATT: Okay, you take 18 points of fire damage.

LIAM: That's okay.

MATT: Grog? Two saves.

TRAVIS: What am I rolling, sorry?

SAM: You're trying to beat 17.

TRAVIS: Oh, I rolled a 14, plus anything?

SAM: Yeah, you've got inspiration, friend.

TRAVIS: Yeah, I do!

ORION: Plus his what?

TRAVIS: Proficiency or what?

MATT: It's whatever your dex saving throw is.

TRAVIS: Oh. Two. So 16, plus--

LAURA: So 18 for the first one.

TRAVIS: 18 for the first one.

MATT: 18. So you take 22 points of fire damage.

LIAM: Where did all that math go from the last
game?

TRAVIS: Nine.

SAM: Nine?

TRAVIS: Nine.

TALIESIN: You can take it.

TRAVIS: Yeah, I got it. I'm all good.

MATT: Here's the other side of it, though. We'll
get to it in a second. Nine? You take 39 points of

fire damage.

LAURA: I don't want to say it, but Trinket's right
there.

MATT: Oh yeah. Roll a saving throw for Trinket.

SAM: No, remember? I said leave Trinket behind?

LAURA: Yeah, I know you said that, but he also
attacked him already.

MATT: Roll a saving throw for Trinket.

LIAM: Come on, Trinket die. Oh my god. Okay.

LAURA: Don't say it.

LIAM: No, it's good.

LAURA: 17 for the first one.

MATT: Okay, that just makes it. So Trinket takes
22 fire damage. All right,

and then the second one?

MARISHA: I'm eating so much sugar, compulsively,
out of nerves.

LAURA: It's stuck in there.

LIAM: Oh wow, it's not either, it's really on an
angle.

LAURA: It was really on an angle. That's
unfortunate because one of them was good, and one

of them sucked.

MATT: So what did you roll?

LAURA: Seven.

MATT: Seven, all right. So with the explosion,
both explode out of the way. You both manage to

avoid the brunt of the damage. Trinket falls
unconscious on the ground, the smell of burnt

hair. The hydra looks rough. However, the
individuals also nearby that came in are also

blasted back by the Fireball. Everyone but the
cleric and the mage in there are hit with the

double explosions. Everyone taking full damage
except for him, who takes half on the first one.

They all of a sudden look around, dazed and
frustrated.

SAM: Yeah, we just set off a nuke on the thing.

MATT: The hydra, due to the fiery impact,
collapses inside the stone structure.

SAM and MARISHA: Dead?

MATT: Dead. So how do you want to do this?

MARISHA: Our kill!

ORION: Oh my god.

LIAM: With casualties.

ORION: Before the last one reaches it, I actually
cast really hard Control Flame. It totally doesn't

work this way, but I do it anyway. You bastard, I
didn't mean to do this! And I'm going to hammer

like I did with Flaming Sphere when we were
playing in private.

MATT: I'll say you do this. You set off the first
Fireball. As it explodes and damages everyone in

the radius, it blows one of the throats of the
hydra apart. The heads are now caught on fire. As

you take the second Fireball, you set it off,
shouting that outward. You use Control Flame at

the same time as the Telekinesis you're still
maintaining to envelop the explosion of the

Fireball and contain it in the center. You slam it
and let it detonate as part of the impact into the

torso, where the heads are currently attached. You
end up blowing half the heads off the hydra in the

process. The rest of its body's trying to keep
itself standing up. However, the explosion itself

sent the stone wall around you guys broken into
pieces and shards now sticking upward. The hydra

backs up and falls onto its side, impaling itself
on the shattered stone wall that you had kept up

as it slowly slides down on the wound and gurgles
out its last life breath, the rest of its body on

fire, slowly sinking to the base of the stone
wall.

ORION: That was really cool.

TRAVIS: Who can heal really a lot really fast?

LAURA: Trinket! I get up and run over to Trinket
and hold his little head in my hands.

MARISHA: Who's bad?

TRAVIS and TALIESIN: Trinket's unconscious.

MARISHA: I run up to Trinket and I cast Cure
Wounds on Trinket in a 3rd-level spell slot.

MATT: All right.

LAURA: Help him!

TRAVIS: He's going to be fine.

MATT: As you guys rush up--

LIAM: Yeah, Vax is rolling down the corpse of the
hydra to stand in front of these strangers.

TRAVIS: I've rushed to Trinket's side, too, from
where I'm at.

MATT: All right. You're right at Trinket's side.
You're flying in here.

SAM: I get closer and do the Superbowl shuffle in
front of our new visitors,

like, yeah, that's what we did.

MARISHA: Trinket heals for 21 damage.

MATT: Trinket gets up, charred but okay.

MARISHA: Who else is bad?

MATT: Trinket looks over at Tiberius and gives you
a glare.

MARISHA: I use it again for Vax. Ooh, that's
better.

TRAVIS: I rolled two hit dice--

MATT: Well, you aren't at a short rest yet.
Because right now, as you guys are just standing

there, the rest of the other party is now stepping
up to you. The main human you now see in armor. He

has dirty blond short hair, little bit of stubble
on the chin, very well-armored, and the armor

itself looks like it's taken a beating. He steps
up and says, "All right. I'm going to ask you a

"question. What the fuck are you doing?!"

LIAM: I think we're killing a hydra. What are you
doing today?

MATT: "Fulfilling my contract."

SAM: Oh, by not killing the hydra? Because that's
what you just did.

LIAM: Listen, we don't know what the fuck you're
doing. Take the hydra. We're not here for a

bounty; we're trying to help the city.

LAURA: Well, no, give us the money.

MARISHA: We did want some proof.

MATT: He looks back to the rest of the group and
the cleric steps forward and touches his shoulder

for a second. Shrugs it off and says, "No! No.
Skags that wander these lands, taking creatures

"from underneath those who are lawfully permitted
to hunt these beasts and take that bounty, and

"that makes you breakers of the law of
Vasselheim."

SAM: What's your name, sir?

MATT: Turns over and looks toward you, takes a
couple steps forward, leaping off of the broken

stonework on this side. "Aldor. And I work for the
Slayer's Take, those of us that are empowered to

"hunt contracted bounty-given beasts and creatures
in this land. You have gone out and laid claim to

"a beast that you had no lawful right to."

LAURA: Well, the Bastion up on the wall said we
could, so that's why we did it.

MARISHA: While all of this is going down, I'm
going to casually walk over and open my little

harvesting book and start harvesting some hydra
blood.

MATT: As you attempt to do that, the mage walks up
and goes, "I wouldn't recommend that." You can see

her elven face, there is a glare of frustration
and standoffishness that is very sincere.

"Do not step closer."

TRAVIS: I'd put your hand down. You see, I had a
horrible day yesterday, and unless you want to end

up like puppy-dog here, we'll all end up in a big
pile of blood, unless you find a way to split your

take with us, and maybe let us go on our way. You
see, we're new in these parts,

and we have a habit for killing.

MATT: "Who would pay you?"

LAURA: What do you mean?

MATT: "Where were you going to take this creature
for the bounty you keep speaking of?"

LIAM: Which one is talking?

MATT: This is Aldor, the same human fighter.

LAURA: Aldor, they told us we could kill it and
then give the heads and then bring it in and then

they would give us money...

SAM: We didn't think this through. Listen. Let's
level with you. This whole escapade was not very

well thought out. We're new in town. We don't want
to step on any toes. We did you a solid; we killed

your thing. Let's calm it down a notch and let's
just talk, shall we?

LAURA: Why don't you just tell people you killed
it, we helped, you get the money, you give us half

of it, and we call it even?

LIAM: Otherwise, we're going to go right now.

MATT: He laughs to himself and looks back at the
rest of them and says, "You have to understand.

"The Slayer's Take's contracts are binding.
Magically. If we don't take this creature in after

"dealing the killing blow, we're at an impasse with
the Slayer's Take."

LAURA: Oh. Can you stab it right now? Maybe it's
still breathing?

LIAM: Can anybody heal it? Can you kill it again?

MATT: The cleric steps forward, this human cleric,
older, whitish hair. Steps forward, his mace at

his side, armor currently spattered with hydra
blood, looking a little charred, but for the most

part okay. He says, "Okay. Before this gets out of
hand, perhaps if you come with us to the Slayer's

"Take, there would be a possibility of us still
enacting this contract if we find a way to

"magically bind you to it. Now, mind you, I don't
know how the funds would be legally distributed;

"however, if you talked to the leader of our order,
perhaps there could be

"some sort of a resolution to this."

SAM: What funds are we talking about, here? What
was the contract that you had been binded by?

MATT: They look at each other and take a step back
defensively and say, "We don't discuss money

"matters out in the open where it's so easy for
bodies to be hidden."

TRAVIS: Who is this leader of yours?

MATT: "The one that you're looking for... is on
the other page."

(laughter)

SAM: Aldor is no longer talking, right?

LAURA: No, Sean Connery's talking now. I'm sorry.

MATT: "The Huntmaster."

(laughter)

SAM: That's your leader?

LIAM: I suddenly remembered my Charlemagne.

MATT: "Are you taunting me?"

LIAM: I'm sorry. Not at all. Listen, we were about
to come to blows. You and I are going to work this

out. Words are mightier than the sword, right?

SAM: Don't ever do that again.

TRAVIS: What if we return, saying that you had
acquired our

services in the killing of this beast?

SAM: We were subcontracted to you, yes.

MATT: "The only way that would work is if you were
contracted to the Slayer's Take beforehand, which

"if you were to agree to be inducted, perhaps that
would alleviate the concern. We could then write

"you into the contract magically, share the funds,
even, and you would be free to accept contracts to

"kill creatures at your leisure."

TRAVIS: I'm sorry, a little clarification. We get
paid to kill?

MATT: "We're not out here for fun." At which point
the tiefling female behind him says, "Hah, say

"that yourself. I'm out here for both." She flicks
her sword and the blood across the ground.

TRAVIS: Are you in the company or know of Siren?

MATT: They all look at each other. "She's been
known to do work with the Slayer's Take, yes."

TRAVIS: Yeah, I'm definitely in.

SAM: Introduce yourselves, if you don't mind.

MATT: "Let's do that as we walk." At which point
the cleric says, "Take the heads, cleave them off.

"We'll take them back as trophies to prove the
contract is sealed."

The leader, Aldor, says, "Very well. Clean your
weapons. No funny business. A single moment of

"your eyes wandering to your blade. I don't want it
to have to come to blows.

"Let's carve up this creature."

SAM: Oh, what will you do to us? What you did to
the hydra? Oh no! Not kill us.

MATT: "I really, really don't like you."

SAM: Few people do.

LIAM: You don't have to worry about that. We're
out here helping the city for the sake of good,

not earning a paycheck.

LAURA: I mean, I was going to ask them for a
paycheck immediately after we'd gone back to the

city, but you know.

LIAM: That's how you roll.

MATT: "There's a very lucrative trade on
monster-hunting in these woods, but you have to

"make sure that you're certified. Otherwise, you're
taking money and food out of the mouths of us and

"our families."

LIAM: Certification is key.

MATT: "Come on. Gather up the creature's bits."
And they all go to start carving

into the body of the hydra.

LAURA: Ooh, can we help?

MARISHA: Now I start doing my thing.

LIAM: I've got the naughty bits.

MARISHA: Do I need to roll for this?

MATT: You don't have to, actually. The group are
very well trained, and as you go to try to, the

tiefling puts her hand down and starts tearing
pieces out. There's a dominance, a standoff here.

LAURA: Can I have a scale? Just one more scale?

MARISHA: I want some stuff.

SAM: It's all right. We'll get it and we'll figure
it out when we get there.

MATT: There seems to be a general feel here that
you've already broken the law enough. If you

really want to fight for it, you can.

LIAM: Let's quit while we're ahead.

SAM: Yeah, let's deal with the naughty bits
later.

MATT: It takes about half an hour or so to reap
the bits and pieces, then again making your way

back, after you've pushed the remainder of the
body into the pool itself, letting it slowly sink

to the bottom. You all make your way back the path
you came in an awkward, quiet march.

LAURA: Oh, you guys set that bait out. You guys
killed that ape, didn't you?

MATT: Aldor gives you a look. "Good to know we
aren't the only trackers in this town."

TALIESIN: That's so clever. Clever girl.

MATT: Eventually make your way back to town, skirt
around the outer wall to one of the three main

gates, this one right on the outskirts of the
Braving (stutters). Too many creatures. Braving

Grounds. The gates open. You're all led in, first
question at the sight of you guys, but Aldor

raises his hand and says, "No, they're with us;
it's fine." You all walk in, leads you to the

outskirts of the Braving Grounds to a new area of
the town you have yet to travel to. At which

point, he introduces, "Welcome to the Quad Roads.
This is where the Slayer's Take makes its place.

"This is also where the Erathis's Crown is. Best
you pay an homage to the

"deity of civilization while here."

He pulls out a small gem around his neck with a
small symbol on it, kisses it, and puts it back in

his shirt. You guys continue walking to what is
now, you can see these large roads that streak

across. You've seen them join with the other
sections. This is the most central of all the

various districts of the city of Vasselheim. There
is a very large trade bazaar structure not that

far out of the main gate that leads to the center
of this district. You can see barkers shouting out

left and right to you, various phrases dealing
with food and various crops, and creature fresh

meat. "Fresh meat out of the Abundance! Takers of
the Abundance!" And people yelling out for general

goods, packs, leathers, large carts being wheeled
past you, until eventually you make your way to

what looks like a very old, dark-wood lodge, about
three stories high, decorated with dozens of tusks

and claws and other trophies that look as old as
the building itself. A carved wooden sign stands

bolted to the top of the porch that says "Slayer's
Take Guildhall" in the common tongue. Approaching

the door, still that awkward quiet keeping over
the group, there is an engraving into the

doorway-- it's pushed into the wood-- that reads,
"Here is where the hunters gather, keen eyes and

"blades at ready. We cease the unknown's cackling
laughter. Our will is strong, our members plenty.

"We stand against the tide of darkness. We do the
deeds few men can handle. Reap forth a trophy from

"the carcass. We are your strength, we are your
candle."

Aldor does a knock on the door. The door opens, an
eye looks through, and the door swiftly opens as

another individual who's dressed in a makeshift
leather and hide armor steps aside. You're all let

in, carrying the large hydra heads through that
have been gathering looks from the individuals

watching you charge through the streets. To the center of the
room, you see what looks to be amongst the loose

cast-iron candelabras that are affixed to the
rafters, small candles flicker for the interior

light, you see a long desk where a halfling male
of muscular build sits eagerly rubbing his hands

together, his harsh features and light scars
dotting his face and hands, his red hair showing

tinges of grey. His shifting smile belies a
youthful vigor as you approach with the trophies.

"Aldor! Welcome back. How goes that bleeding
mess-headed beast?

"I see you seem to have dropped it before you."

Aldor takes the first head that he's carrying and
chucks it to the ground. As it rolls across with

two large thuds, the rest of the congealed liquid
seeping into the wood.

"Aye, that's true, but we
bring a bit of an obstruction in the way."

Glances to the rest of you. "Obstruction, you say.
Okay. Well, this is a curious phrase. Please

"explain to me what has occurred in your outing on
this contract."

Aldor scratches the side of his face. "Well, it
seems that we have a group of skags."

LAURA: Not intentional. Skags.

MATT: "Not intentional skags out of the forest,
intending to hunt and managed to deal the killing

"blow to our mark."

ORION: Actually, I did that.

MATT: "This one did it." He wipes some of the soot
off his face. "Amongst other issues."

ORION: Sorry. My aim was off.

LIAM: We've come from Emon. We're not exactly
familiar with the customs and traditions of your

city. We were merely trying to help. My friend may
have slaughtered the hydra-- unintentionally, of

course. We're hoping to somehow fit into your
society. Not sure how that works.

Maybe you can help?

MATT: The halfling walks from behind his desk with
his hands behind his back. (laughs) "You come from

"Emon. You are not familiar with Vasselheim, yet
the first thing you do upon arriving is leap down

"to the Vesper Timberland, fighting a freaking
hydra."

LAURA: It was attacking the wall. We were
protecting you.

LIAM: A hydra attacking your city. We were merely
following our conscience.

MATT: "No, this is okay. I like the balls you all
have. This is ridiculous, what you've done."

LAURA: I have enormous balls.

MARISHA: Yep, we both do.

LIAM: See? They're massive.

MATT: He steps away. "Lady. I appreciate your
brashness, but I would hope

"that you also act like a lady."

MARISHA and LAURA: Oh.

MARISHA: That's a high standard.

LIAM: Careful where you're walking, little man.

MATT: "All I say is I appreciate-- yes, your bear
is quite fierce."

LAURA: He's got giant balls, as well.

MATT: He reaches past and looks to the wall and
you see there are two dire bear heads affixed to

the wall of various ancient degrees.

MARISHA: Don't look, Trinket. Don't look.

MATT: "Well. I can see that you may have breached
the contract here, and there may be ways of

"perhaps rectifying this, should you take the
pledge. The pledge itself is a process, one that I

"myself cannot specifically judge upon. This would
have to go to my boss, the Headmaster. My wife."

(laughter)

LIAM: I feel you.

TRAVIS: Respect.

MATT: "I will see if she is available. One
moment."

And the halfling patters off down a hallway.

LIAM: That is fucking awesome.

LAURA: That would be amazing.

MATT: Came back a few moments later. "She would
like to see the skags now."

SAM: What is with skags? Just call us people,
please?

TRAVIS: We have a name. Vox Machina.

LIAM: Perhaps you've heard of us.

LAURA: Remember it.

MATT: "I have heard of it not before. I will call
you this upon you making the pledge. Until then,

"you are a group of forest-walking skags."

SAM: All right.

MATT: You follow him into the back hallway, down
past a series of doors, some of which are

half-open and ajar. You see what appear to be
bunks or rooms for rest. There are some shields

and various old weapons set up as decor against
the wooden hallways. Down to a large, heavy door

that looks like it's actually, the red leather
stretched across it, nailed across all parts of

the doorway, with a branded symbol in the center.
The same symbol that you saw adorning the, almost

like a relief behind the Slayer's Take lodge
entranceway sign. As the door opens, the halfling

pushing it aside. "Please, enter. She would like
to talk to you."

As you guys all step inside, the interior, a soft,
glowing magical torch lights the room from the

ceiling. The entire room is a large office or
study. There are books and meticulously kept

scrolls. At a glance, you can see they break down
various creature types, that talk about indigenous

bestial creatures, some talk about the anatomy of
mythical and mystical beasts. This is a research

facility for the hunting of any such creature that
would find its way near or in the vicinity of

Vasselheim. There, waiting for you, not at her
desk, but leaning against it, with her hands also

at her back, similar to her husband, you see
before you in very finely crafted dark brown and

black studded leather armor, a small shoulder
cloak fixed and tossed over one shoulder, tousled

short brown hair, deep purple skin. The second
tiefling you've seen today. This woman stands with

bright white eyes, no pupil. Her tongue flickers
out of her mouth like a snake a little bit as you

enter. And she looks about the rest of the party.
"Please. It would be my pleasure to talk with you

"for a moment about what you have done this day.
Thank you, husband."

The door slams shut behind him.

LAURA: You two make an adorable couple.

SAM: Yeah, he's a peach. Good find.

MATT: "Welcome, skags. You seem to not be liking
this title. A skag is an affectionate term we use

"for those who break our rules and will go to
prison,

"perhaps beneath the Amaranthine Oubliette."

SAM: Well, as long as it's affectionate.

LIAM: We understand we've broken the letter of
your law, but perhaps not the spirit of your law,

which is maybe more important.

MATT: "Which is why you are here and not currently
being taken for the hall of judgment."

LIAM: We're very grateful.

MATT: "Now. My husband said you have interfered
with a contract that has already been enacted."

SAM: We didn't know we were interfering with it at
the time. We thought we were just doing good, and

we're here to make right by that.

LIAM: We're tourists, basically.

MATT: "Which is also why you are not at the hall
yet. He also said you showed interest in joining

"our ranks to avoid this prosecution, which I think
is a very smart move." And she walks behind her

desk and sits down. "Should you be cut out for our
work, that is. You have proven to have slain this

"hydra with the accompaniment of one of our roving
bands of monster hunters."

LAURA: They didn't do much, but yes.

SAM: We're quite capable fighters. Grog here
almost won in his fight the other night.

Sorry, Grog.

MATT: "You're the one that nearly felled the
Hammer."

TRAVIS: I am.

MARISHA: So you have heard of us.

MATT: "I've heard of this one."

SAM: Show her the lip.

TRAVIS: I kept a keepsake.

MATT: (laughs) "A fine trophy. Do not show him you
still have that. I don't think it would go over

"too well. Now. Most applicants for our humble
family make it maybe a month or two before the

"Vesper Timberlands take them. Those that remain,
well. They prove worthy of our business contracts.

"You are all on trial by deed, under my claim and
authority. Should you agree and fulfill my

"request, indeed, you will be absolved of your
infractions against the Slayer's Take and be given

"membership to our age-old tradition. With
membership comes with access to our lodge, food,

"room and board, and training facilities. Simple
arms can also be provided. Those that bear our

"insignia may also get a discount of supplies at
most of Vasselheim's merchants. Most importantly,

"though, you will then have access to our bounty
contracts. To specify, we don't just hunt beasts

"and creatures. A large part of what we do is
harvest from our marks' requested components.

"Blood, eyes, teeth, organs. We receive orders from
all across Exandria, from as far as even the city

"Emon, which you apparently hail from."

LAURA: We have a keep there.

MATT: "How nice for you."

SAM: Greyskull.

MATT: "I will make a note of it." And she reaches
over and grabs a quill and not even looking at the

paper, just scribbles.

LIAM: We're friends with the emperor, thank you.

MATT: "Well, perhaps this emperor and many of
these scholars or seers or mages you've

"encountered have ordered from us specifically
required components, for you see, the most

"powerful of magics within nations require a focus
or sacrifice of some kind. Many of these require

"pieces of these creatures. So many contracts are
from very high-paying clients that have better

"things to do with their time than wander skulking
about the forest, seeking such things as a hydra.

"There's a lot of money to be gained should you be
up for it. I would ask you to take a contract,

"complete it, and return. That is all. You would
have three days to do so. Do you accept?"

SAM: What is involved in signing or binding this
contract?

MATT: "There is a small ritual that binds you to
the contract. Within this time it must be

"completed. Should you fail, the contract is
absolved, and your membership is revoked."

SAM: Oh, it's a trial just to bind the contract?

MATT: "Your trial is to take the contract and you
have three days to complete it."

TALIESIN: Is there a payout on this contract?

MATT: "Oh yes, you will still receive the money
for it, and with membership, from what I have been

"told by my husband, possibly even share in the
bounty for this hydra

"you helped slay earlier on this day."

LAURA: That's good, because otherwise they didn't
get any credit, right?

Because it was like, magically--

MATT: "Precisely. Also a part of the three-day
contract, with three days before it is null and void."

LIAM: We've taken out a beholder and a handful of
illithid. We're not really worried about your

contract. Give us your contract; we'll sign it.

MATT: She chuckles under her breath. "That is good
to know," she says disbelievingly.

SAM: There's an insignia that we get? Is it given
to us on some sort of jacket for members only?

(laughter)

MATT: She reaches to part of her shoulder
pauldron, lifts it up, and you can see there's a

brand on the side of her arm.

SAM: My body's a temple. I don't like that.

MATT: "Then perhaps you'd like the judgment."

SAM: The judgment? Oh no, no. Do I have to get
branded?

MATT: "It does not hurt much."

SAM: (whimpers) I'm really wimpy.

MATT: "Gnomes... Three days. Will you accept?"

LAURA: Yeah, let's do it. We're totally tough.

SAM: Could you do mine in henna?

(laughter)

MATT: "I will take that as an acceptance on your
part, as well."

SAM: Thank you. Yes. I'm with my group.

MATT: "Good, good. Now, I trust you work well as a
team, but I am curious how well you work with

"others. As this is a test, I will be dividing your
band between two contracts."

LIAM: Ex-squeeze me?

MATT: "Two teams."

SAM: Do we get to pick the teams?

MATT: "You, gnome. Giant. Ranger. Tinkerer. You
will form the first team."

LAURA: What?

LIAM: That is bullshit.

MATT: "You will be taking your contract with a
couple of other hopeful possible members, as well.

Three days to fulfill. Now, cutthroat.
Dragonborn. Vine-speaker.

"You will form the other team."

LAURA: Does my bear get to come with me?

MATT: "Your bear is allowed, yes. I shall now look
over our extending contracts to decide your test

"for tomorrow. Go. Return in the morning fed,
armed, and ready to set out. And hopefully get

"affiliated with your journeymen members. Now, be
gone. I have business to do."

LAURA: Wait, no. We work as a pair. Maybe you
don't know that about us.

MATT: "Oh, then this should prove a very
interesting test."

LIAM: You don't understand, we haven't been apart
in about--

LAURA: Ever.

MATT: "Life is hard here in Vasselheim. Deal with
disappointment."

LIAM: Oh, I'm sorry. What was your name again?

MATT: "I am known as the Huntmaster around these
parts. But should you wish the name in its full,

"Huntmaster Vanessa Cyndrial."

LIAM: Thank you. Vanessa... Shitmaster...

TRAVIS: Don't. I grab him and I start walking out
of the room.

SAM: Vanessa?

MATT: "Cyndrial. C-Y-N-D-R-I-A-L."

SAM: I am not going to spell that right.

MATT: "In the morning: fed, armed, and ready."
Knocks the desk twice. Her husband closes the door

behind you. You take a deep breath and realize
this will be a very interesting challenge.

MARISHA: Husband? Do you have a name other than
husband?

MATT: (laughs) "They call me Mertin, yes."

MARISHA: Mertin?

MATT: "Mertin Cyndrial, yes."

SAM: Mertin Cyndrial... Well, this should be
interesting.

We'll set off on our journey right away, then.

TRAVIS: When do we get our brand?

SAM: After we complete the task.

MATT: Taps his nose and points. "You catch on
quick. This bodes very well for you, possibly."

SAM: Have a good three days.

TRAVIS: Can we stay in the guildhall while we're
waiting?

MATT: "You are not members. Soon, though. When
one's brand is achieved, as much as you like."

SAM: All right, Grog. Let's go.

LAURA: Question, husband. Is there a way to change
those little pairings that she made? Perhaps get

my brother and I on the same team?

MATT: (laughs) "Trust me, there's no way to change
my wife's mind. I've tried."

(laughter)

MATT: He walks off. And we'll conclude the session
for the evening there.

LIAM: Eat a bag of dicks.

[end of transcript]