MATT: Welcome back to Critical Role this week,
ladies and gentlemen, where a bunch of us awesome

voice actors get together and play Dungeons and
Dragons weekly. We have the return of some of our

fantastic guests from last week, but we'll get to
them in just a second. But first, let's go ahead

and get you started with our fancy intro.

[dramatic music]

MATT: Welcome back! (giggles) Welcome back. We got
most everyone here right now. Travis is on his

way. He flew all the way from Alaska, and thanks
to some delays-- weather and everything-- he's

getting here as fast as he can, so we may have a
Grog arriving a little late during today's

session. Â Pretty late for today's session. But in
the meantime, our illustrious Laura Bailey will be

controlling Grog.

LAURA: (Grog voice) I would like to rage!

MATT: Excited for that prospect. It should be a
lot of fun. So also want to thank you again, our

invited guests returning for their second week. We
have Felicia Day and Mary Elizabeth McGlynn. Thank

you, guys.

MARY: Pleasure is mine.

LAURA and MARY: Pleasure.

FELICIA: Pleasure. I smell like peanut butter.

MATT: That's delightful.

FELICIA: That's why I smelled my fingers earlier.

MARY: Is this a normal thing, or just today?

FELICIA: I just was like, hi! (sniffs)

SAM: That's normally how people greet me.

FELICIA: If you smelled like grape jelly, we would
be BFFs! Anyway, hi.

MATT: So welcome back. Well, cool. Before we get
into it, a couple of quick announcements. One. For

every 100 subs that we get during the show
tonight, we'll be giving away our packages that

include a picture of the Critical Role cast,
signed, a Player's Handbook for Dungeons and

Dragons, signed by the cast of Critical Role.
We'll also be giving away a copy of Felicia's

awesome new book that she's about to go on a book
tour for.

(cheering)

SAM: And it doesn't look like some self-published
thing, that looks like a real-- whoa!

FELICIA: Not to insult self-published things, but
it's legit. There is a sparkle on my dress. That

is a very high-class sparkle.

SAM: Does it have a barcode on it?

FELICIA: That is an android, that's why I look so
trim there. Yeah, but the book's coming out on

Tuesday! So I'll be going on book tour, so if you
guys want to come see me, I'm going to 12 cities.

Sorry Midwest. I'm sorry. You're so angry at me.
Anyway, thank you, yeah.

MATT: Awesome, cool, well you guys get some copies
of that coming through. We also have a bunch of

other random goodies we'll be throwing in with
these packages that include other awesome DND

stuff and comics and it'll be a little surprise,
so for every 100 subscribers, we'll be giving one

of those packages away, so that'll be fun. Also
wanted to do a quick announcement for one of our

friends recently put up a project here. Marisha,
if you want to do the intro.

MARISHA: Yes! Hi everybody. Okay, so. Boonzy
Arts-- they make geeky candles. They have a

Kickstarter right now called Wheel of Flame, and
they're making essentially DND thematic immersive

candles that smell like the environments that
you're in! This one is Dragon's Lair and it's

smoky and musky.

MATT: We're going to be lighting this tonight.

LAURA: Is there moldy dungeon smell?

MARISHA: They're coming out with a few more
because their Kickstarter's doing pretty well.

MATT: Basement tavern refuse candle.

TALIESIN: Ogre's nest.

MARISHA: I think they're making a tavern one.

SAM: Bed crap?

(laughter)

MATT: That's a Critical Role exclusive. The
Scanlan offshoot.

MARISHA: Yeah, I think they have one that's Elven
Forest, that smells like a forest and they have

one that's Sorcerer's Lair, that smells like sage
and stuff. But yeah, Wheel of Flame is their

Kickstarter. Go check them out, I know they have a
limited amount of candles they can give out. Also,

there's a d20 hidden in every candle, so when the
wax melts, you get a d20!

LAURA: That's lovely.

MARISHA: So yeah! Check them out. Wheel of Flame.

MATT: Great. Thank you, Marisha.

(cheering)

MATT: So much flame. So yeah, for all you guys who
pay the extra subscription dollars for the

smell-o-vision twitch stream, you will be
able to also experience the

sensory death of the party.

LAURA: Why would you say that?

MATT: You guys picked it. But yeah, so that's
actually pretty cool. Hopefully there's not a

flammable d20 in there somewhere. That would be
problematic.

FELICIA: That was weird.

SAM: That happens all the time.

FELICIA: Is it really just random kiss-bys?
Drive-by kiss?

MATT: Two weeks in a row. We already have a
winner?

ZAC: PrimeJohn1.

MATT: PrimeJohn1 is our first winner!
Congratulations, PrimeJohn1.

SAM: PJ Uno!

FELICIA: Did you have to rename him?

SAM: Well, I gave him a nickname to the nickname.

FELICIA: That's really adorable. It's a
sub-nickname.

SAM: A sub-nick!

(laughter)

FELICIA: It'll eventually just be like (grunts).

MATT: Awesome, so let's go ahead and jump in here.
Anyone else have any other announcements they want

to say before we get into the game?

LAURA: Travis and I will be in Vancouver next
weekend. Not this coming weekend, but the weekend

after. But we're not going to be here next week,
so yeah, should say that.

MATT: Awesome, so in Vancouver?

LAURA: It's a con. And you should come say hi.

MATT: In Vancouver.

LAURA: In Vancouver. Go look at my Twitter. You'll
see what it is about.

MATT: There you go. Vancouver convention. Laura
and Travis; it's going to be awesome. Also, me and

Marisha are flying out early morning tomorrow to a
convention called AkaiCon that's over in

Tennessee, so we'll be there this weekend. So if
any of you guys are over there on the eastern

seaboard and that vicinity that want to come say
hi and hang out with us for the weekend, we have a

bunch of fun panels and stuff, so. AkaiCon. Come
say hi.

FELICIA: That smells delicious. I want to eat it.
Or is that you? No, it's not you.

SAM: No, I rubbed peanut butter all over my
chest.

(laughs)

MATT: Homeopathic VapoRub, really.

SAM: Oh wow, I do smell it now. Yeah, that's
nice.

TALIESIN: Nothing fun right now.

FELICIA: Does it smell like ogre butt, because
isn't that what we're doing? Troll butt?

MATT: Oh, and I also wanted to give a big thanks
out to Obsidian! They actually approved my use of

the Pillars of Eternity soundtrack in our music
for the show. So now I'll be able to use elements

of their soundtrack for our game, so thank you
guys. And I guess, let's get into this game. So.

Where we left off. Our party of adventurers, Vox
Machina, had broken a few rules in the city of

Vasselheim and had actually infracted upon a
contract for a guild of creature hunters known as

the Slayer's Take. And this group essentially told
Vox Machina that either they could go and be

arrested for this and put on trial for breaking
the law, or they could go and join the guild, as

such could be included and written onto the
contract and everything would be fine. So they

decided to go that route. They inquired with the
Huntmaster, and she basically told the party that

they could join after they went through a trial
where they had to complete a contract. However,

she hand-chose and divided the party into two
separate, smaller groups. The first group being

the one that began playing with us last week, in
which we had the illustrious Scanlan, Percy, Vex,

and Grog paired up with two new adventurers, one
of which was Zahra the tiefling warlock, who also

is a prospective interested person to join the
guild, the Slayer's Take, and Felicia's character,

Lyra, the human wizard, who somehow became a
member of the guild and is assigned on her

first-ever excursion to lead this group towards
the end of their contract. Now, you the audience

chose the creature which they were going to hunt,
and you voted on an adult white dragon. So they've

been hunting that.

LAURA: I didn't realize the audience chose that.

FELICIA: Thanks, guys.

(laughter)

MATT: So after stalking your way up the Glasswalk
Road to the north of the city of Vasselheim,

through the Vesper Timberlands, through the cold
weather as you continue to travel northward on the

word of a crazed gentleman in a tavern somewhere
who supposedly saw a dragon, you managed to knock

over your flask. You managed to see such a dragon
skulking through the skies and actually attacking

near where you were staying. While you were
sleeping, a group of orcs and some ogrish creature

and a dire wolf, attacked your group, you managed
to slaughter the encroaching evils, rather rapidly

in a daring display of butt-flap long-john Percy.

(laughter)

MATT: Some majestic combat prowess you guys managed
to completely eliminate. You interrogated one of

the orcs before Grog decided to take his head off.
It pushed you north, north-west direction within

the forest itself. You managed to come upon what
looked to be a perpetual blizzard that was blowing

around this mountain range, and the dragon was
sighted again taking its rest to the north part of

this mountain. You pushed through the forest, managed
to avoid a few possible dangerous situations,

thanks to your ranger guiding you through her
favored terrain, eventually coming upon the base

of this mountain range. Now, you looked above and
you saw what looked like the entrance to a cavern

where at least the dragon seems to fly in and out
of. It's a ways up the mountain, and there was a

smaller cavern towards the base of the mountain.
You went to inquire what was in there, at which

point out of nowhere, a giant rock made of solid
ice and stone was flung out of the forest,

slamming into Vex, knocking her onto her ass and
doing a decent amount of physical damage.

LAURA: 30. 30 points.

MATT: 30 points physical damage to the ranger, at
which point two frost giants seemed to, one coming

out of that cavern, another seemed to be
stalking through the woods, approached the party

and that is where we left off. So to begin this, I
would like everyone to roll initiative.

FELICIA: But they're friendly. They look
friendly.

SAM: Â Let's try reasoning with them. Whoa! That's
not bad

FELICIA: I'm not going to go last this time!
(gasps)

SAM: There's a lot of gasping going on.

FELICIA: It's not horrible but it's not (sharp
gasp).

MATT: All right, so.

SAM: Wait, does Travis not--

MATT: Roll for Grog.

LAURA: Roll for Grog.

MATT: Roll for Grog's initiative.

LAURA: I rolled 18 for me. Oh, that's good. 19 for
Grog.

MATT: All right, so we have 25 to 20, anyone?

TALIESIN: 28.

LAURA: What?!

SAM: He rolled a natural 20.

TALIESIN: I rolled another natural 20.

LAURA: Those dice are magic.

TALIESIN: I sacrificed a small child to these
dice.

MATT: So Percy's up first. Anybody else above 20?

FELICIA: I rolled a 20, but I have a negative two
initiative.

MATT: Okay. 19 or 18?

LAURA: 19 for Grog. 18 for Vex.

MATT: And also for Lyra.

FELICIA: 18 buddies.

MATT: (chuckling) That's sweet. So 15 to ten?

SAM: 15.

LAURA: These are pretty good initiatives.

MARY: 13.

SAM: Hey, then we're all above 13, it's pretty
good! This bodes well.

MARY: I have no initiative whatsoever.

(laughter)

MATT: All right, that'll do. So at the top of the
round as one giant has pulled itself out of the

cavern and begins shouting over in Giant about the
intruders. The secondary one that comes stalking

out of the forest, both of them with these giant
axes that are currently held on the side of

leather belts (roars) give a bellowing scream and
go charging into the fray. At the top of the

round, though, Percy is ready. What have you got?

TALIESIN: What is that strange orange thing, right
here?

MATT: This is actually a tree.

TALIESIN: That's a tree. Okay, good. So that's
cover?

MATT: Yeah. This rock and these boulders here have
some cover, but from a giant who has a very large

perspective maybe not as much as you'd think.

TALIESIN: Okay, so is there any way I can maybe
get some partial cover right over here?

MATT: You could move over this way, yes.

TALIESIN: Yeah. So I've got cover from the tree
from this one until he moves,

but I can see this guy?

MATT: Correct.

TALIESIN: It is Bad News time! I'm going to bust
out Bad News and take a shot.

MATT: All right, so. Rip out Bad News, uses one of
your attacks, second attack prepares it. You're

ready to fire, go ahead and shoot.

TALIESIN: All right. They're pretty big, so I'm
going to take the negative five to my attack bonus

and see what that does. That's a 21.

MATT: 21 will hit.

TALIESIN: That's a good shot. Oh yeah! That's 17,
27, plus-- 33 points of damage.

MATT: 33 points of damage? Nice. So you hear this
loud, ringing explosion that echoes through this

small valley at the base of the mountain, and from
out the corner of your eye, it's the first time

you've seen this weapon do its wonders. You see a
flash of light, a plume of smoke goes up and you see

this impossibly fast blast of some projectile go
slamming into the shoulder of the giant over here

that's currently reaching for a rock. It pushes
him back against the wall, which prevents him from

falling over and he catches himself. Looks back,
and you can see there's a small crater in the

armor where a little bit of blood begins to pour
out, and a little bit of smoke seems to be pouring

out of the impact. (snarls and yells) Gives out a
really angry yell. You can see like spittle that

begins to shake loose and spray from his mouth out
of frustration. That the end of your turn?

TALIESIN: That is the end of my turn. Yeah. I am
now going, maybe I shouldn't have done that.

(laughter)

FELICIA: It was very impressive. It was very
impressive.

MATT: All right, Grog's up first.

LAURA: (Grog voice) Grog--

SAM: (Grog voice) Would like--

LAURA: (Grog voice) No, Grog doesn't want to Rage!
Grog shouts out in Giant, wait! My giant masters

were killed by a white dragon, which we think is
here. Will you help us fight him?

MATT: Okay. So as Grog stands there, shouting this
out to both sides to the two giants, I want to

have Grog go ahead and roll a persuasion check.

LAURA: Okay. I am going to use Grog's dice.

MATT: Yes. Let's do this proper. This is
customary.

LAURA: It is proper. Wait. Okay. That's not his,
that is mine.

TALIESIN: (Grog voice) I would like to negotiate.

LAURA: Okay. Well that is good. He is really happy
that I am playing him,

because I rolled a one for Grog.

SAM: It might work.

(laughter)

LAURA: I think I should not-- okay. Wait!

MARY: Doesn't Grog get two actions or no?

LAURA: That's his action.

MATT: He is not putting up any aggressive action.

LAURA: Does he get advantage, however, because he
is speaking Giant and he's in the cold?

MATT: No.

(laughter)

MATT: Because you have an entire band of seemingly
advancing and armed individuals that are currently

stalking towards what appears to be the home of
these individuals. So unfortunately no. They seem

unfazed, and the one at the back seems almost
partially amused at this plea and you can see as

he takes his axe and puts it up against his
shoulder and runs it across the leather in a very

aggressive, intimidating fashion as he stalks
forward out of the forest.

LAURA: (Grog voice) Can Grog move at all?

MATT: Yeah, would you like Grog to move? It would
be easier.

LAURA: (Grog voice) Where is he?

MATT: He is right here. He is hard to miss. Where
would you like Grog to move?

There is a giant rock there.

LAURA: He is going to stay there.

MATT: Okay. Grog is going to stay up against the
rock. His axe across the front. Right, that ends

Grog's turn. Vex, you're up.

(laughter)

LAURA: A moment of silence for that horrible thing
I just witnessed.

MATT: You are over here. You just got up off the
ground after being slammed with a boulder, and you

have Trinket there.

LAURA: I am very hurt. Can I get up? Am I prone?

MATT: In the process you've gotten to your feet as
they lurched forward and began shouting at each

other about the intruders. So you are on your
feet.

LAURA: Okay. I am going to cast Hunter's Mark.

MATT: Hunter's Mark. On?

LAURA: On the one that took a little damage
already. And then I am going to shoot him. All

these are for like really large groups of people.
I am going to shoot him three times. Can I shoot

him three times?

MATT: You have two attacks.

LAURA: I'm going to shoot him two times. This was
good times. This was fun, you guys. 14 for that.

That probably doesn't hit. 14 also doesn't hit the
second time. Oh my god! What is happening?!

(laughter)

SAM: She just disappeared!

MARY: Vex! Vex, stay with us! Vex!

MATT: So as you get to your feet, you look over
your shoulder, you point your finger out and as

you squint down, you use your ranger focus to make
sure this guy is your quarry, and you take a quick

scope of his body parts. You're like, those are
the areas that will make him weakest. As you go to

pull your arrow, you can feel a kink in your
shoulder. The impact of the rock seems to have

affected you. You release the first arrow and it's
just slightly off mark. The second one you pull

back and as you release it, it actually splinters
off his shield as he knocks it out of the air.

LAURA: I am going to run over to cover. What is
that other side?

MATT: That is one of the mountain
outcroppings.

LAURA: Yeah, I am going to hide in that little
thing and go, Trinket hide with me.

MATT: Okay, Trinket moves up. (bear moan) All
right, and that's your turn.

LAURA: That's all of it.

MATT: (laughs) All right, Lyra, you're up.

FELICIA: Okay, I am freaked out right now. These
are very large individuals. I have only read about

them, and they smell slightly like feet. So I am
going to-- that is a stench. That is like an

athlete's foot commercial waiting to happen. So I
am going to take 10d6 and do Disintegrate.

MATT: Go for it.

FELICIA: I mean, it seems excessive, but they're
very large men! One, two, three, four, five-- That

one, he looks like a bull. In the nether-regions.

MATT: So which one, this one or this one?

FELICIA: I don't think I can reach that guy.

MATT: What's the distance on it?

FELICIA: Oh boy.

MATT: At your spell sheet.

FELICIA: I should've written that down.
Disintegrate. Oh, there it is! 60 feet.

MATT: 60 feet? Yeah, they're both within range.

FELICIA: Oh gosh, well I should probably hit the
wounded one. That always makes RPG sense, right?

MATT: So for that one, do you have to make an
actual spell attack roll?

FELICIA: No, I don't. I think it's force damage.

MATT: That's right. You just point at it and he
has to roll a saving throw.

FELICIA: Oh yay! Look at that! Six! Six! Six!

SAM: Well, don't say that.

(laughter)

MATT: All this time trying to fight the stigma of
DND, and there we go.

MARY: Talking to my people here!

FELICIA: All right. That's 20 plus-- now you're
all staring at me! 30, 40 points of damage!

SAM: Whoa!

MATT: That's a total of 40? Plus 40?

FELICIA: 40 plus 40.

MATT: Yeah, Disintegrate. And he failed his saving
throw.

TALIESIN: Yeah!

FELICIA: In your anus! That's what she yells,
she's like, in your anus!

MATT: So as she shouts, she points her finger out,
there's a little poof of arcane energy on her

finger, and a tiny, sickly green ray of energy
just streaks forth from her finger. The giant

looks at it awkwardly, and in the split second it
hits him in the front of his chest and suddenly

the armor in front of him turns to dust and you
can see his flesh beginning to just disappear in

front of him (gasps) and suddenly tries to gasp
for air, as you see part of its jaw beginning to

just turn to sand, and it's actually struggling in
a series of pain, and it's still standing, but you

can see a large part of its body now is just
missing. It looks like it got-- it's almost like a

portion of it rotted right before you, but there's
no actual necrosis. It's just gone. Flesh is

missing from a large part of its body. It looks
like it's doing really poorly. It lurches forward,

and one of its arms is not working as well and it
looks at you with a look of confusion, frustration

and "how could you?." It's incredulous in its
torturous pain.

FELICIA: And I go, (gibberish) in Giant and it's
the only thing I know in Giant, and I think it

says, you are my foe, and I actually say, my cat
is your friend.

MATT: Its head turns even further to the side as
the tongue lolls out of where the cheek once was.

FELICIA: Take that!

MATT: (chuckles) Its angry white eyes glaring
aggressively at you. Do you wish to move, or would

you like to stay where you are?

FELICIA: Oh, I think I'm going to duck behind that
little outcropping I have.

MATT: Over here?

FELICIA: Yeah, no, behind that little rock-- oh,
where am I? Oh, I'm over there. Yeah, I'm going to

get-- oh boy. Just stand there, I'm just too
flushed right now. I can't go anywhere. This is

too situational for me

MATT: All right. Well, (chuckles) this very
unhappy giant is going to reach over with his one

good arm, the other one's clutching the axe, it
reaches over and grabs another rock off the ground

that it can find nearby and (whoosh) flings it at
you.

FELICIA: I should have moved!

(laughter)

MATT: That is a 16. What's your armor class?

FELICIA: 13.

MATT: Yeah. You, unable to really move out of the
way, you look over and just watch it come toward

you as it slowly spins in the air. Time seems to
slow as you make no intent to shift out of the

way. (whack) It slams into you, physical pain not
hitting in as the immediate look of-- the sight of

white, your vision is knocked to nothingness
briefly. You end up taking--

MARY: No, Lyra, no.

MATT: Okay, you take 32 points of bludgeoning
damage.

FELICIA: Whoa! That is a very intense amount of
damage for a tiny woman. Okay.

LAURA: You should avoid those boulders in the
future.

MATT: And as soon as you recover from it, your
vision clarifies and you're able to see everything

before you, and you see that same giant is
stalking up, right into your face, with its axe in

its bad hand. It switches it into its good hand
and rears it up preparing itself for another

round. That ends that giant's turn. It's going to
go five, six and move in between the two of you.

You guys, Zahra and Scanlan, as you see this
happening you hear the (heavy steps) heavy

footfalls behind you, and you look over your
shoulder as the second giant comes up with the

shield in one arm. Axe is going to go ahead and
giant swing towards the two of you. That is going

to be a 19 to hit on you, Scanlan.

SAM: Oh yeah.

MATT: And Zahra, that is going to be a-- that's a
25. All right.

(laughter)

MATT: 27 points of slashing damage to you,
Scanlan. Ooh. All right. And that is 31 points of

slashing damage to you, Zahra. As it just (whack),
cleaves through the both of you. You are almost

knocked off your feet from the sheer blow. Most of
the armor takes the damage but you can feel a

heavy bruise, and underneath your armor you can feel a
little bit of the blood beginning to soak through

from the severe impact. Part of the armor plating
might have cut into part of your torso (grunts)

but you right yourself there. That ends their
turn. That brings us to Scanlan.

SAM: Okay. Hey, question. If I hold a turn, do I
hold the whole turn? Can I hold my action but do

the bonus action? How does it work?

MATT: You got to take all your turn at once. You
can hold your initiative. Meaning

you can wait to activate your
turn later in the tier, but you can't piecemeal

your actions.

SAM: Okay, then I am going to just move. I am
going to act. I am going to do things. So I turn

to the guy who just hit me, and I am going to cast
Dominate Person on him. I will sing some sort of

song to dominate him with.

MATT: I will say, Dominate Person is effective
against humanoids.

SAM: (gasps) Really?!

MATT: Dominate Monster would be--

SAM: They're not humanoid?

MATT: They are not. They are considered giants.
They are a different species.

You would know that.

SAM: I would know that. Well, then, I guess I
won't do that.

MATT: You turn, and your instinct is there, and
you're like, these are a little out of your reach

as far as that spell is concerned.

SAM: Okay.

(laughter)

MARY: It is a very short show tonight.

SAM: Yeah. Okay, well, then we just die.

(laughter)

MATT: You've got options!

SAM: Yeah, no, I have options. I'll be fine.
Should I go for the guy who-- I'll do (blows

raspberry). I'll cast Lightning Bolt on him. That's
always a good go-to.

MATT: So as you fumble with the idea of what spell
would work, you release a bolt of lightning up

towards it. It streaks into the front of its chest
and shoulder area. You can see its muscles tense

and shake from the sheer amount of electricity
that courses into it. It does not make that saving

throw, not with a five. So go ahead and roll your
damage.

SAM: Is it six or eight?

MATT: It's 8d6.

SAM: Thank you! Okay. Six, six, four. What is
that?

FELICIA: Six.

SAM: Oh, really? Oh, that's awesome! Now I lost
track. 32.

MATT: 32 points of damage. Nice! So as you release
the torrent of electrical energy, it courses

through the body and ends up streaking off into
the snowy, blizzardy sky behind the giant from the

upward angle. It (grunts) shakes from the impact,
and then rights itself and looks down at you with

a really angry face. You can see as it opens its
mouth, this light blue and dark teeth on the

bottom of its beard-covered jaw. Mist and steam
tend to pour out of its mouth. But not like heated

steam, this is like a cold air itself that it
seems to emanate from it. Its pale whitish-blue

hair, slightly framing its form. Up close, at its
sheer size, this is a very intimidating creature,

as it just stares down looming over you, now with
smoke pouring off its shoulder where you impacted

it with the Lightning Bolt. Do you want to do
any--

SAM: I would like to inspire our new fellow,
Zahra, with a quick little ditty. (singing) Ooh,

you so scary, ooh, you so scary, ooh, you so
scary. You fighty long time.

(laughter)

MATT: All right. So you go ahead and take a d10
inspiration dice. Which means, whenever you have

to roll an attack roll or saving throw, you can
add a d10 to the result you get if you don't think

it's going to make it.

You don't roll it now, but you just have it
on reserve whenever you want to use it.

MARY: Love it.

SAM: And if I move away from him he'll hit me?

MATT: He'll get an attack of opportunity, yes.

SAM: Can I snuggle between his legs and maybe
he'll forget I'm there?

FELICIA: He's hung like a horse.

TALIESIN: You're going to hit yourself in the
head

MARY: Swing on it, man. Swing on it.

(laughter)

MARY: Yes! Yes, Scanlan!

MATT: Do you want to try and do that?

SAM: It might anger him? Or it might entice him.

(laughter)

SAM: I'll just stay put.

MATT: All right. Zahra, you're up.

MARY: All right, I have a question. Do they
understand English?

MATT: You are not aware, actually.

LAURA: But he said intruder when we came in.

MATT: You heard him say it in Giant. It
was understood by Grog that it was intruder.

MARY: All right. They're both within about 30 feet
of me, yes?

MATT: Yes. They're both within 30 feet of you

MARY: All right! I'm going to use one of my skills
that I have which it doesn't expel a spell slot

and use Awakened Mind and touch them both with
telekinesis, and in doing so I shall cast Mass

Suggestion, and I shall say to them, you will take
us to your enemy, the white dragon, and there we

shall slay it together. Then you shall return us
here safely, where we shall part as friends bonded

forever in the slaying of a common enemy.

MATT: All right. As you're looking out at the two
of them, you release this energy, speaking through

your mind, reaching out to theirs. What is the DC of
your spell? It should be at the top of your spell

list, the difficulty class.

SAM: Spell save DC. Top right.

LAURA: Spell save DC is a 17.

MATT: 17, all right. So both of them seem to--

LAURA: Can you add your inspiration? Add your
inspiration!

MATT: Inspiration has to be added to a roll.

MARY: My charisma is added to any spell that I
cast.

MATT: Well, that's included with the DC there. So
both of them reach up and grab their faces, one

with its messed up, partially disintegrated hand
and falls back on its back foot and both of them

look at the group in confusion. There definitely
seems to be some sort of interference with their

current actions based on this spell; there is a
conflict within them. That's as much as I can tell

you right now at the moment. That's your action.
Do you want to do anything else? You can still

move. You still have a bonus action, if you want

MARY: What do you mean bonus action?

MATT: Your Hex is a bonus action, but that is a
spell, as well.

MARY: If I move away from them though...

LAURA: He can hit you.

TALIESIN: If he's going to hit you. He might not.

LAURA: That's true! Your spell might have worked.

MARY: I shall go and protect Scanlan, underneath
the legs of that giant.

MATT: So you move in to help defend Scanlan.

MARY: He's so tiny, I love little guys. I always
have.

SAM: She's a mother figure.

MATT: All right, so both of them seem to be
looking around themselves, slightly confused and

taking in some sort of strange circumstance.
Percy, you're up.

TALIESIN: I'm going to hold my turn.

MATT: Okay, Percy's holding initiative. Grog.

LAURA: Should I say, in Giant, (in Grog voice)
What say you? Let's fight this bastard. Together.

MATT: All right, they look at Grog, confused. Look
at each other again. That's Grog's turn, Vex?

LAURA: Seriously? While everybody's having a
conversation, I would like to take

a healing potion.

MATT: All right. Go ahead and take one of those

LAURA: Okay. How much do I take for a superior?

MATT: Superior? Superior is 8d4 plus eight. It's
quite a bit.

LAURA: It is, so just regular healing potion for
now. Which is what, 2d8?

MATT: A regular is 2d4 plus two.

LAURA: Yay! That's good.

MATT: Lyra.

FELICIA: I'm confused. But I do not feel good; I
might throw up. So I'm going to hold my turn to

see what happens.

MATT: Go ahead and make a constitution saving
throw.

FELICIA: Oh, good.

SAM: Oh, for the barf.

FELICIA: Oh, it's a five! Constitution five. It's
a ten.

MATT: You covertly do your best to not reveal to
the entire group that you make a little

greenish-brown snow.

(laughter)

MATT: It is the most adorable barfing sound you
guys have ever heard, though. The combination of

the stress and the smell, it's been a harrowing
experience for Lyra in these past few minutes. At

this point in time, as it comes to the giants'
turn. The one who is messed up looks over to the

other and (sighs) puts the axe into his belt loop,
and the other also one puts its axe in the belt

loop, and they glare at the rest of the group, and
say in Giant, (gibberish). And any of you speak

Giant? Or just Grog.

LAURA: Grog.

MATT: Grog translates. Essentially, they say, "We
will take you but it is at your own folly."

LAURA: (in Grog voice) They'll take us, but it is
at our own folly.

SAM: Take us as in-- Grog, can you ask them, take
us as in lead us or on their back?

LAURA: (strangled gibberish) Which translates to,
take us as in lead us or carry us on your back?

MATT: They both chuckle to themselves, and they
start walking in towards the cavern.

LAURA: Wait! Can we rest a little before we go
fight this thing so we can get spell slots back

and heal?

MATT: That's up to you guys.

LAURA: Can we? Yes! Yes!

FELICIA: Up to 24 hours. This one lasts the whole
day. Yeah, can we?

MATT: It lasts for 24 hours.

MARY: Mass Suggestion lasts for 24 hours.

SAM: Oh, that is good information.

MARY: Oh and very important: none of us can damage
these two giants. Anything else can, we're fine,

but should any of us damage it, the spell is
poof.

LAURA: Are they going to fight with us? Grog? Will
you ask them if they're going to fight with us?

(gibberish)

MATT: How does it go, again?

LAURA: (repeats previous gibberish)

MATT: Right. One of them looks over the shoulder as
it's walking into the cavern and puts its hand on

the top and leans over and its voice, and I will
say from this point forth it is translated to make

it easier.

SAM: Just like in Hunt for Red October?

MATT: Yeah basically. "We take you but that is as
much as you get. The rest is your own choice.

"Perhaps the dragon will eat you. That'll keep it
satiated for a while."

It steps inside the cavern.

LAURA: (Grog voice) I think that's a no.

FELICIA: Yeah. And I say (speaks gibberish). My
cat is your friend!

TALIESIN: Bless you!

MATT: (laughs) As you say that, one walks inside.
The one that you partially disintegrated earlier

steps out and goes, (spitting noise) and spits a--
what in midair looks like liquid and then

(shattering) shatters into almost like crystalline
ice as it hits the ground on a rock.

FELICIA: It is just rude. He smells so much like
feet.

SAM: We'll Mass Suggest that they take a bath
later.

TALIESIN: Let's take a breather. For a moment,
collect ourselves.

LAURA: I wish I wouldn't have wasted a healing
potion just then because we can take some--

FELICIA: We can heal our 1d6 plus three.

MATT: So as you guys step inside the cavern. You
guys are taking a short rest, currently?

SAM: Short rest.

MATT: All right, so the giants are just sitting
there waiting, arms crossed against the wall,

talking quietly to each other as the rest of you
sit down and bandage your wounds. You tend to your

adrenaline as it slowly wears off and suddenly the
pain starts to set in from some of the wounds

you've taken. So you guys can use as many hit dice
as you want to heal yourselves.

MARY: So what do I do?

LAURA: You roll a d8. You can roll up to 11d8,
plus two for each time.

SAM: Hey, DM.

MATT: Yes?

SAM: How many hit points do I have?

MATT: You haven't taken damage at this point.

SAM: Have they increased at all?

MATT: That is true. You leveled up after the last
one. So with this short rest I will say go ahead

and roll an additional-- for a bard I think it is
a d8, correct?

SAM: I don't know.

MATT: What's your hit dice number?

SAM: d8.

MATT: And what's your constitution?

SAM: 15. Plus two.

MATT: All right, so go ahead and roll a d8 plus
two to it

SAM: Four.

MATT: All right, so you add four hit points to
your total hit point maximum.

Welcome to level 11, Scanlan.

(cheering and singing Super Mario victory ditty)

MATT: You also get access to your first 6th-level
spell.

MARY: What!?

LAURA: What? Get some stuff before we fight a
dragon, yo.

SAM: I got it already. I am ready to rock.

MATT: Good. Good choice. You take the next half an
hour or so to rest up. You still used your

Disintegrate. You need to do a whole night's rest
to get that back.

FELICIA: Oh! I don't get it? It's six spell
levels.

MATT: It is six spell levels you can get back on a
short rest?

FELICIA: Short rest. Recover six spell levels
because I have arcane recovery. So I can actually

get that back

MATT: (singing) Wizards are awesome!

LAURA: (Grog voice) Grog would like to take his
Chain of Returning off of one of the axes he had

it on and put onto the Firebrand Warhammer that he
took off of that dwarf in Kraghammer.

MATT: All righty, I like it.

LAURA: The mean guy he took it off.

MATT: Off of, that was King Murghol, I think,
wasn't it? The duergar king you fought in the

Underdark.

MARY: I have a question. So I rolled to get my
health back and I got more hit points than I had

before--

MATT: You can't go more than your maximum. You're
at full hit points now.

TALIESIN: I want to borrow Grog for just a second
and ask these two if they've encountered the

dragon before, and what its disposition is.
Anything we should know.

MATT: I want you to go ahead, and I will say
through Grog-- this is going to be interesting.

Since Grog is translating, I'm going to go ahead
and have you roll a persuasion check.

FELICIA: Wrong dice! Why did you use that dice?

TALIESIN: I was feeling weak. Ten.

MATT: Ten. And I want you to roll a persuasion
check for Grog with disadvantage.

LAURA: Great. Oh, that was a good roll, come on
also good roll.

FELICIA: It wasn't a good roll. I see a face
there.

TALIESIN: It was a one, wasn't it?

LAURA: It was a one.

MATT: All the crits were last week.

TALIESIN: This is my fault. This is all my fault.

FELICIA: You are a plague. Your good fortune is a
plague upon your friends.

LAURA: Travis is going to be so pissed when he
gets here.

MATT: I know.

SAM: He'll be dead by the time he gets here

LAURA: His flight landed. I got a text. His flight
has landed. He's on his way.

MATT: Great, awesome. As Grog finishes translating
(gibberish) to the giants, the giants chuckle to

themselves and the other one says down to him,
what he translates for you, the equivalent of,

"There's no help here. They killed our people, but
we're alive because we serve it. We'll bring you,

"like we promised, like we brought all the
others."

LAURA: They serve the dragon?

FELICIA: Can we look around? Are there any dragon
tips around?

MATT: You took a rest inside the cavern as you
just entered the mountain and at this point as you

guys step up the giants are leading you further
into the cavern.

MARY: May I talk to him, as well?

MATT: You know Giant?

MARY: No, through Grog. I have telekinesis, so can
I speak to one of them?

MATT: Well, telekinesis and telepathy are
different things.

MARY: Oh, I mean, I have Awakened Mind.

MATT: Oh right. So you can speak directly to their
minds

MARY: Yes. Your people have been persecuted for so
long, and you have lost so many of the female

version of you, and your children, and you serve
them now. Do you want to live as slaves?

MATT: "We want to live."

MARY: So to live as a slave is better than--

MATT: "To not live at all?"

MARY: We are offering you the opportunity to stop
your servitude. To end it forever.

MATT: (grunts) They keep walking

LAURA: What?

MATT: We'll see how this plays out. This is a
process here. You guys heavily failed some early

persuasion rolls here, they're in a very negative
position with you right now.

LAURA: Sorry about that.

FELICIA: Let's not bring it up again. I love your
hair.

SAM: It's really cool.

MATT: So about 200 feet further into this cavern,
the tunnel opens up into a gargantuan natural rock

chamber, coated in ice crystals across the
entirety of the rounded crag in the ceiling. You

can see now as the light you're bringing into-- by
the way, is anyone bringing a source of light

other than the torchlight?

LAURA: Yes, Grog lights his blazing axe.

MARY: And I cast Light on my dark dragon staff.

MATT: All right, so between the (whoosh) now the
fire that is now burning off of the warhammer and

your Light spell, you can see as you enter
following these giants, there are definitely the

remnants of a village here, a village that
was designed on the scale of these giants and

while many of these structures still stand, it is
eerily quiet as you step inside. As you begin to

step further into the center of this cavern, you
see many of these structures have been smashed and

destroyed and there is a layer of ice and snow
that has been carried in from various blizzard

winds or just the internal temperature in this
room. And the room is extremely cold. With the

little bit of light you have, everyone's breath is
very clearly visible with each puff into the air

around, and you swear that in a few pockets here it is
so cold that you can hear the moisture from your

breath coalesce and then shatter on the ground.
You all bundle up even tighter

with your various furs.

LAURA: I snuggle very close to Trinket.

MATT: Trinket snuggles very close to you because
Trinket, while made for this type of temperature,

is still uncomfortably cold, even at this point.

SAM: Did Lyra give me--

FELICIA: I did! I gave you my stone. My
Transmutation Stone, which helps you resist cold.

SAM: Wow, I feel so warm and cuddly.

FELICIA: Well, don't brag about it. Oh my gosh, my
mom told me never bring-- well, she's dead, but

before she died, she told me if you can't bring
one for everybody, don't bring any. So just be

quiet about it.

SAM: Okay. I'm sorry. I was just distracted
because we're in a dire situation and I miss the

love of my life, Pike. I'm sure you can't identify
with that.

FELICIA: Oh no! I was just thinking the other day,
just outside the cavern, if Aldor was here--

SAM: Aldor?

FELICIA: Yes! Did I tell you about him?

SAM: A little.

FELICIA: He smells like sandalwood and
dismissiveness, but that's okay.

We'll get over that.

SAM: Well, we have something in common then and
thank you for your stone of warmth

or whatever it was.

FELICIA: It's a cold resistance.

SAM: I'll just call it a stone of warmth.

MATT: There is no character class more dangerous
in DND than mother.

(laughter)

MATT: Do not have children if you are ever in a
fantasy genre or anything.

You ain't getting past 30.

MARY: May I again, sorry, use Awakened Mind to ask
the giant what happened here?

MATT: As they begin walking through and looking
about, one of them starts giving you these images,

and it's less of a language and it's more of a
series of memories. And you see visions of a time

not long ago. Months, even years. This relatively
thriving village of frost giants that had

essentially claimed this mountain as their own
for generations. Hunting in the nearby Vesper

Timberland, occasionally harrowing the traveling
merchant band heading up the Glasswalk Path or

various other entities that live in this forest.
They're not by any means a good people. They exist

and they take what they want, but it appears that
not long ago this dragon decided that it wanted to

live here instead. And you see visions of it
stalking through the tunnels, carving its way

through the ice and ambushing this frost giant
village. You see visions of it tearing into

families of them and freezing them on the spot,
which is interesting because you see, these giants

seem pretty well-adapted to ice and cold
weather. It seems it is less of a freezing them

physically and more of locking them into place.
And as you see these visions, you begin to step

further into this village and you can see there
are spires, large spires of crystallized ice, and

loosely within the shadows of the ice you can see
what looks like the suffocated forms of frost

giants that are locked in that position under many
feet of ice. You see most of this village brought

to its knees and destroyed, murdered, eaten, or
imprisoned and these two, essentially chosen to

survive and given the order to bring what this
creature wants.

MARY: There's only two of you left?

MATT: You get this sense of sadness and fear, but
also a sense of a lack of any other option.

MARY: Oh, how I wish we could release you from
these bonds.

LAURA: Is there a way to, like, melt the spires?
(whispers) I interrupted you.

MARY: To release them.

FELICIA: They are dead in there though, right?

MARY: No, I know but at least maybe they could--
Do you have some burial ritual or anything that

you would like to or do these stand as a painful
remembrance for you?

MATT: There is a moment where it seems almost like
it's going to answer, and then the mind closes off

suddenly. There is a defensiveness and these
entities, you get the sense that even this

tenuous relationship you have built with them is
based purely on arcane persuasion, and the more

you pry, the more you begin to test the boundaries
of what you have done. Pick and choose your words

very carefully.

MARY: Zahra sheds a tear, which freezes instantly
on her face, and her internal flame melts it off.

LAURA: That's pretty badass.

MATT: As you continue to walk, you can see the center
of this village is completely in tatters. A lot of

the wood and the dried brush and the furs and
thick leathers that these giants had gathered and

constructed their civilization out of is all just
shattered and rended to the floor and then

frozen over, left in this weird picturesque,
almost a tapestry. A frozen moment in time of

utter desolation. Actually, I want you to all to
roll a perception check, if you could.

TALIESIN: 17.

FELICIA: 14.

SAM: 20.

LAURA: Oh! No we're not in-- 14.

MARY: Uno.

MATT: Wow, getting the ones out. So as you guys
are walking forward, Scanlan, you notice that

there is, just outside the light perception
stepping forward, a lot of the rubble has been

pushed and coalesced into a central monolith.
Almost like a 25, 30 foot sculpture of chaos. All

of these things have been matted together with
what looks like mud and refuse, and as you guys

begin to notice this, too, you catch the framing
of the light on it and it seems to be built into

almost an altar or a large sculpture of worship of
a winged dragon creature that is currently in the

process of swooping down. You get the sensation
that this was built as, essentially, a place of

offering to this white dragon, and hopefully a
symbol to keep themselves alive and to prove their

fealty to this entity.

FELICIA: I have a spell called Legend Lore. Can I
cast that on white dragon?

MATT: Let's see what Legend Lore does.

FELICIA: The spell brings to your mind a brief
summary of the significant lore about the thing

you named: current tales, forgotten stories,
secret lore that has never been widely known. If

it is not of legendary importance, you gain no
information. Would I think that this is a

legendary dragon?

MATT: Okay. As you take a moment and everyone stops
to look around, you notice that Lyra is sitting there

currently muttering to herself and putting her
fingers through the air, and you can see these

small arcane sigils begin to flash in the air
where she places her hands, at which point her eyes

glaze over with this shimmering gold energy and
she seems to go into a trance. Now, what you first

are hit with is the image of darkness, black and
struggle, a struggle to push, a struggle to exist,

a struggle to survive, and then suddenly light.
You see the cracking of something releasing, and

from there pulling forth from this singular egg,
the only one left of its clutch, a white dragon

wyrmling pulling itself out of the egg. This, you
immediately sense, is the dragon that now resides

within this mountain.

You begin to see flashes in time of it struggling
to survive in the frozen tundra to the north,

desperately trying to escape poachers and
individuals trying to hunt it, whether to protect

their own villages or to use its physical body
parts in some sort of sale. You get the sense that

at one point it was already the target of some
contract that failed. For a brief second, you see

a flash of a frozen cavern recently, and a few
individuals locked in an icy prison bitten down on

and shattered before it cuts to black again. You
begin to see moments of this dragon growing, and

with each stage in its physical transformation
towards becoming a full-fledged adult dragon there

is just spite, there is anger, there is ego, there
is a severe sense of self-importance, a lust for

others to bow before, serve, or feed it. And you
have heard and you have read many things about

dragons and you have heard things of great
intelligence and articulate entities that even,

good or evil themselves, have this extremely
intelligent presence. This dragon is far more

feral and bestial than anything you've read about.
It has an intelligence, but it seems to not be

concerned with the intricacies of conversation as
much as it is to bend everything to its will and

to give (voices deepens) to me. (normally) And the
one thing that catches your mind before the spell

ends is the name that it finally came upon itself,
the name that it heard whispered as one of its

would-be hunters was suddenly--

SAM: Jeff.

(laughter)

MATT: Jeff the dragon. The name Rimefang rings
through your mind.

FELICIA: His name is Rimefang.

MATT: The two frost giants stop their walking and
turn. "Rimefang." They nod and look up to the

giant structure they constructed.

FELICIA: Oh wow! Can I make a history to sww if I know
anyone in the guild who has been named Rimefang?

MATT: Make a history check on this.

FELICIA: It's a 21.

MATT: Okay, Rimefang, you gather, is the name of
the dragon proper. And there's another drink for

you guys out there. They made fun of me for using
the word proper.

SAM: Drink!

MATT: This dragon took the name Rimefang. Because
in a lot of dragons as they evolve and begin to

really create a lair, they really make themselves
known publicly and really draw the fear out once

they feel they're in a comfortable position. You
feel this dragon is just starting to get to that

point where it's eager to drive fear into the
local populace. From your history check, you do

know that there is, somewhere in the books you've
gone through, a similar contract, nothing Rimefang

related, but there was a white dragon that was
supposedly hunted about eight, nine months back,

and the team never returned. And you begin to
think, "Wait, so if a team of really practiced

"people never returned from this contract, and we
were sent on this as an entry level..."

FELICIA: Hey, guys? I have a suspicion that maybe
the guild didn't want us to succeed. And I don't

want to panic anybody. I just don't think
Vanessa--

MARY: Lyra, do you have any enemies in the guild?

FELICIA: Well. Everyone seems to be very-- I make
a very good soup and I help people with their

laundry sometimes and--

LAURA: Oh, are you like an assistant?

FELICIA: No, I'm a guild member, I just like to be
helpful. Like you guys.

LAURA: I was just wondering.

FELICIA: Well, they just don't send me anywhere.
It's a paperwork thing.

MARY: If you don't mind my asking because I do
respect you so much, how did your captainship of

our crew come about?

FELICIA: Well, I got a missive, I got a scroll in
my room and the first assignment. I mean, it was

very exciting to me and they haven't really paid
attention to me. Mertin is very nice to me but

Vanessa-- she just has her days, and I've been
asking her for so long, and finally I got my

assignment. I was hoping Aldor would be here, but
he isn't, and that's fine. It'll be the next one.

But there may not be a next one, guys. That's what
I'm saying.

MARY: Oh, were you Vanessa's assistant? I mean,
before you were a member?

FELICIA: No. Aldor. I'm here with Aldor,
remember?

SAM: If you think we've been sent on some sort of
suicide mission--

FELICIA: Oh, that's good, the way you put it
there!

SAM: Well, I'm a master of words. Should we
abandon all hope and just flee? Is that what

you're suggesting as our leader? Or should we
carry it through and prove everyone wrong?

FELICIA: If we abandon this quest, then we never--
I could get kicked out of the guild, for one.

LAURA: What happens if the contract that we
magically signed doesn't ever come to fruition?

FELICIA: It's not good.Â Let me think.

SAM: You know what? Retrace your steps.

MATT: There you go. In Memento fashion, all these
things flash through. If a contract is broken,

one: if you're a member of the guild, you're
kicked out of the guild. Two: you guys are on

this essentially as a trial basis to prevent
being arrested and put on trial for breaking

the laws of the city of Vasselheim and essentially
hunting creatures that aren't sanctified. Or you

yourself have not been sanctified to kill, which
goes against guild rules and the city itself.

Which means if you were to not succeed at the
contract, you would probably be put on trial at the

seat of judgment.

LAURA: Percy is very good at lawyering.

TALIESIN: I am. I lawyer quite well, but the hope
is that we wouldn't actually break the contract in

the first place, because that's complicated.

MARY: I wasn't part of this band of breaking the
law. I'm here to gain entry into this guild.

FELICIA: Well, you certainly won't get into the
guild if you break the contract.

MARY: No, I completely understand, but I won't be
brought to trial. Not that I'm all, "well it's all

about me," but I'm serious. That's why I'm here!
My motivations are not to save my ass, my

motivations are to get into this bloody guild!

TALIESIN: We're not here based on other people's
expectations. We're here because we thought we

could handle this and nothing has changed. This
changes nothing!

LAURA: We are very capable fighters!

MARY: I've seen this. You have proven yourselves
already. Those orcs didn't stand a bloody chance.

TALIESIN: Thank you.

FELICIA: So we go?

SAM: We go. Well actually, Grog-- could someone
ask Ace and Gary if we're there or if we have

further to travel?

FELICIA: We'll just keep going.

MATT: As Grog mentions this, you guys have moved
past most of the village, and you've gone towards

the back of this large chamber, and you do see
what appears to be a tunnel that ascends upwards,

deeper into the mountain proper. See, did it
again. It's made me all self-conscious. But the

entrance is entirely frozen. There is a wall of
solid ice between yourselves and the continuation

of this tunnel.

LAURA: (Grog voice) How thick is it?

MATT: It's hard to see how thick it is from this
side.

LAURA: (Grog voice) Can Grog run at it and try to
bash it really fast?

MATT: So as you guys step up, Grog runs ahead of
the rest of the giants and goes as hard as he can

towards this. (laughs) So swinging with the axe
towards the ice. Go ahead and

make an attack roll.

LAURA: It's a hammer, which I feel would be better
against ice.

MATT: This giant flaming warhammer from King
Murghol.

LAURA: I feel like every dice is betraying me.

TALIESIN: Would you like to use mine?

LAURA: No, I'm going to curse yours.

MATT: No, turn it around. Shake the Wil Wheaton
curse.

LAURA: I'll just leave it at that. It slipped out
of my hands, but I'm going to keep it. 15 plus

what, eight? Plus nine?

MATT: Plus nine. That'll definitely hit. Go ahead
and roll damage for that.

LAURA: Okay. Here we go.

SAM: I hope he can hit a wall.

LAURA: I don't know, with my ones as of late. Oh,
that's just ten.

MATT: Ten damage? Including the fire damage?

LAURA: Oh, yes, right. 13.

MATT: 13 damage. (whack) The warhammer streaks
through, the light causing this interesting

shifting of the radius around it. As it smacks
into the ice with this resounding (thwack) sound,

the ice shakes and shimmers. A giant crack forms
up the front of it, and you can see as he (grunts)

pulls it out, the wall itself seems to have
largely crumbled in the small space there and

looks very fragile. But it's definitely left an
impact on the wall.

TALIESIN: I can make an attempt at this. I'm going
to walk over and study the shattering position and

see if I can find the weak point in the wall.

MATT: Okay. Go ahead and make an investigation
check.

TALIESIN: Seven. Getting it all out of my system
now.

MATT: The ice wall itself is not a specific
architectural structure. It is made of some sort

of blasting of ice that froze the air in that way,
so it doesn't have any real geometric positioning,

but the ice structure itself, you're unable to
make out what would be a weak point or not, other

than the place of impact where Grog placed the
hammer.

TALIESIN: I'm going to take a musket ball, go over
to the very center of the crack.

LAURA: Should we keep a little more quiet than
that?

FELICIA: Can I use a Fire Bolt? That would be
good, a Fire Bolt.

TALIESIN: Let's save the Fire Bolt.

FELICIA: No, it's a cantrip. Is that okay?

TALIESIN: I'm backing up.

FELICIA: I'm the leader. I'm going to say I'm
going to.

TALIESIN: She said, Fire Bolt. I backed away.

FELICIA: And that is 1d8 fire damage, which is
seven. Seven fire damage.

MATT: All right. Go ahead and roll to see if you
hit with it. So roll and add your spell attack

modifier.

FELICIA: What is that? Oh, it's 12... plus 11. So
that is 23.

MATT: All right, that definitely hits. How much
damage? That was seven fire damage, you said?

FELICIA: Oh, it's 3d10 fire. Sorry. Because of my
level. Which is seven and five and seven is 19.

MATT: Clutching your staff at one side, the book's
under your shoulder, you bring your hand out and

withdraw your hand with the force of the blast of
the Fire Bolt going forward. As it smacks into the

section where Grog had slammed the hammer, (boof)
it bursts as a flash of arcane reddish fiery

energy, and the wall itself shatters inward and
starts falling and crumbling nearby. Now, this

tall wall, which was about 25 feet tall, begins to
fall in giant chunks.

FELICIA: (yelps) Sorry!

MATT: I'm going to go ahead and have Lyra and
Percy and Grog all make dexterity saving throws.

FELICIA: Oh, I'm so good at that, with the
negatives. Oh!

LAURA: 19!

TALIESIN: I can't use acrobatics?

MATT: No, not for this.

LAURA: 21 for Grog.

FELICIA: I rolled a zero, because I've got a
negative two. It's not even on the dice!

MATT: Percy?

TALIESIN: Nine.

MATT: All right, so.

FELICIA: Is that worse than a critical fail?

MATT: As the whole wall just (shattering noise)
breaking and falling down around you, you all go

rushing backward. Grog, strangely and
unexpectedly, shoulder-rolls out of the way, epic

Geordi La Forge style. Escapes the crumbling wall.
Unfortunately, though, Lyra and Percy stumble

backward, slipping on the ice that's actually
coated the floor of this cavern, and get impacted

with part of the fall. It's not too bad, but both
of you suffer 14 points of cold damage and

bludgeoning. Cold and bludgeoning, as the wall
comes tumbling down on you. However, the rest of

the cavern now lies open with pieces of jagged ice
almost like a broken glass window itself framing

the exterior of this tunnel.

FELICIA: I'm not going to go to the front anymore,
guys.

SAM: Well, you're the leader, shouldn't you be--

LAURA: We should protect her. She should be
towards the back.

TALIESIN: I'm going to heal really quickly.

MATT: Take another short rest?

LAURA: We should take a short rest so that we're
going in, you know.

FELICIA: Yeah. I had scoliosis as a child. I'm not
nimble. It's funny.

MARY: Before we take a short rest may I, again,
use Awakened Mind, just to see

how far away we are.

MATT: You get an image of a slowly ascending and
spiraling tunnel that ascends towards an upper

cavern at the top of the mountain. The upper
cavern you only get a few glimpses of as they

themselves have only had a few glimpses of it, but
it appears this is not the only

obstacle in the way.

MARY: Oh, good.

SAM: Let's carry on then.

LAURA: Could you see when you were looking into
their mind if it is open or if it is just a big

cavern?

MARY: I could not see.

MATT: From the best vantage point you could see,
it was a chamber about, I'd say 80 to 85 feet to

the ceiling, lined with jagged ice crystals that 
are coalesced in a temperature so cold that it's

almost like the inside of a geode, but it's all
made of ice. But you see multiple platforms that

are risen in the walls of this, and in the center,
there is a singular platform, and there sitting on

the top of it is apparently the dragon quarry you
seek. And then the image shuts itself out, as one

of them glances over the shoulder. It's growing
uncomfortable with sharing information.

MARY: Got it. I thank him in my mind.

MATT: All right. Pressing forward, you can see one
giant still dragging itself forward with a portion

of its physical body essentially gutted.

MARY: What if we gave him a half healing potion?

SAM: Don't mess with the magic.

LAURA: Because, here's the thing. If they fight
with us, it's great, but if they turn on us then

we are going to have to fight them at full power
again.

MARY: Yeah, but we have 24 hours.

SAM: Yes, but the healing potion might do
something. Let's just keep going. You are a very

kind soul.

MATT: So are you guys taking a short rest to heal
up? Okay. If you haven't already rolled your

dice-- You healed up now? Perfect. All right, so
as you guys continue to trudge up this extremely

cold-- let me see. I think it'll be a fun one
to-- There we go. You guys continue to ascend up

this pitch-black cavern here. It appears that both
the giants and the dragon do not need light to

make their way through this cavern structure. So
you are the small beads of visual lightness in the

entire structure. The floor itself is slick, and
there are bits of rough rock that you can find

foot purchase but there are a few moments where 
some of you slip and you lose about ten feet and

then catch yourself and have to move upward with
this slight 35-degree incline, slowly spiraling

upward. You push forward for about 30 minutes or
so in this long, seemingly-- for lack of a better

term, there isn't a lot of changed variation to it;
it's just a gradual spiral in itself.

LAURA: I want to keep perception out to make sure
that nothing is ahead of us.

MATT: Go ahead and roll a perception check.

LAURA: Okay, but this is pertaining to dragons. He
is one of my favored enemies, so I have

additional bonuses to tracking him and insight
against him. Favored enemies!

MATT: All right. So you're perceiving anything
dragon-related and things that would be a

forewarning of a dragon, okay.

LAURA: Things he would have laid down for us.
Stuff like that.

MATT: Okay. Go ahead and roll again. You have an
advantage.

LAURA: You know, just to see. Okay. 18?

MATT: Okay. Glancing about, you do see there are
claw marks along the walls, you can see where

portions of this cavern were carved out by the
claws of Rimefang. You can see that occasionally

there are pieces of frozen rock that are solid
ice, some that appear to be an unthawed chunk of

flesh of some kind. As you push further up this
cavern, you spot what looks like the lower half of

a statue.

FELICIA: Ugh. That's a-- oh my god.

TALIESIN: That's unpleasant.

LAURA: Half of a giant, right?

MATT: This appears to be a frost giant that met
its end. The actual lower half of the torso itself

is giving off a stench of slowly rotting flesh.
There is ice encasing the lower half of it. It's

interesting because the physical form of the frost
giants resist cold naturally, and this temperature

would normally freeze any other flesh completely
solid. Here, it naturally decays. But there is a

distinct place where the torso was removed
forcibly by what looks like a series of daggers

and/or dragon's teeth.

FELICIA: I have little ginger chews, if anybody
wants one.

TALIESIN: I'll take one.

FELICIA: Here you go. Thank you. Just in my little
pack here.

MATT: About ten more minutes of walking, you come
upon another frozen wall barrier.

SAM: I will check it for traps!

MATT: Go ahead and roll perception.

LAURA: (laughs) Thanks, brother.

SAM: Five.

MATT: As far as you can tell, it is a
frost/snow-covered ground with walls and a

ceiling.

SAM: Everyone. There are definitely no traps
here.

LAURA: Oh, good. Maybe we should stay back?

FELICIA: Maybe I could do the Fire Bolt from afar.
That's a good idea, and a leader idea that I had

that you just reminded me of.

LAURA: Good thinking, Lyra.

FELICIA: Thank you. Oh, that definitely hits.
That's 28.

MATT: 28. Go ahead and roll damage.

FELICIA: It's a nine and a ten and five. 24.

MATT: 24. So as you focus, close one eye, and aim,
you release a secondary Fire Bolt. (boosh) It

slams into the front of the wall of ice, which
immediately bursts inside. Shattered shards of

glass-like ice go flying further up the cavern.
The rest of it falls and collapses at a distance,

(crashing) around you. Thankfully, you're all far
enough away where there isn't an issue, and the

wall seems to have shattered.

FELICIA: That's the way you do it! Thank you. Oh
my gosh, you guys.

LAURA: Before we move forward, I've studied
dragons a lot. I just want to say. So obviously we

all know they're susceptible to fire damage, yes?
This is an ice-breathing bastard. Do as much fire

attacks as we can.

MARY: Yes. Don't dragons love, especially white
ones, shiny, sparkly things? Especially gems, from

what I've gleaned over the years.

LAURA: If he could be distracted during combat,
maybe.

FELICIA: A very aggressive person. I got a glimpse
of his attitude, and it is not pleasant.

LAURA: Not happy.

FELICIA: No. He is full of bile and vitriol, and
he likes to be worshiped. We could pretend to be

worshiping him.

LAURA: But he'll still want to eat us. But yes, we
could do that.

FELICIA: I mean, he didn't eat these two guys!

LAURA: It might be something to think about.

FELICIA: At least to get close to him.

LAURA: Before we spring an attack, yes.

MATT: Go ahead and make an intelligence check.

LAURA: With advantage because it's pertaining to
dragons?

SAM: (laughs) She's a stickler.

LAURA: Is that an insight check?

MATT: That's just adding your intelligence
modifier.

LAURA: Okay, let me see what that-- oh, that's
Grog's. What am I doing? Okay, so 20 was the first

roll. 20 is the high roll. Oh, wait! No! 22.

MATT: 22. Okay. A few things you do know about
dragons, specifically a white dragon, from your

studying. You lost someone very important to you,
supposedly to a dragon, and so you've spent a lot

of your life focused on their techniques, their
abilities, how they work. White dragons, you know,

have complete immunity to cold. Cold damage of all
sorts has no effect on them whatsoever. You know

that they have capability of flight. They surround
themselves with ice but are not hindered by it

whatsoever. You do know that their claws and teeth
are extremely dangerous. They themselves also,

using their wings and tail, become a fierce entity
from all sides. Its cold breath is extremely

dangerous. It can affect a large area, and even
its presence is frightful enough to where some of

the most seasoned adventurers go running, fleeing,
or cowering in a corner. Let alone encountering

one in its lair, itself, it already has an
advantage, as it sets an environment to put it at

its advantage. So anything and everything you can
do to prepare and be ready for such an encounter

would be highly recommended. You do get the
sensation that even though they are cold-based,

fire doesn't necessarily do any additional damage,
but it is not reduced or able to resist it.

LAURA: It can't resist fire. What about lightning
damage? Do I know anything about that?

MATT: Best that you know, most magics and other
types of damage other than cold have an effect on

it, though it does have unnatural resilience to
spells and things for a large part of the combat.

FELICIA: I can cast Stoneskin on one person. Or up
to, actually-- I could cast Stoneskin

up to three times.

MATT: But it's a concentration spell, so you can
only have it up on one person.

FELICIA: I can only have it on one person at a
time. So who would be most likely to resist

slashing and bludgeoning and piercing?

LAURA: Probably Grog. He's going to be the one
that's going to be up close, out of all of us.

MATT: As Grog says, "That's all right. If I'm
raging, I already have the ability to resist."

LAURA: That's true. He takes half to piercing and
slashing.

FELICIA: Oh, okay. So then we need the other
person who might be within range.

TALIESIN, LAURA, and MARY: Trinket.

SAM: Trinket's here?

(laughter)

MATT: As you look over. (sad bear moan)

LAURA: Trinket's right there, Scanlan.

FELICIA: I don't want to demean him, but his
performance is--

LAURA: Lyra!

FELICIA: I love him. Of course he gets the spell.

LAURA: He is really, really cool!

SAM: He does things!

FELICIA: Yes, of course, I don't know what I was
thinking.

LAURA: Here's the thing. If he doesn't have
Stoneskin, I probably won't let him charge.

TALIESIN: But if he does have Stoneskin, will you
let him charge?

LAURA: Probably.

FELICIA: All right, well, that could be another--
Does that seem like a good idea for a bear?

MARY: Scanlan, are most of your attacks up close
or are they far?

SAM: I've got a wide range. I like to keep people
guessing. It's my thing.

FELICIA: But we wouldn't really want you within
claw damage.

SAM: I wouldn't want that, either.

FELICIA: It does make more-- I don't mean to
demean Trinket, he is a lovely bear.

SAM: Of all the bears I've known, he's top five.
Top five.

MATT: As you're saying this, Trinket senses the
conversation and plants both feet in the ground

(growls).

LAURA: See how tough he is?

MATT: He seems to be showing off. And for a
moment, even though it's a conversation, that's a

dangerous-looking bear.

MARY: I use Beast Speak on Trinket. And say,
Trinket, what are you feeling right now? What's

going on? You seem very excited.

MATT: Okay, you notice Zahra leans forward and
starts giving this series of low, guttural sounds.

It's weird. There's this weird arcane interference
and this strange, almost like the sound itself is

being muffled and stretched. And Trinket turns to
her and starts giving the same noises back.

Trinket says to you, essentially, "I'll do
whatever it takes to protect my Vex. If this

"creature tries anything, I will tear its throat
from its head."

FELICIA: He's a sexier bear than I thought he
was.

LAURA: And he gives good massages, Lyra.

FELICIA: Okay. So I will cast Stoneskin. It lasts
an hour, so I'll cast it within the perimeter that

we think we're going to get hit.

LAURA: Tell him that I love him very much!

MARY: I also want to tell you, Trinket. First of
all, boy or girl? Just have to check.

LAURA: He's a boy! Look at his giant dick.

MATT: He leans back in a sitting bear position.

MARY: Thank you, I needed some inspiration for
this fight we're about to do. All right. I also

want you to know that Vex loves you very much and
will do whatever she can to protect you.

MATT: As this guttural conversation comes forth,
Trinket comes up to you and nuzzles his nose up

against your side.

LAURA: Oh, little buddy!

FELICIA: I wish Aldor would do that to me.

SAM and MARY: Show his giant cock to you?

(laughter)

FELICIA: I saw it once. It was glorious.

MARY: Very inspiring.

MATT: As Lyra's in this memory trance, finishes
casting Stoneskin and reaches out and touches

Trinket. You can see Trinket's physical form, all
the fur seems to coalesce into a thick rock-type

exterior shell of magical protection.

LAURA: What does his armor class raise by?

MATT: Armor class doesn't change, but all damage
that Trinket takes from bludgeoning, piercing, or

slashing is reduced by half.

LAURA: Nice.

MARY: Thank you, Trinket, lovely to talk to you.

SAM: What else can we do to prepare?

LAURA: I promise, Lyra, I will let him attack this
battle.

FELICIA: Oh good, no, it's fantastic. That invited
so many good thoughts in my mind. I don't mind

anything at this point. I mean, what?

MATT: The giants begin to move forward into the
cavern.

LAURA: It's happening.

MARY: Yep. Screw your courage to the
sticking-place.

TALIESIN: Ew. Oh. All right.

MATT: All right. Scanlan, I want you to go ahead
and roll a dexterity saving throw.

SAM: Oh boy, already? Dex. 17. Oh. Plus four. 21.

MATT: 21. As you begin stepping forward up the
cavern where the wall itself has collapsed, you

step forward onto a part of the ice that is far
more brittle than you expected, and suddenly it

(cracks) breaks beneath your foot.

SAM: My Scanlan-sense is tingling!

MATT: You push off and fall onto your back, and as
you guys look over, you hear the cracking and the

falling of some sort of stone or ice-like
structure. You see where Scanlan was stepping a

ten-foot-diameter pit crumbles and falls beneath.
And peering over the inside and using your light,

you can see there appears to be an arrangement of
razor-sharp ice spikes gathered at the bottom of a

15-foot pit.

LAURA: What? Why isn't my brother here? I need to
check for traps from now on. Snoop ahead.

TALIESIN: I think we've found one. There's a trap
right there.

SAM: Does that take up our whole path now?

MATT: The tunnel itself is about 20 feet wide at
this point, so you guys can move around it. The

giants were ahead of you at this point.

SAM: Did they laugh?

MATT: One of them shakes his head and the other
one just keeps walking.

FELICIA: Gee, I had a spell that would be useful,
but it's not ready.

SAM: Thanks for that update.

FELICIA: I'm just being honest. I could've lied,
said that I totally prepared that spell, but I

could've been knowing Giant the whole time, so I
just.

LAURA: (laughs) Oops.

FELICIA: If anybody falls, I can make them fall
gently. That's on the list.

LAURA: Oh, that's good. Is that Feather Fall?
Nice. Okay, I perceive some more and see if I see

any traps ahead of us the whole time.

MATT: All right. You go ahead and make a
perception check as you move forward.

LAURA: That would be a seven. 15.

MATT: 15, okay. You guys continue to push upwards
this long spiraling corridor. You reach another

ice wall that has already been partially broken
from some sort of encounter long ago. You

immediately see that the part of the wall that is
broken. There's about a ten-foot-wide blocked

passage, the entirety of that walkway appears to
be another trap, and the giants are waiting back.

LAURA: Good for you. There's a thing here. We
should not step on it.

I have one job on this ship!

MARY: I know it's stupid, but goddamn it, I'm
going to do it.

SAM: How do we get around? What do we do?

LAURA: We should maybe break down this ice wall
and then not walk on this area. How about that?

SAM: Oh. Okay. Let's, yes.

FELICIA: Oh, good. Should I Firebolt? I mean, I'm
going to Firebolt. From a distance.

LAURA, FELICIA, MARY, and SAM: (singing) From a
distance, the world is...

SAM: Beaches.

FELICIA: That's a 30.

MATT: 30. Go ahead and roll some damage.

FELICIA: Yeah! Nine and eight and a ten, these are
good rolls. That's a 27.

MATT: 27. This bolt arcs around from the side. You
hit it right at the point where half of the wall

had collapsed, causing the other half of the wall
to immediately shatter and collapse inward,

spraying bits of ice and rock against the wall on
that side. The ground becomes rough terrain in

that general vicinity, but it's easy enough to
traverse over without any serious issue. As you

guys step over, and the giants make their way
across, stepping over it entirely with their long

gait. You move carefully over the shattered wall
bits, but the ground itself seems solid. You get

past without issue.

LAURA: Before we go into the actual lair of the
dragon-- once we get to it; I don't know much more

of these thingies there are. Do we want to go in
as if we're offering it something and saying, hey,

we love you, we want to bring you people, and
stuff like that?

MARY: We are here to serve you?

LAURA: Or do we want to send somebody in first and
act like they're here to serve it, and then we all

spring in and surprise it? What do you want to
do?

SAM: They like to eat giants.

LAURA: It wants to eat anything frozen, basically.
It freezes things, and then it eats them.

FELICIA: Well, there was another party that the
guild-- the guild did send another party.

LAURA: I don't know if they had a method or if
they just walked right in.

TALIESIN: Perhaps if we're quiet and stealthy. Can
we be quiet and stealthy?

FELICIA: I can't!

MARY: I can cast Invisibility.

FELICIA: Ooh, I can cast Invisibility on myself.

SAM: That would help.

MARY: So learning of the dragon, will it be able
to detect us if we cast Invisibility?

FELICIA: That's nature? That would be a nature
check or animal handling?

MATT: This would be an intelligence check.

FELICIA: Oh. Well, I can do that. That's a 30--
that's a 23.

MATT: Okay, so what you've read of dragons, their
ability to sense their surroundings is adapted to

all environments, whether they can see or not.
They actually have the ability to see with no

sight necessary to a certain extent, so
invisibility would help at a distance, quite a bit

of distance, but within a certain point it is able
to sense your presence whether or not it can see

you. Also note, if you cast Invisibility you lose
your concentration spell on Trinket.

FELICIA: Oh, so let's not do that. Now, his vanity,
he does like being worshipped.

So that is the key.

SAM: So we could go in with an offering.

LAURA: An offering. What if we laid a trap in the
offering? What if we used your frag grenade that

you did. Is it a bomb? Does it set off on a timer?
Is it very fragile?

TALIESIN: I have to set it off personally. I
actually have to shoot it to set it off.

MARY: So smile, you son of a bitch, basically, if
we put it in his mouth?

LAURA: Do we have any bombs or anything like that?
Because I have a very big beautiful diamond of

awesomeness that we uncovered before that I keep
about. We could present him with this big,

huge-ass diamond and then have it trapped with
some sort of exploding device.

SAM: We could.

FELICIA: If he picks the diamond up off of the--

LAURA: We could put it in a bag and then put the
diamond on top of a bomb or something, and then

when he picks it up and like, (explosion) in his
face.

TALIESIN: That's hoping for an awful lot of things
to go our way. More things than normally go our

way, to be fair.

FELICIA: Well, it seems worthy of trying to get
close to him, because his attacks-- Would he as a

dragon have a very good length attack?

MATT: Yeah, as a dragon has some decent reach with
some of its attacks. Its bite, and its length of

neck and ability to bite actually has quite a bit
of reach. Also, its tail has quite some reach, as

well. It can cover some decent ground just with
its physical form.

FELICIA: The thing is, obviously the trolls don't
come up here a lot or there wouldn't be so much

ice in here. Walls. So I think that's a problem,
so it's not as if they come up here all the time

to give it treats. Right?

SAM: We could just walk in there. I could be
holding Lyra as my captive and say, I've brought

you this captive to eat.

FELICIA: I don't like that one.

SAM: Well, you know, you're very appealing.

MARY: We still don't know that the giants aren't
going to help us.

MATT: As you guys are stepping forward up the
pathway, you turn a corner and you can see the

giants have stopped, and they have a physical
trepidation to the way that they're leaning

backward in their stance. As you turn the corner,
the little bit of light that reaches out, you can

see there appears to be one final ice wall that
has a ten-foot opening where it's left as a

pathway, and it opens into a darkened chamber.

MARY: Well, I have darkvision for 60 feet, so I
could approach around the side and peer in and just

see what's there, 60 feet ahead.

MATT: Okay, so you walk up past the giants to this
entrance? All right. As you walk forward, you see

your vision spill out in the darkness, with a
little bit of dim light and the darkness before

you reveals itself. You can see a smattering of
broken bits along the ground, looks like rocks and

ice, a frozen leg of some humanoid, an arm, some
scattered, broken armor and weapons. There are

pieces of what appears to be a frozen-over
graveyard of previous attempts towards inhabiting

this room. And as you continue to push forward
towards the edge, just towards the perimeter as

far as your vision can see at this doorway, you
see a central platform in the middle of this giant

chamber that rises up about 15 feet. Ten, 15 feet,
and just cresting over the top of this platform is

the edge of an alabaster snout, with teeth
overlapping. You hear this (snarls) growling

snarl. And this little voice spills out from
underneath and says, "Why don't you enter? If

"you're going to arrive and present yourselves, do
not cower yet."

FELICIA: Get that diamond out!

MATT: And with that, we're going to go ahead and
take a break.

(shouting)

MATT: We're going to take a quick ten-minute break
to go ahead and use the bathroom, get a little

snack. Yes?

ZAC: We're eight subscribers away from another
giveaway.

(cheering)

ZAC: The giveaway includes a signed player's
handbook by all your wonderful hosts, as well as

the hosts that will be here next week, and a
signed copy of Felicia Day's new book.

FELICIA: My new book! It's right there! I signed
it.

SAM: What's it called? What's the title?

FELICIA: It's called You're Never Weird on the
Internet (Almost).

SAM: Aw. That's cool.

FELICIA: It's amusing.

ZAC: Are you weird in real life all the time?

FELICIA: No, I mean, look at me.

ZAC: No. Definitely not.

FELICIA: I don't believe your face.

SAM: Did you consider the title Day Dreaming?

FELICIA: You're pretty.

SAM: I just thought, because it's like a pun.

FELICIA: No, that's awful.

SAM: Consider it.

MATT: Somewhere, someone's holding their
manuscript entitled Day Dreaming and going

(fake crying).

(laughter)

MATT: All right, guys, we'll take a quick break,
we'll see you back in ten minutes or so to see how

this goes.

[break]

MATT: Welcome back from the break! Our fantastic
Travis finally made it.

(cheering)

TRAVIS: I heard I rolled really well in the
beginning of this.

MATT: Yeah, it went wonderfully.

LAURA: Sorry. But your Chain of Returning is
attached to your blazing warhammer now.

MATT: There you go. So as it ends up, we have a
new winner. KadenPhilly is the winner,

congratulations, of our next giveaway. So we'll be
giving away the player's handbook, the signed

photo, a copy of Felicia's book-- yay!-- and a
bunch of other goodies coming your way soon, so

make sure you get your information to the
Overlord. We'll have another giveaway at 5,800, if

we can get to there by the end of the show
tonight, so let's see if we can hit that. In the

meantime, guys--

TRAVIS: Shit.

MARY: Yeah. Welcome to the shit.

TRAVIS: I've been watching in the car.

MATT: You guys have all been making your way
through the cavern back here. Zahra has stepped

forward and in the darkness, you can see right
here at the edge a form.

FELICIA: He's up above us, though.

MATT: Yep. About ten, 15 feet up on this platform,
leaning over the edge is Rimefang, staring at you

through the darkness. A claw comes forward and
beckons.

LAURA: Can I, from here, before we go in there--
I'm going to cast Hunter's Mark on him.

MATT: You can't see him right now.

MARY: I can.

MATT: Zahra can.

TRAVIS: I can, too. I've got my belt of dwarven
darkvision.

FELICIA: Is he speaking dragon?

MATT: Speaking Common.

FELICIA: He's speaking Common. Okay.

MARY: Would he detect if I would cast anything on
him at the moment? I don't know! Then I'm going to

sit here and drink my drink.

TRAVIS: Are you offering him that jewel, or did we
ditch that idea?

LAURA: No, are we doing that?

SAM: We might. Depends what he asks. Yeah, let's
do it.

TRAVIS: Yeah, roll it out like a tennis ball for a
dog.

TALIESIN: Do we have a little bag we can put the
jewels in?

LAURA: Yeah.

SAM: We don't have time to do any of this stuff.

LAURA: Yeah, we do.

TALIESIN: We have a second. I'm going to hand you
my Holy Hand Grenade of Antioch. Why not?

TRAVIS: You can Hold Monster?

MARY: I can Hold Monster. Yeah, we both can.

TRAVIS: Does he qualify as a monster?

MATT: As far as you know, dragon's pretty much a
monster.

LAURA: I am putting Percy's hand grenade inside
this bag along with a diamond. Oh, it's a really

pretty diamond.

TALIESIN: We'll get it back, it's okay.

LAURA: As long as it doesn't explode.

TALIESIN: You can't explode a diamond.

LAURA: That's true, diamonds are really strong.

TALIESIN: Diamonds are forever.

LAURA: I put that in the bag. Are we tossing this
at him? What are we doing?

SAM: No! We walk in. He's beckoning us. Let's walk
in. I'm walking in.

MATT: All right, so you guys all walk in?

SAM: I'm going ahead.

LAURA: Here, hold the bag.

SAM: I'll take the bag.

MATT: Zahra, are you staying ahead with Scanlan?

FELICIA: I believe that you squishy people should
be back here!

TRAVIS: I'm not squishy, I go with them.

MATT: As a note, as you guys are walking through
and the light hits the walls, you begin to see the

ice itself, which you've become accustomed to, is
now being broken up into what looks like little

glittering stars. It's almost like you're walking
through a frozen area of the night sky. You

realize that there are gold pieces frozen in
sporadically all throughout the wall, the floor,

the ceiling here. The actual, whatever wealth this
dragon has acquired is in some way shape or form

embedded in its own lair. Anyway. So we have the
three of you up front. Who's up next? I imagine

we've got Trinket.

LAURA: Yeah. Me.

MATT: All right, so you guys all continue to move
forward?

MARY: Not too close!

LAURA: Scanlan!

MATT: There? Where do you want to stop? You guys
have laser pointers to use, by the way, if you

want to point out wherever you want to be.

LAURA: Scanlan should definitely talk to him.

TALIESIN: I would like to go around here.

FELICIA: Oh glorious Rimefang, we have an offering
for you!

TALIESIN: That's not me.

SAM: Is that you? Hello.

MATT: No, that was you, sorry. So Percy goes
here.

LAURA: Over by Percy. But further.

FELICIA: Is that 90 feet?

SAM: It's less than that. We're 30 feet away now.

LAURA: Oh, come on, giants. Help us out.

MATT: So as you guys enter the chamber, the actual
air here is more still and cold than at any point

of the interior of the cavern has been. Even
breathing inward hurts in itself as the freezing

air hits your lungs. Rimefang sits there, perched
on top of this central platform, grinning down

towards the rest of the group. You, who have
shouted this out, Lyra, about having an offering.

Rimefang immediately leans forward. "An offering,
you say?"

LAURA: I want to make my way further up. While
he's talking, I want to make my way along the wall

a little.

MATT: Make a stealth check.

LAURA: Oh no. 20! Natural 20! And all I needed was
fried chicken!

(laughter)

TRAVIS: It's true.

MATT: All right, so. You, somehow, manage to dart
out of the visual reference of a very focused

adult white dragon. Rimefang does not seem to
gather any movement, and you vanish into the side.

Where do you want to go?

LAURA: A little bit further. There. That sounds
good.

MATT: Okay. Percy, as you're stepping over you
realize you're stepping onto what looks like the

broken lower half of another giant that has fallen
over, a booted leg and part of an eaten armored

torso to your back. As you begin to look through,
you also see there currently frozen in place three

other individuals that are in mid-battle and are
frozen solid.

LAURA: If we unfreeze them, they could help us.

FELICIA: They're probably dead in there.

TRAVIS: We're standing in front of a dragon!

SAM: Rimefang?

MARY: Oh great Rimefang! What a glorious moon you
are amidst the stars of your treasure.

TRAVIS: Oh, pour it on, why don't you?

(laughter)

MARY: We do have an offering for you.

SAM: Yes. And I use Mage Hand to lift the diamond
out of the bag and dangle it in front of the

dragon. We've brought you this diamond. We've come
from the Slayer's Take. We represent the guild and

we are here to formally apologize for sending a
few of our members here in the past and promise

that we never shall again, and as a gift of
apology and hopefully brotherhood, we offer you

this diamond. There are many more to come.

TALIESIN: And everything else in the bag, as
well.

LAURA: And then you put it back in the bag. And
then you give it to him.

MATT: There's this low, guttural snarl (snarls).
It leans forward, sneaking down off the perch a

little bit. Its head moves forward and stretches
outward, no more than maybe ten feet from your

face. You can see it inspecting the diamond as
you're holding it by the Mage Hand, floating above

the rest of the bag. Chuckles to itself.
(chuckles) "This is your measly offering?"

SAM: There is a diamond of much greater size and
value in this pouch. But first, we want to hear

that you are going to allow us safe passage out of
here before we turn it over to you.

MATT: Persuasion check.

ZAC: Guys, just so you know, the stream's
buffering, so hold. Twitch problems.

FELICIA: Oh no.

ZAC: Hold for buffer.

MATT: Do we know at what point it started
buffering?

ZAC: You're back up. Missing the last two
sentences. Buffer over.

SAM: Please allow us safe passage. And then you
said roll for persuasion, and I rolled a 19.

MATT: Rimefang's head withdraws back and its claws
pull back on top of the platform. It lifts its

head up, looking down at you with this very
disinterested, snooty look (huffs). As it snorts

out of its nose, this puff of frost shoots out and
crystals of ice fall and clatter to the ground

around it.

SAM: That was so cool.

MATT: "You. You trespass into my domain, your
voices bickering and bouncing off the walls,

"annoying me, waking me from my slumber. My freshly
eaten slumber. I am curious, before you so walk

"into my dinner table, why you seem to have gotten
past my guardians?" At which point the two giants

who are standing behind you look over at each
other nervously.

SAM: Your guardians are well aware of our power
and position and did not want to offend you by

turning us away.

MATT: "Are you to tell me I spared your
insignificant lives so you could let this

"insulting, insufferable insect into the heart of
my domain?"

SAM: I'm called Burt Reynolds, and I take great
offense at that.

MATT: The dragon's head turns to the side for a
moment as a glance of confusion and almost

amusement that you speak up to it with such a
disrespectful manner. (evil laughter)

SAM: You can call me Mr. Reynolds or simply Burt.

MATT: (heavy impacts) Its claws dig in and tighten
on the edges of this platform. You can see the

stonework and the ice crack and shatter under its
grip as pieces of stone tumble down the edges of

the platform, scattering across the ground with a
slight clattering. The wings (whoosh) unfurl

outward. Its head looks down upon you directly.

"Burt."

(laughter)

MATT: "You say you're from the Slayer's Take. I
have not lived these hundred years or so to become

"the hunted. I am the hunter! I am the scourge of
the Thorain Tundra! I am the stalker of this

"timberland. Well. Parts of you shall adorn my
walls, glittering in pieces for times to come.

"Giants. To my side! Tonight, you choose whether I
dine on you or just them."

MARY: I use-- fuck me.

(laughter)

TALIESIN: I don't know if you have that spell.

FELICIA: Really, what's the DC on that?

MARY: It's very high! I use Awakened Mind to once
more say, now we have seen what you have been

through. We see the terror that you face every day
from this awful beast. This is your chance. You

may not have another. Fight him with us and
destroy this beast forever.

MATT: Make a persuasion check versus the dragon's
intimidation check.

SAM: Oh, versus a dragon!

LAURA: Natural 20 all the way. Natural 20. I've
had my bow notched, and I cast Hunter's Mark while

all this is going on.

MARY: 18. 18 plus what?

SAM: What is it, persuasion?

MATT: Persuasion.

MARY: Plus nine. 27.

MATT: The giants look at each other, and they look
down at the rest of you. They pull their axes out,

shields at the ready, and look back up at
Rimefang, and in Giant you hear, muttered under

their breath, "It's now or never."

(cheering)

MATT: Roll initiative.

MARY: Yes!

LAURA, FELICIA, and TALIESIN: Oh my god.

FELICIA: Oh, I rolled lower!

LAURA: I rolled a 20.

TALIESIN: I rolled another 20.

LAURA: Me too!

TRAVIS: What is it with you and your 20s?

TALIESIN: I don't know! I don't know what
happened.

MATT: Okay, all right. 25 to 20, anyone?

LAURA: 25.

TALIESIN: 28.

MARY: What?!

MATT: All right. We have Percy, we have Vex,
leaving that up there. All right,

we have 20 to 15?

TRAVIS: 19.

MATT: 19, nice. 15 to ten?

MARY: 12.

MATT: 12. Zahra, 12. Ten to five?

SAM: Seven.

MATT: Seven for Scanlan. (laughing) what did you
roll?

FELICIA: Negative one!

(laughter)

MARY: That's our leader!

MATT: Did you roll a natural one?

FELICIA: I rolled a one, and I have a negative
two.

TRAVIS: On your initiative?!

FELICIA: Yes! I'm never going. I'm going to just
have a snack.

TRAVIS: You break out the trail mix.

TALIESIN: The little gingers come back out.

FELICIA: Is that a record?

TRAVIS: That is a record. I don't think we've ever
had a negative initiative.

MATT: All right, so as the wings unfurl on top of
this platform, the combat round

begins with Percy.

TALIESIN: If I take one shot, can I hold my second
shot until an event? Can I time my second shot?

MATT: No, you'd have to hold your initiative, or
you do all your actions in one round,

unfortunately.

TALIESIN: Darn it. What initiative did you roll,
again?

SAM: Low. Second to last.

TALIESIN: In that case, I'm going to take a few
steps behind that frozen creature right there. I'm

going to pull out Bad News.

MARY, SAM, and TALIESIN: (singing) Bad News!

TALIESIN: I'm going to aim for the face. I'm going
to take a head shot on him.

MATT: Okay, the frozen warrior is in front of
you.

TALIESIN: I'm just using him as partial cover.

MATT: Okay, so you're behind the creature. Are you
just putting it on it to aim?

TALIESIN: More or less. I'm using him as a steady
and as partial cover as I take a head shot on the

dragon. I'm not taking a bonus for damage, no. Oh.
15?

MATT: 15 unfortunately does not hit. As you shoot,
(gunshot), it actually hits the body but the

hardness of the dragon's scales ricochets the shot
off, (ricochet sound), you see it impact on some

part of the far side of the cavern.

TALIESIN: I'm going to burn a bonus action and
spend another grit point and do another shot.

MATT: So you're doing your action surge?

TALIESIN: I'm taking my action surge.

MATT: Okay, so you use your action surge, and
that's it for this round. You use your first round

to reload Bad News and place it back up on top.

TALIESIN: Come on.

MATT: Another head shot, you said?

TALIESIN: Yeah. Oh! 19! That's much better. Plus
12, that's 32 to hit. And that's 15 points of

damage, and head shot means he's got disadvantage
on all attacks for the next round.

MATT: Okay, good to know. So I'm going to go ahead
and roll. All right, so. (gunshot) From the impact

of the blast, you see the shot ricochet off of
Rimefang's face. The impact sends a couple pieces

of white dragon scale shooting off into the
darkness, and the head (grunts) rears from the

impact, shakes, seemingly loosely shaken by the
impact of the blast. The blowback from the gun

actually sends a large crack through the physical
body of the ice warrior ahead of you, and it

collapses into a pile of ice on the ground in
front of you.

TALIESIN: I feel a little guilty about that. I
feel very guilty about that.

MATT: You get the feeling that whatever was there
probably has not been alive

for quite a while.

TALIESIN: Okay, I feel a little better.

MATT: Frozen solid. It breaks like the T-1000.

TALIESIN: And he was the most useful he's ever
been.

MATT: That ends Percy's turn. We're up at Vex.

LAURA: Okay, I'm going to cast Lightning Arrow,
and I'm going to attack through my Blazing Bow.

MATT: All righty.

LAURA: Okay. Oh, that's good! That is a 25?

MATT: 25? 25 does hit, yes.

LAURA: Okay, so that is 4d8 of lightning damage.

MATT: All right. Saving throw for half? Or just
take it?

LAURA: Saving throw for half, yes.

MATT: That's a natural 20 on its saving throw, so
it takes half damage.

FELICIA: That's some stink-eye.

MATT: Hey, better on a saving throw than on an
attack.

LAURA: 13 plus six is 19, 20, so ten. Plus regular
damage, right? For my regular. 19. I know. 11 plus

ten is 21, plus Hunter's Mark is four. And then
plus my Blazing Bow, which adds another ten. Where

did that land? Shit, balls! I'm so aggressive
right now! I'm going to roll a different one! Oh

my god. That looks like a one. Oh wow. Two ones.
That's great.

MATT: So as you pull back your arrow, the actual
shaft begins to spark with bluish energy as you

release it. The arrow transforms (energy noises)
into an arcing bolt of electrical energy. It

impacts and courses through the upper torso of the
dragon, as it's (grunts) still trying to shake off

the damage it took from Percy's attack. It manages
to push off most of the impact, but still takes

damage from it. There's also a burst of fire from
the impact, as well, you can see a bit of flame

trickle up the side of his body and it eventually
goes out from the cold in the air.

LAURA: That was one attack.

MATT: Yes.

LAURA: Okay.

MATT: But was the spell an action?

LAURA: The Lightning Arrow is a bonus.

MATT: Oh, okay. So it makes your next attack do
that. Right. Gotcha. So you have one more attack.

LAURA: So I am going to send Trinket. Where is
he?

MATT: Trinket's over here with the giants guarding
him.

LAURA: Dear lord. Can Trinket run around and
attack his butt?

MATT: It's actually up on top of a 15-foot
platform.

LAURA: Oh, so Trinket can't do shit right now.

MATT: Not right now, but Trinket can move if you
like.

LAURA: Trinket's going to move, and I'm going to
attack again, can I do that?

MATT: Yeah, you can do that.

LAURA: We want to spread out.

MATT: That's as far as Trinket get can get,
there.

LAURA: Can I attack again?

MATT: You can, yeah.

LAURA: All right, I'll hit him again. Okay, just a
regular attack through the bow.

MATT: Yep. This is your second use of it, though;
you're done with it.

LAURA: Yes. 17.

MATT: 17. As you fire the arrow, it takes its wing
and (whoosh) batters it out of the way, and the arrow

shatters in mid air. You see a burst of fire as it
does nothing.

LAURA: It was a 25 that hit before. What was the
first attack that hit?

TALIESIN: I was in the 30s.

MATT: So that ends your turn, Vex. Do you want to
move, or do you want to stay right there?

LAURA: Can I stealth?

MATT: (laughs) No, that's a hide action, I think.

LAURA: Then I'm going to move along the wall
further. Yeah, like that.

MATT: That ends your turn. Rimefang, now, shaking
off the frustration, looks around the room, lifts

up on its back hind legs, spreads its wings, and
just gives this large roar. (roars) The entire

room shakes, and you see pieces of ice and rock
begin to start falling from the ceiling.

Everybody, go ahead and make a wisdom saving
throw. Everybody. One giant is fine. All right,

starting with Percy.

TALIESIN: 12.

MATT: 12.

FELICIA: 15.

SAM: Natural 20, but it becomes 18.

MATT: Okay.

FELICIA: Because you're not wise.

MARY: 21.

MATT: All right.

LAURA: Ten.

MATT: Grog?

TRAVIS: Nine?

MATT: That's rough.

TRAVIS: Very wise.

SAM: Oh, lots of red circles.

MATT: All right, so. The sheer amount of presence
that this dragon permeates sends a shiver of fear

down your spine. Vex, Percy, Grog, and one of the
giants are currently frightened of the dragon.

While you are frightened, you have disadvantage on
ability checks and attack rolls, and you cannot

willingly move closer to the dragon.

LAURA: Is Trinket frightened?

MATT: Roll for Trinket.

LAURA: Okay. Come on, Trinket. No! He's probably
pretty frightened. Oh, does that count as

intimidation?

MATT: No, it's a wisdom saving throw. So it's
whatever his wisdom bonus is.

LAURA: He rolled an eight, so I'm guessing he's
pretty scared.

MATT: Probably scared. Trinket, all of a sudden
also (scared bear noises) backs up a little bit

and is looking equally frightened, especially
seeing you scared. Trinket feels a moment of fear

there.

LAURA: You've still got a really big dick!

FELICIA: What?

LAURA: I'm just telling him to encourage him.

TRAVIS: I missed something.

SAM: Not the dragon. Although, probably the dragon
too.

MATT: Rimefang then (whoosh) flies up into the air
for a minute. And then swoops over and lands over

on this side, and that's going to end its turn.
That brings us to Grog.

TRAVIS: I got to break it, right?

MATT: Yeah, you're scared.

TRAVIS: Rage? I look over my shoulder, terrified,
at the other one that's scared, and I say, repeat

after me, lads. I would like to rage.

MATT: You reach into your inner self, and suddenly
you realize this is it. You know dragons, you've

fought dragons in the past, you've killed dragons
in the past, and you know dragons have been

responsible for hurting some of your friends and
their families, and through that, that anger just

billows up from inside, and that fear shakes
from your body.

TRAVIS: I want to kill a dragon like my friend
Pike did.

MATT: You're now in a rage. You shake the fear
effect, and you can take the rest of your turn as

you see fit.

TRAVIS: (battle cry) I would like to run over that
direction.

SAM: Oh, you're running away from it?

MATT: You rage-ran.

TRAVIS: I rage-ran. Can I attack?

MATT: You're currently hiding behind a 15-foot
platform.

TRAVIS: So I can't see beyond it?

MATT: You're literally hiding from the dragon
right now. Cool. All right, that ends your turn?

Zahra, you're up.

MARY: All right, how far away is it from me?

MATT: It is currently 30 feet from you.

MARY: All right.

MATT: Real fast. Grog, make a dexterity saving
throw.

TRAVIS: 13?

MATT: 13?

LAURA: What was that for?

MATT: As you're running through, all of a sudden
the floor gives out from underneath you, and you

roll off to the side. You almost fall in, catching
yourself, you slide down into a pit, but manage to

get your handhold on a piece of stone that's
jutting out of the rock. Pull yourself up.

Underneath where you were in the ground is a
cracked piece of ice: a pit in the ground.

LAURA: Seriously?

MATT: But you're fine. You get back up to your
feet. That could've been really bad. It's about 15

feet down into these jagged shards of ice.

LAURA: My passive perception is 21. Just for
future reference.

MATT: Good to know. You also have no light source.
You're at the far back in the darkness. Actually,

you have Grog around you right now.

MARY: And I still have Light cast.

MATT: Yeah, so you're fine. All right. That brings
us to Zahra, once again.

MARY: I cast my bonus Hex on this beautiful
beast.

MATT: It is now Hexed, as well.

SAM: What's that do? What's that?

MARY: I get extra damage.

TRAVIS: You sexy tailed bastard.

MARY: I take my dark dragon staff, and as this
moon orb begins to glow, I cast Witch Bolt-- is

that it?-- yes! Witch Bolt upon it! Infused with
my own internal moon fire.

MATT: All right. Do you have to roll to hit on
that one?

MARY: Witch Bolt? Yeah, what do I do? It's plus
11. 5d12 plus two.

LAURA: Yeah, so roll and then add 11.

MARY: 13.

LAURA: Oh, that's good.

MARY: 24, plus two damage to all spells cast, so
26?

LAURA: No, that's damage.

MARY: Oh, sorry, 24.

MATT: All right, so Witch Bolt does hit. Go ahead
and roll damage for that.

MARY: So 5d12. Five times. All right. Do math for
me, somebody. What is that? That's a three.

TRAVIS: Three plus the two, so that's five.

LAURA: You do it all and then add the two.

TRAVIS: Oh, gotcha. Seven.

MARY: That's four.

TRAVIS: Yeah. Plus four. 19. 26. 38.

MARY: One more?

LAURA: No, that's all five.

MATT: Five, and you add 1d6 to that because of
your Hex.

LAURA: Plus two, so 38 is 40.

MARY: One.

MATT: Okay. So 41 points.

MARY: Yeah.

LAURA: Plus anything else? Wait, plus two damage
to all-- oh, but that's already--

TRAVIS: That's already there.

MATT: Okay, so. After you Hex it, you can see the
shadows around the dragon begin to form and

coalesce around its torso, and as it looks around,
these small demonic faces that cackle as bits of

moonlight begin to pierce through these grins
chokehold around its neck, and as it tries to

shake it off, you bring your staff forward, and
this bolt of bluish-green electrical energy shakes

out in what looks like a piercing arc of jagged
moonlight that strikes right into the center of

the dragon's chest. As it does, the dragon's
nearly pushed off its feet for a second, gathers

itself, and you can see that energy surrounds it
like magical shackles, it continues to keep its

hold on the creature, as Witch Bolt does. All
right. Do you wish to move, or are you going to

stay where you are? You can move 30 feet, six
squares.

MARY: I'd like to go stand by the giants.

TRAVIS: You're already there.

MATT: Yeah, you're right here. It's hard for you
to see because that guy's in the way, but you're

right there.

MARY: All right. No, the other way. Blinding
players as we go. Where am I? I'm there? I'd like

to move to the slight cover of the pedestal.

MATT: You can get that far. All right, so there
you are. That ends your turn, Zahra. Scanlan,

you're up.

SAM: My eyes begin to change to a dark shade as I
turn my gaze to the dragon

and cast Eyebite on him.

TRAVIS: What? Cast what?

SAM: Eyebite.

MATT: All right. And how are you having that
affect him?

SAM: I would like to sicken him. Give him a little
tummy-ache.

TRAVIS: Is he going to do the twirls?

MATT: Okay, we're going to do Eyebite here.

SAM: Through my Hand Cone of Clarity!

MATT: All right. So wisdom saving throw for the
dragon. Use my meteor dice one of the fans out

there sent. All right, what's the DC on that now
total?

SAM: It's 19.

MATT: 19. That would fail. It's going to use its
legendary resistance to

choose to succeed instead.

SAM: It can just choose to succeed?!

TRAVIS: How many times can it choose to do that?!

MATT: Three times per day. Welcome to fighting a
dragon!

SAM: What? But that was a cool spell!

MATT: So as your eyes darken, the dragon's
currently surrounded by the Witch Bolt and the Hex

on the creature. You darken your eyes, and you
look over and see the arcane energy taking your

vision, its vision, combine it in midair. As you
do, it shakes its head and (roars) shouts. You

instinctively pull back, and as you do, the spell
drifts away from you and you realize the

incantation's lost.

TRAVIS: Percy, use your badass motherfucker feat
to have it work.

SAM: Okay, can I throw with a bonus action?

MATT: What are you going to throw?

SAM: A bag.

MATT: No, that's probably more of an action, but
you can drop it as a bonus action.

SAM: Got it. Then I will move a few steps away. I
can still move and stuff, right? I would like to

move away from this group of
soon-to-be-blasted-with-dragon-fire people. Just a

few yards away to my left.

MATT: All right.

SAM: That's fine, sure, that's great. And give
some inspiration to Lyra. I'll say, (singing) When

the moon hits your eye like a big pizza pie,
that's Aldor-e.

(cheering)

TRAVIS: Yeah, going deep.

MATT: And suddenly, the fear that's getting close
to clutching your heart and giving you every

instinct to run from this, you hear the name
Aldor, and you feel that surge of warmth fill your

body, and the need to push on forward. Go ahead
and take a d10 inspiration dice to use in any roll

you want.

FELICIA: Oh my gosh, thank you so much. That's
beautiful.

SAM: Well, I wrote it for you.

MATT: All right. That ends your turn, Scanlan. Now
the giants go. This one is going to move to the

side. It's deathly afraid of the dragon, it's
like, this is a bad idea, it's really regretting

its decision. It's going to attempt to shake the
effect. And does so.

(cheering)

MATT: Shakes its fright. The other one is going to
step over you. As you're like, all of a sudden

this foot goes (wham) in front of you, you're
like, (nervous sound).

FELICIA: Oh my god, I got hit with his dick.

(laughter)

TRAVIS: What were their names? Ace and Base?

SAM and MARY: Ace and Gary.

MATT: The giant's going to move forward. It's
going to attempt to make two strikes with its

greataxe. That's going to be a 17, that misses.
And a 16, that misses. (whooshing) Makes two

strikes to the dragon, and it just dodges out of
the way. The second one, it reaches up with its

claw and slaps, just parries its axe out of the
way and just glares at it, and you can see at that

moment, the giant also itself is like (growls).
Ending their turn. Lyra, you're up.

FELICIA: Oh, what? Finally me? All right. I am
going to get my big spell out. Now, can I target

its wing and try to Disintegrate-- can I try to
cut its wing off?

MATT: You know what, yeah, if you want to go ahead
and try that. It's going to be a disadvantage on

the attack roll.

FELICIA: What is that?

TRAVIS: Roll it twice and you get the lower
number.

MATT: But does Disintegrate have--

FELICIA: It doesn't have a DC.

MATT: Then it would have an advantage on the
saving throw.

FELICIA: Oh, okay. No, I'm going to try to hit it.
It's my big gun, I don't want to be like, sorry.

I'm like, I just did this and it looked amazing.

SAM: Which one are you doing?

FELICIA: I'm doing Disintegrate. And it's 10d6
plus a d10, plus 40. Right? It's not the best

roll, guys. There's a lot of small numbers here.

TRAVIS: Yeah, it's only got plus 40. It's a pretty
shrimpy hit.

LAURA: Wait, plus 40?

MATT: Yeah, it's 10d6 plus 40 force damage.

TRAVIS: I need to get a wand.

MATT: Disintegrate's nasty.

FELICIA: 39.

MATT: 39 plus 40? All right, that's 79 points of
damage. What's the DC? It's 17 on that for your

spells?

FELICIA: Yes.

MATT: It does make its saving throw, so half
damage. But rounding up, that's 40 damage still.

40 force damage to the dragon. As you, with the
swelling of energy that Scanlan gave you reminding

you of Aldor, you release and once again that
sickeningly green beam of arcane energy just

streaks out, hits the dragon, and with a burst of
arcane energy you can see part of its scales have

withered, part of its wing is now tattered and
missing, and immediately the physical form of the

dragon, it's reeling in pain.

LAURA: So if we aim at that area that doesn't have
scales...

MATT: You'll find out.

MARY: But you've still got the Witch Bolt wrapping
around him, yeah?

MATT: That is focused.

FELICIA: I definitely want to move. I want to move
over there behind that-- over here. Yeah. So I'm a

little less conspicuous.

MATT: All righty. Cool. That will be the top of
the round. Percy, you're up.

TALIESIN: Still no hand-grenade.

MATT: No. The fear has shaken you, so you cannot
move closer to it, and you have disadvantage on

attacks.

TALIESIN: What do I do to shake the fear?

MATT: At the end of your turn, you make a saving
throw to try and shake it. You can't move closer

to it, but you can still attack it. You cannot
move closer to it, and your attacks have

disadvantage.

TALIESIN: Okay, I'm going to try and take a shot
at it with a standard shot for right now.

MATT: Okay. So because you've shot, reloaded,
shot, reloaded. Go for it.

TALIESIN: 17. Wait, and with disadvantage.

FELICIA: Oh no. That's a great 20 you can't use.

MATT: Yeah. So a total of 17? As you fire, it
would've hit, unfortunately it streaks through the

portion of the wing that currently is left a
gaping hole thanks to the Disintegrate spell, the

impact of the bullet itself blasting against the
back wall, sending chunks and shards of ice

spilling off in the distance.

TALIESIN: I would like to really quickly then go
into that little corner there for some cover.

MATT: Okay. All right. Cool, so that ends your
turn. Vex, you're up next.

TALIESIN: Oh, I didn't roll to shake off the
fear.

MATT: Go ahead and make the save.

TRAVIS: (singing) Shake it off.

ALL: (singing) Shake it off!

MATT: What'd you roll?

TALIESIN: Five.

MATT: Five, yeah. The fear is still clutching you
internally, like, "Shit, dragon, bad, dragon!"

Vex.

LAURA: Can I see him at all?

MATT: Right now? No. You can see parts of the
wings fluttering over, but you don't have a very

good visual on it.

LAURA: And he's pretty far away?

MATT: He's decent distance, yeah.

LAURA: If I just try to (bowstring noise) up?

MATT: You can try to. It has three-quarters cover,
so it gets a plus five to its armor class.

LAURA: And I'm at disadvantage. Does it seem like
if I cast something that would do mass damage,

would the giant then not want to attack with us
anymore?

MATT: That's a risk you'd have to take.

TRAVIS: Drop some stank on that dragon.

LAURA: I'm scared to hit the giant with it.
Because I want to do Conjure Barrage, but I'm

afraid of the giant.

FELICIA: Well, if you do damage to him, the spell
breaks.

LAURA: Exactly. So that would be bad.

SAM: But he's not fighting for us because of a
spell right now. We convinced him.

FELICIA and TALIESIN: Well.

LAURA: Potentially.

TRAVIS: Look at the poker face on that DM. Giving
up nothing. Giving up nothing!

FELICIA: Stone-faced.

LAURA: Should I try it?

TALIESIN: I don't know. What do I know?

MARY: If we damage it, this spell that I've been
talking to him with goes (poof).

LAURA: All right, then I'm going to try to hit the
dragon with a regular attack. I'm not going to do

Conjure Barrage.

MATT: All right, so what's the first range
increment on your longbow?

LAURA: It's 120.

MATT: That's the first range increment? Yeah, it's
a longbow, yeah. So you're not at disadvantage

from that shot. However, it does have
three-quarters cover. And given that

circumstance--

TALIESIN: Does she not have sharpshooter?

LAURA: I don't. That's not the feat that I took. I
took read lips. I'm really good in populated

areas.

MATT: So go for it and roll for the attacks.

LAURA: Okay, cool. Here we go! Yeah, no. Doesn't
hit.

(laughter)

FELICIA: We're going to die!

MATT: You pull back and release the first arrow.
It actually just barely scrapes the top of the

platform and shatters across the ice.

MARY: Come on!

LAURA: That's better! 27!

MATT: 27, even with the three-quarters cover, does
hit! Go ahead and roll damage.

(cheering)

LAURA: Okay. What is that? 12, 13, 14! Plus a d6,
because I'm badass! Plus six! That's 19. That's

not even close to 40, but it does something.

MATT: It's still damage! So as you release the
arrow, it just misses the top of the platform, and

you get just enough of an angle that it hits one
of the wings as it pulls it up, sticks into the

part of its hand that crests the top of the wing.
It (growls)--

LAURA: And I say, fuck you!

MATT: Okay. And it echoes, "Fuck you, fuck you..."
Do you or Trinket wish to move?

LAURA: We're as far away as we can be, and I can't
move any closer.

MATT: That's true. So now you and Trinket both
make wisdom saving throws to try and shake the

fear. Oh, and you're frightened, so actually, roll
again on the attack. Disadvantage on the attacks.

Just roll again. You're frightened.

LAURA: No, both of those sucked. The first one was
20. 20 was the first!

MATT: So a total of 20 for the second roll?
Well, that would hit. Well no, it has

three-quarters cover so it wouldn't,
unfortunately.

LAURA: Matthew Mercer.

MATT: You were frightened! It's part of the
effect. I had to remind myself that. So the arrow

splinters off the top of the wing as it reaches
upward, and you still feel the fear clutching your

physical self.

LAURA: Now we try to shake it off.

MATT: Now you try and shake it off.

LAURA: (sings) I shake it off.

MARY: (sings) Shake it off!

MATT: First roll is for you.

LAURA: I do not succeed. It's a three.

MATT: That would be a no, sorry. For Trinket?

LAURA: 20! Why did you say the first one was for
me? Why couldn't the second one be for me?

MATT: Because that's how it works. So while you're
still scared, you look over and you see Trinket

shakes it off. Trinket looks over his shoulder at
you and gives you a nod of like, I got this. Turns

back to the dragon and gives a (roars) giant
grizzly-bear growl and shout at the dragon. Do you

wish to move at all?

LAURA: Where is he?

MATT: Trinket's right here.

LAURA: He's going to run up for the time being and
hide. Give me this.

FELICIA: Hide? Why is everyone hiding?!

LAURA: He's not hiding! He's going to run up to
this area so that he's got a better vantage point

to run up for the next turn.

MATT: That's about as far as Trinket can get right
there.

LAURA: He can't get any further into this little
crevice?

MATT: Unfortunately, no.

LAURA: Can he run right here?

MATT: Trinket could move here instead. That's as
far as Trinket could move on his movement.

LAURA: That's not really protecting him, is it?

MATT: No, but it's not over in a cluster of other
people.

LAURA: All right.

MATT: All right. Does that end your turn?
Rimefang, who currently has this giant in its

face, angrily decides to instead, as a legendary
action at the end of your turn, actually, before

it takes its turn as you've misfired and Trinket's
running along, it's going to go ahead and use one

of its legendary actions to do a wing attack
against the giant in front of it.

MARY: No, Derek!

TRAVIS: (laughs) Derek. It's Gary.

MARY: Gary. He told me telepathically that his
name is actually Derek.

MATT: This is an interesting point. Remember, this
is a dragon. It's your favored enemy. So keep that in

mind, you have an advantage on attacks against
it.

LAURA: Do I? No, I don't. I looked it up today,
yo. I don't get shit on attacks for him because we

transferred over from Pathfinder. All I can do is
talk to him.

MATT: The chat keeps yelling that the favored
enemy--

LAURA: Well, chat, I looked it up, and I don't
think I have advantage.

MATT: That's true, chat. You're wrong.

(shouting)

LAURA: I literally texted Matt today and I was
super upset.

ZAC: Did chat try to challenge the DM?

MATT: Apparently.

LAURA: Seriously, I thought I had it, too, and
then I looked it up. In fifth edition,

I don't get that.

MATT: As a favored enemy, she gets benefits, but
not specifically in battle. It's more about

knowing--

SAM: I appreciate the chat. Please, keep it
coming.

MARY: Couldn't that inspire Vex in some way? Don't
you get an inspiration roll from the chat?

MATT: Sorry.

FELICIA: You know what's good is that it's a
different team next week, because we're all going

to die.

MARY: No! Lyra, you're our leader, come on!

MATT: Sorry, chat. You're wrong. Tried to go with
you there, but you're wrong.

LAURA: I shouldn't have even said anything, I
should've just gone with you. I'm an idiot.

MATT: That's okay. No worries, but thank you for
being honest and wrong, chat. All right,

nevertheless. It's going to do a wing attack
against the giant in front of it. The giant is

trying to make a dexterity saving throw. Does not.
The giant is knocked prone from the wings (whoosh)

buffeting it with wind as it begins to take off,
knocking the giant back and dealing 13 points of

bludgeoning damage. The dragon then picks up and
lands right there. And rears back its head

(snarling roar) and unleashes a torrent of
freezing cold dragon's breath. A 60-foot cone.

It's going to hit the giant, it's going to hit
Lyra, and it's going to hit Percy.

TALIESIN: Do I not have some cover?

MATT: Not against dragon's breath, unfortunately.
So I need both of you guys to go ahead and make a

constitution saving throw from the sheer freezing
cold.

FELICIA: Oh no. That didn't go well for me.

SAM: Plus three.

FELICIA: Oh, that's true. No, that's damage.

TALIESIN: 20.

SAM: Wait. She gets my inspiration on this throw.

MATT: If she chooses to use it, yes.

FELICIA: Yes, I definitely want to use it.

MATT: So add a d10 to what you rolled.

FELICIA: Ten! Thank god, because that's a 21.

MATT: 21, okay. All right, so both of you take
half of the 54 damage it would've dealt.

LAURA: 54 damage?

MATT: You both take 27 points of cold damage. The
giant that had been partially disintegrated before

by Lyra now takes the brunt of the frozen damage,
and you can now see the ice begins to build up

around it as it (gurgling) gurgles as its life's
blood is now stilled. While frozen in place, the

ice around its physical form holding it there as a
statue of death. The giant is no more.

TRAVIS and MARY: No!

LAURA: What? No!

SAM: Grog, go get his axe! It's really big!

LAURA: Is it too big to carry? He's got a flaming
axe right now.

MATT: All right, and that ends Rimefang's turn.
Grog, you're up.

TRAVIS: I would like to race back from whence I
came to attack his right flank, if I could.

MATT: You could get there. You will have to make--
actually, no, you can move through there without

an issue.

TRAVIS: Also, I have darkvision up to 60 feet.

MATT: You rush up towards the dragon.

TRAVIS: I'd like to take my Firebrand Warhammer
and activate it. Ignite it.

MATT: As a bonus action. Well, it's already been
ignited, you've had it flaming this whole time.

TRAVIS: Oh, beautiful, yeah. It's like a torch,
which means I can see even better. I'd like to go

into a frenzied rage and start swinging away.

MATT: All right, so three attacks on the big old
dragon.

TRAVIS: 19.

MATT: 19 does hit.

TRAVIS: Beautiful. 25.

MATT: Does hit.

TRAVIS: And 23.

MATT: All three hit. Go ahead and roll damage.

LAURA: Okay, so this is the new thing. d10 plus
five plus eight. Plus another--

TRAVIS: d10?

LAURA: Yeah.

MATT: You're hitting with a weapon that's not as
big as your greataxe, but you do an additional 1d6

fire damage when you hit.

TRAVIS: Holy shit. Ah!

MATT: d10 and a d6 together three times. Plus
eight to each.

TRAVIS: Three d10s?

LAURA: Yes. Plus 3d6.

MATT: Plus eight to what you roll on both of
those.

TRAVIS: You threw a bunch of numbers at me.

MATT: All right, so a d10 and a d6 plus eight.

TRAVIS: 19.

MATT: 19 damage.

TRAVIS: Do I do that three times? Oh, wow. 19, and
that's 12.

MATT: 12, all right.

TRAVIS: 12 and then, help me numbers, that's--

LAURA: Oh, that's good, 16. Plus? Ooh. 21.

MATT: Nice. (whack) As you bring the warhammer
down, it smacks the side of the dragon, the flames

all of a sudden burst off of it from the impact,
you can see as you pull back, the white scales are

burned and charred and blackened behind from the
first attack. You bring it back, slam again on the

second part. As you do, the dragon roars
out in pain, the actual force of the impact almost

sending it to catch itself on the other side of
its body. Its head swings around to look at

whoever's slamming it in the side as you bring the
hammer back, swing underneath and then hit it from

underneath the bottom of its torso, right where
its ribs would be, with a (crunch) crack sound.

You hit it a third time, leaving a second giant
charred mark where you made impact.

TRAVIS: Yes!

MATT: That'll end your turn. Zahra, you're up.

MARY: All right, I've still got Witch Bolt.

MATT: You do.

MARY: And it's still going, yes?

MATT: You don't have to roll to attack again. You
just use your action.

MARY: I just fucking keep going with the fucking
Witch Bolt. Can I use a cantrip, or will that

dispel the Witch Bolt?

MATT: No, because most cantrips take an action. So
you would not be able to. The Witch Bolt is your

action. Almost all cantrips are actions to use
them, so you'd be either able to use your action

and the Witch Bolt, or use the cantrip. Your
choice.

MARY: No, no, I'm going to stick with Witch Bolt.
I'm very happy with this.

MATT: So you focus yet again, your eyes still
glowing in that strange, midnight moon color with

this black smoke that's framing the side of it.
You take your staff and force your will through it

once again. That connection between you and the
dragon and that weird swirling greenish-blue

energy that surrounds the dragon connects with
your staff. And as it does, it sends another bolt

of otherworldly energy careening into the side of
the dragon. Go ahead and roll damage.

LAURA: I watch her with my mouth agape.

TRAVIS: d12.

LAURA: Five times.

TRAVIS: We got you.

MARY: 12. 17.

TRAVIS: 19.

LAURA and TRAVIS: Ooh, 30.

LAURA and MARY: 37.

LAURA: And one more.

TRAVIS: No, that's five.

MATT: That was five. Then you roll a 1d6 on top of
that.

MARY: Plus two on that.

MATT: All right, so 38, then a d6 from your Hex.

MARY: Six.

MATT: So 44 points of damage.

LAURA: Nice!

MATT: As it once again, a giant piece of the
dragon's scales shatter off the side, like you're

cracking into the center of an icy, mountainous
cragside. It's starting to show a little bit of

damage. You guys are definitely taking this battle
head-on pretty well so far.

TRAVIS: I don't like the way he said that.

MATT: You're going to stay where you are, or are
you going to move?

MARY: How close am I to it?

MATT: You're currently 20 feet away from the
dragon. 15 is between the two of you.

MARY: All right. I stay within 30 feet of it.

MATT: All right, so you want to move this way?

MARY: I want to get up to the heavens. Oh, sorry.
I'm going to actually, you know what? I'm going to

move three feet backwards, that's it.

MATT: Okay, so you just step back? Okay. There you
go. All right. That ends Zahra's turn. Scanlan,

you're up.

SAM: How close am I?

MATT: You are currently about 20 feet away from
the dragon.

SAM: All right. Yes. Hi. Scanlan here. I'll do,
(singing) It's Bigby's Hand! Bigby's Hand.

Shamone. I'll just punch him in his dragon face.

MATT: (laughs) Okay. You do a quick little hand
gesture, hum to yourself the arcane ritual, and a

very large, mystical see-through replica of your
fist appears in the air above you and goes

spinning off in the air in an arc. Straight up
Popeye-punching towards the dragon. (laughs) Let's

go ahead, and Bigby-- what do you have to roll for
that?

SAM: Oh, I have to roll for that?

MATT: Let me see what the effect is on that,
remind myself real fast. Bigby's Hand. All right,

so it's an AC of 20. Or no, that's the hand, all
right. Clenched fist, cool. So make a melee spell

attack. So roll a d20 and then add your spell
attack modifier.

SAM: That's the spell attack bonus thing? Okay.
19.

MATT: 19. (wham) Just barely hits as the fist goes
slamming into the side of the dragon's face, big

old Popeye punch to the side of the jaw. So go
ahead and roll 4d8 points of force damage.

SAM: 4d8. I'm taking yours, and I hope that's
okay. Ten, 13, 18, 21. Plus something?

MATT: That's 21 points of damage, nice. (whack) It
gets socked in the jaw. The hand whips around

again, preparing for the next round. Do you want
to use anything, move, use your bonus action?

SAM: I'm 20 feet away. I will go 18 feet away from
it and drop the grenade.

MATT: Okay. So you move forward right here?

SAM: Yeah, closer to it.

MATT: Okay. The grenade is right there on the
ground that Percy made. All right. Going to stay

where you are?

SAM: Can I keep moving?

MATT: You can keep moving. You moved 18 feet
backward, you mean?

SAM: No, I had to move closer to it.

MATT: Right, so you moved three feet of your 25
feet, dropped it, and you still have 22 feet you

can move.

SAM: But if I leave, he's going to whack me.

MATT: No, he's this far away. You have to be
within a certain range for him to hit you.

SAM: Wait, how close did I put the grenade to
him?

MATT: It's currently 18 feet away from him.

SAM: No, I wanted to put it two feet away from
him.

MATT: Oh, I see! There, that makes more sense. So
now there is a grenade on the ground, right there.

You are there, right next to Grog. So yeah, you
cannot move away without it taking a swipe.

TRAVIS: Oh, look at that.

SAM: Hello, I'm a little gnome.

TRAVIS: It's adorable.

MATT: All right. That ends your turn. The giant
that's here gets up. That's half of its movement.

It's enough to get there, moves up behind and is
going to make two of its axe-swipes.

MARY: Hit him in the arse!

FELICIA: Butthole.

SAM: That was crass.

MATT: 15 doesn't hit. Second attack is going to be
a 13. It's rolling shit. It swings twice and

manages to catch air.

FELICIA: The most useless giant.

MATT: Apparently. But you know what, they didn't
smash you yet. That's a good thing. That brings us

to Lyra's turn.

FELICIA: Question. Can I Fireball without hitting
anybody who's friendly?

MATT: From this point of view, it's going to be
very difficult to pull that off. It's a 20-foot

radius, so it's going to hit everything within
that sphere.

TRAVIS: Oh, you actually care about us that much?

MARY: Can I use-- everybody is really close. All
right.

FELICIA: Okay, so I can't do that. I think I'm
going to cast Hold Monster.

MATT: Hold Monster! You take your arcane thoughts
and you put them around, imagining this arcane

cage that begins to form out of the ether around
the dragon. These bars (crash) and tighten around

it. The dragon rolls a two for its saving throw.

(cheering)

MATT: But it's going to use its Legendary
Resistance to automatically succeed.

FELICIA: How many of those does he have?!

TRAVIS: He has one more.

FELICIA: I need to move.

MATT: (laughs) The cage tightens around it, and
the dragon takes its wings and (shattering) buffs

it off, the arcane cage shatters and disappears
into the air.

FELICIA: I was going to be impressive. Okay. I'm
going to get the H out. I'm going to get as far as

I can in that corner. Yeah, thank you. Bye-bye.

MATT: All righty. Good to know. All right, that
ends your turn. That brings us back to the top.

Percy, you're up.

TALIESIN: Okay, I'm going to-- That grenade is
sitting on top of people right now, isn't it?

MATT: Yeah.

TRAVIS: You mean that hamster, right?

MATT: Your call, man.

TRAVIS: Come on, live a little.

TALIESIN: It's going to hit you.

TRAVIS: Well, that's all right.

LAURA: Yeah, but it's also going to hit Scanlan.

MATT: You still have disadvantage on your attacks,
by the way.

TALIESIN: Even if my attack is not against the
dragon?

MATT: As long as it's within eyesight of you,
you're scared.

TALIESIN: Okay, in that case, I'm going to take a
shot at the dragon for the moment.

MATT: Okay.

TALIESIN: Forget about that.

MATT: Disadvantage on the shot.

TALIESIN: 19.

MATT: 19. That's with disadvantage? Does hit.

(cheering)

TALIESIN: Oh, that's nice. 26 points of damage.

MATT: 26 points of damage, nice.

SAM: Hey! Percy.

TALIESIN: I have moments.

MATT: All right, and you reload with the other
one. You can't move closer to it. Do you wish to

move at all?

TALIESIN: No, I'm going to hold my position.

MATT: Okay. Before the end of your turn--

TALIESIN: I was about to say, before I do that,
I'm going to use a bonus action to do a quick

heal. I'm going to use second wind.

MATT: Oh, a second wind, go for it. So you go
ahead and heal yourself 1d10 plus your level.

TALIESIN: That's 11 points of damage.

MATT: There you go. So you heal 11 points of
damage. Before your turn is over, it's going to

use its last legendary action to take its tail and
swing around and whack it at the gnome that it

heard sneak up behind it and drop something on the
ground. That's going to be a natural 20.

(shouting)

LAURA: He said it so happily, too. Evil.

TALIESIN: You're in trouble.

SAM: Wait, what did he do?

MATT: As you drop it, you look up and see its tail
go (whoosh, whack).

SAM: Whoa, but can I sing real quick?

MATT: It's a natural 20. There's no way you can
avoid this hit.

SAM: Maybe it'll fling me away from the grenade.

FELICIA: (singing) Bye bye bye.

TRAVIS: No, not cool!

MATT: 36 points of bludgeoning damage as the tail
slams down onto you.

LAURA: And also onto the grenade.

SAM: But it's not a concussion grenade.

TRAVIS: Oh, I'm right fucking there! I was going
to move!

LAURA: I'm sorry!

MATT: And down onto the grenade you set on the
ground. (boom)

SAM: Is it a concussion grenade? It's already
armed, isn't it?

MATT: It is filled with black powder, and is a
triggerable mechanism.

LAURA: I'm sorry. I don't know why I said that.

MATT: I appreciate the reminder, because I totally
forgot for a second. As it slams into you and the

ground, it slams into the grenade and there's an
explosion muffled sound from underneath its tail.

I want Grog and Scanlan to go ahead and make
dexterity saving throws.

TRAVIS: Yes! 21.

LAURA: Come on, Scanlan.

SAM: 20.

MATT: All right. Both of you guys manage to keep
low to the ground, avoiding most of the blast.

SAM: I'm already low to the ground.

MATT: All right. Both of you guys take half damage
from the strike. You both take 12 points of fire

and bludgeoning damage.

LAURA: Did the dragon take damage?

MATT: The dragon does not make its saving throw
against it, though, and takes the full-- what'd I

tell you guys? 12?

SAM: All right! The grenade worked!

(cheering)

MATT: Pulls its tail up, and there's like a big
arc of smoke off of its tail as it pulls it up and

shakes out the pain that it just suffered.

TALIESIN: Can I take this moment of engineering
success to try and pull a wisdom saving throw

against my fear that I missed on my turn?

MATT: That's right, forgot that. So go ahead and
make your wisdom saving throw. The explosion was

the inspiration you required.

TALIESIN: Natural 20!

(cheering)

TALIESIN: It worked! (cackles)

MATT: With the explosion the grenade set off, you
realize, wait, you might actually have this, and

it worked! You could do this!

TALIESIN: I built a thing! And it blew up! Kind of
on purpose!

MATT: There you go. At the end of your turn,
that's its final legendary action.

Vex, you're up.

LAURA: Can I try to shake off the attack?

MATT: At the end of your turn, you do.

LAURA: Oh, at the end. But I was inspired by that
explosion!

MATT: It was inspiring. It may help you shake it
off at the end of the round.

LAURA: Okay. I'm going to attack it. Oh, that's
such a good roll.

MARY: That is. Oh, that's even better!

LAURA: That's okay. It was a disadvantage. That's
27 with a disadvantage with the exploding arrow.

MATT: With the Exploding Arrow? That does hit.

TRAVIS: More Percy goodness.

LAURA: So what do I do? Do I just roll regular?

MATT: So go ahead and roll regular arrow damage.
With an additional 2d6. Sorry, 3d6. Well, with the

arrow, it's 2d6. The grenade was 3d6. You're 2d6.

LAURA: Oh shit. 16 and then 3d6?

MATT: 3d8, sorry.

LAURA: 3d8?!

MATT: Sorry. 3d8 was the grenade. 2d8 for the
exploding arrow. 2d8.

LAURA: 2d8.

MATT: Sorry. It's a lot of numbers.

LAURA: That's okay, I'm going to roll them both.
Okay. Six additional. Did I say what my other

damage was. Was I speaking out loud?

MATT: Yeah, no. I marked it down. I also need
Scanlan and Grog to make dexterity saving throws.

LAURA: Oh no, I'm sorry, I'm stupid!

SAM: Wait, what did you just shoot at us?

LAURA: An exploding arrow!

SAM: Nice.

TRAVIS: 18.

SAM: 11.

MATT: Okay.

LAURA: I also meant to say I was shooting from my
Blood-Seeker Bow. I pulled it out and said I was

going to do it.

MATT: You pull out your Blood-Seeker Bow?

LAURA: I was going to shoot from my Blood-Seeker
Bow for that.

MATT: Okay.

LAURA: Can I do that?

MATT: I'll let it. So it is now taking an ongoing
ten points of bleeding damage? Now, you take three

points of fire damage. Scanlan, you take six
points of fire damage. You guys avoid the grenade,

and then (arrow noises) a second explosion again.

TALIESIN: I'm sorry. I'm a genius! I'm sorry!
Sorry! Oh god, I'm clever.

LAURA: So for my second attack, I want to throw
Trinket in and I want Trinket to

go up and attack him.

MATT: Trinket rushes in and is going to make two
attacks at it.

LAURA: He's going to do two claw attacks, so
that's 2d4 each time.

MATT: Go for it. So go ahead and roll for the
first strike. He's no longer scared, so Trinket

does not have the disadvantage.

LAURA: Okay, he doesn't hit on the first one. But
the second one, he gets a 21!

MATT: 21 hits. Go ahead and roll damage.

LAURA: Yes! Okay. Was I wrong?

MARY: That's 23.

LAURA: Oh, okay. Either way.

MATT: It hits even harder!

MARY: It hits harder?

MATT: (Irish accent) Exactly. What's that about?
Rightly so.

LAURA: That's 13 extra damage for Trinket.

MATT: 13 extra damage as Trinket runs up, first
strike hits the armor and just streaks across

without damage, but as soon as the dragon turns
around to see the giant brown bear that has gotten

brave enough to strike it, its other claw goes and
sinks into the side of one of its calves and tears

a portion of the dragon's flesh. It (snarls) roars
and Trinket, bringing its claw down, roars back at

it. Dragon roar versus bear roar. All right. That
ends your turn. It is now Rimefang's turn.

Rimefang--

MARY: He has no more of these legendary saves,
yes?

SAM: No, he has one.

MATT: Well, one more legendary resistance.

FELICIA: He used a wing-buffet and then two
saves.

SAM: He's got one more.

FELICIA: Oh, one more save. Ugh.

SAM: If he chooses to use it. He might save it for
later in the fight.

MATT: Great. So the dragon is now going to
(flapping) fly--

SAM: No, he won't. I cast a spell on it as it
retreats from me because I am a war caster.

MATT: Okay.

SAM: And I will cast Bigby's Hand to grapple that
shit and pull him back down.

(cheering)

MATT: That's right, you took the war caster feat.
Okay.

SAM: Don't you fly away from me, motherfucker!

TRAVIS: So hot for you right now.

MATT: All right, so you use your action to do
Bigby's Clenched, no, Grasping Hand. No, it's--

SAM: It's the grapple one to pull its wings
together so it can't fly away?

MATT: Yes. All right, so. So you use the hand's
strength score, so go ahead and roll a d20 and

then add plus eight to it.

SAM: 18 plus eight. 26.

MATT: As the dragon brings its wings up, the hand
grabs its wings together and forces it back down

to the ground. It shakes off the effect, but it's
unable to fly away.

SAM: You will leave when Burt Reynolds tells you
to leave!

(laughter)

MATT: Okay. You also deal 2d6 plus five damage to
it.

SAM: 2d6. That's another 18.

MATT: 18 points of damage as the hand crushes on
it, holding it in place, it does not get a chance

to move. All right. Angrily, in reaction to that,
the dragon-- well, first off let me see. Does not

get its breath weapon back yet, unfortunately. It
is going to use multiattack, so it gets three

attacks: one bite and two claw attacks. It's going
to make all of them against you.

SAM: Of course it does. And thus ends Scanlan.

TRAVIS and MARY: No!

MATT: We'll make each attack as it goes. So the
first attack against you is going to be the bite

attack. That is a 23 to hit?

SAM: That hits.

MATT: All right.

LAURA: Are you unconscious?

SAM: I will be very soon.

MATT: That's going to be 18 points of piercing
damage.

LAURA: Oh no, Scanlan's unconscious!

MATT: Are you unconscious? Okay. It would be an
additional d8 points of cold damage. Scanlan falls

unconscious on the ground. It's going to take a
claw attack down. It's already all-in. Its second

claw attack hits. You immediately fail a death
saving throw from the second strike. The second

claw attack hits you, as well, as it's focused on
you. You've failed two death saving throws.

LAURA: Oh my god!

SAM: It's a dragon.

MATT: That's the end of his turn. Grog, you're
up.

TRAVIS: I race over to Scanlan and I pour a
level-3 healing potion into Scanlan's mouth.

MATT: Okay, so Grog, you use your action to pull
out, grab Scanlan, and pour it into his mouth.

This is the superior one?

TRAVIS: Yes.

MATT: You heal 8d4 plus eight hit points.

SAM: Do I roll? Does he roll?

MATT: I'll let you roll for it; it's fine.

SAM: 8d4? Can I roll 4d8s?

MATT: (laughs) 8d4.

SAM: 8d4.

MATT: You have a better chance, actually.

TRAVIS: This is my friend of the lady favors. I
need him!

MATT: As you see the dragon bites down on him, he
falls unconscious on the ground, the ice around

his wounds, and his eyes just roll back into his
head, unconscious. One claw slams down into his

body, the gnome shakes from the impact. The second
claw comes down into his torso and pulls back, you

can see bits of flesh and muscle pull back from
its claw as it pulls away, and Scanlan's on

death's door. You rush over and grab and lift him
up, take the healing potion, pop off the cork with

your teeth, and you rage-feed him the potion.
"Drink it!"

SAM: I'm at 19 now.

MATT: So you're at 19 hit points and you're
conscious now, the wounds seal up. You've still

failed two death saving throws. They're gone until
the end of the battle.

TRAVIS: Can I do anything else after I've poured
it into his-- can I do anything else?

MATT: You have a bonus action.

TRAVIS: Can I throw him the fuck away from the
dragon? Pick him up and chuck him towards Lyra?

MATT: I'll say because you're frenzied raged,
normally you would get an additional attack. I

will say you can use that.

TRAVIS: And I won't throw. I'll slide him on the
icy floor towards Lyra.

MATT: Okay. Go ahead and make an athletics check.

TRAVIS: Okay. Natural 20.

(cheering)

MATT: As he wakes up, Grog goes (grunts, whoosh)
and slip-n-slides you across the icy floor. You

come to a stop about 15 feet away-- actually, be
about there. You're still prone; you're on the

ground.

LAURA: But you can take a potion on your turn, at
least?

TRAVIS: And I just turn around and give it the
eyebrow of you're-fucking-dead.

MATT: (laughs) All right. That ends Grog's turn.
Zahra, you're up.

MARY: Witch Bolt. Fucking Witch Bolt.

MATT: By the way, your Bigby's Hand has faded,
because when you fell unconscious you lost

concentration. Witch Bolt?

MARY: If you're still within range. I push even
harder for Scanlan's sake.

MATT: All right. Go ahead and roll 5d12, I believe
it is?

MARY: The fire turns from white to yellow. I'm
raging. What is it?

MATT: Whatever the spell is. Is it 5d10 or
5d12?

MARY: It is 5d12.

MATT: There you go. 5d12 plus 1d6.

MARY: Eight. Give me some math here, guys.

TRAVIS: Okay. 14. 29. 45.

MARY: 45 plus two.

LAURA: 47.

MARY: Plus 11 attack.

LAURA: No, 47, and 1d6.

MARY: 1d6. Six.

MATT: All right, so what's the total damage on
that, then?

LAURA: 53.

MARY: 51.

MATT: 51 points of damage.

TRAVIS: Did I best you on math? It's a dark day
when Grog beats Vex on math.

MARY: She's very upset about the whole Scanlan
thing.

LAURA: I'm still very scared!

MATT: That is nasty. All right, so. As you blast
again, the fury of seeing Scanlan torn down to the

ground and nearly devoured by this dragon, you
blast again. This time the greenish-blue energy

flaring up into a vibrant, angry yellow, and now
you can see what once was almost like a bolt of

arcane moon energy becomes an actual burning fire
in its visual. Do you wish to move, or are you

going to stay where you are?

MARY: I'm still how many feet away from him?

MATT: You are currently 20 feet away from him.

MARY: I will stay where I am.

MATT: All right.

MARY: Can I give-- no I can't, I'd have to go and
give it to him, wouldn't I?

MATT: At the end of your turn, because it's
regained its legendary actions, it's going to use

a wing attack against Grog and every creature
around it, including Trinket and the one giant. So

as it takes the hit from the Witch Bolt, (heavy
breathing) the arcane hand no longer grasping its

wings, its wings flare out, (whoosh) and swings
around with its wings, hitting everything around

you. Dexterity saving throw for Grog, for the
giant, and for Trinket. Giant does not make it.

TRAVIS: 18.

MATT: 18, it's a DC 19. Make it for Trinket.

LAURA: Ten.

MATT: All right, so Trinket and Grog both take 13
points of bludgeoning damage and are both knocked

prone.

TRAVIS: Halved, because I'm raging.

LAURA: Halved, because he's got Stoneskin.

MATT: Yeah. Trinket takes half damage, as well. So
you both take seven points of bludgeoning damage,

but you're still knocked prone. You both fall onto
your back. The giant also is knocked prone there.

All right. That ends Zahra's turn. That brings us
to Scanlan. You're conscious. You're on the

ground.

SAM: I will stand.

MATT: All right. So you still have half your
movement. You can still move roughly ten feet. Any

direction.

SAM: Taking a potion is an action or a bonus?

MATT: I consider it a bonus action to keep things
moving. Action to administer it to somebody else.

TRAVIS: Do that thing.

SAM: I will Dimension Door way over there.

MATT: (laughs) Okay. Scanlan stands up, waves his
hand, and this blackened archway just (whoosh)

appears next to him with this crackling sound of
energy. He leaps through it and vanishes out of

sight. You are now in darkness, you cannot see
anything except for a little bit of light bouncing

off of the top of the cavern, glittering across
all the ice crystals, but you are in complete

shadow. (breathing heavily)

SAM: And I'll take one of those four healing
potions that someone gave us. Were they moderate?

MATT: They were superior. I think Grog used one.

FELICIA: Yeah, we handed them out.

SAM: Okay, I definitely have one, so I'll take
it.

MATT: 8d4 plus eight.

LAURA: Who all took them?

MARY: I didn't, because I have two.

FELICIA: I don't think she and I took them.

LAURA: Oh, the four of us, because we're
assholes?

MATT: I think you each took one.

FELICIA: I sacrificed myself.

MATT: So we'll consider that. It's fine. All
right, so that ends Scanlan's turn. The giant is

going to get up.

TRAVIS: Get up, Gary, you piece of shit!

MATT: That would be a 21. That hits. And that'll
be a 17. That misses. But it does manage to hit

with an attack, finally. This whole time. That's
24 points of slashing damage to the dragon. As its

first strike whiffs, and as it brings it back with
a backhand, it brings its shield up to protect

itself. The axe (smack) lands a good seven to
eight inches into the dragon's hide. (roars) The

head turns around. "You traitor! I will eat every
one of you!" That ends the giant's turn. It's

going to stay right there, trying to finish him
off. That ends the giant's turn. Lyra, you're up.

FELICIA: I still can't Fireball, right?

MATT: You could? Depending on where you want to
place it, you may hit other things.

LAURA: You can place it-- hit the giant and the
dragon.

FELICIA: Then the giant will wake up. If we hit
the giants-- does he look almost dead?

MATT: You can tell he's taken a few hits from the
dragon, but the other one is the one that was

completely wrecked.

LAURA: Is the other giant dead?

MATT: It is frozen in place and dead. It was
partially disintegrated by Lyra earlier, and the

frost breath finished it off.

FELICIA: I could maybe hit Trinket or Grog?

SAM: Trinket's protected.

FELICIA: I don't think he's protected from fire
damage. It's a lot of damage. I don't want to kill

Trinket.

TRAVIS: Is it fire, and it's a frost dragon?

FELICIA: It's a very big spell. It's 8d6. Can't
really use it. I'll try to Hold Monster again.

LAURA: How much radius does the dragon take up?

MATT: The dragon itself is 15 feet across on each
side, so if you were to hit the dragon, it would

still hit everything directly around it.

FELICIA: Yeah, let me try to Hold Monster again.
At least force him to use his thing.

MATT: All right. Actually, he fails his saving
throw, but uses his third and final legendary

resistance to resist the Hold Monster spell.

TALIESIN: Good, you drained it. That's over with.

MATT: He's out of legendary resistance. He turns
around and looks at you now. It was currently

glaring at the giant, growling at everyone around
it, and as soon as that spell hits it with the

cage once again, (heavy impacts) it breaks it with
its wings and turns around, (whoosh) and opens its

mouth right towards you.

FELICIA: I'm going to move away as far as I can.

MATT: Okay. So you are here.

FELICIA: Yes. That's very far. Yes. Thank you.

MATT: Okay. All right, that ends your turn. Back
up to Percy.

TALIESIN: All right, I'm going to take one last
really good shot. I'm going to shoot him right in

the face again. I'm going to spend my grit point
and hit him in the face. Let's make this work.

Yay! That hits. That's 31 to hit.

MATT: 31 will hit, yeah. Go ahead and roll
damage.

TALIESIN: I'm going to roll damage. That's 15
points of damage, but he's got disadvantage on all

attacks until my turn.

MATT: He did take ten points of bleeding damage
from your-- Laura. It did take ten points of

bleeding damage from your bow, and it does save
against the bleed effect, so that's gone,

unfortunately. But you did ten additional damage
to him.

TALIESIN: I'm going to move in this direction. Hug
the wall.

MATT: Right there?

TALIESIN: Yeah, I think right there.

MATT: Okay. So as you take your shot, (gunshot) it
ricochets off the armor. The dragon's starting to

look a little rough. You can see bits of the blood
beginning to seep from the inside of its scales.

It's starting to look a little harsher and
harsher. It's still standing up pretty well, but

you can see, it's starting to get a little more
battle-worn. That ends Percy's turn.

Vex, you're up.

LAURA: Me?

MATT: Yes.

LAURA: Okay, I'm going to move Trinket away.

MATT: Trinket stands up, and Trinket's going to
move back this way.

LAURA: Yeah, and then hide behind that outcropping
thing. Yeah.

MATT: Okay. As he moves away, the dragon uses his
reaction. It's going to be a bite attack on him,

actually.

TALIESIN: With disadvantage.

MATT: With disadvantage?

TALIESIN: With disadvantage.

MATT: Oh, because of the head shot. Yeah. Well, it
rolled a two and a 15.

(cheering)

MATT: So thank god you put that on there. So as it
(whoosh) lashes out, Trinket's armor actually

takes the impact, and some of the teeth crack a
little bit against the armor, and the jaw pulls

back as Trinket just (bear moan) runs off behind
the ice wall. What are you doing?

LAURA: I'm going to cast Hail of Thorns.

MATT: Did you make a wisdom save last turn to try
to resist the fear effect?

LAURA: I did, and I failed it.

MATT: That's right. Okay.

LAURA: Yeah. So I'm going to cast Hail of Thorns
on the dragon.

MATT: Okay. Go ahead and roll for attack.

LAURA: 26.

MATT: 26 hits, yes. Hail of Thorns. What's the
radius on that?

LAURA: That's a good question. Hail of Thorns.

MATT: (laughs) How's that go?

LAURA: Okay, wait. Next time you hit a creature
with a ranged weapon-- spell-- range. It just hits

it, but then everything within five feet makes a
dexterity saving throw. Sorry, guys.

MATT: So Grog, make a dexterity saving throw.
Because you're prone, I'd say with disadvantage.

LAURA: Oh. Sorry, Grog.

TRAVIS: Nine?

MATT: Actually, you're fine. Just straight roll.

TRAVIS: Oh, great. 18.

MATT: 18? All right. You take half of the 1d10
piercing damage. So roll for the actual arrow

damage, and then 1d10. The giant does not make it,
and the dragon does not make it. They both fail.

LAURA: 13 for the actual arrow, plus another five
for Hunter's Mark.

MATT: All right. What's the 1d10 for the Hail of
Thorns?

LAURA: 3d10 because I'm casting it at 3rd level.
18 for the Hail of Thorns.

MATT: 18. So that's nine points of damage to you,
Grog. Nine points to the giant, and nine points to

the dragon. All right.

LAURA: Oh. And then I get another attack.

MATT: You do. You have two attacks.

LAURA: (giggles) This is crazy! Okay, so I'm going
to-- should I do Conjure Barrage? Conjure Barrage

at them, as well.

MATT: All right. Conjure Barrage is an action to
cast, right?

LAURA: Oh, you're right. So a regular. I can only
do a regular attack. Okay, so regular attack. Oh,

that doesn't hit. That's a 16.

MATT: That unfortunately does not hit. Well, it
hits, but the arrow shatters across the dragon's

armor. All right, that ends your turn. As the
giant takes a blasting impact of thorns across its

torso, it looks to the dragon, Rimefang. Looks at
the rest of you, which some of you have fallen,

some of you are on the ground. It decides that
perhaps it chose its alliances poorly. And you can

see, it takes its axe and shield ready, and almost
in a phalanx format is now alongside the dragon.

All right, that brings us to Rimefang's turn.
Rimefang is going to (flapping) fly up in the

air.

TRAVIS: Oh, he's reaching for shit. He duplicates
himself into another dragon. Now you're all dead.

MATT: Now he's going to--

TRAVIS: Oh no, the ale's gone!

MATT: This way, up at the top, and is currently up
in the air (flapping). Let's see. He gets his cold

breath back. Oh, did you roll to try and shake the
frightened effect, by the way?

LAURA: I didn't.

MATT: Go ahead and do that now.

MARY: Come on, darling. Come on!

LAURA and TRAVIS: Natural 20!

MATT: That will do it. As you shake the frightened
effect, you're like, "Ah! All right." You're

steeled. "No, I know these guys. I'm trying to
kill these guys." As you see it fly overhead.

Rears back its head and then (whoosh) arc across
the ground with its breath weapon, hitting Percy,

Vex, and Lyra. You guys all need to make
constitution saving throws.

TALIESIN: Oh, so there's no disadvantage roll for
him to make here, is there?

MATT: No.

FELICIA: 23.

MATT: 23 on the constitution saving throw?

FELICIA: Yeah, I actually. I get five
constitution, and I rolled an 18.

TALIESIN: 15.

MATT: 15? What did you roll, Vex?

LAURA: 18.

MATT: 18. All right. (chuckles) So as the ice
breath (whoosh) passes across, it's like every

center point of the worst ice storm or blizzard
impacting you with a series of punches every

single second as this breath caresses and beats
your body left and right. Both of you guys take 54

points of cold damage.

TALIESIN: 54?

MATT: 54. Lyra, you take 27 points of cold
damage.

TRAVIS: And the room gets quiet.

MARY: Really fast.

MATT: It continues its flight pattern (flapping,
impacts) and lands on top of this upper platform.

LAURA: Oh, he's got another fucking platform?

SAM: How high up?

MATT: That's ten feet up. There are two platforms
on opposite sides of this room now. That ends its

turn. It is now Grog's turn.

TRAVIS: That giant is definitely against us?

MATT: It looks to be questioning its loyalty at
the moment, yeah.

TRAVIS: You questioned at the wrong time. I charge
Gary and hack away.

MATT: All right. You get up, and you have enough
movement, definitely, to move up into battle with

him. Go ahead and attack.

TRAVIS: (laughs) What do I do, again? What is this
shit? This thing plus five. 16. No, attack bonus.

MATT: You have to hit first. You have to roll to
hit.

TRAVIS: I know. Jesus! It's like I've never done
this before. 24.

LAURA: No, that was higher than 24.

TRAVIS: 16 plus nine? Oh, it's 25.

MATT: Hits. Roll a second attack.

TRAVIS: 28.

MATT: Hits.

TRAVIS: And 20.

MATT: 20 hits. Roll damage against the giant.

TRAVIS: (quietly) What is this, 1d10 plus five?
Oh, that's ten. 18. 18?

LAURA: Plus six fire damage.

TRAVIS: Oh.

LAURA: Six!

TRAVIS: 24 on the first one.

MATT: Nice.

TRAVIS: Sorry, new math. 13 plus-- 17 on the
second one.

MATT: All right, and the third one?

TRAVIS: 12, plus-- 15 on the third one.

MATT: As you rush forward, (whack, whack) the
first two hits, one hits in the side, and you can

see it (grunts) reacts. The second one, it brings
its shield up, and you splinter the buckler shield

on its arm, and as it shatters, you can see the
bones in its arm (crunch) crack from the impact,

and it drops its arm to one side, with the flames
itself beginning to set fire to the furs it has on

its arm. (grunts) He tries to shake off the fire
that's on its arm. As you see it bring its arm up,

it reveals the underside of its torso. You use
that to reach down, leap in the air with an

overhead swipe, slam this warhammer with all your
strength into the side of its ribcage. As you do,

(crack) you can see its torso cave in, and you're
probably sure that the splintered bones seem to

have impacted something serious as the giant all
of a sudden, (death rattle).

(cheering)

MARY: Dead? Dead!

MATT: From the damage left over from the battle
you had earlier, the damage it already took from

the dragon, and that was just enough to finish it
off by two hit points. That ends your turn, Grog.

Zahra, you're up.

MARY: How far away from the dragon am I?

MATT: You are 30 feet away.

MARY: That's exactly right, which means Witch Bolt
is still in effect, and I'm going to fucking

unleash on this white wyrm of death.

MATT: All right! (boof) A third time, now, you
release Witch Bolt. It slams into it. The dragon

actually tries to shift out of the way--

MARY: He can't.

MATT: He can't, because you're locked in.

MARY: You can't get away from me.

MATT: Go ahead and roll damage.

LAURA: Creepy Zahra!

MARY: Creepy Zahra. Well, I am a demon. All right.
11.

TRAVIS: 27. 39. 48. 1d6. 53.

MARY: 53.

FELICIA: Damn!

TRAVIS: You bad bitch!

MATT: All right, so. It tries to dodge out of the
way. This time, as you focus again, the yellowish

energy has now transitioned to a deep, hot,
searing red flame from your eyes.

MARY: Oh, you can't run!

MATT: (boof) You focus again. The beam now,
transitioning into a similar red-hot color,

streaks across and slams into the side of the
dragon. You can see the impact. The scales are

left with this glowing red heat from the blast,
and part of its armor is torn open. You can see

the burn-charred muscle beneath. The dragon's
looking pretty rough. Do you wish to move, or are

you staying right there?

MARY: I'm going to approach it by five feet.

MATT: There you go. That brings us to Scanlan's
turn. You are way over here.

SAM: I will first use my bonus action on myself.
Can I cast Healing Word on myself?

MATT: Yeah. Sure.

SAM: Okay, d4 plus five. That's nothing. Actually,
wait. Can I just take a potion as a bonus action?

MATT: If you want to, yeah.

SAM: Okay, I'll just do that. I'll take a greater
heal. 4d4 plus four.

MATT: All righty.

SAM: Anyway, I'll roll it later. Sorry. (counts
quietly) Plus four is 11. Okay, I'm pretty much

back up to--

MATT: There you go. Are you going to stay where
you are?

SAM: I'm how far?

MATT: You are over here.

SAM: But how far?

MATT: Oh. It's 90 feet away from you.

SAM: (whispering) Sniper shot. (louder) From the
shadows, I cast Lightning Bolt, which has a

hundred-foot range.

MATT: It does, and because it's high enough--

SAM: If the angle is nice and clean.

MATT: Yes, that's true. So out of the darkness,
release a bolt of energy. It's going to attempt to

make a saving throw. What's the DC on it?

SAM: It's my spell? What is it?

MATT: Yeah, it's whatever your spell DC is.

SAM: 17?

MATT: 17, okay. It does make its saving throw, so
it is half damage. Go ahead and roll. Rolled a 16

plus five.

SAM: It was 8d6, but now it's 4d6, right?

MATT: No, it's 8d6 still. You roll the total, and
it's halved.

SAM: All right, what is that? (counts quietly) 26.
13.

MATT: All right.

TRAVIS: Yes, dude. Way not to be dead.

FELICIA: Way to not die.

TRAVIS: I need my whoring partner.

MATT: All right, at the end of your turn, it's
going to use one of its legendary actions to make

a tail attack and reach over the side here at
Percy, who's trying to stay hidden there. Brings

around his tail. (whoosh) Comes swinging down over
the side. Another natural 20.

(groaning)

FELICIA: He looks disappointed.

LAURA: He doesn't want us to die.

FELICIA: It's going to happen.

MARY: No! Would you stop it, Lyra? Come on!

FELICIA: I'm sorry. I have self-esteem issues.

MARY: Not today, you don't.

MATT: 32 points of bludgeoning damage to you,
Percy. (whack) From over the top.

TALIESIN: I'm out.

MATT: Percy is down as the tail (whack) slams him
down. You can see now, as the tail pulls back, the

ice on the ground is slightly concave. There's
pieces of ice that have shattered and jutted up

from the impact. As the tail pulls away, dropping
chunks of stone and ice, you can see a

currently unconscious Percy is now face-down and
pushed probably a good half-foot into the ground

itself. Your face is a mess, if they ever pull you
up from that right now.

TALIESIN: I like my face.

MATT: That ends Scanlan's turn. The giant is dead.
There are no giants; they're gone. Lyra, you're

up.

FELICIA: Okay, I can Fireball him now.

(cheering)

FELICIA: Fireball. Ooh, that looks pretty good!
Six and six and six.

LAURA: Come on, Lyra. Killing blow.

TRAVIS: Nuke him. Nuke the bastard.

FELICIA: So that's 18, 28, 38, 52. 52 points of
damage.

MATT: 52 points? And what's the DC on your spell?

FELICIA: It's no DC. It just hits.

MATT: Right, but it has a save.

FELICIA: 17.

MATT: 17. Okay, it rolled a 15 plus five, so it is
half damage, but that's still 26 points of damage

to it.

FELICIA: It's not bad.

MATT: (explosion noise) As you reach out, this
arcing bead of red streaks through the darkness,

impacts right at the side of the dragon's wing,
and then (boof) bursts into a giant ball of flame.

The whole cavern rocks from the sound of the
impact. As the dragon pulls back, you can see this

giant char mark on the outside of its wing. It's
looking pretty rough. It's still standing, but

it's looking pretty rough. Unfortunately, the
radius of the blast, as it is a 20-foot radius, is

large enough. Percy, his body is hit in the impact
and blasted onto its back now. He rolls partly out

of the impact--

TALIESIN: Do I actually roll?

MATT: You actually (boof) over there. You're still
technically in the same spot, but you're on your

back now. You do automatically fail a death saving
throw from that.

FELICIA: Oh my god, I'm so sorry.

MATT: All right, that ends Lyra's turn. That
brings us to the top. Percy. Make a saving throw.

Just roll a ten or higher.

TALIESIN: I did not roll a ten or higher.

MATT: You fail a second death saving throw.

SAM: Oh god!

MATT: Vex, you're up.

LAURA: (screams) Okay, here's the thing. Did he
roll far enough away that he is not within ten

feet of the dragon?

MATT: The dragon is ten feet up.

LAURA: So he's far enough away.

MATT: In theory, he'd be just out of the way of a
ten-foot radius. A 20-foot radius, no.

LAURA: Okay, then I'm going to Lightning Arrow the
dragon.

MATT: Okay.

FELICIA: Do you have a potion?

TRAVIS: I do.

TALIESIN: Grog's got it.

LAURA: Do I have to attack? I do have to attack
regular.

MATT: You do have to roll the attack, yes.

LAURA: That's good. That's a 29.

MATT: 29 hits.

LAURA: Okay, so that is 4d8 against the dragon.

MATT: Yeah, 4d8 lightning damage. What's the DC on
it?

LAURA: 14.

MATT: 14? It does not make the save. Rolled a
three.

SAM: Come on, Vex. Come on. Do it for Trinket.

TRAVIS: Do it for Percy. Do it for Pike.

TALIESIN: Let's not have another Pike, please.

LAURA: 17.

MATT: Plus your Hunter's Mark.

LAURA: That's good. That's another six for
Hunter's Mark. Plus another 11.

MATT: Plus another 11. Okay. As the arrow
releases, once again, (arrow flying) it turns into

a bolt of pure arcane energy, smacking into the
side of it. You can see the explosion hit and the

energy crackle through the rest of its body. Its
muscles shudder and it has to grasp the side of

the top of this platform to keep itself steady.
You can see now, the dragon's (heavy breathing).

One eye is partially closed, and with each breath
you can see this frost mist emanating from its

breath. It looks like it's on its last legs.

LAURA: For my second attack--

(cheering)

LAURA: For my second attack, I'm going to regular
attack him. Oh my god. Just going to regular

attack him.

MATT: Roll for attack.

LAURA: Jesus. Please. Oh! It's 30.

MATT: 30 hits. Go ahead and roll damage.

LAURA: 13, 14, 15.

MATT: Including the Hunter's Mark?

LAURA: No! Four.

MATT: Okay, so 19 total? Okay. As the arrow (arrow
flying, impacts) embeds itself in the side of the

neck, the dragon reaches up and it's scratching at
the pain. As it pulls the arrow out, blood begins

to pour down its side.

LAURA: Ugh, he's still alive!

MATT: It's rough. That ends your turn.

LAURA: Fuck! Is it his turn?

MATT: It is now Rimefang's turn. Rimefang turns.
(heavy breaths, roars) and lets out a spray of icy

damage out in this direction at an arc this way. I
need to get a dexterity saving throw from Lyra,

from Vex, and from Zahra.

MARY: Do I have a reaction?

MATT: After this, you will.

MARY: Okay, got it.

FELICIA: Eight.

MATT: Eight?

LAURA: 28.

MATT: 28. Okay. Zahra?

MARY: 11.

MATT: 11. Okay, so that is 54 points of damage to
you.

FELICIA: I'm down.

MATT: Lyra is currently (crackles) frozen in
place right now from the blast. She's unconscious,

and there is a coat of ice around her body holding
her in place. How are you doing on hit points?

LAURA: I'm at 28 hit points.

MATT: Okay, you kick the frost off, and you're on
one knee. And you take 54 points of ice damage.

LAURA: Are you unconscious, too?

MARY: Nope. I'm not. Do I have a reaction?

MATT: You have a reaction?

MARY: I do, I use Hellish Rebuke.

SAM: Oh! What is that? It sounds hellish.

MARY: I know. I get one per day.

MATT: All right, so the creature must make a
dexterity saving throw.

LAURA: So it does it back to him?

MARY: Yes.

MATT: That is 15. What's the DC?

MARY: I don't know.

LAURA: 17.

MARY: 17.

MATT: Okay, so it takes 2d10 fire damage. Go ahead
and roll that.

LAURA: Yes! Oh my god, you can kill it just
because it attacked you?!

TALIESIN: Kill it out of spite.

FELICIA: Tell him he's very ugly.

MARY: Nine.

MATT: Nine points of fire damage?

How do you want to do this?

(cheering)

MARY: I don't know what that means!

MATT: How do you finish this dragon with your
Hellish Rebuke?

TALIESIN: Make it good!

MATT: After it finishes blasting you with ice
damage, you watch the wizard frozen in place. You

see Percy unconscious and bleeding on the ground.
You see Vex on the ground, about to fall

unconscious. Your friends are lost in the darkness
around you, and suddenly you feel that tiefling

surge of anger within you, and you?

MARY: Almost completely turn into flame as I walk
towards it. Can I use anything?

MATT: How do you want the Hellish Rebuke to be?

MARY: I want this Hellish Rebuke to be me
levitating in the air and using my dark dragon

staff to blast it from here down, just
eviscerating everything from the bowels down with

hellish fire.

MATT: So after the frost takes on the front of
you, and there is ice caked against the front of

your armor, you suddenly look up at it and as your
eyes flare with flame, the ice (shatters)

evaporates from the sheer heat your body's
emanating. You take a step forward, but the step

itself is about an inch off the ground. A second
step, you're two inches off the ground. And with

each progressive step, you're slowly floating in
the air, the warlock energy now swirling around

you. The shadows are spinning around you and
coalescing around your feet. As you look forward

towards it, you see the portion of its armor that
was blasted open earlier, with its flesh and sinew

exposed. You take the staff forward, and with an
angry snarl, the one last blast of infernal

energy, the Hellish Rebuke then (shooting sound)
sinking into the side of its chest. As the inside

of its flesh begins to spark and smoke, the dragon
(grunts) reaches out and grabs the side. It's

beginning to try to bring its wings up to fly
away, and as it does, (explosion noise) a blast of

infernal flame comes cascading out of its chest.
You can see now, all of its armor begins to peel

back as its chest is blown open. Its eyes
suddenly go from this piercing blue-white to a

dull gray color, and it reaches out, and (heavy
breathing) "No." It tumbles forward onto the

ground next to Percy, almost crushing his
unconscious form. It gets up, (impacts) takes two

more steps forward. "No. You can't."

MARY: Yes, I fucking can!

(cheering)

MATT: And with that, Rimefang falls dead to the
ground.

(cheering)

SAM: I run over to Lyra, cast Seeming on myself to
give myself the appearance of Aldor, and I pour a

potion into her mouth, and I wake her up.

FELICIA: What happened?

SAM: You did good, baby.

FELICIA: (gasps) And I'm just in him.

(laughter)

TRAVIS: I run over to Percy and pour a healing
potion in his mouth, and I don't "in him."

(laughter)

MATT: You can just barely get there with your
movement. Thank god you're a barbarian.

TALIESIN: Oh! What happened? Oh, look. It's dead!

MARY: Hello, Percy.

LAURA: Oh my god. I stand up and I give Zahra a
giant hug.

TALIESIN: Can we cut that bastard up for scrap
now? Ugh.

LAURA: You were amazing.

MARY: Forever besties?

FELICIA: Wait, then I notice. Aldor, why are you
so short?

SAM: Baby. I can't change height, so I release
Seeming and I'm back to normal.

FELICIA: That was not as good a kiss as usual. I
was worried, but it was special.

TRAVIS: Oh!

(laughter)

MARY: Is it time to take what we need from this
thing?

LAURA: Gather up all of the shit we have to take
and put it in the bag of stuff.

TALIESIN: That would be: two white dragon eyes,
one white dragon tongue, one white dragon heart,

six white dragon claws, and 20 white dragon
teeth.

MATT: Who's harvesting this?

MARY: You have the bag.

FELICIA: It's nature. Who has good animal
handling?

LAURA: Wait, we have to harvest it special?

MATT: Part of harvesting the organs from the
creature is a delicate process.

LAURA: Is it nature? What is it a check for?

MATT: It's a nature-based check, yes.

LAURA: I have a low nature. What do you have?

TALIESIN: Very low nature.

MARY: I have a six nature. Can I harvest him?

MATT: You can.

TRAVIS: Can I go and loot the giant that's not
frozen?

MATT: You can. You can also help with this roll.

SAM: Inspiration? Okay. I inspire them.

MATT: How do you inspire Zahra as she goes to
start carving into this dragon?

SAM: I will sing something. I don't know what. I'm
so out of it. We just killed a dragon!

(laughter)

SAM: I go over to her and I'm like, (incoherent,
impressed stammering). And that's all I got.

MATT: And with that, you killed a dragon.

MARY: It was a group effort.

LAURA: Can I help at all? Can I assist? Can I hold
her utensils for her?

MATT: Between the two of you working together,
that would give you advantage on the checks. Which

one are you going for first? Are you going for the
eyes? Choose which portion you're harvesting

first.

LAURA: Everything. We need all of it, don't we?

MATT: Yeah, but which part are you harvesting
first? You choose with each roll. You have eyes,

heart--

FELICIA: Can I assist? Can I help?

MATT: We already have an assist over there.

FELICIA: I want to be helpful.

LAURA: We'll all stand and watch.

TALIESIN: Start with the eyes.

LAURA: Pop them out. Pop those bitches out. But
you get an advantage.

MATT: You will get advantage on it because she's
assisting you.

MARY: That's nine plus--

LAURA: Yeah, that's 15 plus six is 21.

MATT: 21. Okay. As you come over, using a dagger
that you have. Pop very delicately each dragon eye

out and place it into the satchel.

LAURA: Into the cooler bag.

MATT: As you pull each eye out, it's like holding
the coldest orb you've ever held. It actually

burns your fingers as you clutch it. (gasp) Throw
it inside and have to shake your hand off.

LAURA: I jiggle them around in the bag. Just
because.

FELICIA: We have a special crate?

LAURA: Yeah, I'm holding it.

TALIESIN: The tongue would be next.

MATT: All right, go ahead and roll for that.

LAURA: Plus another roll for advantage. Ooh,
that's way better. Plus six. 23.

MATT: 23, all right. So you manage to, with the
help of Vex pulling the jaw open, Grog holding

onto the side, Lyra's supervising. You manage to
get to the base of the tongue, carve off-- And you

(slurp-pop) pull out the rather massive, very
heavy tongue-- which, once again, this in itself,

is like (yelps). Put it in real fast. And in the
process of doing so, you suffer two points of cold

damage, but the tongue has been harvested.

TALIESIN: A heart.

MATT: This one's going to be difficult. Part of
the chest is blown open, exposing the interior,

but there has been damage done to the inside, so
go ahead and attempt this.

TRAVIS: Two rolls.

MARY: 12. 14. Plus six is 20.

MATT: Oh, 20! 20 is just what you needed. You pry
in and crack open a portion of its body, and you

begin to slowly carve out the portion, the heart,
and the dragon heart itself is massive. It's huge,

and it takes three of you to pull it out.

LAURA: How do we fit it in this bag? Is it magic?

MATT: You don't know, but it's not going to fit in
that satchel.

MARY: How heavy is it?

MATT: I'd say it probably weighs a good 200
pounds.

FELICIA: I should know what people would do in the
guild situation if they had an organ that wouldn't

fit in the bag, right? We have to preserve it.

MATT: Travel back quickly or have preservation
magic. Whether it would be a necromancy-based

magic.

FELICIA: Nope.

TRAVIS: We're not shoving it in there? Are we
cutting it in half?

LAURA: We could roll it up in one of our fancy
robes, though, and hold on to it. And pack it in--

oh, we, yeah! Let's chisel out some of the ice.

MATT: As you begin to wrap it up, you notice that
the cold air begins to (cracking) crack around it,

and the heart itself is freezing, as per the
nature of a freshly dead white dragon. So it might

be a good thing.

LAURA: What about all this gold in the cavern?

TALIESIN: Claws and teeth.

MARY: Teeth. Yes, roll to carve. Seven. 13.

MATT: 13. Going through the jaw, you begin
plucking teeth out, piece by piece (cling, cling)

and most of them, you notice, as part of the
nature of the body, are beginning to decay faster

than you expected. A lot of the teeth are becoming
brittle and breaking, and as you start pulling

them out, you're frustrated because with each one
it seems to almost shatter as soon as you claw it

from the jaw. By the end of it, you manage to
gather about three dragon's teeth before the rest

of them begin to break.

TRAVIS: We have a shitload of dragon teeth left
over.

LAURA: But we need white dragon.

TRAVIS: He was a white dragon!

LAURA: Or wait, are you sure it wasn't the blue
dragon that we harvested?

TRAVIS: No, it was a white dragon, we have 37 left
over.

LAURA: Okay. We have 37 dragon teeth from the
first white dragon.

MARY: Can I also get-- if there's any powder left
or anything, for myself, I would like to--

TALIESIN: Claws, still. We have to get claws
still.

MARY: I know, but if it's on the ground, and it's
in front of me, I would just like to put it in my

little bag, to have it for my own spellcasting.

MATT: Okay, go ahead and make a nature roll for
that. Roll two more nature checks, or one more

check, with advantage.

LAURA: Another one.

MARY: That sucks, too. 13.

MATT: Okay. You managed to pull out some of the
more sensitive parts of the dragon, but as you

begin to cut away at some of the scales-- you're
going for the scales or the claws?

MARY: I was going for the powdered-- the remains
of whatever teeth that we couldn't get.

MATT: Oh, that! Never mind then, sorry. So then,
that you can gather without a problem. It's

powdered dragon ice bone, so yeah, that's fine.
All right.

TALIESIN: We still need claws.

LAURA: Let's go for claws.

TRAVIS: One more.

MARY: Nine. 15.

MATT: 15? In beginning to pull out the portions of
its hands and getting the base of where the claw

itself begins to grow, you manage to pull out five
functional dragon claws without them breaking.

MARY: How many did we need, Percy?

TALIESIN: Six. Do we have an extra? We have one?

MATT: You guys, prepared with your bag.

MARY: Hello! Prepared people!

TRAVIS: Oh, I looted the giant.

MATT: All right, you looted the giant.

MARY: Now can we get some scales?

LAURA: Just her? All of us?

MATT: All of you working together to get scales.

FELICIA: All of us? Free for all?

MATT: Well, this is the roll they're making for
it.

LAURA: 20 for scales.

MATT: 20 for scales, okay. So all of you working
together, you manage to pull off what amounts to

about 25 pounds of dragon scales. Mind you, the
scales are heavy and they're about that big each.

It would be enough if you were to bring it to a
master craftsman, to possibly construct a set of

armor from them.

LAURA: That's why we have so many pounds of dragon
scales from the previous dragons! We could make

three sets of armor right now.

FELICIA: I'm going to look around and just see if
there's a stash or a hoard that he was gathering.

MATT: All right, there are individual gold pieces
embedded all through. It would take you weeks to

chisel it all from the walls.

MARY: Are there any giant gems that we can see?

MATT: Everyone make a perception check.

LAURA: I want to get my diamond back, too, from
earlier.

TRAVIS: Can I loot the bloody giant?

LAURA: Natural 20 for perception! Ooh! Sparklies!

MATT: All right. So Grog. You go over to the giant
that's not frozen. Looking at it, most of its

armor itself is made for a giant's form, much
larger than anything else, and a lot of it has

been shredded by the dragon, or frozen and broken
from the impact and you, cutting it apart with its

axe. For the most part, all you're able to find
off of its body are approximately 120 gold pieces,

which isn't bad. Giants don't really carry a
lot of money on them, usually what they carry on

them is just trophies from battles they fought
previously. At least, these ones here. What did

you roll for perception?

TALIESIN: 16.

FELICIA: 18.

SAM: 11.

MARY: 13.

LAURA: Natural 20.

MATT: So as you guys are looking around, the
cavern seems to be fairly barren. You, however,

Vex, as you walk to the back of the cavern, you
see there are other pieces of partially eaten

frozen bodies. And you, using a little bit of
torchlight you can pull out, and glancing

underneath, you see a little bit of shining, more
of a cluster of shining about seven or eight

inches beneath the ice surface. And you look down
and you can see, there appears to be quite a hoard

of something frozen beneath the surface of this
cavern.

FELICIA: Oh I can help! (blasting sounds) I throw
a Fire Bolt.

MATT: (laughs) You start carving, you're like,
(yelps). Dodge out of the way just in time as

firebolts begin blasting the ice.

FELICIA: 14. 14 points of damage.

MATT: (boom boom) A large chunk of the ice is
blasted out from the Fire Bolt, and you catch your

breath for a second. It's not enough to get all
the way down, but it does manage to blast away a

large portion of the ice.

LAURA: I still have like two points of health,
FYI.

FELICIA: Oh! I'm sorry! You do look so lovely,
though.

MATT: And so between the two of you guys, you take
a dagger, you take your staff and you begin

jamming into the ice. You manage to break it
apart, and you do find beneath there, frozen,

quite a hoard. You find over the next hour or so,
4,244 gold pieces--

TRAVIS and TALIESIN: Whoa!

LAURA: How much?

MATT: 4,244 gold pieces. A cluster of gems worth
around 850 gold. A singular diamond. It's about

that large. It's actually a little bit smaller
than the other one you have, but it's worth

anywhere in the neighborhood of 1,200 gold
pieces. You also manage to find a pair of leather

gloves with almost gold trim around each one of
the joints. You find what looks like a small

leather cap that you pull over the head, that a
peasant would wear, and what looks to be one glass

vial containing an indeterminate liquid.

LAURA: What is the color of the liquid?

MATT: From what you can look at the color, it's
like a purplish-blue.

MARY: Can anybody do a perception check on magical
liquid?

TRAVIS: I would like to perception check the
leather hat.

MATT: Make a perception check.

LAURA: Can anybody do an arcana check on the
leather hat?

MATT: Oh. Do you have Detect Magic?

TRAVIS: 16!

MATT: Or Identify spell?

FELICIA: No. I thought about them.

MATT: Okay. Make an arcana check. Well, you guys
have a brief rest here; it should be fine,

actually. Okay. Looking at it, this is a very
fancy leather hat.

TRAVIS: It's a fancy leather hat. It's mine.
Dibs!

TALIESIN: I'm curious about the gloves, myself.

MATT: You take some time with each one of these
items that you pull out from the ice, and each one

emanates a magical aura from them. You take the
gloves first and you look at them, and you

eventually come to realize, oh, you've heard about
this, you read about this in your books. These are

Gloves of Missile Snaring. They're gloves that
when worn, you have an opportunity to possibly

snatch a missile out of the air. These gloves seem
to almost meld into your hands when you don them. When

a ranged weapon attack hits you while you're
wearing them, you can use your reaction to reduce

the damage by a certain amount, provided you have
a free hand. If you reduce the damage to zero, you

can catch the missile, midair, (whoosh) stop it
from hitting you.

TALIESIN: That might be good for you, though.

LAURA: For anybody with ranged, probably.

MATT: Anybody who's hit by ranged.

TALIESIN: I have a two-handed ranged weapon,
though, which you do not.

MATT: Looking at the hat itself, while not a very
impressive hat, the magical energy on it does give

you the idea that it is used as an illusion-based
magic. It is a Hat of Disguise. While wearing this

hat you can use an action to cast the Disguise
Self spell at will. It ends if the hat is

removed.

SAM: May I have that one, please?

TALIESIN: No, Scanlan.

TRAVIS: What? He can already disappear.

FELICIA: You'll abuse it. You've already abused
that privilege already.

SAM: I'm sorry. By the way, your lips taste like
bubblegum.

MATT: The potion is a Potion of Climbing. You can
actually climb your walking speed for one hour.

MARY: Like Spider Climb?

FELICIA: Spider Pig.

MARY: What's it called?

MATT: Climbing or scaling cliffs, you can go at
the speed-- normally, you're very slow when you

climb. You can just parkour up super fast. While
this is happening, because you rolled a 20, you

look over at the corpses that are frozen on the
ground. You see one of the corpses is wielding a

sword, and another one of the corpses appears to
have a shattered bow in one hand. You go over and

see the sword itself is not affected by the ice.
It actually seems to be resisting the ice. You

(cracking) break it out of the hand. The person
who's holding the bow, currently, the upper torso

is bitten off and shattered. Part of the body is
ruined. The bow is broken and destroyed, but there

is a quiver on its back. Within the quiver, you
see most of the arrows are frozen solid within the

quiver, but there is one that seems unaffected by
the ice.

LAURA: Can I tell what it is?

MATT: You pull out the arrow. It appears to be a
deep forest green, and the actual shaft of the

arrow has a texture to it, almost a rough metallic
texture.

SAM, MARY, and TRAVIS: Take it!

LAURA: I'm taking it! Are you kidding me?

MATT: If you wish to bring those over to Lyra.
Lyra, make an arcana check.

FELICIA: This is a very interesting arrow. I
haven't seen one of these like this. Oh, wait,

maybe I have. 27.

MATT: Good to know. You take the time with it. You
immediately recognize, there is a similar

enchantment on both of these weapons, and whoever
came in here earlier had the intent of slaying

this dragon and failed to do so. What you find is
a Dragon-Slayer Longsword. Which is a plus-one

weapon, normally, but against dragons or people of
the dragon subtype, it deals an additional 3d6

damage with every hit.

FELICIA: It's too bad it didn't work for them.

MATT: And an Arrow of Dragon-Slaying. It's a
singular arrow, a one-use arrow, but if it hits a

dragon of the dragon race, type, or group, it has
to make a constitution saving throw or take an

additional 6d10 piercing damage. It's a one-use,
"fuck you, dragon" arrow.

SAM: 6d10?

FELICIA: That's very pleasant.

LAURA: Yeah, right? What is the saving throw?

SAM: You'll see. You're going to get the paper.

MATT: So at this point, you guys have taken
probably a good hour and a half or so in this

cavern. You start seeing water drip.

LAURA: Oh, we should get out.

MATT: It's beginning to thaw in the absence of
Rimefang.

MARY: Well, what's good is, I believe we're within
the three days of the contract, yes?

MATT: Possibly.

FELICIA: Well, we got the contract. We completed
it within three days. Now, we have to get back.

MARY: Yes, we've killed it, so let's go home.

MATT: Percy, you go and you pull out the contract
real fast to inspect it, and you can see that the

arcane sigils that were built into it are faded,
and where it looks like each piece of the dragon

that you harvested correctly, has seemingly had a
strange, glimmering gold shimmer from the actual

text on the contract.

LAURA: Lyra, they're going to love you.

FELICIA: It's so exciting. I can't wait to go to
the mess hall and tell everybody, many times, over

and over, how this happened together. And you
guys, this has been an amazing journey. Thank

you.

MARY: I would like to take just one gold coin
right at the base of the head of what was formerly

Rimefang for myself. I'll put it in a necklace
when we all go back to town.

MATT: All right. You take that one gold piece,
pocket it. Take a moment to remember your final

death blow against the dragon. You guys trek back
through the caverns you arose, back through the

ruined frost giant village, back into the Vesper
Timberland, find where your horses were currently

tied up, make your way back towards the city of
Vasselheim. About a day and a half's worth of

travel later, you notice that the blizzard that
encompassed the six-mile radius of this mountain

range has faded into a soft fog, and the actual
weather in this area seems to have been connected

to the presence of the dragon and is slowly
dissipating. You eventually take yourself to the

base of Vasselheim's main wall. You shout at the
top of the wall, and noticing the group arriving,

they let the doors open. You can see the giant,
dragon-headed ballistae that line the city walls

are armed and ready, and upon approval, they move
them away. You enter the city, make your way

through the Braving Grounds to the Quadroads to
the outside of the Slayer's Take guildhall. As you

enter the main room, you see Mertin is standing
there. Looks like he's playing a game of solitaire

with a deck of cards. He looks up. "Well, I'll be
damned. Are you serious? You killed him?"

FELICIA: Mertin, we did it.

MATT: "Show me your contract. Show me this
contract."

FELICIA: I don't know why you'd doubt us. Really,
it's right here.

MATT: "Well done." And he puts his hand out to
shake your hand.

FELICIA: Oh my gosh. I start crying. This is the
most proud moment of my life, Mertin. I've admired

you for so long and the fact (cries) thank you.
And then I just hug him.

MATT: Okay. He hugs you. "I appreciate it very
much. You lost me 200 gold pieces, but well done.

"You've proven to be more than I expected. Let me
get the Huntmistress. She will be very happy to

"see that you've arrived. Aye, my wife. Yes." And
he gets up and leaves. A few moments later, the

headmaster Vanessa Cyndrial comes in, her tiefling
self with her horns curled behind her head. Walks

in with this smooth glare. "I must say. Some of
these contracts we put out as a test of your power

"and will, and to be perfectly honest, I was
pulling for you." She puts out her hand and her

husband takes a pouch of coin and puts it in her
hand. She takes it and puts it on the side of her

belt. "I'm impressed by all of you, and by this
token, and by the completed contract. First off,

"you have definitely proven your worth to the
Slayer's Take."

FELICIA: Oh my god, that is so sweet, Vanessa.

MATT: "Keep the emotions in check. We have to put
up a face here. No one wants to see a member of

"the guild cry. Now, for the rest of you, I would
like to humbly ask if you wish to join the

"Slayer's Take guild."

SAM: Yeah, sure, that'll work. The bear, too?

MATT: "The bear, as well. Best not show him the
back room. We have a few trophies back there that

"might freak him out."

TRAVIS: Do we get to work with another leader next
time?

SAM: What? Because if the answer is yes, we
refuse. This is our leader from now on.

FELICIA: Thank you so much.

MATT: "You are able to choose what your group is
at any time. Whatever the contract requires."

FELICIA: I really appreciate it, but given the
kiss that we had, I realized why Aldor doesn't

love me is that I don't have enough experience.
Sexually. So I'm going to stay in town to spread

my wings in that area. And then he'll love me.
Won't he, Vanessa?

MATT: Vanessa goes, "Lyra, I would recommend this
course of action to not be taken. I would think

"that would reflect poorly-- I mean, your personal
time is your own, but nevertheless, my dear, this

"is a very pious house--"

SAM: I think this is a great idea.

FELICIA: Oh, no. Not you. You're such a friend to
me. I can't ruin that.

SAM: You're right.

MATT: Vanessa walks up and puts her hand on your
shoulder and goes, "We're going to have a talk,

"woman to woman."

FELICIA: (whispers) Oh my god, you guys, I'm in!

MARY: Be straight with her, will you? Please.

MATT: "I'm going to make sure she doesn't
embarrass the rest of us. So with the contract

"completed, provide what you've harvested from your
quarry, and payment will be delivered."

LAURA: I put the bag down that's got all the stuff
in it. And then we take out a couple from the

white dragon, and put out the other stuff. And
we've got this giant heart right here.

MATT: The heart, which Grog has been carrying on
his back as you guys travel. (impact sound) It

hits the table and the wood cracks a little bit
beneath it from the impact. And you can see, the

ice is starting to melt a bit on the exterior.

LAURA: Careful, it needs to be preserved.

MATT: She gives a nod. "Very well. Mertin, please,
provide these for transport to the contract

"client."

MARY: Can we ask who actually contracted it?

MATT: "It's written on the contract itself."

MARY: Oh, that's right. I'm so sorry.

MATT: Percy has the contract, currently.

TALIESIN: I do. Ozwyn Grud?

TRAVIS: Grundle?

FELICIA: Alchemist Ozwyn Grud.

MATT: Make a history check, by the way.

TALIESIN: May I, as well?

FELICIA: 21.

TALIESIN: 25.

TRAVIS: Oh, a history check? Four. He's a person.

MARY: I had four, as well. We are so getting shots
later. Like, now.

LAURA: Nine.

MATT: All right. The two of you immediately go,
"Huh," and it hits you: you've heard the name

before. You've heard the name and you're trying to
figure out where it is. You pick it up and say,

"He's a member of the Arcana Pansophical." It's a
really exclusive group of archmages across the

entire globe that essentially work together to
keep the peace on a global scale. Of which, you

know that Arcanist Allura Vysoren is a member of
the Arcana Pansophical.

TALIESIN: Yes, of course.

MATT: This is another member of that team, who
ordered this.

TALIESIN: This is most likely going to good use,
at the very least.

SAM: So do we collect our money?

MATT: "Indeed. What is the total on that contract,
if you don't mind repeating?"

TALIESIN: I was just working that out.

LAURA: Lots of gold.

TALIESIN: Lots of gold. It's 1,800 for the dragon
eyes, 1,200 for the dragon tongue. 3,500 for the

heart. 1,500 for the claws, and then how much for
the dragon teeth?

LAURA: Per dragon's tooth? Or for all six dragon
teeth?

TALIESIN: For all 20 dragon teeth.

MATT: Yeah. Essentially, considering the dragon
teeth that you had already stored, those are used

in this transaction, as well as the claws. So you
no longer have dragon's teeth and dragon claws

stored in your bag. However, you've fulfilled the
contract and get full payment for those.

TRAVIS: We have 12 teeth left.

SAM: So it's 9,000 total?

TALIESIN: 9,000 total.

MATT: "9,000 gold pieces." She reaches beneath,
pulls out a small chest. You see her do something

beneath the table you don't recognize, and all of a
sudden you hear a clicking sound and she pulls up

three large sacks of gold (heavy impacts) on the
table. "Divide as you see fit. On top of this, as

"you have now been accepted to this, when your
other team members arrive, which should be any

"moment now, in the next day or so, you'll be
inducted, you'll be absolved of your breach of the

"laws of Vasselheim, and you will also acquire a
small payment in conjunction with the hydra

"contract. So we will discuss this as soon as your
friends arrive. Until then, feel free to rest,

"divide the gold, and be on your way."

LAURA: That's 1,500 each.

SAM and TALIESIN: Thank you.

FELICIA: Oh, I don't need any. (laughs)

LAURA: What about you, Zahra?

MARY: Oh, I need. I'll take, definitely. Thank
you.

MATT: "You do not need your money? Well, that will
go back to the guild, thank you."

TRAVIS: No, she misspoke.

MARY: She misspoke. I'm so sorry. She completely
misspoke.

MATT: (chuckles) "Very well." Tosses the coins.

LAURA: 1,800 each.

MATT: "Well done. Congratulations, and I look
forward to a very fruitful and profitable future

"together here at the Slayer's Take."

TRAVIS: Aye. Scanlan, should we go and make sure
that your wounds are completely healed?

LAURA: Can we insight check Vanessa really fast?

MATT: You may. What are you trying to gather?

LAURA: Just to see what kind of person she is.

MATT: All right, go for an insight check.

LAURA: 24.

MATT: Okay. You know you have a very strong sense
of being able to read a person, and yet she is

still an enigma to you. She seems earnest. She
seems definitely a shrewd businesswoman, and

there's a reason this guild has been successful
for as long as she's been at the helm of it. But

as far as reading her intent? She seems very
guarded and hard to read. You're unable to really

catch a bead on her.

FELICIA: Vanessa, I want to thank you for trusting
me with this very difficult task. I know that you

sent some other people after this dragon, and your
confidence in our abilities over theirs, who were

defeated? It's just fantastic. I mean, what were
you thinking?

TRAVIS: What were you thinking?

TALIESIN: What were you thinking, really?

MATT: "Well, to be perfectly honest, this dragon
had been a thorn in our side, with previous

"contracts failed on its side, and you all seemed
so confident in your skills. I figured it would be

"a good excuse for you to either flee from this
thing and come back with your tail between your

"legs, or be foolish and get yourself killed, in
which case, you're not a problem of ours anymore

"and everything's fine. Or, best case scenario,
what you've shown to me today."

LAURA: Which is that we're amazing.

TRAVIS: Vox Machina does not flee.

MARY: Never. Although I'm not a part of it.

SAM: We'll make you an honorary member.

MATT: "Anyway, I have business to attend to. Enjoy
your night. Celebrate. And return here when you

"wish to see your friends hopefully return as
successful as you were."

SAM and MARY: Thank you.

TRAVIS: We are sure they will.

MATT: "Mertin!" "Yes, I know, my dear. I'm taking
it." And he takes the heart and (grunts) lifts it

over his back and the halfling, as thick as he is,
(grunts) is bringing it to the back room. She

turns around, gathers the rest of the materials
into a sack, and exits the room. And with that, we

will conclude tonight's session. Well done!

SAM: We did it!

MARY: We survived!

LAURA: Good job, Mary!

MATT: By the way, these are your magical items.
You want to go ahead and take those?

SAM: I have to split.

TALIESIN: Yes, you're moving.

FELICIA: Tonight?

TALIESIN: Tomorrow.

FELICIA: Oh my goodness.

MATT: First off, guys, a big round of applause and
appreciation for our guests. Mary, Felicia. You

guys were fantastic.

TALIESIN: Guest dragon kill.

FELICIA: That was very fun. Thank you for letting
me guest and be on the Twitch channel. You guys

are a joy to have. I'm so proud to be part of the
Geek and Sundry family.

MARY: I would like to say thank you so much to the
community, to the Critters out there. I've never

felt so much love overnight and through this last
week. You inspired me today, and all of us, so

thank you so much.

ZAC: Speaking of Critters, #CriticalRole is
officially trending on Twitter right now on the

front page. You guys should all keep that trend
going and go tell us what you think about the show

and your favorite moments from tonight with
#CriticalRole, @GeekandSundry. A couple of other

quick announcements. Thank you, Felicia, for
coming out. She's about to leave for a month,

right?

FELICIA: I'm going on a book tour, so please, if
you haven't, preorder my book. feliciadaybook.com.

I'm going to 12 cities, then DragonCon. I'm pretty
excited about it. I'm going all over. I'm sorry,

Midwest. It'll be fun.

ZAC: Speaking of her book, guys, we are 60
subscribers away, roughly, from doing another

signed book giveaway. Subs are what keep this
channel alive. We wouldn't be able to bring you

this content without subscribers, so let's try to
get that 60 before we're done reading all our

donations and prizes and everything else. But
actually, I think we're going to play that video

of Felicia one more time really quick to support
her book tour.

FELICIA: That's very sweet.

ZAC: We'll be right back, really quick, with our
donations and everything.

MATT: Yes.

[end captions]