MATT: Hello everyone and welcome back to Critical
Role. I know we missed you guys last week. We had

crazy E3 coverage and the stream was fantastic in
getting all that to you, and to me because I

couldn't be there. So thank you to the stream team
for making all of that happen last week. But we

return, nevertheless, to the wondrous realm of
Exandria, and the adventures that happen in this

wonderful world of Critical Role. It's been a
week. I'm a little crazed right now. So be

prepared for crazed Mercer today.

ORION: Yeah, crazed Mercer!

MATT: What could possibly go wrong? All right. So
before we get started here, a couple--
a few quick

things, cool things! First off, guys, our first
winner for our subscriber giveaway is Valmoncen.

Congratulations! You're going to win a signed
Player's Handbook and a signed cast photo so

congrats to you. And we'll be giving those away
for every 50 subscribers that we get throughout

the show tonight. So remember in order to be part
of these giveaways you have to be active in the

chatroom. So every 50 subscribers, at 3,750 will
be our next one and every 50 thereafter. So we'll be

giving away signed Player's Handbooks and signed
photos of the cast. Also, Facebook initiative that

we're putting out there now. For all you guys out
there who could, go to the-- Hi there Sam.

SAM: Hi!

MATT: (laughs) If you have an opportunity, go to
the Geek and Sundry Facebook Page,

facebook.com/geekandsundry, and share on there
both #CriticalRole and a reason why you think

people should watch the show. And we will be doing
a giveaway for all the folks that do that, and that'll include a

signed Player's Handbook, a signed photo, and this
fantastic D&D Attack Wing Green Dragon Expansion

Pack, which is just a cool looking mini in
general.

MARISHA: I want that!

MATT: Well too bad. They're going to get it. You
guys. One of you magical people are going to get

this. So go to the Facebook of Geek and Sundry, share
your best reasoning to the world on there why

people should check us out and maybe win that, which
would be cool. Also, as a heads up, let's

see, we have a new shirt up! I'm sure you've seen a
fantastic new Critical Role shirt. It's only a

two-week limited run again. It's designed by one
of our awesome fans, Matt Abernathy. Well done and

thank you!

(cheering)

ORION: Matt Abernathy! Did I say it right?

MATT: You did. I believe so. If not, you're
welcome to get angry at us on the internet.

But that just went up. It has our little
awesome 8-bit--

SAM: Is there a time limit on those, Matt?

MATT: Two weeks.

SAM: Two weeks?! You mean the people out there
have only two weeks to get this t-shirt?

MATT: This is true.

SAM: Will you tell me this. Is it made of fine
material? Is it a handcrafted t-shirt?

MATT: The finest. If there were a t-shirt to gird
your loins with, this is the one to do it.

SAM: You heard the man. The two weeks is ticking
now. Slightly less.

MATT: And to be fair, girding your loins does
actually involve cloth. Look it up on Google. It's

an interesting process, I think more people could
do it. It helps aerate the... anyway. And last

thing! There's a cool RPG app game that launched
today called Soul Hunters, on app stores, iOS and

Android I think, that I did some voice-over for a
few of the characters in the game. It's a fun project,

you should check it out. It just launched today.
But for the next 24 hours, anyone who downloads

the game and puts in the promo code "Critical
Role" will get a free champion that I voiced. An

awesome tank fellow who is a lot of fun, so go
check that out and get a free tank. And also for

every ten subs we have ten key giveaways for the
game. I think it is upwards close to $100 worth

in game giveaway material and free money and stuff
in the actual app itself. So every ten subscribers

we'll be putting out a special key to that winner
for use in the Soul Hunters game, so check that

out! Good times.

SAM: Wait. Marisha. Say thank you for that thing.

MARISHA: Thank you to whomever got us this amazing
super cool looking bottle of scotch!

MATT, TRAVIS AND ASHLEY: What?

LAURA: Whoa, that's magic.

MARISHA: I know. Check that out.

ORION: It's Taurez.

MARISHA: It's Taurez Brandy.

LAURA: Wait! Wait, there was a card on the box.

SAM: Oh yeah.

MARISHA: There was a card on the box.

SAM: But that would be over there somewhere.

MARISHA: We sort of wanted it now, so we jumped
the gun. I blame Sam.

MATT: Where's the card and the box?

SAM: I threw the card on the floor and took the
scotch.

ZAC: Okay, you guys. There was a card with stuff
on there.

SAM: Oh! It's-- sorry.

MATT: If you don't mind, go ahead.

SAM: "Hi, Geek and Sundry Crew! So while this
package is actually mainly for the Critical Role

"cast, I hope that they share it with you guys,
too!"

MARISHA: Well...

LAURA: Oh! That's not going to happen.

SAM: Oh, I guess that means these guys. "It's a
small way of thanking you for all your hard work

"for bringing us Critical Role every week and
making my life a bit more bearable. I would so

"appreciate holding off on giving this to the cast
until the entire party is there--" Sorry Liam. "I

"should've also sent you a note for the cast,
through Twitch to go along with the package and it

"would be amazing if you could ensure that they get it along with the
package. Keep being awesome! Prometheus Theus."

MATT: Thank you, Prometheus Theus!

LAURA: See, that's why you read the card before
you open the box.

MARISHA: Thanks, Prometheus!

ORION: Thank you, Prometheus.

ASHLEY: Where's Taliesin?

MATT: Taliesin will be here shortly, he's running
a little behind. Yeah, the problem with having

this at 7PM on a Thursday in Los Angeles is that
depending on where you're coming from, you may

not get here by 7PM. But he'll be here shortly.

MARISHA: That's true, yeah, Taliesin's coming.

MATT: Thank you! That's amazing. And whenever that
is done, that bottle is going to be repurposed for

some sort of potion. It's happening.

ASHLEY: Oh, we could make it a candle.

MATT: Oh yeah. Whoa.

LAURA: Ashley makes awesome candles out of
bottles.

ASHLEY: Well you just put the lighter fluid and a
rope--

MATT: So we're doing that, right?

ASHLEY: Yeah.

MATT: That lives now as an alcoholic container,
but will eventually become an awesome on-set

candle. So thank you so much Prometheus, that's
amazing.

ORION: Yes, thank you Prometheus.

MARISHA: Thank you!

MATT: Also we have a couple other gifts to give
out. They weren't here last week so we couldn't

give them away yet, but we have a couple of gifts
over there for I believe Laura and Travis, or more

specifically Vex and Grog...

ZAC: We need to wait until
the end of the show.

MATT: To give those away?

ZAC: We have a ton of stuff to give you.

MATT: Oh! Really?

LAURA: Really? Are we waiting for the end?

SAM: Then let's wait.

LAURA: Okay.

ZAC: Yeah, we have a lot of presents to give you
guys.

MATT: Okay. Well then, we shall wait.

MARISHA: Hi Liam! We miss you so much!

LIAM: I know. I wish I was there.

MARISHA: Hi. How's New York?

LIAM: Muggy and hot.

MARISHA: Yay.

TRAVIS: We need better speakers.

ORION: Are you in a Broadway play?

LAURA: He is in a Broadway play.

ORION: Are you seeing Grease? Is that what's going
on?

MARISHA: (laughs) Seriously...

SAM: Hey, Travis.

MATT: All right. So we're getting better speakers
for Liam here, but he'll be up for joining us via

Skype, and Taliesin will be here shortly.

SAM: Okay. What do we got to do? Should we play
the game?

MATT: I think we're going to jump in here.

SAM: Okay! Everyone! Settle! Settle! Let's
play the game!

MATT: All right, we're going to get a speaker set
up for Liam, but nevertheless we shall hop

in here and start playing.

LAURA: It's chaos today.

MATT: Oh yeah. And I would like to recommend also
that we try to prevent cross-talk, so be aware.

MATT and LAURA: (sing) Cross-talk.

MATT: Oh, Crossfire. Some things never go away. All
right, so! For those of you who are joining us for

the first time, welcome. For those of you who have
been with us for the entire journey, welcome as

well. Bunch of crazy voice actors here, playing
D&D. The party had just recently completed an

extensive quest through the Underdark beneath the
dwarven city of Kraghammer, in which they battled

with mind flayers, and duergar, and eventually a
giant crazed beholder that was possessed by an

ancient artifact called the Horn of Orcus. Upon
defeating the mind flayers and making a dramatic

escape, thanks to Tiberius, back to their hometown
of Emon, they met with the council of Tal'Dorei,

which they're a part of, to discuss what they
should do with this great, ancient, evil artifact,

the Horn of Orcus. The council discussed it, most
of the knowledge seemed to be that it could not,

or there is no known way to destroy it. The best
means of dealing with it would be to reseal it in

a place where it would be safe, forgotten, and
hopefully never rediscovered. It was decided

amongst the council that the safest place to do
that is on the distant land of Othanzia, where

there is a capital city known as Vasselheim.
There, supposedly, is the most well known,

holiest, and oldest place of Kima's order of
worship, of the Great Platinum dragon Bahamut, of

which she's a paladin, and supposedly they have a
facility or means of sealing it away. So it was

decided that they would send away for a holy
container that could contain this evil without any

worry of corruption or escape, carry it then, via
skyship, over the ocean to the distant land of

Othanzia, to Vasselheim, the capital city, and
seal it away. After which, they went on a shopping

spree to Gilmore's Glorious Goods. Met everyone's
favorite mage, magic creator extraordinaire.

LAURA: Oh that's right! I want some stuff. Give me
stuff.

MATT: Yeah, you guys have to figure out who gets
what, by the way.

SAM: But we have to do this quickly.

MATT: So bringing us back now, you've completed
your purchases, now as a party decide how to

disseminate the items you've purchased. And once
you guys are ready, we'll take it from there.

SAM: Okay, how many items do we have?

MARISHA: Well they're a bit divvied up right now.
I believe Pike is holding

onto the sword, correct?

ASHLEY: And I also have a Pearl of Power, which is
up for grabs.

LAURA: Ooh, what is that. Let me see, let me see.

MARISHA: I'm holding on to a Ring of Protection
plus two, and a Belt of Dwarvenkind. Hello Percy!

TALIESIN: Oh, hello.

MARISHA: Hi!

ORION: Hello, Percy.

MARISHA: Good of you to join us!

TALIESIN: Thank you, I just got off an airplane.
Hi.

MARISHA: Yes, how was your flight?

ORION: An airplane?

TALIESIN: The flight was-- it was slightly shorter
than the drive here. Hi.

ORION: Oh my god.

MARISHA: That sounds about right.

TALIESIN: This looks good.

MARISHA: Please! Look what we got. This is a gift
from-- what's his--

SAM: Oh! What's-his-butt has something.

TALIESIN: (high-pitched) It's really good!

MARISHA: It's brandy! It's really good brandy.

SAM: Vax has something.

LAURA: Vex. He's Vex.

SAM: Jesus.

LAURA: Just kidding, I'm Vex (cackles).

LIAM: I have a Dagger of Life-Stealing, plus one.
I'd also like to say how much I enjoy being in

Travis's stomach like Uatu.

(all laugh)

SAM: Nice.

MATT: Love it.

MARISHA: I have a Ring of Protection plus two, and
a Belt of Dwarven-

SAM: What is that? What does that do?

MARISHA: It gives you a plus two bonus to AC and
saving throws while wearing this ring.

SAM: I need that.

MARISHA: And then I also have the Belt of
Dwarvenkind.

ASHLEY: Did you say the most amazing thing about
it?

MARISHA: The Belt of Dwarvenkind?

ASHLEY: Yeah.

MARISHA: Yeah, you guys remember this? It gives you
a plus two to your constitution modifier. You have

advantage on charisma/persuasion checks with
dwarves... and you have a 50% chance, each day at

dawn, of growing a full beard.

SAM: What?

TALIESIN: Yeah!

ASHLEY: I. Know.

LAURA: That's amazing!

TRAVIS: What.

MARISHA: If you are incapable of grow-- oh, that's
right, because you guys tuned out!

LAURA: That's right, we weren't here!

MARISHA: Yeah. We realized this at the end of the
stream. At the top of the day, you have a 50%

chance each day at dawn of growing a full, thick
beard if you are capable of growing one, or a

visibly thicker beard if you already have one.

TRAVIS: Wait, Tiberius is the only one that
couldn't grow a beard right?

LAURA: Right? We could all grow a beard...
technically.

TRAVIS: The ladies could get some stank beards.

SAM: Can the ladies grow a beard?

TRAVIS: Yeah!

LAURA: We could, why not?

ASHLEY: I mean, if our hormones were a little
different--

TRAVIS: Yeah, I've seen some nasty she-beards out
there.

TALIESIN: We can find them a nice lady to date. I
think it would work out pretty well.

MARISHA: And if you aren't a dwarf, on top of
this, you gain the following additional benefits

while wearing this belt. You have advantage on
saving throws against poison, resistance against

poison damage, darkvision up to 60 feet. You can
speak, read and write Dwarvish.

TALIESIN: I got one, too. I got the Manual of
Quickness of Action.

MARISHA: That one, you should keep.

TALIESIN: I'm keeping this one.

LAURA: Do you guys have a problem if I keep the
Pearl of Power?

SAM: What does it do?

LAURA: It lets you use another third spell slot,
3rd-level spell. And I figure you guys all have

better spells than 3rd-level, but I only have up
to 3rd-level.

SAM: So it just gives you one more 3rd-level
spell?

LAURA: Of my most powerful spell, which is my
3rd-level.

MARISHA: That's just fine with me.

LAURA: And they usually do a lot of damage with
the 3rd-level.

MARISHA: That's fine with me, I generally have
enough spell slots.

LAURA: You got that Ring of Protection. Or you can
have the beardy thing.

MARISHA: So yes, we also got the Coldsnap Leather
Armor, plus two, which I was originally thinking

for myself, but then I realized I actually have
decent leather armor that gives me spell

advantage, so I'm good on leather armor.

ORION: I could stand to wear it. I have no torso
armor.

MARISHA: I thought-- are you sure sorcerers can
wear it? I thought they could wear robes.

ORION: Cloth and leather. I mean, I just...

MATT: Sorcerers can wear no armor. You are wrong.

ORION: I can wear no armor.

MATT: No.

ORION: I have this thing that somebody can use.

LIAM: Wait, I would just like to say, (creepily)
"Wade."

SAM: Thank you... Vax

MARISHA: Do you have any armor on, Scanlan?

SAM: I have something.

ORION: This would bring his-- with that and the
ring, if you wore this and the ring, it would give you

plus three to your AC. So that's not a bad combo.
Because this will give you plus one to your AC.

MATT: You have regular Studded Leather Armor right
now.

SAM: What is that? How is that... is this better?

MATT: Probably.

MARISHA: Would that give him a plus two to his
AC?

MATT: Coldsnap Leather Armor. This would be
leather armor, plus two, it would probably give

you an additional plus one to your AC if you wear
it.

SAM: Plus one.

MATT: It's not studded leather, it's just leather,
but it's plus two to the AC, so yeah. Your AC

would go up by one.

MARISHA: Who wants the Belt of Dwarvenkind? Grog?
What's your constitution right now?

TALIESIN: I think Pike should have the belt.

TRAVIS: 18?

LAURA: That's pretty high.

MARISHA: Constitution up to a 20.

TRAVIS: I want to grow a fucking beard. I know it
does other things, but with a beard--

ASHLEY: The only reason any of us want that belt
is to grow a beard.

MARISHA: Yeah that's true. I'm not going to lie.

ASHLEY: I mean, even though there's some very
great... aspects... to the belt. That's a plus.

TALIESIN: My question is, once you grow the beard,
if you remove the belt, does the beard fall off or

do you get to keep the beard? Because then you
guys could just switch around, until everyone had

the appropriate amount of facial hair.

SAM: I'll take the armor.

MARISHA: Or does it dissipate at the end of the
day when you take it off?

LAURA: I think that's our wonderful Matt Mercer's
call.

TRAVIS: I'll take it, we can hold it until
somebody else wants it.

MATT: You have no way of knowing.

ORION: So who's going to take the ring?

SAM: What does the ring do?

LAURA: Keyleth, I think, would like the ring.

MARISHA: I would just like something to help my
AC.

SAM: What's your AC?

MARISHA: 15.

ORION: That would bring you to 17.

SAM: Mine's a 14.

MATT: It is now 15 with your new armor.

SAM: 15. All right, you take it. I'll just die a
lot.

TRAVIS: Whoa, whoa, no. Not cool.

MARISHA: Are you sure? I'd feel bad.

TALIESIN: I wouldn't.

ASHLEY: Hey Scanlan, what's your constitution?

SAM: 15.

ASHLEY: You'd look pretty good with a beard.

LAURA: You would look really good with a beard.

TALIESIN: Well, that solves it.

SAM: Well wait, I thought Grog was taking the
beard.

ASHLEY: Grog has it. Maybe you guys can switch out
sometimes.

SAM: Take it. It's a belt, we can just-- oh, but
we have to bind it to us.

TRAVIS: You can have it.

SAM: No, no, you take it.

MARISHA: Because Grog doesn't wear armor either.
He has better benefits if he doesn't wear armor.

TALIESIN: There hasn't been enough in-game time
for this to have actually taken hold yet,

has there?

MARISHA: You keep take that, I think. It gives
you a bonus to your dex.

TALIESIN: The Manual of Quickness of Action. It
takes 48 hours worth of reading it.

MATT: Not yet.

TALIESIN: Okay. So I'll have to wait... I'm
starting this.

MATT: You can read it over time, like take a
couple hours out of each evening, then...

MARISHA: But that means everybody got something,
right?

ORION: Yes.

LAURA: Yes?

MARISHA: Did we divide it up that way?

SAM: We divide everything up?

ORION: Yes.

LAURA: The only one who didn't is my brother.

LIAM: No, I have a Dagger of Life-Stealing, which
steals life.

ORION: And also, Scanlan-- and I bring out the
Ioun Stone.

SAM: Oh, yes.

ORION: Like I was saying before, you ran out of--
you kept running out of spells. This allows you to

store extra spells. I propose a friendly trade for
the crown-- circlet-- hat?

Whatever you're wearing.

LAURA: The circlet with the hat.

ORION: Is it a circlet?

SAM: The Concentration Circlet?

ORION: Yes. I think it would benefit you to have
the ring, some sort of spell storing, which you've

complained about running out of spells the last
few times we've fought.

LAURA: Oh. Sorry... sorry. I took that pearl and
you wanted it, huh?

SAM: The pearl, yes I did want the pearl, but...
what? (confused laugh)

MARISHA: It does what the pearl does but times
three.

SAM: What does it do?

MATT: It allows you to cast a spell into it, up to
a level three. You can do three 1st-level spells,

or up to one 3rd-level spell, into the stone.
It'll hold it. And then you can continue on with

the next few days and you can cast it from the
stone for free.

ORION: You know how I keep casting? I keep hucking
spells because I keep casting them

out of my Ioun Stone.

SAM: So does that mean on one round I could cast a
spell and also activate the spell

that's stored in there?

MATT: It's still an action to activate it, but it
doesn't use your current spell slot, 'cause you've

already stored it in there the day before.

SAM: I've never run out of spells.

ORION: You ran out of spells the last two battles,
and you said that "I can't cast this anymore",

where you've--

SAM: So it gives me an extra level three slot?

MATT: Essentially, if you were to cast a level
three spell into it in advance.

ORION: Or you can cast, like, three of those, or
three of those. Things that you would use for

other deals.

MATT: Essentially. It's up to you. You have the
crown.

SAM: Let me think about it. Let's think about it
and strategize. We'll do this tonight? The three

level spells I don't use as much as these. But, if
that's what you'd like...

ORION: I would like that very, very much.

TRAVIS: Has Vax come back from his man date?

LAURA: Yeah. Are we done? Are we ready to do
things now?

TALIESIN: I've been looking forward to that
conversation for two weeks.

MARISHA: It's true. (giggles) That is a true
story.

TALIESIN: It's been sitting going, "Maybe he'll
say this!" I don't know.

SAM: Well. You did Silence me that time.

ORION: I had to.

SAM: You didn't have to.

TALIESIN: You did turn him into a mouse.

SAM: He liked it.

LAURA: Yeah, a super cute mouse!

ORION: No, I-- no. I was going to say you didn't
turn me back into a mouse.

SAM: You also abandoned the party in our most dire
moments.

LAURA: This is true as well.

TALIESIN: But he then did get the killing blow.

TRAVIS: True.

LAURA: That... doesn't add to...

SAM: Yes, so if I abandon you all and come in at
the last minute and take the last shot, I get all

the credit? I don't think so.

TALIESIN: I like to be contrary.

ORION: To be fair, gnome, I never abandoned the
party at all. I was surveying the situation. My

idea was not tried whatsoever. So I merely kept to
my word. I did not enter the premises. Only when I

needed to save everyone's life, which is exactly
what I did.

SAM: I'm so sorry, I missed the last part because
my awesome hat was blocking it, sorry.

TRAVIS: Oh yeah!

ORION: It's too big, you're saying you can't wear
it?

SAM: We'll discuss soon.

ORION: That's not Clarota's thing, that's a
different thing, right?

MATT: Yeah, that Vax has.

LIAM: Yes, I have the Clarota hat.

ORION: And we still have that.

LAURA: And it looks wonderful on you.

TALIESIN: You look like Merlin from Excalibur.

TRAVIS: Are we still at Gilmore's?

MATT: You guys have exited Gilmore's at this
time.

LAURA: Are we standing out on the street divvying
up random items?

MATT: Yes. You guys are essentially in the middle
of the thoroughfare in Abadar's Promenade of

Emon, bickering over the items you guys are
distributing amongst

yourselves in broad daylight.

LAURA: Well I've got a beautiful pearl, so I'm
happy.

TALIESIN: I've got a book!

TRAVIS: Are there any shady characters making eyes
at our goods?

MATT: Make a perception check.

TRAVIS: Me make a perception check?

MATT: Yes.

LAURA: Bust out those dice!

TRAVIS: 15 plus... probably crap. Zero.

MATT: (laughs) Looking about, there are a few
folks that walk by and give a strange eye to the

seven, nearly eight foot tall goliath. But nothing
beyond what you're used to.

TRAVIS: Oh, all right.

MATT: Yeah. As a note guys, you do have about two
days before the holy receptacle arrives so if

there's anything that you want to achieve in that
meantime, you're welcome to do so or you can just

spend that couple days and relax.

LAURA: What? I'm sorry Percy, are you talking?

TALIESIN: I have chicken!

TRAVIS: On you?

TALIESIN: I have some tinkering I'd like to do.

MATT: All right. What would you like to tinker?

TALIESIN: I would like to try and build a couple
things. I have a list actually...

LAURA: Arrows! Arrows for me please. Darling?

TALIESIN: No, no. Arrows are on the list. I want
to start working on some sort of tazing implement

for direct contact. I want to do an electrical
charge that I can rev up.

MARISHA: He wants to make Asami's glove.

MATT: Okay.

TALIESIN: There's that. I have a list of things.
How many things can I start

poking with in two days?

MATT: That glove, that's going to be like a 
week-long endeavor.

TALIESIN: That's a week-long thing.

MATT: Even the design phase will take you about
two days, acquiring materials.

TALIESIN: Night vision.

MATT: Night vision...

TALIESIN: Into my current, existing helmet.

MATT: Night vision, or darkvision, as you would
put it, would be more of an

enchantment-based acquisition.

TALIESIN: There's no way that I could try to pull
that together?

MATT: Not via tinkering.

TALIESIN: Damn it.

MATT: The technological aspects are not,
unfortunately, that advanced in this time. Like,

shades, probably. You could probably shade some
sun. But, actually looking in the dark, that's an

actual-- would be more of an arcane situation.

TALIESIN: So this boils me down to two thoughts.
This is good. I want to put a

slight dent into the barrel of Bad News to get a
ricochet shot, so that it basically allows me,

when I shoot a bullet, to also do 1d12 worth of
damage to one target that is immediately adjacent

to the main target.

MARISHA: Shrapnel?

TALIESIN: Shrapnel. It's not quite shrapnel,
it's a ricochet, but yes it is basically a

shrapnel shot.

ORION: Like a bank shot.

TALIESIN: Yeah, like a bank shot. A secondary
lesser damage.

MATT: With the Bad News. It's going to be
difficult with the Bad News because the sheer

power and force that that gun emits on its
payload.

TALIESIN: Would it be possible, if I did it to one
of the barrels of--

MATT: You could do it. I'd say it'd probably up
your misfire rate by one.

TALIESIN: Ah, okay.

MATT: So consider that. It's doable, but in
messing with the barrel, the chamber, and the

trajectory of the weapon, there is that slight
increase in the possibility of it jamming or

disabling.

TALIESIN: Okay.

MATT: It's a possible trade-off. With Bad News,
because it travels so fast to do that much damage,

any sort of alteration-- it will either not change
the course whatsoever, or it'll blow up the gun.

TALIESIN: I'll start the taser and work on some
arrows then. That's what I'd like to do.

MATT: Okay. Arrows are viable.

SAM: I go back into Gilmore's and I ask if
there's-- if either they or someone else they know

can make a specific kind of potion.

MARISHA: Oh, I actually join him.

MATT: All right. So the two of you walk back in as
they're discussing this.

Gilmore is still at his desk.

ORION: I'm going too.

MATT: All right. "I'm sorry, was there something
else you require?"

SAM: I forgot to ask-- Hello, Gilmore.

MATT: "Hello."

SAM: You look particularly perky today.

MATT: "I've had a rather good day, you could
say."

SAM: I was wondering if I could inquire about a
specific kind of scrying potion that I would like

made for me. It's a specialty item. I don't know
if any exist.

MATT: "Please, do step into my office." And he
leads you into the back room, beyond the beaded

curtain. (laughs)

SAM: Oh! Is that patchouli I smell?

MATT: "Quite an astute nose you have. I'll be
right in. If you don't mind, just hanging tight

"just for a moment. Thank you." He steps off in the
back room and takes about five minutes.

MARISHA: While he's gone, can I look around to see
if he has any books on how to start-- like a

potion making for dummies book.

MATT: Okay. So.

SAM: Gilmore, when we get excited, I-- well, never
mind that. Anyway, I'm looking for a way, a potion

that I could maybe drink or use, to help me look
in on a place that we've been to recently. I could

maybe leave a mark of some sort, and then use that
mark to magically scry into that place.

MATT: He gives you a long, hard look,
contemplating the conversation, and then you see a

lightbulb go off in his eyes and he goes, "Hmm.
Curious. You're into some things."

(laughter)

SAM: I have a dark side.

MATT: "Indeed. I could probably acquiesce to this.
Give me a day. I should be able to produce such an

"item, although this is, I will say-- having not
been attempted, there comes a warning of possible

"side effects."

SAM: So I would be drinking this potion and it
could affect me in other ways.

MATT: "Perhaps. The funny thing about unproven
magic is, well, it's unproven. I could give you at

"least a 90 to 95% guarantee?"

SAM: All right. And how much would such a potion
cost me?

MATT: "I would say for the research, the
materials, and seeing as how you are indeed

"sponsored by Gilmore's Glorious Goods. At
discount, 300 gold?"

SAM: Wow. Did I give away my ruby last time?

LAURA: I don't remember.

ORION: No, you still have it.

TRAVIS: You did not.

SAM: How much would this get me?

MATT: Go ahead and roll a persuasion.

TRAVIS: Come on buddy.

SAM: I don't have any dice! (laughs)

MATT: There you go!

LIAM: I almost gave away mine.

SAM: 23.

ASHLEY: That's a good one.

SAM: Oh. 21.

LAURA: Oh...

MATT: Right. Oh! (laughs) No, as soon as you
procure it, he leans forward and snatches it gingerly

from your fingers and looks it over in his eyes.
"Ooh! This is a fine piece."

LAURA: (whispering) It's super-duper flawless 
'cause you put it in the Wheel.

MATT: "For trade?"

SAM: Just tell me how much it's worth first.

MATT: "This gem would probably run you anywhere from
200 to 300 gold."

SAM: Do I sense that he's lying?

MATT: Make an insight check.

SAM: Where'd it go? Thank you! Ooh! 11.

(laughter)

MATT: He seems honest. He seems like he's
genuinely looking to make a deal.

TRAVIS: Do it.

SAM: What?

TRAVIS: Just straight up.

LAURA: Do it.

SAM: Yeah, let's do it. I'll give you the ruby for
the potion.

MATT: "Very well."

SAM: But I would love a hefty amount of a potion.
Not a single use, but multiple use.

MATT: "Oh. I can provide for this fantastic
specimen, a three use potion? Is that within your

"realm of possibility?"

SAM: That would be lovely, thank you, Gilmore.

MATT: "One day!"

SAM: One. One wonderful day!

MATT: "One day."

SAM: One glorious day!

MATT: And he rubs your shoulder and leads you
outside of the room.

ORION: Wait! I have a two part question, Gilmore!

LAURA: I didn't even think you were in there.

ORION: I am!

LAURA: Oh! Okay.

MATT: Ha. Ha. As you storm through the beaded
curtain, as he's exiting. "Ah! I'm sorry, this

"room is private."

ORION: Oh. Everything's private, I guess.

(laughter)

ORION: I wanted to know, A: How much that ring of
Walking on Water was again, and B: If you knew of

somewhere that I could have an existing item
enchanted just a little bit. Like make it stronger

than it currently is, but not change it.

MATT: "First off, the ring that we discussed as
our original deal, the price would run you

"about 1,750."

ORION: 1,750?

MATT: "1,750 gold pieces. Should you be interested
still. As for-- enchantment is a largely permanent

"process. To enhance an existing enchantment is a
dangerous task that has a very high probability of

"ruining the enchantment that currently exists."

ORION: Oh. That's good to know.

MATT: "To increase it, such masters I hear exist
in the world, but they are very, very dead. Or

"very, very hidden."

ORION: Hmm. Yes.

MATT: "However, if you wish to upgrade, we are
more than happy to oblige!"

ORION: No, the Ring of Protection that I have is
one measure. I wanted it by another measure.

I don't know how to phrase this in RP. So. I
wanted it to be-- to have--

SAM: More.

MARISHA: More protect-y.

SAM: More bigger.

MARISHA: More-- Yes.

MATT: "Well. Perhaps we could have one made for
you. It would take a few weeks, but we could have

"one waiting."

ORION: Oh, very good. I would like to arrange
that.

MATT: "All right. Well, you'd have to pay half the
price down in front." How much is your Ring of

Protection plus two currently labeled as?

MARISHA: 6,500.

ORION: Man.

MATT: "So 6,500. That will put you at 3,250 down
now. The other half when the enchantment is

"complete."

ORION: (quietly) That is insane. We didn't buy it
for that much, did we?

MATT: They haggled it down a little bit.

MARISHA: We tossed it in with a deal and stuff.

TALIESIN: Stuff's expensive, man.

MARISHA: Stuff is expensive.

ORION: I'll chill for now.

MATT: "Very well. Come back if you change your
mind."

ORION: I will.

MARISHA: Wait, did I find a book?

MATT: Right. We'll get to that now. Roll an
investigation check.

MARISHA: 18.

MATT: All right. Asking around some of the
employees and keeping an eye out, there are a few

books on herbalism, how to find and retain the
potent elements of various material components

found in nature. Also, there are some bits of
information about how to extract materials from

natural creatures, meaning monsters, beasts both
natural and magical. How to remove and preserve

safely elements of their organs, and things that
can be used in various alchemical compounds and/or

potion-brewing. There are no books specifically on
the process of brewing, but that is one of the key

components to it, is being able to acquire those
elements.

MARISHA: So I take those books. How much are those
books?

MATT: It's a single book that contains everything
about the herbalism and a book about the

extraction of creature components.

MARISHA: So I take that book. How much is that
book?

MATT: The two books.

MARISHA: How much are these books?

MATT: (laughs) You inquire with the employees.
"These books are marked currently at 25 gold

"apiece. They are a second printing, but hard to
find. Do you wish to purchase?"

MARISHA: Yes, I'll take both of them. 50 gold.

MATT: Mark off 50 gold. Hands the tomes back.

MARISHA: Also, did I talk to Gilmore about potion
classes?

MATT: You did, and he said he'll take it under
consideration.

MARISHA: He'll take it into consideration. Okay.

MATT: He gave you a look like, "Hm."

MARISHA: Like, maybe? Okay.

TALIESIN: It's tough to tell. He sort of has that
look.

LAURA: Without taking too long on it, I was also
hoping, while we're in town. That armor that we

stole from the big rhinoceros monster in the
duergar castle?

MATT: Oh, the bulette.

LAURA: Yes. The armor that we took from him. Is
there any way I can find a blacksmith that can

maybe upgrade Trinket's armor with that?

SAM: Ooh.

MATT: That's an interesting thought. All right. Go
ahead and make an investigation check.

LAURA: Okay. All right. Here we go. Pick wisely.
I'm using the new fancy one, so don't fail me.

MARISHA: (singing) Don't fail me now.

LAURA: 20?

MATT: 20. Easy enough. After asking around town,
you manage to find a few individuals to speak

with. There are two armor smiths. One that dabbles
in both blacksmithing and armor smithing, one that

specifically is an armor smith who focuses in
strange materials. Mostly ornamental, but has a

strong history and past in warfare and honing
those skills towards the use of actual battle. You

find it's a dwarven woman by the name of Karin,
and they send you to her facility. It's a very

small, almost a hovel, but when you approach the
outside, you can immediately smell this strong

scent of iron. Almost like a sulfur and different
other chemicals that are used when you're folding metals

and making composites. You open the door slightly,
and it's very darkly lit on the inside. There's

the heat of the forge, and you see this very
sturdy, muscular dwarven woman standing in there

with her hair graying, and it's pulled back into a
very tight bun. She's wearing a leather apron with

her sleeves rolled up, and she's in the process of
hammering down on a piece of metal over her anvil,

just (ping, ting, ting).

LAURA: Does she have a beard?

MATT: (laughs) You see, there's probably a bit of
scruff showing at the edge of her chin, but not a

beard per se. She doesn't seem to notice you.
She's just in the middle of her work.

LAURA: (clears throat)

MATT: She stops for a second. "Oh, sorry, I didn't
see you enter! Can I help you?"

LAURA: Karin, yes?

MATT: "Aye, I'm Karin."

LAURA: Don't mean to interrupt. You look very busy
here.

MATT: "Let me just finish."

LAURA: All right.

MATT: She gives you a nod (huffs), and then goes
back into her mode for a second. She makes you

wait for a good six minutes while she finishes
hammering out this piece, turning and rotating on

the edge of the anvil, hammering it into this
smooth-- it looks almost like a pauldron, curved

point for a shoulder. Then eventually, she (shhh)
quenches it in the trough, sets it aside with a

(tink, tink). Puts her tools down, takes off her
big leather gloves. Wipes her brow, and you see

when she wipes it, she wipes the sweat off, but
leaves a big old grease mark where once was clean,

and goes, "Sorry for the wait. So, what can I do
for you?"

LAURA: I've heard rumor that you are a very
talented blacksmith.

MATT: "Oh, aye. Depends on what you're looking
for. What're you putting in the furnace?"

LAURA: I have quite an interesting proposition for
you.

MATT: "I like interesting."

LAURA: I may have some material you've never
worked with, I don't know.

LIAM: Oh, here we go.

LAURA: Would you mind stepping outside for a
moment? Get some fresh air?

MATT: At this point, specifically, she goes from
extremely welcoming to a very nervous, untrusting look.

LAURA: Believe me, you'll want to see this.

MATT: Make a persuasion roll.

TRAVIS: Why didn't you wink first?

LAURA: You'll want to see this.

MATT: (laughs)

LAURA: Ugh! I don't know which-- that's the
problem with having too many. I'm rolling my

Trinket die, since it applies to Trinket.

MATT: There you go.

LAURA: That wasn't good. Nine?

MATT: It's okay, she rolled a two.

LAURA: Yay!

MATT: "All right, all right. Sorry, I don't mean
to-- I've had a few encounters in the past."

LAURA: Oh.

MATT: "But yes, outside." She walks out, and as
she walks out with you, you can see she reaches

over and grabs a sheathed shortsword and keeps it
at her side.

LAURA: No need for that, darling. Trinket!

MATT: (bear moans) Your armored bear comes looming
around the corner, at which point she (yelps) goes

for the sword instinctually.

LAURA: No, no! Take a gander at his armor.

MATT: "Oh. That's not bad. That's not bad at all!"
She walks up to him and carefully-- doesn't want

to touch him--

LAURA: He's friendly, don't worry.

MATT: Trinket, of course, leans forward. (slurp)
Licks the side of her face, cleaning off some of

the grease stain on the side of her cheek.
"(shocked laughter) Oh! That was unexpected. Very

"friendly one."

LIAM: Matt Mercer.

MATT: "Trinket, is it?"

LAURA: Yes.

MATT: "You're a nice one, Trinket." She starts
rubbing the side of his cheek. (bear moans)

LAURA: He likes you. I can tell.

MATT: She starts looking at the armor. "It's nice.
Functional. It's taken a few dings. It's seen some

"battle."

LAURA: Yes, it has. I'm hoping to protect him a
bit more, however.

MATT: "Well, I can see that. Who made this?" She
looks around and pulls it. "Oh, this is the mark

of Westruun. This was made over in that--
(scoffs)."

LAURA: Yes. You can do better, I'm sure.

MATT: "Oh, they're not the finest over there.
They're functional, but not the finest. Is this

"for a parade or is this for actual combat?"

LAURA: Actual combat. Beauty? Not my concern.

MATT: "All right, all right. And what materials
are you looking for?"

LAURA: Well. (grunts)

MATT: (laughs) As you slam down this awkward,
still somewhat wet in places, but mostly dried-out

bulette hide that you guys carved from it. And it
is big pieces of plate scales with sections of

leather underneath, interwoven. It is part of a
large behemoth of a creature. As you slam it down,

she steps back for a second. "And you-- what
manner of creature did this come from?"

LAURA: A very large one, actually. A bull--

MATT: "Bulette?"

LAURA: Bulette. That one.

MATT: "Oh, I haven't seen one of those found
itself to the surface in quite some time."

LAURA: It wasn't on the surface. We're a bit of
adventurers, if you want to know.

MATT: She gives you this long look. Goes, "Right.
Right, adventurers. Of course. Sorry, didn't mean

"to offend."

LAURA: You've probably heard of us. Vox Machina?

MATT: She stops for a second and goes, "Actually,
yes. I have heard of you."

LAURA: Yeah?

MATT: "Winter's Crest festival not long ago."

LAURA: That is correct.

MATT: "All right. Well, then. It's a pleasure to
have you in my little establishment and business.

"Bulette hide? I have not worked with this." She
leans down and starts messing with it, seeing how

pliable it is in sections. She goes, "There's
enough here to redo most of the armor. Most

"places. I could minimize spatial use of it and
possibly get most of the main plates gathered. I

"can work with this."

LAURA: Nice!

MATT: "I can work with this. It'll take me a few
days, unfortunately. It is a rare material."

LAURA: Right. Is two days enough?

MATT: "Two days?"

LAURA: Yes.

MATT: "I could. I'd have to charge you more, 'cause
I'm not going to get much sleep at that rate."

LAURA: Understandable. How much is a bit more?

MATT: "Well, you're providing the materials. That
definitely cuts the cost significantly. For my

"time and work, and lack of sleep--"

LAURA: And we will send many, many customers your
way.

MATT: "Can I put my personal brand on this?"

LAURA: Of course.

ORION: Wait--

MATT: "Well, then." You're not there.

LAURA: (whispering) Trinket isn't sponsored, it's
just fucking us.

ORION: Okay.

MATT: "500 gold suffice?"

LAURA: How about 450?

MATT: Make a persuasion roll.

LAURA: Shit.

MATT: Oh, Vex.

SAM: Why must you dicker?

LAURA: Because I want to.

ASHLEY: Yeah!

LAURA: Wah-wah! That would be 26.

MATT: She looks you over for a second, looks at
the material, and you can see in her eyes, there's

this interest in working with this material, never
touched or worked with it. She goes,

"(spits) 450."

LAURA: (spits) Deal.

MATT: Shakes hands.

LAURA: See you in a few days.

MATT: "All right."

LAURA: Two days.

MATT: "Two days. All right." And she leans down,
picks it up, it is heavy material-- for the most

part carrying it around was his job in the bag of
holding. She lifts it over one shoulder, (rgh)

heads right into the workshop--

LAURA: Thank you, Karin!

MATT: Stops for a second, turns around. "Do you
mind if I take that armor in the meantime? I

"figure I could use that to base the pattern."

LAURA: Oh, of course, yeah! Use it together.
Trinket.

MATT: Take about 15 minutes, she helps take the
armor off, she leads it all into the shop, and she

goes, "All right. See you in a few days." Closes
her door. (bff)

LAURA: Trinket, look at you naked. So cute. All
right, sorry that took so long.

SAM: Hi, you're back! All right. Shall we start
adventuring, then?

ORION: Where? There's two days to hang out.

SAM: Two days, oh, we're not leaving yet?

LAURA: No.

SAM: I was mostly spacing out last time.

MATT: If there's anything else you guys want to
achieve in these next two days, you're welcome to

do it now, or we could go ahead and say you relax
and take the time to fast-forward through the

two-day period.

TALIESIN: I'll do my tinkering rolls and then I'm
good.

MATT: All right, so. First you wanted to work
on?

TALIESIN: I wanted to work on a grappling-hook
arrow that attaches to the unending-- that ties to

the unending rope so that we have actually
something that will pierce

heavy stone and anchor.

MATT: Okay, all right.

TALIESIN: Like Batman. I don't know why Batman's
on the brain right now. Could be any reason.

MATT: All right.

ORION: I have an Earring of the Wind that I made
that I have not enchanted yet. Can I enchant that

in two days to make another one?

MATT: Another one of the speaking earrings?

ORION: There is the existing functional one, but
over the time since I gave them out I only had

time to make one extra one, but I have to enchant
them also.

MATT: Yeah, I would say you could begin the process, you
get halfway through. It would take you the better

part of a week to complete the earring, which is
what it did before when you first made them. But

you can begin the process. You definitely have
your laboratory now in Greyskull Keep, and that

gives you a bonus to the rolls you make to
enchant it.

ORION: Ooh, can I start it and then if we leave I
can have one of the helpers--

MATT: You could probably have Allura come and
finish it if you wanted to ask her.

ORION: Oh, okay, well. Cool then.

MATT: She doesn't have anything better to do.
(laughs)

ORION: I'll start that, yeah. I'll start doing
the one that I made.

MATT: Okay, getting the enchantment on that. All
right. Go ahead and make your

first tinkering check.

TALIESIN: All right. First tinkering roll is 13.

MATT: 13. Okay. So as opposed to an actual arrow,
what you're doing is you take an extended crossbow

bolt, you blacksmith onto the end of it, extending
it to what would be an actual full-scale longbow

arrow length, but it is a thick metal rod. From
there you create the grappling hook end to it and

what would be essentially-- it's thin, and then
once the rope is pulled or tugged from the back,

it retracts the front part to extend it into a
grappling hook. You get through the process of

creating the rod, and you sketch in a few ideas
for the actual portion of the end of the arrow

that would extend into the grappling hook portion.
Go ahead and make a secondary roll.

TALIESIN: 12.

MATT: 12? Okay. You're having-- this is including
your tinker bonus, your--

TALIESIN: Just proficiency bonus.

MATT: Yeah. So you started having a little bit of
a problem with the mechanism. It keeps sticking

and having a hard time actually retracting or
springing from the arrow point.

TALIESIN: Damn it.

MATT: It takes a little more time than you
anticipated with it. Go ahead and

make a final roll.

SAM: I'm going to inspire him before he makes this
roll with a little inspiration song or something.

MATT: So Scanlan comes down into your workshop
underneath Greyskull Keep. You hear a fine little

ditty to inspire you in your work.

SAM: (sings) Whoa, I hear you're tinkering,
whoa, please do it well. Take my hand and you'll

tinker I swear.

ALL: (sing) Whoa! Please do it well.

(laughter)

TALIESIN: I feel inspired.

SAM: (sing) Tinkering on a prayer!

TALIESIN: There we go. Now I feel inspired.

MATT: I was about to give you a d6, but that'll be
the full d10. So on this final roll, go ahead

and-- what did you roll initially?

TALIESIN: I actually don't even remember, but it
wasn't that bad.

MATT: All right, go.

TALIESIN: All right. So that's 18.

MATT: 18, okay. With that bit of inspiration going
in your little Scanlan-based soundtrack--

TALIESIN: (sings) Tinkering on a prayer.

MATT: -- you realize that some of the gears that
were sticking, you recut them out, insert it, and

like butter (shnk) it sticks out and retracts. So
you have one grappling arrow completed. For

material costs, it came to about 100 gold.

TALIESIN: 100 gold. And then I want to try and
recreate the exploding arrow as my last little

thing I want to do today.

MATT: Okay, okay.

MARISHA: Guys, we've got to go back and get our
money.

LAURA: Yeah, oh my gosh.

TRAVIS: Yeah, no shit.

ORION: That's what we've got to do.

MARISHA: That is like 30k sitting for us in--

SAM: Can we just send our minions to get it? Like
our servants.

TRAVIS: Vax has something he'd like to add.

LAURA: What?

LIAM: Pike, dear, dear friend, can you hear me?

ASHLEY: Oh yes, I know, we're getting to that.

LIAM: I was wondering if maybe you and I could
swing by the temple of Serren-rae and

fix my foot.

TRAVIS and LAURA: Saran Wrap?

ASHLEY: Oh, it's Sarenrae, but that's fine.

LIAM: I'm three-fourths an atheist, darling, but I
know that my foot doesn't fucking work.

ASHLEY: Well, I know. And I was going to say the
past couple days I think I've spent at the temple

trying to sort of reconnect and really just tune
in and apologize and confess.

TALIESIN: Sounds like a day spa.

LAURA: Ooh, that's good.

MATT: And you return to this temple, the same
temple where you yourself were resurrected after

falling to the treachery demon naught but eight
months previous. Returning to that place,

especially after your recent journey and near
brushes with death again, is a very solemn

experience, and there's a part of you that just
feels internally cold, both returning there and

because of your strangely fractured connection
with Sarenrae since you delved into the Underdark

and tapped into your darker side since traveling
abroad on the ship. You take approximately six

hours out of each day to just go in silent prayer
and reach out to her. I will say, go ahead and

make a wisdom check.

ASHLEY: Okay.

LAURA: Ooh, that's good.

ASHLEY: 22.

MATT: At the end of your second six-hour period of
intense--

SAM and MARISHA: Six hours!

MARISHA: It's like an ayahuasca experience.

SAM: Did you have a bathroom break?

MATT: -- intense communion with Sarenrae, sweat
pouring down your body. The room itself is pretty

cold, but for some reason your body is just
growing more and more intense with heat. You feel

yourself internalizing all of the steps and
missteps that you've gone through over these past

six or seven months, trying to find your path,
rediscovering yourself and what you have to do to

prevent yourself or any of your friends from
falling to the fate that you once did, and

explaining to her that your love never left and
that this was all with the ultimate purpose of

achieving her ultimate purpose as her instrument,
and you wish not to cross that again, and if

there's any way to redeem yourself, to let it be
known to you. At the end of that period of time,

you feel since you've lost that connection in the
Underdark, that thread reconnect, the warmth fills

you, and the sweat stops as your entire body seems
to be humming with energy. For a brief second in

your face, in your eyes, in your vision you can
see the beautiful gold, gleaming, fire-wreathed

head of Sarenrae smiling at you as she reaches
down and touches the side of your cheek and says,

"Be forthright. Be grand. Burn bright and
beautiful, and I shall always be at your side."

And with that, she releases your cheek and
vanishes, the vision gone in the temple, and you

can see two other clerics that were silent,
muttering prayer, have gone quiet and are both

staring at you with a look of like, 'what just
happened.'

LAURA: Yay, Pike, yay!

ASHLEY: Yay, yay, yay!

MATT: You look down at your holy symbol, and that
one giant fissure that had cracked

has resealed itself.

(all cheer)

ASHLEY: Hey man, that was my new special Celtic
die that whoever sent to me.

LAURA: Yep.

LIAM: Celebrate by shitting on a bed.

(all laugh)

MATT: It's a cultural gnome thing, right?

ASHLEY: So, well, to start things off, then, how
is Liam's foot?

SAM: Whose?

MATT: It's going okay.

SAM: Who?

ASHLEY: I'm so sorry!

MATT: Who's this Liam guy?

ASHLEY: I'm-- what am I saying? I mean, how is
Vax's foot? I'm not sure who Liam is.

MATT: As you step out--

LIAM: My foot's great, Ashley, thanks.

(all laugh)

MATT: As you step out of the central chamber of
the temple of Sarenrae, Vax has been waiting there

for a while, wanted to actually ask for your aid
in this. As you see her step out of the main

chamber, Vax, she has a look of serenity in her
face you haven't seen in quite some time.

LIAM: Is this the moment?

ASHLEY: Hi.

LIAM: Should I take my shoe off? Vex, look, I'll
take my shoe off.

LAURA: Don't do it. Don't do it.

ASHLEY: Here, just sit on this rock, okay? Take
off your shoe. Hoo.

TALIESIN: For the first time, you're safe.

MATT: And he does.

LAURA: Ugh. That's disgusting.

TRAVIS: Proud of you right now.

LIAM: It's still, you know, it feels strong, but
it's-- it itches. It itches me-- It irks me still.

Perhaps maybe you could give it one more try
today? You seem to have a bit

of a glow about you.

ASHLEY: 30.

MATT: That's a 30? 30 points of healing. As you're
saying this and you're stuttering this out, she

goes into a singular trance, clutches her holy
symbol with one hand, and reaches out and grabs

your foot with the other. Her hand almost burns at
the touch, something you instinctively pull back

on, but her grip is like an iron vice and you
cannot release yourself from it. And as she just

intensely focuses forward, you can see this
glowing divine energy transfer from down her

forearm into your foot. Fear reaches you suddenly
because you don't understand the divine, and

though you've seen some crazy things, this is a
little worrying. You've seen some shit. I want you

to go ahead and make a medicine roll with
advantage.

LIAM: It feels like IcyHot!

(laughter)

TALIESIN: Ye olde IcyHot.

MATT: The scent of Vicks VapoRub hits your
system.

LAURA: And another one, you get advantage, you can do
it again.

ASHLEY: That's a lot better. 24.

MATT: 24. As she releases her grip on you, the
energy fades, her eyes tend to come back into that

natural, soft Pike image you're used to, and
looking down at your foot, you can see any

noticeable sign of scarring, damage is completely
gone. Your foot is whole, intact.

(cheering)

SAM: And your nails have been painted red. Red
nails.

LAURA: Hey, and you know what? It doesn't smell as
bad now.

LIAM: I stick my foot in my sister's face.

LAURA: Yeah, thank you.

ORION: I'm going to miss that bit.

LAURA: It doesn't even smell bad anymore, so thank
you.

LIAM: Well, not so fast.

MATT: Percy.

TALIESIN: Yes.

MATT: How many-- you have time probably to attempt
three arrows.

TALIESIN: I'm going to try for three exploding
arrows. And I've built one before.

MATT: Yes, you have, I know. I'm still keeping
that in mind.

TALIESIN: Thank you.

MATT: Materials per arrow will cost 50 gold.

TALIESIN: Another 150 gold? All right.

LAURA: I'll give it to you.

MATT: So 150 gold for materials. You have your
goggles on--

LAURA: I won't even haggle with you, Percy, I'll
just give it to you. I mean, well, you know. You

know what I mean.

TALIESIN: I certainly do. I know exactly what you
mean. No.

LIAM: That's going a bit beyond winking.

LAURA: (laughs) I know.

TALIESIN: Now I'm nervous.

MATT: So coming off the high from making your
grappling arrow, you sit down, you're alone in the

middle of your workshop, it's hot in there, it's
subterranean, you have the glow of your

candlelight around you, you have your goggles on,
your blacksmith leather gloves on, and you're

tinkering with the delivery method of these small,
concussive arrows. Go ahead and

make your first roll.

TALIESIN: 18.

MATT: 18. With deftness, you rapidly complete the
first arrow, wrapping up the powder charge, the

impact point, and the arrow itself weighted to be
fair and balanced to be flung from a longbow. Make

your second roll.

SAM: Like Fox News.

TALIESIN: All right. 15.

MATT: 15. Second arrow takes a little longer, but
you still manage to keep the flow going, complete

it fine. Third and final roll.

LAURA: Come on, Percy!

TALIESIN: Natural 20.

(cheering)

LAURA: That's an extra-special arrow.

MATT: Not only did you complete this in record
time, but the arrow itself looks beautiful. It

could be a display case item.

LAURA: Does it do extra damage?

MATT: You'll find out. But I would mark that arrow
separately from the other two.

TALIESIN: You would mark it.

MATT: Mark it as two exploding arrows and one
exploding arrow with a star next to it.

LAURA: Okay, I'll do that.

TALIESIN: So you have a grappling hook arrow, two
exploding arrows, and one exploding arrow

with a star.

LAURA: Come here, you beautiful bastard.

TALIESIN: I'm getting to kiss everybody in this
game. I've already made my way through siblings,

this is getting-- all right.

MARISHA: That's so true, you have!

MATT: Ah, you've been to that party before.

TALIESIN: I've kissed the twins. I have, well,
thank you.

MATT: All right, any other business you guys wish
to--

TRAVIS: Yeah, is there a tavern nearby? Just a
quick question.

MATT: There are many taverns. The one you know the
best is the Laughing Lamia, which you guys

previously stayed at.

TRAVIS: It's the biggest one?

MATT: It's pretty large, it's pretty large.

TRAVIS: I'd like to walk to the Laughing Lamia and
knock the doors open and as loud as I can, go,

Listen up! I want to know if anyone has seen any
goliaths wandering around these parts.

Aside from me.

MATT: Do you wish to do this via conversational
persuasion or through intimidation? Because there

are two ways you can go with this, Grog.

LAURA: And you're wearing the belt that makes you
extra persuasive.

MARISHA: Only with dwarves.

TRAVIS: Persuasive... yeah, well, maybe there's
some dwarves hanging about.

MARISHA: There might be some dwarves!

MATT: So how are you doing this? Okay, make a
persuasion roll.

SAM: Can I be with him just to watch?

LAURA: Was there also a grappling arrow, Percy?

MATT: Sure.

SAM: Okay, I'm with you, Grog, just watching.

ORION: I'm still enchanting.

TALIESIN: Possibly reusable.

LAURA: Ooh.

LIAM: Yeah you are.

MARISHA: Can I go read my potion book?

TRAVIS: I got a four. With the belt.

(laughter)

MATT: This is.

MARISHA: What dice are you rolling?

TRAVIS: I grow a giant pubic mane from the belt.

MATT: Enchanted merkin plus two.

ORION: Dude. You've got to check your balanced
dice, man.

MATT: All right. So as you burst in and shout this
to the group, everyone stops and turns and

looks... and then goes right back to drinking and
their conversation. There appears to be no

immediate reaction.

SAM: Can I jump up-- I jump up on a table and I
say, Listen, you motherfuckers, my friend just asked

you a fucking question, now fucking answer him or
I'm going to kill every last

motherfucking one of you!

TRAVIS: I'd listen to him, he means it.

LAURA: Can you do that?

MATT: Make an intimidation check.

TRAVIS: Yeah, yeah!

SAM: Is this a 20?

ASHLEY: Come on, Scanlan.

LAURA: Please be good.

ASHLEY: Come on, Scanlan.

SAM: I rolled, that would be a 30.

TRAVIS: Thug life. That's amazing!

SAM: Oh wait, no. Yes, 28. I added wrong. 28.

MATT: Oh, well that makes the difference. So in an
unseen display, the goliath storms into the bar

and makes no impact, yet the tiniest gnome jumps
onto the table like a ravenous wolverine, frothing

at the mouth, his wild eyes staring about the dark
interior of the Laughing Lamia. All the patrons at

the table around him, you can see, lean back in
fear, caught off-guard by this entirely, one man

holding a drink just drops it and you hear it
shatter on the ground. Everyone gets quiet again,

but stays quiet. Even the small band playing in
the far corner, you hear like (gee-uh), a

discordant sound as all instruments break to a
halt, the dancer stops, the whole room is

dead-silent. At which point a nearby halfling, you
can see he's unkempt, farmer-tan looking fellow,

looks up and he goes, "Um. No...?"

SAM: Thank you for your forthrightness and
honesty.

MATT: At which point a hand claps your shoulder.
You look over and there's a human there, a bearded

older man in his 40s, his hair trimmed very very
short, crew-cut almost. He's wearing what looks

like a patchwork scalemail almost, like mostly
leather but there's a lot of chunks of scales put

around it and he looks scarred and weathered and
he says, "I've traveled this land quite a bit and

"I've heard there's roving bands of goliaths been
attacking folks up north in trade routes. Haven't

"seen any near Emon. Where occasionally you'd hear of
the mountain-folks staying up north, it appears

"they're getting brazen, wandering southward.
Haven't seen them myself, but a friend of mine had

"an encounter once. Lost half his traveling crew.
Had to bury them out there. It was terrible."

SAM: Sounds awful. You said up north, how far?

MATT: "Just in the Silvercoat Runway. The way
south of Kraghammer, on the way to Westruun."

SAM: All right. Anything else you'd like to know,
Grog?

TRAVIS: No, Killer.

SAM: Thank you for your troubles. Here, let me buy
you a drink.

MATT: "All right, I'll take that." And he goes
over, walks with you to the bar, toss him a gold,

he gets his ale, and, "You know, I've always shat
on gnomes, but today I think you've represented

"them well."

SAM: You, my friend, have good taste.

TRAVIS: That was awesome.

I had no idea. That was amazing, Scanlan.

SAM: For you, anything. Hey, grow a beard tomorrow
morning.

TRAVIS: Okay.

MATT: All right, so. We'll say over the period of
two days go by-- Grog,

what's the percentage on your--

TRAVIS: 50% chance.

MATT: Go ahead and roll a percentile dice.

SAM: Oh, we've never done one of those before.

LAURA: Oh, percentile dice!

TRAVIS: That a 20?

LAURA: No, a percentile dice.

SAM: No, it's a percentile dice.

MATT: It's two ten-siders. There should be one
that has double-digits and one that has single.

TRAVIS: Both of them?

MATT: Yeah.

SAM: No, just one.

TRAVIS: 60?

MATT: 60, then roll another one.

SAM: Oh.

TRAVIS: Double zeroes.

LAURA: 100, that's a 100.

MATT: Right, well that was a 60 and then that was
for the second digit, so you rolled a 60.

TRAVIS: Okay, good.

MATT: All right, so, over the period of the next
morning you wake up excited and check... smooth as

a baby's bum.

TRAVIS: Shit.

MATT: However, as the two-day period comes to an
end, you guys acquire, early in the morning that

morning as you finish your breakfast, a messenger
comes to the front of Greyskull Keep and delivers

a summons to the Council of Tal'Dorei that
notifies you that the package has arrived at the

Council. Very very quick, to the point words, not
very verbose, in the idea of keeping it vague and

secret, but you know what it means.

SAM: Do you think it's the model plane I ordered?

LAURA: I think it is, yes.

TRAVIS: Probably not.

SAM: Oh.

TRAVIS: Just a guess, though.

LAURA: Well, should we go?

MATT: So mark down that you spent two of four days
of enchanting on that second earring, and you can

get back to that if you manage to find yourself to
some sort of a laboratory elsewhere, or you can

return to your--

ORION: Can we stop at-- is Allura, is she here or
not?

TRAVIS: Allura?

MATT: Allura? She might be in the Cloudtop
District in her tower. You can inquire.

ORION: And do we-- does she have helpers there,
when we were there, do you remember?

MATT: No, she was just herself.

ORION: It was just herself?

MATT: She runs it herself.

ORION: Okay.

SAM: In the last two days, have I gone back to
Gilmore to pick up my item?

MATT: You got back, your item was completed.

SAM: Excellent.

ASHLEY: What kind of potion did you get?

SAM: It's a potion that, when combined with-- when
consumed, can allow me to leave a mark of some

sort that possibly I could use to have visions of
what is in the area. The mechanics of which I

would not like to get into at this moment.

MATT: So he gives you the potion. "It was a
curious endeavor, but I think you'll be happy with

"the results."

LAURA: It's so he can spy on you.

SAM: Any chance to talk to you, Gilmore, leaves me
happy beyond compare.

MATT: "Oh, stop it, flattery will get you
everywhere."

TRAVIS: If you have an erection for more than 24
hours...

LAURA: Did you get that potion so you can spy on
Pike when she's naked?

SAM: I am offended, and terrified at the
assumption that I would sink so low!

LAURA: Yeah, yeah.

SAM: As to spy on my good friend and future wife
Pike when her pantaloons are down. Not at all. How

dare you. How dare you! Have I ever spied?

LAURA: Yes.

SAM: On a member of our current party?

LAURA: Yes, you have.

ASHLEY: Yes.

ORION: No.

SAM: Current party.

LAURA: Yes.

SAM: Okay. Okay.

(laughter)

TRAVIS: Tiberius, can you bamf us to the place?

SAM: I just wanted to make sure you remembered.

LAURA: Good, I do.

ORION: It doesn't work like that. I can bamf us
back here when we're done.

MATT: All right, so you've acquired your potion,
it's a brackish purple color; it's a purple-grey.

SAM: Purple-grey. Okay. I've got it. Great, thank
you.

MATT: You go back to Karin and indeed the armor is
completed. It's interesting, it makes Trinket look

like a roly-poly, almost.

ALL: Ooh!

LAURA: Oh, that's so cute!

MATT: It's these overlaid giant grey scales that
overlap in armored sections and you would imagine,

if you wanted-- could roll in a ball and she would
look adorable. He would. But yeah,

it's, the armor--

LAURA: You really, really want Trinket to be a
girl.

MATT: I don't know why I've got it in my head, I
don't. You know what it is? It's because my bird I

thought was a boy for the longest time, and we
found out the bird was a girl, and so I got used

to transitioning to she when I talk about animals
since then. I apologize.

LAURA: Oh, I see. Understandable.

MATT: Trinket is a boy.

LAURA: Boy. And maybe he could roll into things
now! It'll be awesome.

MARISHA: Yeah, can he roll?

MATT: We'll try it if you want to?

MARISHA: Roly-poly bear.

MATT: Bears aren't known for their rolling
capabilities.

LAURA: Trinket is a special bear.

ORION: How much does Trinket weigh again? Like 600
pounds?

LAURA: He weighs a lot.

TALIESIN: Call it a "bear-rel" roll.

ORION: He's not over a thousand pounds though. Is it
800 pounds?

MATT: Trinket's pushing about 800 pounds,
probably.

ORION: He's 800 pounds, so.

LAURA: He weighs more than Grog.

ORION: I can fastball special him.

LAURA: (gasps) Fastball special Trinket.

MATT: So the benefits of this. Trinket acquires an
additional plus two to Trinket's armor class over

his previous armor, which he gains from the
bulette.

LAURA: That puts him at 20.

MATT: That's fantastic. Also, Trinket has
resistance against non-magical bludgeoning

damage.

LAURA: Awesome.

MATT: So if anyone attempts to go after Trinket
with a giant hammer or you know something that is

bludgeon-type damage--

ORION: Or a mace.

MATT: -- or a giant mace, anything. If I ever
attack Trinket with something that seems

bludgeoning and you say, ah-ah, is that
bludgeoning? Call me on it and it could be reduced

by half.

SAM: What if someone tries to--

LAURA: So if I did try to roll him into something
it wouldn't hurt him--

MATT: Not as much.

LAURA: -- because that would technically be
bludgeoning.

MATT: In theory, yeah.

LAURA: Okay.

MATT: Hitting the wall, Trinket would be like,
"All right."

SAM: What if someone tried to hit Trinket with a
salmon?

ORION: That's also bludgeoning.

MATT: That's fish damage, it's a different arcane
type of damage. Fire, lightning, fish, it's a

whole thing.

LAURA: Let's go see the Council.

SAM: Let's go. All right. To the Council!

MARISHA: Did I learn anything from my herbalism
book?

MATT: What the books are is you keep them with
you, and if you wish to reference them while

taking any sort of herbalism roll, they will
essentially give you a momentary bonus to it. They

will double your proficiency bonus for any rolls
for herbalism or to harvest

any pieces of a creature.

MARISHA: Dope.

MATT: So keep that in mind.

TRAVIS: Dope.

MARISHA: Dope.

SAM: All right.

TRAVIS: So let's go.

SAM: Let's go to the Council.

MATT: Are you proficient in herbalism?

MARISHA: Huh?

MATT: Are you proficient in herbalism? Or medicine
I guess it would be now, sorry. Herbalism is,

sorry, that's old systems.

MARISHA: I mean, I'm proficient in nature.

MATT: We'll say nature, it'd be nature. I've run
too many systems. Too many games. So we'll say,

are you proficient in nature?

MARISHA: Yeah. Druid, yo.

MATT: So you double your proficiency bonus on any
nature rolls to do either of those things.

MARISHA: Okay.

MATT: Keep that in mind. All right. So. You guys
head to the Cloudtop District towards the palace

in the center. You were about to say something,
Orion?

ORION: Nope.

MATT: Do you want to talk to Allura while you're
here, or not?

ORION: No.

MATT: Okay.

LIAM: You should talk to her. Talk to her.

ORION: She has no interest in me.

LAURA: She looks really pretty today, Tiberius.

TRAVIS: She won't have any interest if you don't
talk to her.

ASHLEY: It looks like she put some lip stuff on.

ORION: I'm sure Lady Kima can satisfy any needs
she has.

LAURA: I think they're just friends, darling.

LIAM: You don't want to look back and regret what
you didn't say.

TRAVIS: (sings) Say what you need to say.

ASHLEY: (sings) Say what you need to say.

TALIESIN: Listen to the tiny disembodied head.

MARISHA: (laughs) Yeah.

ORION: We can stop by there, okay. I only have a
question.

MATT: It's nearly across the street from the
palace. So you head to the ivory tower, you go

ahead and you take the giant circular knocker on
the door, hit it a couple times, eventually Allura

comes, this time in what looks like more
comfortable robes. She was caught off-guard. She

has like a terry cloth or some sort of big fuzzy
material, her hair's a bit in disarray. She opens

the door. "Oh. Hello. Greetings, I'm sorry, I
wasn't expecting company."

MARISHA: What time is it?

MATT: At this point in time it's probably about,
I'd say, 11 in the morning.

LAURA: Oh, she's a late sleeper, I like it.

MARISHA: On like a Sunday?

MATT: Sure.

MARISHA: Roughly.

MATT: Roughly, yeah.

MARISHA: Okay.

ORION: We were about to depart on another
adventure and whatnot, and I was working on an

enchantment on this particular-- I'll show her
what it is.

MATT: "Oh yes, yes, of course."

ORION: It's an enchantment that's easily, you
know, finished enough. I was wondering if in our

absence, in your spare time you could probably put
some time into finishing the enchantment whilst

we're away.

MATT: "That should not be a problem. I was
intending to complete the circle of teleportation

"markings that I had promised you for your Keep in
your absence. So."

ORION: Oh! Just waiting there as well.

MATT: "I could do both while I'm there."

ORION: Thank you so much, Allura.

MATT: "It would be my pleasure, Tiberius."

ORION: It is-- (sputtering) Well. Okay. I'll bid
you farewell. And I'll do Prestidigitation

(pfft)-- a local flower, I'll give to her. For
your trouble.

MATT: A purple dandy, as it's called, it's like a
star-like purple flower, projects itself from your

hand. You hand it to her and you see she puts her
hand in her face a second. "Thank you very much,

"Tiberius, I appreciate it."

ORION: You're welcome.

MATT: She touches your shoulder, gives you a
smile, and then, "Best of luck. Return safely.

"There is-- you've been here too short to leave so
soon, so don't stay long, please."

Closes the door.

LAURA: I shake his shoulders. Look at you!

ORION: Who knew?

LIAM: Do you want to go steady, if so check this.

(laughter)

ORION: Do you like me, yes, no, maybe.

MATT: All right. You guys make your way to the
palace, back to the Council chambers where you met

naught but two days before. The entire Council has
not been summoned to this, it's just about half of

the folks there. You see the actual sovereign
Uriel is not present. The individuals that are

there, however, Tofor Brotorus, the female
dragonborn paladin, is present. Seeker Asum Emring

is present. They are both in the room, and you
notice this immediately as you walk into the green

meeting chamber: there are two envoys that you
haven't previously met, two humans, one male and

one female, dressed in silver and blue robes,
waiting patiently with their hands behind their

backs, and beside them on the ground you see what
looks like a large cube about maybe two feet by

two feet. It's smooth, like a chrome-like silver,
the entire construct of the cube, with two

chain-link handles on each side of the box. There
is a very finely carved sapphire-inlaid patterned

design all over this box. It looks very ornamental
and like it was a painstaking process to craft.

You gather immediately that this probably is the
container which was sent for from Vasselheim.

As you get closer, you notice the carvings almost
have a snowflake-like pattern, it's very geometric

and perpetual, almost a fractal that continues
throughout the entirety of the outside of the box.

It's very intricate and beautiful. As you step
into the room, immediately Tofor stands up and

says, "Ah. They have arrived. Good. I'm glad you
all could make it. The envoys have arrived with

"the container for the Horn. I believe they are
eager and ready to take you as their guards to see

"that this evil is rid of this land forever.
Envoys." And she extends her hand.

They both step forward. The man, young but very
soft in voice and very stern and military almost.

"Hello. I am Scalebearer Vorak. I come under the
Platinum Dragon and will be escorted along with

"you and our delivery."

As he turns to the female who steps forward, she's
older, probably in her forties, long fine hair,

brown, that rests just past her shoulders. Her
features are very very fine, you can see almost

like there is elven blood in her but not
completely, similar to your half-elf compatriots.

She steps forward, her piercing green eyes hit the
group immediately and she goes, "Hello. I am

"Scalebearer Desona, also under the Platinum Dragon
and will be escorting you on this mission." They

both step back towards the box in a very
ceremonial way. Everyone looks to the rest of you.

SAM: Hi, nice to meet you.

LAURA: I'm sorry, I was writing down your name,
Desona, what?

SAM: Was it Vorak and Desona?

LAURA: Desona.

ORION: Hello.

SAM: Lovely to meet you. I'm Scanlan, I'm sort of
the de facto leader of the group.

ORION: That is not true. I am Tiberius Stormwind,
hello, nice to meet you.

SAM: My second.

TRAVIS: Everyone introduce yourself.

TALIESIN: Oh. Percival Fredrickstein Klossowski
von Mussel de Rolo III. At your service.

ORION, LAURA AND TRAVIS: You can call him
Percy.

TALIESIN: They call me Percy.

MATT: They look about the rest of the group.

LAURA: Hello.

SAM: Hi. And you'll be accompanying us on this
arduous journey to the nor-- where are we going?

MATT: "Vasselheim, to the northwest, in the region
of Othanzia."

LAURA: Oh, yes.

MATT: "On the continent of Isilra. It's quite a
ways."

LAURA: Are we taking a skyship?

SAM: We're taking an airship of some sort.

MATT: "Yes, a skyship is to be provided."

They look at the Council, and the Council nods to
themselves and you can see Seeker Emring steps

forward. "Yes, yes, a skyship will be provided,
waiting for you at the skyport here in the

"Cloudtop District. We're just awaiting one more."
As he says that, the door opens again, and you can

see Lady Kima steps in. No longer in the gold
armor that she had found-- scavenged from the

interior, she's now dressed in proper silver and
blue inlaid plate mail.

MARISHA: Who is this?

LAURA: Lady Kima!

MARISHA: Kima.

MATT: She is wearing the same colors as the two
envoys, you can see now the silver and blue theme

of Bahamut is very much on display in this
traveling crew. "Sorry I'm late, had to get

"ready."

LAURA: You look wonderful, Lady Kima.

TRAVIS: Yeah, you look wonderful, Lady Kima.

MATT: "Thank you, thank you."

TALIESIN: Quite, quite.

MATT: "Well, I. Do we have--" She looks about the
rest of the group with a look of somewhat kind

of-- "Do we have the artifact?"

LAURA: Oh.

SAM: Were we supposed to bring that?

TRAVIS: I have it.

MATT: The two Scalebearers reach over and both at
the same time place their hands on the top of this

chest. You can see their fingers slip into these
small holes on the sides and they lift, and the

box scrapes with this high-pitched
metal-against-metal scraping sound, opening up a

chamber on the inside. You can see the interior
also has the same similar scrolling carvings and

engraving on the inside of the box that you saw on
the outside. There is a slight hum almost, like a

slight vibrational sound coming from the inside of
the box. Kima looks to you guys expectantly.

"Shall we place the artifact in its container?"

TRAVIS: Oh, I'll get it. I reach in--

LAURA: No no no, Grog Grog Grog. No.

TALIESIN: No no no no. Tiberius, if you would be
so kind.

LAURA: Mage Hand?

ORION: Oh, yeah. I'll hold the thing up?

TALIESIN: Yes.

LAURA: We're putting it in the box, yeah?

TALIESIN: Putting it in the box.

ORION: Oh!

MATT: So it takes a moment. The use of Mage Hand
in a Bag of Holding is a very meticulous process,

because the Bag of Holding responds to the thought
command of what you're reaching for the moment you

reach in with your physical hand. Using it as an
arcane tether it's almost like reaching through

jello to get there, so you have to really
concentrate to get it through. Eventually the Mage

Hand takes hold of something. You feel the
tingling of something weighty in the grasp of your

arcane focus and as you lift out, there aloft you
can see the dark, twisted Horn of Orcus. As it's

removed, this is the first time the Council's
really seen it at this point, and there's an

audible leaving of breath in the room,
everyone at its presence.

LAURA: Yeah, it's pretty horrible.

ORION: Okay.

TRAVIS: What?

ORION: Hold on a second. We're putting this in the
container, right?

TRAVIS: Yeah, the box, the magic box.

LAURA: Yes.

ORION: I put it inside the Bag of Holding real
quick.

LAURA: Back in the Bag of Holding?

ORION: Yes. I'm going to take off a tiny piece of
one of my tickets of Telescription, and I'm going

to enchant it and I want to attempt to do an
enchantment spell where-- I want to put it at the

bottom of where I'm going to--

LAURA: The box?

ORION: -- the box, and if it's, if any weight is
lifted from it, I'll know. Like, if there's the

old switcheroo somehow--

LIAM: God, I so wish we still had the troll dick
right now.

ORION: Oh man. Because I would've used the troll
dick instead.

MATT: It is already enchanted. To re-enchant it is
a difficult process, plus enchanting anything

would take time. It's essentially an Alarm spell,
you could do it, but it would take

probably half a day.

TRAVIS: I think we can trust them.

ORION: Okay.

LAURA: Plus adding extra runes in there might jack
up the enchantment they already put in the box.

ORION: It's a tiny piece of paper.

TRAVIS: Yeah, I think we're good.

ORION: But fine, if I can't do it then, I just
wanted to say.

MATT: Right, it's fine.

ORION: I put it in there.

ASHLEY: That was a good idea.

MATT: I mean, if you had an Alarm spell at your
disposal too, that would be what the enchantment's

based. I don't know if you learned Alarm, did
you?

ORION: Not yet.

MATT: Yeah. So.

ORION: It's okay.

MATT: That'd be a little different.

ORION: So I put it in the thing.

MATT: Okay. As the Horn gets lowered into it, you
can see the runes on the inside of the box begin

to glow and come to life with this soft
golden-yellow hue, and the Horn seems to be (sss)

pulled into the box and held aloft in the center.
Your Mage Hand no longer has any sway on it, it is

locked in place, just in the center of the box, no
seeming physical anything holding it. It's locked

there. There's almost this creaking sound of air
in there fighting between cold and hot, you can

hear like, (creaking), there's a small
physical battle between the temperatures as they

take the lid and lift it over and seal it shut. 
The two Bearers lift the chains on

the side and lift the box between the two of them.

Kima looks about the rest of you. "So. Onward?"

SAM: Kima, you're coming with us as well?

MATT: "Damn right. I haven't been back to my
temple in quite some time. It will be good to see

"Vord."

ORION: Kima, I'm wondering, who do we speak to?
Who flies the ship?

MATT: "I don't know. I haven't taken a skyship in
quite a while."

LAURA: I'm excited!

TRAVIS: I know, I've never been on one!

MARISHA: I know.

ORION: If we could, maybe we should ask if they
could stop at Kraghammer for a second, we could

drop in and get our money really quick.

TALIESIN: On the way back, I think. Once the Horn
is off the ship.

LAURA: Probably best not to bring it there, yeah.

ORION: You know, yeah, we can use the airship
later on for stuff.

LAURA: Yeah, yeah.

ORION: Which is cool.

LAURA: (laughs) Which is cool.

ORION: We have an airship.

MARISHA: What is this airship made out of?

ORION: Air and ships.

LAURA: And wood and magic.

TRAVIS: It only floats a couple feet off the ground,
it's not that big of a deal.

SAM: I pull Vex aside for one second.

LAURA: Me?

SAM: Yes. Before we go on this quick journey. We
trust all the people who are sending this along

this journey, right? We trust the Council?

LAURA: I believe so. I mean, we did a few insight
type things last time, but I mean,

we can do some more.

SAM: No no no.

ASHLEY: (quietly) But what about the... they sent
the new guards.

SAM: Huh?

LAURA: I think we should definitely talk up the
new guards and see what kind of people they are

when we're on our way to the ship, how about
that?

SAM: All right. Good to go.

TRAVIS: Brother on the guy, sister on the girl?

LAURA: Or Scanlan on one.

TRAVIS: Oh.

SAM: I'll take the girl.

LAURA: I'll take the guy.

TALIESIN: Oh dear.

MATT: All right. You guys make your way out of the
palace towards the northwestern side of the

Cloudtop District, and what you've seen is there
is one thicker tower that is part of the wall that

surrounds the Cloudtop District, what is
essentially the bastion of defense for the inner

part of the city. There are these small pillars
that hold up the wall, there is one that's very

thick, and you've seen only a couple of skyships
travel to and from, you don't see them in use very

often. Usually for very specific modes of travel
or reasonings are these employed. But you can see

this large tower that has a spiral staircase in
the interior that occasionally lets out to these

small windows across the entire length of it as it
rises up hundreds of feet to the very top of the

tower that surrounds this district. On the top you
can see there is a platform that extends outward

on both sides of the wall and you can just barely
make out the top of what looks like some sort of

construct there.

As you make your way, following Kima up the long
spiral staircase, eventually though it seems way

too long to be traveling up a very thick spiral
staircase, you come to what looks like a trapdoor,

almost, like a wooden trapdoor. Kima (hrah) lifts
it over (ting ting), you can hear it slap on the

other side, some of the chains clinking against
the stonework, and daylight comes careening into

this spiral staircase. You all step out to the top
and immediately are hit with the wind. This high

up, there's definitely a breeze that blows
through, your hair being tossed a bit.

(laughter)

ASHLEY: Whoa!

LAURA: This is crazy!

TRAVIS: I'm bald.

MATT: You see roughly five individuals standing,
all in gold and white armor of various types, and

they are seemingly employees. They are currently
standing, waiting for you. There is one individual

that is more adorned in what looks like a
captain's uniform, if you will, and above them,

with a bunch of ropes hanging from the sides of
it, you can see what looks like a large,

beautifully crafted wooden ship that has golden
scrolling, this beautiful elven-like golden

scrolling across the entire underside of this
wooden ship. You don't see propellers, you see

what looks like two almost wing-like protrusions
on the sides of it, almost like two fans that open

up that are probably used to guide pitch. At the
very front of it, you can see what looks to be in

the center of the ship one large ten to 15
foot-wide blue crystal that is embedded in the

front of the ship and on the back two more that
are currently attached to the back side. These

stones slowly rotate in place where they are, and
you can see there's this slight hum of arcane

energy that seems to emanate from them. You can
immediately gather that these three blue stones

are what holds the ship aloft. Silent and
beautiful.

LAURA: Awesome!

MATT: As you guys begin to walk up towards this
ship, looming about 15 or 20 feet in the air, the

individuals in front of you all of a sudden glance
over and notice, and the captain steps forward,

reaches out his hand. "Hi. I'm glad you could
finally make it. We've been waiting for a good 30

"minutes. I'm Captain Damon, I would like to
welcome you aboard the skyship Deera. We are

"traveling across the ocean, it's approximately a
week's worth of travel. We have provisions

"provided for you. Do you have any questions?"

LAURA: Captain Damon?

MATT: "Yes?"

LAURA: Just making sure I got your name.

MARISHA: And like Skipper Veera? Who was?

SAM: Airship. The airship's called Deera. Deera?

MATT: Deera.

MARISHA: Oh, the airship.

ASHLEY: I go up to Captain Damon and I put out my
hand and I say, "Captain Damon, it is a very--

"pleasure is all mine."

MATT: Sturdy shake.

ASHLEY: I was a deckhand on the Broken Howl and we
heard of many adventures that you had, and maybe

you've heard of the Broken Howl, maybe you
haven't, but--

MATT: "No, but I'm willing to hear."

ASHLEY: It's a pleasure to ride on an airship, so
thanks.

MATT: "Oh, it's a pleasure to have you. Keep
everything away from the sides."

MARISHA: I was about to say, I run over to the
side and look over the edge before he says that.

MATT: You guys are still on the platform, he
hasn't led you up to the ship yet.

MARISHA: Does the platform have like a ledge I can
look over?

MATT: Yeah.

MARISHA: Like the Empire State Building?

MATT: Yeah, you can do that.

MARISHA: I want to do that.

MATT: Okay, as you do that, "You really shouldn't
do-- she shouldn't do that."

MARISHA: Guys, this is really high!

MATT: "She really shouldn't do that, I don't--"

LAURA: Keyleth, it's really windy!

TALIESIN: It's all right, she can fly.

TRAVIS: I run up behind her and I grab her
shoulders to scare her.

MARISHA: I climb up on the ledge.

MATT: Okay, as you're climbing up on the ledge,
Grog comes over and goes, "Boo!" and shoves you

and gives you a scare.

MARISHA: Grog!

TRAVIS: Did you pee a little?

MARISHA: A little bit.

MATT: At which point you can see the captain's
like (panting).

LAURA: Don't worry, Captain Damon, they're--

MARISHA: Guys, guys you should try--

ASHLEY: She can fly.

MARISHA: Grog, hold the edge of my shirt, I want
to feel like I'm flying for a second.

TRAVIS: Okay.

MARISHA: Woo-hoo-hoo!

MATT: "If we could all please make our way to the
ship, we will leave post-haste."

MARISHA: Guys, you should try this!

MATT: He slowly facepalms and glances sidelong to
you and goes, "A week. We have a week."

LAURA: A week. Yes.

MATT: "All right."

LIAM: You have flown before. You do remember that,
right?

MARISHA: I know, but I'm always an animal.

ORION: That's true. As they're doing this, I want
to go to the opposite end so I can get like--

because this is beautiful, and I want to hold out
my staff and I--

LAURA: Are you going to take a selfie?

ORION: And I'm going to cast Image Capture--

ASHLEY: Selfie staff.

SAM: Image Capture?

ORION: Yes.

SAM: That's a thing?

ORION: It is in Draconia.

MARISHA: Selfie staff!

LAURA: Are we taking selfies?

MARISHA: Yes, we are.

ORION: Getting all of them and the airship while
they're doing it.

MATT: You use your Prestidigitation to temporarily
capture an image of yourself at the edge of the

top of the tower.

ORION: And the airship is in it too.

MATT: In doing so, the DM imposes disadvantage on
your next two rolls.

ALL: Ohh!

MATT: No, it's fine, it's fine.

SAM: Nobody likes a selfie.

MATT: I just hate selfie sticks so much.

ASHLEY: Well, what about selfie staffs?

LAURA: Selfie staffs, though.

TRAVIS: They are the worst.

MARISHA: Selfie staff.

MATT: I'll let it pass. It's temporary.

ORION: Look, everyone.

LAURA: Oh, that's a good one, that's a really good
one.

MARISHA: That's a good one.

MATT: You hear this loud whistle, this
(wheee-ooo), and the captain you see is blowing on

this loud metal whistle around his neck. "All
aboard! On to the Deera, folks." And everyone

starts climbing up the ropes that are underneath
the ship.

LAURA: Oh, ropes.

ASHLEY: If you guys need any help, I can totally
help. Just so you know.

ORION: (laughs) I can totally do it.

SAM: Captain Damon, just morbid curiosity. Are you
married? Do you have a steady girl?

MATT: He looks at you with surprise, confusion,
worry, shakes his head out of misunderstanding.

"What?"

SAM: Never mind, we'll talk later.

MATT: "All right." He looks entirely side-blasted
by that, he was not expecting that question.

Nothing negative, just really confused. So as you
all climb your way to the deck, you get on top of

it and it is-- the whole deck has this strange,
slow-floating sensation and once you're on the

deck you can hear this crackling hum around the
large blue stones holding it aloft.

LAURA: Wait, how did Trinket get up if we had to
climb ropes?

MATT: We will say (laughs) there are ways, and if
you ask this question, how'd they get Trinket up,

they go ahead--

ORION: Winches.

LAURA: Winches.

MATT: I was going to say, no, the captain gets
back on the ship, goes off to the side, and what

you didn't notice on the far end of the platform
there is like a large crane-like structure.

MARISHA: Cargo.

MATT: They actually raise up Trinket in a small
sling-like contraption.

LAURA: You're okay, darling!

MATT: (worried bear noises) As Trinket's-- it was
bad enough trying to fly when you guys were in the

Underdark.

LAURA: Yeah.

MATT: Now just paddling in the air absentmindedly
as the crane contraption brings Trinket back over

and lowers him onto the deck of the airship
Deera.

LAURA: All right, all right.

MATT: Eventually releasing. Trinket's now on board
and looks noticeably uncomfortable and is in the

center of the ship sitting down.

LIAM: Does that when he's nervous. Don't mind
him, talk to him.

MATT: "All right. Everyone on board?"

SAM: Yes.

LAURA: Yes.

MATT: "All right. To your quarters underneath. We
set out now to Vasselheim." He blows his whistle a

second time. All the hands separate, most of them
go underneath the deck.

LAURA: Where's the box, where's the box. Are we
keeping an eye on the box?

MATT: Yes, you can see now the two Scalebearers
are carrying the box underneath, and on the deck

you can see there are doorways that lead into
various levels underneath the deck of the ship,

there is a large cargo lattice section in the
middle of the ship where they're putting larger

things down below, there is the actual wheel of
the ship is on the back end, on the elevated back

end of the entire ship, and that's where the
captains stands up to as the rest of the hands

bring all the ropes up from the side.

LAURA: I want to stay on top, but I feel like I
should go to keep an eye on the box and see and

make sure.

MATT: It's up to you guys. But as the ropes are
brought up, everyone gives a thumbs-up on the

sides, he reaches the front of the ship's wheel,
you see he takes something from his neck and

places it into the center of the wheel, at which
point the three blue stones spark with additional

life. The humming gets louder, the ship lurches
for a second, and begins to lift upward with

this slow, gradual sensation. All of you at once,
your stomach gets that butterfly sensation for a

second, at which point the captain leans forward,
the actual wheel moves forward slightly, and the

whole ship (whoosh) lurches forward, up and over
Emon, and those of you who are on the deck, you

can look below you over the side, you can see the
entirety of Emon from above slowly drift away as

the endless ocean of the Ozmit Sea comes towards
you, clouds ahead, beginning your trek to the

distant land.

SAM: I can see my Keep from here!

MATT: And you can, you can.

MARISHA: Can we see Castle Greyskull?

MATT: You can see, it's a little blip from here and
it's slowly vanishing, but you can

definitely see it.

MARISHA: Hi, Greyskull Keep!

TALIESIN: We've gotten to sleep there for two
days.

LAURA: Oh, wow.

MARISHA: I know, bye!

MATT: All right, and on that note we'll go ahead
and take our bathroom break real fast,

take a bio rest.

TRAVIS: Five minutes?

MATT: This will be about ten minutes, because I
haven't actually eaten yet either, I haven't had

time to eat the wonderful food that you guys
provided. Thank you again for dinner.

LAURA: Oh, go get food.

MARISHA: Thank you for the food, it's so good.

MATT: Chat bought us an amazing spread. Uh-oh,
Overlords.

ZAC: You guys can go on your break.

MATT: He's got this, we'll see you guys in a moment.

ZAC: I got this.

MATT: All right.

ZAC: I got it. Guys, we have one more Soul Hunters
key to give away, and I think we're just nine subs

from that. We are nine subs away from doing
another book, signed book, and signed photo

giveaway as well, and that'll, huh? Eight, now. I
stand corrected. Guys, thank you for tuning in.

You can still donate to 826LA if they can post
that donation link in the chatroom for you. We

will not be reading donations tonight from
anything less than $20, just so we're not here for

another hour, because that's-- it's a lot of
messages, so $20 and up and we'll read it.

MARISHA: We didn't plug 826 at the top, either.

ZAC: We did not plug 826 at the top, so.

MARISHA: So yeah, for those of you who might be
new, those of you who are veterans, you already

know, but 826LA is our charity of choice. They are
a after-school non-profit program for kids K-12th

grade, and they focus on creative writing and
imaginative storytelling and they're right up our

alley, and they have awesome storefronts. They
have the one in Mar Vista and the one in Echo Park

if you are LA local, and there's probably an 826
in your area.

ZAC: Why don't you and I go film a video with them
at their storefront that we could play in the

in-between parts of the show?

MARISHA: Yes, we need that, I messaged them about
that and they're totally down.

ZAC: Let's do it.

MARISHA: So yeah.

ZAC: So we'll hopefully have a video for you guys
soon that could show you a little bit about 826LA

and who they are so we put a face to the
organization that you guys are donating to. The

other thing I would like to say is-- Lucas, we're
200 away from 4,000?

MARISHA: What what!

ZAC: Right?

Lucas: 207.

ZAC: 207 to be technical. If we get to 4,000 subs
by the end of tonight, I will come up with

something crazy, because that's a crazy goal. It's
stupid-crazy. I know there's a lot of you

watching. Just so you guys know, this channel runs
off subscriptions, that is how we pay our hosts,

that's how we keep the lights turned on, that is
how we do everything. We have a lot of shows on

this channel, lots of different types of content.
We have shows about movies, we have shows about

comic books, it's very different for a Twitch
channel. We're trying to do things a lot

differently. That being said, we don't accept
donations, all donations go to charity 100%. We do

not take any percentage of charity donations, so
subscriptions are the way that this channel keeps

running. If you like this show, and you like our
other programming, you should subscribe, that's

what keeps us going. We're trying to get to 7,000
subscribers, because that's what will make us

break even and start being able to experiment with
newer and much larger programming outside of what

you already see here. So if we get to 4,000 by the
end of tonight... Man, what's something crazy that

I could do? What's that, Liam?

LIAM: Streak!

ZAC: Streak? Thanks, Liam. Yeah, that's great. Not
a good idea. We want that Twitch channel to

continue on, not get shut down immediately. What
if, here's a crazy goal, because I know it's like

200 away, that's almost impossible, but if we get
there, I will make, and just so you guys know, I

made the Critical Role intro video, so I could
make a music video from the cast of Vox Moronica

set within their world with a song that Alex, Ify
and I could come up with and then we could film a

music video basically talking about our escapades
that continued on after the show the other night.

That seems crazy enough, that seems crazy enough,
that's a crazy goal. It would be fun. But pretty

crazy and ridiculous. So I could do that, and I
could have all of our Critical Role guests

featured in the video as their characters in some
way. So 200. Piece of cake, right? Piece of cake.

Yeah, we could get 200 subs. Sure. Not a problem.
Right, guys? I'm going to ask that Lucas roll a

couple commercials, because those commercials help
the channel as well. And after that, we'll roll a

couple of those intro videos and come right back
for you guys.

[dramatic music]

TRAVIS: Right, Listen up! If you have ale, then
you have a friend in Grog Strongjaw. A goliath of

towering height and size, this barbarian has an
appetite for the two great loves in his life:

combat, women, and ale! (chuckle)

(record scratch) Wait.

Easily the brains of the group, Grog is often
consulted for his vast knowledge of shapes,

colors, and (chuckle) shiny things!

Also ale.

In his early years, armed with his two-handed
great axe, Grog often enjoyed proving his might

amongst the ranks of his family's wandering herd.
But after coming upon an unsuspecting elderly

gnome in the woods, he objected to the killing of
such an innocent life. A creature of impulse, Grog

felt only pity for this-- well, this terrified
little thing. And his disobedience

cost him dearly.

Beaten bloody and banished by the herd leader, his
uncle Kevdak, Grog was abandoned and left to die,

exiled from his herd. It was then that the
relative of the very gnome he fought to save,

saved him. It was the kindness of a gnome cleric
named Pike that healed Grog, bringing him back

from death's edge. And they have remained close
friends ever since.

Most nights, Grog can be found challenging entire
taverns to wrestling matches! Ha! Or accompanying

Scanlan to the nearest house where you pay for
lady favors.

Also ale!

MARISHA: A first impression of Keyleth would leave
you with little information on the half-elven

druid. You might even think that her social
awkwardness due to her sheltered upbringing is

kind of sweet. (chuckle)

Of course, it would be unwise to underestimate her
based on first impressions. (thunder) Under that

unintimidating petite frame is a vicious beast
waiting to be unleashed, whose natural powers have

made even the fiercest of champions pee their
pants, literally! (soft chuckle)

Born to the Air Tribe of the Ashari people,
Keyleth was raised with a deep love of nature and

the elemental magics. It is her people's inherent
duty to protect the delicate areas in Tal'Dorei

where the four elemental planes begin to bleed
with this realm.

Since she was a little girl, she had quite a knack
for air manipulation and beast shaping abilities.

Well, if you consider kittens and flying squirrels
to be little beasts. Which, I do. (clears throat)

Anyways, it wasn't long before the headmaster of
the tribe, her father, Korren, realized her true

prodigious abilities and she was inveterated to
succeed him as the next headmaster.

Just like that, her jovial childhood was stripped
and replaced with endless spell memorization,

teachings from ancient traditions, and exceedingly
high expectations. Every druid leader to be must

embark on a journey to seek out the sister tribes in
order to introduce and establish respect amongst

the fellow headmasters. They call this the
Aramente, or Noble Odyssey. When her father felt

she was ready, he set her on the path to truly
discovering herself, not knowing when, or if, she

will ever return.

As she hiked down the mountain towards Stillben,
she meditated on the task ahead. Part of the

Aramente is proving yourself a strong warrior, a
valiant protector, and a wise and compassionate

leader. With this knowledge, one thought plays on
repeat in her mind: Is she even worthy?

TALIESIN: Percy was the third of seven children,
born to a noble family who lived far to the north

in the ancient castle of Whitestone. With so many
siblings to share the burdens of lordship, Percy

turned his attentions to the sciences,
engineering, and naturalism.

One day, a mysterious couple named Lord and Lady
Briarwood came to court. During a feast held in

their honor, the Briarwoods violently took control
of the castle, killing or imprisoning everyone who

would stand in their way.

Percy awoke chained in the dungeon, only to be
freed by his younger sister. Together they fled,

chased by the Briarwoods' men. As they ran,
Percy's sister took several arrows to the chest

and fell. Percy kept running, eventually jumping
into a freezing river and floating unconscious to

freedom. He did not remember waking up on a
fishing boat. He barely remembered the next two

years, as he slowly made his way as far south as
possible.

Then one night, Percy had a dream. A roaring cloud
of smoke offered him vengeance against those who

destroyed his family. When he awoke, Percy began
to design his first gun. (gunshot)

ASHLEY: Pike grew up on the outskirts of town, near
the Bramblewood. Her ancestors were a family of Deep

Gnomes with quite an unfavorable reputation. Thievery,
destruction, and trickery left them with the curse

of the last name Trickfoot. Sarenrae, the goddess of
healing and redemption, had other plans for Pike's

great-great-grandfather Wilhand, who left his family
at a young age after a dream, a dream that changed

the course of the Trickfoot family. Wilhand devoted
his life to Sarenrae and pledged from then on that

him and his family would live a life of service and
devotion. As a child, Pike seemed to have an affinity to heal

Whether it was animals, people, or even flowers, she
felt she had a purpose in making things whole that

had once been broken. She studied and learned the
ways to heal through divine magic. She lived a

peaceful life, quiet and simple, until one day Wilhand
was captured and almost killed by a group of goliath

barbarians. One of the goliaths took a stand against
the murder of the innocent gnome, and he himself

was beaten, bloodied, and left for dead, abandoned
by his herd. Wilhand went to Pike for help. She

prayed and healed this barbarian as best she could,
bringing him back to life. When he awoke, she discovered

his name was Grog Strongjaw. After that, they were
the best of friends, a rather unlikely pair.

Little did she know that in a few years' time, Grog
would soon return the favor and bring her back from

the clutches of death. After being killed in battle,
Pike felt angry. She wanted to be stronger so that it

would never happen again. She spent four months at
sea, training with the men and women aboard a ship

called the Broken Howl. Gripping her holy symbol
in one hand and her morningstar in the other,

this time, Pike is ready.

SAM: Oh, you haven't heard of Scanlan Shorthalt?
Well, gird your loins, ladies, because he has his

eye on you.

A talented musician, master of disguise, and
dashingly handsome in his own mind, Scanlan sings

songs almost as much as he sings his own praises.

Born a poor gnome, Scanlan used his endless charm
and soaring tenor voice to croon for coin and

support his single mother. One day he was
discovered by a half-orc promoter, and joined Dr.

Dranzel's Spectacular Traveling Troupe, where he
learned the ways of the world, and honed his

skills as a bard extraordinaire.

A loner much of his life, Scanlan has never quite
come to terms with the violent death of his mother

at the hands of a goblin invasion. While his years
on the road provided many, shall we say,

educational experiences with the opposite sex,
deep down, Scanlan yearns for the one thing he's

never known: the true love of a fellow gnome.

Still, Scanlan considers himself a lover first,
performer second, and fighter distant third. On

the battlefield, he'll support his allies, but
rarely draws blood, unless it's to protect fellow

gnome, Pike.

Count on Scanlan for a hearty laugh, a rollicking
song, and a twinkle in his eye that melts hearts

and makes the females swoon.

ORION: Greetings and salutations. I am Tiberius
Stormwind. I hail from a town called Ty'rex,

located in the heart of Draconia.

From a politically respected family, at the age of
15, I succeeded in passing the Sorcerer's Rite,

showing prodigy-like control of my magic. The
judges and the Draconian high council were amazed

at how powerful my spells were for how long I had
been training. At 20 years old, I was the youngest

appointed member of the magic guild in Draconian
history. For the next few years, I almost went mad

from the malaise of being a guild member, as it's
rather boring.

However, one day I happened upon a chamber, unused
for quite some time. In the room were stacks of

books and maps of the surrounding cities and areas
around the known world. For months, I would

frequent the chamber, and learned of artifacts
from legend.

After a long period of research, I made a list of
artifacts that caught my eye. I brought these

findings to the high council and was told that all
of the information in the chamber I had stumbled

upon was either believed to be fiction, or
unsolvable mysteries, and hence were lost forever.

I found those answers to be unacceptable.

A year later, I devised a ruse and managed to
convince the city council to lend support in me

leaving Draconia on a mission of peace and
diplomacy for the surrounding kingdoms, going from

town to town and making friends and allies, in and
for the name of Draconia. Being a red dragonborn,

I had quite the task on my hands in that respect,
but it was exactly what I needed so I could

explore the world and find these artifacts, as I
felt the truth was out there.

Some may describe me as buffoonish, but I say
poppycock to all that. I am much sharper than most

give me credit for. I just don't pay attention to
things sometimes. I've also been known to be

rather cunning, loyal, happy-go-lucky, and well,
dangerous. I can't help but show my true scales

every now and then. But overall, I think I'm quite
friendly for a dragonborn!

LIAM: Never entirely welcome in the company of
elves or men, Vax'ildan learned at a young age to

skip past formality, preferring instead to invite
himself in your door.

Along with twin sister Vex'ahlia, Vax was born by
a chance encounter between elven royalty and human

peasantry. Raised by their mother in their early
years, the twins were eventually sent off to their

father in the elven capital of Syngorn. But their
cool reception among the elves there never warmed,

and their time in the capital didn't last. The
siblings stole away one autumn night and set out

on the open road.

After a few years of wandering, they eventually
decided to return to their mother, and journeyed

back to the lands of their youth. But instead of
finding their childhood home, they returned to a

pile of rubble. Their mother was gone, their home
burned to ash. Pressing the townspeople for

answers, they learned of the day the dragon came.
(roar) With their ties all severed, Vax'ildan and

his sister set out to find their fortune together
in Tal'Dorei.

An outsider since birth, Vax quickly learned to
solve life's challenges in his own particular way,

often by side-stepping them entirely. And when his
knack for circumventing adversity isn't enough,

(knife scraping) the way of blades the elves
schooled him in more than

makes up the difference.

LAURA: Like so many half-elves, Vex'ahlia has
spent most of her life suffering the cool

reception of a people who don't fully accept her.
Born of a human mother and an elven father who

only later in life took an interest in their
existence, Vex'ahlia and her twin brother

Vax'ildan quickly realized the only people they
could truly rely on in this world

were each other.

It was at the age of ten when the two were taken
from their mother and brought to live in Syngorn,

the isolated elven city for which their father was
an ambassador. He quietly took them in, but always

kept an icy distance, and after too many years of
disdainful looks, the pair decided to leave his

indifference behind, and set out on their own.

Vax took to the cities, stealing small trinkets
and learning the ways of the thief, while Vex kept

to the woods; she preferred the isolation.

Always the keen observer, she learned to hunt and
to track, to spy and to shoot. And through a

series of fateful events, earned herself a
companion in the form of a bear-- her own stolen

Trinket-- to fight alongside her and protect her
fiercely.

Also, he is adorable, and gives expert massages.

[dramatic music]

MATT: Welcome back. We have eaten, we have had
drinks, we have used the restroom, and now we

return to adventure. While we were gone, I hear
that there was a ridiculous thing that our

wondrous Overlord put as a subscriber
opportunity.

ZAC: I'm going to regret it!

MARISHA: What? What happened?

MATT: If we somehow get to 4,000--

ZAC: We've already gotten 70 subs since
I announced it.

MATT: Okay, so if we get to 4,000 subs tonight,
we're going to have Ify and people of the Vox

Moronica crew, that did our quick little one-shot
at the DM episode, create a rap and shoot a music

video that will include us.

LIAM: Come on, guys, one time offer. You're going
to let it slip through your fingers?

TALIESIN: We're going to do that?

MARISHA: That'll include us?

MATT: That'll include us in it some way.

MARISHA: We're going to shoot a rap video?

TALIESIN: We're going to shoot a rap video?

MATT: If they get to 4,000--

MARISHA: By the end of the show?

MATT: -- subscribers, yeah, by the end of the
show.

ORION: Can we do it like it's from 1993?

ZAC: Oh, I'm going to do it however the
fuck I want to do it, and I can guarantee that Vox

Moronica will look much better in the video than
you guys will.

LAURA: Why would we agree to it?

LIAM: It's just so crazy it might work.

ASHLEY: (gasps) Oh! Is this a challenge?

MARISHA: Oh, is this going to be like a role
reversal thing? In like an alternate universe?

MATT: I think the Overlord just threw down the
gauntlet of Vox Moronica looking better than Vox

Machina in the music video.

LAURA: I think it's on.

TALIESIN: I think he underestimates how naturally
pretty we all are.

MARISHA: (laughing) Yeah.

MATT: I think we're underestimating how naturally
ridiculous that crew is, so it is a good

challenge. It's a tough call.

LIAM: Classic dwarven fundraising technique!

MATT: Thank you kindly, my dear. DM presents are
nice. It's delicious brandy, thank you.

MARISHA: Oh wait, didn't we have cake? I want that
cake up in here. Are we going to wait?

MATT: (sings) You want this cake? I want it! You
want this cake? I want it.

LAURA: It's special.

MATT: Sorry, a little internet there for you.

LIAM: Make me a glass of that grog?

LAURA: Nope, none for you, darling.

ASHLEY: Take a sipsy?

MATT: All right folks. Welcome back. Let's get
back into the swing of things. Quick reminder,

every 50 subscribers we give out a signed player's
handbook and a signed cast photo. We also have the

shirts for sale on the Teespring.

MARISHA: Get some shirts.

TALIESIN: Yes!

SAM: Shirts, shirts, shirts! Two weeks and
counting. 13 days left.

MARISHA: We forgot to wear one of ours, but
they're cool.

ORION: Are they out now?

MARISHA: Yeah.

ORION: Oh, cool!

MARISHA: We made those in honor of E3.

MATT: Soul Hunter keys have been going away, but
for those who missed it earlier there's a new app

out called Soul Hunters that I did some voices on
and if you download the game and put in the promo

code "criticalrole," one word, you get a free
character that I voiced as well so check it out.

TRAVIS: Yeah.

MARISHA: By the way, I will say, Soul Hunters is a
misleading title because that sounds dark and

ominous and it's a super cute game.

TRAVIS: Oh, that's a weird choice then.

MARISHA: Yeah, wouldn't you think it sounds dark
and ominous? It's super cute. It's like with cute

chibi RPG characters.

MATT: Yeah, no, there's no more keys. It's just
the promo code you can use now.

TRAVIS: Weird. Cool choice. Strange, though.

MARISHA: Yeah, I know.

MATT: All right, so. Returning back. You guys are
now traversing the extended Ozmit Sea towards

Othanzia upon the skyship Deera.

ORION: How many days away are we now?

MATT: I'd say, we'll start it about two days into
the journey.

TALIESIN: I'm going to spend that time reading my
book.

MARISHA: Yeah, and me too. I'll read books.

MATT: Okay, you guys take time studying. We'll say
you probably have a few more days of eight-hour

days studying, going about eight to ten hours a
day if you want to take in the reading

books you got.

MARISHA: I'll also go ahead and-- oh you have this
book! Are you reading that book?

TALIESIN: I'm reading that book.

MARISHA: I'm going to make a few scrolls in my
time as well. What should I make scrolls for,

guys? What's handy to have?

SAM: Oh, well, when you made me something once
that was really cool but I think

that was a spell.

MARISHA: What's handy to have? Well, yeah, I can
make spells into scrolls.

TRAVIS: Can you make something so that if we fall
out of the sky we don't die?

SAM: Hey, you know what we always need? What we
always need?

TALIESIN: Anti-petrify?

SAM: How to carry Trinket on the goddamn carpet.

LAURA: Oh yeah!

MARISHA: Right, okay you're talking about the
Levitation and stuff.

LAURA: Well, you guys can shrink him, you have
Polymorph.

MARISHA: Oh yeah, that's true.

SAM: Yeah, but we're always like one body short of
being able to pile onto the carpet.

ASHLEY: Can't we add a little bit extra square
footage to the magic carpet?

MATT: Unfortunately, it doesn't work that way.

MARISHA: I'll make a Polymorph scroll and give it
to--

LIAM: What about a steampunk rocket pack for the
bear?

MARISHA: This isn't World of Warcraft.

TALIESIN: I'm working on it. I'm working on it.
I'm working on it!

ORION: How many can you make?

MARISHA: Well I can make-- I just put whatever
spells I've learned for the day, I can put those--

depending on the level, like a 3rd-level spell
scroll will take me four to six hours, so the

higher the spell, the longer it takes. So, if I
spend two days I can probably make four scrolls?

Four or five scrolls?

LAURA: I like it.

MARISHA: Yeah, that's some pretty good shit. So
I'll definitely make a Polymorph scroll for you.

LAURA: Thank you!

MATT: Let me first double-check about the time
process. Creating a scroll...

MARISHA: That's the way it was in Pathfinder, I am
using Pathfinder rules.

LAURA: I'm getting so many things added to my
inventory during this game.

MARISHA: I know! (singing) We went shopping!

LAURA: This is exciting. I got arrows, I got
scrolls. I have a question about Trinket's new armor.

MATT: Yes?

LAURA: It has an area for me to ride on him still,
right? Like the other armor? I forgot to mention

it to her.

MATT: (laughs) I mean, there's not like a saddle
or anything.

LAURA: But the last one had a divot thing so I
could fit.

MATT: Yeah. It's built off the design of the
original armor that you had customized so, yeah,

that's still there.

TRAVIS: Is there a bow on this ship? Like a front,
pointy part?

MATT: Yes, there is.

TRAVIS: Pike and I would like to go to the front
of the ship and I would like to stand at the front

and put my arms out.

ASHLEY: And I'm going to hold his waist.

TRAVIS: And I'm going to shout: I'm the goliath of
the world!

LIAM: Oh, he fell right off the front.

TRAVIS: No I did not!

(laughter)

TRAVIS: Oh, thank you Pike! I feel like I'm
flying!

ASHLEY: You are! You are!

LIAM: Look at the guns on that gnome!

ORION: I can spend the days crafting and then
wouldn't I just need whatever gold that would be?

MATT: You mean just crafting the jewelry element
of it?

ORION: Yeah, because the enchantment's-- that's
over there. I'm just not doing anything else.

MATT: You didn't bring any crafting tools with you
for that. Crafting jewelry requires a specific

set of tools. Yeah, unfortunately. When you touch
down, you can try to find somebody in the

vicinity. The journey, here, y'know.

ORION: Yeah, airship.

LIAM: Hey DM.

MATT: Yes?

LIAM: Since Vax has nothing really to prepare ever
and he's in obviously peak physical condition, I'm

going to spend the trip helping Keyleth and if she
needs any ingredients for whatever she's doing,

I'll go get them, I'll hold things up for her, I'm
just going to hang out and try to help her get

things done.

LAURA: You're so helpful, brother.

MARISHA: It's like I have a little familiar. A
scroll-making familiar!

MATT: All right, not bad, not bad.

LAURA: I thought you were into Gilmore, darling.
(laughs)

LIAM: I'm hard to pin down.

MATT: For the time being, because I don't want to
spend too much time with the internet watching me

scan through the books to find the rules for
scroll crafting.

LIAM: That's the best part.

MATT: Well, yeah. I'll say for the time being,
it'll take you about half a day to make the

Polymorph scroll and the material components that
are required for the spell putting into the actual

scroll would run you about 300 gold, I'll say. Oh,
400 gold because it's a 4th-level spell isn't it?

What level spell is Polymorph?

MARISHA: Four.

MATT: Okay, 400 gold.

MARISHA: Okay, how much gold do we have left
anyway?

LAURA: Well, I mean, I can use my personal but we
have very little party funds.

MARISHA: Okay, so I still have a little personal
money left too.

MATT: I'm sure it'll be different later but
whatever. They're on a ship so it's hard to get

the materials.

SAM: It's fine, we'll be fine. Don't waste your
money.

MARISHA: No, it's okay. No, I'm going to do it.
That's what money's for. I'm going to do two

Polymorph spells.

MATT: All right.

MARISHA: And give one to Vex and one to Tiberius.

MATT: All right.

LAURA: All right, I'm taking 400 gold out of my
personal.

MARISHA: And I'll take 400 out of mine.

ORION: Oh, I still have mine. I can give you 400.

MARISHA: You'll give me 400? All right.

MATT: All right.

LAURA: I'm spending most of the time up near
Captain Damon, watching him work.

MATT: He seems very focused on keeping the ship
going. He does steer you around one thunderstorm

that's rolling by and takes you on the wide angle
around. It's very relaxing up here, a little cold.

But it's relaxing. Let's say, the beginning of day
three, as you all are resting underneath the hold,

you're all shaken awake by a sudden lurching of
the ship. It just shifts in such a heavy way that

you aren't expecting it. All of you are pulled out
of your stupor for a second and begin coming out

of your individual rooms to check on each other
and see what happened, but apparently the ship is

or was-- some sort of a shuddering physicality to
it.

TRAVIS: I rush to the box.

SAM: I rush to Captain Damon. What the hell just
happened? Also, are you married?

MATT: All right, so you rush straight to the box and as
you go to open the door that leads to the boxes,

you can see, in the room, is Kima and both of the
Scalebearers are there, reaching for weapons as

the door opens. They see you and relax for a
second and Kima goes like, "What was that? What

"was that?"

TRAVIS: I was going to ask you the same thing.

MARISHA: Shit.

MATT: "I have no idea."

ORION: I rush up to the bow.

MARISHA: I also rush to the deck.

MATT: Okay, as you guys are rushing up along with
Scanlan-- everyone else rushes up-- you come to

the surface and you're just cresting into sunrise,
like the sky itself is mostly dark on one side

with the blue slowly leading into a bright
orange-ish yellow to the other side as the morning

light is starting to slowly crest over the
horizon. As you get to the surface you immediately

notice there are a handful of large, winged
creatures that are currently harrying the side of

the boat. As you step to the surface you see
(shhw) one just dives past you real fast. You

notice as one of them takes off in the
distance-- it was just a blur of quick-moving

wings-- it looks dragon-like in its physicality but
it's smaller than any dragon you've encountered.

It's flapping giant wings and lets out a 
screech as it takes off, but it looks like there's

something on its back.

TRAVIS: What?

MATT: You see two to three more of these now
starting to divebomb.

SAM: It's Daenerys!

MATT: You can see the rest of the deckhands are up
there now, with weapons ready, and are starting to

fight some of these off.

LAURA: Can we use any kind of perception to see if
the things on them are controlling them?

MATT: Go ahead and make a perception check.

LAURA: I get plus two for any dragon-y things.

MATT: Good to know!

SAM: Tiberius, your brothers are here!

ORION: I don't think I'm associated with these.

LAURA: 19.

MATT: 19. Glancing at the backs of these--

LIAM: (garbled) 26!

MATT: What did you say?

TRAVIS: What?

LIAM: 26.

MATT: 26. All right, between the two of you, you notice
that even in this low-light circumstance, there

appear to be on three of these winged, dragon-like
creatures smallish, humanoid entities that are on

small, almost leather strapped saddles that are
put on the sides of this creature. They're

clutching onto it and each one is carrying some
sort of large, spear-like weapon. There is a

fourth one in the distance that does not appear to
be dragonoid. This one appears to be

feather-covered in its physical form.

MARISHA: Feather-covered?

ORION: There's a big large one, right though?

MATT: Yes. Which, at this moment, we are going to
roll initiative.

MARISHA: Can I do a nature check?

MATT: You can.

LAURA: Okay, okay, okay, okay.

ORION: I cast Blur before any of that shit. I
didn't get to say what I wanted to do.

TALIESIN: Ugh. That's the worst initiative I am
capable of having.

SAM: I'm just going to keep rolling until I get a
better number.

MARISHA: Do I do a nature roll first or should I
do an initiative roll first?

SAM: Wow.

TRAVIS: Sweet.

MARISHA: Can I do a nature check first?

MATT: First, I want to place you guys. So you guys
are coming up from below, so I would

probably put you--

LAURA: Oh my God look at the ship!

ASHLEY: Whoa!

MARISHA: Cool, look at that!

SAM: Oh, I like that.

TRAVIS: Dude, that's pretty.

LAURA: Look at the crystals!

SAM: Oh, wow. I like how all of our viewers are
just looking at our midsections.

LIAM: Aw, I've got to turn on Twitch so I can see
it.

MARISHA: Turn on Twitch, turn on Twitch!

MATT: Oh, Liam.

TRAVIS: Here, I'll pick you up. Don't do it.
Ready?

LAURA: It looks like the crystals are really 3D in
the picture.

ASHLEY: (gasps) Matt!

LIAM: Well, the Twitch, the Twitch is up.

LAURA: That's amazing!

LIAM: (gasps) This is like that Jabba's Cruiser
game that came out.

TRAVIS: Totally.

LIAM: Anybody, anybody?

LAURA: No.

TRAVIS: Yeah.

SAM: Yes. Yeah sure, that.

TRAVIS: (whisper) Return of the Jedi.

MATT: All righty, so.

LAURA: Oh my gosh. Whoa.

MATT: As you guys come up to the surface, you can
see these three entities swooping around and

dive-bombing the remainder of the guard and
deckhands that are now, currently, have haphazard

armor on and they're trying to strike at these
things as they swing by. Let's go ahead and roll

initiative, folks.

TRAVIS: Did it.

MARISHA: Oh, that's not bad, that's all right.
I'll take that.

MATT: So, we have 25 to 20?

LAURA: 22.

MATT: 22.

LIAM: 20.

MATT: Who else had their hand up?

LAURA: 20.

MATT: Okay, so 20. All right. 20 to 15?

ORION: 19.

TRAVIS: 19.

LIAM: 20.

LAURA: (laughs) He heard you.

TRAVIS: We already got your 20.

SAM: We got your damn 20.

MARISHA: 17.

MATT: Hold on.

TRAVIS: 19, 19.

MATT: 17, you said, Keyleth?

MARISHA: Yep.

MATT: All right. 15 to ten?

TRAVIS: 15 to ten?

MATT: Ten to five?

TALIESIN: Nine.

SAM: Eight.

TRAVIS: Look at Percy.

LAURA: What did you get?

SAM: We always get the lowest.

ASHLEY: What up, four?

MATT: Yeah. (laughs)

ASHLEY: Hey, it's not bad for the cleric to go
last.

LAURA: That's true!

MATT: All right. So, top of the round. Vex, you've
got this.

LAURA: Okay! I'm going to do-- they're all far
away from each other, aren't they?

MATT: They're all pretty spread out now, yeah.
They're all recouping from what looked like a

coordinated attack, and you can see, there appears
to be-- what you normally see are about four to

five deckhands. There's only three up there right
now with Captain Damon.

LAURA: Jeez Louise.

MATT: They're either sleeping or not currently in
the battle.

ORION: What color are the dragons?

MATT: From what you can tell, the dragon-like
creatures-- which, as you get a better look at

these moment, you know these. A large number of
the Draconian army utilizes these as mounts. These

are wyverns, and they are all in a ruddy, brown,
brass-like coloration to their form. Best you can

tell in this light. All right. Vex, what are you
doing?

LAURA: I am going to Hunter's Mark one of the ones
with the rider on them.

MATT: Okay. All of them have a rider, it seems.

LAURA: Oh, all of them?

ORION: Yes.

LAURA: Even the one with feathers?

MATT: Even the one with feathers.

LAURA: I'll go for the feathered one, then.

MATT: All right. Hunter's Mark.

LAURA: Hunter's Mark! Hunter's ring.

MATT: Hunter's ring. All right.

LAURA: And I'm going to Hail of Thorns him at a
level three.

MATT: Okay.

LAURA: Yeah?

MATT: What's the range of that?

LAURA: It just says a ranged weapon.

MATT: So whatever your weapon's range is. What's
your weapon's range for your longbow?

LAURA: That is a really good question. I'm going
to run forward.

MATT: All right. How far are you going to run?

LAURA: That looks about right.

MATT: That's as far as you can go with your
movement.

LAURA: Yeah. That means I can duck against one of
those walls where the stairs is, right?

MATT: Yeah.

LAURA: Okay, cool.

MATT: It will help you out with that. All right,
so the range of the longbow comes to 150-- yeah,

you're fine.

LAURA: So a regular attack.

MATT: Yep, so roll for attack on him.

LAURA: 17.

MATT: 17 does hit.

LAURA: Yes! Okay, so regular attack and then also
thorn attack, right?

MATT: Yep. So you go ahead and roll damage for the
spell at level three.

LAURA: And three. 23 plus my regular 14.

MATT: Nice, so a total of 37? Nice! Is that a
radial explosion?

LAURA: Yeah, so that should get him and the rider
on the Hail of Thorns part.

MATT: Good, so the rider itself also takes the
damage. All right, so as you release the arrow,

(ssch) it arcs through the air, and you see the
wind itself is very strong at this point in the

morning, but you still manage, thanks to your
training and the magical nature of the arrow that

you fire, strikes true, slamming into the side of
this giant-- and you can see it now, flying, with

this beaked eagle-like head. This is a griffon.
You've seen them occasionally, usually wild, and

you stay away from them. This one appears to be
used and harnessed as a mount. However, the arrow

slams into it and detonates with a spray of
magical thorns. You can see it recoils back, giving

this (screech) sound.

LAURA: Oh! Hunter's Mark! I said it. Three
additional damage for Hunter's Mark on that.

MATT: All right. Great. (laughs) So that's your
bonus action and your first attack. You get a

second normal attack, too.

LAURA: Oh, shit! Awesome. Let's do it.

TRAVIS: It just explodes in thorns. It's not a
fire arrow?

MATT: No.

LAURA: That is a 24.

MATT: 24 definitively hits.

LAURA: Okay.

MATT: Against the griffon, as well?

LAURA: Yes.

MATT: All right.

LAURA: Ten.

MATT: Ten damage, all right. Got it. So as the
griffon's reeling back and trying to flap away, a

second arrow strikes it in its side. It
screeches again in pain and begins to rise

up over the actual area. Ooh, I get to use these
again.

TRAVIS: Yeah, yeah, yeah.

MATT: I love it.

LAURA: I love it!

MATT: All right. So that ends your turn. I believe
you've moved and done everything else.

All righty.

LAURA: Oh, I didn't move Trinket at all.

MATT: You can move Trinket if you want, still.

LAURA: I want him to be near me.

MATT: Okay, Trinket moves up to you, ready to
guard angrily.

LAURA: Yeah, but blocking on the wall.

MATT: Up in here?

LAURA: Yeah.

MATT: All right. That ends your turn. Next up,
these guards all shift over to these three

emplacements over here. You have large, defensive
bolts that are locked into the sides of the ship

and they go ahead and they reach over in the
barrel and you can see they take one out, and each

one of these giant bolts has a rope attached to
the end of it, and they start loading it into it,

pulling back to prepare it for an attack.
It takes their entire turn to do that, but now

they're at the ready to strike out against
whatever they can manage to aim on.

TRAVIS: Is that also at the front of the ship, is
that what that is?

MATT: One on the front ship there, and one on each
side there. That ends their turn. Vax, you're up.

LIAM: All right, I'm running up right behind my
sister's shoulder and because of my Assassinate

perk I have advantage on this because they haven't
gone, yeah?

MATT: Correct.

LIAM: So I'm going to click my boots of haste as I
come up behind her and dagger-dagger-dagger over

her shoulder. I'll use my brand-new Dagger of
Life-Stealing for the first time. That was a 19,

which is a critical hit for me.

MATT: You are at disadvantage on these attacks
because they are beyond your 20 foot

dagger-throwing range.

LIAM: Okay, well, I had advantage for Assassinate,
and disadvantage for the distance, so that brings

me down to even. My first roll was a 19, which is
still a critical hit for me.

MATT: Is that how it works?

(laughter)

MATT: Let me double-check here. You have
advantage-- it's true, you do.

LIAM: They haven't gone yet.

MATT: No, it hasn't, you have advantage, it
cancels it out, so yes. That first strike is a

critical hit on this wyvern right here.

LIAM: Throwing over my sister's shoulder, so--

LAURA: Warn me first!

LIAM: So here we go. Rolling dice in Jersey, it's
wonderful.

MARISHA: (laughs) Rolling dice in New Jersey.

LIAM: That makes ten. So that's a 20 for that.

MATT: All right.

LIAM: And I'm going to start slinging the other
two daggers.

MATT: All right.

LIAM: First one probably misses, it's a 14.

MATT: A 14 against the wyvern?

LIAM: Well, I don't know, do these all get
advantage?

MATT: Technically, that's another good question.
Huh. Look at this.

LIAM: All three are before they go.

MATT: It's true, that's why I'm thinking probably,
I'm pretty sure you can get advantage on... yeah,

on attack rolls against any creatures not in
combat yet, so yeah.

LIAM: All right, so then actually that was a 20.

MATT: All right, that definitely hits.

LIAM: Okay. That is an eight and the third dagger
goes (wa-shing) right over Vex's

shoulder for a 27.

MATT: All right.

LIAM: This one is the poison dagger of course, so
that is ten of damage and then

it's a DC of 15 for poison.

MATT: All right. The dagger strikes true, you are
uncertain if it's had an effect unfortunately. At

this distance, it's hard to tell its physical
reaction to the impact. However, the dagger seems

to be making definite damaged appearances to its
physical exterior and you see it recoiling from

the attacks and begins to once again fly up as
well to try and get out of range.

LIAM: I'm happy.

MATT: All right. That ends your turn. It's now the
griffon's turn, griffon and the griffon rider.

LAURA: Oh no.

MATT: The griffon rider and the griffon are going
to swoop down, half its movement, it's going to

attempt to grapple against that guard.

MARISHA: Grappling?

TALIESIN: Grapple-grapple.

LAURA AND MARISHA: Oh no.

TRAVIS: That the captain?

MATT: Who fails his check. Grabs--

MARISHA: Oh no, he's going to throw him over the
edge.

MATT: Grabs this guard into its claws--

LIAM: Not Simon.

MATT: And then flies up and over this side--

MARISHA: He's going to toss his ass over the
edge!

MATT: And he's going to release it.

TRAVIS: Oh, you are shitting me!

MARISHA: Does someone have a reaction?

MATT: He's going to attempt-- if you have
something crazy.

MARISHA: Can someone do anything? Reaction?

MATT: The guard misses-- or fails to hold on tight
with his last reaction to try and grapple back.

TALIESIN: That's such dick.

MATT: The guard, you watch as the griffon swoops
down, grabs him, both of its claws and talons

wrapping around his shoulders, lifting him up, and
chucking him over the side, you hear him scream

(ahhh) as he vanishes.

LAURA: As a reaction, can we fricking tie
ourselves down to the boat?

MATT: You have no ropes immediately around you,
you have to go to the side.

LAURA: I do, I have the rope of--

MATT: You have nothing to tie it to at the
moment.

LAURA: Shit. Trinket.

MATT: You have the pegs all on the side here where
the ropes attach to, so you guys could do that.

MARISHA: I have some Grasping Vines?

ASHLEY: We could just attach it to all of
ourselves, and where we go one, we go all. If they

take one, they take all of us.

MATT: And with the last bit of the griffon's
flight movement, that was then there.

MARISHA: It would make it--

ASHLEY: It wouldn't be able to lift all of us.

MARISHA: Well, it would make it difficult, he
would have to break against strength checks

against Grog and stuff, yeah.

MATT: So there is the griffon's current position
on its turn. That ends there. Tiberius and Grog

both go.

ORION: Okay, I'm going to move over here.

MATT: Okay, so one, two, three, four, five, six.
That's as far as you can get there.

ORION: I'm still in range of that guy, right?

MATT: Yeah.

ORION: Good. I'm going to use Telekinesis to lift
the rider off and chuck him off.

MATT: Go ahead and make your check plus five with
your modifier.

ORION: So that's-- no, but it's still okay. That's
16 plus my this thing, that's 19?

LIAM: Come on, Tiberius.

MATT: So the rider, which as you look over you can
see appears to be small and halfling-like in

physical form-- you reach over with your
Telekinesis spell and concentrate. The entity

that's gripping onto it and holding the spear
all of a sudden gets lifted up and

then flung off the side.

ORION: And I turn to the wyvern and I go,
(speaking Draconic) and I, in dragon-speak or

Draconic, whatever, I say--

MARISHA: You say, "Bad dragon!"

ORION: Fight with me or be free.

LAURA: Or be free? And be free.

ORION: Or. He can, meaning--

LAURA: Oh, I get it.

MARISHA: Or go peace out.

LAURA: Okay.

ORION: Right.

LIAM: It all sounded like Enya to me.

MATT: Make-- I'll say for this one, make an animal
handling roll.

ASHLEY: Come on.

LAURA: Natural 20.

ASHLEY: Advantage because you're a dragonborn.

ORION: Nope.

LIAM: Come on, Tibber-hoods.

ORION: Like eight, yeah.

MATT: Okay. Good to know.

MARISHA: Did you have disadvantage?

ORION: No, I had advantage.

MARISHA: Oh.

MATT: Yeah. So this halfling or gnomish entity is
now falling out of the air. That ends Tiberius's

turn. Grog, what's up?

TRAVIS: I turn to the group and say, Make sure
someone guards the box in case it's a distraction.

And then I rage. And I would like to run to the
front of the ship where the captain was, as far as

I can--

MATT: The captain's right here.

TRAVIS: Oh, the captain's there?

MATT: Yes, the back of the ship--

LAURA: That was the guard.

MATT: The guard got flung off the side, the
captain's still out there holding on to the--

TRAVIS: I will run to the front crystal.

MATT: Okay.

TRAVIS: If I can get there. It's 40 feet is how
far I can go.

MATT: 40 feet is right there.

TRAVIS: Son of a bitch. Okay.

MATT: Well, you raged as a bonus action, you could
use your action to dash and go the rest of the

distance, doubling your movement.

TRAVIS: I wanted to tie myself to something,
though.

MATT: Okay.

LAURA: You could run to the side and tie yourself
to--

TALIESIN: What is that thing at the very front of
the ship?

MATT: Right there? It's another one of these
ballistas. They've all been set, this one has been

set to fire, just the person who was currently
helming it got chucked off the side.

MARISHA: Ooh, you're the shooty guy.

TRAVIS: Is there a railing on the side of the ship
at all?

MATT: There is a railing, it's about waist-high.

LAURA: And there's pegs to tie yourself to on the
sides.

MATT: Yeah, each one of these dots.

TRAVIS: Okay, I have a hundred feet of chain. Can
I take the chain out of the bag of holding, wrap

it around my wrist, and wrap it around the
railing, and then that'll be all I do.

Can I do that?

MATT: Yeah? With your movement, you can get to
there, unless you wanted to instead head

over here and--

TRAVIS: Yeah, I'll do that.

MATT: So instead of going further up that route,
you go ahead and wrap the chain around there,

sure. Chain around your wrist, you tangle it in
with your Chain of Returning. You go ahead and

take the chain and wrap it around the side of the
peg and pull it taut. That's your turn. All right.

That ends Grog's turn. Keyleth, you're up.

MARISHA: I'm going to move my speed over
here-ish.

MATT: All right.

MARISHA: And then would you say I'm 60 feet,
within range of that guy?

MATT: Oh yeah. You're within 25, 30 feet of him.

MARISHA: Oh, am I? Well, let me back up a bit,
then. Just right-- Oh, I can walk across that.

MATT: Yeah.

MARISHA: Oh, fun.

MATT: It's a wooden lattice basically, it's mostly
covered. It's what they remove when they're

putting large cargo in the ship.

MARISHA: Right. Gotcha. And there's still a rider
on that guy?

MATT: Yes, there's a rider on all of them.

MARISHA: Okay. I am going to cast Polymorph on
that wyvern, and I turn him into a bunny rabbit.

TRAVIS: (laughs) You're going to kill a bunny.

SAM: No, he won't die, he won't die.

MARISHA: Oh, I am going to kill a bunny.

LAURA: Six hit points?

ASHLEY: The guy riding him's going to be like
ahhh!

TALIESIN: That is the least innocent thing she's
killed in this game so far.

TRAVIS: That is an Acme cartoon waiting to
happen.

MARISHA: That is true. I just think it's going to
be funny. That's pretty much what I thought.

LIAM: Buck, buck. Thanks, Easter Bunny!

MATT: All right, so what's the DC on that?

MARISHA: I guess make a wisdom saving throw-- the
wyvern has to make a wisdom saving throw.

MATT: What's your DC on that? Your spell DC.

MARISHA: 18.

MATT: Into what creature?

MARISHA: A wyvern.

A bunny.

MATT: Okay, so. So. (laughs)

MARISHA: Or you know what, you know what would be
funnier?

TRAVIS: Stick with the bunny, the bunny's good.

MARISHA: Yeah, we'll stick with the bunny.

MATT: The wyvern turns into a bunny
rabbit from underneath its rider and goes (squeak)

and then plummets, the rider of which
begins to fall as well--

MARISHA: Bye!

MATT: -- immediately tossing a grappling hook as it
falls.

MARISHA: He came prepared.

LIAM: He's falling so slowly.

LAURA: That's awesome!

MARISHA: Thanks. That was my turn.

TRAVIS: That was slick.

MATT: All right, that brings us-- So now the
wyverns' turn.

LAURA: Where did the music go?

TRAVIS: Why has the music died??

ALL: (sing battle music)

MATT: It's coming, guys, don't worry.

LAURA: (laughs) There it was.

MATT: This wyvern turns and dives down to catch
its rider, lift it back up onto its back, but it

uses its entire turn doing so. Wasted their turn
on that element.

ORION: Wait, what?

MARISHA and SAM: The wyvern caught his rider.

ORION: How is that possible?

LAURA: It happened in like
second-second-second-second.

MATT: You threw it off the side, and for the
wyvern's turn immediately it dove down, caught the

rider, and it helped it back onto its back, but
that took its entire turn to do that.

TRAVIS: Bad wyvern.

ORION: Okay.

TALIESIN: But well-trained.

TRAVIS: Bad. Wyvern.

MATT: This wyvern is plummeting as a bunny rabbit
now through the air. It's going to attempt

to make its saving throw.

TRAVIS: Fail, fail.

MARISHA: Fail!

MATT: Does Polymorph allow a saving throw every
round if it's against its will?

TRAVIS: Fail.

LAURA: I don't think-- I remember you had to be
damaged, right?

TRAVIS: Bunny go splat, bunny go die.

MARISHA: Actually, yeah, I think--

ASHLEY: Bunny go bye-bye.

TRAVIS: Thumper's toast.

MARISHA: It lasts for the duration or until the
target drops to zero hit points or dies.

MATT: Yeah, so no.

MARISHA: He just, you know, is a falling bunny.

MATT: He's a falling bunny. That is going to be
one dead wyvern.

LAURA: That's amazing. Everything's falling.

MARISHA: Will you let me know when he hits the
ground, when he falls?

MATT: I will, don't worry.

SAM: Well it's the ocean, right?

MATT: Yeah.

TRAVIS: You'll hear the guts splat out of it.

SAM: Might end up not hitting...

MATT: Terminal velocity for a bunny rabbit. I have
to consider this as a DM now. This is a thing in

my existence.

MARISHA: Yeah, it's the same. You throw a penny,
you throw a cow off the Empire State Building,

they'll both fall at the same time.

ASHLEY: How high up are we, and how much does the
bunny weigh?

MATT: It's hard to tell, you cannot make any
details--

ASHLEY: Let's do the math.

MATT: You're so far above the ocean that you can
barely make out any details of it, and what you

can see is so fine in the distance you gather...
you're a long, long way up.

LIAM: Getting flashes of Holy Grail here.

MATT: Exactly. So the grappling hook (woo tink)
onto the side here.

LAURA: Oh no, it's that jerk.

MATT: The rope swings, and this guy spends his
turn getting up onto the side of the boat there

and that's his turn. Next, this wyvern here is
going to swoop down. As it does, its rider leaps

off, landing right there. The wyvern comes over
here and is going to make attacks on you.

LAURA: No!

MATT: First it comes back with its bite. It has no
arms, its arms are its wings, it has taloned feet.

Comes down and bites at you with its giant toothy
maw. That's going to be a 25

to hit with its bite.

LAURA: Fudge.

MATT: So you take 13 points of piercing damage.

LAURA: All right.

MATT: It's not going to use its claws, because
instead, as it brings its claws up in a rearing

position, its tail whips underneath it with this
gnarled pointed stinger at you--

LAURA: At me still?

MATT: As you're the one that shot an exploding
arrow at its friend.

LAURA: Oh, all right.

MATT: This is going to be-- that's a 20 to hit.

LAURA: Okay, so my armor class is 19 but I'm
wearing a plus two Ring of Protection.

MATT: Right, but that's with your--

LAURA: Is that with the plus two ring?

MATT: That's with the plus two, yeah.

LAURA: So it hits me then.

TALIESIN: I like that little dance, looks quite
nice.

MATT: So, for that... You take ten points of
piercing damage, and I need you to make a DC 15

constitution saving throw, as the stinger at the
end of its tail pierces you in the side of your

torso. And as it does you can feel the venom pulse
in the inside of your skin.

LAURA: So I have to beat 15?

MATT: Yeah.

MARISHA: You got this!

TRAVIS: Confidently. Roll that shit.

MATT: No? As the poison pulses through your system
you feel your muscles seize up with this horrible,

painful, burning sensation.

LAURA: (exaggerated pain noises)

TRAVIS: Buffy.

LAURA: (laughs) Yeah.

MATT: You take... 26 points of poison damage.

LAURA: Holy fudge, dude!

TRAVIS: How much? 26?

LAURA: 26!

MATT: 26 points of poison damage.

MARISHA: Ouch. Ouchies.

LAURA: I've got to start doing math now.

MATT: The individual that hopped off of it, now
you can see is a halfling; dressed in dark

leather, face is obscured, pulls a longbow out.
And pulls out two arrows at once, pulls back and

(tssk) releases them.

MARISHA: Oh.

MATT: One is going for you, Keyleth. The other is
going for Trinket.

MARISHA: These guys got skills.

MATT: That is a 22 versus you, Keyleth.

MARISHA: Yeah.

MATT: And a 20 versus Trinket.

LAURA: He's got 20.

MATT: All right.

LAURA: Oh no!

MATT: You take 12 points of piercing damage.

MARISHA: Okay.

MATT: Trinket takes five points of piercing
damage.

LAURA: Okay okay okay... okay...

MATT: That ends their turn. All right, brings it
to Percy.

MARISHA: Go Percy, go Percy, go!

TALIESIN: How far away am I from that wyvern
that's currently attacking everybody?

MATT: Right there?

TALIESIN: Yeah.

MATT: You're right here, so you're about-- roughly
45 feet from him.

TRAVIS: (sings) Shave and a haircut.

TALIESIN: This will be funny. Okay, I'm going to
back up and sit down against the back wall of the ship.

MATT: Okay. Against the doorway.

TALIESIN: I'm going to pull out the biggest gun I
have. So, I'm going to pull out Bad News.

TRAVIS: Yes! Fuck yes!

TALIESIN: I'm going to sit down. I'm going to take
aim and I'm going to do-- I'm going to spend a

Grit, and try and take a wing shot at this.

MATT: At this wyvern here?

TALIESIN: Yes.

MATT: All right.

MARISHA: What's a wing shot?

TALIESIN: Well, we'll see if it works.

LAURA: Trying to shoot the wing.

TALIESIN: I'm shooting him in the wing.

MARISHA: That sounds awesome. Oh. You mean
literally. Right. Sure. Yeah. (laughs)

TALIESIN: 18?

MATT: Hits.

SAM: Just winged him.

TALIESIN: Okay. 19, 20-- Really? Where's my d12s,
I was not prepared for this. Here we go. 14 points

of damage, and he has to make a constitution
saving throw.

SAM: We're just letting that guard die, right?
We're not going to try to...

LAURA: I didn't realize we could save him.

TALIESIN: 23.

MATT: No. Fails that.

TALIESIN: Okay. That wyvern drops hard, 20 feet.

MATT: All right. So that wyvern who is roughly
about ten feet up, you shoot it in the wing (psh!).

It blows a big old hole in the side of its
leathery wing. As you do, the impact sends its

wing arm crumbling behind it. It spins
uncontrollably in the space and then plummets to

the ground, on its back, just reaching and
scrambling trying to get back up. So it's

currently prone on the ground.

TALIESIN: Boom! All right, thank you.

MATT: No worries.

LAURA: Deal with it.

TALIESIN: And I reload.

MATT: All right. Scanlan, you're up.

SAM: Ah! I'll take a few steps towards the action
and I'll cast (sings) Bigby's Hand, Bigby's

Hand, you know it, shamone. On the griffon.

MATT: All right.

SAM: Is he above the boat or just above the
ocean?

MATT: Currently above the ocean, just near the
edge of the boat.

SAM: Can I use Forceful Hand, it says I can push.
Do you think I can... twist?

LAURA: Stop it!

ORION: Sorry.

MATT: You know what, you could.

SAM: So I'm going to dump him over.

MATT: Okay. Go ahead and make a check with your
bonus.

SAM: Oh, and this is all through the Hand Cone of
Clarity. Of course.

MATT: Right, right. So go ahead and roll and add
five.

SAM: 19 plus five, 24.

MATT: 19... plus three. So the griffon, all of a
sudden, there's this giant, shimmering Bigby's Hand. As

you reach out, this gargantuan version of a
Scanlan fist comes rocketing through the sky, the

fingers unraveling, clutching the griffon. Its
wings seemingly pulled up and crunched for a

second as it is suddenly (shft) lifted. Its rider
who is holding on to the reins in the front is now

dangling, and going to attempt to try and hold
on... and rolls a three.

(cheering)

MATT: The rider immediately plummets, falls right
towards the edge of the ship.

LAURA: Hits the railing. Breaks his back.

MATT: Makes an acrobatics check and manages to
reduce the damage and land on its feet, however it

does still take nine points of falling damage.

TRAVIS: Is he a halfling as well?

MATT: No, this actually seems a very lithe,
elven-looking individual. Like very thin form,

face and body all covered, appears to be female.
From best you can tell, just from the

physicality.

LAURA: She's going down.

SAM: I'm also going to inspire Vex.

With just a-- just for her archery skills.

MATT: Go for it.

SAM: Okay. (sings) Elvish people in the ship
tonight, everybody just have a good fight.

(laughter)

MATT: All right, you get a d10 inspiration dice
for it, for your use.

LAURA: Yeah!

ASHLEY: Yeah!

MATT: So that ends your turn. Pike, you're up.

ASHLEY: Okay, how long is the ship?

MATT: The full length of it?

LAURA: (laughs) Show him.

ASHLEY: Just so you know what I'm looking at right
now, I'll show you again.

MATT: (laughs) This ship?

ASHLEY: This ship right here.

MATT: This ship right here?

ASHLEY: Yeah. That one.

MATT: Sure. Okay.

ASHLEY: No.

MATT: I'd say it'd be about 130 feet in-- or 140
feet.

ASHLEY: Okay, so would you say, maybe this area
would be about like 60 feet?

MATT: 60 foot radius, you mean?

ASHLEY: Yeah, how-- where would--

MATT: A 60 foot radius for you would be... right
here.

ASHLEY: Okay.

MATT: Like this around you.

ASHLEY: Okay.

LAURA: But you can move.

ASHLEY: I would like to reach down-- stay where I
am-- and touch the floor of the ship,

and cast Hallow?

MATT: Hallow? Okay.

SAM: I am so hard right now. I mean, Scanlan.

ASHLEY: Which basically infuses a 60 foot radius
with holy power, and any creatures or anything

can't harm anything inside the radius.

MATT: All righty. It takes-- look at the casting
time on the spell.

LAURA: Oh no.

ASHLEY: God. Dang it.

(laughter)

TRAVIS: 24 hours.

ASHLEY: Scratch that! Okay, so here's what we're
going to do.

MARISHA: 24 hours?

MATT: 24 hours. Hallow works, you take 24 hours
and that land, where you do that, is like that

until someone dispels it.

LAURA: Oh wow.

ASHLEY: Should have done it when we first got on
the ship.

TRAVIS: It's like with Hermione and her protection
spell.

ASHLEY: Okay. That's good to know. Would have been
cool.

MATT: Instead?

ASHLEY: Instead, I'm going to Guiding Bolt this
guy right here.

MATT: This guy here?

ASHLEY: No wait. The flying guy right here.

MATT: Oh, that one?

ASHLEY: Yeah.

MATT: Okay. You currently can't see him,
unfortunately. That is down below the ship because

it swooped down to pick up the guy who had fallen,
so he is currently out of your view.

LAURA: (whispers) Guiding Bolt the griffon.

ASHLEY: Cool. I'll Guiding Bolt-- I can't do that
griffon up there, can I?

MATT: What's the range on Guiding Bolt? Might be
able to.

ASHLEY: 120 feet.

MATT: Yeah, you can get him from there.

ASHLEY: Yeah, okay. I'll do that.

MATT: All right. Make your ranged spell attack.
Roll a d20, add that bonus.

ASHLEY: Oh, man, that's a one.

MATT: So in your confusion, you reach back to
shoot the wyvern that's on the other side of the

ship. It's not there, and so while the spell is
releasing itself, you're like, "Crap! That one!"

And by the time you turn around to redirect the
divine energy blast, it arcs off

in a random direction.

ASHLEY: What a fail of a motherfucking turn.

(laughter)

MATT: You still have a bonus action.

ASHLEY: Can I still move, if I use my Sprinter's
Boots?

MATT: Yeah, you can still move. You haven't moved
yet.

ASHLEY: Okay, I'm going to Sprinter's Boots over
to Vex.

LAURA: That's me!

LIAM: Sprinter's Boots. Sprinter's Boots!

MATT: With Sprinter's Boots, you can get there.

ASHLEY: And I'm going to give her a Superior
Healing Potion.

MATT: Okay. You haven't used it yet, but you have
one.

LAURA: Okay.

ASHLEY: Oh, I can't give it to her.

MATT: She has it. You handed it to her, but she
hasn't--

ASHLEY: Here's a Superior Healing Potion!

LAURA: I didn't have one! Thanks, Pike!

ASHLEY: A potion turn.

LAURA: I can't wait.

I'll wait and do it.

MATT: All right. Top of the round.

ASHLEY: Wait, so she has to use that on her turn,
then?

MATT: Yeah.

LAURA: That's okay. That's okay!

ASHLEY: All right. Let's just go past this really
fast.

(laughter)

MATT: Oh, Pike.

ASHLEY: Let's move on.

MATT: That's okay. Vex, you're up.

LAURA: Okay! You know what I'm going to do? I'm
going to use a Superior Healing Potion, which is

how many-- what do I roll for that?

MATT: Superior Healing Potion? That is-- wow, 8d4
plus eight.

LAURA: Whoa.

MATT: Yeah, it's a big old heal. She's drinking a
potion that Pike just gave her.

SAM: Were you hurt?

LAURA: Uh-huh, actually very severely.

ASHLEY: I just healed her.

SAM: Thanks, Pike.

LAURA: I'm going to add those up in just a second.
That's a lot of adding.

MATT: (laughs) Oh, d4.

LAURA: Okay, but first I'm going to-- he's on the
ground, so if I step away from him he doesn't get a--

MATT: Correct, he is not threatening.

LAURA: Okay, so I'm going to move away from that
guy.

MATT: All right.

LAURA: I'm going to--

MATT: How far?

LAURA: Actually, I'm not going to move-- I'm going
to move against the railing around Grog.

Can I do that?

MATT: Yeah, you can move around.

LAURA: Yeah, and I'm going to stand next to Grog
and hope he overshadows me. And I'm going to

Lightning Arrow the griffon.

MATT: All righty. Go ahead and roll for attack on
that.

LAURA: Why do I feel like a griffon will be immune
to lightning attack?

ORION: No, it's birds.

LAURA: They're fine, right?

SAM: Of course.

ORION: Birds hate lightning.

SAM: The griffon is grappled, too. Well, not
grappled.

MARISHA: (laughs) Birds hate lightning.

LAURA: That is 4d8. Oh, I have to roll to see if I
hit.

MATT: Roll for the attack, yeah.

LAURA: Okay, which one looks like a Lightning
Arrow? This, the amethyst, looks like

a lightning one.

MATT: There you go.

LAURA: Okay, that's good, that's 25?

MATT: 25, yeah.

LAURA: Okay, so now it's 4d8. 15.

MATT: 15 points of damage to it? All right. So as
you run around Grog, as you rush around his

shoulder you grab one arrow, pull it back, nock it
in your bow, and underneath his arm as he's

reaching up with his axe, you release an
arrow. As you release it into the air, it almost

seems to spark with energy. Halfway to its mark,
all of a sudden the speed it's traveling at

increases, increases, increases, and you see
energy begin to (crackle) off the front.

It slams into the side of the griffon with
a blast of energy and electricity surge through

its body. The griffon loses about ten feet of
height before it catches itself. You can see this

giant burn mark on the side of its body. It's
having a hard time keeping itself in the air. It's

looking pretty rough.

LAURA: For my second attack, I'm going to have
Trinket charge the elf girl in red.

MATT: Okay.

LAURA: Or no, he's going to attack the wyvern
that's on the ground, that makes more sense.

Doesn't it?

ORION: Shoot his wing off!

LAURA: And bash him with his new armor, and you
know do stuff.

(laughter)

MATT: All right, so as you fire an arrow, Trinket
turns around and comes forward. Go ahead

and roll an attack for Trinket.

LAURA: Okay. I don't know if I've ever attacked
with Trinket.

MATT: You have before, it's been a while.

LAURA: It's been a really long time.

TALIESIN: Like possibly Pathfinder a while.

MARISHA: Yeah, it's been a while.

ORION: Yay, Trinket.

LAURA: And he rolled a one.

SAM: With inspiration.

LAURA: With inspiration-- no, it's a one.

MATT: A one is an auto-miss.

LAURA: It's a frickin' one.

MATT: So Trinket goes to attack, the wyvern's on
the ground, it's screeching around, moving its

body, its tail whips out and strikes Trinket in
the side of the armor, almost piercing it with the

poisonous stinger. Trinket instinctively--

LAURA: Oh shit, I forgot I was poisoned.

MATT: Yeah. It's okay. It ricochets off the armor,
but Trinket instinctively recoils from it and

foregoes the attack to take a defensive stance.

SAM: We're not doing well.

LAURA: I forgot I was poisoned! Shit.

MATT: These weapons set up.

LAURA: Oh, I'm going to finish the healing potion
just for now.

MATT: Okay, go for it. This guard pulls back and
aims the ballista up towards the griffon that's in

the air, releases the bolt that streaks
through the air. The bolt rushes past the griffon,

unfortunately not finding purchase, the rope
leading off into the distance. As he sees the

rope, the entire giant bolt misses, curses and
takes a dagger out and cuts the rope and it just

disappears out over the side and he goes, spends
the rest of his turn getting ready to prepare for

a second shot. This one over here currently has
the ready-to-fire bolt, has no means of doing so,

instead draws a weapon and begins to rush over to
try and join the fray with the wyvern over here,

he can't quite get all the way over to fight it.
That ends his turn. Vax, you're up.

TRAVIS: This guy's still alive in the back,
right?

MATT: Yeah, you just can't see him.

TRAVIS: Okay. We can't see him.

LIAM: I'm going to run up alongside Trinket on the
side and stab the grounded wyvern

two or three times.

MATT: Okay, you have your boots of haste, so you
can do this, because you have to go up the stairs

here to get to the next level. Right there. All
right, so now you're up on the--

LIAM: I'll use keen dagger to start, gets a 23.

MATT: All right. That hits.

LIAM: Okay, so that's 11 points of damage plus the
Sneak Attack damage.

MATT: Oh, this is going to be nasty.

SAM: Leave some for Grog!

LIAM: 13 Sneak Attack damage, so that's 11 plus
13, first dagger.

MATT: Nice, 24 damage.

LIAM: Second dagger gets a 26.

MATT: Hits.

LIAM: Hits. That is a ten of damage and the third
dagger gets a 16.

MATT: 16 does hit. Go ahead and roll damage.

LIAM: It does, it does? Very nice.

MATT: Yeah.

TRAVIS: Come on, Jersey, roll that shit.

MARISHA: Yeah, Jersey.

MATT: Technically all these attacks-- the creature
is prone so you have advantage on these attacks

too, by the way.

LIAM: Oh, well. Did they all hit?

MATT: Yes. Go ahead and roll a second one for this
last one just on the off-chance

it might critical.

LIAM: It was less.

MATT: Okay, so then you're fine, all right.

LIAM: Should I throw two more? Okay, I'm good with
everything else.

MATT: So damage on the last one?

LIAM: Oh, it was... eight.

MATT: Eight, got you. All right, so as you rush
around Trinket, you come up with your daggers,

stab-stab-stab, you're jamming it in the side and
you can see the dark black dragon blood spilling

out of each wound as you're piercing it, it's
screeching out and trying to get back to its feet

in the process, but you just keep finding each
opening and jamming in with your blades.

LIAM: And as a bonus action I want to take my hand
under Trinket's ears and go,

wooga-wooga-wooga-wooga.

MATT: (laughs) Trinket goes (bear noises) and rubs
into them.

LAURA: Would you mind healing him? He's low on
health.

LIAM: Such a glass half empty girl.

MATT: The griffon is going to take its turn. 40.
It's going to swoop down towards Keyleth. It's

going to attempt to grapple you.

MARISHA: I go, Hey friend!

MATT: Go ahead and make either an acrobatics or
athletics check, your choice.

TRAVIS: Oh no.

MARISHA: Let's do athletics. Oh. It's okay. 15.

MATT: 15? The griffon reaches down, (ksh ksh)
grapples into you with each of its talons and

lifts up, carrying you and it--

MARISHA: It's okay guys, I'll be fine!

MATT: -- shoves you off the side. You begin to
plummet off the side of the ship, you see it

vanish above you.

SAM: She'll be fine, she'll be fine.

MARISHA: I'll be fine!

LAURA: Look, Keyleth, it's what you wanted.

MARISHA: This is fun!

MATT: Tiberius and Grog.

ORION: So that thing went to go save his dude. I
turn to him, super annoyed, and I go,

(speaking Draconian) and I use Telekinesis and I 
rip off his wing.

MATT: Which guy?

ORION: The wyvern.

LIAM: All of them.

LAURA: You can rip off his whole wing?

MATT: This one here you can't see, it's like far
below the ship because it dove down to catch its

guy, it's not currently in visible range. Like,
this is off the board, essentially, it's down

below there.

ORION: Oh, crap.

LAURA: Rip all the griffon's feathers off.

ORION: I don't do any of that stuff. Just pluck
it. This is annoying you.

MARISHA: Prepare it for dinner.

ORION: What's going on? Who's this dude over
here?

MATT: This is one of the riders that managed to
just barely grapple on and pull itself to the top

of the ship.

ORION: And this is the elven--

MATT: This is the elven one who was on top of the
griffon.

ORION: Okay.

MATT: It got dumped off by Scanlan.

ORION: Oh. Let's see. How many between the two...
how many-- what's the distance between-- what's

this thing right here?

MATT: That's one of the ballistas at the front.
It's ready to fire, it just hasn't been fired yet.

SAM: Lotta questions, lotta questions.

ORION: Oh. That's fun. Okay. I'm going to use my
movement to get around over here-- because that's

all 60 feet, right?

MATT: Yeah.

ORION: Ah, cool. Well then, I'll use-- screw it,
I'll use Telekinesis to pick up that elf and huck

it right into the ballista.

MATT: Okay. Go ahead and make your roll, d20 plus
five.

ORION: Ooh, natural 20.

(cheering)

MATT: So you take-- the elf is down, pulling two
blades out, is lifted up in the air and flung off to

the side. The female form slams into the ballista
from behind, setting it off. You see now the bolt

just arcs off the side of the boat.

SAM: Nice.

MATT: The elf, which, it's currently grappled now
and held against the side, takes seven points of

impact damage from the full slamming attack. All
right. The ballista was aimed this way.

MARISHA: Oh, were you trying to skewer him?

ORION: Yeah.

MARISHA AND LAURA: Oh.

ORION: I still do that. I lift him up and do that
instead.

MATT: Ballista's already fired, though.

TRAVIS: It's gone.

LAURA: Yeah, it's gone.

MATT: I mean, you slam him into it and fire it
off.

LAURA: That's okay, you still flung him real
hard.

ORION: Cool, that's my turn.

MATT: Sorry.

ORION: It's fine.

MARISHA: You and Ashley.

ASHLEY: We had a week off.

MATT: Yeah, you're getting into the swing of
things.

ASHLEY: Getting our wiggles out.

MATT: Grog, you're up.

TRAVIS: Seeing the wyvern at my feet, I feel that
familiar tremble in my loins and I take my hand

out of the chain and I go into a frenzied rage.

ORION: Yay, rage!

TRAVIS: And I would like to butcher the
ever-living fuck out of that mini-dragon.

MATT: All right, make an attack. It's starting to
get to its feet now.

TRAVIS: Oh, hold on, kitty. 15 plus eight is--

MATT: You still have advantage on it, by the way,
remember, because it's still technically prone.

TRAVIS: Oh. 23.

MATT: Hits.

TRAVIS: 23 again.

MATT: Roll.

LAURA: No, you already did it.

TRAVIS: Natural 20.

MATT: So hit, critical, and...

TRAVIS: The third one.

LAURA: What?

MARISHA: That makes up for so much shit.

ASHLEY: Kill him, kill him!

TRAVIS: 18.

MATT: Hits.

TRAVIS: Nice, all three.

MATT: Hit, critical, hit. So for the first hit?

TRAVIS: Eight.

MATT: Eight damage?

TRAVIS: Yeah.

MATT: Even with the bonus?

TRAVIS: Yeah, I rolled a one.

MATT: A one, okay, so eight. Now your critical.

TRAVIS: Critical, so is that two of these? 2d12?

MATT: Just roll it once and double the number.

TRAVIS: Oh, awesome, 19.

MATT: Add that plus at the end, so whatever you
rolled--

TRAVIS: 19.

MATT: You rolled a 19?

TRAVIS: I rolled a 12 plus--

MATT: So 12, that's 24 plus seven.

TRAVIS: Oh, gotcha.

MATT: So 31.

TRAVIS: 31.

MATT: All righty.

TRAVIS: And the last one. 16.

MATT: Nice! So you just smack, smack, smack the
giant axe, as with each arc backward you can see

the blood spray just through the air, it's
spattering part of the ship. It's screeching in

pain, trying to reach around it for some sort of
purchase. You leave gaping wounds in its side. It

still seems to be ready to go.

LAURA: These things are hard.

MATT: Pretty tough. Pretty tough, these wyverns.

SAM: Did you take the wyvern or the rider?

TRAVIS: Wyvern.

MATT: So Grog, you stay where you are?

TRAVIS: Yes.

MATT: All right. That ends your turn. Keyleth, you
are currently falling.

MARISHA: Before I turn into anything, I take in
the scenery, and I'm like, "This is peaceful."

MATT: Very serene.

MARISHA: Nice. And then I turn into an air
elemental (whoosh).

SAM: Is that a thing?

MARISHA: Yes.

TRAVIS: Not a shark?

MARISHA: Not a shark, I know.

LAURA: That could be cool too.

MARISHA: That would be funny.

TALIESIN: Turn into a flying shark.

MARISHA: And I'm like, Oops.

SAM: My head is like a shark's fin.

TRAVIS: For when this goes in the water.

TALIESIN: Intelligent flying shark.

MATT: In my disappointing haste, I forgot to bring
your elemental figures and I apologize.

MARISHA: It's okay, I'm air. So I'm there.

MATT: We'll use this, we'll put this around you.
So this is you as an air elemental right there. So

pretty. You're air.

LAURA: Around you.

MATT: Sorry, guys, usually better about that.
Today's been crazy. So you--

MARISHA: I turn into 'poof.'

MATT: Now in your natural element, there is no
fall, you stop yourself immediately. You're no

more than maybe 20 feet below the bow of the
ship.

MARISHA: Okay, cool. I'm only 20 feet? Awesome.

MATT: What's your flying speed? As an earth
elemental?

MARISHA: It's 60. It's the same, like all of them
if you're moving through air and such,

I'm pretty sure.

MATT: Your own terrain, 60? Yeah. So you can get
up onto the bow and still have 40 feet to go.

MARISHA: Okay, so. Who's the nearest bad guy?

MATT: The griffon that just threw you off.

MARISHA: Is that a bad guy next to him? Or is that
a guard?

MATT: That's a bad guy right there. That's a
guard, that's what was riding--

MARISHA: My air elemental's a big space, right?

MATT: Yes, a large.

MARISHA: Okay. So here's what I do. I go up and
I'm like (whoosh) this big dark scary cloud, and

then I go up and I'm going to do Whirlwind and I
go full tornado.

MATT: Okay.

MARISHA: Full twister.

MATT: This form-- you guys have never seen this
before. All of a sudden, this giant angry cluster

of elemental energy, this wind, begins to (wind
sounds) like angry eyes almost, based on the

energy source within, begin swirling in this giant
cyclone. Localized. Both the griffon being pulled

into it as well as the other creature on the side.
The effects of that?

MARISHA: They have to make a DC 13 strength saving
throw.

MATT: All right. The griffon does succeed. This
wyvern-rider does not.

MARISHA: Awesome. On a failure a target takes 3d8
plus two bludgeoning damage.

MATT: Nice.

MARISHA: So I'll do that real quick. That's okay,
so two, one, roll this one. Five. Ten damage.

MATT: All righty.

MARISHA: And he's flung 20 feet in a random
direction and knocked prone.

MATT: All right. A random direction.

MARISHA: Hopefully it's randomly off the side of
the ship.

MATT: Random direction. We'll say it's wherever
the four is there. Four. Falls off and actually

slams into the top of this--

MARISHA: Wing?

MATT: -- this wing. It begins to slide off and is
going to attempt to catch itself on the edge of

the wing.

TRAVIS: Fail! Fail!

MARISHA: Fail, fail!

MATT: Fails.

(shouting)

TALIESIN: Save every one of us.

MATT: Is flung off the side and falls out of view.
Damn, all right. You still have about 40 feet, or

30 feet of movement at this point.

MARISHA: Oh wait, and if the target hits like a
wall he takes 1d6 bludgeoning damage for every ten

feet he was thrown.

TALIESIN: I think he's going to hit a lot of
bludgeoning damage when he hits the ocean.

MARISHA: If the saving throw's successful, the
target takes half the bludgeoning damage and isn't

flung or thrown--

MATT: All right, so five damage?

MARISHA: Yeah, he still takes five damage.

MATT: Okay. From the buffeting of the wind,
griffon manages to keep itself in place. All

right. That end your turn?

MARISHA: That ends my turn.

MATT: All right. Now it's the wyvern and the
wyvern-riders' turn. This wyvern gets up to its

feet again, no longer prone. It's going to, after
being stabbed repeatedly and axed repeatedly, it's

going to angrily strike out... It's going to go
ahead and make a bite attack and a stinger attack.

Bite attack's going to be at you, Grog, stinger
attack's going to be at Vax, since he's right

behind him. Bite attack against you, Grog, is
going to be a 22 to hit.

TRAVIS: That hits.

MATT: All right. You go ahead and take--

TRAVIS: Would that be bludgeoning, piercing, or
slashing, by any chance?

MATT: That would be piercing.

TRAVIS: I half on that.

MATT: Yes you do. So you would take 14 points of
damage. You take seven instead.

TRAVIS: Okay, all right.

MATT: Because you have too many hit points and
don't like damage. Against-- that's a natural 20.

SAM: Natural 20.

MATT: Natural 20 on you, Vax.

LAURA: Oh no! Twinsie!

MATT: So I'm going to assume that hits. (laughs)
So Vax, you take--

LIAM: He's at disadvantage because I'm on Skype?

(laughter)

ASHLEY: And wasn't he prone?

TRAVIS: No, he's up.

LAURA: He's up now, yeah.

MATT: All right. So that is, you take 25 points of
piercing damage from the stinger.

LIAM: Wait, what did he roll?

TRAVIS: Natural 20.

MATT: He rolled a natural 20.

LIAM: A natural 20? Then he hits.

MATT: Yeah. So you take 25 points of piercing
damage, 25 points of piercing damage, and I need

you to make a constitution saving throw.

LIAM: All right.

LAURA: Roll well.

ASHLEY: Come on.

LIAM: I'm doing it. I'm in New Jersey and I'm
rolling for constitution. That's a five.

MARISHA: To be fair, you're in Jersey, so.

SAM: It's the birthplace of the Constitution.

TRAVIS: Yeah, I think that's accurate.

SAM: No, I think it's Philadelphia, it's
Philadelphia.

MATT: All right. So you take 29 points of poison
damage as the stinger shoots out from the wyvern,

pierces you in the abdomen, already stabbing
through your guts, and you can feel it destroying

a lot of your internal organs, and then all of a
sudden there's a pulse of burning, fiery pain as

the poison just disperses into your system as it
pulls out of your torso. That's rough.

LIAM: Yeah, I'm not doing too well.

ASHLEY: Where are you at?

LIAM: Well, I'm doing really bad, let's just say
that.

MATT: That's that wyvern. The other wyvern is
still plummeting as a bunny.

LAURA: He hasn't hit the water yet?

MATT: No, you guys are a ways up.

LAURA: Whoa.

MATT: This wyvern swings up now with its rider.

LIAM: I don't feel so good.

LAURA: Take a healing potion!

MATT: Does a fly-by here with its movement. Its
rider, who's currently clutching a spear-type

object, flings it down at the blue crystal. As it
slams into the crystal, there's a spark of energy

and the blue crystal seems to wink out of magical
energy, its coloration growing dark. The entire

ship begins to list to one side.
Everyone shifts 15 feet this way.

SAM: Oh my god.

LAURA: Wait, which way? Oh, we all shift, so okay,
we're already against the railing.

MATT: Yeah, on the stairway. Tiberius, I'm going
to go ahead and have you roll an acrobatics check

to try and catch yourself, because you're on the
stairs when you get knocked off.

ORION: Nope.

MATT: So you fall prone, 15 feet there, on the
ground.

LAURA: Oh no. Can we all Star Trek it?

MATT: This guy's going to try to catch himself
here.

ALL: Whoa!

MATT: Catches himself. This elf here goes to
there. This guy moves 15 feet to there. Keyleth

isn't touched.

TALIESIN: You've got to grip the table for that.

LAURA: Oh yeah, you've got to grip.

MATT: Wyvern slides and catches itself off the
edge. Pushed there. Pushed to the stairs.

MARISHA: Is that wyvern flying?

MATT: I need Grog and Vex to each make... Make a
dexterity check to try and catch yourself on the

edge of the boat.

MARISHA: Son of a bitch. Come on, you guys.

TRAVIS: 21.

SAM: Vex, I've inspired you.

LAURA: That's true, but I don't need it.

LIAM: Do not kill my sister while I'm away.

LAURA: That's a 29 for me.

MATT: Both of you guys manage-- you're flung to
the side, hit the railing, your bodies tumble over

the side, and both Grog and Vex catch the railing
and are now dangling on the side of the ship as

it's listing to the side. You both look over at
each other with a (sigh of relief).

TRAVIS: Hi.

LAURA: Hey.

TRAVIS: Crazy shit, huh?

MATT: So that's his action. As the continuation of
its movement, the wyvern comes down towards the

now caught off his-- knocked away from the reins
of the ship, is going to attempt

to grapple the captain.

SAM: Not Damon!

LAURA: No, not Damon!

SAM: Oh no, not handsome Damon. Oh, no.

MATT: Fails his roll.

LAURA: Damon, no!

MATT: Is now grappled by the wyvern.

MARISHA: Son of a fuck, we can't lose our
captain.

ASHLEY: I can captain the ship if I need to.

MATT: Reaches the edge of the ship, it doesn't
have enough movement to get him all the way off,

but is in the process of dragging him off. You can
see the captain is now reaching up, trying to

fight his way off the wyvern who's dragging him
off the edge of the ship, but that's as far as it

can go with the rest of its movement, since it had
to move up and over the edge of the ship. That's

the end of its turn.

MARISHA: Damn it.

MATT: I'm going to put it at about there.

LAURA: Oh no. Everything's falling.

MATT: It happens. Dedicated little miniatures. All
right. That brings us to... That's all their

turns. Percy, you're up. The ship now (sliding
sound), this weird object now is just like

sparking energy at the edge of the blue crystal.

TALIESIN: I'm going to just hold on to Bad News as
I'm flicking around, I'm going to pull out my

Pepperbox, I'm going to take a wing shot at that
bastard right there.

MATT: Right there? Okay.

LIAM: Do it, Percy, do it.

TALIESIN: (laughs) 29.

MATT: 29 definitively hits.

TALIESIN: That definitively hits. So let's figure
out what we're going to do to this person.

TRAVIS: Yeah, come on. We got a flat tire.

TALIESIN: That's nine points of damage plus a 14
constitution saving roll--

MATT: Which with a five it does not make.

TALIESIN: So it drops 20 feet.

MATT: It drops 20 feet, slams into the deck. It
isn't knocked prone, but the captain is slammed

into the ground as well and is not currently being
held over the edge of the ship. It still has him

in its clutches, but he's not being dangled over
the edge.

TALIESIN: He still has him in his claws, though.

MATT: Yeah.

TALIESIN: All right, I'll take another shot at
him.

MATT: All right.

TALIESIN: I'm going to make this a fire shot. And
I'm going to try to get him to drop him now.

MATT: Okay.

TALIESIN: 16?

MATT: 16, okay. That hits.

TALIESIN: All right, let me just make sure I'm
doing this right. Yeah, no damage

but he drops him.

MATT: Okay. Captain tumbles forward out of its
grasp onto the side. He's prone, but

he's no longer in the talons of the wyvern.

TALIESIN: All right, and then I'm going to spend
the rest of my move getting up, getting situated,

and then moving a little bit, where's my--

MATT: Yeah, you have 15 more feet of movement when
you get up from-- Well actually, you weren't

knocked prone, you just slammed into the wall, so
you're fine.

TALIESIN: Yeah, I'm going to move a little bit
further up the--

MATT: Here?

TALIESIN: Yeah, like right about there.

MATT: Okay.

LIAM: We just hit 4,000?

MATT: Are you serious?

MARISHA: We hit 4,000!

LAURA: Oh my gosh.

MARISHA: Rap video.

MATT: You did this. You did this, Zac.

ZAC: I'm not happy about it.

(laughter)

MATT: You guys are ridiculous.

TALIESIN: Are you proud of yourself?

ZAC: No.

MATT: The Snugglelord outfit you're wearing tells
me otherwise.

TALIESIN: You look proud and majestic.

MATT: All right, no worries. So Percy, well done,
that's your turn. Scanlan, you're up.

SAM: Scanlan's going to take a few steps
forward--

MATT: You still have your hand up, by the way.
It's over in this area. You just took it and

twisted him, so you can manage to--

SAM: But he got out of it.

MATT: Yeah.

SAM: So I could... I'm going to leave it be. Oh
wait, I still have my hand out? And it's over there?

MATT: Well, I mean, your hand is over here where
you grabbed it earlier.

SAM: Can I move it to the other guy near the
ballista?

MATT: Over here?

SAM: Yeah.

MATT: Yeah.

SAM: Is that going to be my move, or do I also get
to use the hand?

MATT: No, that's just part of your action, so if
you wanted to use the hand you could--

SAM: Okay, I move it near the ballista guy and I
just go, boop. Push him over the edge.

MATT: All right. Go ahead and make a roll and add
five to it.

SAM: It's through the--ooh. Not good, not good.

TALIESIN: Inspire yourself.

SAM: 14.

MATT: 14. As the creature's slammed into the wall,
the elf that's wrapped up currently is trying to

get ready. It starts preparing itself to do a
series of attacks, and your Bigby's Hand just

blindsides it, sending it over the edge of
the railing--

SAM: Oh, it worked!

MATT: Does not catch the railing. These guys, I
don't think they knew who was on that ship.

(falling scream) Gets flung off the edge, unable
to catch, and vanishes over the side of the ship.

MARISHA: No, Wilhelm!

SAM: And then-- I'm going to move towards the
captain.

MATT: All right.

SAM: And-- Vax, are you in dire straits?
Physically?

LIAM: (strained) Yes.

SAM: Okay, then I'm going to throw some healing at
Vax with my Healing Word bonus action.

MATT: Yeah, you can get him in the range. Just
barely.

SAM: Healing Word of the day is, Heal!

(laughter)

MATT: All right, so go ahead and roll for him,
it's 1d4 plus five I believe.

MARISHA: It's like a word of the day calendar,
Healing Word of the day.

SAM: You got healed seven points, New Jersey.

MATT: Awesome.

LIAM: Ze goggles do nothing.

MATT: Ending Scanlan's turn. That was a rough
round for them. Pike, you're up.

LAURA: Come on, Pike.

ASHLEY: Okay.

MATT: No, it's concentration. Once you do Bigby's
Hand, you have it for as long as you concentrate.

ASHLEY: So.

MATT: Yes.

ASHLEY: I would like to try to create a Spiritual
Weapon.

MATT: All right.

ASHLEY: Kind of in the vein of--

MATT: You're a war cleric, now.

ASHLEY: -- Yondu's little arrow he would whistle
at.

MATT: Okay.

ASHLEY: But like a really big spear, like a big
version of that.

MATT: Okay, so what you do is you glance over at
the bolts that are set up as part of the

ballistae, and use that as a point of inspiration.
You cast Spiritual Weapon and you can see, from

the holy symbol, it glows at your chest and out of
it this giant piercing bolt just seems to appear

out of divine energy. Lifts itself aloft next to
you, just hovering in the air.

ASHLEY: All right, so I want to pierce it through
that guy.

MATT: This guy?

ASHLEY: Yeah.

MATT: So as you see it there, you bring your hand
up and then make a flinging motion. It spins,

rotates, and then rockets off in the direction of
this wyvern. Go ahead and roll an attack with your

spell modifier.

LIAM: Kill kill kill kill kill.

ASHLEY: 18.

MATT: 18 definitely hits. All right, so for the
bolt's damage in the speed of this, and given the

flight, I would say roll 2d6 plus five damage.

LIAM: (sings)

ASHLEY: Seven.

MATT: Total seven? All right. Aw.

LAURA: All of those dice are bad. You need all-new
dice.

ASHLEY: I know, I mean, because of how heavy it
is-- but wait, I want to do it at a higher level.

MATT: Okay, what higher level do you want to
do it?

ASHLEY: I was thinking of doing it at a level
four.

MATT: All right.

ASHLEY: And I know that does 1d8, but then was it
just 1d6 because--

MATT: It was 2d6-- well what does the damage say
on there normally?

ASHLEY: One more time?

MATT: What's the damage it says on there.

ASHLEY: Spell using a slot of third level or
higher, the damage increases by 1d8 for every two

slot levels above 2nd.

MATT: And what level is it normally?

LAURA: Three.

ASHLEY: It's a three. Or no, it's a two.

MATT: It's a two, so you're casting it at fourth
level.

ASHLEY: Yeah.

MATT: Which means you roll an additional 1d8.

LAURA: Don't roll that. Roll one of these.

LAURA: Yeah!

MATT: What's that?

ASHLEY: Okay, so it would be 15 total.

MATT: 15 total, nice.

ASHLEY: But then would the, since, so then would I
roll the d8 instead of the sixes

for that last one?

MATT: I would say given the fact that it's a
ranged bolt, it would be-- is it normally just 1d8

for the damage it deals?

ASHLEY: Yeah.

MATT: I made it 2d6 because it's a larger weapon
and you're using it as a bolt.

ASHLEY: All right, I understand.

MATT: So it did more damage circumstantially than
it normally would.

ASHLEY: Okay.

MATT: You're fine. All right, so that ends Pike's
turn. Brings us up to the top. Vex. You're like on

the side right now. You're in theory prone on the
side of the ship but you're not falling.

LAURA: Oh, so I can't attack? If I get up and
out.

MATT: Well no, you use half your movement to get
back onto the ship.

LAURA: Okay. I'm going to like brace my foot on
Grog's shoulder and climb up.

MARISHA: Nice.

MATT: All right. So she uses you as a footstool
and flips over, lands on top of the ship,

totally fine.

LAURA: Awesome. Can I shoot my grappling arrow at
this bastard here at the end of the ship? Is that

far enough? Is that close enough?

MATT: Yeah, yeah.

LAURA: All right, I want to shoot it at the rider,
I want to shoot the grappling arrow at the rider.

And I'll catch him and bring him in.

MATT: All right. So you reach in and there's--

LAURA: Oh, cast Hunter's Mark on him first,
though.

MATT: So you move it over.

LAURA: Yeah, that fucking, yeah.

MATT: It's there, Hunter's Mark is there, we're
fine.

LAURA: Yeah, it's on it, yay.

MATT: All right. Go ahead and roll for the attack
as you pull back the grappling arrow.

LAURA: Oh god, okay. So nervous.

TALIESIN: I'm counting on you.

ORION: Hit it!

LAURA: Yes. 26.

MATT: 26 definitely hits.

LAURA: Okay. So how do I do it?

MATT: All right. So roll damage.

LAURA: Okay.

MATT: It's actually-- for the grappling arrow it's
going to be 1d6 damage for it. It's not quite as

designed to pierce more than it's more of a
bludgeoning hit. Plus your--

LAURA: Plus my regular?

MATT: Yeah.

LAURA: 13.

MATT: So 13 damage to the rider, all right.

LAURA: Plus six for the Hunter's Mark. One.

MATT: All right.

LAURA: And then I've got him grappled?

MATT: And so as the arrow hits, it pierces the
shoulder for a second, it causes it to push off

the shoulder as it retracts behind it. You pull
back and it catches the shoulder. You're yanking?

LAURA: Yeah, for my second action I want to pull
him off.

MATT: All right, go ahead and make an athletics
check.

LAURA: Okay.

MARISHA: Nice!

TALIESIN: Yes!

MARISHA: Tug-of-war.

TALIESIN: Batman.

MARISHA: Batman.

SAM: You've got inspiration.

LAURA: Oh, well, okay. 16. Should I use my
inspiration? Yeah?

TRAVIS: Do it!

MARISHA: Do it!

LAURA: Okay, so that's 23.

MATT: 23. So using the inspiration that Scanlan
had given you, you grab the arrow and yank with

all your might. The tiny halfling form on there
clutches for dear life onto the harness that is on

top of this wyvern, but it's not enough as its
fingers are pulled from its grip and it's yanked

off the front, toppling ass over teakettle,
landing prone on the ground next to the captain

that it attempted to fling from the side of the
ship.

LAURA: Yes!

MATT: Grappling hook partially embedded in the
back of its shoulder blade.

TRAVIS: Outstanding.

ASHLEY: Yeah!

LAURA: I'm still holding the rope-- holding on.

MATT: You are, yes. All right.

LAURA: That's my whole action, right? That's
everything I can do?

MATT: That would be your action, yeah. That whole
process.

LAURA: Okay.

SAM: (sings) This is the music that plays when
things get really exciting.

MATT: (laughs) All right. This guard comes over
here, returns to his base where he had set up. The

griffon is right there in front of him. He gets
the bolt that's been set up there, aims it up, and

is going to fire almost point-blank into the
griffon as it turns around.

SAM: And he misses.

MARISHA: Come on.

MATT: That's a natural 20.

(cheering)

TALIESIN: Way to go, nameless guard!

LAURA: Yeah, go NPC!

MATT: And 2d6, double sixes.

MARISHA: You're a badass, nameless NPC.

MATT: So as the guard turns around and releases
the bolt, the griffon is flying up over the edge

of the ship, getting away from the buffeting winds
of the druid. As it turns around, a bolt just

pierces its chest, the sheer impact sending it
flying backward as it screeches, plummets off the

side of the ship to slowly find itself to its doom
in the watery grave below in the ocean.

LAURA: Next to a tiny rabbit swimming around.

MATT: Next to a tiny rabbit. That griffon took a
bolt to its chest, that is nasty. All right. This

other guard is going to--

LAURA: And the Hunter's Mark is on the little
halfling thing, not the wyvern, just so you know.

MATT: Yes.

LAURA: Oh no, our music went away again.

MARISHA: Is that like the only track we have?

MATT: One track is having problems with
audio, apparently. I'll fix it later.

SAM: Matt, do everything now.

MATT: I know. By the way, we have some great audio
tracks that some fans have sent that I'm going to

be incorporating into our playlist soon.

LAURA: Oh, that's cool!

MATT: So if any of you guys are musicians and you
want to create music for the show, feel free to

send it to us. You know, atmospheric, not too
dynamic, you've heard the types we have on here,

so in that realm, please send it.

SAM: Polka, polka. Lots of polka.

TRAVIS: Slow jams.

LAURA: Slow jams for Scanlan in the boudoir.

LIAM: Ska, we've been getting a lot of ska.

TALIESIN: Dubstep.

MATT: All right. Vax, you're up.

LIAM: I'm having trouble seeing through the fog of
war, a.k.a. my iPad. How close is

that wyvern to me?

MATT: Right there? He is only ten, 11 feet from
you.

LIAM: All right. Okay, so straight up,
dagger-dagger-dagger.

MATT: All right.

LIAM: Do I have advantage?

MATT: No, you do not have advantage. It is
flying.

LIAM: All right, that's 20 on the first with my
keen.

MATT: That hits.

LIAM: Hits. That is ten points of damage. Second
dagger, 25.

MATT: That hits.

LIAM: That is seven points of damage, and my third
dagger, all the way from New Jersey, is a 20.

MATT: That hits.

SAM: Trenton.

LIAM: They were really all ones. That is a ten.

MATT: Ten damage, all right. So as you just manage
to catch yourself on the edge of the ship as it's

listing. From this angle, the wyvern that pushed
off the side is now flapping its wings and

preparing its claws to go for another dive attack.
You reach back and your daggers, which have

returned to your belt, you fling
all three as they spiral through the air. First

one strikes its torso, the second one hits it in
the neck, and as it rears up, looking at you angrily

with its fangs bared like it's now changed its
direction towards you, the final one hits it in

the head. Plummets backward.

LIAM: That's how we do it in Weehawken, New Jersey
motherfucker!

MATT: All right. Vax, do you want to move, are you
good there?

LIAM: I am going to-- no I'm going to jog
backwards towards the-- I can't see. Who's around

the wyvern up at the end of the boat?

TRAVIS: Nobody.

SAM: Scanlan? Oh.

MATT: Nobody over here.

TRAVIS: Nobody's at the front.

LIAM: Nobody at the back?

SAM: The back?

MATT: No, there is--

LAURA: A little halfling dude.

MATT: One of the bandits is still there on the
side of the ship.

LIAM: I have a potion, I'm going to drink it.

MATT: All right, go for it.

MARISHA: Is that bandit hanging on, is that the
deal?

MATT: Technically it's an action to drink it, but
it's fine, I'll let you do it.

LAURA: You're in New Jersey.

LIAM: No no no, I don't want to do that. No, I
definitely don't want to do that. I'm going to run

over by-- I'm going to run back by Keyleth.

MATT: Okay. With Haste, you get there easily.
Keyleth, who is just a buffeting wind cyclone.

MARISHA: Come be protected by my sweet wind gusts,
yo.

MATT: Tiberius, you're up.

ORION: Okay. I take my staff--

MATT: Get up to your feet, yep.

ORION: -- push myself up. I'll-- I don't know,
guys, I don't--

LAURA: Do something to that big wyvern. Get rid of
him.

MATT: The entire ship is right here listing on the
side.

MARISHA: Yeah.

ORION: Get rid of the wyvern?

LIAM: Do something amazing.

LAURA: All we've got are two little bandits after
that.

SAM: Just do the best move you've ever done in
your life.

ORION: Okay. I'm going to-- first I'll do
Telekinesis again to attempt to do what I did the

first time. Nothing fancy because whatever, and
I'll try and rip off the wyvern's wings again from

his body.

MATT: Okay.

ORION: Or one of them, if it's easier.

MATT: All right. Go ahead and make a roll.

TRAVIS: Yeah, one would do it.

MARISHA: True.

ORION: That is 22.

MATT: 22. Okay. Go ahead and roll 3d6 points of
damage. You don't manage to tear the wing off, but

you do manage to pull its flesh, and you can see
you've caused the joint where it's attached now

tearing open, revealing bone and fleshy tissue
beneath.

ORION: That'll be nine, ten.

MARISHA: That's like the most average, that was
like exactly average.

ORION: Yeah. Ten.

MATT: It's tearing open.

ORION: And I see that and I turn to Vax and I go,
I like what you were doing earlier. And I spend

five sorcerer points, I cast Telekinesis again,
and I take out eight of the daggers that are in my

pouch and I hover them around me and then I start
(stabbing noises) towards the wyvern where I see

all the bone shit is.

MARISHA: He's making sushi.

ORION: And I'm hucking my-- back and forth,
bringing them back and forth.

MATT: Just so you're aware, Telekinesis is a
concentration spell, you don't have to keep

recasting it.

ORION: Oh, I don't? It's just going?

MATT: Yeah.

ORION: Oh, well then. Fucking that's what's going
on, and I spend five to do it again.

MATT: Just letting you know. Okay.

ORION: Because can I do that all in one action? Do
that and then with the daggers?

MATT: I mean, no no. To do the daggers you would
have to cast it again, the sorcerer points give

you another action.

ORION: That's okay, so I did it right.

MATT: All right.

ORION: Yeah, so.

MATT: But it wouldn't use another expenditure, yeah.
Normally you can just concentrate each round, do

an action with it, so.

ORION: Got it.

MATT: All right, so you just fling all the daggers
at it?

ORION: Yeah, and I'm pulling them back and forth
through that tear in the wing

which I just caused.

MATT: Okay. I'll say, go ahead and make four spell
attack rolls. So roll a d20, adding your spell

attack modifier.

ORION: Four times?

MATT: Yeah. So whatever your spell attack modifier
is.

ORION: So my attack modifier is, the spell attack
bonus, is that what I want?

MATT: Yeah.

ORION: That's 23, 24, 25, 26. And that's-- what is
that?

SAM: Wait, is it just the d20 plus the modifier?

MATT: Yeah.

SAM: Okay.

ORION: Yeah, and then 18 plus--

SAM: That's 20.

ORION: That's 30, 31, 32. Because I get plus three
on all attacks because of the gear I'm wearing

also. And then seven plus that is 18, 21, and then
that is 15, 17, 18.

LAURA: I have no idea what's happening anymore.

TRAVIS: That's a lot of numbers. Lot of numbers.

ORION: So my spell attack bonus is 11. Plus three
because of all the gear I have on.

ASHLEY: I'm getting a donut.

ORION: On top of those. That goes to my spell
attack bonus. Which is what this is, right?

MATT: Right, well, your bonus is, it's your
proficiency modifier plus your stat modifier,

which is your charisma, which is five, and your
proficiency, which is four. So it would be nine.

ORION: So how do I have-- oh! I'm sorry.

MARISHA: Maybe you were counting this in.

ORION: I'm counting this in. So minus one from all
those totals.

MATT: That's okay, they all still hit. So go ahead
and roll 4d4 plus 20. As each dagger is now being

jammed into the creature's open wound through the
power of your telekinetic force.

ORION: That's-- three, 13, eight? Eight?

MATT: 20, total of 28.

ORION: Okay, yeah, 28.

MATT: Takes plus five to each, so 28 points of
damage. As its wing is being torn apart, the

daggers do streak through, many of which are
missing its form as you're just flinging them all

at it, and then as they go straight past it, you
turn the Telekinesis back and you yank them back

through. As they tear through, you see most of the
wing is torn open and the flesh is now just

exposed to the air, the wind's buffeting it
around. It's looking extremely rough and is

beginning-- it's on the ground currently, but it
looks like it's not going to be able to fly right

now. It is completely incapable of flight with the
way you damaged the wing.

ORION: As I see this, I'm going to just hover all
the daggers over the prone dude and right over his

face to keep him there.

MATT: All right. Grog.

TRAVIS: I pull myself back up on the ship.

MATT: Okay, so that's half your movement, you
still have 20 feet of movement.

TRAVIS: I look up and I see that everyone's got
that wyvern taken care of, and I turn my gaze back

to that little halfling in front of Vex. I'd like
to move to him, please.

MATT: All right. He is ten feet up, so you're
going to have to make a couple-- two athletics

checks to leap up towards him in your rage.

SAM: Two athletics checks.

TRAVIS: Yes! Okay. 23?

MATT: All right, and the second one?

TRAVIS: Yes! Sorry. 19.

MATT: All right. Like a lumbering barbarian, you
get up on the thing and then just Hulk-jump twice,

landing next to it, as--

TRAVIS: Trembling, raging in the face, I reach and
I pick him up by the top of his shirt, give him a

sniff, and fucking chuck him off the side of the
ship.

MATT: All right. Make another athletics check to
try and grapple him.

TRAVIS: Do I get advantage on strength checks when
I'm raging? Advantage on strength checks, strength

saving throws?

MATT: Does it give you bonuses, or advantage on
strength checks?

TRAVIS: Yes, when I rage. It says strength
checks.

MATT: Yeah, you would.

TRAVIS: Okay.

MATT: So yeah, you would have an advantage on
this.

TRAVIS: (laughs) That's even better, that's a 24.

MATT: 24. All right. So as you stand there with
your axe up, you set the axe down, reach out and

grab the halfling, who you see has this scarred
face and it looks really haggard for a halfling.

Its existence is not in the most comfortable
places, especially to be out in the middle of the

ocean like this. You grab it and for a moment its
anger, seething, turns to sudden fear as it looks

over the side.

TRAVIS: You fucked up!

MATT: And just goes plummeting off the side.

LAURA: Oh man.

TALIESIN: Poor life choices, yay!

MARISHA: Why did I get in this line of work?

TRAVIS: Can we interrogate the last one?

LAURA: Yeah, I think we don't attack the last
dude, just kill the wyvern.

TRAVIS: I'm good.

MATT: All right. Keyleth.

MARISHA: So everyone seems-- the only thing that's
left is the wyvern, right?

MATT: Currently.

LAURA: And one little halfling that I've got a
rope on.

MARISHA: Oh, one you've got a rope on? And is the
ship still like ahhh?

MATT: Still listing, yeah.

MARISHA: It's still a little crooked?

MATT: Yeah, it's still on the side, and it's
slowly rotating as there's nobody at the helm.

MARISHA: Okay. I, in my air form, I'm going to fly
over. I'll go through, and I'm going to use just

my air form to lift underneath of the boat and try
and stabilize it.

MATT: Okay. Go ahead and make an athletics check
using the air elemental's strength.

MARISHA: Okay. Use my air dice. Eight.

MATT: Using all the force of your elemental air,
you push and push, but this ship is extremely

heavy, and this side of it, all the weight,
because the two other sides are given essentially

an anti-gravity force from the arcane, all the
weight is being pushed into this one corner.

Outside of a natural 20, you would not be able to
help this at all, unfortunately.

MARISHA: Outside of a natural 20, wow.

LIAM: But maybe!

MATT: You never know, that could have been really
epic! That could've been really epic.

MARISHA: Cool.

SAM: Instead it was just okay.

MARISHA: Well, I learn that the boat's heavy as
shit.

MATT: Yeah you do.

MARISHA: That's what I learned this turn.

TALIESIN: In one of 20 dimensions, you're awesome
right now.

MARISHA: Thanks.

MATT: It's okay. You essentially one-shotted a
wyvern.

LAURA and TRAVIS: Yeah.

MATT: You bunny-one-shotted a wyvern.

MARISHA: Oh, it's okay, I don't need, you know,
comfort.

TRAVIS: Validation?

MATT: I know.

MARISHA: Don't need validation. Save it for
Orion.

MATT: No, I just wanted to bring it up again. I
just wanted to bring it up again, because I think

it's the most ridiculous death to a wyvern ever.

ASHLEY: Death by bunny.

MATT: Okay. This wyvern, looking at the
circumstance, takes off. Tries to fly and can't.

TRAVIS: Oh, it can't fly?

MATT: No, because its wing is messed up from
Tiberius, so it steps around to the only thing it

can reach, which is you, Scanlan.

SAM: That's fine.

MATT: Coming at you with a bite and its stinger
again, because it can't use its claws. That is a--

SAM: And I sing my little Cutting Words song to--

MATT: Okay, against which attack?

SAM: I'm sorry?

MATT: Against which attack?

SAM: Oh, he has two attacks?

MATT: He has a bite and a stinger.

SAM: Against the stinger.

MATT: The bite is a 22 to hit.

SAM: Oh, he hits.

MATT: All right. You take 14 points of piercing
damage.

SAM: Okay.

LIAM: Scanlan!

MATT: Its entire mouth just opens up and clamps
down onto your shoulder and torso. As it's holding

you in place, you try and pull back as its tail
whips towards you. Go ahead and make your roll.

SAM: What do I roll?

MATT: Roll a d10, and that's whatever the attack
is reduced by.

ORION: That's an eight.

MATT: d10.

ORION: That's d10. Yes! That's ten!

SAM: Zero?

MATT: That's ten.

SAM: Ten, okay. Ten.

MATT: All right. So it rolled a 24 to hit.

SAM: That goes down to 14.

MATT: To 14.

SAM: My armor class is 15.

TRAVIS: Yeah, amazing!

ORION: Your armor class is 17.

SAM: I'm also wearing a necklace which makes it
17.

MARISHA: Your armor class is 17.

ORION: Your armor class is 17.

MATT: Oh, snap.

SAM: So I'm okay. From that.

MARISHA: Did you write that down?

SAM: Well I wrote the armor and then there was
apparently some necklace that I forgot about.

ORION: Yeah, he's had a plus two and the armor,
plus three to his AC, which was 14, so that's 17.

LAURA: Seriously?

SAM: Amulet of Natural Armor, I didn't realize. I
can give it--

MARISHA: I know, I don't feel bad about taking the
ring.

MATT: Well, fair enough. So, as it's clamping down
on you, its tail whips in the air-- what words are

you going to throw?

SAM: (sings) And you miss me like the deserts
miss the rain.

MATT: The wyvern, who is still clamped down on
your body, its one eye opens up and goes, you hear

an audible (hruh?). And as its tail swings towards
you, it just hits the ground next to you, slamming

into the wood. Entirely distracted by your sudden
lack of fear and display of beautiful musical

voice. Misses you. That ends its turn. Percy,
you're up.

TALIESIN: All right, I'm taking out the Pepperbox.
I'm going to turn towards it, and just unload.

MATT: All right, go for it.

ORION: Shoot that load, Percy.

LIAM: Finish it.

LAURA: Yes.

MARISHA: Unleash that load.

TALIESIN: Ten.

ORION: Damn it, I wasn't--

MATT: Ten? Total ten?

TALIESIN: Total ten.

MATT: Nope.

LIAM: You're the closer, Percy.

TALIESIN: 22.

LAURA: Yeah.

MATT: That hits. You only get two attacks,
though.

TALIESIN: I'm using my bonus action.

MATT: Oh, you mean you're using your action
surge?

TALIESIN: Using my action surge.

MATT: Okay. So you get four attacks.

TALIESIN: That misses. And then 19.

MATT: That's two hits.

TALIESIN: Yeah, that's two hits. I was also using
my sharpshooter mode for that so that I can do

some extra damage, and that's... Number one,
that's--

LAURA: Kill all the things.

TALIESIN: 20 points of damage plus one point of
ice damage.

MATT: All righty.

SAM: It's the ice damage that's going to do it.

MARISHA: Yeah.

TALIESIN: And the next one is--

SAM: Ooh, cold.

LAURA: Ooh, it's a little chilly.

TALIESIN: 25 points of damage and one point of
fire damage.

MATT: How do you want to do this?

(cheering)

TRAVIS: The closer!

MARISHA: The closer.

TALIESIN: Western-style, I'm just going to--

TRAVIS: Yeah, fan the fucking hammer.

TALIESIN: I'm going to fan the hammer, I'm going
to just tear that wing off.

MATT: So with each successive blast, even the ones
that don't immediately impact, the first blast

hits and explodes across its shoulder
joint, as you see the rest of the flesh that

Tiberius had already weakened gets severed
entirely, the wing flung off the side of the ship

and disappearing in the wind beneath. As it rears
back in pain, the second one hits its side, the

third one strikes it on the other wing, and as it
rears back in pain, its mouth open to the sky in

this screeching death-rattle, the final blast hits
it under the chin, leaving a gaping hole

under its neck as it steps back and then tumbles
off the edge of the ship, vanishing below.

TRAVIS: Attacked the wrong ship.

MARISHA: Wait wait wait. Can I catch it as an air
elemental and bring it back up?

MATT: You are under the ship currently, you see
the wyvern (whoosh) below. You dive for it. Go

ahead and make an athletics check.

TALIESIN: Oh look, everyone, we still have one to
interrogate. Isn't that nice?

MARISHA: 12.

MATT: You try to grab it, but your air form
doesn't have quite, and it just swoops through--

MARISHA: Oh, I'm an air elemental, shit shit
shit.

MATT: -- and disappears towards the ocean below.

MARISHA: Forgot.

MATT: As the captain gets up, the other halfling,
which you can see is dressed in ragged robes, and

has cloth wrapped across its face.

LAURA: I pull the arrow so it wraps up in the
rope.

MATT: The guards are there with
their weapons drawn. You can-- currently there is

still the spear that's jammed in the side that's
sparking, causing the whole ship to list.

MARISHA: Can I try and get that out?

MATT: Yeah, as you swing up you go ahead and
manage to, as your air elemental form, pull the

strange thing off the edge of the ship, at which
point the blue stone comes back online

and the ship rights itself.

LAURA: I thought it was cracked or something.

MATT: Now you know.

LAURA: We need to check on that box. Now.

SAM: Oh yeah, that other wyvern was gone for a
while.

TALIESIN: I'll go check, you interrogate.

TRAVIS: We haven't seen any of them come out of
that room.

MATT: All right. So.

TALIESIN: If they were clever, they didn't leave
the room.

ASHLEY: If these are, like he said, a
distraction...

TALIESIN: I'm going to run down and check the
box.

MATT: This halfling is currently on the side right
now, the one guard holding it. Who's going

downstairs?

TALIESIN: I'm going downstairs.

TRAVIS: And I'll go to the halfling.

ASHLEY: Liam, where are you at?

LAURA: He's in New Jersey.

LIAM: Last time I spoke, I was by Keyleth. I'm
just following her lead.

ASHLEY: Are you okay health-wise?

LIAM: I'm all right. Been better, I've been
worse.

MATT: So you went over to the halfling. What do
you want to do?

TRAVIS: I would like to pick him up, not chuck
him, but pick him up and hold him ever-so-gently

over the side and say, My, my, it does seem like a
long way down. What the fuck are you doing

attacking this ship?

ORION: As he says that, I hover the daggers.

MATT: All right. Roll an intimidation check with
advantage because of Tiberius's--

SAM: Don't worry, if you fail I can intimidate
him.

LAURA: Do you have a beard today? He definitely
has a beard today.

TRAVIS: 16.

MATT: On both rolls?

TRAVIS: 16 on the advantage roll.

MATT: Oh, got you, okay. All right, so the
halfling, which you now look, appears to be

female. The cloth drops from its face. You can see
the teeth are broken and rotted. This is not a

city-going folk. "Please, please don't, just let
me live. Let me live."

TRAVIS: Let you live? Oh!

MATT: "Guh! Stop it, stop it!"

TRAVIS: It was such a hard battle, I'm shaking.

MATT: Starts crying in your grasp.

ORION: If you wish to live, answer our giant
friend who asked you a rather polite question.

MATT: "What was the question again?"

TRAVIS: You know, my hands are so sweaty, I'm
afraid you'll slip if you don't tell me what you

were doing attacking this ship.

MATT: "We live in an island below. We usually just
hit ships that come through this channel, this

"pass. Pirating, if you will. Take money, things
that we can, and run. Usually it's just quick hits

"and go. We couldn't pass up the opportunity. We
managed to acquire a few things to help, and we've

"only harried one other skyship. Once we saw you,
we knew there had to be some sort of riches

"involved."

LAURA: Insight check?

LIAM: 16.

LAURA: 20.

MATT: Extremely scared, extremely honest, in a
mode of trying to stay alive at this point in time.

ASHLEY: So nobody hired you?

MATT: "No, no, haven't been to a city in years. I
told you, we have an island below, it's a cavern

"we live in. We just come up and out to grab what
we can to survive."

LAURA: Captain Damon, what do you propose we do
with this thief-pirate?

MATT: Captain Damon, who's gone back to the ship
to try and get it back on course, is currently

turning it around. "To be perfectly honest, I
usually throw them overboard. But if you see--"

TRAVIS: Drop!

MATT: (screams)

TRAVIS: If you want him, you can catch him. Her.

LAURA: Grog!

TRAVIS: What? The captain said he'd throw him
over.

SAM: Her.

TRAVIS: Her over.

LAURA: It was a girl, it was a poor little girl
halfling.

Oh wait, I still have the grapple arrow.

MATT: You do. As the rope's going (unraveling
rope)--

LAURA: No, I'm still holding on still, so she's
dangling? Can I catch her?

MATT: Currently, yes. As you look over-- actually,
let me--

SAM: Does she have an arrow through her arm?

LAURA: Yeah.

MATT: Yes. In a very painful way she is currently
held by her shoulder blade, which now has--

LAURA: But it was wrapped around her, so maybe it
didn't hurt quite as bad.

MATT: It hurt pretty bad.

LAURA: I pull her up. I look at Grog. Really?

TRAVIS: What he's thinking, I'm doing.

LAURA: Really? I pull her up.

MATT: You pull her up. She's bleeding out and is
looking pretty rough.

LAURA: Oh shit, maybe we should've let her drop.

TRAVIS: Oh, really? I pick her up--

LAURA: No, no. No.

TRAVIS: Put her back down.

LAURA: What, should we put her in a prison cell? I
don't know what to do with her now that we have her.

LIAM: Heal her and put her to work. She's probably
been out of work.

LAURA: What do you think, little one? You want a
real job, maybe brush your teeth?

SAM: She can replace the guard that they killed.

MATT: She's on one knee, going, "Anything."

LAURA: Anything.

MATT: "Anything. Just don't drop me." Looking over
at Grog again. "Don't drop me."

LAURA: Be afraid of him.

MATT: "Don't drop me."

LAURA: Be very afraid. Pike, do you want to heal
her?

ASHLEY: Well. Come here.

ORION: Are we in agreement, we are saving this
one?

MARISHA: I guess so.

SAM: I'm going to go through her pockets, make
sure she's not hiding any weapons to attack us.

MARISHA: To be fair, we did lose one over the
edge, so we might need another crew member.

LAURA: That's true.

ASHLEY: Well, what's your name?

MATT: "Teera."

LAURA: Teera.

ASHLEY: Teera. How old are you?

MATT: "I don't know."

LAURA AND SAM: Oh, that's so sad.

MATT: She looks in her maybe twenties or thirties?
Up close you can see, just a harsh life in the

harsh elements. She looks older than she is, but
there's a youthfulness to her.

LAURA: Her breath is really really bad, maybe you
can heal her teeth while you're at it.

SAM: Teera, empty your pockets. I give her a quick
pat-down to make sure she's not carrying any

daggers or anything.

MATT: There are a few rusty hidden blades and a
coin purse that contains four gold.

SAM: Sweet.

ASHLEY: Four gold.

SAM: I take it.

MATT: All right.

LAURA: You can earn your wage on this ship, if you
behave.

MATT: "All right. All right."

TRAVIS: If you don't. (falling sound)

SAM: He means he'll throw you overboard.

LIAM: You can have a real life here, little one.

LAURA: Yeah.

LIAM: That's your past. This is your future.

MATT: And she slinks over towards the doorways
that lead into the lower part of the deck. As you

guys lead Teera in, the captain has regained
control of the ship, and you guys head in to check

in on the room where the--

TALIESIN: I'm knocking on the door. "All right?
Desona?"

LAURA: Lady Kima?

TALIESIN: Lady Kima? Hello?

MATT: The door opens and they're still sitting in
the back by the box with their weapons at the

ready and Kima looks at the door. "Is everything
all right?"

TALIESIN: Yes, pirates. We've taken care of it.

MATT: "Good." And she's rubbing her head. You can
see there's a little trickle of blood on her head,

apparently when the ship listed, they all slipped
in the room as well.

TRAVIS: Is she hurt?

TALIESIN: Do you need anything, is everything all
right?

MATT: "Ah, it's fine." She reaches up and touches
her head, you can see there's a slight warm glow

of divine energy and the blood flow stops.

TALIESIN: Almost feels like cheating. Okay. As
long as everything is fine, there was no

incidents, nothing unusual?

MATT: "Nothing, nothing, I've kept a very close
watch."

TALIESIN: Excellent. I'll report upstairs, then.

MATT: "Very well."

TALIESIN: Carry on.

ASHLEY: Really, the box is fine? For sure?

TALIESIN: Everybody seemed fine, they said no
events, nothing--

LAURA: This fricking gnat in this fricking room.

MARISHA: I know, it was trolling over here.

ASHLEY: Should we do insight? I don't know.

TALIESIN: Guards in a room, I mean really.

ASHLEY: I know, all right, all right.

TALIESIN: My insight was the box was still there.

ORION: I cast Prestidigitation on the little
halfling and clean her up real quick.

MATT: Okay. As she's going
inside, she watches her form--

LAURA: It feels like little fishes, doesn't it?

MATT: She sounds tickled and scared at the same
time. But the clothing cleans up. It's still

tattered, and she looks a little cleaner. Most of
the dirt's gone, but she still looks weathered,

her skin's darker from a lot of sun.

ORION: I was mainly working on the smell.

MATT: Ah. That's taken care of. She looks to you.
"Thanks."

ORION: A proper bath will be better, but--

LAURA: Is she healed? Did you heal her?

ASHLEY: Yeah. Yeah, I did.

MARISHA: I drop the elemental form.

MATT: All right.

MARISHA: No longer a tornado.

MATT: We'll say as you guys all head back
underneath the ship to go ahead and right

yourselves for the remainder of the journey, we'll
call the game for the evening there.

TRAVIS: Yeah!

LAURA: Wow.

TALIESIN: Welcome back, everybody.

TRAVIS: Great map, man.

LAURA: That's so cool!

TRAVIS: That shit looks awesome.

MARISHA: I know, it's so cool!

MATT: You guys handled that pretty damn well.

TALIESIN: This is way better than E3.

LAURA: He's definitely trying to kill us.

TRAVIS: Only one of us got thrown off the ship,
and she could fly.

MARISHA: I know! It was nice.

MATT: Yeah, they had no idea you were a druid. You
were the closest one to the griffons.

MARISHA: I'm okay, I'm okay.

TRAVIS: Normally that's me, just right off.

TALIESIN: We never liked her anyway, whatever.

[end of game]