MATT: Welcome to tonight's episode of Critical
Role, a show where a bunch of us nerdy-ass voice

actors play Dungeons and Dragons. So sorry for the
tech delay. We had a few technical errors, but

we've pushed through them. Let's go ahead and get
this show on the road. First, with your

announcements.

ZAC: Yeah, three really quick announcements.
Number one is tomorrow we're going to be starting

early for some special programming because you
guys tweeted at us and told us that you wanted us

to, so Erika and Josephine are going to be playing
Tomb Raider at 1PM tomorrow; that's not on our

schedule, but you guys wanted us to do it, and
Amy's going to come out and join them, because

Amy's really excited about the game, too. So,
those wonderful ladies will be playing that at

1:00, and then we have Taliesin joining us for
Group Hug tomorrow.

(cheering)

ZAC: Sure you guys heard Hector yelling at you in
that nice little ad that we had, and the last

announcement that I have is that we will be a
sub-only chat tonight. This is not something

that... we tried holding off as long we possibly
could, but we've had a lot of requests from people

to try it. So we're going to try it out tonight,
see how it goes; if it goes well, we might end up

staying with it. But we really didn't want to,
because we wanted to keep this as open as

possible. But we've been getting a lot of requests
to, so we're going to give it a shot and see how

that goes, and just wanted to let you guys know
that was up.

MATT: Thank you.

ZAC: All I got!

MATT: So I guess the show was a grand experiment
and now tonight's chat room will be a grand

experiment; we'll see how things pan out. So
definitely let us know how that works for you guys

after the show. We'll pass that feedback on or let
Zac know, so... Anyway, welcome to our crazy show.

We have some announcements to give at the top of
this, too. First, well I guess first I could say,

tonight we have a special guest Skyping in from
New York as she finished shooting early. We have

Ashley Johnson will be joining us tonight as
Pike.

(cheering)

MATT: She's almost to scale as Pike right now.
It's fun.

(laughter)

ASHLEY: Yes.

MARISHA: How's the weather in New York?

ASHLEY: Oh, you know, it's just really cold and
rainy, but it's good. It's good. I've missed you

guys so bad.

LAURA: We missed you, Ashley.

MARISHA and LIAM: We missed you, too.

ASHLEY: So much!

(laughter)

MATT: I'm so glad you could join us tonight. You
guys are in for a treat, watching how a dungeon

master incorporates a character suddenly in the
middle of a story.

(laughter)

SAM: Or fails at it.

MATT: Or fails at it; we'll see.

ASHLEY: He told me five minutes ago, and he told
me what was going on, and I was like, "I'm back,

"can I play?" He said, "Yeah you can play. Let me
plan real quick."

MATT: Yeah. So. Appreciate your understanding of
the delay.

LIAM: If you can survive the Extra Life game...

MATT: Yeah, that's true. Maintaining a narrative,
that's the hard part.

MARISHA: Never can forget.

MATT: It's true.

MARISHA: Never forget. The Deck of Many Things.

MATT: The Deck of Many Things ruins everything. Oh
my god. All right, so, next announcement, as part

of our Spotify playlists being put up on the
website. Each person has been creating Spotify

playlists around their character. This week
Keyleth went live on the website.

(cheering)

MATT: Had good feedback on it so far?

MARISHA: Yeah!

TALIESIN: I like it.

MARISHA: Yeah. Go listen to it. It's like what
Laura said last week; it's like weird because it's

kind of like a vulnerable soft spot, but yeah.

TALIESIN: I like it.

MARISHA: Journey songs. Go check them out.

LAURA: Goodness.

TRAVIS: Where do they go to do that? At the Geek
and Sundry website?

MARISHA: Geek and Sundry website.

TALIESIN: Or you can, if you follow Geek and Sundry
on Spotify, you can find all of our Spotify

playlists on there.

MARISHA: Right. But you should go to Geek and
Sundry's website because we each wrote little

descriptions.

LAURA: Thanks, Taliesin.

TALIESIN: I'm here to ruin everything.

MATT: And we've had people spoil themselves.

TALIESIN: Yeah, you should read our
notes. We have liner notes.

MARISHA: And we also each picked out some of our
favorite fan arts that we've gotten.

LAURA: Yeah, we picked those ones out.

MATT: Travis is abandoning us; he had to go.

LAURA: He's done; he's out. Travis is creating his
playlist right now.

MATT: Travis is like, "No!" We lost a Grog, gained
an Ashley. I'm okay with that. All right, cool, so

next up, Wyrmwood has their Critical Role stuff
for you guys who want to buy really awesome, nice

and pricey upper-tier geek stuff.

LAURA: There are some affordable ones. There's
definitely affordable options on there as well.

It's not all pretty expensive.

MARISHA: And it's Christmas coming up, man.

LIAM: It's a wide spectrum. Their website is
Wyrmwood Gaming, and the code that will get you

free shipping on an order is CritRole. CritRole,
all one word.

MATT: Awesome. Couple other things. Also, we
tonight are putting-- we don't have Pike's because

that was a kind of surprise, but we have new art
by our official artist Kit Buss for all the

character portraits we'll be using tonight.

SAM: They're really good.

MARISHA: They're up? They're below us?

LAURA: So you can see them?

MATT: You can see them.

LAURA: I'm so excited! I'm looking down at it
right now.

MATT: Thank you so much Kit.

TALIESIN: I have sideburns!

MARISHA: We look hot.

SAM: Pink and proud.

TALIESIN: I'm a little scruffy. I've seen some
shit.

MARISHA: Yeah, Grog has a beard. Look at Grog and
his beard over there.

LAURA: Grog looks good with a beard.

MARISHA: It's over there.

TALIESIN: It's down and to our left.

MARISHA: Yeah, they have it in order as to what
we're sitting.

LAURA: Oh really? I can't see it.

SAM: Well it's not there, either.

TALIESIN: It's underneath the tables.

LAURA: Oh, right. That's Ashley. What am I doing?

SAM: All screens have our show on them.

MATT: (laughs) Everything. We take over. Great.
Next announcement is for all you waiting for the

Critmas episode; I know that they divided the
recent upload into two different parts, the

Critmas being its own kind of individual upload.
I've been told that goes up tomorrow. So, those of

you who are, "Where has the episode?" It'll be up
there tomorrow for you to watch. And you get to

see all the amazing things that a bunch of fans
made and sent out and all the lovey-dovey awesome

connection stuff that we stayed here until
midnight last week having fun with, so check it

out tomorrow. It's a lot of fun. All right, also,
let's see, reminder we have awesome t-shirts

online like the one that Travis is wearing--
it's been one of those days-- Taliesin is also

wearing it. And the newer one that Laura is
wearing. Those are available. We also have the

keychains and the necklaces, too, so those are
cool; those are up. Games that came out this week?

Fallout 4 came out this week, as I'm sure many of
you are aware.

MARISHA: And we've all been playing it. Foaming at
mouth!

MATT: Exactly.

SAM: Who's in it? Matt, you're in it. Is it just
Matt? Is that it? Who else is in it?

MARISHA: Yeah, who else is in it? Anyone else?

LIAM, LAURA, SAM, and TALIESIN: I'm not in it.

MARISHA: Just Matt?

LAURA: Are you in it?

TRAVIS: I'm the dog.

(laughter)

LIAM: I did enough voices for Fallout: New Vegas.

SAM: Yeah, I was all over New Vegas, as well, so
they cut me out.

MARISHA: We recently found you, though.

MATT: Yeah, in the game.

MARISHA: And what's funny was, his character,
McCreedy, he starts bitching at you for picking up

a lot of junk, which Matt does to me in real life.
Yeah, Matt was like, "Do I really?" And I was

getting it from two fronts. I'm like, "God damn
it."

LAURA: I'm a straight-up hoarder in Fallout.

MARISHA: I'm a hoarder. I need more toy cars. I
don't have enough screws!

LAURA: I need screws!

MARISHA: Screws are fucking hard to come by.

LAURA: Because that's the only way you can upgrade
your guns!

SAM: (shushing noises)

LIAM: This is the entertainment you subscribed
for.

(laughter)

ZAC: I don't have to do this on this show almost
ever, but let's go, guys. Come on.

MATT: So anyway, I play McCreedy and Z-114.

TALIESIN: BlizzCon, oh yeah.

MATT: Oh yeah, I'm getting there.

TALIESIN: Okay, you're getting there.

MATT: Also, a bunch of us went to BlizzCon this
past weekend, which had a lot of fun, fun panels

and stuff, and we met a whole bunch of Critters
that were there as well.

TALIESIN: So many Critters.

MATT: It was really cool. We had kind of an
impromptu signing for a while, and we had a bunch

of very positive conversations with a bunch of you
cool people, so those who came out and said hello:

hello! It was great meeting you all.

MARISHA: Thanks for seeing us.

TALIESIN: Nice to see you.

MATT: We had a good time. It was fun, and Liam was
all over BlizzCon.

LIAM: Yes, I was prom queen at BlizzCon this
year.

MATT: (laughs) It was pretty rad. All right,
couple last things. Oh, today, a few of us went

with other fantastic hosts on our Twitch channel
network to the Children's Hospital of Los Angeles

and handed over our donation from the Extra
Life charity we've been doing for the past month

or so that you guys made happen. It was incredible
to see the outreach everyone put into it, and we

ended up handing over pretty much $115,000 dollars
to the Children's Hospital of Los Angeles.

LAURA: Congratulations, you guys!

MATT: Congratulations, you guys.

It's a wonderful facility.

MARISHA: And the hospital was amazing.

TALIESIN: Yeah.

MARISHA: It's a good hospital.

LIAM: Yeah, it's such a great tour. They have so
many creative things that I've never seen in

hospitals-- I got kids-- or would've thought they
had a room for teenagers; it was cool and had

teenage stuff in it. It was awesome.

MARISHA: Oh yeah; they have a giveaway library,
where they give a book to a kid every day.

TALIESIN: With little toadstools.

LIAM: Give out 32,000 books a year.

MARISHA: Yeah.

LIAM: Not lend, give books to kids.

SAM: That's a lot!

MARISHA: So we're actually going to be talking
about that later, but they apparently have a book

wishlist, so we're going to be getting that from
them and sharing it to you guys because these

people need books.

ASHLEY: Wait, what the heck? How much money?

(laughter)

MATT: $115,000.

ASHLEY: What? I saw the check on my iPad, and I
thought it said 15. I was like, "Wow, that's so

"much money. Holy crap!" There's an extra one in
front of that.

(laughter)

MATT: That's you guys. You guys are incredible.
And last but not least, we have an announcement,

do you guys want to handle this one?

TALIESIN: Oh god. Yeah! I forgot about that!

MARISHA: Yeah, high five! We're high-fiving and no
one knows about what we're high-fiving over. So we

have a fun new announcement for everybody. Aren't
you excited?

SAM: I'm ready to announce it.

MARISHA: You're so ready.

SAM: What is it?

MARISHA: Okay, so, Critical Role is finally
getting a weekly comic strip.

SAM: Is that true?

MARISHA: Yes!

SAM: I'm famous!

MARISHA: Yes!

(laughter)

SAM: I did it!

TALIESIN: You've made it.

SAM: I did it!

MARISHA: We're getting a comic, you guys. It's
starting off as a comic strip. So it is going to

be coming--

SAM: In newspapers everywhere?

MARISHA: In newspapers everywhere online if the
website is named GeekandSundry.com. So,

everywhere. Yes, and so it's going to be starting
next Wednesday. They're going to be releasing

weekly on Wednesdays.

SAM: I love it.

TALIESIN: We've got work to do.

MARISHA: I know.

TALIESIN: I know; it's crazy.

MARISHA: The first run that we're going to do--
they're going to be semi-episodic, I guess, like

loose story line little vignettes.

TALIESIN: Like a comic strip. Like a Doonesbury, so
you get little segments that all lead up into a

larger thing.

MARISHA: And the first storyline is going to be
our Winter's Crest festival. So it'll be thematic.

It will go all the way up until Christmas, and our
first artist is the amazing Wendy Green,

wendydoodles.

(cheering)

MARISHA: So we're going to be switching out
artists as we go through different story arcs, and

Wendy's our first one.

TALIESIN: She's going to be telling the story of
our very first winter festival, which is-- should

we tell them is also mixed with other events in
Critical Role history?

MARISHA: Yes. You'll see

TALIESIN: You'll see. It be fabulous.

TRAVIS: Much to come.

LAURA and MARISHA: Much to come.

MARISHA: But definitely go check that out
because--

SAM: Not yet, though.

MARISHA: Not yet, next week.

LAURA: It's up next week? Holy moly.

MARISHA: Next week. The first one goes out on
Wednesday. So the more people who go and look at

it, the more we may get later.

TALIESIN: Go check it out because the more people
who check it out, the more likely they are to say,

"This deserves to be an entire comic book."

SAM: Big dreams, Taliesin, big dreams.

TALIESIN: With animation and craziness and
hyperlinks and all sorts of things.

MATT: Yeah, we want to make more content for
everyone, so if you like the content, then go look

at the content that shows that we could possibly
do more content.

LIAM: We enjoy doing this.

MARISHA: Yes. We want to see how far this ship
will sail.

MATT: So yeah. I think that's all our
announcements.

ASHLEY: Maybe it'll ship to New York?

(laughter)

ASHLEY: Hey, I had to try.

(laughter)

LIAM: It's so good to have you here.

MATT: I know, I'm so glad you could be here, Ashley.

ASHLEY: Oh yeah, I wish were there in person.

LAURA: Me, too.

ASHLEY: But soon.

MATT: Yep. Have you got your dice and your
character sheets ready?

LIAM: You got your gear, Johnson?

MATT: You ready?

ASHLEY: I got all my gear. I'm so nervous and so
excited. I feel like I don't know how to play

anymore!

TALIESIN: It's like falling off a bicycle; it's
easy.

ASHLEY: Yeah.

MATT: So, with that, let's go ahead and kick back
into the mood of the current venture into

Whitestone.

LAURA: Oh no.

TRAVIS: Make the beat drop.

MATT: Now.

SAM: Okay, here we go.

MATT: The party of Vox Machina, having traveled
across Tal'Dorei to the city of Whitestone to seek

a pair of seemingly vicious and evil individuals
known as Lord and Lady Briarwood, members of the

past that Percy's family fell to oh so many years
ago, leaving what he thought was the sole survivor

to the de Rolo family. Upon coming to Whitestone,
finding its people downtrodden and oppressed by

the Briarwood rule as well as the cutthroats
and mercenaries that they had brought along with

them when they took the city, now given lordship
and plots of land and rule over this entire town.

The word began to spread of possible new rebellion
as you charged through the town, leaving burned

marks, burned houses, and very slaughtered people
in the process. Very bad people. As these murmurs

continue to roll and coalesce, you spoke to a
number of individuals in the city that were

involved in previous failed rebellions and seemed
to build up what may be the last chance for

Whitestone. As part of this information was
revealed that Percy's thought-dead sister

Cassandra still existed within the castle and had
been what people thought the only living de Rolo

and bastion of hope in the city. Now there were
two.

Upon triggering the initiation of this, the party
split, Scanlan Shorthalt running to one of the

nobles while the rest of the party went to the
other to set a diversion at the same time.

(laughs) It may not have worked out as intended,
but it definitely worked, as we had an epic bard

versus goliath rainstorm rooftop showdown. The
rest of the party made their way into Count

Tylieri's home, destroyed his vampiric self, and
got some information out of the guards before

escaping into the town, which has now gone into
chaos.

Many of townsfolk have become the militia that
they've been preparing to be. Armored with

whatever they can find, they've managed to take down a
number of the large, hulking zombie giant

guardians throughout the city. Many lives were
lost in the process, and the battle is ongoing. As

you rushed towards the center of the town to check
in on the Sun Tree, finding all the previous

bodies that resembled members of Vox Machina cut
from its boughs, you saw swarming in towards the

center of the city a large horde of skeletal
undead, clattering forth into the dark.

As the sun has now set over the horizon, the rain
beginning to pour heavily into the center of the

town. There was efforts meant to keep the army at
bay as you all rushed towards the west to escape

the immediate fray, and that was where we left off
last session.

SAM: Shit.

TRAVIS: We fucking run.

LAURA: Are we still running? Are we still running
away?

SAM: We just got to the tree line, right?

MATT: You guys haven't gotten to the tree line
yet, no.

SAM: Oh, Jesus.

TALIESIN: We are still running.

LAURA: We're heading out of town.

TRAVIS: There's a shit-load of skeletons behind
us.

LAURA: Are they right behind us? I'm still riding
Trinket?

MATT: At this time, you are on Trinket. The rest
of you are running through the muddy streets. Your

feet are slick against the ground, and you have to
catch yourself every now and then from not

tumbling forward.

TRAVIS: Dust of Tracelessness?

LAURA: Are the skeletons still behind us? Can we
see them?

MATT: As you glance over, they're just now
starting to pour from the town square itself, and

it was hard to see the exact number, but from your
perspective in the darkened kind of just

post-sunset light, you didn't see the end of it.

TALIESIN: Whoa, triple digits.

MATT: Possibly. From what you can tell in the
middle of the chaos from rushing. There was a zombie

giant behind you that did manage to finish off
some of the villagers before coming after you. In

your haste in escape with the help of a few of you
individuals who managed to tear it down,

slaughtering it as it gave chase through the city
street.

As you guys are now looking behind and seeing this
undead horde pouring into the central road that

you're traveling along, you hear a voice ring out
from the other direction, toward where you guys

are running. For a second, it's hard to make out
what it is, but the voice is suddenly readily

familiar; it says, "There! Run! Aid them!"

And as you guys glance away from the army and back
towards the path where you were traveling, you see

what looks to be about ten armed villagers,
various pieces of armor, some nicer than others,

some have seen some use over time, but
nevertheless serviceable and functional. You see

at the front of them, Brother Yennan. Sorry,
Keeper Yennan is at the front of them armored up,

shield at his side, holding aloft the holy symbol
of Erathis in his hand, and they're all just

running towards you guys (heavy footfalls).

MARISHA: We can't leave.

LAURA: Can I trail behind on Trinket and try to
cast Conjure Barrage at the incoming skeletons?

MATT: You'd probably have to slow down to do that,
because you're a good, like, probably 50, 60 feet

away from them, if not a little further. You guys
are moving faster than them, so, that even the

chase, they're not very quick entities.

LIAM: So we're 50 or 60 feet away from the
skeletons, and how far are we away from the

villagers that are coming in the other direction?

MATT: They're about a hundred feet from you and
closing.

TRAVIS: I would advise bringing them with us
instead of stopping.

LAURA: But all the villagers that aren't in armor
are still in town.

TRAVIS: Shit happens.

MARISHA: I'm running back. I'm going back towards
the skeletons.

LAURA: I was carrying you. You're on Trinket with
me, aren't you? Can he carry both of us?

LIAM: No, I was pulling her by the arm.

MARISHA: I break from Vax's grasp and start
running back

MATT: Go ahead and make-- this is technically
breaking a grapple.

LAURA: I do want to trail back a little on Trinket
and try to cast Conjure Barrage as we're running.

MATT: Okay, so, so Trinket begins to turn around.
You're fighting. It would be either acrobatics or

athletics versus your athletics.

MARISHA: Athletics. Ooh, I rolled an 18.

SAM: Five!

MATT: With that, the slick rain across her forearm
(swish) she squeaks her arm out from your grasp,

and with that moment, you feel her disappear as
she rushes back towards this undead onslaught.

SAM: You never could keep a lady.

(laughter)

LIAM: I immediately pivot around and follow.

TALIESIN: Ditto.

MARISHA: I start conjuring up a 4th-level Flaming
Sphere.

MATT: Keep in mind you still have Call Lightning
coming, so you would be losing the Call Lightning

at this time.

MARISHA: Flaming Sphere.

MATT: Okay. So with that, the darkened clouds that
had gathered begin to slowly disperse as you begin

to focus, running forward. As you are charging,
using the momentum, the air around you begins to

slowly grow and ignite before a ball of flame
bursts into your peripheral, and you can control

it at will.

MARISHA: Okay, how far away is the horde?

MATT: At this point now, they're about 30 feet
away. Since you went right back towards them as

opposed to running away.

LAURA: Am I in front of her?

MATT: You're now, because you gave chase shortly
after she ran off, so you guys are about tandem.

MARISHA: Okay, here's my question. Are they
funneling down one main street? How wide is that

street?

MATT: About 20 feet.

MARISHA: Okay, with my flaming sphere hovering
above me, I'm going to throw up a wall of stone.

LAURA: Okay wait, not before I shoot my Conjure
Barrage, because I said I wanted to fucking do it

before you did that.

MARISHA: Conjure a barrage first.

MATT: All right, so Conjure Barrage.

LAURA: (laughs) Don't fucking block my arrows.

MATT: What, what's the distance on Conjure
Barrage?

LAURA: I think it's a 60-foot cone.

MATT: Okay, then yeah, you can definitely attempt
that. Okay. So, as you create this sphere, and

it's rolling to your side as you begin to
concentrate and look over your shoulder, and you

see Trinket (heavy steps) running up, with just
mud slung as each one of his claws begins digging

into the earth, pulling him forward. (bear roars)
On his back, you see Vex pull out an arrow, pull

back, and concentrate. The arrow itself seems to
split and shatter in her hand, almost like the

wood itself divides into five or six different
shards. As you release the arrow, it bursts into a

funneling cloud of sharp wooden splinters that
fires out from the front of you. What's the DC on

that spell?

LAURA: It would be 15.

MATT: 15 DC, and is that dex?

LAURA: Dexterity, yeah.

MATT: Dexterity. All righty.

LIAM: He's just got to roll for a hundred
skeletons.

LAURA: I know, no problem.

MATT: The ones that are in range would be about 12
at that point.

MARISHA: (scoffs) Only 12.

MATT: Okay. Given the average of rolls there, the
explosion of splinters just shoots outward, just

completely disintegrating the first row of about
five or six of them. About five or six past them

get a bunch of splinter in their bone, their rib
cages shatter open, and they (skeletal gargle) try

and move forward before they collapse in on their
own structure and (clatter) scatter into the mud.

Let's say you destroyed ten of them.

LAURA: Okay.

MATT: You can still see about 50 or 60 slow
pushing towards you at this point in time.

Keyleth.

MARISHA: Okay, I throw up a wall of stone. Am I
near the Sun Tree again?

LAURA: We've left the Sun Tree.

MATT: You guys left the Sun Tree, and you've gone
westward, it would be from your perspective.

Westward across the city, towards the treeline.

SAM: And now we're doubling back.

MATT: You're now doubling back. At this point,
however, the undead horde has filtered into the

town square and is currently between you and the
Sun Tree.

MARISHA: Okay, so what I'm going to do is, I want
to conjure it from underneath me, so as I see them

filtering up, I want to pop it up right from
underneath me to where I'm on top of it.

MATT: Okay, and the width of it's going to cover
the entire street? Okay. (swoosh) The wall of

stone lifts you up at its maximum height. What's
the maximum height of that spell?

TRAVIS: Keep that cast hand feeling firm.

MARISHA: Ten feet.

LAURA: The hand went down, the spell went away.

MARISHA: Ten foot by ten foot panels.

MATT: Can you repeat that? I lost my phone for my
app, so I'm going to use this book here.

So, ten feet?

MARISHA: Ten feet.

MATT: All right so, (whoosh) you're lifted ten
feet up into the air. You can now see, about to

crash into the wall, what looks 70 or so skeletons
just (crashing noise) scraping into it. You guys

can all of a sudden hear through the rainfall in
the distance this scratching of metal shields and

blades and bones scraping at the stone wall, and
(skeletal hissing) hissing and clattering.

MARISHA: So I'm going to take the fire sphere, and
just start funneling it right down and start

cleaning house.

MATT: Okay.

LAURA: Beyond the wall?

MARISHA: Just yeah, right into the thick mess of
them.

MATT: Okay. The flaming sphere begins to move over
the wall. You've done your action, and you begin

to push that forward, because the sphere moving
through you would get to about your space. So next

turn we'll get to that. You guys have caught up to
the wall now. The rest of you have turned around

with her.

SAM: Yeah, I ran for a few more feet, and then I
looked around and no one else was running with me,

so I turned around and restarted running back with
my little gnome legs. (panting)

MATT: Okay. Percy.

TALIESIN: I'm climbing the wall.

LIAM: Climbing the wall.

MATT: Okay. You guys get up on top of the wall.
It's about four or five feet thick; it's a little

precarious, but not too much to really bother you
guys.

You get to the top and you look over and you see
this sea of thrashing about skeletal entities,

some looking fresher than others, and all intent
on trying to find some way-- and you start to see

some of them starting to climb up over each other
to get to the height of the wall.

TALIESIN: I'm just going to hold and anybody who
gets too close-- I'm just going to take a shot at

anything that gets too close.

MATT: Okay.

TRAVIS: Can you see any giants from up there?

TALIESIN: Can I see any giants from up there?

MATT: Make a perception check.

SAM: While he's doing that, I'm yelling at Grog,
"Grog! Throw me up over the wall!

"At least to the top!"

TALIESIN: I rolled a perception of ten.

MATT: The rainfall is too thick. Right now, your
vision is so obscured that even beyond 50, 60 feet

it starts getting a little hard to make out
details.

TRAVIS: Are you sure?

LIAM: I turn back towards the villagers, who are
probably running up at this point and yell, "Fire!

"Bring fire!"

MATT: The Keeper says, "Fire won't help, but I
can."

SAM and LAURA: Oh.

TALIESIN: Whoa.

MATT: "And so can she." As he looks over his
shoulder, you can see the villagers are parting,

and there is, running behind them, this form of a
small humanoid armored entity, but glowing. Her

actual form is comprised of glowing, radiant
energy, like an actual avatar of Sarenrae in the

form of a tiny gnome cleric, just charging through
the rain, each droplet of rain that hits her body

(sizzling) just immediately evaporates on impact,
and she comes charging towards you guys.

TALIESIN: I'm reaching down to help her up on the
top of the wall.

MARISHA: Oh my God. Keyleth thinks she died.
Keyleth thinks she's dead.

LIAM: I'm grabbing Percy's arm and lowering him
down lower because she's short.

MATT: All right, as you guys reach down and she
runs up, Keeper Yennan reaches up and grabs on the

arm as well as she gets up and the two of them
together lift up on top, and as you grab her arm,

it's strange. It's warm to the touch, warmer than
a natural arm, and it doesn't have full physical

essence to it. It's almost like she's partially an
apparition of her physical self. There is

purchase. There is an actual form to it, but it
doesn't feel fully solid.

SAM: She's lost weight!

(laughter)

TALIESIN: You look so thin!

MATT: With that, you lift her up, and she's
lighter than you recall, and almost like a gentle

feather of herself, she (light footfall) lands
onto her toes on the top of the wall.

LIAM: She was light already.

MATT: I know.

LAURA: Pike?!

ASHLEY: Hi!

LAURA: Hi!

MARISHA: Pike, did we die?

ASHLEY: No, you're still alive.

LIAM: How did you get here? What are you doing
here? How did you get here?

ASHLEY: Oh gosh. It's a long story. I don't know
if we can talk about it right now.

(laughter)

ASHLEY: Do we need to fight anything right now?

LAURA: There are lots of skeletons!

MATT: Yeah. As you look down before you, and there
is a horde of skeletons that are right now about

to crush the wall. You see two right now that are
lashing out. One reaches for your leg.

TALIESIN: I'm taking a shot.

MATT: Okay, go for it.

ASHLEY: Let's talk later.

LAURA: Can I have Trinket lift me? Stand up on his
hind legs, and up against the wall

so I can climb up?

TALIESIN: I Percy'd.

SAM: You broke the gun?

MARISHA: No, he critted.

TALIESIN: I didn't Wheaton, come on. I Percy'd.

MATT: All right, go ahead and roll damage.

TALIESIN: That's a 20.

MATT: Whoever sent in that d20.

SAM: It's weighted.

TALIESIN: It must be. Oh, it's hollow! Nine. 15
points of damage.

MATT: With the rocketing (blast) sound, the
Pepperbox fires, and the skeleton in front of you

just explodes into splinters of bone, just...
being scattered amongst the crowd of skeletons

behind it. However, the moment that that one is
gone, another one seems to already be crawling

into its place.

TALIESIN: Whatever you're going to do, do it!
I'm firing again.

MATT: Okay, fire again.

TALIESIN: 24.

MATT: What is it, 24?

TALIESIN: 24. 11 points of damage.

MATT: 11 points of damage? (gunshot) It fires and
blasts off most of the skull on the skeleton, and

you can see its jaw hangs open, but it still
(skeletal hiss).

TALIESIN: Firing one more time at it! That hit.
15, 27. Seven points of damage.

MATT: Okay, that one you clearly destroy the top
of its skull. The rest of it just crumples into

the pile and disperses amongst the chaos. The
horde, though, is now as almost like a wave.

There's so much of it that's pushing up against
the wall and beginning to swell up to reach the

top of the ten-foot wall. The flaming sphere rolls
over the top and slams down into the front of the

group. As it hits and impacts, go ahead and roll
the damage.

MARISHA: I cast it at 4th-level, so it's doing 5d6
right now.

MATT: All righty. And what's the--

MARISHA: They have to make dexterity saving
throws.

MATT: Okay.

MARISHA: Oh, really?!

TALIESIN: Wow.

MATT: One, three, nine, 20. One. I'm doing general
rolls for this. It pushes through ten of them.

Seven of them are destroyed, the bone cinders and
burns, and then crumples into itself. A few of

them manage to push out of the way, kind of
(growls) watching as it rolls past. You can hear

this constant pattering of rain evaporating
against the flaming sphere (sizzling) as it pushes

through, the mud boiling, left in its wake. As
that's happening, you get up to the top. Trinket

pushes you up on the top.

LAURA: Yeah. I want to shoot Lightning Arrow down
into the core of it that I can see, just a big

group of them.

MATT: Okay. Go for it.

LAURA: Okay.

SAM: I want to go up there. Pike's up there!

LAURA: 16?

MATT: 16? 16 definitely hits, yeah.

LAURA: Okay. And then that's-- sorry, 2d8. I can't
add. 4d8. There we go. 19.

MATT: 19 damage?

LAURA: Yeah.

MATT: Okay, so the first one takes full damage,
(impact noise) explodes as the lightning arcs

through the air, the arrow hitting the central
skeleton. You see the light actually burst into

the back of its skull, causing this blueish-green
glow to shoot out of its eyes and mouth as it

explodes and detonates.

LAURA: Everything within ten feet.

MATT: Exactly. Ten feet total? That would be...
wow.

TALIESIN: 16.

MATT: Yeah. (laughs) General saves on this. I'm
rolling for shit.

TALIESIN: Yeah, you are!

MATT: All right, so with that (blast) the shock
wave blasts outward, and you see skeletons being

thrown-- pieces of skeletons. Arms and weapons and
pieces of shield and armor being flung in the air.

As you see 12 of them immediately disintegrate and
explode around it. In that moment, though, the

horde pushes again and fills that gap almost
instantly. You do see the end of it now, at this

point. It looks to be probably a total of 65 left
in this section. Roll a perception check.

LAURA: Aw, that looked like it was going to be
awesome. 11.

MATT: 11? Okay. Don't worry about it.

TRAVIS: I look at Scanlan and I say, go get her,
and I grab Scanlan by the back, and I throw him up

onto the wall.

MATT: All right.

MARISHA: Cheerleader boost.

MATT: That's easy enough for a ten-foot wall, oh,
and for a gnome, so with that, Scanlan leaps up,

and you land next to Pike.

SAM: Hi, baby! It's been so long. Man, you look
good. Aw, man, I'm so distracted by your beauty.

Hey, let's kick some ass together, shall we?

ASHLEY: Kick some ass! Come on, let's go!

MATT: And with that, both Scanlan and Pike, what
do you guys want to do?

SAM: Ladies first.

ASHLEY: Can I jump off of the wall?

MATT: You can.

LAURA: Into the group?!

MATT: You can, yeah.

ASHLEY: Yeah. I can? Okay. I want to try... I want
to see what happens if I cast Turn Undead.

MATT: Or Destroy Undead. You have access to both.

ASHLEY: Oh man. Okay.

MATT: It's a 30-foot radius.

ASHLEY: Let's do it. I want to see it. I want to
see what it does.

MATT: All right, so I need you to go ahead and
make an athletics check to see how far you can

jump, if you don't mind.

ASHLEY: What check was it?

MATT, LAURA, AND TRAVIS: Athletics.

MARISHA: This is going to be so badass. So
badass.

LAURA: Don't jinx it. Don't jinx it.

ASHLEY: What do I roll, again?

MATT: Rolling athletics.

LAURA: A 20 and then add your athletics.

ASHLEY: I rolled a seven.

MATT: (laughs) And what's your athletics?

LIAM: Can I pick her up by the armor and throw
her?

MATT: (laughs) It's a little late for that,
unfortunately. What's your total?

ASHLEY: Okay, hold on.

MATT: Okay, just get in the swing of it, first.

ASHLEY: I'm so sorry, you guys. I roll a 20? And I
rolled a ten. I rolled a ten. Hold on.

MATT: It's all good.

ASHLEY: Natural 20!

LAURA: Oh!

SAM: Hey, what is she rolling, huh?

MARISHA: She accidentally rolled a d10, so she was
re-rolling for a d20,

and she rolled a natural 20.

MATT: That's pretty fantastic.

TALIESIN: Thank you for the translation.

MARISHA: Yes. Oh yay!

MATT: Okay, then. Given that circumstance, you in
this sunny, radiant form, you reach back and leap

into the air, and for a split second you see with
a flash of light, almost like these momentary

feather angel wings, burst out of the shoulders of
Pike that (whoosh) flap once and then disperse

into sparkling feathers that vanish under the
rain. As Pike leaps out, landing 35 feet in the

center of this on top of a skeleton. You slide
down its body as its shield pushes you off to the

ground, and you land on your feet, and as far as
you can tell from your eye-line, all you see are

chattering skulls and blades around you for all
visual perspectives and a little bit of the

skyline above you, a little bit of the clouded
night sky. So Pike, are you going to use your

action to Destroy Undead?

ASHLEY: Yeah!

(laughter)

MATT: Okay. Wow.

MARISHA: Come on, Pike.

LAURA: Oh my gosh.

MATT: What's your spell DC? Be on your spell
page.

ASHLEY: It is 16.

MATT: 16? Good to know. That's wisdom. They're
minus one wisdom.

MARISHA: There's, like, 80 skeletons he has to
roll for.

LAURA: Yeah, he's rolling a gajillion times,
Ashley.

TALIESIN: Roll.

LAURA: Oh, goodness.

ASHLEY: I just keep hearing a thud.

LAURA: Yeah.

MARISHA: Yeah. (laughs)

ASHLEY: Thunk.

LIAM: It's going to be like a knife through
butter.

LAURA: I can't believe he's rolling this many
times.

MARISHA: I know.

(laughter)

MATT: Okay. So, as you see all the skeletons begin
to reach for you, and their blades come pulling

down towards your armor, you curl into a ball,
clutch your holy symbol of Sarenrae, and through

the connection that has allowed you to be here in
this moment, you feel this welling of radiant

energy just burst out from you in this shock wave
of glowing radiant force just (explosion noise)

blast outward. For that entire blast wave radius,
which would be the entirety of this road leading

back for about 60 feet, you end up turning to ash
roughly 36 of these skeletons.

ALL: Whoa!

ASHLEY: What?!

(laughter)

MATT: Just (explosion noise) the rain itself is
disintegrated by the sudden wave of heat, and

there is just a cloud of ash that turns to mud
immediately against the rain and slams against the

nearby buildings, slowly dripping down the sides.
Pieces of metal armor just go slamming to the

ground, rolling (clanking) into piles and piles of
currently unused weapons.

LAURA: Our jaws are just--

LIAM: Yeah.

MATT: As you look up, you can see the remainder of
the horde, which you're looking at probably about

at this point 20 or so skeletons still pushing
forward at this point, just mindlessly rushing

towards the closest thing they can see, which is
this glowing beacon of a gnome in the center of

the street.

LAURA: Oh my god.

MATT: All right, so Scanlan, what do you want to
do?

SAM: By the way, can I just say, that's my
girlfriend who just did that.

(laughter)

SAM: I have to go to her aid. How close are the
skeletons that are approaching her right now?

MATT: They're going to be acting after this, so
they're about 30 feet away from her, so just

outside of the radius of her spell.

SAM: Okay. I'm going to-- she jumped 35 feet out
there?

MATT: She did, yes.

SAM: Can I do that?

MATT: If you want to try.

MARISHA: She rolled a natural 20.

LAURA: She rolled a natural 20.

SAM: Jesus, that was hot.

ASHLEY: I can't believe I rolled a natural 20 on
my first roll.

LAURA: That is amazing.

ASHLEY: So happy, you guys.

SAM: Man.

ASHLEY: It won't happen for the rest of the game.

SAM: Yeah, I'm going to try to jump to her.

(laughter)

MATT: Okay.

ASHLEY: Do it! Do it!

SAM: Got to limber up first, stretch out the
calves.

TALIESIN: This is going to go so poorly.

LIAM: Natural 20 for love.

SAM: For love? Yeah, four.

(laughter)

SAM: Is this acrobatics or athletics?

MATT: It's athletics.

SAM: Ooh, that's a nine.

MATT: The wall itself is slick, and as you push
down, you lose your traction on the front. It

doesn't cause you to fall, per se, but you manage
to get ten feet off the actual wall, landing

(boof) with a thud in the dirt, and Pike still 25
feet away from you.

SAM: Okay, do I still have a move, or is that my
move?

MATT: I'm going to say that's going to be your
move.

SAM: Okay, shit. (laughs) How many are in my line
of sight?

MATT: The 20 or so that are left are currently 55
feet from you and beyond.

SAM: And are they clumped together by any chance?

MATT: They are; they're very clumped together.

SAM: Oh, great.

MATT: All their friends just turned to ash, and
they're now starting to climb over the armor to

find their way towards Pike.

SAM: Okay, then I'm going to cast Lightning Bolt
on them. Will I hit Pike?

Is she in my line of fire?

MATT: Not if you angle it towards the edge.

SAM: I will angle it, then.

(laughter)

MATT: All right.

SAM: Oh, and also, Lightning Bolt comes out of my
body?

MATT: Out of your body in a straight line.

SAM: Can it come from my cock region?

MATT: If you would like to.

SAM: I would like it to just spew forth out of my
gonads, just at them.

LAURA: Of course you do.

SAM: I'm trying to impress Pike! I've got a
lightning dick!

MATT: An arcane display of virility, if ever there
was one. Scanlan does a singular, classic, ancient

technique, the arcane thrust, and with such
(boosh) a bolt of energy goes firing out just

barely arcing around Pike's form and slamming into
a row of skeletons. Go ahead and roll your 8d6,

and what's the DC on your spell? I will say
because you're doing the thrust, you do not get

the cone on this one.

SAM: Oh, well it's not a-- it's 17.

MATT: 17.

LAURA: (laughs) He just put the cone down in a
lower place.

LIAM: There's no 1d6 for cube damage.

(laughter)

MATT: Not for skeletons.

SAM: (counts quietly) No wait, that's 14, 16, 20,
22!

MATT: 22? All right, so the bolt (electric spark)
arcs through and slams into seven of them. What

was the total damage there you said?

SAM: I'm sorry?

MATT: The total damage was?

SAM: 22.

MATT: 22. Okay, yeah. So two of them survive. You
can see their kind of burnt, charred forms, and

one of them's missing an arm now, and the armor
itself is still (electricity noise) arcing little

bits of energy. Five of them, however, just
explode into black, burning bone chips.

LAURA: Bone chips.

MATT: At which point you can now see, bolts of
lightning are (lightning strike) coming down from

the storm in the distance, too, as the
thunderstorm itself is reaching more of a fervored

pace, the rain itself getting harder and harder on
you guys. So, with that, you can see looking over

your shoulder on the other side of this wall
another bit of skeletal horde is starting to come

down one of the nearby intersections, and it's
starting to come around

the other side of you guys.

LAURA: Oh, we're getting trapped.

TRAVIS: Oh, shock. We should have fucking run.

MATT: You do see, however, that the ten villagers
and Keeper Yennan are currently rushing towards

that group to hold them at bay and Keeper looks
back over his shoulder and says, "You! Don't

"worry! We've got this! You do what you must. It
has begun. Finish it!" And goes charging forward,

holding his shield forward, rushing towards the
group of skeletons. The skeletons, however-- you

have to do something at this point.

LIAM: I'm going to hold my turn.

MATT: Hold your turn? Okay. The remaining 13 or so
skeletons use their full movement to get up, only

three of which can actually get into combat range
with Pike, since their speed is only 30. That

radius really messed them up, man.

ASHLEY: Yeah!

MATT: Glad you could make it tonight.

(laughter)

LIAM: Are they closing in on Pike?

MATT: They are, yes.

LIAM: Oh, then I'm going to leap off the wall and
run towards Pike.

MATT: Okay, so you'll get there simultaneously;
you'll be doing your action simultaneously. So,

you run off the wall (running steps) and make it
up, not a problem at all with speed. Pike, as you

see the rest of the skeletons zoning in on you,
Vax suddenly just rushes to your side, daggers at

the ready. Three skeletons are going to take
swipes at Pike. That is a 17? Nope? Oh, it's a

seven. Oh, skeletons. And that is a 12. Yeah.
Two of them try and swipe, and you just knock it

out of the way with your shield. A third one does
hit you in the front of the chest, but the armor

deflects it entirely, and the blade actually sinks
a little bit into your form, but the radiant

energy that holds your position there just pushes
it off, and the blade itself seems to almost dull

from the impact.

TALIESIN: Up yours, Harryhausen!

MATT: You're up.

LIAM: How many skeletons are in range right now?

MATT: Well, the final seven that are currently
there are within range if you wish to attack any

of them. There are three that are currently in
melee with her.

LIAM: I'm going to take my blades and spin around,
pommel out, and I'm going to start punching. I

have no idea if this will do anything. There is a
symbol of Sarenrae sewn into this glove right

here. I'm just going to start-- I don't have the
Boots of Haste on, so I can

just take two swings at--

SAM: Punching?

LIAM: Yeah. Two skeletons. One skeleton. Whatever
skeleton is closest to Pike.

MATT: There's a skeleton right next to both you
and Pike.

LIAM: Yeah, all right. He's getting it in the
dusty jaw.

MATT: Go for it.

LIAM: All right, I have no idea how to do this.
I've never done anything without a dagger. That's

not good. I don't know what to add to this.

LAURA: You still get sneak attack if you're in
back of them.

LIAM: That's true, but I have to hit.

(laughter)

MATT: So, if you're just physically punching, this
is strength-based. So roll a d20. Add your

strength modifier and your proficiency-- although
it's unarmed strike, so I don't know if you're

proficient with unarmed strikes...

LIAM: No, that's fine. so the first one misses
entirely.

MATT: Okay.

LIAM: And the second one is-- oh, this is probably
fine for skeletons. 12, 13, 14.

MATT: What did you roll on the dice?

LIAM: 11.

MATT: Yeah, you hit.

LIAM: Okay, that's the right hand with the
symbol.

MATT: The symbol of Sarenrae, okay. Go ahead and
roll 1d2 plus your strength modifier damage.

LAURA: 1d2? There's no 1d2.

MATT: Roll a d4 and divide it by two.

LIAM: It's a one, so it's a one.

MATT: What's your modifier for strength?

LIAM: Two, so it's a three.

MATT: So you do three points of Vax fist damage
right to the skull (crushing sound).

SAM: She killed 36 of them!

MATT: It hurts at impact, and you feel like the
bone wobbled as the skull (bone ratchety noise)

back towards you.

LIAM: This symbol does nothing for me. I'm here to
soak up damage for you, Pike. Let them hit me in

the face.

TALIESIN: It looks great.

MARISHA: Good craftsmanship.

MATT: But well done, that was a fun round.

LIAM: That was a test. It's better now than
against Sylas Briarwood.

MATT: (laughs) True enough.

TRAVIS: Can I make it around the wall?

MATT: If you want to make an athletics check to
leap up and use that to jump off, you-- mister

athletic movement and high speed.

TRAVIS: 19?

MATT: Rolled a 19?

TRAVIS: 12 and seven.

MATT: I'll say you leap up on the wall, use that
as kind of a stepping point, and jump as far as

you can. You get 20 feet forward beyond the wall
(heavy landing) land with your hammer to your

side, (flames ignite), flames flickering off the
edge of it. You still have-- I'd give you 20 more

feet of movement at this point because you're a
crazy-fast barbarian.

TRAVIS: Can I reach them?

MATT: You'd be able to reach two of them, right on
the other side of Pike.

TRAVIS: "Tee time!" And I rush up with the war
hammer and swing.

MATT: Okay, go for it.

MARISHA: Tea time?

LAURA: Tee time. I was picturing tea; he probably
meant golf.

TRAVIS: Like Happy Gilmore.

TALIESIN: Fist full of crumpets.

TRAVIS: Tea time. That's a 26.

MATT: 26, that definitely hits. Roll for damage on
the first one.

TRAVIS: Okay, I don't know...

TALIESIN: Mister Cobblemitts, I do declare.

SAM: Get your doilies out.

TRAVIS: Okay, 11. 12?

MATT: 12 damage? How much is the war hammer? Of
that? Not the fire damage.

TRAVIS: Oh, just 11.

MATT: 11? Okay. As you smack into it, you can see the
bones themselves are brittle by nature, but the

solid slamming force of a thick piece of honed
metal into the side of this bone-brittle creature

just sends it shattering to the side. You get the
feeling that these entities are particularly

fragile against bludgeoning weapons. So your first
strike just scatters one of the skeletons across

the ground. You have one more in your reach if you
want to go for your second attack.

TRAVIS: Yeah.

MATT: Okay.

TRAVIS: 20.

MATT: 20. Go ahead and roll damage on that one.

TRAVIS: (laughs) 16. 22.

MATT: (explosion noise) The second one just
explodes up into the air. You can see one of its

shields goes flying off and lands on one of the
roofs, almost like Walter White's pizza.

MARISHA: I dodge a femur.

ASHLEY: I give Grog an air-high-five.

MATT: As great weapon master, I believe if you
kill something, you also can use a bonus action to

get a third attack. Outside of your frenzied rage.
So, I mean, nothing's in-- right now in melee range

for you, but if you wanted to throw your hammer,
you could.

TRAVIS: I'm also not raging.

MATT: Correct. I'm saying, as part of great weapon
master, you can not rage, kill something, and then

get a free attack with your weapon.

TRAVIS: Well let's throw some shit, then.

MATT: (laughs) So with the Chain of Returning
attached to your hammer, you go ahead and

(propeller noise) send it swinging towards one of
the further skeletons.

TRAVIS: 25.

MATT: 25 definitely hits. Go ahead and roll
damage.

TRAVIS: Ten... 14.

MATT: 14, doubled due to the bludgeoning
vulnerability on the initial impact. The hammer

slams into its rib cage, causing it to cave
inward. Its entire upper body just falls into

itself as the hammer, not meeting any resistance,
goes beyond and (impact) splotches into the mud.

Go ahead and make your athletics check to try and
pull the hammer back.

LIAM: Like you're attacking ribbon candy.

MATT: Kind of, technically.

TRAVIS: 13.

MATT: 13. You just (sucking noise) pull it out
with a sickening sound (thunk) catch it in the

air, the blood dripping-- the mud dripping off of
it, but you see it burning away as the flames

begin to burst through the actual mud.

LAURA: You're licking the mud off?

TRAVIS: Yeah. Never know a place until you lick
the mud.

MATT: Burns some of the taste buds as the searing
hot edge of of the hammer reaches your tongue.

TRAVIS: (pained noises)

MATT: All right, that ends that round. There are
now currently four skeletons on this side. We'll

say for the sake of brevity, you manage to, in the
next round or so, just destroy them, the flaming

sphere itself can just bash through them. So
you're on two sides of the wall. The rain's

pouring so heavily (lightning crash). There's a
flash in the distance of lightning. I want

everyone to roll perception.

TRAVIS: Now I know what we're looking for.

TALIESIN: Have to have a conversation soon.

MARISHA: Have to have a conversation. Oh, fuck.

SAM: 16.

TRAVIS: Two.

LIAM: 20.

TALIESIN: 17.

LAURA: 19.

MARISHA: One.

MATT: So you got 20? You see in the flash of
lightning in the distance. You can see just barely

on the other side of the town square what looks
like the outline of a giant currently slamming

into something, and out of the corner of your eye,
you see a second one to the south side of the

city. There are still a few of these giant
sentinels out there. They don't look too terribly

close, but they're still on the rampage.

LAURA: Should get out of here.

SAM: Or kill them.

TRAVIS: Or kill them.

LAURA: That's a lot of giants to take on.

SAM: There's two.

LIAM: We need to go kill those giants right now.
We have a holy gnome right now. I don't know how

you came to us Pike. We need to go to them, and
then we need to go to the Briarwoods now. Now.

LAURA: I'm out of spells! We can't go to the
Briarwoods now. I am out of spells.

LIAM: Granted, we're going to the giants now.

MARISHA: I don't think we have a choice.

LIAM: Giants now.

SAM: Giants. Let's go get the giants.

TALIESIN: Yennan! Can you hold until morning?

MATT: As you're shouting this over, he is
currently about 40 feet away right now, slamming

into a front line of skeletons, grabbing his own
holy symbol, and you see another similar burst of

energy to the one that Pike let out earlier.
(explosion) That same dull, bass-y impact sound.

You feel a shudder in the ground beneath you as a
series of more skeletons are immediately

disintegrated in his proximity. Looks over his
shoulder. "Until morning? Why wait until morning?

"We're fighting now!"

TALIESIN: We'll do what we can.

SAM: Hold that thought.

TRAVIS: I'll go.

LIAM: Giants, now.

SAM: Giants, yes.

LAURA: I can shoot an arrow.

LIAM: Better than the Briarwoods plus giants;
let's go get those giants right now.

SAM: Are the two giants together or are they
coming from opposite sides?

LIAM: No, there's one over there, and there's one
off in that direction.

MATT: One to the east, one to the south.

SAM: Let's split the party.

MARISHA: Split the party! I say we do it; fuck it,
let's split the party.

One take east, one take west.

LIAM: All right, weight it more heavily to the
group that does not have Pike.

LAURA: Yeah.

MATT: Okay. Who's taking whom?

SAM: Oh, I'm with Pike.

(laughter)

MARISHA: Spellcasters should split up. I'll go
without-- what did you just say?

LAURA: I said Percy, you, me, and Vax go on one,
and then these three go on another.

ALL: Yes.

TRAVIS: I'll take the gnomes on my shoulders.

(laughter)

LIAM: Ah, it's adorable.

TALIESIN: Give you a big hug.

MATT: All right, so we have Grog and the two
gnomes, and the rest of you?

MARISHA: Hey, we started something; we can't
stop.

MATT: Who's going which direction?

TRAVIS: Grog and the two gnomes will run south.

LIAM: Are they to the south and west?

MATT: Currently to the south and east.

LAURA: Why are we splitting? This is the stupidest!

SAM: Everything we've done in this fight is the
stupidest. Let's go.

MARISHA: Let's go!

SAM: All right, big and smalls are going south.

TALIESIN: We meet to the west!

MARISHA: We'll go east.

TALIESIN: We're going east, but we meet to the
west when we're finished.

TRAVIS: The treeline.

TALIESIN: Listen to your ears.

MARISHA: Although remember, the signal's a little
weak.

TALIESIN: Once we get back to the western wall,
we'll be able to hear each other.

MATT: All right.

TALIESIN: Oh god.

MATT: Grog and gnomes, you guys are going to the
south, all right. As you guys dart off, making

your way around the still very ominous and creepy
Sun Tree to your left, you can see all the various

muddy prints of all the scraping skeletons that
came through here, and in the distance you can

still hear echoing shouts, combat shouts, commands
being sent throughout. There's still very much an

aggressive presence of the resistance in this
city. You have no idea whether or not it's on the

winning or losing side at this moment, but it is
still active. You guys divide at this point.

Starting with you guys. Grog, holding both the
gnomes, and you can feel Pike is lighter than

normal, and you know her weight quite well, as
you're used to putting her up on your shoulders

from growing up with her, and in recent years. But
there's also this strange kind of vibration to her

body, like it's not physically there, but yet it
does feel like there is physical presence.

As you're rushing through the rain, acknowledging
this, you make your way to the bottom of the

square. Charging through, you almost slip at one
point and catch yourself, head past one street, a

second street, and to the left as you glance off,
you can see there is another patch of skeletons

and currently about five villagers that are just
trying to tear through them. You see a couple of

bodies of villagers that have recently been
killed. There's one that's actually still

partially alive on the ground. It's like dragging
itself through the mud in your direction, like

(gasping, grunting) Rain pouring down, there's a
big trail of mud and blood currently behind him as

he's making his way towards you guys. (gasp)
"Help!" What are you doing, Grog?

TRAVIS: Pike, do you want to help him?

ASHLEY: What did you say it was?

LIAM: There's a person wounded, pulling themselves
through the mud, saying, "Help me."

ASHLEY: Yeah, I do. I always want to help
somebody. I don't know; what do you think?

SAM: Yeah, let's do it. Let's help him.

ASHLEY: Okay.

TRAVIS: All right, we stop and let Pike down.

MATT: Okay, so you rush up to this guy. As you get
up to him, you see his face is half-covered in

blood; his side is very heavily wounded. It looks
like he took some sort of a spear wound that then

tore through his midsection. He has been bleeding
out pretty heavily at this point and probably

doesn't have much longer to him. As you bring Pike
down below him, Pike, what are you going to do?

ASHLEY: Okay, I'll Cure Wounds.

MATT: What level?

ASHLEY: I'll do 3rd.

MATT: Okay, so go ahead and roll for that.

SAM: She's the best.

(laughter)

SAM: Look at her, Grog. She's helping an innocent
bystander. She didn't have to!

TRAVIS: Going to step on his throat after she's
done.

SAM: She just is a people person!

MATT: All right, 3d8 plus five.

ASHLEY: (garbled) 23.

TRAVIS: 23?

MATT: 23? Okay, so as you reach forward, he looks
up at you like he's seeing an angel walk towards

him and looks scared. He's like, "No, not yet. Not
yet!" And as you reach forward and touch the sides

of his face with your smile of mercy and
understanding, your warm hands touch the sides of

his head, and the energy of Sarenrae's blessing
pours through his body. You can see the insides of

his armor begin to give this soft glow from where
the wounds are as they close up. You can see the

large gash in his side begin to stitch itself up
magically, and at that point he takes a deep

breath for a second and kind of turns over and is
now in sitting position, breathing heavily,

looking around himself, confused. "You... you're
an angel. A bloody right angel."

ASHLEY: No, I'm not, I--

MATT: He reaches out for you with his hand
forward. "Thank you."

ASHLEY: I help him up.

MATT: He gets up and he still seems sore and
bruised and there's still wounds across his body,

but he's no longer on the path to terminal loss of
his life. He stands up. "Okay. Okay. Thank you."

TRAVIS: Run. Now.

MATT: "Oh, I intend to." And he reaches over in
the mud and finds his sword, wipes it off from the

side, (war cry) turns around and rushes back in to
the rest of his allies.

TRAVIS: I like him!

SAM: He's a good guy.

TRAVIS: I pick Pike back up, put her on my
shoulder, and we keep running.

MATT: Okay, you guys go charging back into the
storm from the south side.

(Skype sound)

ALL: Oh no!

MATT: We've lost Pike!

LAURA: Oh no!

SAM: It's okay, it's okay.

LIAM: Keep telling the story.

MARISHA: Oh god!

MATT: Technology. As you guys continue running
forward, you go past two city streets. The whole

city's dark now, it's closed down in
preparation for what this evening is going to

entail. So you go past these two streets to the
left. Immediately, you hear the familiar sound of

a large, heavy mass slamming into the ground, and
as soon as you turn the corner you can see there

are three people left in this one resistance
brigade. There is a pile of wounded and/or killed

soldiers around its feet, and it looks like it's
been nearly untouched. This one apparently got the

drop on them or at least they weren't fully
prepared for what they were up against, and it's

just swinging this giant club in the air around
towards them. They're all kind of keeping their

distance, not knowing if they should run or keep
fighting. As you just turn around the corner, I

want you guys to roll initiative.

SAM: Initiative, Ashley, initiative.

ASHLEY: Okay. Wait, I cut out right when you said,
was that guy bad?

SAM: No, he was a good guy. You did good, kid.

ASHLEY: Okay.

MARISHA: He picked up a sword and went running
back into battle.

LIAM: Back to the fight.

ASHLEY: Okay, good.

TRAVIS: Boss.

SAM: 16 for me.

TRAVIS: Yes! Me too.

MATT: Fantastic.

SAM: We'll go last.

LIAM: Ooh, he's got houses.

LAURA: Oh, wow. This one is very, very rolly. What
did you get for initiative, Ashley?

ASHLEY: I got a six.

LAURA: Aw.

SAM: She said six?

LAURA: Yeah.

SAM: Aw.

MATT: Should be fine there.

MARISHA: Fine, fuck it.

LIAM: Oh, look at that!

LAURA: Whoa, he's huge! Grog is almost as big as
him. Almost.

MARISHA: You ready for this, Grog?

MATT: She is turned this way right now. They're
all keeping their distance at this point. All

right. So. Initiatives for that. Oh. All right.

LIAM: Blood of the giant, you can do this.

MARISHA: Oh man, I'm so excited.

LAURA: Horrified.

MARISHA: Yeah, me too, a little horrified.

MATT: All right, so. Initiatives are?

SAM AND TRAVIS: 16.

SAM: Six for her.

MATT: All righty.

MARISHA: Does Trinket-- where's Trinket?

LAURA: I'm riding Trinket.

MARISHA: Oh, we're riding Trinket.

LAURA: I'm riding Trinket.

MARISHA: You're riding Trinket, okay.

MATT: All right. Grog and Scanlan, you guys are up
first.

SAM: I'll go first. I'm not going to do much, but
I will take out my Wand of Magic Missiles, because

I've got to use everything I got. And I will
shoot, fuck it, six missiles, I'll use six of the

slots. So it's three plus another five.

MATT: Okay, and how many total do you have on
there?

SAM: Every day it recharges and I rolled and it's
back up to seven.

MATT: Okay, got you. So seven is the max you can
hold for that. Okay. So you're using the last of

yours for this, this is the last.

SAM: I am using six of the seven.

MATT: Okay, got you. Okay. Got you. Then go ahead
and roll for that.

TRAVIS: Put the stank on this guy.

SAM: What do I do? 11. I don't-- what am I adding
to this?

MATT: Well, for Magic Missile, you keep
firing--

MARISHA: It just happens.

MATT: Yeah, you don't have to roll, they all hit
automatically, that's the good thing about Magic

Missile, it just hits. All right, so you create
three darts, so it's 3d4 plus three, and then if

you're casting it at 6th-level, you said?

SAM: Yeah.

MATT: All right. That'll be an additional five
darts. 8d4 plus eight.

SAM: Okay. Three, five, eight, 12. 14, 15, 17. 17
plus eight. 25.

MATT: 25 points of damage to the giant. As you
jump off Grog's shoulder, pull out your wand, it

all of a sudden glows for a second, and from that
point like a swarming anime missile storm, these

unerringly hitting arcane missiles slamming into
the sides of the giant. (growls) You can see bits

of its flesh unfolding and spilling off to the
side, exposing some bone underneath, as all of a

sudden its attention shifts, looking over its
shoulder at the three of you. As it begins to

right itself, preparing being flanked on each
side, a little bit of undead intelligence within

its brain knowing how to defend itself. (growls)

SAM: As my movement, I'm going to-- where am I?

MATT: You're right here, on the side of Grog.

SAM: I'm going to move just in that thing. Where's
the laser?

TALIESIN: Oh, the thingie?

SAM: I don't know. I'm going to move to my left
into that little alcove there.

MATT: Okay, so you're kind of hiding around the
wall of the one of the buildings, and as you dart

to the side, kind of glancing around the corner.

SAM: And I'll sing a song of inspiration for
Grog.

MATT: All righty.

SAM: (sings) Well now Whitestone's got problems,
and now we really can't solve them, unless we make

really deep cuts, so baby show me that Grog
blood!

(laughter)

MATT: Take your d10 inspiration.

TRAVIS: Wow.

MATT: Grog, you're up. Hearing this beat in the
back of your head as Scanlan's

stomping his foot--

TRAVIS: This is my jam!

(laughter)

TRAVIS: I go into a frenzied rage and I rush the
stone giant from behind.

And I take aim at his right--

MATT: You guys are almost in the same position,
there.

TRAVIS: At his right leg, yeah--

MATT: Oh, you're spooning.

TRAVIS: I aim at the back of his right knee.

MATT: Go for it.

TRAVIS: 17?

MATT: That hits.

TRAVIS: Should I roll damage first? Or all three.

MATT: There's no other current combat target, so
you can roll all three, it's fine.

TRAVIS: 26?

MATT: Hits.

TRAVIS: 24, sorry. And 19.

MATT: Hits. He's very slow-moving and a very large
target, he's very easy to hit, thankfully. So as

you rush up, first, what you got?

TRAVIS: 22 for the first one.

MATT: 22, nice.

TRAVIS: 13 for the second one.

MATT: Nice.

TRAVIS: 15 for the third one.

MATT: Nice! (whack) You slam the hammer into the
side of one of its calves. It buckles for a second

and you can see the muscle itself kind of snap and
a piece of bone is now jutting out of the side of

its leg.

TRAVIS: (singing) Now we got Grog's blood.

(laughter)

MATT: With that, you swing the hammer around and
slam it into the bone, actually jamming it deeper

into its leg.

(all yell)

TRAVIS: Yes, yes!

MATT: As you pull back, these slow flames kind of
burning the outside, you can see the flesh

sizzling with the impact of the burning hammer.
Swing it once in your hand, whack! Onto the other

side, this time the actual leg bursts out that
side and it falls almost a little bit, it's sort

of walking on this stump of a leg now, you pretty
much destroyed the bottom half of its middle of

its calf to its foot, it's just slumping over, the
toe's still kind of wiggling on its own. It's now

half on part of its leg as at this point it kind
of rotates in place towards you now, using one

hand to get around as it brings this club up.
Looking up into its face now, as you haven't

really had a close-up on this, it's strange to
see, you see there are similar features, you've

encountered stone giants this up close and this
personal, there is where your brethren, your blood

comes from. However, half of its face is torn off
by some sort of large claw mark. Where there would

be an eye is just this sunken socket and there are
these streaks of dried blood that long before the

rainstorm came are just smeared across the face,
and part of its jaw is broken open and you can see

jagged broken teeth underneath, its tongue lolls out the
side and it just (undead groan) reaches up with

its club to come on down. (laughs) All right, so
the first, it's going to come down and strike you

with this giant club-like piece of heavy wood and
metal. That's a natural 20.

LAURA: His face as he said it.

MATT: That's an 18 plus nine, so it's--

TRAVIS: 27, halved.

MATT: Well no, that's to hit.

TRAVIS: Oh, the hit. Got you.

MATT: All right, so. First strike comes at you for
16 points of bludgeoning damage, halved to eight.

The other one comes to you at 14 points of
bludgeoning damage, halved to seven. It looks

very, very angry and very frustrated with the
current circumstance. But you take each blow to

the chest, showing off that strength you normally
would do to something of your kin and ilk, even

though it's not really living, old habits are hard
to break. Finishing its turn, three resistance

members rush into its side, as it's now turned to
face you with its broken leg. Rushing in, strike

it. Hits, hits, hits. All have short swords out
and they're just stabbing it in the side of its

body now that they have this opening and this
distraction in the current moment. Five, five,

five, which is 21 points of slashing damage.

TRAVIS: Damn.

MATT: From all three of them just stabbing it with
a blade in the side. That ends its turn, bringing

it to the top, Pike, you're up.

LAURA: Go Pike!

ASHLEY: Wait, I rolled a six!

MATT: Yeah. Now it's your turn.

ASHLEY: It's already my turn?

MATT: Yep, everyone else went. It's your turn.

ASHLEY: Okay. So I'm going to Guiding Bolt.

MATT: Okay.

ASHLEY: That guy. Or wait, is anybody-- where are
you at?

SAM: He's right there, but go ahead. Go ahead,
Pike.

ASHLEY: All right.

SAM: Light him up.

MATT: You got this.

LIAM: Friendly fire just turns Grog on.

TRAVIS: Yeah, I'm just getting a warm-up right
now.

MATT: So go ahead and make a ranged spell attack.
Roll a d20 and add your spell attack modifier.

SAM: Most of his damage comes from behind.

ASHLEY: 17.

MATT: Okay, are you casting it at 1st level or a
higher level?

ASHLEY: I'll cast it at a four.

MATT: Okay. All right. And what'd you roll?

TRAVIS: 17.

MATT: 17 definitely hits, so go ahead and roll 7d6
radiant damage.

MARISHA: What?

SAM: Wait, what?

LAURA: How did we not have Pike with us this whole
time?

MATT: 7d6 radiant damage.

TRAVIS: Vaporize this motherfucker. (laughs) Cross
the streams!

(laughter)

SAM: Oh no, Grog, that means you're going to get
that much damage.

TRAVIS: But I'm a good person.

MARISHA: Yeah, it's radiant, it should do more
against him.

MATT: Actually, this is a single-target spell,
there's no radius to this.

MARISHA: Single attack. All right.

MATT: What's your total damage?

ASHLEY: 24.

MATT: 24 points of radiant damage.

ASHLEY: Yes.

MATT: Okay. So as you stand there for a second,
you pull your holy symbol up, kind of putting your

shield to the side, and as you release your hand
out in front of you, this beam of divine energy

streaks out, slamming into the zombie giant. As it
hits, it continues to burn like a stream into its

body, searing the flesh in a path as it does. As
it impacts, it leaves this glowing, pulsing divine

symbol across its chest of Sarenrae. The next
attack against it has advantage.

SAM: From Pike or from everybody?

MATT: No, the next person to attack it gets
advantage.

TRAVIS: Did I take any damage?

MATT: No, no, she was very precise with her impact
on the giant. All right, do you want to move on

your turn at all, Pike? Stay where you are, or do
you want to move close to it?

ASHLEY: Where am I, sorry?

LAURA: Oh, can you not see? You're far away.

ASHLEY: I can't see very well. I'll stay.

MATT: Okay, you'll stay where you are. Okay, you
keep your distance from it, let Grog do his thing.

Okay, that brings us to the top of the round.
Grog, Scanlan, you guys are up again.

TRAVIS: Would you like to go?

SAM: Next attack has advantage, I defer to you.
I'll hold my roll.

TRAVIS: Sweet. If he's starting to lean down, I
want to take his head and turn it

into a tee-ball target.

MATT: (laughs) Okay.

MARISHA: Don't forget about your weapon master
thing.

TRAVIS: Yeah, but then he gets advantage.

MATT: The thing is, you can use the minus five to
hit plus ten to damage.

MARISHA: Yeah, that one.

MATT: It's what he's been doing.

TRAVIS: I didn't do it on the last one. Let's do
it! Why not? Okay. We'll do great weapon master.

We'll use it on that one.

SAM: Oh, you have advantage too.

LAURA: Yeah, you have advantage.

TRAVIS: That's even worse.

MATT: There you go.

LAURA: No, that was better.

TRAVIS: 16?

MATT: 16 hits.

TRAVIS: Oh good, okay.

MATT: Once again, big target, not very hard to
hit, just has a lot of hit points.

TRAVIS: 16 again.

MATT: 16 also hits.

TRAVIS: That'll work. 26.

MATT: All right. All three hit.

TALIESIN: Kill it with fire.

TRAVIS: Kill it with fire. Sorry. Ten, 11, 21--

LAURA: Plus another ten for great weapon--

TRAVIS: I did it, yeah. That was 11 plus ten.

MATT: Okay.

TRAVIS: 15, so 25.

MATT: 25, all righty.

LIAM: Can these actors do addition?

MARISHA: I know. (laughs)

TRAVIS: 18, 23, 33.

MATT: 33 points of damage.

MARISHA: Holy shit. Nice!

MATT: All right. So as you swing the hammer
upward, (whack) it hits along the side of its

skull and you can see its skull
actually cave in and crack a bit, bone and flesh

scraped away. Where it cracks, you can see a bit
of black brain mass begin to leak through. Using

that, you spin the hammer around and hit it again
the same place, (whack) finding the weak point,

this time. Just the anger to smash through.
(impact sound) It caves inward, and you can see

bits of bone jam into its one semi-functioning
eye. Its head now loosely pushed in on one side.

The jaw hangs a little bit loose. The third
strike, you come down, (whack) hit it from the

other side. The jaw dislodges and goes flying
off.

TRAVIS: Dibs!

(laughter)

MATT: But it's still standing.

LAURA: Without a head?!

MATT: His head's still there. His jaw is
dislodged. The lower half of his jaw is missing.

It's just this open part. His tongue dangling
loosely out of the bottom. Part of its head caved

inward, just (deep zombie groan).

TRAVIS: Shove my hand up your skull and work you
like a sock puppet!

(laughter)

MATT: Are you going to stay where you are, Grog?

TRAVIS: Yeah.

MATT: All right. Scanlan, you're up.

SAM: How far can I move?

MATT: You can move 25 feet, so five squares.

SAM: 25? That's it?

MATT: You're a little gnome, dude. You have little
legs.

SAM: Can I get next to Grog? Can I get near Grog?
Can I get at an angle where I won't hit Grog with

lightning?

MATT: You can, but at pretty much every angle,
you're going to hit somebody

aside from the giant.

SAM: Oh, I don't care about those guys.

(laughter)

SAM: I guess I should. Pike's with me. I've got to
do this right. Damn it! (groans) If only you

weren't here, Pike. Pike, don't look!

MATT: What are you doing?

LIAM: You shoot it at an angle up at his head. Up
into the sky.

SAM: All right. I will try to hit him with a
Lightning Bolt, but miss as many people as

possible.

MATT: He's tall. He's down a little bit because of
the impact that Grog gave, but at a higher angle,

you could probably hit him without hitting the
other guy.

SAM: Okay. I will angle up. This time, I would
like the lightning to come from my ass.

MATT: You're William Wallace-ing it.

SAM: Yes. And I'll just lightning him at normal
lightning damage.

MATT: All right, so 8d6 damage. Does not make its
saving throw with a three.

LAURA: How can you even aim like that, Scanlan?

SAM: Oh, I have practiced aiming things with my
ass in this campaign.

MATT: Very true. Sadly.

SAM: (counts quietly) 28.

MATT: 28 points of damage. All right. (lightning
crash) The bolt of lightning shoots off into the

sky, arcing through its body. You can see where
part of its neck muscle was torn, it fuses into

its shoulder from the impact of the bolt. (moans)
Almost falls over from the blast. However, it

catches itself and (grunts) gets right back up.
It's looking pretty rough, but it's still keeping

itself there, yeah.

SAM: What? I just farted lightning on him!

MATT: That ends your turn?

SAM: I'll inspire Pike. I'll turn to her and I'll
say, (sings) I wish they all could be cleric

gnomian girls.

(laughter)

MATT: All right, Pike. You get a d10 inspiration
dice from Scanlan, a voice you've longed to hear

for some time, as your friendship has been so far
away. Take your 1d10.

LAURA: Hear that, Scanlan? Friendship.

SAM: Friendship? Aw, man.

MATT: All right, so on the zombie giant's turn, it
recovers from the bolt of lightning, looking at

this large target in front of it, it sees this
tiny little morsel and you see it brings up its

leg that's partially destroyed and (heavy
footsteps) begins to move forward just to there,

to get you within range. It's going to move a
little closer. It gets two attacks of opportunity

from the guards behind it.

SAM: Two?

TALIESIN: I was about to say, the guard is there.

LAURA: Against it. Against it.

MATT: That somehow actually misses with a two.
That does hit, though, so it takes-- oh, nice--

eight points of slashing damage from one of the
guards that, as it runs by, just swings out and

slashes across its thigh. As it comes up towards
you, it (zombie groan), its tongue dangling out,

this horrible gurgling sound coming out of what is
now technically its open throat. As it brings its

club upward--

SAM: As my reaction, I bring up my shawm-- it's a
horn-- and I blow the note. The note is like Dumb

and Dumber, the sound he makes? (off-key horn
noise) That most annoying sound. (off-key horn

noise) And mash all my fingers down.

MATT: Okay. Is this your--

SAM: This is my trying to-- Cutting Words!

MATT: Cutting Words? Okay. All right, well it
rolled a 21 to hit. For Cutting Words, you roll a

d10 and subtract that from the attack roll,
right?

SAM: What is this?

TALIESIN AND MARISHA: That is a ten.

MARISHA: Big money, no whammies.

SAM: One.

MARISHA: Fuck!

(laughter)

MATT: So, 20. Does that hit?

SAM: That hits.

MATT: All right, so (off-key horn noise, ping).

(laughter)

MATT: (laughing) Horrible shrieking sound.

SAM: Oh, my shawm!

MATT: You take 20 points of bludgeoning damage
from the first strike and your shawm is bent and

(weak horn noise) not quite-- you'll probably have
to buy a new one or get that repaired. You almost

lost a tooth in the process. As you're like,
(groans) from the impact, you pull back and you

can feel already, the pulsing of the blood from
the veins that have burst. It brings up its club

one more time. (roars)

SAM: Oh, god.

MATT: That is going to be a 13.

SAM: That misses!

(laughter)

MATT: This time as it brings its club up, you see
the arc, and you--

SAM: I'm ducking down to work on the shawm.

(laughter)

MATT: (whoosh) The swing is completely out of your
view.

(laughter)

MATT: All right, that ends its turn. The guards
are going to rush forward, now. They technically

have advantage on it because they're flanking with
you. A two and a three. Guys, you're killing me.

Four and a six. The six actually still hits. Six
and a 20. There we go. And a critical, so miss and

then a hit and a critical.

TRAVIS: Nice natural 20.

MATT: So that's seven points of slashing damage
from the first one, and then the critical. Ooh,

nice. And a six on that one, so that's 12, 14
points of slashing damage from the other guy. So

both of the guards rush up. One of them misses
entirely. One jams the blade to the hilt in the

middle of its body and pulls out. The last one
actually jumps up onto its back and takes the

sword and slams it into its spine and drags it
down. A really decent wound for anything not this

big. On this size, it's a little gash, still, but
it left a nice sizable wound and it opens up and

this horrible smell comes reeking out. The guy
almost vomits as he backs up, just (groans). The

rot escaping from the wound. That ends their turn.
Pike, you're up.

TRAVIS: Put some hurt on this undead bastard.

ASHLEY: Okay. Where are you at, Scanlan?

SAM: You mean physically or mentally? Because I'm
in love with you.

(laughter)

SAM: But I'm right next to Grog. Grog and I are
right in front of the giant.

ASHLEY: Health-wise, where are you at?

SAM: Oh, I'm fine. Don't worry about me, baby.

ASHLEY: Okay, so I'm going to go up to the giant,
where the open wound is, where that guy just broke

it open. I have Sprinter's Boots, if I can't get
all the way up to it.

MATT: Yeah, you'll have to use those to get up to
him.

ASHLEY: Okay, I'll use Sprinter's Boots.

MATT: All right.

ASHLEY: I'm going to use my mace, and I'm going to
start ripping where that wound is.

MATT: Actually, the open wound would be around
here, but with Sprinter's Boots you can get there

just fine, yeah. So you actually get around. All
right, and you're technically flanking with Grog,

so you have advantage on these attacks.

MARISHA: Nice.

MATT: So go for it.

ASHLEY: Okay, so I roll--

MATT: Roll to attack twice and take the higher of
the two. I know you've been filming for a while.

ASHLEY: Roll the d20 twice?

LIAM: Roll two times, take the higher of the two.

ASHLEY: 17.

MATT: Okay, that's the higher of the two?

ASHLEY: That's the higher of the two. I had a
seven and a 17.

MATT: Yeah, that definitely hits. Roll for the
second attack because you can use your bonus

action to strike because you're a war cleric.

ASHLEY: Nine.

MATT: A total of nine?

LAURA: Did you add it to anything?

ASHLEY: Wait, am I supposed to add something?

MATT: Add your attack bonus. Next to your weapon
on your character sheet.

ASHLEY: Shit. Sorry, guys!

MATT: It's okay! You're out of practice, girl.
It's all good. You've been too busy being in

someone's Blindspot.

LAURA: You're busy being in the lab.

ASHLEY: Oh, 17 again!

MATT: 17 again. There you go. Both hit. Go ahead
and roll the damage for the mace plus,

if I recall...

ASHLEY: I think it's 1d6 plus three. Plus seven if
it's an attack hit.

MATT: 1d6 plus three, yep. You also have a Mace of
Disruption, don't you?

LIAM: Disruption. I think so, yeah.

MATT: What was the effect on that one? Do you have
the item with you?

ASHLEY: I do. Shit. No, I don't have the papers.

SAM: Stolen on the subway on the way home from
work.

ASHLEY: Guys, someone took it from me.

MATT: You also add an additional 1d8 damage to the
first strike.

LIAM: 2d6 radiant damage. DC 15 wisdom save.

MATT: It's not going to make that. It didn't make
that.

(laughter)

LIAM: It's now frightened of Pike until the end of
her next turn.

SAM: Ooh.

MATT: Awesome. All right, so you're rolling 1d6
plus three, plus another 1d8, and how much did you

say for that?

LIAM: 2d6 radiant damage.

MATT: Okay. So 3d6 plus three, and then an
additional 1d8 for each strike.

SAM: Wait, what?

ASHLEY: Wait, so one more time?

SAM: Why is she so goddamn powerful?

MATT: Undead, man.

LIAM: Cleric vs undead.

ASHLEY: You said 3d6?

MATT: 3d6 plus three, plus an additional 1d8
radiant damage.

MARISHA: For every roll.

MATT: For both attacks, yeah.

MARISHA: For both attacks.

LAURA: Per attack.

ASHLEY: Fuck.

LAURA: This is the best.

ASHLEY: Okay.

MATT: Undead.

LIAM: We needed her from the get-go.

SAM: Matt, while she's rolling, can you describe
her hair at this moment? Is it whipping around? Is

it in her face? Is it covering her eyes in a sexy,
sweaty way?

TALIESIN: Matted with jam.

SAM: He's ignoring me.

ASHLEY: Can I use my d10? An additional d10 from
Scanlan, for the inspiration?

MATT: Not for damage. That was just to hit.

ASHLEY: I'm getting carried away. Okay. 23.

MATT: 23 on the first hit?

ASHLEY: Oh, shit. I forgot the second hit!

MATT: Yeah.

ASHLEY: Sorry!

MARISHA: 23 on the first hit.

ASHLEY: Sorry, guys watching. Sorry.

LIAM: Bring the holy retribution.

MARISHA: They'll understand.

LAURA: Oh, I've missed Pike so much.

MARISHA: Me, too.

ASHLEY: Oh, I've missed you, too.

MARISHA: I like your headphones, too, by the way.

LIAM: Kill, kill, kill.

ASHLEY: 21.

LAURA: Yay!

LIAM: All right, 44.

MATT: All right. The Mace of Disruption actually
has a different effect. It's not about a

frightened thing. If it has 25 hit points or fewer
after taking this damage, it has to make a DC 15

wisdom saving throw, which it fails.

SAM: Which means?

MATT: So, as you rush up along the side of it,
your Sprinter's Boots carrying you, this blur of

divine gnomish energy. You see, through her
somewhat shimmering, radiant form, the hair itself

glistens against the rain. It almost doesn't even
touch. Somehow immaculate in the middle of combat.

You find it slow motion in your head, and for that
brief moment, you remember how much it hurt to see

her go and how happy you are to have her here.
However, you, in the middle of your battle trance,

Pike, rush up, shield ahead. You take the mace
and, seeing the open wound, slam the mace in there

once (wham). As you hit, the actual undead flesh
burns away from the impact, leaving this ashy

swath of missing flesh in its body. The creature
gives out this weird, gurgly bellow (roar). Using

that moment, as it rears back, how do you want to
do this?

(cheering)

MARISHA: She's gone. She ran away. She took her
headphones off and did a lap.

ASHLEY: Okay, I'm back. Oh my gosh.

MATT: The magical power of this is essentially
destroying the creature, so describe this however

you want to, in your radiant cleric form.

ASHLEY: Okay, I want him to just explode with a
radiant glow.

MATT: Okay. As he reaches back, you see this
foothold on its knee as it's trying to keep itself

aloft. You leap up, using your Sprinter's Boots,
onto one of its knees. Jump in the air, dropping

your shield and two hands on your mace, you leap
in the air, slam it downward. As the mace impacts

on the front of its chest, there's this brief
moment of pause as it cracks into its flesh. Its

head looks down at you, and there's a burst of
divine energy as his entire torso (explosion) rips

open. What would be organs within that exposed,
however, are all also turned to ash as the body

(death rattle) dissipates and disintegrates,
falling into a puddle of liquid, messy, muddy ash

and bits and pieces of remaining giant there. As
Pike lands on the ground, 3-point landing, mace in

one hand. Walks over and picks up her shield and
looks over her shoulder at Grog and Scanlan.

SAM: Can I faint?

MATT: Yeah.

(laughter)

SAM: Oh.

TRAVIS: He's always doing that. Welcome back,
Pike.

ASHLEY: (laughs) Oh boy. What the heck?

MATT: The three soldiers who are now there,
looking dumbfounded at this moment, step forward

and-- you look like fighters, except you have this
glowing, divine entity amongst the three of you.

He steps forward. "If I might ask, who are you,
and how did you do that?"

TRAVIS: We're the deliverers of this town. Go.
Spread the word. It all comes down tonight.

MATT: "You're with the de Rolos?"

SAM and LAURA: (quietly) Not tonight!

TRAVIS: Tonight, tomorrow, tit for tat. Whatever.

MATT: You're not there.

LAURA: He is! He's there!

SAM: I'm just waking up. "What? What's going on?"

TRAVIS: It goes down in the next--

SAM: 24 hours.

TRAVIS: Don't put a timeline on it. These things--
it takes a little time.

MATT: "You're with the de Rolos?"

TRAVIS: Aye, with the de Rolos.

MATT: "Then let it be done. Thank you for the
save. We're going to gather our wounded and

"prepare for the next attack."

SAM: Prepare. Wait for our signal. Spread the
word.

MATT: "All right. Men! Come!" And the three of
them rush off. They gather up a few of their

friends who are further down the road, all
groaning and wounded, getting up and putting their

arms over their friends' necks. Gathering the dead
and pulling them off the middle of the road. You

notice as they're pulling them off the road, each
one of their dead friends, they're actually

pulling out torches and lighting fire to their
corpses.

TRAVIS: Yeah, they don't want them to come back.

SAM: Should we loot? Should we loot them, first?
(laughs) That would be in poor taste.

MATT: So what are you guys doing?

TALIESIN: Check the body for secrets.

TRAVIS: Do we want to stay, or do we want to head
back towards the other three?

SAM: We should start heading back. We probably
won't get there in time. Wait, Percy said to meet

in the west.

TRAVIS: That's right. We should head to the west,
to the wall. To the city wall.

SAM: We'll head west to our appointed meeting
spot.

LAURA: Wild, wild west.

MARISHA: Vaguely west.

SAM: As we go, I'm looking at clotheslines for any
sort of beret type of a hat.

(laughter)

MATT: Roll perception.

TRAVIS: Can we roll hit dice at any time during
the day?

MATT: Only during a short rest.

TRAVIS: Got it.

SAM: 13.

MATT: 13. Not in this weather. Not in this city.

SAM: A yarmulke? Anything?

MATT: Nope. Whitestone? Not really a beret kind of
people.

SAM: I'm a little thing. I have a little head.
Maybe it could be just a shoulder pad.

MATT: Like a sock. Sure! There's also no laundry
left out during the middle of a rainstorm.

SAM: All right, fine.

TRAVIS: Maybe they're terribly irresponsible.

MATT: It could be. Unfortunately, at this moment,
no. You are unable to see any sort of a beret or

could-be-fashioned-into-a-beret-type clothing
piece.

TRAVIS: No Dust of Tracelessness this time as we
head to the western wall.

MATT: Oh, Grog's getting bold!

TRAVIS: We're getting bold!

MATT: All right, so as you guys go rushing towards
the western side of the city to meet up with the

rest of the group, the rest of you, rushing past
the center of the town square, you go running

through the rain to the far side. You can now see
the form that you originally saw, Vax. One of

these giants has been pushed back. As you get all
the way to the eastern side, you're actually

outside the city now; you're pushing into the
forest on the outskirts. On the raised hill

amongst this part of the town, just outside the
wall, there is the temple of Pelor in the center

of the large graveyard.

You can see that this zombie giant has been pushed
back. You can just barely see the crest of him

currently slamming some sort of large metallic
weapon around, right over the treeline, as you

approach the outside gate of the graveyard
itself.

LIAM: I'm going stealth.

LAURA: I Hunter's Mark him.

MATT: Okay. What's the range on Hunter's Mark?

LAURA: That's a good question. It doesn't say.

LAURA AND TRAVIS: 90 feet.

MATT: 90 feet. You're probably going to have to
get a little bit closer.

LAURA: Okay, I Hunter's Mark him as soon as I
can.

MATT: Okay, good to know. You guys all going
stealth right now, or are you all rushing in?

LAURA: I'm just going to rush in.

MARISHA: Yeah, let's run. I'm just running.
Keyleth's running.

MATT: Okay. The gates are slammed open; part of
the metal's bent inward, like whatever was pushing

the giant back at this point had slammed through
the gate.

TALIESIN: Hey, Vax?

LIAM: I'm gone, man.

TALIESIN: Oh, you're gone.

LIAM: Well, I rolled a 23. Am I stealthed?

MATT: You feel pretty stealthy.

TALIESIN: You have an earring, though. If he's on
his ass, you have a

better chance of hitting him, correct?

LIAM: Yeah, that sounds good.

TALIESIN: Good to know.

MATT: All right, so as you guys all rush into the
center here, looking about, you can see, this

hefty graveyard that you visited about two days
ago: all of the graves are open. All of them are

excavated and open, and you're starting to see
where they're pulling a lot of these undead from.

TRAVIS: That's just rude.

MATT: However, many of them being armored and
armed means it wasn't a direct transition. They

were probably pulled from here and given
weapons elsewhere. But that's the first thought

that catches your attention as you rush in here.

Rain pouring down, the clapping of thunder in the
distance. You can see, there are six of these

soldiers that are currently hacking away at this
one giant that's being pushed up towards the edge

of the temple right now. It looks like it's
cornered, but it's lashing out like a wild animal.

Roll initiative, folks.

SAM: Initiative, initiative.

MARISHA: Damn it! It's the second one I've rolled
in a row.

TALIESIN: I am a monster. I am a monster!

LAURA: I've got to retire this one for a while.

TRAVIS: You literally are a monster.

TALIESIN: I have really high initiative.

LAURA: Did I already Hunter's Mark him now?

MATT: You can now, yes.

LIAM: And Matt? As we ran, I wanted to split off
from the group and go up along the side.

MATT: Along the side this way? Okay, so you'll be
over here.

LAURA: I leap off Trinket as we get close.

MATT: Oh. (chuckles) All right, so 20 to 25?
Anybody? 20 to 15?

LIAM: 19.

TALIESIN: Oh, I'm sorry. 26.

TRAVIS: "Oh, I'm sorry. 26."

LAURA: "I'm sorry, I wasn't paying attention.
26."

SAM: "Oh, I was reading a book. Sorry."

TRAVIS: Come on, Shadow Turd.

TALIESIN: This is going to be hilarious.

LIAM: That's what they call me.

TALIESIN: I'm going to do something I've never
done before.

MATT: That brings us to-- Keyleth, what did you
get?

LAURA: Oh no! Ten.

MARISHA: Yeah, I'm distracted.

MATT: All right. The image of this whole thing--
even though it looks like it's currently

surrounded, its giant form, barely damaged at this
point, is still a very ominous thing that strikes

a bit of fear in your heart, causing you to hold
back on your initial assault. And also worrying

about not knowing how the rest of your party is
doing. Percy, you start this off right now.

TALIESIN: Pull out Bad News.

MATT: Okay.

TALIESIN: I'm going to take aim, and I'm going to
wait for it to raise its club hand up. It's

holding a club?

MATT: Actually, from this view, you can see it's
actually a very large morningstar.

TALIESIN: It's a very large morningstar? Drop
that. I'm going to have him drop the morningstar.

Aimed shot.

MATT: All right.

MARISHA: Come on, Percy roll! He's got shitty AC.

TALIESIN: Thankfully, it's got shitty AC. 16?

MATT: 16 does hit.

TALIESIN: Drop it.

MATT: All right, so as you get down to the ground,
(gunshot blast) the echoing explosive shot fired

from the Bad News slams up as it lifts its morningstar
in the air. Two of its fingers get blown

off its hand, and the morningstar tumbles (boof)
onto the ground, nearly crushing one of the guards

nearby, who barely manages to sidestep as it
(boof, boof) lands on its side right outside the

temple of Pelor. Well done.

TALIESIN: Next shot, I'm taking a sharpshooter
shot. I'm reloading.

MATT: Yep, reload with your second attack.

TALIESIN: Taking a sharpshooter shot.

MATT: All right.

TALIESIN: 15?

MATT: 15 hits.

TALIESIN: And this is also an aimed shot. Sorry, I
spent another grit. So sorry for not saying that.

I'll do my damage and then tell you. It was an
aimed shot to the legs, so that's-- oh my god. 16,

26, 32 points of damage, and it needs to make a
constitution saving throw.

MATT: Okay. What's the DC on it?

TALIESIN: Oh my god, this is insane. DC equals
eight plus your proficiency modifier plus your

dexterity modifier?

MATT: Yeah.

TALIESIN: Proficiency modifier is four, dexterity
modifier is--

MATT: So, 18.

TALIESIN: Yeah, 18.

MATT: All right. It rolled a 16 and has a plus
four modifier on constitution,

so it makes the save.

TALIESIN AND MARISHA: Damn it.

MATT: Sorry.

TALIESIN: That's okay. I still did a ton of
damage.

MATT: Yeah. (explosion) The blast took a chunk of
its physical form. Splatters against the side of

the temple. That ending your turn. It, having no
hand at its disposal, it glances over with this

slow turning head. (groans) Reaches over and grabs
a big piece of the stone rubble that was destroyed

from the corner of the temple. Picks it up over
its head (grunts) and lobs it at you across the

way. (whoosh, whoosh, whoosh)

MARISHA: (groans)

MATT: That's going to be a 21 to hit.

TALIESIN: Oh, that hits.

MATT: That hits? You take 28 points of bludgeoning
damage and have to make a strength saving throw.

TALIESIN: Just strength saving throw?

MATT: Yep.

TALIESIN: No, I rolled a one.

MARISHA: Fuck!

MATT: So it slams into you and knocks you off your
feet, prone from the sheer impact. It rests on

part of your arm and you have to (grunts) work
hard to push it off. That will end its turn.

TALIESIN: How much damage did it do to me?

MATT: 28.

TALIESIN: 28?

MATT: 28 points of bludgeoning damage. That ends
its go. Vax, you're up.

LIAM: I'm watching everything unfold. I see my
sister roll up. I hold.

MATT: Okay. Vex?

LAURA: I say, brother. You remember that giant a
few years back?

LIAM: I remember that giant.

LAURA: You're up. And I shoot two arrows for my
two attacks. One into his thigh and one into his

breast, right here.

MATT: Okay, go for it. Roll for two attacks.

LIAM: Ooh.

LAURA: I don't know which ones to go with!

SAM: They both fail.

LAURA: They both hit. They're both 24s.

MATT: Both 24s?

LIAM: Identical.

MATT: Both hit, yeah. Roll damage for each.

LAURA: All right. That's so crazy!

TRAVIS: Same thing.

LAURA: Yeah. Plus 14 is... 26? 26, 27, 28, 29, 30,
plus Hunter's Mark for both.

MATT: 2d6 on top of that.

LAURA: 33, 37 points of damage.

MATT: 37 points of damage. (arrows flying and
landing) It slams into the knee itself, pushing

out the kneecap a little bit from the side of its
softened flesh. The other one (boof) sticks and

disappears into its torso. You don't even see the
impact. It pushes through the flesh and vanishes

into its very large--

LAURA: Wait, the whole arrow goes in? I wanted to
leave some of it out.

MATT: Okay. We'll say for the piece of impact
here. Okay, roll a strength check.

TALIESIN: I believe in you.

MATT: This is control over your strength on this
one.

LAURA: 21.

MATT: 21? What did you roll?

LAURA AND LIAM: 19.

MATT: What's your strength?

LAURA: Oh, that's saving throw. Wait. Wait, yeah!
Oh, damn it. 17.

MATT: 17. I was going to say, you have minus two
strength. I know that.

LAURA: Sorry.

MATT: It's okay. That's still enough. Gauging,
pulling back on what little bit of focus you have

as far as restraining. You're good at aim;
restraining is something you have difficulty with.

But you release the arrow, hitting at a very
defined mark, shattering part of its rib there in

the front, and the arrow sticking out by about a
good six inches or so.

MARISHA: Nice.

LIAM: I start running. Am I within 30 feet? It's
hard to tell from here.

MATT: You are not.

LIAM: All right, so I hit one ankle against the
other on my boots and everything slows down around

me a little bit, and I double my speed and run
towards it.

MATT: Did you use your Boots of Haste at the end
of last session?

LIAM: I don't know.

SAM: It's been a long day. We've had three
sessions.

MATT: I feel like you used it.

LIAM: If there's doubt, then I can't do it. All
right, I still run at it.

MATT: You could use a bonus action to dash, don't
forget, as a rogue.

LIAM: That's what I do. He's surrounded by people,
right? So, I'm going to run up to him and I'm

going to start swinging up the arrows on his chest
and get up to his head.

MATT: Okay. So you run up, planting a foot on its
thigh, leap in the air, grab onto the arrow that

Vex left in its chest, whip upward, and while
you're in the air towards its face, go ahead and

make your attack.

TALIESIN: Yeah, Legolas.

MATT: You only get one attack because you used
your bonus action to dash.

LIAM: Yeah. Never mind. Nine is a 20.

MATT: You do have advantage on this, if you wish
to roll. You technically have him flanked with the

other guy.

LIAM: That's a 26.

MATT: That hits, definitely.

LIAM: Yeah, because he's surrounded. All right, so
I'm up on his shoulders at this point. One plus

seven is eight, plus ten, 11, 16, that's 21, 23.

MATT: 23 points of damage?

LIAM: Yeah, with Flametongue.

MATT: All righty. So as you leap into the air, you
bring the blade, slam into the center of its face,

over one of the eyebrows. It slams into the skull,
and using your weight, you tear down, dragging the

blade across its face. The bone is brittle
underneath its flesh, and it hacks part of its

face open. The bone and teeth immediately become
visible. Its jaw clenches and actually clamps onto

your blade as it reaches the bottom of its face
and you catch yourself there for a second, the

horrible scent of its rotting flesh hitting your
body. You manage to take your foot up, push off,

pulling the blade out from under its toothy grasp,
and you land on the ground right beside it. Big

old jagged gash in the side of its face.

LIAM: Right.

MATT: Cool.

LIAM: That's it.

MATT: All right. Now the rest of the guards are
going to go.

TRAVIS: Guards.

TALIESIN: Guards.

MATT: Oh, natural 20. These are the resistance
members.

TRAVIS: I haven't had a natural 20 in the game.

LAURA: Ever?

TRAVIS: In a long time. Except when I head-butted
a fomorian.

TALIESIN: Would you like to borrow my die and see
if it does anything?

TRAVIS: No, you keep your Golden Snitch.

LAURA: I think it's just you.

SAM: Keep your cheated die all for yourself,
there.

TRAVIS: Harry Potter.

MATT: 21 points of damage for the non-criticals.

TALIESIN: It's hollow.

LAURA: What is he doing? What's happening over
there?

MATT: So, all the guards now seeing this opening
and these sudden heroes rushing in to attack it

use this opening. Some have shortswords, some have
spears. They start jamming them into its sides,

beginning to take chunks out of it and basically
scraping away its form, its mass that is keeping

it aloft through this necromantic enchantment.

That ends their turn. Keyleth, you're up.

MARISHA: Okay, so you're on him.

LIAM: I'm not.

MATT: Landed beside him now, after he pulled the
blade out of its face.

LIAM: I'm right below his undead dinger.

MARISHA: But there's a ton of people surrounding
him.

MATT: Correct.

SAM: So light him up.

MARISHA: Okay. I'm going to kill everybody if I
start bringing down bolts of lightning. So I'm

going to move up a little bit, to where I'm within
30 feet of him. Over here or something?

MATT: That'll put you just at 30 feet.

MARISHA: Can I see Vax?

MATT: Yeah, you can barely see Vax. Vax is hard to
see, period, but you can

barely see Vax at this point.

MARISHA: Okay.

LAURA: It's night. He's in black.

MARISHA: So, looking at the giant and realizing
that if I bring lightning down, I'll just start

electrocuting everybody around, I meditate for a
second and go super calm and start casting Heat

Metal, and I start meditating on Vax's daggers.

MATT: Okay.

MARISHA: So your daggers are going to do an extra
2d8 damage. And he's up against a wall, correct?

MATT: He's currently up against the edge of the
temple, yes.

MARISHA: Okay, I'm going to use my bonus. I'm
running fucking low on spells. Fuck, I don't want to

do it. I'm going to do my bonus action to cast
Grasping Vine.

MATT: Just so you're aware, Heat Metal does 2d8
damage to him for holding onto it. It doesn't do

additional damage.

LIAM: I say we move forward.

MATT: Okay.

LAURA: You're going to just take it?

LIAM: It's done. She cast it. Let's go on.

MATT: Just letting you know for future reference.

MARISHA: Okay. It's because it worked that way in
Pathfinder. I used to do that with Grog's axe all

the time.

SAM: Stupid Pathfinder.

LAURA: But you also had to touch his axe.

MATT: So Vax, you immediately take 2d8 points of
fire damage.

LIAM: Yes sir.

MATT: And you have to make a constitution saving
throw vs her DC, or you drop

both of your daggers.

LIAM: (weak laughter) Okay.

SAM: It's fun.

MARISHA: Thanks, Sam.

TRAVIS: I'm laughing.

LIAM: What am I doing?

MATT: Make a constitution saving throw. What's the
DC on your spells?

MARISHA: My spell save DC? 18.

LIAM: Fuck a duck, that's hot!

MATT: Both daggers just drop to the ground. As
they both slam into the mud, (sizzling sound).

MARISHA: I'm like, yeah. We're going to hurt this
motherfucker so bad.

MATT: She's not even watching. She's just
concentrating on it.

And then with your bonus action?

MARISHA: Bonus action, I'm going to wrap him up
with a Grasping Vine and try to restrain him.

MATT: Okay, so you open your eyes.

MARISHA: I'm like, man, I'm such a fucking badass
right now. What am I doing?

MATT: So you're going to restrain him with a
Grasping Vine.

MARISHA: Yeah. I think he has to save against it.

MATT: Yeah, make a dexterity saving throw or be
pulled. It doesn't restrain, it just pulls them

towards the vine. Since he's already against the
wall, you can pull him away or toward.

SAM: Nothing you do does what you want it to do.

MARISHA: Fucking fail.

MATT: Read the spells! The information's right
there!

SAM: So you're pulling him towards you?

LAURA: You can pull him towards the ground, can't
you?

MARISHA: Yeah, can I pull him towards the center
of the earth?

MATT: Because of his-- sure.

SAM: That's a no.

MATT: All right. He fails on the DC. That's a
total of ten. We'll say for the time being, he is

considered grappled.

SAM: Nice!

MATT: You did something.

MARISHA: Thanks, man.

MATT: You're welcome.

MARISHA: Man, I'm so cool right now. I'm
concentrating so hard!

MATT: You finish concentrating, you release the
Grasping Vine, it pulls a little hard to the

ground. You see its form go (groans). It doesn't
look very happy, and you see Vax going, (gasps).

There are these little cylinders of steam rising
up from the ground where his daggers are currently

(sizzling noise).

MARISHA: And she's like, well, deal with it! It's
going to be awesome!

MATT: That ends your turn. We're back to the top
of the round. Percy, you're up.

TALIESIN: I'm pinned and annoyed. I'm shooting him
in the face.

MATT: Okay, so you're prone.

TALIESIN: Am I prone?

MATT: You're prone. The boulder knocked you
prone.

TALIESIN: Okay, can I use my movement to get up?

MATT: You can. You get up and use half of your
movement.

TALIESIN: (grunts) I get up, shake it off, pull up
for another shot. Shooting at his face. I'm

reloading, shooting at his face.

MATT: You're reloading and then shooting.

TRAVIS: Bad News or Pepperbox?

TALIESIN: Bad News. I'm doing the same thing I was
doing before, so that's eight plus seven.

15 to hit?

MATT: 15 does hit.

TALIESIN: 15 hits, so that's... ugh. That's 20
points of damage.

MATT: All righty.

TALIESIN: And now he has disadvantage on his
attacks for the next round.

MATT: Okay, so this is the headshot?

TALIESIN: Yeah.

MATT: Okay.

TALIESIN: And just because I'm feeling like a
jerk, I'm burning an action surge. Forget it.

Reloading-- oh, I've actually--

MATT: You've already used your action surge for
the day.

TALIESIN: No, it's a short rest.

MATT: Oh, it is a short rest? Yeah, go for it.

TALIESIN: I checked. I'm being good. That's 11.
That hits. I'm out of grit points.

MARISHA: Kill something.

TALIESIN: 32 points of damage.

MATT: All right.

TALIESIN: Reload, fire again.

That also hits.

MATT: His AC is eight, by the way. It's a big
heaping pile of hit points. It's not hard to hit.

TRAVIS: Pile of undead goo.

MATT: You've attacked it enough that you gather
it's pretty easy to hit.

TRAVIS: Yeah, there was a 12 and I was like, what?

TALIESIN: 14, 24, 30 points of damage. And now I'm
going to use my bonus action to heal.

MATT: All righty. Go for it.

TALIESIN: Heal myself. That's 19 points healed.

MATT: All right. Now the giant, pieces missing out
of its body, looks around and it reaches down and

grabs-- yeah, it's going to use one of its attacks
and grab the morningstar, and with

its second act it's going to swing over towards
you, Vax. You just slammed into

its face with the dagger.

TALIESIN: Disadvantage.

MATT: Yes.

MARISHA: And he's grappled.

MATT: An 11 and a one. Grappling just prevents
movement, but yeah, he goes in and swings wide and

you just duck out of the way, dodge off to the
side. (boosh) It slams and gets stuck in the mud

and there's a (sucking noise) horrible sucking
sound as it has to pull it out of the ground with

all of its might. That ends its turn. This giant's
in a bad place. You're up.

LIAM: What position is it in?

MATT: It's currently kneeled forward, just pulling
its morningstar out of the mud.

LIAM: (pants) I reach down and I grab the
scalding-hot daggers again, and I lift them up,

and lunge and sink into its ribs.

MATT: Okay. You take 2d8 points of fire damage.
Roll it, Keyleth.

MARISHA: So does he, right? Because that's kind of
badass. Seven points of damage.

LIAM: Oh, you roll? Seven or eight, yeah.

MATT: You pick up the daggers, take the damage,
lift them up to go in for the attack.

Roll for the attack.

LIAM: The first one hits. That's a 30. And the
second one is 17. And he's still surrounded, so

the first one is going to sneak attack his ass.
Two plus three, nine, ten, 11, 12, 15, 16, 17.

MATT: All right.

LIAM: 17. On the second attack, Flametongue gets
seven.

MATT: Seven, okay.

LAURA: Plus 2d8 for your fire damage.

LIAM: Oh, plus 2d8 for the fire damage.

MARISHA: Does he also get the fire damage?

LIAM: That's a yeah. If I get burned, he gets
burned, right?

MATT: I'll allow it. That's not usually how the
spell works. I'll allow it for this circumstance.

Since you're taking the damage to do the attack,
I'll let it happen.

LIAM: All right. 14.

MATT: Okay. So, as you're holding the daggers with
the searing pain, you reach up, slash both daggers

down into the front of its body and you drag
across, you can see its chest breaks open and it

(groans) stumbles backward, the air expiring from
its throat. (roars) It pushes up against it,

holding onto that shred of undeath that it
currently has in its body, not falling to your

measly blows. That ends your turn. Do you want to
move at all?

LIAM: I didn't move. Can I use a bonus action, at
this point?

MATT: You used a bonus action for your second
attack.

LIAM: Second attack? Okay.

MATT: Yeah, because you're not hasted. All right,
go for it, Vex.

LAURA: Okay. I'm going to shoot him two times
through my Blazing Bowstring, which I still have

one left of.

MATT: First strike will be the Blazing Bowstring?

LAURA: Yeah.

MATT: Okay.

LAURA: That hits. Second one hits, too.

MATT: All right.

LAURA: Okay! What's the Blazing Bowstring, again?
1d10, okay.

LIAM: You've got a lot of papers in there.

LAURA: I know. I do have a lot of little papers.
Six plus seven is 13, 14, 15, plus fire damage.

21, plus Hunter's Mark. 22 for the first hit.

MATT: Hold on.

LIAM: Get it.

MATT: How do you want to do this?

(cheering)

LAURA: Oh, that feels so good. As he's bent over,
I want to--

LIAM: You're wearing the shirt, even.

LAURA: I know! I'm wearing the shirt! As he's bent
over and I just saw my brother attack him with

fire, I hit him with fire again, straight through
the eyeball that's remaining, through the back of

his head.

MATT: Okay, so as you release the arrow itself,
you can feel the warmth licking the side of your

face as the arrow heats up. Release it. It shoots
through the air like a tracer dart, just (arrow

whizzing). The giant, which is currently reaching
back-- it has a palm out like it's going to try to

palm Vax after the attack. As it reaches up,
(groans) it just (arrow whizzing) into the back of

the eye, and as it sinks inside its head, (thud)
there's this dull thud sound, like the fire burst

on the inside of its head. Its other eye
(explosion) plumps out and hangs out the side as

fire darts out from that open socket. Its jaw goes
slack, and it begins to lurch forward towards you

and the guy next to it. Both of you guys step back
out of the way as it (moans, thuds) onto the muddy

ground in front of you.

LAURA: (pants)

MATT: Everyone takes a breath for a second.

LIAM: I start sticking my hands in a puddle.

LAURA: I run up with Trinket to the guards.

MARISHA: I go up to start seeing if I can salvage
anything from this giant.

LIAM: Like my hands?

MARISHA: Do I see Vax with his hands in the mud?

MATT: Yes, you see him currently putting out his
hands.

MARISHA: What did-- what?

LIAM: Could you fix these?

MARISHA: Oh. Did it work, though? I'm sorry.

LIAM: Yeah, it worked, it's good, but they sting a
little bit.

MARISHA: Okay. I put my hands in his hands and
cast Cure Wounds.

MATT: Okay.

MARISHA: I'm going to use it from my ring. My
spell-slot ring.

MATT: What level?

MARISHA: I'll do level two.

MATT: Level two? Okay, so 2d8 plus six.

MARISHA: 12.

MATT: So you heal 12 hit points.

LIAM: I heal. I also hold her hands for a second.

LAURA: I walk through and bust through their
hands.

TRAVIS: There you go.

LAURA: I want to talk to the guards.

MATT: The guards who currently are checking to
make sure it's dead. They're stabbing its body.

TALIESIN: Putting the guns away and walking over
to the guards, as well.

MATT: Okay. You notice, they look like guards at
first glance because the armor they're wearing is

the same type of armor that the guards you've
encountered here wear, but they're all, underneath

the armor, wearing rags, farmer's clothing,
whatever's available. It's still uniform armor and

weapon design to anyone who's worked in
Whitestone.

SAM: Are any of them in berets?

MATT: You don't know because you're not there.

SAM: Damn it!

LIAM: Are they unsullied?

MATT: (laughs)

LAURA: I put my hand on one of their shoulders and
say, you showed great bravery here.

MATT: "Thank you. Thank you for coming and
helping. That got a little hairy there, for a

"minute. We didn't lose any of our men, thankfully,
and that's thanks to you." He reaches up for a

second and wipes this black blood stuck to his
chin from the fight. "So. What's next?"

LAURA: Now we rest up. You heal, and you get ready
to attack tomorrow.

MATT: "All right. What time?"

TALIESIN: Tomorrow at dawn, we take the castle.

MATT: "All right. Men."

TALIESIN: Spread the word.

LAURA: Dawn.

MATT: "Dawn. Dawn it is." Sheathes his weapon. The
other men stand up, and one of them makes one

final stab into the body of the zombie, like,
"Yeah. Take that." They begin to walk

back towards town.

MARISHA: Before he runs off, I tell him, "Tell
everyone to look for the sign of

"Pelor in the sky."

MATT: One of them goes, "Pelor. Right." Three of
them run back to the doorway of the temple, and

they all stop for a second and give a silent
prayer to themselves, and then join the rest of

their crew as they go walking back towards the
city.

MARISHA: What time is it right now?

MATT: Right now? It's hard to tell.

LAURA: Hopefully, it's a while until dawn.

MATT: It's about two hours past sunset.

LAURA: Oh, good. We've got time! That's good.

LIAM: I pull out my Flametongue dagger and just
look in two or three graves. I don't know if

there's anything in there.

SAM: Are you trying to grave rob right now?

MATT: Make an investigation check.

LIAM: They're empty, man. That is a 15.

TALIESIN: You're literally going to steal from my
great-grandfather?

LIAM: I'm just looking.

TALIESIN: All right.

MATT: Glancing about, you notice that the coffins
are still there at the bottom, but they're all

open. The lids are off, and they're empty
entirely. Whatever body is gone. Best you can

glance about, the most that you can find, most of
them are just laid to rest. One of them seems to

be laid to rest with what looks to be a nice
ornamental dagger of some kind that's left to

their side.

TRAVIS: Fucking do it.

LAURA AND LIAM: (laugh)

MARISHA: It could be cursed.

TRAVIS: Do whatever you want. I'm not here.

LIAM: Are you giving me morality lessons?

TRAVIS: I'm not even here.

TALIESIN: I'm going to check my family grave. The
family crypt.

MATT: There actually is an undercroft in your
castle.

TALIESIN: Oh, that's right!

LIAM: I want to drop down. I'm going to take a
look at that, yeah.

LAURA: You're going to go get the dagger?

LIAM: I'm going to look at it.

LAURA: That ornamental dagger?

MATT: So you leap down into the grave...

LIAM: Tell me more about that dagger?

MATT: From what you can see from up there, it just
looks like a fairly nice dagger, it has a little

like gold sheen to it, and looks like there's gems
encrusted in it from this distance.

LAURA: All right, go get it.

(laughter)

LAURA: It looks shiny.

MATT: So you leap down into the grave, drop, your
feet hitting against the wooden bottom of the

coffin. Smells musty and it's been rained in
heavily, so it's not as bad as it could be. It

looks to be a pretty dagger. You reach for it and
pick it up and look at it, it's lightweight, it's

ornamental, it's not actually more of a
functional--

LIAM: I want to make an arcana check.

LAURA: It's ornamental.

LIAM: I just want to make an arcana check.

MATT: Go for it, go for it.

LIAM: It's a 20.

MATT: Natural 20?

LIAM: No. 20.

MATT: Okay. Take a look at it, there doesn't
appear to be enough of a rune structure even on

this dagger to give it like a formal enchantment.
It looks ritualistic and ornamental. It's probably

worth a pretty penny, but it is not a--

LIAM: I put it down and I pat it and I--

MATT: Climb back up out of the grave.

LAURA: He doesn't know!

MARISHA: Can I salvage anything from the stone
giant?

LIAM: Tourist, I'm a tourist.

MATT: Go ahead and make a wisdom check, just roll
a d20, add your six to it.

MARISHA: Just a wisdom check?

MATT: Yep.

MARISHA: 12 total.

MATT: 12. Looking over the body, this entity and
anything that would be functional on the stone

giant's body is far rotted and necrosis has taken
hold on a lot of the body parts. Nothing here

would be of use in any way, shape, or form. Plus
stone giants don't really have any magical

components to their body, they're just larger
humanoids. What small trophies you could take from

it, you could sell here and there for a little bit
of change, are also rotted and corroded by its

undead form that it wouldn't be worth it.

LIAM: Their teeth are good for 1d8s, though.

MATT: (laughs) This is true. All right, so what's
the plan?

LAURA: We should head west.

MARISHA: Head west, meet up.

MATT: All right. So you guys--

LAURA: I take the little bit of Dust of
Tracelessness that we had taken from Grog and I

try to sprinkle it on our tracks as we go and
cover up our tracks.

MATT: Okay. As you pull the dust out of your
pouch, you look at it, and it's turned to just

sand. It seems that the Dust of Tracelessness is
effective when only pulled and used directly out

of its pouch--

TRAVIS: By its designated flower girl.

MATT: If taken out remotely and left on its own
for a while, it becomes magically inert.

LAURA: Well then, I use my ranger skills to try to
make it look like our tracks are hidden.

TALIESIN: I know the city well enough to take us
through a relatively--

MATT: Yes. This is one of those few circumstances
where Percy's almost more helpful than you are as

far as making your way through. The two of you
together? Very helpful. You guys have been making

your way through the city, making westward to meet
up with the rest of the party against the wall on

the western side of Whitestone. And with that,
we're going to go ahead and take a quick bathroom

break, bring in some snacks. So hang tight, guys,
we'll be back here in just a minute.

LAURA: I love you, Pike!

[break]

MATT: Welcome back, everyone. So. Picking up where
we left off, eventually, the longest-traveling

group would be the one that went all the way to
the Zenith, the temple of Pelor. Eventually, the

rain still heavily coming down, you guys keeping
warm and out of the way to the far, far western

wall, kind of keeping behind a bush. The rest of
the party arrives, the gnomes and goliath

barbarian waiting for you as you approach.

(laughter)

LIAM: Taking your pee break now.

MATT: So. The rest of you guys gather, what are
you doing? What's your plan?

TRAVIS: We're against the wall? Should we stay in
the treeline?

LAURA: We need to hide.

SAM: How is everyone? Did you defeat your giant?

LAURA: Totally did.

SAM: You know who defeated ours? Pike, because
she's the fucking bomb.

MARISHA: Pike, we've missed you so much.

SAM: Pike, come here and give me a hug! I give her
a hug. What happens?

MATT: Okay. (laughs) You go and hug her, and it's
one of those things where because her form, it

feels like you're grabbing almost a warm,
energetic gelatin in a way, like her form isn't

purely physical.

SAM: Just how I remember you! Warm gelatin.

MATT: And there is this hot wind that wraps around
her and her hair is drifting a little bit. There's

something, her physical form is very strange
here.

MARISHA: How did you get here, Pike? How did you
know?

ASHLEY: Well, as you guys know, I've been working
at the temple and it's been very hard work.

(laughs) And I, I just, I think about you all
constantly, and every day, I felt a heaviness, and

I've had these visions of terrible things, and I
felt a disturbance in the Force.

(laughter)

ASHLEY: But today, it became too much.

MATT: You had received a letter from Allura, from
Emon, if you recall.

ASHLEY: I received a letter!

(laughter)

ASHLEY: I received a letter from Allura, and I
felt that you guys-- are you guys making a

decision or something here in Whitestone?

SAM: Many decisions. We've decided to take down
this horrible foe, and Percy's been grappling with

a lot of decisions as we've gone.

LAURA: Pike, maybe you could help him.

MARISHA: Yeah, can you take a look at him, Pike? I
believe it's out of my realm of understanding.

TRAVIS: Actually, Percy's just fine. Maybe she
looks at him after the Briarwoods.

TALIESIN: Well...

MARISHA: There was a long pause.

ASHLEY: That was a very long pause.

TRAVIS: Percy, how are you feeling?

TALIESIN: Honestly, if Pike weren't here, I'd say
fine, but... (sighs) How do you think I am, Pike?

ASHLEY: Well, most of my... my heaviness and
visions were about you.

TALIESIN: (sighs)

ASHLEY: I've been in deep prayer and meditation,
and I know you guys were in a very dark place, and

I prayed that Sarenrae would send me to you. And
so here I am, sort of as an avatar, but I'm here,

and I want to help in any way that I can. I just
know something's off, and I don't quite know what

that is yet.

MATT: Her form shimmers for a second, almost like
the energy that keeps her corporeal in this

location for a moment flickers, and then she is
restored to her form. You get the sense that--

MARISHA: This isn't going to last long.

MATT: That she's not actually physically here.
This divine projection is a channeling of

Sarenrae's power keeping her here for the moment.

LAURA: Damn, Sarenrae is really freaking
powerful.

MARISHA: Yeah, I have a feeling she's probably
using a lot of energy to do this, too. Pike, do

you know how much longer you can stay in this
form, that you can stay with us?

ASHLEY: I don't know. This is the first time that
I've ever done this, so I'm hoping that it will

last a long time, at least to see you through.

TRAVIS: Oh, us, too.

LAURA: Us, too.

ASHLEY: (fake crying)

TRAVIS: Hey, Pike. Do you want to take Percy's
temperature?

LAURA: Should we find a place to hide first?

ASHLEY: Yeah. We're still in the open, right?

TALIESIN: There's a secret entrance to the castle
to the west, in the woods. I think perhaps if we

made our way there, we could--

MARISHA: Get inside?

TALIESIN: Camp out, perhaps. It would be a roof
over our heads if we got there, and we could take

care of anyone--

SAM: Percy's thinking very clearly. He's fine.

LAURA: He's rubbing his eyes a lot.

MARISHA: He's had this weird cough for a couple of
days now.

SAM: He's allergic to cats or something.

TALIESIN: I'm not allergic to cats.

LAURA: Pike, he has black smoke coming out of his
body all the time.

SAM: I have lightning coming out of my ass.

LAURA: Yeah, well, you choose to do that.

TALIESIN: Let's make our way to somewhere quiet.

MARISHA: We'll have her look at you there. I do a
Gust to do that air umbrella thing

around all of us.

MATT: That really terrible one that doesn't work
well?

MARISHA: Yeah, the really terrible one. I'm doing
that to help keep us shielded from the rain.

MATT: Okay. Are you guys coasting within the
city's walls, or are you moving outside of the

city's walls?

LAURA: Outside of the city.

MATT: Okay. So you find your way a little bit
southward--

LAURA: Stealthing.

MATT: Stealthing, to make your way outside of the
city, into the forest surrounding the outskirts of

Whitestone. Make a stealth check, guys. This is
without the plus ten bonus because you don't have

any more spells.

LAURA: I don't.

TRAVIS: Yeah! Oh. Really? I get plus two to
stealth?

MATT: Grog?

TRAVIS: 18.

LAURA: Ooh. 20.

LIAM: 23.

SAM: 12.

MARISHA: 17.

TALIESIN: 15 with disadvantage.

MATT: Okay.

SAM: And Pike?

LAURA: Pike, what did you roll for stealth? She's
an apparition!

ASHLEY: I rolled a ten.

MATT: You rolled a ten?

LAURA: Clang!

ASHLEY: Ten.

MATT: Okay.

TALIESIN: Clang, clang, clang.

MATT: All right. As you guys move into the forest,
the boughs of the trees do help offset some of the

rain, but there is still some rain making it
through, and there is a heavy drip through the

leaves you start pushing through. You make your
way out, I'd say a good five minutes to the west

of the city before you start heading northward,
both Percy and Vex taking lead on this. You, being

the natural stalker. You, knowing these lands
quite well.

As Percy presses along, coughing and keeping his
eyes peeled, you press on for about 30 minutes to

the north. The rain begins to subside a little
bit, and you can hear the occasional (cracking

noise) sound of these strange growling, cat-like
noises. You know that some of the indigenous

creatures of the Sierras--

TALIESIN: Do I know what this sound is?

MATT: You've heard this before. It's nothing
terribly dangerous. They're just natural cat-like

creatures that live in the trees. Ocelot-like.
They're indigenous to this region; that's them

communicating. It's initially off-setting, but you
keep pushing forward. I would have both of you

guys make survival checks.

LAURA: (whispering) Survival checks?

TALIESIN: I don't think I've ever rolled that
before.

MARISHA: Come on, city boy.

LAURA: Oh! I have advantage.

MATT: That's true. And you would have advantage,
actually, because you know this area.

LAURA: Really? Did that just happen?

LIAM: Wow. She rolled two threes in a row.

LAURA: I've got to retire it. It's so beautiful,
and I keep trying it.

TRAVIS: It's certainly the die, and not you in any
way.

LAURA: It's just been punishing me, as of late.

TALIESIN: 14.

MATT: 14? Okay.

LAURA: Ten.

MATT: The two of you, working together on this--
it takes you an hour or so before you eventually

get further enough north and out of the outskirts
of Whitestone where you begin to see the rising

platform, the small central forest mesa that the
castle Whitestone is built upon. You can see,

through the heavy cloud cover, what little bit of torch
light is visible from some of the castle interior

in the distance. It's this ominous dark shape
outlined against the cloud cover above you.

LIAM: On that walk, while they're leading the way,
I quietly walk alongside Pike and fill her in on

everything I have seen happen with Percival: the
smoke coming out of him, the darker turn in his

personality, the way that he branded that man.
Everything that I am worried about.

SAM: The cough.

LIAM: The cough. Everything, so that she's filled
in on his darker turn.

MATT: Okay. Did you get that, Ashley?

ASHLEY: I did.

MATT: So, pressing on, eventually catching the
edge of that mountain. That, to you, is the

inclination; you know this area very well,
spending most of your time living around this

castle. You gesture for the rest of the group to
follow you up towards the edge of this central

mountain platform that the castle's upon.
Eventually, coasting along the side-- I want you

to make an investigation check, Percy.

TALIESIN: 16?

MATT: 16? Okay. Pushing forward, you spend a good
20 minutes walking back and forth. You're pretty

sure that this is where the entrance is, and
looking along this area, you make your way to the

northern side of this mountain. No entrance seems
to be appearing to you. There's no opening.

There's no doorway. It was a cavern exit that was
loosely hidden by a series of bushes that were

clustered around it.

TALIESIN: It should be around here.

LAURA: Can I start taking a look around and 
see if I see anything?

LIAM: All of us, yeah.

TRAVIS: We should be very careful. These two are
good at using their brain muscles. Could be an

ambush.

LIAM: 26 on perception.

LAURA: That's way better than mine. 17.

MATT: Okay. About ten minutes of you guys
searching as you travel southward among this...

okay. You guys watch along the wall, and nothing
seems to be catching your eye. You notice that

there's a portion of the mountainside that is
looser rock. Everything here is solid, long-eroded

through weather and time. There is one section
that appears to have more of a crumbly, loose rock

that forms the lower portion of the wall.

LIAM: Big guy, come here.

TRAVIS: What?

LIAM: This is new. These haven't been here long.
I'm not very strong; do you

want to start hucking rocks?

TRAVIS: Wait, say that again?

LIAM: I am extremely fast and nimble and could
totally fuck you up, but I can't lift that much,

including door jambs. Could you help me move these
rocks?

TRAVIS: I suppose. I go and I start moving
rocks.

LIAM: You look very handsome in that beard.

MATT: Okay. Make an athletics check.

MARISHA: (laughs) Oh shit.

TRAVIS: Never forget. 18.

MATT: 18, okay. You go over and start pulling the
rocks away. A lot of the ones at the very surface

are pretty small and you're pushing them aside and
rolling off. Eventually, you start getting to the

base of this area and you can see now, there are a
cluster of bushes that have long died and are

crushed under these rocks.

TALIESIN: Does this look familiar to me?

MATT: This would be similar to the placement of
where the bushes were that originally obscured the

crawlspace that led into this tunnel.

TALIESIN: I think this might be it.

LAURA: Well, what happened here?

SAM: Did they blow it?

LAURA: Does it look like a cave-in, like somebody
did it on purpose?

MARISHA: Can I do a nature check to see if this is
natural or man-done?

MATT: Sure. Go for it.

SAM: "Man-done."

MARISHA: I think that's a 21.

MATT: 21?

MARISHA: Yeah, 21.

MATT: Inspecting this, the pattern in which it
fell was very localized, which leads you to

believe--

MARISHA: I think this was blasted down.

MATT: Yeah, this was blasted or was intentionally
done to demolish this exit as opposed to a natural

fall. At this point in time, you've pulled through
a few of the larger rocks, and you roll them over

and you do reveal a small tunnel.

TRAVIS: Hey, look! I found a hole.

MARISHA: Good work, Grog.

MATT: About 15 minutes of pushing this stuff out
of the way before you eventually find it, and it's

probably a good ten feet inward.

SAM: Can we get in it?

MATT: It's tight, but you can start moving in
there.

LIAM: Scanlan, squish in there.

SAM: Well, we have two gnomes with us.

LIAM: She'll light up the hole.

SAM: I hope so.

(laughter)

SAM: I will shimmy in, just to see what's down
there.

MATT: Okay. You make your way into this lower
tunnel. A bit sharp in there. Black as night; no

light source. The ground itself is very dry, which
is a nice change from the rather wet exterior

awaiting you outside. It generally smells musty
and seems disused. And very dark.

LIAM: I lean down and say, does it look like
somewhere that we can rest for the night?

SAM: Oi! I can't see anything.

(laughter)

SAM: You got a torch up there, or something?

LIAM: I flip my Flametongue dagger over backwards
and hand it to him through this little hole.

MATT: Okay. You take the dagger.

SAM: This feels so cool. It's like a shortsword
for me!

(laughter)

MATT: With the flickering light along the blade,
it lights up the area. The tunnel widens up to

roughly eight to ten feet wide and seems to curl
forward before disappearing around a gradual edge

about 50 feet ahead of you. It's about six feet
tall, so the taller of you folk are going to have

to crouch in, but it's about six feet tall, about
eight to ten feet wide, and that continues to curl

deeper in towards the mountain.

SAM: No one down here, but I don't know how far
this thing goes, and I don't know how well it's

guarded.

TRAVIS: Are there trees around us?

MATT: Yeah. No more than maybe five feet off this
mountain line, the forest grows immediately

dense.

MARISHA: If they've blasted in the entrance, I
have a feeling--

TALIESIN: I don't think they're expecting anyone
from here.

MARISHA: They're not expecting people.

LIAM: This was taken care of, in their minds. I
say we squeeze Grog and Trinket in here.

SAM: And camp in the tunnel?

LIAM: Yeah. I'll go ahead a bit and take a quick
peeky-poo.

TRAVIS: You don't think they'll patrol this area?

LIAM: No.

LAURA: Does it seem like there's cobwebs? Does it
seem dusty and disused?

MATT: If you crawl inside to look...

MARISHA: Are we inside? Let's all crawl in.

MATT: As you guys all may your way inside,
glancing about-- make an investigation check.

MARISHA: I light up my hands.

SAM: I put Vax's dagger in my back pocket. Cover
it up with my shirt.

MATT: Okay. Make a sleight-of-hand check.

LAURA: 20.

MATT: Okay. Yeah, there's been no footsteps in
here for quite some time.

SAM: Seven.

LAURA: This has definitely been disused. Disused?
Is that a good word?

TALIESIN: Abandoned.

LAURA: "Abandoned" is a better word.

MATT: As she's saying this, you look over and
Scanlan almost looks at you directly and goes

like-- He grabs your wrist and stops you.

LIAM: I use the other hand and I tweak his nose as
hard as I can.

SAM: Not in front of Pike!

(laughter)

MATT: Dagger's retrieved.

TALIESIN: Pike, can you take a look at this cough
before we take a rest?

MARISHA: Yeah, take a look at him, Pike.

TRAVIS: Are we in the tunnel?

MATT: You're in the tunnel right now.

TRAVIS: I grab some of the boulders and cover up
the way we came in. Or just a boulder, and move it

to the mouth of it. Or is it too big?

MATT: You can move a few. There's no boulders
quite large enough to fully close it off. You can

do it; it will take you a little bit of time, but
you can do it.

TRAVIS: Yeah, just to cover it up a little.

MATT: Okay.

ASHLEY: Are there two openings? The one that we
came in, and then the rest of the tunnel?

MATT: The tunnel continues and curves out of
sight, about 50 feet in.

LAURA: But we blocked up the one we came through.

TRAVIS: Oh, Keyleth? Can you make a fucking bush
grow in front of this thing?

LAURA: Or can you put up a wall to where we don't
have to worry?

TRAVIS: So if whoever was going by with those dogs
while we were up in the trees the first night we

got here comes by and sees a hole in the wall...

MARISHA: Okay.

TALIESIN: How many spells do you have left?

MARISHA: (sighs) That's the question. It depends
on if we're going to decide to--

TALIESIN: I think we should take a rest.

LAURA: We have to rest, yes.

MARISHA: I'll think about it.

LAURA: Okay.

MATT: Okay.

ASHLEY: Could I put a Guardian of Faith above us
before we make our--

SAM: Of course you can.

MATT: Let's see how long that lasts for.

TRAVIS: A what?

LAURA: A what?

MATT: Yeah, it lasts for eight hours.

LIAM: We came to a land of evil without--

MATT: Yes, you can.

LAURA: I can't believe we came without Pike,
ever.

ASHLEY: I'm sorry.

LAURA: Pike, stay with us forever.

ASHLEY: Okay.

LIAM: Or at least through next week.

MATT: All right, so as you guys are having this
conversation, Pike grabs her holy symbol for a

second, closes her eyes, and focuses, and the
energy around her, that slightly drifting,

ethereal divine energy, seems to shift away from
her for a second and then coalesce into what looks

like a floating, ghostly, armored entity that
apparates in the air beside her. Her form once

again becomes whole, and she looks towards it and
gives it a nod, and the armored entity seems to

acknowledge with a strange head nod and then turns
towards the inner side of the tunnel and begins

patrolling a small section of the tunnel on its
own.

LAURA: Wow. Well, there you go.

ASHLEY: Okay.

LIAM: I think to myself, oh, that is badass.

(laughter)

LAURA: I smack her on her little gelatin back and
say, good work, Pike.

ASHLEY: (laughs) I go over to Percy. Percy, how
are you?

TALIESIN: I don't know. I've had a cough, and
I'm... complicated.

MARISHA: I did a check on him, Pike. His cough
doesn't seem to be anything natural or

disease-related, so it's nothing like a fever. Not
a real one, anyway.

ASHLEY: Oh boy. Okay. Can I do any extra check
on him?

TRAVIS: Yep. Drop your pants.

MATT: You can make a medicine check on him.

LIAM: You're getting the radiant digit.

ASHLEY: Did anybody already do a medicine check?

MATT: You haven't made one.

ASHLEY: All right. I'll give it a go.

MARISHA: (quietly) Come on, Pike.

ASHLEY: 17.

MATT: 17? Okay. You take a moment to inspect
Percy, looking at his features, checking his

pulse, and generally getting a sense of his life
force in general. His eyes are sunken, his jowls

are shadowed. From what you recall of Percy, he
was always a seemingly-healthy, if on the thin and

pale side, individual. Doubly more so than you've
ever seen him. There is an unrest to his energy,

and there is no physical, natural illness or
discernible disease, but there is something

unsettling about his presence that you've never
sensed before.

ASHLEY: (sighs) Okay. Lesser Restoration, would
that do anything in this situation?

LAURA: What about Greater Restoration?

MATT: You can try it. Lesser or Greater
Restoration.

MARISHA: If you have a Greater Restoration, Pike--
I don't have it on me.

ASHLEY: Okay. I can try it. Can I try it?

MATT: Yeah, if you want to.

ASHLEY: Okay.

MATT: So what are you casting? Lesser or Greater
Restoration?

ASHLEY: I'll do Greater. Do you mind, Percy?

TALIESIN: No. (sighs) No.

MATT: Okay, so Pike reaches up. You grab his face
again, and you close your eyes and concentrate.

Her hands begin to glow with an extremely bright
vibrance, even moreso than her gently luminescent

form right now. It's almost like there's a
blowtorch of radiant energy right around his jaw.

The rest of her form almost seems to put so much
energy into it that her legs begin to dissipate

and vanish, almost like she's putting all of her
energy into this moment, the rest of her body

fading into the grasp.

You feel this warmth wash through your entire
body, and for a brief moment, for the first time

in a number of weeks, there's a moment of serenity
to you. Your eyes instinctually close, and for a

second, you feel like you're standing next to Pike
in a void of darkness.

As that warmth hits, Pike, you sense something
there. You sense a seed of darkness. There's

something in him that you can almost reach out and
grasp, and in that imaginative space, you do. You

thrust your hand out and grab onto it, and it's
taut, and it's fighting, but you pull and wrest

it forth, and as you do, you feel it burn and
dissipate. At which point, both of you guys open

your eyes, breathe in succession with each other.
The energy fades from your hands and your form

goes back to its full, radiant physicality.

You can remove a corruption point from yourself.

SAM: Ooh!

LAURA: Yay!

MARISHA: A corruption point?

MATT: Yes.

SAM: He had two.

LAURA: Okay.

MATT: He's still looking a little sickly, but
definitely improved.

TALIESIN: Did I heal, as well?

MATT: No, you just lose a corruption point.

MARISHA: So does that get rid of one of his weird
ailments?

SAM: He still coughs.

TALIESIN: I do feel better.

MATT: The cough is still there.

LIAM: I watched all of that, and when I saw him
lean back into the earthen wall, I quietly back up

and I'm going to go down the tunnel, like 50 feet,
and see--

MATT: Roll a stealth check.

SAM: Pike, that was incredible.

LIAM: 23.

ASHLEY: What is a corruption point?

MATT: You have no idea what a corruption point is,
but you removed some point of corruption

in his body.

TRAVIS: Can you do me next? My neck has been
hurting for weeks.

ASHLEY: (laughs)

LAURA: I do that to Grog. How's that feel? How's
that feel, big guy?

TRAVIS: Oh, it's much better.

MATT: Almost like a small seed of sentient tumor,
you removed from him.

TALIESIN: Should I randomize which corruption
point vanishes?

MATT: It's a compounding thing.

TALIESIN: Oh, it's compounding.

MATT: Yeah. They're not specific.

ASHLEY: How many do you have?

MATT: You don't know. You have no idea.

ASHLEY: Sorry. I'm asking too many questions.

MATT: Yeah. How dare you? No, it's fine.

ASHLEY: How do you feel, Percy?

TALIESIN: I feel better. I feel more like myself.
(coughs)

LAURA: But he's still coughing.

TALIESIN: I'm still coughing, but I feel much
better. Thank you.

MARISHA: What did you just do to him, Pike?

ASHLEY: I just tried to find out what this is.
This is going to sound like a very weird question,

but does part of you want to hold onto some of
this?

TALIESIN: It could be. I'm not quite finished yet.
We'll see where we are tomorrow.

ASHLEY: Okay.

MATT: While this is happening, Vax has vanished
ahead into the tunnel on his own. You guys look

around and realize that he's nowhere to be seen.

TRAVIS: Fuck him. I go to sleep.

(laughter)

MATT: Okay. Vax, pushing ahead. Thankfully, in the
darkness, you have a little bit of vision, limited

as it is.

LIAM: From the glowing gnome?

MATT: Make a perception check. As you turn around
the corner, you lose the light source.

LIAM: 20.

MATT: Okay. You continue around the edge, and the
tunnel evens out for a bit and then goes straight,

and then curves again to the left. Following that,
it curves again to the right. You can keep going,

or you can head back. You've traversed about 60 or
70 feet in this tunnel.

LIAM: 60 or 70 feet? I'm going to go another 60 or
70 feet.

SAM: Yeah!

LAURA: Where the fuck are you?

MATT: You keep pushing towards this tunnel and
turn to the right. You travel a bit further

forward, and as the tunnel makes another sharp
right turn, you see all of a sudden where the dirt

stops and there is solid, smooth stonework: a
broken portion of what looks like the back side of

a wall of some kind. You see nothing beyond it. It
looks like there is a piece of stone something

pressed against it, and looks like some other
things are stacked, basically covering this

entrance.

LIAM: I would like to just sit down on the ground
and close my eyes and listen for a full minute and

see if I hear anything.

MATT: Make a perception check.

LIAM: 21.

MATT: 21. You take a minute, close your eyes, and
take in all audio you can. Stillness. Quiet.

Nothing.

LIAM: Pretty good. I quietly walk all the way
back, and walk behind the group, and I go, goosh!

Look at that.

LAURA: I swear to Pelor, if you would have gotten
us killed...

MARISHA: Where did you go just then?

LIAM: I was like ten feet around the corner.

SAM: He was right here the whole time.

TALIESIN: I'm going to take care of a little
business outside, and then we'll seal up the

opening.

SAM: Excuse me? What are you doing outside?

TALIESIN: I'm going to charge the Diplomacy
glove.

MATT: It's already sealed. Grog already sealed
it.

TALIESIN: Grog already sealed it?

MATT: Yeah. He pulled rocks into it and closed the
exit.

LAURA: I glare at Vax and I lay down to go to
sleep.

SAM: Can we do it here?

TALIESIN: We can't do it in here because it would
make too much noise.

MARISHA: This room won't fit my storm cloud.

SAM: Wait. Pike, do you have any sort of Cone of
Silence, or anything? Do you have a Cone of

Silence?

MARISHA: Why?

SAM: He's going to make noise.

MARISHA: No, it's not going to work.

LIAM: I've got this. I pick up two small,
roundish, oval-shaped stones from the ground, and

I slide them into Grog's nostrils, plugging them
up.

MATT: Make a sleight-of-hand check. Grog? What's
your passive perception?

TRAVIS: Oh, ten.

MATT: Okay.

SAM: Where's passive perception?

LAURA: It's under all your other attributes.

LIAM: 14.

MATT: Okay. As you step away, there's a (snort) as
your nostrils are stopped up now, and the airflow

is impeded partially from the way you're used to.
You begin breathing heavily through the mouth in

reaction.

TRAVIS: (loud snoring)

LAURA: I wake up to the terrible-- Ugh! What is
that? Grog!

TRAVIS: And I cough, and the stones shoot out of
my nose back at Vax.

(laughter)

TRAVIS: With a high velocity.

LIAM: I'm removing one hit point from my--

MATT: Yeah. One beans you in the side of the
temple.

TRAVIS: Covered in Grog "boge."

(laughter)

TALIESIN: I'm sleeping.

LAURA: And the guardian that Pike conjured is
guarding us?

MATT: Is there, just keeping ever vigil for the
next eight hours.

ASHLEY: Chilling.

LAURA: Let's fucking rest!

MARISHA: Who's still awake?

TRAVIS: Be careful when you go to sleep. Shit
falls in your nose.

MATT: Are you guys taking shifts, or are you
leaving it to the guardian?

TRAVIS: Leave it to the guardian.

SAM: The guardian's got this.

MARISHA: I look at Vax before we go to sleep, and
I say, not going to pull any more jenga moments,

are you?

LIAM: No. No, I'm not.

MARISHA: You sure? Because you just did that
secret walkaround there. We notice when you sneak

off. You do know that, right?

LIAM: No. My rolls are too high; you really don't
notice.

(laughter)

TRAVIS: This is true.

LIAM: But I'm not going anywhere.

MARISHA: Okay. Hey. I was the only one who didn't
give you shit for that. Just keep that in mind.

TRAVIS: I did. You can fuck off and get yourself
killed.

LAURA: You're asleep.

TRAVIS: (snores)

(laughter)

LIAM: I'm going to go sit down by Percy, and what
I'd like to do is watch everybody nod off, and in

20 minutes, nudge him awake.

TALIESIN: (groans)

LIAM: Hi.

TALIESIN: Yes?

LIAM: I want you to get some sleep, but I want to
talk for a minute.

TALIESIN: I don't know if I can do both of those
things, but okay.

LIAM: That's all right. We can separate them. This
thing.

TALIESIN: Yes?

LIAM: What do you really know about it? How do we
know that this thing isn't whispering in Sylas's

ear? What do you really know about this thing?

TALIESIN: I don't know anything about this thing,
except that this last time... this last time was

different than the first time. This last time
didn't... (sighs) This last time, I felt more like

me, and less like I was being drawn somewhere. I
wasn't entirely me, but it's hard to describe. I

felt like I had contained it, a bit. I feel like,
maybe, maybe I can keep it under check.

I don't know.

LIAM: I want to tell you something. We're almost
like family now, and I've seen you do many great

things, and you have earned my trust, but if you
hurt my sister... If you hurt anyone else in this

group inadvertently--

TALIESIN: I would expect no less.

LIAM: All right, then.

TALIESIN: Vax? I have a sister!

LIAM: It's pretty cool, isn't it?

TALIESIN: I'm hoping.

LIAM: Well, hold onto that.

TALIESIN: I shall.

TRAVIS: I let out a little sleep fart.

LIAM: Can I borrow just a pinch of your black
powder?

TALIESIN: No, I'm running really low. No.

LIAM: Just a finger dab?

TALIESIN: No. Oh, god. Yes.

LIAM: I lick my pinky and I put it in, and I
slowly draw a big ballsack on Grog's forehead.

MATT: Roll a sleight-of-hand check.

LIAM: Sure.

TALIESIN: I'm going to sleep before this happens.

LIAM: That's a 23.

MATT: Grog, roll a perception check, just for the
hell of it.

TRAVIS: 18?

MATT: Deftly blended in with the tattoos, unless
those who are aware, there are strange new series

of markings across Grog's face that he may not
notice for quite some time.

LIAM: I did do little hairs on them, as well.

MATT: Oh, how detailed.

LIAM: Well, it grows here, so it grows there.

MATT: You don't know. (laughs)

LIAM: I don't know. Or do I?

MATT: Oh! All right. You guys go to sleep?

LIAM: He goes to sleep. I'm going to do my duty
with Keyleth for a watch.

LAURA: No, Keyleth went to sleep.

LIAM: I thought we were both staying up.

MATT: You look back over at Keyleth, and she's
asleep.

LIAM: All right. I'll watch everybody.

MATT: Are you going to sleep at all?

LIAM: I'll stay up for two hours.

MATT: You stay up for the two hours. There doesn't
seem to be much incident whatsoever. There's that

gentle draft coming through from some of the
cracks in the stones that were set up to block the

entryway. It was not a perfect hole, of course,
just enough to not arouse suspicion. There is cold

air seeping through. You can hear the rain muffled
in the distance, and there's a little bit of a

leak coming through from where the stones were set
up to block the entrance. Eventually, sleep comes

to you. It is a strange lulling sound. Everyone
sleeps, relatively comfortably for being in the

middle of a stone tunnel.

You have dreams again. Dreams, images, flashes.
Flashes of your family hanging from the Sun Tree.

It never happened, but your mind creates the image
for you. You see flashes of your sister screaming

out to you as the arrows take her in the chest.
You see a flash of what looks like a skull, a

skull face. The skull brings itself to where you
focus on one of its ocular sockets, and blood

begins to pour from the socket. Flash to black. A
familiar voice rings out again:

"Do not forget our deal."

Cold morning air comes to you as you all slowly
come to consciousness. Uncomfortable, kinks in

your back. It's not the best place to sleep, but
the bare minimum of the long rest is achieved

throughout the evening. As you all eventually come
to and check and make sure everyone's okay, you

awake, a little unnerved.

SAM: I look around for Pike.

LAURA: Is she still here?

MATT: Pike is just waking up. She's still there.
Her image, you can see, in her sleeping state, is

diminished. When she comes to consciousness, it
almost flares up again. Her presence here is

purely a force of will, and that connection is a
very tenuous one.

I would like everyone to make a constitution
check.

LAURA: Constitution?

MARISHA: Corruption, man.

LAURA: Yeah, you're right. I'm going to go sparkle
stone.

LIAM: Natural 20.

MARISHA: Son of a fuck. Natural one. My third of
the evening.

SAM: Five.

MATT: Five.

TRAVIS: 17.

LAURA: 16.

LIAM: 20.

TALIESIN: 22.

MATT: All righty.

LAURA: You rolled a one, Keyleth?

MARISHA: I had bad dreams.

MATT: The DC on this is not as high. Everyone but
Keyleth passed. Keyleth, as you wake up, there's a

general cold sensation within your body, and you
feel like there's really no way to keep warm, no

matter how hard you try and bundle up. You even
use a bit of Druidcraft to create a bit of

sparkling warm fire that you use to keep your
hands set, and the cold doesn't seem to go away.

MARISHA: I keep my hands aflame and kind of rub
myself.

MATT: Okay. Your hands are shaking unnaturally,
and there's a general chatter to your teeth. You

have disadvantage on any dexterity ability
checks.

MARISHA: Glad I don't use a bow.

MATT: Skill checks. Wouldn't affect attacks. I
will say it doesn't really affect initiative, per

se, but if you were to try to do any delicate
handwork, you would have disadvantage.

LAURA: Should we, before we get this shit going,
have a feast? A big fucking feast?

SAM: We should have a feast.

MARISHA: That sounds good, yeah.

LAURA: We still have a couple of feasts left.

MARISHA: I will say, if we choose to feast, I will
not be able to Sunbeam.

SAM: Well, that is a problem.

LAURA: Should we have feasted last night?

MARISHA: I couldn't. I burned my Sunbeam. We
couldn't have done it.

SAM: Pike can't help in any way?

MARISHA: I don't know if Pike--

ASHLEY: I don't have that ability.

MARISHA: Does she have access to sixth-level spells?
We haven't leveled Pike up in a while.

ASHLEY: I don't know if I've--

MATT: You've gained a modicum of experience while
you were away from the party, just at a slower

rate, so you are at a lower level than the rest of
the party. Not by a terrible amount, but you'd be

level 11 by now, probably.

MARISHA: So she would have a sixth-level spell.

LAURA: So she has Feast.

MARISHA: It depends on if clerics have it.

MATT: Clerics do have access to Heroes' Feast.

ASHLEY: Let me check.

MARISHA: But that would also mean Pike burning her
6th-level spell slot.

MATT: Correct. So you would have one 6th-level
spell. If you wanted to, you could prepare that as

your prepared 6th-level spell for the day. That is
your choice, Pike.

LAURA: We get saves on all wisdom throws, which
might come in handy when we're fighting against

things that control our minds.

ASHLEY: Oh dang. I haven't even looked through
these yet.

LIAM: While the fancy people are talking, I walk
over to Grog and say, big man. You've got mud or

something on your face. Come here. And I take my
hand and I wipe across his forehead and smear out

what I did.

TRAVIS: Don't fucking touch me!

LIAM: Sorry.

(laughter)

TRAVIS: You're all cuddly in the morning and shit.
God, get it together.

LIAM: Sorry.

TRAVIS: I lean over to Vex and I go, how do I
look?

LAURA: You look lovely, dear.

TRAVIS: Damn right.

SAM: I have questions for us, while Pike is
looking up her spells. First question is: how on

earth are we supposed to send a signal to the rest
of the town when we're in a tunnel?

LAURA: We can open it up.

SAM: From where?

LAURA: From here.

TALIESIN: Once we're inside the castle, we'll be
able to--

MARISHA: I can Skywrite again.

LAURA: You could Skywrite right now, as soon as we
decide to start moving.

MARISHA: I just need to move the boulders a bit.

LAURA: Yeah. Open the rocks up. People start
attacking the castle; we come from the other side,

from within.

SAM: Is that our plan? We're going to say,
"Rebels, go," wait a while, and then attack?

TALIESIN: Not even wait a while. We'll go in.

LAURA: Go in at the same time.

LIAM: We throw the signal to the sky and go up
this tunnel.

SAM: Shouldn't we wait a little?

LAURA: Wait like five minutes to let them rabble up
and start running.

SAM: Remember, last time I was supposed to create
a diversion...

LAURA: Yeah, but then you took down a whole
house.

TALIESIN: Well, we had a Grog.

SAM: Believe me, I was amazing, but maybe we
should incite the rebellion, wait a half hour, and

then go.

TALIESIN: Let's see if we can keep civilian
casualties to a reasonably small amount.

MARISHA: We're the most capable people in this
town right now.

SAM: Well, that's another question. We are. Does
one of us need to go out there and lead the

rebels?

LAURA AND TALIESIN: No.

TALIESIN: We're fine.

SAM: What do you mean, no?

MARISHA: They've got Yennan. He's awesome. He was
a badass cleric.

SAM: If he survived the night.

TRAVIS: What if they don't take the rebels
seriously because we're not with them? Maybe one

of us should go.

SAM: Maybe Pike should.

TALIESIN: I think it's going to take all of us to
defeat the Briarwoods.

LAURA: I think we all need to go together.

TALIESIN: Once the Briarwoods are gone, I think a
lot of this will get a lot easier.

TRAVIS: We could meet in the middle.

SAM: I'm just saying, if Pike is fading on us, it
might be best to send her out to lead the rebels.

LAURA: No, she's not fading on us, you dick! She's
coming with us.

LIAM: Scanlan, we're going to make a leap of faith
that Pike can stay.

SAM: And if, in the horribly unfortunate scenario
where she can't. Pike, can you leave us anything?

LAURA: A Heroes' Fucking Feast.

SAM: A potion. A spell. A prayer. A symbol. A
"siggle." Anything?

MATT: A sigil.

SAM: Oh. Oh, a sigil. I said it wrong.

LIAM: Oh, prepare to be GIF'd, Mercer.

MATT: (laughs) Yeah.

ASHLEY: Wow. There's some amazing-- just a side
note, there's one called Heal that can heal a

person 70 hit points.

MATT: True.

ASHLEY: Just like that.

LAURA: That's pretty awesome.

MATT: So, Heroes' Feast, Heal. You've got to pick
one.

LAURA: Heroes' Feast!

SAM: Heroes' Feast raises all of our hit points
higher.

LIAM: Way to humble-brag, Pike.

LAURA: It makes us more badass.

ASHLEY: Yeah, let's do the Heroes' Feast, then.

MARISHA: We're going to eat up? Fuck yeah.

MATT: All right, so mark off your other thousand gold
chalice that you had purchased beforehand. I think

you're out now, aren't you?

MARISHA: Yes, I believe we need to go shopping.

LAURA: You needed one more. You had one more, I
thought.

MATT: She has one more. It's being used right now.
She'd purchased two before you left.

MARISHA: Pike, you wouldn't happen to have a
thousand gold-worth chalice on you, would you?

LIAM: Only astrally.

MARISHA: Never mind.

MATT: I would think probably not.

MARISHA: Don't worry about it.

MATT: You hand over the chalice to Pike. Pike, you
take the chalice and you set it down before you.

You mark a symbol in the dirt in the center of
this tunnel in the shape of a giant rectangular

table. You take your holy symbol, remove it from
your neck, and thrust it into the ground at the

head of the table. With that, dust kicks up as
seemingly out of nowhere, this giant table and

feast just (fwoosh) rises.

LAURA: Oh my god, is it a holy feast? Do we all do
holy damage now?

MATT: No, but holy shit, it's delicious.

TRAVIS: (laughing) "Holy shit, it's delicious."

(laughter)

MATT: It is very good.

LIAM: Best line of the night!

MATT: Benches around and available. You all sit
around it and dig into the most delightful

mid-tunnel, cold sub-castle breakfast you've ever
had.

LIAM: Ice cream.

LAURA: Give me that pencil.

MATT: So you guys all, for the next 24 hours, have
advantage on wisdom saving throws, and I believe

it's 2d6? Is that what it was, Marisha?

MARISHA: 2d10 or 2d8.

MATT: I'll look it up right here.

TALIESIN: Wisdom advantage.

LAURA: I think it's 2d12.

MARISHA: 2d12?

MATT: Heroes' Feast. Nope, 2d10. Everyone, roll
2d10 and add that temporary hit points to your HP

value. That includes you, too, Pike. So roll 2d10
and that's temporary hit points on top of your

regular hit points. Meaning once those go away,
they cannot be healed back.

LIAM: Still not cracking a hundred.

TALIESIN: Nice!

SAM: And advantage on wisdom saves.

MARISHA: And we're immune to fear.

MATT: Yep.

SAM: Seriously?

MARISHA: And poison, I think.

MATT: Yep. You're immune to poison.

MARISHA: Immune to fear, immune to poison, and
immune to what else?

MATT: And you get advantage on all wisdom saving
throws. Heroes' Feast, motherfucker!

LIAM: Immune to fear, and what was it?

MATT: Immune to fear and poison. Oh, such a good
spell. Very expensive, but damn

if it hasn't been clutch.

MARISHA: I'm going to move out some rocks. Just
enough where I can peek out. Are we ready to go?

SAM: Go? Go where? What?

LAURA: To do this!

MARISHA: I'm just going to start this. We can talk
as we go.

SAM: You've got to go outside first.

MARISHA: I'm going outside.

SAM: Okay.

MARISHA: I'm going outside. Is it still rainy?

MATT: It is not raining, currently. The sky is
still cloudy and dark.

MARISHA: Still cloudy?

MATT: Yeah.

MARISHA: Okay, so I take the clouds and I darken
them and do a giant de Rolo crest that expands

over the whole city.

MATT: Okay, so with Grog's help, you move some of
the rocks out of the way. You get a visual of the

sky. You lean out, focus, cast your Skywrite
spell-- mark that spell off-- and as you coalesce

the clouds to be extremely dark and to form the de
Rolo crest symbol in the sky. As that happens, you

begin to see, about two minutes later, little
beacon lights begin to ignite across the city:

lanterns and torches being lit. It looks like, as
it is probably an hour past dawn, that the

surviving remainder of the Whitestone rebellion is
raring itself to attack.

LAURA: We should have sung "One Day More."

SAM: Well, we still can. (laughs) Before we do
this, I love you all, and I wish us all the best

of luck today. I especially love Pike, and I'm so
happy she's with us for this. If some of us don't

return, I think that the glory of what we're doing
today, and the justice of what we're doing today,

has been worth it, and Percy, I hope you get some
sort of redemption in all of this.

TALIESIN: (sighs)

MARISHA: To the de Rolos.

SAM: To the de Rolos.

MARISHA: To Whitestone.

TALIESIN: To Whitestone.

LAURA: To Vox Machina.

MARISHA: To Vox Machina.

MATT: You may raise your glass and drink if you'd
like, Ashley.

ASHLEY: Oh, thanks!

MATT: There we go. (laughs)

MARISHA: Do that Ben and Jerry's pint.

(laughter)

MATT: As you guys finish your drink, the Heroes'
Feast slowly sinks back into the dirt, leaving the

empty tunnel before you. The slight cold sound of
drifting wind through the now freshly barricaded

rock exit of the secret passageway begins to reach
your ears. What do you wish to do?

TRAVIS: Do we want to check the wall?

LIAM: I'm taking point. I want to check out that
wall that I sat right in front of.

SAM: Let's all go down the tunnel.

LIAM: Yep. Come on, everyone.

MARISHA: I light up my hands for light.

MATT: Okay.

LAURA: Very quietly down the tunnel.

MATT: Using the veritable torchlight from
Keyleth's burning hands, you guys press down the

hallway, Vax taking point. Eventually, you get to
the end of the hallway. There's a portion of the

stone wall that has been chiseled out. It's not
very smooth; it's rough in the way it was

constructed, but there is definitely about a
foot-thick wall that would go to the right and

left of you in the dirt that has been chiseled and
broken through to reveal this passageway that you

guys are traversing.

Immediately on the other side of this opening, now
that you have a better look at it, it looks to be

some sort of stone sculpture or statue of some
kind.

ASHLEY: (sneezes)

LAURA AND MATT: Bless you.

MATT: You see what looks to be the back side of
some armored soldier, but it's all carved from

some sort of marble. At a closer look, too, Percy,
you see it's carved from the white stone that is

actually mined in this--

TALIESIN: Do I recognize this part of the
passage?

MATT: You do. This statue is one of the large
things used to hide this exit, and it is normally

shoved out of the way. There are a few other boxes
immediately adjacent to it, and from what little

bit you can glance past it, it looks like this
section is used for storage of some kind and is

filled with whatever random crates and whatever
needed to be placed down here to keep it out of

the way.

TRAVIS: Can someone check to make sure that it's
just a statue?

MARISHA: Can I do an arcana check to see?

MATT: Sure.

MARISHA: If it's magical? Magic trap?

LIAM: I'm going to perception it. 20 on
perception.

MARISHA: Natural 20. Making up for those fucking
ones.

MATT: There you go. As you step up and inspect the
back of the statue, the stonework is very well

done, and there is a very, very faint magical
essence to this statue. It's so miniscule, and the

only reason you're able to pick it up is you're so
fine-tuned to seeking out that presence. It

doesn't have a specific form; it doesn't have a
specific school of magic applied to it. It just

has a general, faint magical aura.

MARISHA: Is it carved out of the rock?

MATT: It's carved out of the white stone.

MARISHA: Got you. But it's not magically trapped?

MATT: Correct. It doesn't appear to have any sort of
strong magical presence for a specific purpose.

MARISHA: And if we touch it, we're not going to be
possessed or something.

MATT: You don't think so.

MARISHA: I don't think so.

LIAM: I silently signal to everyone, and I slowly
stealth around the statue to check out the room.

MATT: Okay. It's all pressed against the wall. The
widest gap is about that wide. You're going to

have to push or shove things out of the way. All
the crates are pushed up against it, blocking the

whole exit.

LAURA: Is it too big for you? Do you need maybe
somebody stronger?

LIAM: I reach out past my sister and pat him on
the shoulder.

TRAVIS: Yes?

LAURA: (whispering) I think you're up.

TRAVIS: Where? Up where?

LAURA: I think you need to move the fucking
statue.

TRAVIS: Oh!

LAURA: Quietly.

TRAVIS: (whispering) Oh. And I gently start to
push the statue out of the way.

MATT: Make a strength check.

LAURA: Oh no! Really?

TRAVIS: That's a one.

MATT: Natural one?

MARISHA: I'm sorry.

MATT: Grog cracks his fingers and grins, stepping
up. Goes to push the statue, and then pop!

Something in your lower back gives, and (groans).

LIAM: Peacock a little more for us, please.

MATT: The air escapes your lungs, and it's been a
long time since this injury has crept up, but you

threw your back out a little.

TRAVIS: I slide down and go, you know, I'm so
tired of (groans) taking all the glory. Why don't

you guys--

LAURA: Trinket? Trinket tries to--

MATT: Trinket, who, at this point in time, by the
way guys, takes up a large portion of the

tunnel--

LAURA: Yeah, he wants to get the fuck out of
here.

MATT: Pushes past you guys and turns around and
puts his rump against it and starts backing up

into it. (moans) Go ahead and roll a d20.

TALIESIN: Please defeat this door.

MARISHA: Fucking doors!

LIAM: (whispering) Can you please fix Grog's
back?

TALIESIN: Doors of Whitestone.

LAURA: Doors of fucking Whitestone! Oh god.

MATT: Add two to the roll.

LAURA: Only two?!

MATT: Yeah.

LAURA: I don't add his full strength? It doesn't
fucking matter, because I rolled a three.

MARISHA: Doors.

MATT: (laughing) Perpetually defeated by
passageways and entrances.

TALIESIN: Curse you, doors!

SAM: I've got this, guys.

LIAM: Wait, before we use-- listen. This could
potentially be humiliating for all of us. Before

we expend any of our arcane abilities, please let
us all at least try and fail before you take out

the Hand.

TALIESIN: Let's all push.

LAURA: As much as we can.

SAM: Wait, why are we pushing this thing?

LIAM: Let's do the one and a half elf push, shall
we? You, you, and me.

LAURA: And Percy.

TALIESIN: I'll join.

SAM: I will push, as well.

LIAM: All the average-shaped people.

LAURA: I'm rolling my giant foam dice for this.

MATT: All right. Everyone but Grog can help in
this. Grog, you're out for this one.

SAM: I'm helping.

MARISHA: He's helping.

SAM: I am not helping.

MARISHA: Ooh, I rolled a 19!

LIAM: One, eight.

SAM: 11.

MARISHA: Wait, is this just a strength check?

MATT: Yeah, adding your strength.

MARISHA: Straight strength?

LAURA: One.

MARISHA: 21.

TALIESIN: 12.

MARISHA: (grunts)

MATT: As you give it a good solid try, the force
of you guys combined; there is just a lot of

weight pressed up against this statue with the
crates on the other side. This storage room is

very full, and you find Vox Machina, for all of
its journeys, battles, victories, and celebratory

events, bested by a room of clutter. Pike, did you
want to give it a shot?

ASHLEY: Yeah.

MARISHA: I turn around and I'm still pushing.

SAM: Wait, Pike's going to do this?

MATT: Okay, Pike. Roll a d20 and add your strength
modifier.

LIAM: Come on, Pike.

SAM: Doors, man.

MARISHA: Charge at it.

LAURA: This is like the lid of a jar; everybody's
loosened it up, and Pike's going to--

SAM: What?

ASHLEY: 19.

MATT: Plus your strength modifier?

ASHLEY: I rolled an 18 and my strength modifier is
one.

MATT: All right. As you guys all take a moment to
have this discussion, Pike steps forward, her hair

drifting behind her, buoyant in the air.

LIAM: Somebody draw it. Please draw it.

MATT: She steps up and centers herself. Sets her
shield to the side, puts her mace down, closes her

eyes, puts her hands on the statue and just
(grunts) begins to shove and push. As she does,

you guys hear (stone scraping noise).

LAURA: Seriously?

TALIESIN: I could have done that.

MATT: The crates begin to push and move out of the
way, and she pushes the statue a good six feet

ahead, pushing some of it out of the way, leaving
a little bit of opening and a visual walkway into

this basement area.

LAURA: Look at that.

MARISHA: It must be nice to have the strength of
Sarenrae.

LAURA: Pike, you saved the day. Again.

SAM: Mrs. Shorthalt, you are amazing.

ASHLEY: Whoa, Scanlan.

TALIESIN: Well, fine.

MATT: Trinket gives a (grumpy grunt).

SAM: Pike, will you carry me over the threshold?

(laughter)

LIAM: Wait! I fistbump Pike, pop my hood up, and
then quietly go into the room.

LAURA: Not yet!

LIAM: Yeah! I'm the best person to do this.

TRAVIS: Can I have Trinket step on my lower back,
please?

LAURA: Trinket's really good at that.

MATT: Trinket is really good at massages. Trinket
begins going, (grunts) stepping on you (cracking)

and you hear--

TRAVIS: (groans) Thank god.

MATT: I'm going to have you roll a stealth
check--

LIAM: 29 for stealth.

MATT: With disadvantage.

LIAM: Disadvantage?

MATT: Because of Grog's moaning at the massage.

LIAM: That's fine. That balances out, and my first
roll was a 29 total.

MATT: (laughs) Okay. All right. You disappear in.
It's very dark in here; there's one sconce that

appears to be giving a bit of flickering light
across the way. As you step out of this chamber

into what looks to be two paths that go to the
right and the left and then curve and disappear.

Right across from you appears to be a central room
or space. You can make a little bit of visual

around you, but best you can see is there are a
series of bars. Like cells, arranged across some

of the walls here. You appear to have stumbled
upon the subterranean

Whitestone dungeon or prison.

LIAM: Can you help me understand the makeup of it
again? You said two passages-- one to the left,

one to the right-- and a chamber directly ahead,
between them?

MATT: Correct.

LIAM: I know we've got two paths, but he said
there's a room, as well.

MATT: Here, this will be a good perspective for
you.

SAM: Oh, you just happen to have the room drawn?

MATT: That's where you guys came through.

LIAM: Yeah?

MATT: And see this path here?

LAURA: Yeah.

MATT: And here. And there are cells on this side.

MARISHA: Is there anything good in the storage
room that we're in?

MATT: Oh, you're in the storage room?

MARISHA: Yeah.

MATT: Make an investigation check.

LAURA: Yeah, I start opening up crates.

MATT: Okay.

MARISHA: That's not great. Eight.

MATT: There's a lot of broken building materials.

LAURA: 18.

MATT: 18? Okay. Looking around, you see there's
work materials. There's pickaxes, there's

crowbars, there's things that are used in various
tool-based means throughout the uses of a castle.

Most of them are for grounds repair and things
like that; nothing particularly interests you.

There are a few crates that have residual
whitestone in them, but it appears that most of it

has been used or taken elsewhere.

LAURA: Like whitestone dust?

MATT: Like dust and small rocks here and there.

LAURA: Can I gather some up in a bag?

MATT: Sure.

MARISHA: Yeah, I pick up a few pieces too.

MATT: Okay. You, seeing both of those paths--

LIAM: So both paths, and there's a room closer to
me, right?

MATT: Yeah, around the way to your left, you see
that's the source of a little bit of sconce

torchlight.

LIAM: All right. Into my little earring, I say,
(whispers) I'm not doing anything fucking

crazy, I'm just going to go ahead. This is the
only thing I can do. And I move quietly into the

close chamber.

MATT: Okay, as you're moving forward, you hear
behind you the sound of crates shifting, lids

moving, because searching through a room of large
clutter and crates makes noise. You take a few

steps and that happens and you're like, and you
hear echoing from around a corner a voice go,

"Hello? Is someone there?" This really crackly dry
voice.

LIAM: I stop moving entirely and I just wait.

MATT: "Hello?"

(laughter)

MATT: Silence.

LIAM: And can I hear anything besides that?
There's nothing else I hear

besides that in this room?

MATT: From what you can tell, no.

LIAM: There's no dim light or anything?

MATT: The only dim light is coming from around
that corner, from the source of where that sound

seemed to come.

LIAM: Okay. I should be able to see, then, if
there's dim light. Up to 60 feet.

MATT: Right. Nothing immediately in your visual
perspective. If you go all the way to the edge, you

can look past the corner if you want.

LIAM: Okay. I slowly back up away from that and
creep up the hall and stop at the corner before it

turns and I just lean my head out and I listen.

MATT: Okay. Perception check.

LIAM: 27.

MATT: Okay. Listening for a second, you hear what
sounds like some shifting, like a body shifting

over some sort of low crumbling. Sounds almost
like grasses or hay or some sort of soft bedding

is being shifted a little bit. You hear a clink of
metal of some kind, you're not sure quite what the

source is, and a couple of other small shifting
and grinding sounds of metal. Comes to a halt.

LIAM: Got it. So I tiptoe all the way back to
everybody and say, listen. Stop doing that.

Stop. There's two passageways up the way. I think
we're in some sort of dungeon--

TALIESIN: I could probably confirm this.

MATT: Very much so. This is where you woke up,
where Cassandra pulled you--

TALIESIN: This is absolutely the dungeon.

LIAM: I had surmised as much. There's possibly an
old person in one, and then sounds of something,

so both of the chambers are occupied. I came back
to confer with you instead of going off on my own

because that gets me in trouble.

LAURA: Hey, thank you so much.

LIAM: One time only.

SAM: Let's go talk to the old prisoner.

LIAM: What do you want to do?

MARISHA: Are we sure they're prisoners?

LIAM: Do you want to talk to the possibly old
person with the crazy eyes thing?

TRAVIS: Shouldn't we ask Percy what he wants to
do?

MATT: You right now are staring off into space,
because you recall the last time you were here you

woke up in a cell next to a cell that contained a
pile of bodies of previously related members of

your family before Cassandra ushered you out.

TALIESIN: I would like to start making my way in
that direction.

MATT: Okay. So as you guys are having this
conversation, Percy just starts walking--

LIAM: Percy, you probably want to take out one of
those contraptions of yours.

LAURA: Wait, before he goes I cast Pass Without a
Trace on everyone.

MATT: Okay. Everyone who wishes to be stealthy can
be stealthy.

LIAM: I'm rolling along with Percival.

TALIESIN: I'm being stealthy.

MATT: Okay. Everyone roll stealth.

ASHLEY: Me too, I'm super stealthy.

MATT: We'll keep with your consistent roll,
currently.

SAM: 15.

MATT: Okay. With plus ten?

SAM: That's with plus ten.

LIAM: It's 30 this time.

MATT: All right.

MARISHA: 21.

LAURA: Add ten! Because I cast Pass Without a
Trace.

TALIESIN: 21.

LIAM: Oh, 40 this time. Only with her.

MATT: Only it would be like (whoosh) what'd you
get, Grog?

TRAVIS: 26.

MATT: Okay. You guys all move as a group forward.
Pike, what'd you get? Yeah, roll your stealth,

girl. Plus ten to it.

ASHLEY: (laughs) I have three.

LAURA: But plus ten!

LIAM: Can I give her seven of mine?

MATT: No. You guys push down the left hallway or
the right one?

TALIESIN: I'm heading towards whichever cell had
been mine.

MATT: The cell that would've been yours would be
kind of on the opposite side of the room from you,

on the other side. The fastest way would be taking
the left path towards the light source.

TALIESIN: The left path.

MATT: Okay. So you guys head that direction, kind
of following Percy--

SAM: That's not the direction of the voice.

LAURA: Yes, it is.

SAM: Oh, it is?

MATT: Yeah. You move towards the light. You guys
turn around the corner and look. Not in the cell

you were in, but across the way, because there are
six cells, three on each side of the hallway

facing each other, and on the far cell on the
outside-wall side of it, you see there's a torch

sconce that is lit and just slowly crackling. It's
almost reached ember period, like it's about to be

changed out, probably. And inside you see, sitting
just squat on the ground, in a cell by herself,

this woman facing away, back up against the bars
and that's all you can see.

LIAM: Drawing a blade just in case.

LAURA: As I approach I put my finger over my mouth
and look at her. Can she see us?

LIAM: Looking away.

MATT: She's facing away from you guys, her back is
up against the bars. She's kinda--

SAM: Psst. Oi. Hello.

TALIESIN: Shh.

MATT: Turns her head and looks over, and it's the
first time you see her face. Much older woman,

probably in her early seventies or so, but
seventies living in a not very-- seventy years in

a hard life, so very deep, sunken wrinkles. The
skin is very weathered. Her hair is mostly

whitish-gray with a little bit of you can see
remaining reds and browns in it, at some point she

might've had much brighter-colored hair. Her
clothing is pretty ragged, and she leans over and

looks to you guys, squinting her eyes in the
darkness.

SAM: If you want to get out of here, don't speak
loudly.

MATT: "All right. Who is this?"

LAURA: Who are you?

SAM: We're here to help.

MATT: She's still kind of looking out into the
darkness. She can't see you guys really. She just

hears your voices.

LAURA: Who are you?

MATT: "Who are you?" She's being very guarded
right now and very spooked.

LIAM: In the darkness, I hand, stupidly, my
Flametongue dagger to Scanlan again and push him

forward with it.

SAM: I hold it up to my face. I grin a big grin to
her and I say, hello. We're friends. We're here

to bust you out of this place. Will you tell us
who you are?

MATT: "I'm Gloria. Gloria Cyn."

SAM: Gloria Cyn?

MATT: "How'd you find your way in here?"

SAM: We are ninjas.

MATT: She looks very confused at you. "Are you
friend or foe? Do you work with the Briarwoods?"

SAM: No, we are against the Briarwoods and all
they stand for. We're here to save you, the prisoners,

the village. Everyone we can.

MATT: Do all of you step forward at this point, or
is it just you?

LIAM: Just him. Mr. High Charisma.

SAM: I am not alone. I have friends with me. Some
of whom look quite scary, so don't be alarmed if a

bear stands right behind me.

MATT: "A bear?"

SAM: It's a good bear. It's the best kind of
bear.

LAURA: He's the cutest.

MATT: "Who is that?"

SAM: That's my friend Vex. Vex, come forward.

LAURA: I walk up a little bit behind Scanlan and I
insight check her to see what

the fuck is going on.

MATT: Okay, roll insight.

LAURA: I don't know, they've all been betraying
me! Don't you. Oh, that's good! 24.

MATT: 24, okay. I mean, she's in a cell in a
dungeon and looks to be fairly spooked but also

guarded. Not much to read beyond the fact that
she's an old woman in a dungeon.

TRAVIS: No?

MATT: I mean, she's definitely staying guarded in
the circumstance, but you're not picking up any

sort of strange animosity.

SAM: Why have you been locked up?

MATT: And all these voices are coming out of the
darkness, she's like, "I came up from Dryna to ask

"why the waters are growing brackish. Fish float
downstream, dead, and taste of ash these days.

"Delilah laughed and threw me in here, saying I'm a
fair better offering than a fisherman. That's the

"last I know. I've been here for over a week."

LAURA: A week, that's it?

TALIESIN: I would say it's almost safer for her
down here for now.

LAURA: Yeah. So here's the thing.

SAM: We're great with old people.

TRAVIS: They don't take prisoners.

LAURA: There's a lot of violence that's going to
happen.

SAM: We should unlock that, maybe we should unlock
this cage.

TALIESIN: No.

LAURA: No. We should keep her in here for now.

TRAVIS: Yeah, they don't take prisoners, they
don't take prisoners. Why isn't she fucking dead?

Or undead?

SAM: She can run out the tunnel that we came in.

MARISHA: Yeah, why don't we unlock her and just
let her book for it?

LIAM: Wait. If we destroy the Briarwoods, it will
be no trouble to come down here and let anyone out

who's down here. If she's who she says she is, we
don't know.

SAM: Madam. Good madam. When you were brought into
the castle, can you tell us anything about where

you were brought? Were you brought before the
queen-- she is a queen, right?

LAURA: No, she's a lady.

SAM: Lady. Were you brought before the Lady, and
if so, in what room? Where was it? How big was it?

How many guards were in there?

MATT: "They brought me into the main grand throne
chamber to speak with the lord and lady. They

"ushered me through the halls and we waited about
an hour for them to arrive. Apparently they were

"busy elsewhere. There was a brief discussion. They
laughed at me and threw me in here."

SAM: You have beautiful eyes. Did those eyes see
anything in that grand throne room? Entrances or

exits? Large windows? Anything?

TALIESIN: I know all of them. I did live here.

SAM: Oh, fuck. Never mind, Matt. "Were there any
guards? Many guards? Lots of guards?"

MATT: "There were many guards. I'd heard of dark
things happening in this castle, but when I was

"escorted through, I saw things in the courtyard,
shambling things, things that should not be alive.

"Tens, dozens. I did not feel right at that moment,
and then, well, my fate was brought into this

"terrible cell." She kind of looks about.

LAURA: Has anybody been coming down and feeding
you?

MATT: "Every now and then."

LAURA: Not on a regular basis?

MATT: "Every day or so they bring enough to
subsist on."

SAM: As she's talking, I'm going to see if there's
any sort of arcana or magical incantation on her,

or any sort of possession. Is that something I can
check for?

MATT: Do you have the Detect Magic spell?

SAM: No.

MARISHA: I do.

SAM: Can I just do an arcana check, or is that
not--

MATT: I mean, what are you--

SAM: I don't know.

MATT: Arcana's more inspecting a close area to see
if there is the nature of an arcane enchantment or

something on it, you don't actually like sense
it.

SAM: All right. Then I do nothing. I sing a little
song.

MATT: What are you doing, Keyleth?

MARISHA: Nothing.

LAURA: Can't detect magic?

MARISHA: I can dispel magic.

LAURA: Try it.

TALIESIN: No, because that's a spell.

MARISHA: It's a spell. It's a 3rd-level spell.

SAM: She's fine. Let's leave her.

MARISHA: I mean, I can do it.

TRAVIS: Why is she not dead? Why is she not
undead?

TALIESIN: They were going to feed her to
something.

MARISHA: Yeah, they were going to eat her.

SAM: Let's feed her to Trinket and go on.

LIAM: They're not much, but I have rations and a
waterskin. I toss them through

the bars of her cell.

MATT: She grabs them as soon as they come through
the cell and grasps them to herself.

TALIESIN: We'll be back.

MATT: "You're very kind."

MARISHA: Do you know if anyone else is in the
dungeon down here with you?

MATT: "I have not seen or heard anyone else.
Occasional wails, soft, mournful moans, but I stay

"quiet. I stay very still."

LAURA: Hide in the corner. Stay quiet.

MATT: "Would you please let me out?"

TRAVIS: No, you're fucking staying in that cell,
and if things go bad upstairs it won't matter if

you're in there or not.

SAM: If you please.

TALIESIN: There are things upstairs that we can't
protect you from that

we are going to deal with first.

LIAM: And there are creatures on the road and in
the woods and quite frankly you're safer right

now. If we do what we have come here to do, we
will come back for you.

TALIESIN: There is war outside right now.

LAURA: Don't you worry.

MATT: "If there is war, then that's the time to
leave, when there is distraction."

SAM: Can you raise a blade? Can you fight?

MATT: "I can run. I made it up here north, didn't
I? I've lived in these lands for quite some time,

"I know how to survive."

LIAM: We can come back for her.

MATT: "Please. Please don't leave me. I don't know
what's going on."

LAURA: This is awful.

TRAVIS: Is it? Leave her.

MARISHA: Vax, you're the only one who can pick
the lock. We don't have keys. I'm assuming she's

locked in there, right?

MATT: You can check the cell door.

SAM: Let's leave her. Ma'am, you must believe me
when we say you are much safer here than above.

LIAM: Her fate is intertwined with our own. If she
leaves, she has a very good chance of being

killed. If we go forward and succeed, we come back
and she lives. If we go forward and she dies,

she's where she is. This is the best place for
her.

MATT: "At least take the fate into my own hands. I
don't mean any wrong here, but I have no reason to

"really trust you, either. How can I show my trust,
how can I--"

LAURA: You can be quiet.

MATT: "I can be quiet. Do not leave me here to
waste and die. What if you don't succeed? What if

"you fall in whatever folly you're making away into
this castle for and I waste away down here myself?

"Please."

LIAM: I've just given you food and water. We'll be
back within 24 hours. Come on. We're going.

TRAVIS: Hold up.

MATT: "Please."

SAM: Ma'am. Here. I'm giving you a magical whip.
It will protect you against anyone who comes down

here. Just hold it up and it will chase away any
demons.

MATT: You're the only one who's out of the light
now?

SAM: Yeah.

LIAM: He was the first one out of the light.

MATT: Right, but everyone else is still in the
shadow, all these voices coming at her.

LAURA: She can see me because I went down towards
Scanlan.

MATT: Okay. She steps a little closer to you as
you're holding the whip out, and she grabs your

hand with her left hand and kind of pulls it in
and goes, "Please. Don't leave me here. I can fend

"for my own. Just don't leave me here."

TRAVIS: I step forward now behind Scanlan. Super
fucking intimidating. If things go well upstairs,

we'll be back. If when we leave, you make a peep,
you won't ever again.

MATT: Make an intimidation check.

TALIESIN: Damn, Grog.

LIAM: Roll intimidation.

TRAVIS: 14.

MATT: She shrinks back. She still hasn't looked
away from you, and she kind of looks at you for a

second and (heavy sigh) sits down, frustrated, at
the bottom of the cell and just, "Then go. Leave

"me. Useless."

TALIESIN: (whispering) Let's check the other
side.

LIAM: Eat that lembas bread.

SAM: I take the whip back.

(laughter)

TRAVIS: Was it a magical whip or just a rope?

LAURA: No, it was just his whip.

TALIESIN: Let's check the other side.

MATT: Anything else you want to do?

LIAM: No no no, there's something, I don't know
what, I couldn't make out what I was hearing, it

sounded like hay or grass moving, so I don't want
to mess with that.

MARISHA: Someone's sleeping.

TRAVIS: I think it was the straw on the bottom of
her cell, right?

LIAM: No, that was her passage. There's another
passage to presumably another set of cells. So I

will skip along quietly 20 feet ahead of you all.
Try to see.

SAM: Old people love us.

LAURA: We're the worst.

MATT: You skitter around the corner. Go ahead and
make a perception check.

LIAM: 21.

MATT: Okay. Looking about the cells, they all
appear to be empty. You do catch a couple of rats

skittering through some of the brush. Nothing
that really is the source of that

scraping metal sound.

LIAM: This is the second room?

MATT: You go around the way and there's another
set of cells.

LIAM: Yeah.

MATT: Nobody else in the other cells.

LIAM: This is where I heard something before.

MATT: You heard it echoing around the other
hallway, so it could be amorphously from the same

source that she came from, or near the cell.

LIAM: And my perception. Vex, come up here and
look around.

LAURA: I sneak up.

LIAM: I don't see anything, but I feel like
something's here.

LAURA: Can we sense anything?

SAM: By the way, how long has this all taken?

MATT: Since you left the symbol up there?

SAM: The tunnel, left the lady, the tunnel. Since
we've incited the rebellion.

MATT: 20 minutes.

SAM: Jesus. We've got to start cooking, guys.

LIAM: Pike, do you, is there anything here, do you
sense anything in this room?

ASHLEY: (sighs) No, I feel weird about this old
woman.

TRAVIS: Yeah. Me, too.

LIAM: All right, so there was dungeon and dungeon,
set of cells and set of cells, but you said--

MATT: Yeah, there is, past her cells, a--

TALIESIN: Yay, map.

LAURA: We're not getting to see it yet.

MATT: Now that you've been through this whole
thing, you can see now--

LAURA: Ta-da!

TALIESIN: Let's memorize where we're all going to
die.

MATT: She's in this cell over here. You've come
around here and you can see there are two cells

this way, a cell this way, and then these sets of
cells. There is a stairway that curves upward--

MARISHA: Yeah, which one was the old lady in?

MATT: This one right there.

LAURA: I think we should let her out.

ASHLEY: Did you guys give her something to eat?

LAURA: Yeah, we gave her food and water.

LIAM: I gave her food and water.

ASHLEY: Did she eat it?

LIAM: She scrabbled at it.

MATT: She brought it to her, but she didn't eat it
immediately, no.

TRAVIS: Because she's not hungry, because she
hasn't been in there for a while.

ASHLEY: We didn't see her eat it?

LAURA: No.

MARISHA: Is there, do we see anyone else in any of
the cells?

MATT: No.

LIAM: At this point, I grab my sister and I say,
Come on, we're going to check the cells. And we

look at every single one of them.

MATT: Okay, you go through every cell. There is
nobody living in them. You do see a few of the

cells have long-decomposed corpses. Piles of
bones, mostly picked clean by the rats or whatever

creatures live in here. But from your best
knowledge of decomposition through your

experiences, nothing fresher than like the past
year, maybe.

TRAVIS: I walk back up to the old woman. Not
hungry or thirsty, I take it?

ASHLEY: I'm going to go with Grog.

MATT: (laughs) Okay. She goes, "I was fed naught
but this morning, I have to make this last."

TRAVIS: Keep you well-fed here, do they?

MATT: "No. But if you eat it all at once, you have
nothing to keep you over until the next time."

TRAVIS: Yeah, have a little nibble.

MATT: She gives you a strange look.

TRAVIS: Have a little nibble.

MATT: Takes some of the rations and breaks it off.

TRAVIS: It's good.

MATT: "It's not the finest of stone fish, but
it'll do."

SAM: Cooking with Grog!

(laughter)

TALIESIN: Old people love us.

LAURA: Yeah, we're just the worst to old people.

MATT: "Why are you so spiteful, giant man?"

TRAVIS: Because I don't trust you, old woman.

ASHLEY: Can I quietly prick a little hole into my
palm, just so I can start bleeding a little bit?

Just very tiny?

MATT: Could I ask what for?

ASHLEY: What was that?

MATT: Could I ask what for?

TRAVIS: That's a great idea.

MATT: Unfortunately, your form here is
incorporeal, there is no blood flow from your

current body.

ASHLEY: Fuck. I just want to see if she's a
vampire.

LIAM: In Vasselheim there is.

MATT: Back in Vasselheim there is, yes.

ASHLEY: All right, Grog, maybe?

LIAM: Grog, do you get any ideas watching her do
that?

TRAVIS: Yeah, I fucking bite into the meat of my
hand because I see what she's trying to do.

MATT: Okay.

TRAVIS: Just (chomp).

MATT: "What's wrong with you?"

TRAVIS: Drip a little. Oh no. Some nice type AB.
Right here. On tap.

MATT: She turns her head curiously and looks
disgusted and disturbed by this display.

TRAVIS: No?

MATT: Very confused.

TRAVIS: Clean blood. Feel yourself tempted?

MATT: "I know not which madness has taken you."

LAURA: Let's get the fuck out of here.

LIAM: We're making asses of ourselves.

MATT: "Please. Please, I implore you, just open
these gates. Let me fare for my own fate."

LIAM: Yes, the answer to that is no. We'll be
back, I'm going to go creep up the stairs.

MATT: "She. You. You, please."

LAURA: I can't pick a lock. I mean, I can try.

LIAM: I'm moving towards those stairs.

MATT: Okay, Vax walks towards the stairs. The rest
of you guys?

SAM: Doors and old people.

LAURA: I'm going to act like I'm trying to pick
the lock and help her. But I'm going to not try

very hard. I'm putting on a show for her. Oh,
this is a really difficult lock.

MATT: Okay, as you're going for the lock, she
rushes up and helps you with it and is holding,

like, "Yes, yes, please, just like that. All
right."

LAURA: And then what?

MATT: "You turn it this way. You don't have the
proper tools for this--"

LAURA: I snap the thing into the lock. Oh no. I
knew I shouldn't have done that.

MATT: "Foolish girl!"

LAURA: I just don't know what I'm doing, but I
will be back with someone who does.

MATT: Make a perception check.

SAM: Perception?

MARISHA: Perception?

SAM: Oh shit, because she's going to turn into
something.

LAURA: Oh, that's really good. 26.

MATT: 26. When she went up and grabbed the lock
with you, her hands grabbed the lock. You only

felt one hand.

MARISHA: Oh my god, it's Ripley! Oh my god, it's
Ripley! Sorry.

MATT: You're not there.

MARISHA: I'm saying that as Marisha. Not as
Keyleth. Saying that as a person.

MATT: The worst.

MARISHA: I'm sorry.

MATT: But anyway.

LIAM: Shush, you don't know anything, shut up.

MATT: We are going to leave it there--

(shouting)

LAURA: Oh my gosh.

ASHLEY: Wait, who's Ripley?

(laughter)

LAURA: Oh my gosh.

LIAM: They mostly come out at night. Mostly.

LAURA: Ashley, we're going to have to tell you so
much.

TALIESIN: Oh my god.

ASHLEY: I'll try to catch up, too.

MATT: So now Whitestone Castle has been
infiltrated, the real path to the seeming end is

on. We will continue this next week Thursday.

ASHLEY: Wait, we're stopping?

MATT: Yeah, we're stopping.

SAM: You've got to go to sleep.

LAURA: You've got to get picked up in like an
hour.

MATT: When do you have to be on set, Ashley?

ASHLEY: My pick up is at 5AM.

MARISHA: Oh my god, Ashley.

TALIESIN: So what time is it there right now?

MARISHA: It's one, no, 2AM there.

ASHLEY: It's almost 2AM.

LAURA: Ashley!

MATT: Ashley... See that's, that's a true friend
player right there, guys.

MARISHA: It's just pick-ups, right?

MATT: I know. Well thank you, Ashley, for joining
us. Thank you so much. Really appreciate it.

ASHLEY: Ah, shit.

LAURA: Ashley, we love you.

TALIESIN: Love you so much.

ASHLEY: All right, I love you guys so much.

MARISHA: We love you, Ashley, please come back
next week.

MATT: Yeah, let us know if you can make next week,
please.

ASHLEY: Okay. Bye!

MARISHA and LAURA: Bye!

TALIESIN: Bye, darling!

LIAM: Can that astral connection hold?

MATT: Yeah.

MARISHA: Can that astral connection hold?

ASHLEY: I know, hopefully, hopefully.

MATT: Have a good night. Good luck.

ASHLEY: Love you guys.

LAURA and MARISHA: (air kisses)

MATT: And you guys, thank you so much for coming
and watching our craziness every week. Once again,

blown away by the generosity of all the Critters
and folk from our Critmas last week. That episode

will be up tomorrow, and for those who didn't get
a chance to see the ridiculous generosity and

absurdity that is you guys in all of your
amazement, check it out. And thank you for giving

to charity, thank you for everything you guys do,
and thank you for watching us be silly and rolling

dice every week.

MARISHA: And comic comes out on Wednesday.

MATT: Yeah.

SAM: Oh wow, Wednesday?

MARISHA: This coming up Wednesday.

TALIESIN: And your Spotify went up today.

MARISHA: And yeah, go check out all of our
playlists.

MATT: Rock it out.

MARISHA: There'll be a fun playlist next week.

LAURA: Oh, and I'm joining Monday Melee for Team
Coco on Monday.

MATT: What?

LAURA: Yeah.

TALIESIN: What?

MATT: That's awesome.

LAURA: So I forgot to say that at the beginning.
But yeah, it should be at like 11AM on Monday.

11:30, something like that.

MATT: That's awesome.

LAURA: Check it out.

MATT: Check it out, follow her on Twitter.

LAURA: Yeah, I'll put something out there.

TALIESIN: On the Twitters.

MATT: Indeed. Well, guys, we'll see you next week,
and is it Thursday yet?