MATT: Hello, everyone and good evening. Welcome to
Critical Role, a show where a bunch of us

nerdy-ass voice actors sit around and play
Dungeons and Dragons. This will be our final

episode for the year before we take our holiday
break, and for those of you who aren't currently

in the theater to see Star Wars or are not
planning to leave in the next five minutes to go

see Star Wars, which we do not begrudge you that
whatsoever; many of us will be rushing off after

this to do the same. For those of you staying with
us, thank you for kicking it and may the Force be

with you when this is over.

So before we get started, let's go ahead and get a
few announcements out of the way. One, for those

of you who have been waiting extensively, because
I know you have been. Tomorrow, on the website you

will have the Snugglelord playlist will be
premiering on GeekandSundry.com.

ZAC: It's completely serious!

MATT: It's totally serious.

MARISHA: So serial.

MATT: Super serial, guys. Like, so serial.

TALIESIN: For real-real, not for play-play.

MATT: (laughs) The next announcement, we had our
Critmas article go up earlier this week, our

Critter's Guide to Critmas, where we each talk
about the different charities that we represent

and if you want to try and give something to the
show and the goodwill we put out for that, it's a

really great way to see what each of us would like
to see presented or supported by the community. So

if you haven't had a chance, go check it out and
feel some holiday spirit to give, go ahead and

pick any that are there or any of your own
charities and do what you can to help. So,

appreciate that guys. Also, the most recent comic
went live for our Winter's Crest festival.

LIAM: It's a good one.

LAURA: It is a good one.

TALIESIN: Grog pranking.

MARISHA: Grog pranking.

TALIESIN: Everybody loves Grog pranking.

LIAM: It's a flight of fancy. It did not happen in
our game. It should have, but it didn't.

MARISHA: Yeah. It's art imitating life.

TALIESIN: We had to fluff it up a bit.

MARISHA: There was fluffing. Just a little
massaging.

TALIESIN: Especially for you, we had to, we had to
fluff.

MATT: The two fluffers.

MARISHA: Three.

MATT: (laughs) Yeah, so go check it out, it's a
lot of fun and plays into our Winter's Crest

festival this evening, though that one took place
a year ago in game technically. Two years, I

guess, in game-- no, it was a year because the
original-- and all the events that transpired

after that, there was the make-up Winter's Crest
festival. You don't know what we're talking about,

but you may soon.

TALIESIN: Just act like you know.

MATT: Which, speaking of which, we have a little
gift for you guys at the break today. We're going

to have an extended mid-way break because we have
a gift that we've all put together for you that I

think you'll enjoy.

TALIESIN: It's cool.

LAURA: It's so exciting.

MATT: So, look forward to that.

MARISHA: So no peeing today. No pee breaks.

TALIESIN: Like Star Wars, just hold it until it's
over.

MATT: Or be like me, just put in a catheter
beforehand, works out really well. Don't do that,

don't do that. Please don't do that. (laughs)
Thanks for the support, guys. And Wyrmwood Gaming.

Liam, if you want to go grab that real fast?

LIAM: Wyrmwood Gaming, they make gorgeous,
beautiful gaming boxes. They make lovely Christmas

presents and if you use the code CritRole, you
will not have to pay for shipping on your Wyrmwood

Gaming order. They're gorgeous.

TRAVIS: Smells like twenties. Natural twenties.
I'm working on it. I'm polishing.

TALIESIN: Keep workshopping that.

TRAVIS: Yeah, I'm working on it.

MATT: We'll have a Sam here with us shortly.

LAURA: Oh, Sam is here.

TRAVIS: I'll go get him!

MATT: Very shortly.

LAURA: Go, Travis, run like the wind!

LIAM: Clarence! Bring the gnome in, Clarence!

MATT: I guess while we're waiting for him--
(laughs) Travis is going to be really

disappointed.

(laughter)

LIAM: Ah, Grog pranked again!

SAM: It's okay, I'll go get Travis.

TALIESIN: (sings Benny Hill theme)

MATT: This is the rest of our show tonight. Just
three hours of this. It's going to be great. So,

if you want to show the cookies that--

TALIESIN: Oh, yeah. My girlfriend made cookies
for-- I'll put this one on the--

MATT: On the mat, here?

LAURA: I took a picture.

MARISHA: Hold them closer to the camera. Hold them
to the sky.

LIAM: Wow, that was what that camera was purchased
for.

MATT: This is now officially the cookie cam.

LAURA: Raise them up, Taliesin. Raise them to the
air. Closer to the camera.

MATT: How do--

LAURA: You want oh wah ta goo.

MATT: How do Pike do this?

MARISHA: (laughs) How do Pike do this?

MATT: How do Grog do this?

LAURA: They're so cute. There's little baby
Trinkets.

TRAVIS: It's really pretty. And it makes it hard
to eat.

MARISHA: I like the little gingerbread, with
little lederhosen and they got little goats and

reindeer in lederhosen.

LAURA: This is exciting, you guys.

MATT: Travis. Can you let Sam in for me?

TRAVIS: He's already here.

LIAM: Christmas TPK.

MARISHA: Oh, look at that Keyleth one!

LAURA: But they're so cute, I don't want to eat
it.

MATT: All righty.

LAURA: I'll have a snowflake, please.

MATT: Any other announcements you wish to make, or
shall we go onward?

TRAVIS: Any other announcements we should make,
you fucking-- cookie-- pass arounder? Cookie

distributor?

LAURA: Oh! You know what, I do have something.

LIAM: What's that?

LAURA: Glitter Force. It's a new show.
It's going to be on Netflix tomorrow. So I play

the main girl, so that's exciting.

MARISHA: Oh, that's awesome.

LAURA: It's great for little girls.

TRAVIS: (muffled) Super cute and funny.

LAURA: Yeah it is, it's adorable and it's funny.

LIAM: And 25-year-old guys.

LAURA: And 25-- whoever wants to watch it.

MARISHA: Are they going to make the next Bronies?

LAURA: I don't know, but there are like a lot of--
I mean, it's called the Glitter Force. There are a

lot of cute little make-up accessories.

LIAM: I already have all the merchandise.

LAURA: Yeah. I'm touching every cookie in this
box.

MATT: How very Vex of you (laughs).

TALIESIN: There's also some whipped cream if you
want to dip.

LAURA: Yes.

MARISHA: Touch all the whipped cream, too.

MATT: And on that note.

(laughter)

MATT: Let us go ahead and bring our way into this
evening's game. So, to-- hey!

TALIESIN: Sorry.

MATT: It's all good. Sam will show up; it's fine.

TRAVIS: It's like the devil. Say his name and he
will appear.

SAM: I couldn't find Travis anywhere.

LIAM: Cookie icing on your lips.

TRAVIS: You look like you literally came from the
set of Mad Max. Did you just witness?

LIAM: Glam rock.

TRAVIS: Did he tell you he loved you, or what?

SAM: They had me eat--

LAURA: Oh, I know what it is. Okay.

SAM: Some stuff.

TALIESIN: Scanlan stocking cookie there.

SAM: Oh, that's so nice.

MATT: That's adorable. All right.

TRAVIS: We're locked in!

MATT: Let's do this. Bring it in. So, to get you guys
up to speed quickly, for those of you who are

coming in fresh. Oh, what an episode to jump into.
So, the intrepid group of adventurers known as Vox

Machina had made their way to the city of
Whitestone, a town that Percival here grew up in

and had taken from him and his family five years
ago, most of his family, the de Rolos, being murdered

in the process. The Briarwoods, who had taken the
town rather quickly and covertly held it for five

years had now been building toward some sort of a
ritual, some sort of event that the party was

investigating. They incited a rebellion within the
city of Whitestone, gathering the remaining

members to take up arms and fight against this
undead scourge that had kept them locked down for

so long, oppressed for so long.

After managing to take out some of the various
operatives under the Briarwoods' regime, they made

their way into Castle Whitestone itself, saved
Percy's sister, Cassandra, thought dead for a long

time, got vengeance upon a number of individuals
that were on his List, except for Ripley, who got

away. Fought their way down underneath the city of
Whitestone, fell into an acid-based trap, made

their way to the ziggurat, this construct beneath
the city of Whitestone, where some ritual was

attempting to be completed by Lady Delilah
Briarwood. It was discovered that the patron they

spoke of, the Whispered One, had been in previous
bits of history spoken as Vecna, a powerful lich

of ancient history that had attempted to ascend to
godhood at some point in the past.

They managed to tackle the Briarwoods, destroy
Sylas, defeat Delilah, and dragging them back,

decided to interrogate. In the process of trying
to extract information, Percy's dark harbinger,

his dark passenger, if you will... who was a
tongue-waggling dog for a moment.

TALIESIN: I was making an evil shadow.

MATT: I see.

TALIESIN: Evil shadow.

LIAM: "Kill them all, Percy. Kill them all."

MATT: Pressured to incite the
vengeance that apparently the pact he made with this

entity required. Upon fighting its will, it was
jettisoned from his form and the party battled

this deranged greater smoke demon-like entity in
the center of this cavern. During this fight, Lady

Briarwood tried to escape, however, found a dagger
in the middle of her back,

thanks to Vax over there.

LAURA: Good job.

MATT: Stripped of her possessions, and then
Cassandra dragging her into the nearby acid baths,

tossing her body within to leave her story to a
definite conclusion. Scanlan, being very astute,

apparently, in some observations, and as
convincing as he can be, managed to wrestle

Percy's weapon, his List, his Pepperbox, from his
grip, and tossed it into the very acid pits,

destroying his greatest creation and in doing so,
seemingly breaking whatever hold this shadow demon

had on Percy's soul.

SAM: The Way of the Gun.

TRAVIS: The Quick and the Dead.

LIAM: A couple weeks in detox and you'll be fine.

MARISHA: It's true.

LAURA: It was an intervention, Percy.

SAM: Had to be done.

MATT: Upon returning to the city of Whitestone,
they found the rebellion was successful. The

undead hordes had fallen to the blades of the
surviving rallying warriors of Whitestone. Keeper

Yennen, who currently was the, essentially, leader
of the rebellion while you guys were going into

the castle, met with you. You guys were brought to
the center of town, where you began to see the

rest of Whitestone emerge: the families, the
children, the people that had been too scared to

go outside finally came out to celebrate victory,
the first real breath of free air they've had in

five years since the Briarwoods took the city.

Some justice was doled to a few survivors of the
Briarwoods' regime. And you were asked to stay

behind to help rebuild and prepare for the coming
Winter's Crest festival, of which you agreed. A

few awkward moments and a few delightful bits of
interpersonal comedy brought you guys to this

point and now we begin tonight's session of
Critical Role. So, to start off, leading up to

this Winter's Crest festival, about a two-week
period, what would you guys like to individually

do in this time to prepare for the festival?

TRAVIS: We have two weeks?

MATT: Yeah, essentially. The two-week period, we're doing
a bit of a time jump here, so if there's anything

in particular you want to do or attempt in this
time period, now's the time to do so before we get

to the actual event.

TRAVIS: I had a question. Could I go around
lifting up various wagons and maybe ponies,

working out to try to increase my strength?

(laughter)

TRAVIS: Or just randomly picking shit up and not
have an excuse for it. That was good, too.

MARISHA: I mean, the town's in tatters. You could
be productive and pick things up.

TRAVIS: Yeah! Or you know, I pick up a
hammer in the morning.

LAURA: And you're helping to rebuild.

TRAVIS: Yeah!

SAM: Like Rocky IV.

TRAVIS: Yeah!

MATT: Yeah, in a brilliant holiday montage, as the
cold weather finds its way into the valley of

Whitestone, Grog goes around aiding many of the
groups repairing and reassembling the glory of

Whitestone, finding the structures that are broken
or destroyed and trying to clean them, prepare for

new building properties. You come by, eagerly
lifting, carrying, dropping, slamming, and holding

in place extremely heavy pieces of stone and
masonry. In some cases, putting a few of the local

strong men to shame and some of the local ladies,
very blush-worthy in your presence. You are very

happy. Go ahead and make three strength checks for
me.

TRAVIS: Oh shit, three of them. That's a 24.

MATT: Okay, second one?

TRAVIS: That's a 22.

MATT: All right.

TRAVIS: 22. 24, 22, 22.

MATT: Through the process of these two weeks, not
only have you managed to surprise the local

denizens of the city with your feats of strength
and masculine physique-- as when Grog is building,

Grog does so shirtless.

TRAVIS: (laughs) As anything. Might as well get a
show out of it.

MATT: In doing so, some of the local denizens pull
some cash to the side to thank you for your

efforts. You find at the end of the week you are
granted a small pouch which contains 315 gold

pieces as a thanks from the locals for all the
help both in the rebellion, the freeing of

Whitestone, and for your feats of magnificent
musculature.

TRAVIS: I don't feel like I should take this.

LAURA: You should take it.

TRAVIS: It's a lot of money.

LAURA: You should take it.

TRAVIS: How about you refill my cask of ale
instead?

SAM: Ooh.

LIAM: Happy Festivus.

TRAVIS: And you give me one gold piece so Vex
doesn't kill me.

MATT: The crowd look among themselves and one of
the lead architects for this whole endeavor nods

to you. "Sounds like a fair trade. If you're
certain, sir."

TRAVIS: I'm a very stringent businessman. Do
hurry before I change my mind.

MATT: Gold piece is in your hand faster than you
have a chance to-- you chip a tooth.

TRAVIS: I don't understand this practice. It
tastes like shit. Tastes fucking horrible.

MATT: Two casks of their precious ale roll up to
the base of your foot.

TRAVIS: (gasps) Two?!

MATT: Two.

TRAVIS: One for each arm, eh? All right, the one
that I have, I'm not stopping, until it's

completely empty. Bring your goblets and cups.
It's time to get fucked up.

MATT: (laughs) Fantastic. All right, Vex.

LAURA: Well, I got the ring and the bracers that I
need to get checked out, see what they are.

MATT: And the robe?

LIAM: Oh, the robe. No, I threw it down, though.

TALIESIN: You picked it up.

LIAM: You picked it up.

LAURA: I have the robe, too.

MATT: Okay.

LAURA: We left her naked. Yes, we did.

MATT: You kind of did, actually.

TALIESIN: Like properly.

MATT: A few things here, actually.

TRAVIS: Oh Vex, I made gold.

LAURA: Oh wow, thank you, that's amazing, Grog.
Where did you find this piece of gold?

TRAVIS: Oh, I got it for fixing a bunch of shit
around town. Are you going to taste it?

LAURA: No, I'm not. It's already got a lot of
drool on it, actually.

TRAVIS: But how do you know if it's gold if you
don't taste it?

LAURA: I'm just going to put it in with the rest
of the gold, Grog.

TRAVIS: Shit. I'm going to pull one over on her
one of these days. Can you make things look like

they're gold?

SAM: I can, actually.

TRAVIS: You can?

SAM: Yes.

MATT: All right.

TRAVIS: I've had my thought for the day, there's
nothing else.

SAM: When you have the punchline, let me know.

TRAVIS: It's a standby TV symbol right now. That's
all I got.

MATT: So, as you take some time, first off, I want
you to go ahead and roll an investigation check.

LAURA: Aw man, I've got to roll for this? I'm
going to roll one of my new dice.

Well, it's for--

MATT: What was that sound?

LAURA: It was exciting! 24.

MATT: 24, okay. So as you begin pulling out the
items and begin separating, before you can even

begin the initial inspection, as you are pulling
the robe out, you find there is a slight poke.

There's something thin--

LAURA: (singing) Feel a little poke coming
through.

MATT: Not that kind of poke. You unravel that part
of the robe and find there's a long deep pocket on

the inside of the robe. And inside, there's a long
gnarled piece of deep maroon wood that is carved

into a wand shape.

SAM: What kind of a wand?

MATT: I'm trying to find the actual item card
here. Found it! There we go.

SAM: I want it.

LAURA: Oh my god.

SAM: I want it.

LAURA: Oh, did you find it? Did you find it in the
group? Are you even standing near me right now, as

I'm seeing this wand?

SAM: Of course I am. I'm always with you.

LAURA: How do you know I'm not doing it in my
room?

SAM: Are you?

LAURA: Yes.

TALIESIN: What's she wearing right now?

SAM: Why I am in your room?!

LAURA: Scanlan, get out of here, I'm naked.

SAM: Oh I know, I came in here to tell you, to ask
you something: where's my wand?

(laughter)

LAURA: Ugh, I've got to look at this a bit more
before I give this to you because it is very, very

good. It is a Wand of Fireballs, by the way,
people. It has seven charges; while holding it,

you can use an action to expend one or more of its
charges to cast the Fireball spell, DC of 15, one

charge you cast at third level-- so many words. I
don't even understand.

LIAM: A fan art of this moment, please?

LAURA: But also--

MATT: You recall, actually, as you went over the
top at the initial battle with Lady Briarwood,

that was what she pulled out and managed to blast
all of you with at once when you all were on the

top of the temple.

LAURA: Nice. I'm just going to put this in my
pocket.

LIAM: I thought you were naked.

LAURA: I'll put it in the pocket of the outfit I'm
about to put on. And then the ring and the

bracers?

MATT: I'll get those right now. There you go.

LAURA: Wait, Grog, don't sit down.

TALIESIN: This is why it's Christmas.

SAM: Where's my ring?

MARISHA: What's the ring do?

LAURA: Oh my god. I found so many amazing things,
you guys.

TRAVIS: Those are bracers--

LAURA: No!

SAM: Those are mine. I found them.

TRAVIS: Grog will believe whatever you say.

LAURA: No! I'm reading them all; they're mine!
Ring of Lightning Resistance. Who wants a Ring of

Lightning Resistance?

SAM: Sure.

LAURA: Bracers of Defense. Who needs extra
defense? You're really weak. Your AC's super low,

isn't it?

LIAM: It is.

MATT: Bracers of Defense will technically only
really benefit anybody who's not wearing armor.

LIAM: Not wearing armor?

MATT: Correct.

MARISHA: Like Grog?

MATT: Like monks.

LAURA: There you go.

LIAM: Thank goodness, because he is a blushing
flower in the wind.

MATT: If you currently have-- is it an amulet that
helps your armor? We'll go through your AC and

find out if it overlaps with any other benefits.

TRAVIS: I do have the Amulet of Armor.

MATT: Right, so basically that would replace that
and you would now have an amulet slot open for any

sort of future enchantment stuff.

LIAM: I'll take the amulet.

MATT: You could give the amulet to somebody else if
you want to.

LIAM: He'll never give it to me.

MARISHA: He was willing to do it until you gave
him the idea to not do it.

LIAM: That's fine.

TRAVIS: Can't remind me of these things.

LAURA: Okay, a Robe of Shielding Shadows. Can it
be worn with armor?

MATT: No.

LAURA: Oh man. It's just a robe. It's her dress,
basically, and it gives you resistance to piercing

damage.

LIAM: You know what we can do with that? Sell it.

SAM: Or give it to me.

LAURA: You have armor, dude.

SAM: Oh, okay.

MARISHA: It takes an armor slot.

LAURA: And it's a woman's robe.

SAM: I can make that work.

LAURA: Yeah, you totally could.

MARISHA: Can we take the fabric and sew it into a
nice afghan or something?

MATT: You can certainly try. It would probably
ruin the enchantment.

LAURA: Oh, it would ruin the enchantment? If you
sew it differently?

MARISHA: What if you don't cut into it?

LAURA: What if we fold it?

TALIESIN: What if we just tie the dress around our
neck?

LAURA: Maybe just put your arms through it and
then let it ride behind you like a cape?

MARISHA: Right, it's like one of those "wear nine
different ways" dresses?

MATT: You can wear it however you want and you
will discover one way or another if it actually

gives an effect.

LAURA: Well, I'm just going to pocket this because
we may sell it, how about that. And then, a Ring

of Lightning Resistance, anybody want it? How many
rings can we wear at one time?

MATT: Two. One on each hand.

TALIESIN: I would not say no to a Ring of
Lightning Resistance.

LAURA: Pass that over to Percy.

TALIESIN: I've got plans. At the moment, it's the
only way to charge my glove.

LAURA: All right, and this Wand of Fireballs? I
feel like Scanlan needs it more than anyone else.

SAM: I already have a wand that shoots things.

LIAM: You're the only one who can use it.

SAM: Oh, I'm the only one who can use it? I'll
take it, then.

LAURA: I might just sell this robe, though.

TRAVIS: I know how you work it, it's swish and
flick. Fireball.

LAURA: Swish and flick.

MATT: What could possibly go wrong?

TRAVIS: What if a non-spellcaster uses a wand?
Nothing, right?

LAURA: No. Anyone can use it.

TRAVIS: Should we try it?

LIAM: Yes, you should try it.

TRAVIS: I am a walking crash test dummy. I mean,
we can try it. It'll be fine.

MATT: That's my favorite mindset.

LAURA: And then I'm going to mostly for the rest
of the time, keep to myself and Trinket and I'm

going to help the townspeople rebuild a bit.

MATT: All right. Wondrous. Vax?

LIAM: I am also going to keep to myself and I'm
going to talk to the people in town, see what

businesses are open or trying to open, see what
they need. And I would like to talk to Percy,

since I don't know anyone here, about who I could
talk to about getting messages to Emon, and I

would like to get a message to Gilmore, to see if
he can fill any need here. If trade is so ruined

here, that Gilmore could be a help. And Gilmore
gets another front, a place to do business and

actually do good in a place that needs it.

MARISHA: Gilmore's Glorious Books.

SAM: That's right.

LAURA: I like it.

MATT: Over bits of a period of discussion, for the
most part, any sort of non-official courier

service has been negated in the town. However,
there is now a glut of people that are, after the

devastation, especially the ensuing rebellion,
folks that need work and need coin and there are

many individuals that would be more than willing
to, for a handful of gold coins, make the journey

to Emon delivering any messages you like.

LIAM: Well, I will write a message to Gilly and
say that they're hurting here. They need trade, all the

supplies that he's able to supply and tell him
that this town is about to explode and is

definitely a good place for his wares.

LAURA: Are you going to break up with him in the
letter too? Are you going to tell him that you're

going to break his heart as soon as he writes you
back? Is that what's going to happen? I'm sorry,

I'm just looking at your letter as you're writing
it.

LIAM: No, because I've been avoiding her as well.
I'm avoiding everybody except for Percival, who

I've been asking advice from.

MATT: Okay. Do you also have the cloak? Did you
take the cloak?

LIAM: I have the cloak, yeah. Yeah, dibs on that.

MATT: Fine pickings off the corpses of the two
major villains of the previous arc.

LIAM: Yes.

TALIESIN: More corpse picking to do.

MATT: Exactly.

LAURA: What?! You have so many cloaks, though. Why
do you need another one?

SAM: He's opening a cloak factory.

TALIESIN: Gilmore's Glorious Cloaks.

MATT: Cloak hoarding over here. All right,
Scanlan.

SAM: I wanted to do four things.

TRAVIS: Yeah!

SAM: One, compose an epic poem to commemorate the
rebels rising up against the empire that had kept

them down for so long. Sort of a force that had
awakened. I call it...

Resident Evil. 
I don't know why.

Because they're residents and there was evil.
I couldn't come up with another name for it.

They're residents of the town and there was an
evil. That's all. So, I'm looking for a

publisher.

MATT: Okay, good. There may be a grand opportunity
at the Winter's Crest festival to perform this.

SAM: Oh-- gulp.

LIAM: Disney and Capcom will be calling.

SAM: I also wanted to make sure that we were using
the treasury, coordinating with Percy to open a

library for the people to help them rebuild their
place, which sounds like Vax is already on. I also

commissioned a portrait of myself. I don't know if
you-- I found a young artisan in town that I paid

him some coin to paint me something that could
possibly hang in the keep, at Greyskull, in the

dining room.

MATT: Okay. After asking around for a few days,
you manage to discover there is a budding local

artist who doesn't really believe in his artwork.
He currently works in the stables on the far

southwest side of town. But people have seen some
of his work and tried to bolster him, so you're

sent in his direction and as you get there, you
can see him. He's currently in the process of

actually cutting through one of his recent works
he wasn't happy with and he's violently tearing

through it. As you step into the stable, he stops
and puts it off to the side.

"Sorry, sir, can I help you?"

SAM: Ah, hello. My name is Scanlan Shorthalt. I
was the leader of the rebellion that just defeated

Lord and Lady Briarwood.

MATT: "Oh! The pleasure is mine." He is now
averting his gaze and almost bowing his head like

you're royalty. He's very flustered and flushed by
the sudden appearance.

SAM: I hear you are a budding artist and I am, if
nothing else, a supporter of the arts.

MATT: "My talents are far unrefined and nowhere
near powerful or

"decent enough for your attentions."

SAM: Well, I believe in you. And I need you for a
very important commission. A great good has been

done here by the rebels, by the townspeople, with
the help of Vox Machina and of course, with the

help of Vox Machina's leader, myself. Therefore,
I'm here to commission a humble portrait of

myself. You may not know him, but there was a folk
hero in my town growing up. His name was Fabio. He

would frequently pose with windblown hair and an
open shirt on a horse. I was thinking something

like that, and also I have this figure of Pike.
She's a friend of mine. I'd like her on the back

of the horse, arms around my waist, looking super
hot. If that's possible.

MATT: Make a persuasion check. Only because he's
so down on his own skills.

SAM: 33.

(laughter)

MATT: As you're telling this tale, he goes from
bashful and meek to staring off in the distance,

the artistic inspiration rolling through his
head.

SAM: Oh. Sorry, 31. I was wrong.

MATT: Unchanged. He begins finishing your
sentences as you're describing scenery and

extrapolating on it. You can see the artistic mind
is definitely spinning. He looks to you and goes,

"It would be my honor. Please." He reaches forward
and takes your gnomish hand and you know, you're

about two and a half feet shorter than him, but
he's still very humble, kneels down and says,

"I would be honored to do this portrait. 
No charge."

SAM: Please, I insist. I must give you something
for your troubles.

MATT: "Whatever you deem fit, Sir Gnome, but I--"

SAM: What's your name, young sir?

MATT: "Jameson."

SAM: Jameson?

LIAM: I like him.

SAM: I like this guy.

TRAVIS: I think everybody does-- until they
don't.

SAM: How about in return, I will sing your praises
far and wide as the greatest artist in-- where are

we? Whitestone. Whiteheart. Briarstone.
Heartwood.

MATT: In making that mention, his openness
suddenly closes off and he withdraws. You see this

fear in his eyes and he shakes his head. "That
would be untrue and I am but a simple stablehand.

"I can do this for you, but please, if you could
keep this between us."

SAM: All right. I'm aware that some people like to
be discreet about things and that's all right with

me, too. Then I'll pay you the going rate for
portraits of me.

MATT: "Certainly. How large would you like it?"

SAM: How big is the wall at Greystone Keep?

MATT: Depends on which area.

SAM: The dining room wall.

TRAVIS: (laughing) That's like Sistine Chapel!

MATT: Your dining area's probably about 12 to 15
feet high.

SAM: High? Okay, and wide?

MATT: Wide? I'd say, off the top of my head,
somewhere between 40 and 50 feet.

SAM: Well, I'd like to leave room for other
artwork, as well. We'll say 20 by six.

TRAVIS and MARISHA: (laughing) 20 by six?

SAM: Well, it's half and half. 20 wide, six high.

MATT: His eyes go wide and he nods and says, "This
is a challenge. But I believe I do know someone

"whom I can order such a grand canvas from. This
can be done. This can be done." And you see he

smiles and takes your hand once again. "This can
be done."

SAM: Thank you, sir. Jameson, was it?

MATT: "Jameson, yes."

SAM: You have done a noble deed for your people
and for the rebel forces.

MATT: "Eclipsed by the deeds you have done, Sir
Gnome."

SAM: Oh, that is true.

(laughter)

MATT: He rushes off to prepare himself.

SAM: And then, one last thing. On a serious note,
I do some research to see if me, or any one of my

party could, over time and with great effort,
learn the skills required to utilize a

teleportation circle.

MATT: Okay, go ahead and make an arcana check.

SAM: Not great. Arcana? 11.

MATT: Yeah. What little you know of
teleportation-based magics, which is not your

forte in your bardic experiences, but what you've
heard and what you've seen, while you've traveled

with Tiberius, and you've come across other
individuals that used the arcane spells that

caused transport, teleportation circles themselves
are a very specific ritual. It's a spell that

comes from within the arcane caster's capabilities.
If you yourself do not have that, you're not going

to be able to utilize it at a drop of a hat.

After asking around, you find there once was a
teleportation destination circle in Castle

Whitestone that was part of the network of
Tal'Dorei, in Emon, but has since been destroyed

and sundered and has been for quite some time. You
imagine probably when the Briarwoods came, it was

deemed a dangerous little loose thread. So, over
the period of the next week or so, best you can

ascertain is that type of transportation here is
going to be probably not likely, at least not with

the resources you have at your disposal. You may
have to travel elsewhere.

SAM: It's not a skill I can learn?

MATT: It's a spell you could learn, but that would
be something you would have to swap out as you

level up or choose as your spell progression down
the road.

SAM: All right.

LIAM: I find it's better to travel the world
rather than use fast travel.

LAURA: I agree. You see so much more of it.

LIAM: You miss everything.

LAURA: Yeah.

MARISHA: All the artistic--

LIAM: Every nook and cranny, yeah.

MATT: But you do, as part of your group's
discussions throughout the week, discover that

Keyleth does have long-transport capabilities.

SAM: Ooh, hello Keyleth. Fly the friendly skies.

MATT: You want to explain what you can do?

MARISHA: I have Teleport via Plants. So I can bamf
through the Sun Tree. We can all--

SAM: We can all?

MARISHA: We can all.

LIAM: You mean like a big plant?

MATT: It opens for six seconds, a portal--

MARISHA: For one round, I can be like, this tree
is a portal and we walk through the tree and it

goes to another tree as long as I know of
that tree's existence.

LAURA: And it's the same size, right? It has to be
something of the same size?

Or it can be any tree?

MARISHA: It has to be walkable body-size.

MATT: A large or larger tree as far as this size.

LAURA: Trinket and Grog-sized trees.

SAM: That sounds like it would be the quickest
"root" to go.

TALIESIN: (groans)

LIAM: Is there a tree in your garden back at
Greyskull?

MARISHA: There is. I made sure there was a nice--

LAURA: Big old fatty tree.

MARISHA: Big old fatty oak tree.

MATT: There's actually two large trees, I
believe, in the Sarenrae temple.

LAURA: I forgot to say what else I wanted to do.

MATT: What else do you want to do?

LAURA: Well, because of that flying potion, I
wanted to try to do some research and see how much

flying potions are, if there's any kind of items
that can make you fly whenever you want?

TRAVIS: She liked it.

LAURA: I really liked it.

MATT: (laughs) The first taste is free.

LAURA: I know. I mean, I know the carpet's gone,
but maybe there's like an individual sort of item

that's less expensive than a flying carpet, I
don't know. Just wondering.

MATT: You still have the flying potion--

LAURA: I downed it!

MATT: Right, the card I gave you for it. Because
that would contain

the cost of that particular one.

LAURA: Oh.

TRAVIS: 5,250.

LIAM: You have a robe.

LAURA: Well, but I want a bunch of them, though.

MATT: Which you can have made or possibly look
about to have purchased. This town is pretty thin

as far as--

LAURA: Magic stuff?

MATT: Yeah. Most of anything of worth, of an
arcane nature was confiscated and utilized or

essentially melted down for its residuum
components as part of the creation of the

ziggurat, in preparation for their ritual. So,
other than the items you were given when you first

arrived here, you're hard-pressed to find anything
in this town of that type. But asking around,

there are enchantments that can gift flight, but
they're pretty rare.

LAURA: Okay.

LIAM: Talk to Gilmore.

MATT: Gilmore would be the person to talk to about
that. You good, Scanlan?

SAM: Oh, I'm good.

MATT: All right. Keyleth?

MARISHA: Well, Keyleth is very confused as to why
everyone seems to be avoiding each other. It's

odd. Everyone's so standoffish. Anyway, Keyleth is
going to go help the farmers and try and maybe

help revitalize some of the land and help with
planting crops, and helping out there. She also

wants to make sure all the local kids are taken
care of. Any kids that lost their parents in the

rebellion. Lead the charge of making sure the kids
are taken care of.

MATT: Okay. Going around, there were a number of
casualties in the town as part of the rebellion.

It unfortunately happens in warfare, regardless of
how noble a cause it may be. There are a few

families that were left fatherless or motherless,
as there was quite a share of the sexes raising up

for this battle. So the children that-- no one
that you know of lost both parents, for the most

part. There was the intent that if there were a
parental unit, that at least one had to stay in

case of such an occurrence to raise the children.
But you go out and meet with some of the families

and make sure they're taken care of.

Some of the homes that were destroyed as part of
the rebellion, you and Grog both worked together

to help make sure the process of rebuilding goes
well. You do also help the farmers begin to right

their crops and revitalize the land, which had
been drained by the necromantic essence of the

Briarwoods' presence, and whatever the ziggurat
was pulling from the land itself beneath seems to

have released its hold on the immediate vicinity.
So, through your aid specifically, being a druid

of your nature, you prepare this for probably one
of the finest harvests that Whitestone has had in

quite a long time. Even though it is deep winter,
they're already seeing early spring growth through

your aid.

MARISHA: Dope. Climate change.

MATT: I know, it's crazy. Vegetation and
vegetables that are withstanding and still able to

grow through the frost in the mornings, as the
cold weather is coming from the winter, so you're

raising quite a strong crop. Well done.

MARISHA: We'll have Thanksgiving in about nine
months.

MATT: (laughs) There you go.

TALIESIN: For the orphans, man.

MARISHA: For the orphans.

MATT: Percival?

TALIESIN: Okay, I'm going to spend most of my time
organizing the affairs of the castle and the local

government and making sure that there's
institutions in place, getting rid of anybody who

might still have sympathies towards the
Briarwoods. Helping re-establish the

Zenith and the Ladies' Chamber. Spending some time
with my sister.

MATT: On that note, before you continue, there is
no current institution in place. Anyone of any

political power outside of Archibald, you, and
Cassandra, has been slaughtered long past. So in

these discussions, you talk with Keeper Yennen,
you talk to Cassandra, and there is an air of

understanding that right now, there is this period
of peace, this period of calm, but there has to

eventually be an establishment put into place:
some sort of political head to oversee the

rebuilding of the city and the continued growth
and survival of this town proper.

Cassandra confides in you multiple times that she
is nervous, that she, especially given recent

circumstances, her recovery of her Stockholm
syndrome with the Briarwoods, is not confident

that she would be able to lead on her own. There
is a moment where she apologizes extensively to

Archibald. Archibald, who did survive, and was her
direct contact in the castle, takes a few days

before he will even face Cassandra when he is told
that she essentially had been leading him astray

and spearheading the death of the previous
rebellion. You also discover the reason the

various new nobles that were prepared for your
ambushes were because Cassandra had gotten

information about that from Archibald and then fed
it to the Briarwoods. But you do sense a very,

very deep-seated regret and an urge to make amends
for that from her. And because of that

circumstance, she doesn't feel like the people of
Whitestone, who would have this information, which

you haven't told anyone. There is no large-scale
announcement. The only people that know about

Cassandra's current situation with the Briarwoods
are you guys, Keeper Yennen, and Archibald.

SAM: Archibald's still around?

MATT: He is.

SAM: And he betrayed us?

LAURA and MARISHA: No.

LAURA: Cassandra betrayed him.

LIAM: Cassandra played everybody.

SAM: Oh. All right, I'll let him live.

LAURA: Thank you, glorious leader. Thank you.

SAM: Just part of the team, guys.

MATT: So that is an ongoing discussion. As far as
establishing the structure, there's been many

talks, but nothing has been fine-tuned, and that
may play itself out as part of the festival.

TALIESIN: I have two items that I would like to
look at. Well, I have three items that I would

like to look at. Sylas's sword and his amulet.

MATT: Okay. The brooch that he left behind.

TALIESIN: Brooch!

MATT: Travis has got you.

TALIESIN: Really, Travis?

LAURA: He's our runner.

LIAM: Oh, ho ho ho, and all of that!

LAURA: What is it?

MARISHA: What is it, what is it?

TALIESIN: Damn.

LAURA: Is it amazing?

LIAM: He's standing there like Guile before a
Street Fighter match.

MATT: He hasn't heard of that character.

LAURA: (laughs) What is it? What do you have?

TALIESIN: I don't know, it's a piece of paper.
It's pretty cool. It's called a Brooch of Living

Essence and it basically masks the wearer's
alignment, essence, whether they're good or evil,

they can't be seen by Detect Magic spells.

LIAM: That is the worst thing for you.

LAURA: Not anymore!

TALIESIN: Is it?

LIAM: I'm unsure. It's hard to tell.

MATT: You gather that this item in particular was
used by Sylas to travel through magically

protected areas without giving up his undead
essence or being read for his true intentions.

MARISHA: It's for a shifty bastard. It's
definitely a shifty bastard thing.

LAURA: It's for Scanlan.

SAM: Oh, me? My alignment's good.

MARISHA: Yeah, but it could be good if you want to
pretend to be evil.

TALIESIN: Either this or Vax. This would be an
interesting thing for either--

MARISHA: It doesn't protect you against Detect
Magic spells. It protects you against Detect Good

or Evil spells and magic spells that reveal your
true nature.

SAM: True nature.

LIAM: It would be a good thing.

LAURA: So you could pretend to be bad.

TALIESIN: What do you have in your-- brooch?

LIAM: My brooch?

MATT: It's in the neck slot.

LIAM: Nothing.

TALIESIN: Nothing in your neck slot?

LAURA: That sounds so disgusting.

LIAM: My neck slot (laughs). I don't know, Percy.
What have I got in my neck slot?

MATT: You see the brooch slowly press deep in his
neck slot (laughs). God. Ugh. Don't turn that into

any fan fiction, please.

TALIESIN: Don't say that!

MATT: I know. Percy, what else?

TALIESIN: The sword.

MATT: The sword.

SAM: That is a big piece of paper.

LIAM: That's a rather big piece of paper for a
sword.

TALIESIN: And Ripley's gun.

MATT: Well, first, as you take the sword in your
hands, the large, thick obsidian, onyx black blade.

You take a while to, not necessarily attune to it,
but put enough of your attention towards it where

you sense its magical capabilities. As it begins to
clarify, where one voice before was not there, a

new voice speaks and says--

MARISHA: Wait!

LIAM: (shushing noises) This is important.

TALIESIN: Goddamn it.

MATT: "You, are you my new wielder?"

LAURA: What?

SAM: He's got a talking sword!

MARISHA: What's with you and fucking weapons,
man?

TALIESIN: (whimpers)

LAURA: Be strong, Percy!

LIAM: You're not here.

TALIESIN: No.

(laughter)

MATT: "Then leave me until one worthy lifts this
blade."

TALIESIN: I'm going to gently put it down.

MATT: Okay.

MARISHA: This is a sword that has a name!

TALIESIN: I don't know what to do about this
(laughs). This is really disturbing.

MATT: As you step away from the blade, you can
feel the air nearby is generally colder in its

presence, and where previously it was just a
weapon, you can almost feel like there's something

looking at you. There's a presence just bent
towards you, expectantly.

LAURA: That's creepy!

TALIESIN: (whimpers)

SAM: Just try it out! What could go wrong?

LIAM: Do you want to become evil, Grog?

TRAVIS: I can tame it.

TALIESIN: (laughs) Wow--

LIAM: Don't do it, Percy.

TRAVIS: What does it say?

LAURA and SAM: What does it say?

TALIESIN: I don't think I should tell any of you.

MATT: The blade sits there on the ground where you leave
it, whatever you wish to do with it.

TRAVIS: Do you want to put it in the Bag?

TALIESIN: God, you've given me so much to think
about. It's really unfortunate. I'm definitely

going to take at least a week of our two weeks to
think about the sword.

MATT: Okay. What are you going to do with it in
the meantime?

LIAM: Sleep on top of it.

TALIESIN: Sleep on top of it. It's in my room.

TRAVIS: You don't want it in the Bag?

TALIESIN: No.

MATT: So, for each evening as you lay down to
sleep, you can feel a voice creep back in to say--

The voice is inquisitive. "I'm useless left here.
I seek the thrill of battle. I'm hungry." Other

evenings, it comes to you, almost pleading. "Why
have you forsaken me? You took me as a trophy.

"What purpose has a blade that goes unused? I will
remember this."

Then it falls silent after a few days.

TRAVIS: The silent treatment.

LAURA: It's sulking.

TALIESIN: Is it a two-handed sword or a
one-handed sword?

MATT: It's a greatsword. It's two-handed, big old
Final Fantasy 7 sword.

TALIESIN: Goddamn it.

SAM: Evil Grog is not a good idea.

MARISHA: This is the thing that's fucked up.

TALIESIN: Yeah, I know, which is why I shouldn't
have given him that brooch. Goddamn it. I may ask

for that brooch back.

LIAM: You can certainly try.

TALIESIN: God damn it.

TRAVIS: (laughs) Whoa.

MATT: So, as you think on it, the weeks pass--

TALIESIN: No, I had a--

MATT: Oh, what did you guys want to do?

TALIESIN: I also wanted to work on Ripley's gun.

MATT: Right. The gun itself is essentially a
baseline pistol. If you look in your archetype for

your fighter class of gunslinger, the pistol
mechanics all apply to that weapon. Beyond that,

nothing in particular. It's just her first
successful attempt in recreating a firearm.

TALIESIN: Okay. I'm going to start making some
ammo for it. And I'm going to work on it.

MATT: Okay.

LAURA: Percy, whenever you get a chance, could you,
maybe-- how hard are those exploding arrows to

make? Super-duper hard?

TALIESIN: Not terribly difficult. I don't think
it's in two weeks, but when we go home, I'll work

on it. I know, I like them too... I hate you.
You're a terrible person.

MATT: You picked up the sword, man.

TRAVIS: Percy, how's that sword working out?

TALIESIN: It's a little big, actually.

TRAVIS: Is it? Look, I have this one-handed
Dragonslayer Longsword if you want to get used to

a bit of badassery before you move up to the big
leagues. I know you've got that dinky piece of

shit you've been using this whole time.

MATT: Just as a note, too, a greatsword is a
strength-based melee weapon. Dex does not play

into it.

TALIESIN: Oh, which is-- well, yeah.

MATT: Based on whatever your strength is. What's
your strength, Percy?

TALIESIN: Strength is 12.

MATT: You would probably not do very well with
that.

TALIESIN: Which is why I was thinking about having it
cut down and melted down into something more

useful.

MATT: This is also viable, if you wanted to try.

TRAVIS: (whispering) Dragon-slayer Longsword.

TALIESIN: You know, this is actually pretty badass
if I did give it to Grog. Yeah.

TRAVIS: Trade!

MARISHA: Jesus Christ! And he's not even going to
say anything about it. You're a terrible person,

not Matt, you are. He gave you the device and you
used it!

LIAM: You've been playing D&D for years. You know
what this means!

TALIESIN: I'm going to let you know we should keep
an eye on him, just in case.

MATT: So, Grog. As you take up the blade in your
hands, you hear coming out of the ether, a gentle,

low velvet voice caresses the inside of your head
saying, "You, are you to be my wielder?"

TRAVIS: What the shit?

MATT: "Speak your name, warrior."

TRAVIS: Grog.

MATT: "Warrior Grog, have you taken up the blade
of Craven Edge?"

TRAVIS: Is that what this is? Do you have a female
setting?

(laughter)

MATT: You hear a long, drawn-out sigh. "Do you
accept my power?"

TRAVIS: There's a power that comes with you? What
kind of power?

MATT: "Do you enjoy drinking the strength of your
foes, watching them beaten before you, and have

"that very power become your own?"

TRAVIS: Sounds pretty good.

MATT: "Do you wish the shadows to encase your form
and grant you resilience and anger, forcing those

"to kneel before you in fear."

TRAVIS: The shadows?

MATT: "Do you accept, Grog?"

TRAVIS: Fuck yeah.

(laughter)

MATT: "Then it is done. Together, we will
accomplish great things."

TRAVIS: Do you have a name? Do I call upon you?
Can I call you Bacon?

MATT: "You call me Bacon and this blade will cut
the very hand you hold. My name is Craven Edge. It

"will do you well to remember that."

TRAVIS: Right. Yep. Was totally kidding about the
bacon, Craven Edge. Well, I'm excited about this

partnership. Clearly we will be a force to be
reckoned with. By the way,

can other people hear you?

MATT: Silence.

TRAVIS: Shit.

LIAM: He will kill me first.

TALIESIN: It is an amazing sword.

TRAVIS: I haven't even read it yet.

TALIESIN: You haven't read it yet?

TRAVIS: No. I can't read!

(laughter)

LAURA: I want to read it so bad!

LIAM: Don't let anybody read it.

TALIESIN: It's so magical.

TRAVIS: Give me a bear cookie.

MATT: You have a clue as to what it can do based
on when it was used against you by Sylas.

TRAVIS: Yeah, it was badass. Thank you.

MATT: So, anything else you want to accomplish
before we close out on the rest of the week?

SAM: I had a question.

MATT: Yes.

SAM: Did we assemble a team of magic--

LAURA: To take care of the thingy?

MARISHA: Yeah, that we needed to-- we all need to
take care of that.

LAURA: The marble of death?

MATT: So, throughout the week, Keeper Yennen, a
few of the low-level arcanists that exist here--

LAURA: Didn't we send for Eskil Ryndarien?

MATT: You sent for him, but you know information
right now travels at the speed

of whatever it is you--

MARISHA: By mule?

MATT: Yeah.

TALIESIN: At speed of mule.

MATT: The speed of that as it continues forward.
You get word back. Nothing from Allura Vysoren

yet. Eskil does respond, saying he is currently
finishing up some personal business, but will make

his way towards Whitestone within a couple
weeks, with some of his compatriots who may also

be of aid. Information has been gotten across, but
it won't be until probably after this festival for

them to begin their investigation.

However, in the meantime, Keeper Yennen and a few
of the smaller local arcanists do make a couple

trips down to inspect the ziggurat themselves.
When they return, Yennen is at a loss. Most of

them don't quite understand the nature of the
magic there. It seems to be immobile. It seems to

be completely either negating, consuming, or
preventing any sort of magical force within a

specific radius of it. A lot of their normal
arcane methods of inspecting or divine methods of

inspecting this site are not functional. This is
more like bring old tomes and research historical

records of things that may be similar to this. So
when you bring up that you had reached out to

Eskil Ryndarien with the information you had, you
gather that will probably be a much more fruitful

endeavor. As of right now, no one has any clue
what this is.

LAURA: And we searched the Briarwoods' library
that they had gathered together that say anything

about--

MATT: Yeah.

LAURA: Okay.

MATT: Some of the information you acquired from
Scanlan's memory and a little bit of research into

Vecna. Very little information really exists, but
as the keeper of secrets, you get the sense that

most anything of importance in dealing with this
ritual has been destroyed as part of its

preparation because secrets are meant to be kept
and hoarded. So not much luck in that regard,

unfortunately. However, as the second week draws
to a close, the Winter's Crest day comes forward.

As the morning crests into the proper Winter's
Crest festival, you all awaken in Castle

Whitestone to an unusually cold morning. As you
look out, there is a fresh dusting of white snow

that has gently caressed the entirety of this
valley and the entire city itself. You all get

yourselves ready, gather your belongings and
preparing for the festival you've been helping get

ready this entire week, you walk down towards
Whitestone itself.

As you get to the outskirts of the city, you can
already hear in the distance music beginning to

play. Blue and white ribbons are hung up all
throughout the town, on the outside of buildings,

outside of taverns, outside of even the remaining
wreckage that is only partially built. It seems

that overnight, people just went through the town and
decorated whatever needed to be decorated to wipe

clean the memory of the recent trials and
difficulty that everyone's undergone.

You begin to make your way towards the center of
the town, to the town square where the Sun Tree

is, and as you approach, you now see the source of
the music, as a number of individuals in the town

have brought out their instruments. They're
playing, some more discordant than others, but

overall, a sense of joy as people for the first
time in a long time are truly embracing this

positive atmosphere. You see children laughing and
running through the streets. You can smell

fresh-cooked pies and various bakery items just
filling the air around you. Looking over, as you

approach the Sun Tree, you can see where once
bodies hung from its boughs, there now are strings

of blue and white ribbons that are intertwined
with each other, braided and set across from

branch to branch. You can see fine little glass
structures that have been hand blown and left to

drape from them to be part of the festivities.

As you begin to make your way up there,
immediately people begin to notice your presence,

and you can see people in the streets begin to
gather up and begin cheering. You hear voices

mutter out, "Vox Machina!" People start reaching
out and shaking your hands. "Thank you so much,

"thank you." You're taken aback by the attention.
It's reminding you a little bit of the awkwardness

you had with the last Winter's Crest in Emon.

LAURA: Be on the lookout for eggs, giant
frosty-looking eggs.

MATT: You make your way towards the Sun Tree and
there you see Keeper Yennen is in the process of

speaking with a few of the people that helped him
with this entire rebellion, in setting up this

event, and he greets you all as you approach. "Oh,
my friends! How wondrous. Glad to see you are all

"wakened and ready and well rested, I assume."

TRAVIS: Yes.

MATT: "Glorious. Well, this is a day of
celebration. We've taken the time and mourning

"shall continue as needed, but today, today is to
embrace what it means to be alive, to thwart the

"darkness and the evils that press upon the free
folk of these lands. And of course, to eat and

"drink until you are full and drunk."

(laughter)

MARISHA: Cheers to that.

MATT: "It will be a little bit before we get to the
actual celebration speech, but in the meantime, go

"free yourselves, drink, be merry. There are a few
events going on around you." And he points in a

few directions, and you can see around you there
are tables set up, there are individuals playing

games. Immediately to the left, you can see there
are two long tables set up and a stack of pies off

to one side, looks like an eating contest.

TRAVIS: I haven't eaten for a full day.

MARISHA: In preparation?

TRAVIS: Yep.

MATT: You do see what looks to be a gentleman with
a high box, with a very, very fine waxed mustache

that is currently doing parlor tricks and magical
presentations for people who are trading coin to

be astounded with his illusions. You can see what
looks to be a series of tables behind the Sun Tree

heading towards the southeast side of it. You
recognize better than anyone: these are central

tables, relatively small, with a chair on each
side.

TRAVIS: Arm wrestling!

(laughter)

TRAVIS: Craven, I think-- oh wait, that's arm
wrestling. Go to sleep.

MATT: The sigh is getting more and more
impatient.

TRAVIS: He'll get used to that.

MATT: So these are the three first events you come
across in your immediate vicinity. What would any

of you guys like to partake in?

MARISHA: I see the magic tricks and go (loud gasp)
and run over, without saying anything.

SAM: I tag along.

TALIESIN: Oh, I'll go in for this one as
well.

MARISHA: Okay.

MATT: As you guys rush forward, you come to the
box. It's a relatively high box. It looks like it

hasn't seen some use in a while. The gentleman
sitting there, with longish hair, parted in the

center, and combs outward. He's got a waxed
mustache. He's wearing dusty presentational

robes and he has on the top of it a series of
small boxes and what looks like various tricks he

has at the ready. There are three children off to
the side with either their keeper or parents

behind. "Now watch, if you will, as this simple
ball transports itself between the cups and yet

"find your eyes unable to follow." And he switches
the cups around for a moment. (whoosh)

(laughter)

MATT: "Where is the ball, little one?" The kids
deliberate and one goes, "That one!"

"Are you sure?" They all shake their head.

"Oh! I'm sorry,
the ball has escaped your vision once again."

And they all they cheer. He lifts the other one.

MARISHA: (gasps), are you a wizard? We've met a
few wizards. No, are you a sorcerer? Because you

don't look like a druid. This doesn't look like
natural magic. What?

MATT: "I am what you refer to as an illusionist.
And I can play tricks on your mind, your mind,

"your mind..."

MARISHA: (shouting) No! God, we've been through
way too much of that here lately.

SAM: It's entertainment.

MATT: "Playful! Playful illusions, not
against..."

SAM: It's just a game.

TALIESIN: Carry on. It's good. She's good.

MATT: "Keep her in check, please. You're scaring
the children."

SAM: It's not real. It's a game. It's going to be
fine.

MARISHA: (whispers) Okay. I don't trust this guy.

SAM: Don't worry. Why don't you have Percival take
the first turn?

MATT: "I'm also a diviner. I can look into your
eyes and see your very future."

TALIESIN: Not really. It's okay.

MATT: "For a simple gold piece, you can test your
skills against the transference of this ethereal

"ball. Or for five, I can look into your fate."

MARISHA: (starts hyperventilating)

TALIESIN: I'll do both, actually.

MATT: "Ha ha. All right." Takes the gold piece.

MARISHA: I grab him by the scruff and I say, if
you hurt him... You don't know what he's been

through, okay?

MATT: "It's fine. It's all right."

MARISHA: Are you working with the Briarwoods? Did
the Briarwoods send you?!

MATT: "Can you please get her off of me?"

SAM: Hey, kids, this is why you shouldn't drink
during the daytime.

MATT: "Anyway."

MARISHA: Do your magic.

MATT: "So, sir." Takes one gold piece off,
sets it aside. "Now, the ethereal ball. This was

"taken from the Far Realms themselves, crafted in
the ivy-covered hills in the far North End, the

"Feywild itself. How could you follow this, with
but your simple vision?" He places one cup over

it, two cups to the side and begins shifting and
shifting. Go ahead and make a perception check.

MARISHA: Oh, him? Okay.

TALIESIN: 20.

MATT: You see now, there's a couple moments where
the ball shifts between cups and you get a really

close idea of exactly how this works. And when he
finishes, he looks to you.

"Now, where is the fey ball?"

TALIESIN: I would say it's to your right, right
there.

MATT: "That one?"

(laughter)

MATT: "Are you sure? It could be anywhere on this
table."

TALIESIN: It could, but it's there. Because it's
not anywhere else other than there.

SAM: I'm not so sure about that, Percy.

TALIESIN: Well, you're welcome to go in, if you
like.

SAM: I choose the one on the left.

TALIESIN: You'll have to give him a gold coin,
though.

SAM: Sure. (ding)

MATT: He takes the gold coin.

"Do you wish to choose for this one instead,
then?"

TALIESIN: No, I'm choosing on the right.

MATT: Takes the gold piece. "And with that--

"You found it, yay."

(laughter)

MATT: He gives you five gold.

MARISHA: I lean into Percy and I say: this guy's
not a threat. He's okay.

TALIESIN: Well, I am a dark evil demonic
creature.

MATT: As he gives you the five gold, he
immediately takes it back.

"But you wanted to know your fate."

TALIESIN: Yes.

MATT: "Step forward, young-- what's your name?"

TALIESIN: Just Percy.

MATT: "Percy. Please, present your face." As he
reaches out, he begins to feel the bumps on your

head. He begins to touch the outside of your face.
He closes his eyes. "Yes, yes, I can see into the

"very nature of your existence. You, young--
Percy?"

TALIESIN: Yes.

MATT: "Percy, Percy. Young Percy. You, you have
hardworking hands, you've seen a lifetime of hard,

"hard work in the fields. But you wish to make
your father proud, as does every son and you

"will-- as one day you will become... a well
celebrated smith of horseshoes!

"Yes! Glory to Percy!"

SAM: Amazing! So accurate.

TALIESIN: So accurate.

MATT: He leans in and says, "I could tell from the
black powder on your hands that you've worked with

"a few pieces of iron in your time."

TALIESIN: Very astute.

MATT: (chuckles) "Thank you so much. So, who's
next?" The children start rushing up and-- you

guys wish to continue with this guy?

MARISHA: No.

(laughter)

SAM: All right, we'll leave.

MARISHA: I've seen enough.

MATT: Okay, who's doing what now?

TRAVIS: Does anyone want to get down to the pie
contest? I thought I might arm wrestle first.

LIAM: I think you should arm wrestle.

SAM: Oh yeah, I want to see this.

TRAVIS: I'd like to arm wrestle, in case I need to
eat my way out of sadness with pies.

MATT: (laughs)

TALIESIN: Turn your sadness into victory.

TRAVIS: Yeah.

SAM: I will also enter the arm wrestling
competition.

MATT: All right.

TRAVIS: Yes!

MATT: Okay, okay. So, as you guys step up, you can
see there's a woman dressed in a rather simple

barmaid outfit, leather apron on her side and
she's pretty thick and rough-and-tumble with her

timbre. She has her hair pulled up in a very tight
bun in the back. She has a bit of a smudge on her

chin. She says, "All who wish to enter the contest
please step right here, pay your entry fee!

"Graciously prove your might and your strength.
Show that you yourself are responsible for the

"rebellion succeeding." Sees you. "You! You wish to
be part of this, yes!"

TRAVIS: Yeah, I do!

MATT: "Very well, very well. Ah, entry fee--" She
leans in and gets real for a second. "Entry fee is

"25 gold pieces each. Winner gets free drinks and
the pot."

LIAM: I slap down 25 gold on behalf of Grog.

TRAVIS: (excited gasp)

SAM: You're paying for his entry?

LIAM: I'm paying for his entry, sure.

SAM: And mine, as well?

LIAM: No.

TRAVIS: Good man.

SAM: I would like to-- I would also like to
compete.

MATT: (prolonged high-pitched giggle) "Sorry. 25
gold then."

SAM: Here you go.

MATT: "I mean no offense, I just-- it's a cute
beret."

TALIESIN: (laughs) Wow.

MATT: Other individuals come and enter and you can
see as you guys are preparing for this event, you

hear the rattling of chains nearby and you can see
two guards stepping up with--

LAURA: The other goliath!

MATT: Goran Vedmeyer, who you've seen--

LAURA: The Duke!

MATT: Yeah, no longer Duke. Un-Duked.

LAURA: Once you Duke something, you can't un-Duke
it, Matt.

MATT: No, he's been thoroughly un-Duked, trust
me.

MARISHA: The Duke that was formerly known as--

TRAVIS: Duke Gonad.

MATT: Yeah. He's brought by two of the guards and
the guards whisper to each other. They bring out

their own 25 gold pieces and they plop it into the
pot. "He's entering as our proxy." He looks

around. "Yes, what they said." She gives a nod.
"Well, I don't see why not, I suppose. All right!"

Other people end up gathering up their change and
she goes over the sheet with one of her

compatriots and they end up breaking off into
teams. There are four tables set up and for this

round, at least, this part of the festival, they
break up in different parts. She calls out to one

table. "All right, we have a Jasper Leer to go
against a Scanlan Shorthalt at this table."

SAM: That's me!

TRAVIS: Yay, Scanlan!

MARISHA: Yes, Scanlan!

MATT: As you're getting ready, you see a
farmer-type individual. Clean, as dressed as he

could be in relatively ragged clothes, but he
looks like he's trying to be presentory for the

festival. Grey beard, longish shoulder-length
tousled hair. He walks up, pulling his wrist back,

and he's got some good muscles. Looks like he's
definitely been working a lot of heavy farmwork

for most of his life. He sits down at the table
across from you, gives you a look over.

"Well, shall we begin?"

SAM: Sure. Can I ever-so-covertly say to him, you
don't want to beat a gnome. You don't want to

beat a gnome. I'm casting Suggestion on him.

MATT: I will say, go ahead and make a
sleight-of-hand check.

SAM: Oh, the worst. Shit. 13.

LAURA: What does it mean? The eyebrows!

TRAVIS: And the phone came out.

SAM: Who knows? We'll find out when my arm gets
wrenched off.

LAURA: Looking at Jasper's stats, I can tell.

MATT: No, what are you talking about?

SAM: He's checking Twitter.

MATT: Yeah, got to respond to a couple-- guys,
give me a second. All right. So, he has his hand

up, he looks you over with a look of intensity for
a second. "Put your hand up."

SAM: Yes, sir.

MATT: He clasps his fingers entirely around your
hand at this point. As the intensity mounts, the

crowd gathers around, everyone begins cheering,
the barmaid steps up again. "All right, two of

"you, hands together. And prove your strength...
now!" Go ahead and make a strength check.

SAM: 19.

MARISHA: (laughs) Oh shit.

MATT: You guys stand there for a second (groans)
his arm begins to push on yours, begins to bend

back a little bit, you reflex with might and
begin to set him back up to the center. You've

reached a standstill, once again, back at the
center. His expression on his face looks

frustrated and surprised.

SAM: You weren't expecting this, were you? (pants)
Neither was I!

MATT: Make another strength check.

SAM: Not as good. 11.

MATT: 11. At this point, as you say that, he
tenses and forces down your hand now, right at

three-quarters to the table. Make another strength
check.

MARISHA: Come on, Scanlan!

SAM: 16!

MATT: 16. (groans) About to touch the knuckles--

SAM: What is going on? I had-- This has
never happened before.

MATT: He's keeping his hand to his side, trying
not to grasp the edge of the table, which is

technically against the rules. He's looking around
at everyone watching and realizes the sheer amount

of attention that's put on the fact that this tiny
little gnome is now keeping him at a standstill.

LIAM: I shout out from the crowd, Scanlan! Pike is
here! She's astral-projected in!

SAM: Natural one.

(laughter)

MATT: With that moment of distraction, you look
around and (wham) your arm hits the table. Cheers

go on, everyone shouts happily.

SAM: You idiot!

LIAM: All the blood rushed somewhere else, that's
not my fault.

SAM: I had him! (groans)

MATT: He lifts up his tankard to the side, someone
begins pouring ale into it. He shouts his victory

out, everyone cheers. The barmaid pats you on your
back. "You did good, you did good."

SAM: I don't need your pity! Grog, kick this
motherfucker's ass!

MATT: Two more events go by, two more gentlemen
have a showdown-- actually no, it's a woman and a

man. The woman is a pretty tough-looking warrior,
probably one of the guards of Castle Whitestone.

She's still in partial armor, has been guarding
the event, has taken her helmet off to be part of

this event, taking a moment to relax. She goes up
against another merchant of the town and just

destroys him. The next bout is a man who, the way
he's dressed, appears to be a blacksmith. He still

has his leather gauntlets on, he takes them off at
the table, takes off his leather apron and sets it

to the side. Gets down and ready and looks around
for his opponent and the two guards bring up the

chained Vedmeyer, who then sits down at the table,
the chains hitting against the sides of the wooden

table top and coasting to the ground as they
adjust. He puts his arm on the table with a thud,

and has to bend over to even reach the other guy's
grasp. You can see the look on his face

immediately pale as he realizes who he's up
against. It's two rounds and maybe 20 seconds tops

before Vedmeyer slams him so hard you can part of
the tabletop splinters inward and the guy brings

his hand back with bleeding knuckles. He reaches
over, puts his hand out expectantly. The barmaid

hands him a tankard full of ale. He downs it in
one gulp, slams it on on the table and stands back

up again. He glances over at you and steps back
into the crowd. The second round of the events go

in. You are paired up with the gentleman who
defeated Scanlan.

MARISHA: Kick his ass, Grog!

TALIESIN: Yeah!

SAM: Put him in a body bag!

TRAVIS: I sit down and I say, I feel really bad
for you mate. You know, my friend? He's got hand

herpes... So do I.

SAM: It's true.

MATT: Make a deception roll.

TRAVIS: 20! 19 plus one!

MATT: Natural one on his part. He looks genuinely
frightened and is about to back up and get the

attention of the barmaid who's running this event
and he sees the crowd around.

TRAVIS: I mean, you're a farmer, right? You handle
food.

MATT: He spits in his hand, puts it out and grabs
your hand. The barmaid once again. "And-- prove

"your strength!" Roll a strength check. He has
disadvantage.

TRAVIS: 21.

MATT: Natural one. He's already straining and the
back of his knuckles are immediately up against

the wood. You can see fear in his eyes and he's
gripping, but he's also trying to move his fingers

to make sure he doesn't make too much contact with
your hand.

Go ahead and roll another strength check.

TRAVIS: 11.

MATT: At which point, he sees the grin on your
face and gets his will back behind him and

(grunts) forces you back to the center. Make
another strength check.

TRAVIS: Oh, shit. Seven.

MATT: Natural 20.

LAURA: Oh no!

MATT: He (groans) slams you right over on the edge
of the table. Make another check.

MARISHA: Come on, Grog!

TRAVIS: 23.

MATT: 19. Back up to the center, at a standstill.
You see now the veins bulging at his neck, you can

see now, his face is turning red from the strain.
He's breathing heavily (pants) as he pushes again.

Make another strength check.

LAURA: Come on, Grog!

TRAVIS: Eight.

MATT: (chuckles) Eight. (groans) Keeping you right
in the middle. Make another check.

SAM: I hold up my hand and I use Minor Illusion to
make it all dotted with herpes.

MATT: He glances sidelong at your hand and
(whimpers). I'm going to give him disadvantage on

this one. All right, what did you get?

TRAVIS: 17.

MATT: 17. (laughs) With a disadvantage, he got a
six. (groans) The hand goes at three-quarters.

He's now looking at you, looking at Scanlan's
hand, looking at you, looking at his own hand,

he's really worried. Make another strength check.

TRAVIS: It's slippery when the pores start to
seep. That's a one.

SAM: No!

TALIESIN: No!

MATT: With a disadvantage, he gets a two. You guys
are at the middle again.

LAURA: Oh my god.

MATT: Big struggle.

TRAVIS: 22.

MATT: With disadvantage again, because of that--
though disadvantage is fading at this point. He

got a 12. So yeah (groans), now he's back down.

LAURA: Come on Grog, finish it!

TRAVIS: 22.

MATT: He got a seven. He looks at you, looks at
the hand, looks at you again and you can see in

his face, the sudden look of acceptance as you
stop playing with him and (whack) slam it really

hard on the wood. You can see, he pulls away...
(gasps) "Wash it! Wash it, please! Wash it,

"somebody wash it!"

TRAVIS: You know, the cure for that is actually on
my man Vax's groin. It's very magical.

MATT: He slowly backs into the crowd, looking very
disturbed and disgusted as everyone else is

cheering for you. A tankard is slammed before you,
filled with ale.

"Drink up, you've earned it, champion."

TRAVIS: I look at Gonad over at the side. I drink
it, chug it down, and hold up the finger at the

same time.

MATT: (laughs) He sits there and tenses for a second with a
grin, as he growls, his cold breath in the cold

Winter's Crest air dissipates up above him and he
gives you a nod, the slow look of warrior

intensity, but respect. You can see he's looking
forward to hopefully this as much as you are, but

he still has a battle to do himself.

LIAM: I've spent the last ten minutes while he's
kicking that guy's ass to find a soldier or

somebody in the crowd to bet.

SAM: A young boy?

LIAM: I'm not you.

(laughter)

LIAM: 200 gold on Grog. Somebody in the crowd.

MATT: Make a persuasion check.

TALIESIN: All right.

LIAM: 14.

MATT: Going around, you're hard-pressed to find
somebody who at this moment in time is interested

in betting any money against the goliath that
helped save the city. You find one gentleman who

seems a little interested and he gives you this
sidelong, sleazy grin. "Tell you what, not 200

"gold, but I'll put 50 down."

LIAM: That's not worth it. 75 gold?

MATT: "Step away, halfie."

LAURA: Oh! I heard it. I give him the evil eye.

MATT: He's too focused on the current bout at
hand. At this table, you can now see Vedmeyer and

the woman guard sits down. Someone's like, "Oh,
Trisha's wrestling."

TRAVIS: Her name's Trisha? Trish the Dish.

MATT: Vedmeyer, again with his chains against the
wood as he sits down with a smile. He gives her a

grin and nod. She's just-- intensity towards him
the whole time. You can see there's a little bit

of intensity to win, but you also see spite in
that look. You see that she knows what he's done

and this victory means more to her than otherwise.
The two of them-- first match, she pushes and gets

the upper hand. A three-quarter view perspective,
she's tensing herself, you hear the muscle tensing

beneath the armor itself, the metal creaking as
her whole upper torso begins to push into it. She

begins to push it back--

LAURA: Yeah! Trish the Dish!

ALL: Trish the Dish! Trish the Dish!

MATT: As you guys are shouting this and keeping it
going, she gets pushed back again into a defensive

position. You see the blood rushing to her face,
but he himself is starting to look really intense.

You can see there's surprise in his face from the
battle she's giving. She (groans) pushes him back

to the center, this back and forth, the crowd is
starting to get really intense. You can see the

shouting, the cheering, gets really quiet as
everyone is now breathlessly watching this bout.

She pushes to three-quarters-- He rallies his own
strength, but it's not enough, as she (impact

sound) onto the table. As she releases, she goes,
"You deserve that, and much more." She gets up and

walks away. The tankard is held out for her. She
pushes it aside and cracks her knuckles as she

steps away. Vedmeyer is there staring at his hand.
"Hmm. Fitting. It's a real pity, I was looking

"forward to fighting you."

TRAVIS: Well, get used to disappointment,
shithead.

MATT: At which point, his chains are tightened and
the guards lift him up again off of his seat and

he gets led off back into the crowd.

LAURA: Yeah, walk away, you beardless bastard.

MATT: As everyone gathers in now, you can now see
more discussions and people are starting to really

place bets down now on the outcome of this
circumstance. The barmaid comes up again. "You,

"champion Grog, sit down. And you, champion Trisha,
sit down. As the final round of this show of

"majestic might happens now. Hands clasped,
please."

TRAVIS: If I may, thank you for your service to
this city. That last round

was a true pleasure to watch.

MATT: Her face goes from hardened to soft for a
minute as she reaches out and clasps you, not hand

in hand, but forearm to forearm, and gives you a
solid shake. "I've done so little. You've done far

"more. But we all must do our part to keep the city
safe."

TRAVIS: Aye.

MATT: "But right now, I'm going to have to destroy
you."

LAURA: I kind of love Trish the Dish.

MARISHA: I know, I like her, too.

MATT: Her clasp on your forearm slides back,
keeping your hand. Both of you tense muscles,

we're talking Predator vs. Schwarzenegger.

TRAVIS: (Schwarzenegger accent) Yah, what's the
matter, Dylan? You guys ate too many pretzels?

MATT: (laughs) Just like that. As the crowd begins
to shout different names, you can see people

going, "Trish, Trish, Trish, Grog, Grog, Grog."
The voices are starting to grow and grow as both

of you are standing there focusing on each other.
You can see her tightly bunned dark brunette hair,

you can see these green eyes piercing through,
looking straight into yours with a bit of sly

smirk on the side of her face. You can see a
little bit of a scar on the outside of her face

that's longtime healed and you can see she's
definitely seen her share of battle, just from the

complexion and the intensity in her face.

MARISHA: She's one of us.

MATT: "For the final round, let this show of might
begin!" Strength check.

TRAVIS: Eight.

MATT: As the moment of tension hits, you can sense
there's definitely a balance, both of you are

keeping at bay. She cocks her head curiously and
forces you down to the three-quarter back

position. Go ahead and make another strength
check.

LAURA: Come on, Grog! Oh my god.

TRAVIS: Six.

LIAM: It's that sword's influence.

TRAVIS: Yeah, it's laughing in the Bag of
Holding.

MATT: She brings you right down to the edge of the
table and you can see in her face, there's this

genuine look of surprise, like she probably could
have finished you, but she feels like there's a

trick or there's something to it that she can't be
beating you this easy.

TRAVIS: I'm so surprised by what's happening. I
use Intimidating Presence on her.

MARISHA: Oh shit.

MATT: (laughs) Okay. Go ahead and make an
intimidation check.

TRAVIS: Fuck.

MATT: Does this have to be during a rage?

TRAVIS: 12. I'll go into a rage for it.

MATT: (laughing) It may have to be. Let's see.

LAURA: (laughing) Why weren't you raging the whole
time?

TRAVIS: I was hoping I wouldn't need it!

MATT: No, you don't have to be in a rage for it,
but you can choose to, if you want.

TRAVIS: it doesn't add anything to my strength
roll, right?

MATT: A 12 for intimidation? Well, what do you want
to do to try and intimidate her? She's about to

finish you off on this table.

TRAVIS: I'm like, oh! (grunts) and I bite down on
my tongue and blood just starts to pour out of the

corner of my mouth.

LAURA: Oh, gross!

MATT: She sees this, and her eyes go wide for a
second. She pulls back and for a brief moment, you

feel her grip loosen ever so slightly. Go ahead
and make the next strength check with advantage.

TRAVIS: Fuck. (laughing) It's unreal. 11.

MATT: 11?

TRAVIS: The other one was a one.

MATT: Well, I'm glad you had advantage on that;
she rolled a five. So you do manage to (groans)

force her back up. You're still in a bad place,
but you manage to pull out of that circle and you

can see now her intensity hits and she realizes
she's not going to go soft on you at all going

forward. But as the blood pools down your chin,
you can feel the iron-y taste swishing around in

your mouth and you can see there's a little bit of
a quiver to her. She's still spooked by this whole

circumstance, but she's trying her best. Go ahead
and make another strength check.

TRAVIS: She's battle-worn. 19.

LAURA: That's good!

MATT: That's good. She has disadvantage on these
because of the fright. I'm giving her that, but

even still, she still rolls a 17. What did you
roll, total?

TRAVIS: 19.

MATT: 19. You guys keep it-- she's still holding
you there, you're not able to gain any ground.

You're really impressed by this display she's
giving you. Roll again.

TRAVIS: Do I have advantage? No.

MATT: No.

TRAVIS: 12.

MATT: 12? Okay. She forces you back down--

SAM: I step forward and I sing a song of
inspiration.

MATT: What are you singing?

SAM: I sing, (sings) let's go raging now,
everybody's learning how, come on on a rampage

with me!

TALIESIN: Come on on a rampage with me!

MATT: All right, take a d10 inspiration, as you
hear the song break through the intensity and you

know that Scanlan's presence alone in itself and
his fine ditties means that you can do this.

TRAVIS: Fine ditties!

LIAM: Show us your ditties!

TRAVIS: 16.

MATT: 16?

LAURA: With the ten inspiration.

MATT: With the ten? Okay. It's good you did that.
You force her back up, she starts like, really

pushing into it and you can see now the sweat's
dripping off of her brow, her eyes are quivering.

Make another check. How long does that last?

TRAVIS: Seven.

MATT: Seven. Hold on.

LAURA: You should switch.

SAM: Grog, what are you doing?!

TRAVIS: (laughing) I don't know! They're so low!
It was all those free rolls during the two weeks

when I rolled 20--

SAM: Oh my god, do you really have hand herpes?

(laughter)

MATT: What did you roll?

TRAVIS: Seven.

MATT: Seven. Yeah, she still beats you. So, at
this point, you're pushed down.

She gives you this look--

TRAVIS: This is unreal.

MATT: Yeah. Of intense anger-- and her face
softens and she gives you a nod of respect. (thud)

Releases her grip and pulls away, holds her arms
up, crowd goes wild. The drink is slammed in front

of her, the ale swishing and spilling over the
side. She takes it in one hand and slides it

forward and hands it to you.

LAURA: Aw, she's a good lady.

TRAVIS: You are a true warrior and I hope you'll
continue to protect this city with that strength.

MATT: "I intend to." She gives you a nod, walks
around, accepts her coin purse and steps back into

the rest of the celebration.

TRAVIS: I walk away (coughs), coughing (coughs),
trying not to cry. (coughs) I take my tankard and

splash it on my face. Oh, it's just ale. It's just
ale. (sobs)

SAM: It's okay, Grog. Let's go get you drunk.

MATT: As this is happening, a courier comes up
dressed in colors that are reminiscent of the

courier service that travels through Emon, through
Westruun. There's a certain type of overcoat they

wear that gives you the inclination that they've
traveled from nearby civilization. Steps up with a

rolled up sequence of letters and a small box that
is wrapped up.

MARISHA: Oh look, the young boy you ordered,
Scanlan.

MATT: He's in his mid-20s.

(laughter)

MATT: He's asking around. "Looking for a Percival
and a Vox Machina. Percival?"

TALIESIN: I'm Percival.

MATT: "You're Percival?"

TALIESIN: Yes.

MATT: "I'm to deliver this to you." He hands you
the small box. "I have here two small letters."

And hands them over both to you. There's a small,
thin one that is actually written to Percival, and

there's one addressed to Vox Machina.

TALIESIN: I was going to sit here and watch you
roll them.

MARISHA: Presentation's lost.

MATT: That's fine.

SAM: I just noticed Taliesin's outfit, by the
way.

LAURA: We were supposed to wear pajamas.

TALIESIN: I wore my pajamas. My muppet pajamas.

MATT: Yeah, the week got busy and we forgot.

TRAVIS: You don't want me in my pajamas because
they're--

MATT: That one's to you and the other one's to Vox
Machina.

SAM: (sings) Letters, we've got letters.

TALIESIN: Oh, this is quite interesting. "Vox
Machina, a little bird tells me you have been

"playing the heroes again. Keep this up, and the
whole world will end up indebted to you. Please

"accept this small gift in the spirit of Winter's
Crest, as a token of my enduring gratitude.

"Perhaps it will prove useful in a difficult
moment. In the meantime, I look forward to a

"fuller account of your deeds reaching us in
Vasselheim. A joyous Crest to you all. It seems

"you have earned it. Lillith."

LAURA: Oh!

TALIESIN: "P.S., Zahra sends her greetings."

SAM: (dreamily) Zahra.

MARISHA: The tieflings!

SAM: We had quite a night together. Just braiding
each other's hair.

TALIESIN: I tuck the private note away and put it
in my pocket.

TRAVIS: Yeah, there's another one, right?

MATT: There is a box, yes.

LAURA: Oh, is it big enough to hold a giant
carpet?

TALIESIN: Perhaps a small ice egg.

MATT: It's about that big in your hands.

TALIESIN: We open the box.

MATT: You open the gift. Inside, there are two--

SAM: Check it for traps!

MATT: (laughs) Make a reflex save-- no. As you
open it, you see inside there are two crystalline

stones that both identically look like that.

LAURA: Okay.

TALIESIN: It's been a while since we had a visual
aid.

MATT: Yeah, it's nice when you have a really good
artist, apparently. But two stones like this. They

are called Gate Stones.

SAM: Gate Stones?

MATT: The two stones are essentially linked. One
is placed wherever you like and the other is kept

with you. A single individual, just an individual,
not a group, can take a minute to concentrate on

one stone and be instantly transported to where
the other stone is, with the stone.

TRAVIS: Badass.

LIAM: One-way ticket.

MATT: Essentially, yeah.

TRAVIS: You take it with you and you can zoom back
to wherever you left it.

SAM: There are two stones in this box?

MATT: Yeah. They are the two that are linked.

TRAVIS: A person or linked?

MATT: No, there is a single set.

MARISHA: So this is a get out of jail free card.

SAM: Or a bamf-in-Pike card.

MATT: There's multiple situational uses for it,
depending. But apparently this has been

painstakingly either enchanted, constructed, and
sent by Lillith for you.

LIAM: They're all from Lillith?

MATT: Yeah, the letters and those two stones.

SAM: From Lillith and Zahra?

MATT: And Zahra, both of them, essentially.

MARISHA: Yeah, Lillith doesn't have the other
stone?

LIAM: For a little arcane booty call?

TALIESIN: I don't know what you're talking
about.

TRAVIS: Please?

TALIESIN: No.

LAURA: I don't think I've ever seen Percy giggle
before.

TRAVIS: Are you blushing?

TALIESIN: No. It's cold. Very cold.

TRAVIS: It's a new demon, isn't it? The blushing
demon!

TALIESIN: She was great, wasn't she?

SAM: Lillith is a true friend. Zahra, as well.

TALIESIN: Zahra is great, as well.

MATT: You hear murmurs now, people mentioning the
pie-eating contest starting soon.

SAM: Vex and Vax!

LAURA: All right, we'll give it a go.

MATT: As you guys make your way over there, we're
going to go ahead and go to our break. We're at

the middle point here, yeah. So it's going to be a
longer break guys, because we've got a little

present for you. I know for a while we've been
talking about this work we've been doing on a

pre-stream story of Vox Machina's adventures that
you guys hadn't had a chance to really

experience. So, through all of us doing our
individual narration, as well as the wonderful

Wendy Sullivan doing incredible work on 50 pieces
of art for this, and using music from actually

some of our Critters that sent us some great
musical tracks, we have been able to present to

you over the next 20 minutes, the story of Vox
Machina, the beginning. So, enjoy guys, we'll see

you here in a moment.

TRAVIS: Yeah!

MATT: The grandest of adventures often stem from
humble beginnings. The story of Vox Machina is one

such a tale. They begin as a ragtag group of
mercenaries in the swamp town of Stillben, eking

out a living, when a job board posting brings them
to Fendril Vas, the wealthy head of a small

merchant empire.

Hired to investigate new competition in town
called The Myriad, the path eventually leads them

into a chamber housing a planar rift, pulling the
group into the plane of the stillborn god

Crysa-Thul. It is revealed that the contract was a
ruse to feed the party to the undead, fetal deity.

Upon destroying the abomination, the party returns
to repay Fendril's deceit

with a blade to the throat.

LAURA: Weeks pass, and Grog the barbarian hasn't
been seen since suddenly leaving for the city of

Westruun. Heading there in search of him, the
party meets his childhood friend, and their new

companion: the gnome cleric, Pike. Grog apparently
hasn't been acting normally, and had marched off

on his own through the Bramblewood towards the
ominous mountain, Gatshadow. The party followed,

dispensing with a troop of roadside thieves along
the way, and wound their way toward the mountain.

Deep within, they encountered an abandoned
subterranean city and eventually a crypt housing a

mind-controlled Grog, the reanimated corpse of his
father Strongjaw, and a dying mage attempting a

ritual to Lichdom. Our heroes slayed the mage, but
not before he could complete the ritual and embed

his phylactery into Grog's chest.

Returning to town in search of aid, they find
there are few of enough knowledge or power to

ascertain the nature of Grog's wound. Also, rumors
of missing children begin to reach the party's

ears. While contemplating all this at a local inn,
the party is approached by a mysterious elf named

Drez Vina who wishes to pay handsomely for the
party to infiltrate an archmage's tower, and

retrieve a particular brass box within.

Pushing forward in the hopes of speaking with this
archmage, the party accepts, and passes through

arcane trap after trap to reach the top of the
tower, deciding not to steal from the archmage but

instead parley with him for his aid. The tower's
keeper, Realmseer Eskil Ryndarien, agrees to help

and sends the party to collect two items he
requires for the ritual: the skull of a nightmare

and the heart of a nymph. The caveat: their
defeated foe is indeed a lich now, and in merely

two weeks, he will be reborn within Grog!

They travel north to the Umbra Hills, wrestle with
a small cult to slay their infernal messenger and

his nightmare steed, and find a fresh companion in
Percy, newly freed from imprisonment. From there,

the party rushes south to the Frostweald, a forest
shrouded in eternal winter. Battling past

basilisks, the party finds a single, unfrozen pool
where they coax a nymph from her dimensional

sanctuary. Talking their way out of battle, Grog
enters the sanctuary with the nymph, and returns

holding a jewel gifted by the beautiful creature:
the "heart" of the nymph.

LIAM: Traveling back to the archmage, the ritual
is completed and the phylactery destroyed in time,

but not without some lingering necromancy branded
within Grog. They are suddenly approached by the

mysterious elf again, saying his master is unhappy
with the broken contract, and he demands that either

the debt be paid, or the party complete a more
difficult contract in its place. The party

accepts, and heads into the Shade Barrow, an
ancient druid burial chamber that was purchased

and renovated by an eccentric lord who made it his
own tomb. Fighting the denizens of the barrow,

they locate the tomb and the iron golem guarding
it. Successfully defeating the golem, they tear

the Arcane Cortex from its chest and return it to
Drez to square their debt.

After a bit of R and R, a clean-shaven dwarf named
Grimthorne propositions the group to enter a

nearby, underground fighting ring, even offering
to represent them. The party agrees and,

not surprisingly, manages to pull off a victory.

With the holiday of Winter's Crest arriving, the
town bustles with preparation for a festival,

during which a strange blue crystal is delivered
in the name of Archmage Eskil. This crystal

suddenly detonates, freezing the entire populace
of Westruun in ice-- though the party is protected

by a sudden ally in the streets. In a last-ditch
arcane effort, a mystic merchant named Noja

manages to shield the group from harm. And where
the crystal previously rested now stood a pale,

nude woman of white hair and frail physique. She
opens a portal and leaps through, the party giving

chase into what seems like an icy, frozen world,
chaotic and elemental in nature. They catch up to

the woman, who then reveals her true self: a great
white dragon. Weakened by her premature "rebirth",

the party manages to defeat her, and upon
returning to Westruun, discover its people

released from their icy prison.

With the archmage Eskil Ryndarien now on trial for
the attack on Westruun, the party intercedes and

proves his innocence. In thanks, Eskil uses his
talents to investigate the source of the blue

crystal, revealing the powerful society of thieves,
known as the Clasp, responsible for its delivery.

Vax, having previously been a member of the Clasp,
knows the main headquarters lies within the

capital city of Emon, and Vox Machina sets out for
the west.

ASHLEY: Upon arriving in the sprawling metropolis
of Emon, the party continues to hear of children

disappearing, and reports of a black-haired,
golden-eyed boy befriending them before they

vanish. While investigating, they do a few odd
jobs, one of which unexpectedly leads them to the

home of Syldor, Vex and Vax's father, and his new
wife and child. Awkwardness aside, Syldor is here

as ambassador to Syngorn, the elven city of their
origin, to seek aid from the Sovereign Uriel

Tal'Dorei.

However, the political climate of Emon is tense
with a recent, failed attempt on the royal

family's life making Uriel unreachable at the
moment. Syldor's connection within the Council has

now gone missing, and his mission stands at a
complete standstill. He hires the party to look in

on this missing ally, Sir Gregory Fince, and get
his ear back to Syngornian business.

Vox Machina finds Sir Gregory's home dark and
still, pushing them to infiltrate and investigate.

Within, they discover a dark presence in the home,
leading them into a battle with demons in the

basement. The battle won, Sir Gregory's tortured
corpse is found, as are his notes about the

attempted assassination on Uriel and his family.
It seems that since the attempt, the royal family

has grown strange and withdrawn, keeping Uriel
from the council most hours, and his wife now

demanding she attend all meetings, whispering in
the Sovereign's ear and scoffing at the others who

defy their decree.

A General Krieg thwarted the attempt, and is
mentioned often. The party decides to inquire with

him. On their way out of the basement, half of the
party falls into a trap, tumbling into a cistern

and are flushed deep below into a subterranean
river system. The trapped party members-- Vex,

Keyleth, Grog, Tiberius, and Percy-- come to rest
on a small island in the vast Crystalfen Lake,

home to a terrible aboleth!

Barely escaping, they eventually discover the base
remnants of an ancient town, long toppled, and a

small hut that contains a clever hag named Trysta.
Tiberius finds one of his prized artifacts and

makes a dangerous deal to acquire it. The party
barters for information on how to escape, which

Trysta will give... in exchange for their aid in
slaying a newly nested denizen that threatens her

work. The party agrees, climbing to the very top
of the Crystalfen Cavern to do battle with an

umber-hulk. The fight goes south when Grog is
tossed from the cavern ceiling, nearly dying upon

impact with the island, but victory is eventually
theirs. Returning, Trysta shows them a hidden

staircase that exits into the Graveyard District
of Emon.

TRAVIS: The other members-- Vax, Pike, and
Scanlan-- set out to find where the cistern could

have drained to. Scanlan leaves to seek out a map
of the sewers, while Vax and Pike notice they are

being followed through the town. Leading the
pursuers into an alley, the shadowed figures

attack, eventually knocking them both out. Vax and
Pike awaken within the Clasp's headquarters,

meeting with one of their leaders, or Spirelings,
named Modeth. The Clasp had Sir Gregory's home

under surveillance, as bad political stuff can be
difficult for the way the Clasp does business, and

when our heroes were spotted leaving, they had to
be interrogated.

Vax reveals his membership to the Clasp sect in
Westruun, and Modeth calls for a test of their

skills and intent. Pike and Vax are then forced to
do battle with a chained chimera in the Clasp's

arena. Their might rings true, and the beast falls
beneath their weapons, but Modeth is not

convinced.

While the two are held overnight, they manage to
escape from the Clasp's lair, exiting into the

night and managing to locate the rest of the party
in the Graveyard district. Knowing their next step

is to speak with General Krieg, Vax forges a
letter of summons using Sir Gregory's handwriting,

and the party is allowed entry into the carefully
guarded Cloudtop District, the innermost area of

the city and home to the Citrine Garrison, as well
as Emon's Palace.

Approaching the garrison, they have an audience
with General Krieg, who seems nice and keenly

interested upon learning of the Clasp's
involvement. He also mentions the difficulty in

talking with Uriel since the attack, and is sad
about the death of Sir Gregory, but warns to leave

the investigation to the officials.

Vox Machina then heads to the palace to try their
hand at speaking with Uriel, but entry is barred.

They find another is being prevented from
entering, a golden-haired woman in fancy blue

robes who angrily stomps away from the palace
doors. They engage her in conversation, and she

reveals herself to be Allura Vysoren, a powerful
arcanist and member of the Tal'Dorei Council.

They discuss the state of things within the
palace, how Uriel is a good and trusted man, but

his actions (and those of the Empress Salda) are
recently suspect. After seven days of being kept

from the council chambers, she's about to give up
and leave. The party tells her of their findings,

and Allura leads them to her tower within the
district to further discuss the matter in

private.

SAM: Within, Allura and the party make an
alliance, and Keyleth aids her in performing a

scrying ritual on the palace. The vision reveals
that the family of Uriel-- his wife, two

daughters, and son-- are all under the influence
of some demonic force, and have addled the mind of

their father, using him as a mouthpiece for their
plot.

The party decides to pay a visit to the Clasp,
using Vax and Pike's knowledge of an entrance, and

end up in a confrontation with Spireling Modeth
within his chambers. The battle ends with Modeth's

head on the floor and four strange, glowing
crystals he had been keeping now stolen by the

party. They attempt to leave, but are met by a
host of Clasp members and another,

dangerous-looking Spireling. Through Scanlan's
deft lies and coercion, the party is allowed to

leave unharmed before their deeds are discovered.

They return to Allura's tower only to find the
front door ajar and the interior tossed by some

previous scuffle. As they reach the top of the
tower, they investigate, finding signs of a

struggle with a demonic entity, and Allura's
escape seemingly successful. Unfortunately, a

magical defense of the tower is triggered, and it
begins to cave and crumble around them. Through

some ingenuity-- and the discovery of a magic
carpet-- the party manages to escape being crushed

within, Allura's ivory monolith now compacted into
a single, magical pearl.

Our heroes then locate and enter the home of
General Krieg, finding a brainwashed servant and a

hidden passage that leads to a teleportation
circle. Using the device, they are transported to

a distant cavern, high in a range of frost-covered
mountains, and an incredible hoard of gold,

jewels, and fine trinkets. Across the room are
four obsidian orbs placed within the rock. As one

is touched, a giant eye appears from within the
black crystal and a voice erupts, calling for a

Brimscythe, and noticing the unfamiliar folk,
mentions, "Intruders... I know your face now. He

"is a fool, and so are you, insect." The orbs all
crack simultaneously, becoming inert.

Grog dives right in, rage-looting the gold, but
the arrival of the party seems to call the

attention of General Krieg, who appears at the
teleportation circle. He angrily denounces the

party and reveals his true form, that of a
frightening blue dragon!

MARISHA: The battle is difficult, with many an
ally nearly devoured, but eventually Vax strikes a

mortal blow. Krieg, or Brimscythe, defiantly
smashes against the support pillars of the cavern

in his death throes, causing the chamber to
collapse, the party barely escaping via the

teleportation circle.

Leaving Krieg's home, Allura finds the party and
warns that the evil that feeds on the throne is

growing more bold. She herself was attacked
shortly after the scrying was complete, and barely

escaped.

As dark clouds fill the sky above Emon, the party
decides the time to strike has come. Allura aids

the party in infiltrating the palace, and they
storm the throne room. Uriel sits upon his throne,

surrounded by his creepily mannered, possessed
family. Vox Machina attacks, managing to banish

the shadows from within their bodies, but the
throne itself cracks in half as the dais below

glows a deep red, summoning the entity behind the
entire scheme: a devil prince called Juurezel, who

tells the party of a great war between devils and
demons spilling over into this plane, threatening

all creation. He justifies his actions, and notes
all the demonic forces throughout the city, and

tells them of the horrible devastation that will
ensue if the party stops him.

They read him as honest, and Juurezel asks for
their aid in destroying the demonic threat,

offering a single Wish should they make a pact.
The party deliberates and agrees to the contract.

Thinking over what they had just agreed to, the
party returns to the throne room, asking for their

Wish to be provided to aid them in their demon
hunting. Upon its casting, the party wishes to

cancel their contract with the creature, and
attack!

The devil prince angrily reveals his true form, a
hideous treachery demon, a glabrezu. A long,

deadly, and epic confrontation ensues, one that
suddenly claims the life of the gnomish cleric,

Pike. Her death fresh in their minds, Vox Machina
deals the killing blow, sending the demon to its

unmaking.

They gather up the cold body of their fallen
friend and rush her to a nearby temple of

Sarenrae, where a resurrection ritual is
attempted... and succeeds.

TALIESIN: The clouds disperse, the immediate
danger over, but the royal family lies on the

throne room floor, catatonic. Upon inspection,
their souls are missing and their bodies failing.

The party recalls the four glowing orbs they
recovered from the Clasp headquarters behind

Modeth, now identified as soul jars, and through a
rigorous and tense evening, all souls are

successfully restored to the family.

A few days pass, and Sovereign Uriel Tal'Dorei
calls the party for audience. He thanks them all

for their bravery, heroism, and for saving him,
his family, and quite possibly all of Emon. As

thanks, he offers them a place on the Tal'Dorei
Council and informs them of his intent to throw

another Winter's Crest festival to make up for the
ones ruined in Westruun, and here via

assassination attempt, where they will be
celebrated as heroes! He has also commissioned the

construction of a keep for them on the outskirts
of Emon as a sign of his very deep gratitude.

A week later, the festival begins! The populace is
out in full force to meet and celebrate Vox

Machina, but during the festivities, the party
notices Uriel's son Gren speaking to another

child-- one with black hair and golden eyes. They
immediately spring to apprehend the child, but he

escapes with Uriel's son. They give chase,
following him into an alley, and through a portal

of some kind.

The party finds themselves atop a large island
drifting through the Astral Plane, surrounded by a

perilous bramble forest. They fight their way
through, eventually coming upon a gothic mansion

towards the center of the landmass. Within, the
party makes their way to the inner library, where

numerous kidnapped children are working all about
the place, cleaning nervously.

The Dread Emperor, as he calls himself, stands
from his chair, the child illusion fading into a

golden-armored man with long, black hair, four
children chained at the neck to his breastplate.

He attacks the party with fierce magic,
mind-controlling all of his child servants to

attack as well. With the first blow dealt, they
realize that damaging him also hurts the chained

children, one boy accidentally falling in battle
to Keyleth's magic. Eventually, they succeeded in

destroying the Dread Emperor and return to Emon
with a host of lost children, happily now found.

Six months of peace follow as their new keep is
constructed, and the party scatters to their

separate business until its completion. Upon their
return, they assess their new abode with delight,

naming it Greyskull Keep. They then send out job
inquiries, seeking guards for hire, and servants.

After an impromptu try-out, they settle upon their
new hires.

MATT: That evening, the party receives a visitor
in their friend Arcanist Allura Vysoren. She

happily sits with the party for dinner, and trades
tales of their past months, before asking if she

could hire their services for a matter of great
personal importance. Allura's longtime friend and

ally, Lady Kima of Vord, has gone missing,
following a vision quest from her deity, the

platinum dragon Bahamut. Her last letter spoke of
an evil taking root beneath the dwarven city of

Kraghammer, and Allura worries for her safety.
While Allura is unable to go herself, she can

provide the proper paperwork for entry, and would
pay handsomely if they could find, aid, and return

with Kima.

Vox Machina agrees to the new contract and sets
out for the city of Kraghammer the very next day.

As for the rest of their journey... the legend of
Vox Machina is still being written.

MATT: Hello! And welcome back. I hope you guys
enjoyed your little look into the past of Vox

Machina. Once again, thank you to everyone who
helped us with that. Huge thanks to Wendy. You

were amazing in putting that together for us. It's
been a long-time endeavor coming.

LIAM: We love you, Wendy.

MATT: And all the wonderful Critters that are
incredibly talented put the music together and we

are very thankful that you helped us fill out the
soundtrack. If you didn't catch all the names,

they're at the bottom of the credits and hopefully
we'll have that video up separately on the website

soon, so people who couldn't make it tonight will
have a chance to see it for their own. That being

the case, when the rest of them decide they want
to join us, those who are going towards the pie

eating contest. You start pushing through the
crowd, making your way towards the two long tables

that are set up. At this, you can see there are a
pair of bakers that are standing there with stacks

and stacks of various pies of various flavors they
have been preparing, all different colors and

shapes, just pushed into a pile, as people are
gathered around, excitedly sitting at the table.

LAURA: Is Trinket allowed to join in the pie
eating contest too?

MATT: (laughs) You can ask.

LAURA: (laughs) I do.

MATT: Okay, one of the bakers is sitting there.
"All right, all right. So sit there, everyone's

"got a table. We have room for about four more."

LAURA: Oh.

LIAM: Right here.

MATT: "All right, three more."

LAURA: And a bear. Is there room for a bear?

MATT: "A bear. Like, a bear?"

LAURA: Yeah, but a very human-acting bear.

MATT: "Oh, sure. Bring him in. No! It's a bear!
Two more, room for two more."

TRAVIS: Do you want me to join?

LIAM: Can someone transmogrify Trinket, quickly?

LAURA: (gasps) Can you Polymorph Trinket,
Keyleth?

MARISHA: Into what?

LAURA: A human.

LIAM: To a hot man.

TALIESIN: To a lumberjack.

LAURA: Into a lumberjack of a man?

MARISHA: I don't think it works that way.

LAURA: Try it!

TALIESIN: Old Spice commercial. Make it happen.

MATT: You can certainly try.

MARISHA: I try it.

LIAM: Winter's Crest magic!

MARISHA: I believe. I believe in the spirit of
Winter's Crest.

LAURA: Can you Polymorph Trinket into a man?

SAM: Sure.

LAURA: Scanlan says he can.

MARISHA: I think Scanlan actually might have a
better chance with Seeming?

SAM: I can Polymorph Trinket.

MARISHA: But can you Polymorph animals into
people?

MATT: Technically, you could, yeah.

MARISHA: I can?

MATT: Technically. I don't see why not.

MARISHA: Sure. Yeah, I'm going to make him real
beefy. He's got pecs that can lift semi-trucks.

All right?

MATT: Okay.

MARISHA: Fur, just fur--

SAM: Furry belly? What is that?

MARISHA: Like that guy in the beginning of
Barbarella.

MATT: So you turned your bear into a bear.

TALIESIN: Brian Blessed.

MARISHA: Yes.

LAURA: Here's my bear, right here.

MATT: So you rush off and you come back with
Trinket. As you can see, he's walking a little

strange and (bear moans) Rolls up and brushes his
scruffy man beard against the side of your face.

You gather, Polymorph does not affect the
intellect of whatever you transform.

LIAM: I grab a mug of ale and go: another one,
right? Yeah! He's had so many!

LAURA: So drunk, this guy!

MARISHA: Wait, wait, wait. Grog, do we still have
that helmet, that pot that you wore on your head,

in the Bag of Holding?

TRAVIS: Yeah.

MARISHA: Can we have that real quick?

TRAVIS: Yeah, okay. So I reach in and take out the
big bronze pot.

MARISHA: I put the pot on his head.

LAURA: Why?

MARISHA: It's special.

SAM: Oh, he has a helmet head?

MATT: So the pot, which covers Trinket's head...
(bear moans)

LAURA: He does not need a pot on his head.
Trinket, have a seat in this chair like a normal

human.

TRAVIS: You can give that back to me.

LAURA: Here you go.

LIAM: I keep giving him ale.

MATT: Okay. (laughs) What is going on? Okay. So,
at this time, you guys have people gathered around

now. You guys all take your places at the table.
You have to put your feet planted, everyone

pushing elbow to elbow. You guys sit down amongst
yourselves in a cluster and you eventually guide

over as your fourth at the end of your group, your
Polymorphed bear friend who's still (confused

moans) messing with his manly ham hands.

[no audio]

MATT: "To eat..."

LIAM: I do not have much confidence. You have
always eaten more than me, always.

MATT: "Now!" Dive in face first, arms behind you,
just tearing through these pies. Just

blackberries, strawberries, all forms of berries
just being tossed everywhere. There's a couple

chicken pies--

LIAM: No hands, no hands!

LAURA: Oh, no hands?

MATT: No hands, no.

LAURA: Trinket, no hands.

MATT: Trinket goes like, (inquisitive grunt).

LAURA: No hands! No paws!

MARISHA: (laughs) No paws! No paws!

SAM: I'm going to use Message to communicate to
Grog: If there was ever a time for a prank,

now is it.

TRAVIS: Oh shit.

MATT: As you all tear through your first large
pies, smeared across the faces, with your mind off

to the side, you glance over, everyone go ahead
and make a constitution saving throw.

SAM: Constitution? Oh, he's going to barf.

LIAM: 20, Natural 20!

LAURA: Oh, you rattled the table, it was 15, then
it fell over.

LIAM: Oh, sorry, Charlie.

LAURA: Seven for me, because he rattled the damn
table, because he's an asshole.

LIAM: Yeah. Separate issues.

LAURA: And then Trinket rolled a 21.

MATT: All right, Grog?

TRAVIS: Oh, I'm not eating.

MATT: Oh, you're not eating?

TRAVIS: I thought it was just you two guys.

LAURA: It was us and Trinket.

MATT: Okay, all right, cool. So, the three of you
tearing through. You finish the first pie. The

second pies slam down, you all look at it, you
have a little moment. Close, but not too bad. You

gather yourself and dive into a second round of
pies, splashing all over the table.

LIAM: I elbow my sister, then dive into the pie.

MATT: (laughs) Trinket is having a hard time
keeping the hands behind. You can see one of the

bakers suddenly come by and hold the hands back.
(growls aggressively)

LAURA: He's really drunk! Don't touch him too
much.

MATT: "All right, just keep--"

LAURA: No hands, Trinket.

LIAM: He lost half his family here, in the attack
on Whitestone.

MATT: More and more pie crust being tossed aside,
the table is a mess. The bakers are starting to

scoop off whatever is left over off to the side
into buckets. As you finish the second pie, make

another constitution saving throw with the DC
increasing with each progressive pie.

LAURA: Oh. (laughs)

TRAVIS: Wow.

LAURA: Natural one for me.

LIAM: Oh boy, I got a big six.

MATT: All right.

LAURA: Come on, Trinket!

SAM: (whispers) Luck!

LIAM: Yes, thank you, Scanlan. I got a big seven.

(laughter)

LAURA: 14 for Trinket. I rolled a one.

MATT: Yeah. Okay, so as you both finish your
secondary pie, you both sit up and look at each

other with dark purple berry filling down the side
of your face. You both make eye contact at the

same time, as you both go (vomiting sound) and
release your fresh payload into the pans before

you. Baker comes by, slamming the hand down.
"Disqualified!" You look around the side, you

aren't the only ones. A number of other
individuals have dropped out now. You're down to

five people at the table that are still eating,
one of which is Trinket, who finishes his second

pie. Food smeared all across the face, getting all
in the beard. Some of it has dribbled down into

the chest hair, it's a pretty terrifying sight.
Third pies are slammed down on the table.

These last five individuals and Trinket.
Have Trinket roll another

constitution saving throw.

MARISHA: Come on, Trink!

LAURA: You want to inspire him?

MATT: You're adding your modifier, right?

LAURA: 13.

MATT: You're adding your modifier, right?

LAURA: What modifier?

MATT: His constitution modifier.

LAURA: Yeah.

MATT: All right, so this time, everyone finishes
this last pie. Two of the individuals end up

having to stop, just duck out, have to run off out
into the crowd. Three of them make it through,

Trinket just barely finishes the third pie.
(gulps, distressed growls) He gives you that look

of like, (distressed growling).

LAURA: Buddy. You can keep doing it! I'll give
you--

SAM: Food?

LAURA: I know, I got nothing. A nice nap. You can
have the bed tonight and I'll sleep on the floor.

MATT: (pants) He looks over and another pie is set
down, the fourth round of pies go down. The last

three and Trinket join in. Make another
constitution saving throw for Trinket.

LAURA: Okay. It was almost a fucking 15. 15.

MATT: A 15? Total?

LAURA: Yeah. Oh no.

MATT: That set of pies finished, two of the
remaining three end up getting up partway through

the pie and one of them vomits off to the side.
The other one stops, stands up and walks away,

going (distressed noises). Spits out the food in
his mouth in his hand, re-examining his life. The

other remaining gentleman finishes the pie.
There's sweat down his face (panting), you see the

little bit of a chinstrap beard he has just
covered in berries and bits of crust, this awful

appearance. Trinket finishes the last bits of the
pie (chomp, distressed bellow).

LAURA: Oh, I feel so guilty right now!

LIAM: Why is he so good at being sad bear?

LAURA: I know! Don't be sad bear, be happy bear!

TRAVIS: 300 gold!

LAURA: It's just 100 gold.

MATT: Make a persuasion check.

LAURA: Oh, a persuasion check for Trinket?

MATT: Yeah.

LAURA: So he'll keep eating?

MATT: Yeah.

LAURA: Oh, buddy. 15?

MATT: 15. Trinket looks at you.

LAURA: I love you.

MATT: (distressed growls)

MARISHA: You're like a Toddlers and Tiaras mom
right now.

LAURA: I know. This is the worst. I'm the worst
mom.

MATT: Looks down and across the table, the
gentleman who's also there scoots over right in

front and goes, "May the best man win, eh?"
Trinket goes, (loud growl).

LAURA: Get angry! Eat angry!

MATT: There are bits of pie spattering across him
on the ground. Two pies (thud) brought down in

front. These are not fruit pies. These are meat
pies.

TRAVIS: Oh! That's so wrong!

LAURA: That's okay, Trinket likes meat way more
than fruit.

MATT: Then he goes, (distressed groans, sniffs).

LAURA: Is it a salmon pie? He likes fish.

MATT: Constitution saving throw.

TRAVIS: With advantage, because it's meat?

LAURA: Beause it's salmon. It's a salmon pie, and
he loves salmon.

MATT: (pauses) Hold on. There do appear to be
hints of fish inside. I will grant you advantage

on this saving throw.

LAURA: Okay. Fucking balls, mother bitch.

MARISHA: Advantage?

LAURA: I did roll with advantage. 11.

MATT: 11. Both of them dive into their pies,
coasting through. At a certain point, Trinket

stops and (pants) breathes heavily in the pie. You
can see bits of it over the edge, just from the

nostril flare, looks up at you (distressed
growl).

LAURA: It's okay, buddy. It's okay.

LIAM: I instinctively move behind Vex.

MATT: The gentleman across the way looks up as
well and is like (pants heavily, groans). They

both dive into the pies together again, slowly,
trying to make their way through and then in a

moment, they both look up at each other and their
eyes make a connection as a look of sudden fear

and realization hits both of them. They both sit
up and with but a moment's notice, the two bakers

set down two pails at their side as both of them
simultaneously just... buckets. Losing

simultaneously, at which point both of them raise
their other hand mid-expulsion. "We have a tie! A

"victory! Both winners lasted quite a ways,
splitting the pot, that's 50 gold each." Everyone

cheers, yay!

ALL: Good job, Trinket!

MATT: (weary growls)

LAURA: You don't have to eat anything else if you
don't want to.

MATT: (growls)

LAURA: Okay.

TRAVIS: He gets to sleep on the bed.

LAURA: You get to sleep on the bed and I will
sleep on the damn floor.

MATT: Trinket steps up and pushes away from the
guy and goes running towards you on his

hands and knees.

(laughter)

MATT: (growls) Everyone goes like "Whoa-- " as he
runs by and starts nuzzling you.

LAURA: Oh, this guy. This guy is so drunk!

TRAVIS: There was some mold in those pies!

MATT: The baker hands you a sack of gold. "For
your friend."

LAURA: Thank you.

MATT: When he's feeling better.

TALIESIN: My favorite kind of pie.

LIAM: I come over to my sister with two big mugs
of ale and hand one to her and say, here, don't

swallow the first one, just swish around and spit
it out, then the rest.

LAURA: Okay.

LIAM: That's a good one.

(laughter)

MATT: At this point, you can now hear voices start
to raise, people going, "Oh, the Keeper, the

"Keeper's going to speak." The people start
gathering towards the center of town where the Sun

Tree is. As you all begin to gather for this
central moment of the festival, Keeper Yennen

steps up. Cassandra steps up with him and you can
see he's looking over the crowd, eventually

meeting Percy's gaze.

TALIESIN: All right.

MATT: He leads you up onto the stage. The three of
you stand out amongst the rest of the crowd as

everyone gathers. The children are sitting in the
front, expectantly with their hands under their

legs, looking up with big smiles. Some of them are
covered in candy and whatever else they've managed

to acquire throughout the festival. The music
begins to slowly die down until silence hits and a

small cold breeze begins to blow through, as you
see a couple of fresh flakes of snow begin to fall

from the sky above Whitestone.

The Keeper looks out over the crowd as the hush
takes the rest of the group. "Friends, families,

"brave soldiers and defenders of this wondrous
city. We gather today to celebrate for the first

"time in many years, our own Winter's Crest
festival." There's some clapping. "It is on this

"day that we remember, centuries ago, when Erevan,
the Ice King, Keeper of the Far Realm of Ice and

'the Elemental Planes, attempted to tear his way
into Tal'Dorei, was kept at bay and sent back

"packing from whence he came." There are some
cheers from the crowd. "In this, we also are

"reminded of family, reminded of friendship, and
the bonds that we as a people keep ourselves and

"our families safe, that we rise up to the occasion
to show true heroism. To stand by our beliefs and

"not let the darkness swallow our hope. And by
that, we are able to bring to you, this day, the

"surviving members of the de Rolo family: Cassandra
and Percival."

You hear some whistles from the crowd and some
cheers well up again. Some shouts, "de Rolo!"

some yells from the crowd. Keeper Yennen puts his
arms out. "These two, among friends, Vox Machina,

"the intrepid adventurers from Emon, spearheaded
our freedom, from the terrible, tyrant ruin that

"the Briarwoods had set us upon. So today, we
celebrate not just our joint friendships. We

"celebrate true heroism and give thanks that there
are still"-- looking to you, Percy-- "people who

"will do whatever it takes to rise to the good of
this land." He looks to Cassandra. "Who in the

"long run, know the right choices to make and
amongst the darkness, still choose sight of the

"light. May we all raise our glasses to the
prosperous future of this city amongst the

"Alabaster Sierras and to the continued future of
the de Rolo family."

Everyone raises their glasses up. "Huzzah!"

(cheering)

MATT: Cheers, everyone drinks, the music swells
again, people begin to cheer and scatter and

Keeper Yennen leads you guys off of the stage. The
rest of you gather up as some people come up and

shake hands and express their gratitude and
thanks. As the crowd begins to die off a little

bit, Keeper Yennen gives you all a look and
beckons you over. "If you wouldn't mind, a moment

"of your time. I think there are a few things we
need to discuss."

TALIESIN: Of course.

MATT: "Cassandra?" She comes as well. And you all
step off out of the festival for a while. A few

folks attempt to follow to see what's going on.
Some of the guards usher them away. You guys are

led into an empty building, looks to have been a
home of some kind that has long since been

abandoned. As you step inside, it's cold and still
in here, very low light other than a little oil

lantern that's been lit by one of the guards as
you step inside. The door closes behind and Keeper

Yennen turns around. "There is no real way that we
can show our appreciation for what you've done for

"our people. But first and foremost, there are
funds within the de Rolo family treasury left

"behind by the Briarwoods that we hope could help
compensate for some of your expenditures and

'hardships you've undergone."

LAURA: So many, just so many.

MATT: "This is, of course, at the behest of the de
Rolo family,

"who are the inheritors of this fortune."

MARISHA: Thanks, Percy.

LAURA: Percival, you're looking very attractive
today.

TALIESIN: I know.

TRAVIS: Very appropriate.

MATT: "Now, we've had a few weeks of peace and
recovery, of rebuilding and reforging the real

"bonds of this society here in Whitestone. But
going forward, there needs to be a governing

"force. I would like to ask of your wisdom and
guidance, all of you, in deciding on what is to

"become of the future of this city. There are many
options at our disposal. I'm overseeing a myriad

"of things throughout the town and as a man of
religious importance, given the history, the

"people have recommended it does not behoove me to
take any sort of position of ruling in this town.

"It would be natural, of course, for the people to,
without question, follow anyone of the existing

"bloodline." He looks both to Cassandra and to
Percival. "Have you any thoughts on this matter?

"Any of you?"

SAM: Of our members, only this one human over here
on his hands and knees, is the expendable one of

our group.

LAURA: Hey.

MATT: At which point, the strange, burly man on
all fours, at this point, Brother-- who did not

really notice, goes, "Is that your bear?"

(laughter)

LAURA: Maybe.

TALIESIN: Yes.

MATT: "Strange folk. "

SAM: I don't think any of us would-- well, Percy,
if you'd like to stay and rule?

LIAM: Freddy, this is everything you've worked
for.

SAM: This is your birthright and you've earned
it.

TALIESIN: It was really not my birthright. I was
not raised to rule.

SAM: But you would be a fantastic ruler.

MARISHA: And also sometimes, those birthrights are
thrust upon us.

TALIESIN: I still have work to do outside the
city. Ripley's still on the loose and knows far

too much. And I feel more than a little
responsible for her and what she may do. Honestly,

Cassandra had a better upbringing than I did for
this sort of work.

MATT: At which point, Cassandra pipes up and goes,
"Well, I understand what you're saying, brother,

"but I'm still rediscovering who I am. If the
people of this town knew what I've done, what I

"was responsible for all these years."

MARISHA: You mean surviving being held hostage,
surviving an ambush and being pelted with arrows?

TALIESIN: They expect better of us, I know. I
understand. We are held to a different standard.

And it's difficult. Perhaps it's time for a
council. Perhaps it's time for shared rule. There

should always be a de Rolo in Whitestone, but
perhaps we could share the weight.

MATT: "We could. I could."

TALIESIN: Yennen, would you be comfortable sharing
some of this burden?

MATT: He's taken aback and thinks. "Well, in the
sense of a council that you're recommending, that

"would be certainly a more comfortable position for
one such as myself. There are a number of

"community leaders that have really stepped up and
shown their true quality. Yes, this could be done.

"We'd have to ask the people, of course, of the
city and make sure that that would be all right

"with the folks, but I think given the way things
have been, that shouldn't be too hard of a sell."

LAURA: Do the de Rolos still stay in the giant
castle? Or does that go to somebody else, then?

TALIESIN: I think the de Rolos keep the castle,
but I think we use the castle to--

SAM: Wait, would you be on this council? And who
would they be counseling? Is there no superior

primate? Is there no, there's no--

MATT: "I believe what he's suggesting is that we
make decisions by council, by vote."

SAM: A triumvirate.

MATT: "If you will."

TALIESIN: Quintumverate.

SAM: Oh, four people?

TALIESIN: Five.

TRAVIS: A flatterdesplat.

SAM: Flibbertigibbit.

TALIESIN: A religious leader, someone from the
farming communities, someone from the economic

community, someone from the trade community--

SAM: Someone from the gnome community.

TALIESIN: From the citizenry.

SAM: From the gnome community.

TALIESIN: From some known community, yes.

SAM: I accept.

TALIESIN: Interests will be thought of and there
will always be a noble to be a tiebreaker when

necessary and to judge from a place of (sighs)
greater good.

MATT: "Cassandra?" She steps back at this point
and she looks, her hands shaking visibly. She

looks up to you and steps forward and reaches up
and puts her hand to the side of your face and

looks to you with a piercing honesty and fear. She,
lower lip quivering, whispers to you. "Percy,

"can I be trusted? Do you trust me?"

TALIESIN: All things considered, I think that
you're more trustworthy than I am, at this point.

Let's not forget that I was the one who let you
down first.

I'm going to give her one of the stones.

LAURA: We were-- no, that was for the whole group!
That was for the whole group, Percival.

MATT: "What is this?"

SAM: It's done.

LIAM: Leave it alone.

LAURA: (muffled) That's was going to save your
fucking life later.

TALIESIN: You're going to be so happy when we have
instant access to the treasury.

LAURA: All right.

TALIESIN: If anything bad should happen, if
there's any need of quick retreat or quick

communication, this is a one-way trip to us. And
in return, this is a one-way trip for us to you,

in case of emergency.

MATT: She clasps it in her hand, holds it to her
chest.

TALIESIN: You were born for this. You were
instructed in how to do this, where I never was.

LAURA: And now you've got four other people
keeping an eye on you.

MATT: She smiles and closes her eyes. "What you
say is true." She looks over at each member of

your group and looks back to Keeper Yennen. "If it
so pleases this intended council, It would be my

"honor to represent the de Rolo bloodline in
keeping this town safe."

Keeper goes, "Then so be it. I shall inquire with
the people of this town. We will forge a council

"voted by the greater peoples of this place. And we
shall restore Whitestone to its former glory. Very

"well. Go, enjoy the rest of your festival."

SAM: What was that cash prize? You had mentioned
some sort of--

MATT: "Well, talk with Percival."

TALIESIN: I will organize--

LAURA: Oh, you have to give it to us? It has to
come from you? That feels shady.

TALIESIN: Let's not forget that within six hours
of meeting each other, I ended up handing over an

enormous sum of money to you.

LAURA: It was actually 500 gold.

TALIESIN: It was quite a bit of gold, if I recall.
You have it written down, don't you? That's so

endearing.

LIAM: Is it?

(laughter)

MATT: "Very well. Enjoy your festival, you've
earned it. Go out, be merry. Let us all remember

"this time of year, the bonds that we carry, the
loyalties that we hold to, and the heroism you

"stand for. Now go." At which point, the guards
open the door and he steps out. The cold air

rushes in, and you can see now, quite a bit of
soft snowfall is now coming upon

the center of the town.

LIAM: I'm sorry, is there a washroom here? My
sister's a little drunk and managed to yak on me a

bit and I would really love to wash up a bit.
Anywhere nearby?

MATT: He points off to the side. There's a small
bucket of cold water that's set by the side.

LIAM: Okay, I use it.

MATT: You manage to dampen your outfit to the
point of getting it off, although it is a bit cold

when you step outside now.

LAURA: Can I follow him for a moment?

MATT: Sure.

LAURA: I haven't talked to you very much lately.

LIAM: No, you haven't.

LAURA: You seem a bit off. Yeah. What's going on?

LIAM: Nothing. I'm tired. We can relax for the
first time in weeks.

LAURA: I noticed your girlfriend isn't talking to
you. Did you do something?

LIAM: I will tell you just about everything, but I
don't think I want to talk about that.

LAURA: All right. I leave, as well.

MATT: All right. As the rest of the party joins,
you all step out into the cold afternoon air. You

are immediately greeted by the sound of music,
laughter, and cheer. The rest of the festival

continues on into dusk and you can't help but find
the joy in the air infectious.

MARISHA: Percy.

TALIESIN: Yes?

MARISHA: I actually have a present for you.

TALIESIN: Really?

MARISHA: Yeah, it comes with a story.

TALIESIN: (laughs) All right.

MARISHA: You're the only one I-- should we go get
drinks? Maybe we should go get drinks first. Let's

go get drinks and then I'll give you your
present.

TALIESIN: All right. In that case--

MARISHA: Alcohol makes everything better.

TALIESIN: Alcohol does make everything better.

LAURA: Speaking of presents, even though you're
being kind of a dick.

LIAM: Wow, you ran fast to catch up with me.

LAURA: I was going to buy you something, but then
I realized sometimes old is better than new.

SAM: It's an old person.

(laughter)

MATT: Vox Machina's favorite!

MARISHA: Kill it!

LIAM: Already dead.

LAURA: You know what that is?

MATT: As you open the package, you see before you,
a familiar belt of leather, with a coiled snake on

the buckle.

SAM: How did you get that?!

LAURA: I've got ways.

SAM: It was in Uriel's palace, wasn't it?

LAURA: I'm a really good winker, if you haven't
noticed.

TRAVIS: She is.

SAM: Did you wink somebody for that? You slutty
little thing.

LAURA: (laughs)

LIAM: Hello, Simon. (slithering sound)

(laughter)

SAM: Oh no, it's just a real snake, it's biting
you!

TRAVIS: Revenge achieved!

LIAM: I am too embarrassed to look her in the eye,
and stare for a moment, but then finally, still

not looking at her because she's fucking freaking
me out, pull her into a hug and say, I love you,

Stubby. I'm never going to leave your side, I'm
always going to be there. You can always be a pain

in the ass like you are. I love you. Always have,
always will. Thank you.

LAURA: Thank you. And then I slap him across the face.

LIAM: What the fuck was that for?

LAURA: I love you, too.

MARISHA: When I was helping the farmers clean up,
I had this strange moment where I was walking

through the field and saw a dead raven.

SAM: Here it is.

MARISHA: (laughs) More or less. It caught my
attention and it made me think about the past

several weeks, what we've been through and
everything. Don't know-- who knows, it probably

died, actually, in the rebellion. Maybe my ice
storm killed it or something.

TALIESIN: You're doing very well.

MARISHA: Thanks. I was looking at it and it
reminded me of everything and I feel like I was

instantly trying to forget about everything
because I don't want to remember. But we should.

And I don't want to remember you the way you were.
Because it was scary, and I didn't like it. I like

you now. So I took the dead bird and cleaned it
and kept its skull and put it in this box for you,

as a reminder of what you could have become. What
any of us could have become, really, at any time.

Because we shouldn't forget.

TALIESIN: Thank you.

MARISHA: It's a little macabre and I would have
bought things, but we're out of money.

TALIESIN: I won't forget.

MARISHA: I'm glad that's not you.

TALIESIN: I can't even think of what the revenge
felt like anymore. It's not... it doesn't weigh on

me. Just regret.

MARISHA: Regret?

TALIESIN: Of how much better I could have been.
Thank you. I will try to be better.

MARISHA: No better than you could have been.
There's still a lot to come, you know.

TALIESIN: That's my plan.

MARISHA: I think we all wish we were better than
we could have been. Seeing that bird, I'm sure the

bird felt the same way. But fuck it, he's dead
now.

TALIESIN: (laughs) You're strange, you know that?

MARISHA: I know, I'm sorry.

TALIESIN: No, we like it. Don't change.

MARISHA: I'm glad you didn't change.

SAM: Grog, I got you an Amazon gift card. It's a
forest called the Amazon. You can go there and get

a gift.

TRAVIS: Is it far?

SAM: Oh, really far, you'll never use it.

TRAVIS: Re-gift!

LIAM: Well guys, Vox Machina is now free and clear
of all evil influence.

(laughter)

MARISHA: No shadowy demons. Feels good.

TRAVIS: Feels good!

MATT: With that, Vox Machina continues to enjoy
the joyous affair that is the Winter's Crest

festival. Snowfall slowly covering the night sky
as the sun comes to dusk. You withdraw to tell

stories, sing songs, and drink merrily as the
friends you are, looking forward to the next

chapter in your adventure. And with that, we're
going to go ahead and close the Winter's Crest

episode of our adventure and leave you guys to the
holiday break. We have a couple cool announcements

to make. One, we had our winner earlier from our
subscriber count, we hit a hundred. Our winner, if

they haven't already announced it, is
Saxecutioner.

SAM: Saxecutioner.

MATT: You'll get yourself a cool care package
we're going to ship out to you.

MARISHA: I think the Boonzy Arts candle is going
out.

MATT: Yes!

TALIESIN: Boonzy Arts candle. Scent-sy
Saxecutioner.

MATT: Indeed, indeed. Let's see, we'll be gone for
a few weeks until we come back for our next

episode. We're on our holiday break, we're going
to get our stuff taken care of, but we'll be back

as soon as we can.

LAURA: Do we know what date that is going to be
at?

LIAM: I mean, we come back next Thursday, right?
Again, right? We play again every week. Every

Thursday.

ZAC: The seventh.

MATT: The seventh. And I think Zac has something
you wanted to mention.

TALIESIN: Did you have a thing, Zac?

MATT: Come on in, buddy.

ZAC: So, I have fairly serious announcement, I
guess. Hopefully our cameraman Ryan already left

for Star Wars. And sorry to like pull the rug out
from under you guys, but this is officially my last

Critical Role in person. I have been hired to be
CEO of a new media company in collaboration with

Harebrained Schemes, up in Seattle. And I start on
January first. So, this is my last one, so I just

wanted to tell you guys, thank you. Thank you to
the community. This has been one of the most

amazing years of my life. It's been really cool to
see what we've accomplished as a community, as a

group, being cool on the internet and not dicks
has been really cool. As an audience, like you

guys and all of us and the amount of money we've
been able to raise for charity. I can promise you

that the channel's fine, the shows are fine.
Lucas will be taking over the commander-in-chief

position, so Lucas!

MARISHA: Lucas!

TALIESIN: Lucas!

ZAC: Most people don't know--

MARISHA: The man behind the curtain.

ZAC: The man that runs the boards. So Lucas is
getting a promotion.

MATT: Yes.

ZAC: He's back there.

LAURA: I see his legs. He's not walking this way.

ZAC: He's not moving. Tomorrow, we're going to
have a big party. It's going to be my last stream

on Geek and Sundry. It's going to be a big party
to celebrate. It'll be a lot of fun.

We're going to do some dancing, we'll have
some special guests coming by. And he's going to

widen the camera just so he can get in the shot.
We're also going to be knighting Lucas tomorrow

night, so you guys should definitely tune in for
that and watch us knight Lucas. We've been

training him up, getting him ready. But again,
thank you everyone for this amazing experience.

You can follow me on Twitter if you want to know
more about what's coming up. It'll be in a couple

of months, we'll be launching that and I'll make
sure to keep streaming on my channel and Lucas, of

course, will continue the spirit. We'll still be
in communication, everything's good. So you know.

(laughter)

ZAC: There's no hard feelings at all. I'm not
dumping a load of shit on him and walking away.

LUCAS: We'll figure it out.

ZAC: We'll figure it out. Everybody, so thank you
guys so much. I don't really have anything more to

say other than thank you.

MARISHA and TRAVIS: Overlord, Overlord.

MATT: I don't think you guys truly, as an audience
understand exactly how much he's done to build

this channel, the blood, sweat, and tears. I mean,
both of them!

ZAC: Literally, not figuratively.

MATT: Zac has made us all feel so comfortable and
so excited to create this whole thing and has

given so much of himself and put so much of
himself into this and really, if you have the

opportunity on Twitter or wherever else to follow
him to his new job, let him know and feel the

appreciation. He's awesome and an amazing human
being and we're going to miss him terribly. But

we're so happy and excited for your new ventures.

ZAC: Yes!

(Overlord theme)

ZAC: I'm going to exit on that.

LAURA: Huzzah to Zac!

ALL: Huzzah! Huzzah to Zac!

MATT: All righty.

LAURA: It's still going.

MATT: There we go. Cross straight over. That song
goes on for a while, too. There you go. All right,

so. One more quick little exit here for you guys
before we go on holiday break, we've had a special

guest, came in today to check out the stream. Big
fan of his work for a very long time and extremely

proud he came to watch the episode and he's been
live-tweeting throughout the evening, but he wants

to come in and give a little holiday hello as
well. We have to the cameras, come sit next to me in

this chair, the illustrious Chris Perkins.

(cheering)

MATT: It's everything I hoped it would be!

LIAM: He's made of dice!

CHRIS: What's on tap for next year?

MATT: Oh, you'll find out. It's all positive!

CHRIS: Oh, really?

MATT: No.

CHRIS: I have some suggestions.

MATT: Okay, we'll talk.

(laughter)

TRAVIS: Let us live!

LAURA: He's going to kill us all!

MARISHA: I will say, I feel like the DM power, the
balance--

LAURA: It's over 9000!

MARISHA: It's over 9000!

TRAVIS: It's like if suns meet.

MATT: Terrible things happen behind this.

CHRIS: This is a real treat for me, thank you.
Thank you everybody.

MATT: Thanks for coming, sincerely.

CHRIS: No, this is magic.

MATT: Go ahead and roll this for a second. I'm
just curious.

CHRIS: Okay. Whoa.

MATT: Yeah, it's a fan-made die. All right, yeah.
It's a 15. Oh wait. It's like a Sputnik die. So he

rolled a 15. That's DM rolling right there. That's
upper teens, yo.

CHRIS: I rolled a 20.

MATT: Oh, there we go. See, there we go. Natural
20. Thank you so much for coming by, man.

Seriously.

CHRIS: I really appreciate it. It was great to
hang out. Watch the magic happen. My favorite

quote of the night was, "Don't be sad bear, be
happy bear."

(laughter)

CHRIS: I'm going to use that one. Take that one
back with me.

MATT: Go for it. So guys, next year, look forward
to the next Dungeons and Dragons module,

"Don't Be Sad Bear."

TRAVIS: Yes!

MATT: I think it's for levels three to seven.
It'll be really great. For those who aren't

familiar with Chris, he's been a longtime dungeon
master inspiration for a lot of us out there,

who's put up a blog for a long time with a lot of
great tips and tricks and discussions on what

makes a great story, what makes running a great
game. If you aren't following him right now, you

should, on Twitter at--

CHRIS: I don't know.

TRAVIS: Oh no!

CHRIS: @ChrisPerkinsDnD.

MATT: There you go. So, that should work out well.
Thank you so much for coming.

CHRIS: Thank you.

MATT: I appreciate that. And guys, happy holidays
and happy New Year. We'll see you--

ZAC: I forgot, I have one more quick announcement.
I can't believe I forgot this. So, I was talking

to the mods about it and some other people, maybe
I told them. So I'm going to challenge you guys in

the chat, my one last final challenge to you all.
I am going to get a tattoo to commemorate my year

at Geek and Sundry here. And I would like that to
be of you guys's design. So I'm going to challenge

you guys on the internet to tag me and a week from
today, I will Periscope me getting a tattoo that

someone in the chat room designed. Most likely a
Snugglelord; it'd be cool if it was a

Snugglelord.

TRAVIS: I'm pretty sure I'm going to draw you a
cock and balls.

ZAC: Travis wants me to tattoo a cock and balls.
So, as long as it can be a cock and balls with

Travis's face.

MATT: I'll vote for that.

TRAVIS: A big veiny triumphant bastard.

MARISHA: How about Snugglelord riding Travis's
cock and balls?

ZAC: You've been challenged. You've been
challenged. But I definitely want to do that to

always have with me a little memory from this last
year. I really honestly can't tell you guys how

much this year meant to me and I want to make sure
that I will never forget, even if my brain starts

to fall away. I'll be like, oh look, Travis's--

LAURA and MARISHA: Cock and balls.

TRAVIS: He was so good at Halo.

MATT: Yeah.

(laughter)

MATT: Well, nothing could possibly go wrong with
that. So go ahead and get your designs together,

submit those and see if you could be responsible
for designing a permanent piece of illustrious

Overlord's body. Wow. I'm excited for that now.

TRAVIS: Let's let the gates open.

MATT: Exactly. You guys, happy holidays.

MARISHA: One more announcement. Sorry, I lied, one
more.

MATT: This is like Lord of the Rings. This is
Return of the King. It's got seven endings.

MARISHA: Yeah, well, it's going to be a double
feature. There will be a finale to the comic strip

of the Winter's Crest festival, so keep checking
the Geek and Sundry website because I believe it's

going to go up on Christmas Eve, actually. So
yeah, check it out.

MATT: Fantastic.

MARISHA: Still more stuff.

MATT: All right. Anyone else?

LAURA: Is there going to be a Critical Role
marathon or something coming up soon?

MATT: Are you guys playing Critical Role over the
holidays?

LUCAS: At some point.

MATT: At some point, there'll be a marathon.

TALIESIN: What a perfect time to get your friends
hooked.

MATT: There you go, it'll be on the Twitter.

ZAC: Lucas will let you know when it's up.

MATT: Lucas will let you know.

MARISHA: There is a bajillion hours' worth.

LUCAS: So, the plan is, the mods will be creating
a Twitch playlist, so it won't show up as us being

online. It will say we're offline, but you can
come to our actual Twitch page and there will be

marathons of each show individually. Critical Role
will be later on. It's not going to be the first

one that we marathon and that will be for probably
a week and a half until I get into the studio and

make actual playlists and you'll get that e-mail
that says-- probably not Critical Role, but just

an entire streaming marathon-- I don't even know.
I'll figure it out. I've got a week and a half to

figure it out, but there will be a playlist coming
right up. Next Monday.

LAURA: All right! Good announcement! Good job!

(cheering)

TALIESIN: Hail the new king!

ZAC: First announcement!

MATT: They grow up so fast!

(air horn sounds, laughter)

MATT: Awesome. Well, I guess then we'll relinquish
you guys to watch your Star Wars.

TRAVIS: Oh, actually--

MATT: (frustrated growl) I will smash your mini. I
would never do that. I painted it. Far too long.

All right, guys. Seriously, happy holidays, happy
new year.

LAURA: Happy holidays.

TALIESIN and MARISHA: Happy Winter's Crest.

MATT: Indeed. Bye guys.

LIAM: I have a snake!

TRAVIS: See you on the other side.