MATT: So first and foremost, we'll get our
announcements out of the way as fast as possible.

First thing I want to announce, with a little help
from our resident gnome bard here today: Scanlan's

playlist on Spotify went up on the website. Do you
want to talk a little bit about that?

SAM: Go log on to GeekandSundry.com, slash "find
it on that site somewhere."

MARISHA: It's on the front page right now.

SAM: And you can find it on Spotify. There's some
cool songs on there.

TRAVIS: That's baby-making music right there,
baby.

SAM: Yeah. There's some panty peelers in there,
too.

LAURA: Oh god.

MATT: That's a terrible term.

SAM: I wrote it in the song description. Somebody
edited it out.

(laughter)

MARISHA: Oh no.

TALIESIN: Well.

MATT: Go check that out, guys.

LAURA: Go check that out, guys.

MATT: Exactly. It's actually a pretty great
playlist; I've been listening to it all afternoon

while prepping for this. By the way, it's really
interesting to write stuff for the current

scenario in Whitestone with some Marvin Gaye in
the background.

TALIESIN: Are we going to feel that influence in
tonight's game?

MATT: I certainly hope not. Also, next cool
announcement: our first Critical Role comic came

out today. Our four glorious first panels starting
off the past adventure of the party in Westruun

for their first Winter's Crest Festival. So yeah,
there will be one four-panel comic coming out each

week to go through the six week run of this
storyline, written by our fantastic Taliesin Jaffe

and Marisha Ray over here, and drawn by the
incredible--

SAM: Sam Riegel.

MATT: No. (laughs) @WendyDoodles on Twitter. You
guys know her as Wendy. She's one of our official

artists. She's absolutely amazing. She's our
artist for this run. So show her some love.

LIAM: Endlessly charming.

LAURA: Yes, she is.

MATT: Very much so.

ZAC: Really quick announcement that I forgot to
put on the document. Hey, guys. We are still in

sub-only chat tonight, but we will be doing a
giveaway at the half if we reach the sub goal,

which is every 100, and I think we're 93 away from
the next one. So if we hit 11,500 before the half,

there will be a giveaway, and we will open that up
to everyone watching, not just subscribers only.

So anyone watching, don't fret. You still have a
chance to win stuff.

MATT: And what is in the giveaway?

ZAC: Tons of shit. Signed posters, D&D stuff. It's
just a box of awesome shit.

TALIESIN: www.TonsOfShit.com

MARISHA: Don't look that up.

TALIESIN: Don't look that up. It's just going to
make you unhappy.

LIAM: We got a big fat care package from Kurtis
Wiebe, who is the writer of Rat Queens, so we have

collected volumes. I think the first volume or two
of Rat Queens. There's some t-shirts, so some of

that will probably be finding its way in.
Obviously, we love Rat Queens.

LAURA: Obviously.

MATT: We like to fill your care packages with tons
of cool shit. We throw random things in there for

you guys, as well. Cool random things, not just
random things.

MARISHA: It's like Critical Role's favorite
things.

MATT and LAURA: Yeah.

TALIESIN: We'll be putting out a catalog.

MARISHA: Yes.

TALIESIN: Critical Role's most favorite things.

MATT: Cool, so check out the comic strip.

ZAC: There is a fucking broom behind you.

MATT: There is a broom. Get that out of there.
There you go.

TRAVIS: It's because we're going to sweep these
Briarwoods under the carpet!

ALL: Whoa!

SAM: That was quick. Love that one.

MARISHA: So good.

MATT: Are you?

(laughter)

TALIESIN: I've got another character ready to roll
when this all goes down.

MARISHA: No! You can't have a plan B already.

LAURA: I don't have a plan B.

TALIESIN: Much like my parents, I have no plan B.

MATT: Laura, if you want to take this away, we
have some new merch, apparently, that just went up

in the store.

LAURA: Oh my goodness gracious! So yeah, starting
today, there will be a couple of Critmas hoodies

available in the Geek and Sundry store, so
Marisha, if you want to hold up one?

MARISHA: Ready?

LAURA: There's black and green. You guys should go
on the website and check it out, because all the

little details are freaking amazing.

TRAVIS: There's ugly Critmas sweaters.

LAURA: And these are designed by Kenneth.

TALIESIN: Yule poop! There's yule poop here.

SAM: Aw, there is, and it's singing!

LAURA: There's a little Trinket and there's Minxie.
And there's a Pepperbox shooting bullets

TALIESIN: And then there's arrows.

LAURA: And there's "dagger, dagger, dagger."

MARISHA: It's a Critmas sweater.

LIAM: I just tweeted out links to the store from
the @criticalrole twitter handle.

LAURA: So they're the coolest, and then I know
everybody was talking about how the "How Do You

Want to Do This?" shirts were sold out. Those will
be coming back very soon, and there is also "How

Do You Want to Do This?" mouse pads for those
people that don't want to wear anything and just

want to surf the web.

TRAVIS: Watch us, au naturel.

TALIESIN: I'm now wondering how much of our
audience is currently-- no, never mind.

SAM: Just wearing a mouse pad?

(laughter)

MATT: For those who don't know, I don't wear pants
during this show.

LAURA: We're like newscasters.

MATT: Exactly.

TALIESIN: He's so hairy, we hardly notice.

MATT: It's true, I'm like a satyr.

(laughter)

MARISHA: This is escalating quickly.

TALIESIN: I've got plastic on my character.

TRAVIS: A satyr! Draw that shit first.

(laughter)

MATT: No, damn it. Oh man. Yeah, we had a lot of
great feedback from people saying that shirts were

great, but we want to expand into other parts of
merchandise people were requesting, so we're

starting to do that.

LAURA: Yeah, there's some other cool things coming
up, too, but that's what's available now.

MATT: We've been trying to be creative to make
sure you guys have stuff if you want it,

especially for this season.

TALIESIN: Oh, and just to do it again since we
haven't done it enough, please do check out the

Spotify links and the comics. Go to the actual
Geek and Sundry website because the more traffic

the Geek and Sundry website gets for you guys
going there to look at our stuff, the more excited

they are to do cool stuff for us, so if you want
more of this, definitely go there.

LAURA: Well, also if you go to the website, then
you can see the blurbs that we wrote about each of

the songs and the explanations about why we chose
them.

MARISHA: We each picked fanart.

SAM: What I do is I favorite the geekandsundry.com
website. I check it every morning when I wake up.

That's what I do. It's my news in the morning.

TRAVIS: I think I'll do that tomorrow morning.
That's a great idea. That's imitatable.

TALIESIN: We have so much stuff we want to do for
you guys. We have grand plans.

LAURA: Grand slam plans.

TALIESIN: Thank you, ma'am.

MARISHA: Thanks, Denny's.

MATT: All right, cool. Next up, just to remind you
guys, most of our actual show announcements and

stuff go up on our @criticalrole twitter handle,
and we have all our personal ones, but that's our

central place for all Critical Role-related
business and announcements, so if you don't

already follow that, you should because all our
cool stuff goes up on that. Also, today's

donations and our donations for a while are going
to be going towards a new charity, pushing towards

Doctors Without Borders, to help support people in
crisis around the world. It's a wonderful

organization. We're going to play a video with
information about it during the break today, but

in a world that is filled with a lot of
positivity, there are dark places and there are

dark things and people need aid, so we're hoping
to do what we can to try and give to those

circumstances, so check it out at the break and if
anyone who is able to help give to that,

please do so.

TRAVIS: Solid.

MATT: Let's see, a couple other announcements. We
will be off next week for Thanksgiving because all

of us have families to see, so there will be no
Critical Role next week, unfortunately. I think

we'll be doing-- are we doing a rebroadcast of
something?

ZAC: We'll probably do a rebroadcast of all the
episodes.

MATT: Okay.

LAURA: Like a marathon?

ZAC: Sure, why not.

MATT: Or just 24 hours of a close-up of a turkey.
A turkey I cooked, so undercooked. But yeah, so we

won't be here next Thursday, but we'll be thinking
of you lovingly in the process, and we'll be

returning the Thursday after that to continue the
story.

TALIESIN: You'll be DMing a game for your family,
I would assume.

(laughter)

MATT: No, it never ends. No, I'll be eating
copious amounts of pumpkin pie, probably.

LIAM: You are now Homer Simpson in hell with
donuts just going in.

(laughter)

MATT: More, more! Yeah, so there's that. Other
cool announcement, this week saw a video game

release of Star Wars: Battlefront.

TRAVIS: It's so good.

MATT: I haven't had a chance to play it yet,
because Fallout.

LAURA and MARISHA: Because Fallout.

MATT: But that's next on the list. But you can
hear both me and Marisha in Star Wars: Battlefront

as stormtroopers.

(cheering)

MATT: Both to kill you if you're rebels or to do
better if you're with the Empire.

MARISHA: This is the first time they're really
focusing on female stormtroopers,

so it's pretty cool.

MATT: I think it's rad. So apologies for being
yelled at by us.

Anything else you want to go over?

TRAVIS: Yeah. Sam. Put your hand up by your face.
Now high five me while I high five down on the

count of three. One.

SAM: Wait, do I go up or down?

TRAVIS: You're going straight down, straight up.
One, two, three (impact noise). Did it work?

SAM: Did it work?

TRAVIS: I've got to go lower. One, two, three
(impact noise).

SAM: Ah! So strong!

(laughter)

LAURA: I want to see if it works.

TRAVIS: You've got to wait 20 seconds.

(laughter)

LIAM: Switched over to PayPal. While he looks at
that, one last thing. We are, as always, friends

with Wyrmwood Gaming. If you want beautiful wooden
boxes in all kinds of colors and patterns, go to

Wyrmwood Gaming, and if you use the code CritRole,
you will get free shipping.

LAURA: Say it again. CritRole.

LIAM: You'll get free shipping. Hey, one nerd
helping out another.

TRAVIS: They are so sexy.

LAURA: They are very sexy. And they have magnets
in them to keep your dice protected when they're

in your other bags. Your Bag of Holding.

MARISHA: Christmas is just around the corner.

MATT: It keeps my Critmas bronze? Thank you.

TALIESIN: Oh yeah, you've got your little mini.

MATT: I know I'm so excited I have a mini! I'm not
even in the game, really, but I am.

LAURA: That's Gilmore's mini. Any time Gilmore
talks, can he have that mini?

MATT: No. I'm going to one day do a Gilmore mini
in private. It'll be fun. All right.

LIAM: I brought this for good luck today.

(laughter)

LIAM: It's going to be my woobie.

TALIESIN: Hey, now. Not cool. Not cool. We do not
use the W word around here.

SAM: Does he even know what he's saying?

TALIESIN: Yeah, he knows.

LIAM: We're off the rails again.

SAM: All right, let's go.

TALIESIN: Sorry.

MARISHA: Fucking vampires.

MATT: Did you use woobie intentionally?

LIAM: Yes.

TALIESIN: Goddamn it.

LIAM: He's in Mr. Mom!

TALIESIN: They don't know where you're pointing.

LAURA: Point down!

LIAM: He's in Mr. Mom. This guy right here.

MATT: Anyway! Let's get kicking into this
evening's episode of Critical Role. So. To get all

of you up to speed. The party has traveled to
Whitestone, partially to free their name of some

negative political ramifications back in their
home city of Emon, and to aid Percy in possibly

freeing his hometown of Whitestone from the
oppression of Lord and Lady Briarwood, a couple

who have risen to power over the past five years
after slaughtering his family and taking it over

and keeping it all this time.

After arriving, they found a very heavy undead
presence in the town, with giant zombies roaming

the streets as sentinels. Most of the townsfolk
kept under perpetual watch in this slowly

will-crushing atmosphere. But as Vox Machina
arrived, they began to instill the thoughts of

rebellion. Stoking those flames once again with
the return of the surviving de Rolo, they began to

sway the people's minds to make a final stand.

During that time, they also discovered that
Percy's sister Cassandra is also a surviving de

Rolo and exists somewhere in Castle Whitestone,
seemingly under lock and key. The party began to

systematically take out members of the new nobles
who worked underneath the Briarwoods, setting many

buildings on fire, leaving emblems of the de Rolo
crest across the town and written in the sky, and

after an extensive battle, began to make their way
toward Castle Whitestone itself. Burrowing into a

partially collapsed but long-remembered secret
passage underneath the castle, the party rested

for the evening with the help of their recently
arrived cleric Pike, who had managed to project

herself through the will of Sarenrae as a
spiritual body given temporary physical form.

While they were searching this tunnel, it led to
the dungeons, the prison cells beneath the Castle

Whitestone where Percy once woke up five years
before, before Cassandra helped him escape. While

they were walking through those cells, they
discovered an old woman currently locked down

below there who is asking for the party's aid in
freeing her from her imprisonment. And last time

we left off, you were helping with--

LAURA: Fake helping.

MATT: Fake helping with the lock, much to her
chagrin.

LAURA: Yeah, and I had just snapped it off into
the locks so that it's jammed it.

MATT: Yeah, you're a terrible person. All right,
so as you snap off the lock and pull away from it,

having the strange physical interaction in the
darkness around here, Trinket behind you just

breathing over your shoulder, keeping close to you
just in case anything's wrong. She pulls her hands

away. "Fine. (huff) Do as you wish, leave me to
rot."

LAURA: Oh, we'll be back. Don't worry.

MATT: She backs up and sits in the far corner of
the prison cell and (huffs).

LAURA: I look around. Has everyone left me?

TRAVIS: The only people that are in the light--

LAURA: All right then I follow to where everybody
else is going.

MATT: All right.

TRAVIS: She only saw me and--

LAURA: Me and Scanlan.

MATT: And Scanlan, yeah. You all stepped out into
the light. The rest of you stayed in the shadows.

LAURA: Okay.

MATT: All right, so there are the rest of the
cells which Vax has gone through and taken some

time to inspect, where you found what appear to be
the remnants of individuals who were imprisoned

here and then left to die, long rotted, their
corpses picked apart by various resident rodents

and other creatures. After doing your passes, the
conversation has happened, you see no other signs

of life down here. This being the sole prisoner
currently within the cells below.

LAURA: I go and I find Scanlan.

SAM: Oi.

LAURA: So, question.

SAM: Yes?

LAURA: When you cast Seeming on us, our visual--
if you made me look like a cow, would I seem like

a cow when I bumped into you, or would I seem like
a human?

SAM: Are you asking me to make you into a cow
right now?

LAURA: No, I'm saying that if something was
different--

SAM: Because I think this is not the right time.

LAURA: I think that old woman was doing something
weird.

SAM: Why do you think that?

LAURA: Because she looked like she had full
handses, but--

SAM: Four hands?

LAURA: Full.

SAM: Oh, full hands. Okay.

LAURA: Normal sort of hands, but I didn't feel
them.

SAM: You didn't feel them? You touched her hand
and it just passed right through?

LAURA: Her hand touched me, but it didn't--

SAM: That's an illusion of some sort, yeah.

LAURA: So she was doing some sort of--

SAM: I don't know what, but yes. If I were to cast
Seeming on us, or some other sort of magic, it

would make us look one way but not feel that way.

LAURA: I guess it's good that we left her, then.

SAM: She's a caster of some sort?

LAURA: I don't know.

TRAVIS: Can you dispel Seeming?

SAM: Should we go find out?

LAURA: I don't know.

TRAVIS: How would we do that?

LAURA: Can you dispel Seeming?

SAM: I don't know. (laughing) Let's go find out.

MARISHA: Do you have a Dispel Magic on you right
now?

SAM: I have-- No.

MARISHA: Oh my god, I do!

SAM: Well.

MARISHA: I learned it.

SAM: Oh, Keyleth?

TALIESIN: Are we calling everyone over for this
conversation?

SAM: I think we should.

TRAVIS: Away from her.

LAURA: Yeah, I'm far away from her now.

SAM: That prisoner over there is casting magic of
some sort.

LAURA: I think she had Seeming cast on her. I
don't know if she did it herself or if-- well, I

don't think she was what she appeared to be.

TALIESIN: Do we want to waste power on somebody
who's...

SAM: What if she's--

TRAVIS: An early warning system?

SAM: Yeah, what if she's a guard?

MARISHA: What if she's Lady Briarwood? Like what
we were saying? That's what I'm most afraid of.

SAM: Well, then we should find out now and kill
the shit out of her.

TRAVIS: I vote for that.

MARISHA: Well, before we do that, let's see who
she is. I did come prepared, though,

to dispel magic.

LAURA: So you can do Dispel Magic?

MARISHA: I learned it. I did.

LAURA: Stay in the shadows, Keyleth, and cast it
on her.

TRAVIS: Percy, you're wearing what?

TALIESIN: I'm wearing a hat of disguise so that
I'm not immediately identifiable.

TRAVIS: What are you in disguise as?

LAURA: A dude in a hat.

TALIESIN: Link from the Legend of Zelda. I don't
know.

SAM: Well, you've got to figure it out right now.

TALIESIN: I'm going to figure it out right now.
Just as a reasonable Whitestone peasant.

MATT: Okay.

LIAM: Terrible teeth.

TALIESIN: Trying to blend in.

MATT: By comparison to this troop, you're some
poor sap who got pulled along, but yeah. You are

that one quest-giver in Warcraft that walks way
too slow and the party is like, "Come on, move!"

That's who you look like right now.

TRAVIS: Before we dispel magic on her, should we
have someone put her in their sights in case she

gets a little funky monkey?

MARISHA: She will be able to feel it.

LAURA: Well, yeah. She'll look like she's not
herself.

TALIESIN: We could also just ask her to drop it.

TRAVIS: We asked her who she was. She lied. A
lot.

TALIESIN: Well, we could ask her to drop the
Seeming.

MARISHA: She lied pretty well, too.

TALIESIN: She did.

SAM: I could go talk to her, and meanwhile she
could be fiddling with her magic behind me.

LAURA: Do it.

MARISHA: You go talk to her. I'll be prepared.

LAURA: I'll stay in the shadows with my arrow
notched.

TRAVIS: I'll stay with Scanlan in case things go
wrong.

MARISHA: I stay next to Vex.

TALIESIN: I stay in the shadows.

LIAM: How close together are the bars to this
cell?

MATT: The bars are about four inches apart.

LIAM: Four inches.

LAURA: So my arrow will do much better than your
dagger.

LIAM: Well, no. I'm not saying for you not to, but
would I be able to comfortably throw through?

MATT: Yeah!

LIAM: Yeah? All right. I'm not telling you not
to.

LAURA: No, it's fine.

MATT: She'd have a little bit of cover.

LAURA: Shoot your arrow, too. Shoot your dagger.
Whatever.

MARISHA: Shoot your dagger?

SAM: He doesn't shoot daggers

LIAM: Passive-aggressive much?

SAM: All right, so I stroll over back to the
cell.

TRAVIS: With Scanlan, also.

SAM: Oh, flanked by Grog. Yes.

MATT: Okay.

TRAVIS: Not looking friendly, neither.

MATT: Okay, and there is the one torch that's a
little off to the side that gives a little bit of

light into this one portion of the dungeon below
here. She's sat out, into the shadows of the far

corner, arms crossed. You can see a little bit of
the light framing her form. You make out okay in

the darkness this close as a gnome, but you can
see that she's just hunched in the corner, huffing

in frustration.

SAM: Oi. Old lady. Listen. We said we were going
to come back for you and release you when all was

said and done, but we cannot make that promise if
you don't tell us the complete truth. Now, we know

that you're using magic of some sort. Tell us who
you really are.

MATT: "I'm sorry, what?"

SAM: We are smart little people. And big people.

TRAVIS: Thank you.

SAM: And we can sense that you are casting magic
of some sort on yourself to disguise yourself.

Now, I have some familiarity with this, so I make
no judgment as to why, but please reveal your

true self to us or else we cannot trust you and we
will leave you here to rot and possibly die.

TRAVIS: (whispered) Now.

MARISHA: Now! I do it now!

(laughter)

SAM: "Now, I do it now?"

TRAVIS: Hopefully quieter than that.

MATT: As Keyleth, partially in the shadows-- the
form of Scanlan small enough to not really obscure

her presence-- but she nevertheless gestures in
the air, recites beneath her words the forbidden

druidic languages that coalesce the powers of
nature around. At which point, there's a dull

flash of energy within the cell. Some of the
nearby straw on the ground gets blown away from

her form from the general push of air the spell
disperses and the impact.

MARISHA: Sorry, got a little squirrely on that
one.

MATT: The grey hair, the tattered clothes all
vanish, revealing beneath it a woman in her early

mid-forties or so. Jet black hair pulled into a
tight ponytail, but strings of it in front of her

face. Still in disarray but nowhere near as
wrecked as the previous visage you were presented

with. She's wearing nice travel clothes with what
looks like some sort of a long duster-like coat

that is a little ragged. You can see there's a
little stain from being down here for a while. As

soon as this moment hits, she pushes back even
further, pressing herself against the wall, arms

to the side.

TRAVIS: There you are.

SAM: I must say, you look way better like this.

MATT: "Happy?"

SAM: Extremely.

TRAVIS: Yes, I'd say so.

SAM: Yes, so who are you for real?

MATT: "My name is Anna, and I would like to be set
free, if you don't mind. I can be of assistance to

"you. I happen to know a lot of information about
the people that currently

"reside within this castle."

SAM: How would you know anything about them?

MATT: "Release me and I'll tell you."

TRAVIS: You want to be set free?

LAURA: Tell us and we'll release you.

MATT: "You've been so forthright in your interest
in helping such an old and frail woman. How can I

"have any sort of guarantee of my safety should I
give you the information you seek? You could very

"well slay me in this cell."

TRAVIS: That might happen if you're not careful.

MARISHA: What's Percy doing right now? Where's
Percy?

LAURA: Do you recognize her, Percy?

TALIESIN: Yes.

MATT: You very much recognize her. You do notice,
by the way, her right hand? The sleeve ends. There

is no hand there. It is just a missing hand, and
the left hand is visible.

TRAVIS: As far as we can see, unarmed? Right?

MATT: Yeah.

TALIESIN: Anna?

MATT: "Yes?"

TALIESIN: Let's be frank with each other. You have
two options: either you are going to die in this

cell-- and I promise you, you will die in this cell--
or you are going to convince us why you shouldn't.

So I would start talking right now or I swear we
will not leave this dungeon before you're dead.

MATT: Roll an intimidation check.

MARISHA: It's pretty good.

TALIESIN: 16.

MATT: 16, okay.

LIAM: And just as he finishes talking, I throw a
dagger a foot away from her head in the wall.

MATT: Okay.

LAURA: You gave her a fucking dagger? And then it
flashes back to you, right?

(laughter)

MATT: So the dagger which is thrown (whoosh) hits
the stone wall next to her and jams itself between

two of the stone bricks and gets wedged there for
a second. She looks over for a second, reaches up

for it and grabs the hilt as it vanishes in a puff
of smoke.

LAURA: You are so fucking lucky it did that.

(laughter)

MATT: She leans forward and stands up and steps
into the light, and you have a better look of her

now, and her face is a little weathered from
travel. You can see she definitely doesn't appear

to be nobleborn, at least. She's by no means a
homely looking individual, but you can see she's

seen the world, or elements of it, to have those
dark lines at the sides of her face, whether it be

from smiles or frowning. She steps into the light
and looks to you, this peasant individual making

these threats, and seems partially shaken but
keeping her composure in the face of such threats.

She says, "Well, for one thing, I've been here
with them for the past five years. I helped them

"reestablish their current social control of this
city when they left it a pile of flames and

"rubble. And their little experiment beneath the
castle?

"I was one of their chief scientific designers."

TALIESIN: Tell us about the experiments beneath
the castle.

MATT: (chuckles) "You'll have to ask Sylas or
Delilah for that. I don't have all the details or

"the reasons behind it, other than the process I
was brought in to construct."

MARISHA: Can I see if she's lying?

MATT: You can. Make an insight check.

MARISHA: Not great.

TALIESIN: That's a number.

MARISHA: It is a number. 16.

MATT: 16? Okay. You get the sense that she's
telling the truth. You're not quite sure how far

off the truth, but there doesn't seem to be any
sort of bald-faced deception in her voice, at this

point. She speaks with a confidence and a
brusqueness of a person who is frustrated by the

circumstance and has no other choice. "I wasn't
interested in their zealotry or the whispered

"dealings, just the challenge behind the
construction. I enjoy challenge. Challenge that

"pays, well, (chuckles) I enjoy that even more."

TALIESIN: Question two: What are you doing down
here, really?

MATT: "I'm down here because my work is done and I
wish not to linger with an impending battle. I

"don't choose sides; I merely let them fight while
I live another day far, far away. I wouldn't have

"gotten this far dealing with the people I've dealt
with in the past if I had chosen to stick around

"under such circumstances, so I tried to leave. It
appears Anders saw me packing and decided to gain

'a little favor by turning me in, so they threw me
down here, told me to wait out the rest of the

"experiment, at least until the ziggurat was
complete. So here I am, living amongst rats in a

"cell for over a week. That's my reward."

LAURA: How did you lose the hand?

MATT: "Experiments can be dangerous, sometimes. I
dabble with chemicals and alchemical reagents that

"can be miscalculated, and I paid a price that will
be an ever-present reminder until I can find a way

"to fix it. And there are ways."

TRAVIS: Are you looking for ways to get back at
the Briarwoods?

MATT: "Based on the way they've treated me here
and their possible intent to not even keep up

"their end of the bargain now that I'm free to walk
away? Perhaps."

TALIESIN: Can you lead us to Cassandra de Rolo?

MATT: She turns her head with a curious look. "I
could, yes. Why do you ask?" She looks at you very

intently.

TALIESIN: That may be what your life is worth.

MATT: "So. What else do you wish to know? What
else do you need, even, to get me out from behind

"these bars? Because I'm growing very uncomfortable
and cold here in this cellar."

TALIESIN: I pull forward, I look her very deeply
in the eye, and I say, you should know who your

friends are here. Do you know that we're friends?
And I'm going to become friends.

I'm casting Friends.

MATT: Okay.

TRAVIS and LAURA: What?

TRAVIS: Is good Percy casting Friends or shadow
monster casting Friends?

SAM: We'll never know until he and Ripley kill us
all.

TALIESIN: I'm getting creepy. Just for flavor.
There is definitely some creepy happening.

MATT: Okay. You stare at her at this point, intent
pushing yourself toward the bars, and she's still

looking you over like she's searching for some
sort of an inclination as to why you're so

interested in these particular questions.

TALIESIN: You've been truthful with us so far,
correct? You haven't been fudging around or

playing games with us, really, have you?

MATT: "I've no reason to lie. Worst comes to
worst, you kill me where I stand or leave me here

"to rot. What do I have to gain by lying at this
point? Besides, you've already proven you can see

"through quite a few ruses. Apparently."

TALIESIN: So you'd be happy to help us find
Cassandra de Rolo, wouldn't you?

MATT: "If it gets me out of here and gets me free
to do my own business, then yes. I'll have to get

"a few things from my room, but I would be more
than happy to be free of this desolate landscape.

"This whole town is a ruin of misery, and it has no
color. It has no culture. I've grown bored of it."

LAURA: You say you're a scientist.

MATT: "Yes."

LAURA: Do you use magic?

MATT: "I've no interest in paltry magics. I'm more
of one who embraces the sciences as a means of

"understanding mystery. My whole purpose here was
one giant chemical experiment."

LAURA: Then who cast Seeming on you?

MATT: "Oh, that isn't to say I have don't have my
tricks."

TALIESIN: Anna. You will take us to Cassandra de
Rolo. You will tell us what you know about what's

in the basement. You will tell us where to find
Lord and Lady Briarwood, and you will tell us

where to find professor Anders. And for this, we
may let you go.

MATT: "Hmm, may. That word, 'may.'"

TALIESIN: I'll let you leave the castle.

MATT: "And if I agree to these terms, you'll
release me at this moment? Keep me safe until it

"is time for me to take my leave?"

SAM: We may chain you to a bear, but yes.

LAURA: This is Clarota all fucking over again.

TALIESIN: You are, at the moment, the luckiest
person in Whitestone. Do you know why? Because

you're at the bottom of my list.

(laughter)

TALIESIN: And I take off the hat.

LAURA and MARISHA: Oh shit!

MATT: As the peasant image fades, for her, there's
an intensity to her eyes, a widening of

realization as she steps back instinctually with a
gasp. And there is definite fear in her voice and

her eyes, but there's an uncontrollable smile on
her face which catches you off guard.

"Percival." (laughs)

MARISHA: She's a nervous laugher.

MATT: "Well, then. This certainly explains a lot.
I have many questions. I found your recent work

"very fascinating."

TALIESIN: I will be happy to give you an up close
and very personal demonstration. Unless, of

course, you would rather have conversations about
other topics.

MATT: "We'll start with the other topics." She
adjusts her coat, regains her composure, and steps

up to the bars expectantly.

SAM: Vax?

LIAM: All right. I come out of the shadows.

LAURA: Oh god, are we really letting her out?

SAM: Get a chain ready, or a noose of some sort.

TRAVIS: No, we have manacles.

LAURA: She's got one hand. How's that going to be
useful?

MARISHA: One hand and then one on the bear,
right?

TALIESIN: It means there's only one to shoot off
to make sure she won't be a problem.

LIAM: I pull out a pick and I walk up to the gate
and I say, he's a very good shot. She's a very

good shot.

LAURA: He poops on things.

LIAM: This guy, I've watched turn things into the
Jelly of the Month, so I would tread very

carefully.

MARISHA: And then I peek out of the shadows and
go, hi. (giggles)

LIAM: She's a nervous laugher.

(laughter)

MATT: Go ahead and make a check lock pick. This
will be more difficult than normal because--

LAURA: I snapped off a thing in there. Sorry about
that.

LIAM: All right, I'm going to use Luck.

LAURA: You're going to use Luck now?!

SAM: Shall I inspire you?

TALIESIN: Don't use Luck yet

LIAM: It's not that bad. That's a 20.

MATT: That's a 20 baseline?

LIAM: Yeah, because of my--

MATT: Expertise? All right. 20 is exactly what you
needed.

LIAM: Skadoosh.

MATT: That was the next one. So you take a moment
you walk up all slick and (click).

LIAM: Wait. One sec. This never happens.

(laughter)

MATT: You have to get down and you spend the next
30 seconds actually managing to get the pin that

she has stuck in there out without actually
breaking the spring inside.

LAURA: Sorry about that.

SAM: Fucking doors!

LIAM: Shut up!

LAURA: It never ends!

MATT: About a minute and a half of awkward quiet
as the sound of scraping metal and jimmying

thieves' tools, eventually (click).

LIAM: We're still very tough.

(laughter)

MATT: And with that, (ting) the lock comes loose
and the bars (creak) open a little bit.

LAURA: Trinket, watch her.

MATT: (grunts) The bear, which at this point has
been barely visible, steps

out of the shadows, as well--

SAM: Bear-ly?

(groaning)

MATT: It would be you.

LIAM: Kill him!

MATT: Steps out and presents a very puffed-up
Trinket made to look intimidating. (growl) Towards

Dr. Anna Ripley.

TALIESIN: Here's the deal, Anna. You do what we
ask, you do not betray us, you do not make our

life difficult in any way, and you have my word
that you will leave Whitestone unmolested by us.

If I sense the slightest hint, if I have a moment
where I think that you might make a run for it, if

I have a moment where I think you may cough
inappropriately, I would ask you to think about

everything you did to me, and I would like you to
know that I have learned so much more than what

you taught me that day, and I cannot wait to show
you. And I will. But not until I find you again.

MATT: "Understood, Percival. Well, then. Shall
we?" She steps out of the cell, pushes the bar

aside, saunters up past you, steps over, still
facing you underneath the torch light.

SAM: Should we shackle her?

TALIESIN: No.

SAM: Oh? All right.

TALIESIN: It'll arouse suspicion.

MATT: "I'd like to gather my things."

SAM: Things? They let you have things in a prison
cell?

MATT: "Well, I don't have them here in the cell.
They're in my room."

SAM: We have to go to your room?

MATT: "I would like to."

LAURA: Tell us what you need and we'll get it for
you, dear.

MATT: "Very well. Come." And she begins to step up
the stairway that leads out of the dungeon.

LAURA: Can you walk quietly? Please?

MATT: You can hear the slight chuckle in the
darkness. She goes, "I haven't lived this long

"without learning to step a little gingerly."

SAM: Oh boy.

LIAM: Let's go parading through the castle.

TALIESIN: I'll follow her.

MATT: Okay.

SAM: Let's all follow her, right?

TRAVIS: We should check any of the other cells?

LAURA: We did. We already checked them all

MATT: As you're walking up the stairs, she's
talking to you a bit out loud and she's just

saying, "This whole entire endeavor-- while it did
pay well at the get-go and did pique some of my

"curiosity, I'm very happy to see it out of my life
after this." You guys get to the top of the stairs

and there is a closed wooden door there. She comes
to the door and listens to it for a second.

(creak) Opens it up and looks out. "Huh. Empty."
Holds the door open and says,

"Who would like to enter?"

SAM: You would like to enter.

MATT: "All right, just giving the offer." And
she steps into the room. This is the end of a long

hallway that leads to a series of doors on the
right and left side, and it opens into a large

central entrance chamber to what would be the
castle. So she steps in. She's not going too far

ahead. She's being very conscious that based on
the fact that she has nothing on her and you are

very well armed, it would not behoove her to
attempt to make a run for it.

LAURA: Do we see anything in the room?

TALIESIN: Perception is passive as hell right now.
I am keeping very sharp eye on--

MATT: No, I understand. Looking around. She's
taking her steps slowly, and she's looking around

corners as you guys progress. The doors that are
there-- everyone's being very quiet, just the very

gentle sounds of careful footsteps against the
smooth stone floor. (footsteps) She turns around,

looking at the rest of you a little confused, and
goes, "Huh. Usually there are a lot more

"individuals frequenting this castle."

SAM: Maybe they've been drawn out by the thing
that we incited outside that's been going on for

like 45 minutes now?

MARISHA: Feels like a trap.

LAURA: No, but there is fighting. Can we hear
fighting?

MATT: You're inside the castle right now. You
could go and if you want to try and enter one of

the rooms to the right or left, you can see if
there's a window.

SAM: Are there any open doors?

MATT: All the doors are currently closed.

LIAM: I just want to see if I sense anything
around.

MATT: Okay.

LIAM: 23.

MATT: Perception?

LIAM: Perception, yeah.

MATT: Okay. You take a moment and listen around.
Silent. Still. It's unnerving.

SAM: Does she have a window in her room?

MATT: You asking?

SAM: We're at her doorway, aren't we?

MATT: No, you've just stepped up to the base floor
of the castle. You're on the base floor, on the

side of it. You're not even quite sure which way
is north.

TRAVIS: Nobody we're looking for is going to be
above us, right? They're going to be below the

castle.

SAM: For sure.

TRAVIS: So we don't want her to get her shit in
her room. We need to be asking how to get below

the castle.

TALIESIN: We'll get there.

SAM: What are you getting?

MARISHA: She wants her weapons.

TALIESIN: And I want to see what she's built,
anyway.

SAM: Why would we let her have a weapon?

TRAVIS: We're not going to.

LAURA: Can't we look at what she's built after we
fight them?

SAM: It could be useful.

TALIESIN: As we're walking, I just want to very
gently take my gun--

SAM: And shoot her with it.

(laughter)

TALIESIN: And just put it gently at her back,
going, nothing personal.

I'm just feeling a bit nervous.

MATT: "Understood." She straightens up a little
more and continues walking ever so carefully. Not

quite leaning her head or making too many large
movements, but definitely still keeping a

seemingly nervous eye on how quiet the atmosphere
is.

LAURA: I creep over to one of the doors in the
room and see if I can hear

anything on the other side.

MATT: You don't hear anything inside the room.
Roll a perception check.

LAURA: (groans) 14.

MATT: You hear some slight, muffled, dull thud
noise, but you can't really tell how close it is.

It's very, very faint.

LAURA: Can I see if the door handle is--

MATT: (click) It's open.

LAURA: I step to the side and push it open.

MATT: Push it open (creak) The door opens.
Everyone before you whips around, hearing the

noise in the silence. Looking inside, it appears
to be a long-untouched music room, a space for

hosting individuals where you would have small
performances, and there is a very cold fireplace

in the far corner. There is a small, circular
window that is placed in the center of the room

that has a very thick glass pane with cross bar on
it that seems to look out. And this is your first

view-- for you, especially, since you woke up in
the tunnel-- your first view of the outside.

LAURA: And?

MATT: Do you go up to the window and look?

LAURA: Sure.

LIAM: I'm following my sister in, doing the buddy
cop thing.

MATT: Okay. You two coast up to the glass and look
out, and another cloud-covered, slightly drizzly

morning has taken the caldera between the
mountains that houses Whitestone in this forest.

You can see the entire city of Whitestone down
below this elevated part of topography. What you

do see, one, are large plumes of smoke, about six
or seven of them, all gathered towards what you

can tell now is the north side of the city, which
is the closest to you. You guys are on the

southwest side of the castle, based on the spatial
awareness you've now made.

MARISHA: Where the more upper-class folk would
live, I'm assuming?

MATT: Go ahead and roll perception check, while
you're glancing out.

MARISHA: Sure.

LIAM: So close.

LAURA: That could've been so bad. 20.

MATT: Okay.

LAURA: It was like whee-- oh.

MATT: (laughing) Love those little (gasps)
moments. Taking a moment, you pull your brother in

to point out where you're looking. It looks like
the gates to the castle are wide open. There are

tracks through the mud that lead down the pathway
to the bottom, and right where the path from the

castle intersects with the outer wall of
Whitestone, there is a fray going on right now. It

looks like the remnants of whatever sort of undead
army that wasn't destroyed by you guys, combined

with what may have been a number of the
individuals who normally guard the castle, have

all been momentarily distracted by the rebellion
you guys have started, and for the time being, at

least, have left elements of this castle
unguarded.

LAURA: Nice. I would loot, but it's Percival's
home. Do we see anything that looks like it could

be a doorway leading down, or anything?

SAM: We've gone up, right?

LAURA: We're on the main level.

TALIESIN: We're going to try to get my sister
first.

LAURA: Do you know, Percival, how to go under?

TALIESIN: Yes. Unless there's something new, then
yes. I was born here.

LIAM: Before my sister leaves, I grab her by the
arm and say, "Listen to me--"

(creaking)

LIAM: What is that? Pizza. Forget I said that.
Listen to me, I do not have a good feeling about

this. And I start to undo the cloak that's on me,
And I want you to wear this. And I tie an elven

cloak. Shut up, please. I don't need it. You will
wear this. You will stay hidden when it is needed.

You almost lost me. I almost lost you. You will
wear this as needed.

LAURA: I will wear it. Thank you.

LIAM: I walk out ahead of her.

MATT: Pull the hood up. So you get advantage on
stealth checks. As you guys step into the hallway

and move forward, Pike's physical form is drifting
along you guys as she takes each step. You can see

she's stopped a little bit and she's lost in
thought for a moment. And she looks at the rest of

you and says, "There is a great evil here. It's--"
And you can see part of her form flicker and shake

and almost blink for a moment, and then she
reaches forward and says, "Something's willing me

"away. I ca--" And with that, her form just
vanishes.

LAURA: Oh no!

TALIESIN: Damn.

MATT: As you feel this warmth on your hand, Vax,
and the symbol of Sarenrae that you have embedded

in your glove. You look down, and it has a slight
glow to it, similar to the color that her divine

energy form had taken. And you see it just slowly
fade, but not entirely. The symbol seems to just

have this general very faint radiation. A
reminder, or at least what small semblance of a

connection to her in this dark, dark place.

LIAM: (whispering) Goodbye, Pike.

TRAVIS: Before we move on from that foyer, can we
see the front door from where we're at?

MATT: If you go another 20, 30 feet ahead to the
end of this hallway, it should open up into the

main entrance chamber and you would be able to see
the doors.

TRAVIS: So we're not there yet, okay.

TALIESIN: I'm going to take a moment and I have an
epiphany, and I'm going to shift my form into a

castle guard.

MATT: Okay.

SAM: Vex, what you saw through the window, should
we move through the castle quickly because it's

unguarded?

LAURA: I guess. There's fighting going on now. I
don't want to eat right now.

TALIESIN: We'll get it on the break.

LAURA: I saw fighting, lots of fighting. I feel
like if we're going to move, we need to do it

quickly.

TRAVIS: Yeah, we're on a clock.

SAM: Okay, let's go.

TALIESIN: Anna. I lower the gun and let her move
forward.

TRAVIS: You don't need to lower it.

MATT: She continues forward, heads towards the
rest of the hallway into the main entrance chamber

of the castle, very carefully looking about. She
gestures to the rest of you to follow. And as you

follow along beside her, you can see the two large
front doors that situate the entrance, the main

entrance to Whitestone--

SAM: Are they open?

MATT: No, they are closed.

TRAVIS: I have 20 caltrops. Can I throw ten of
them in front of the door?

MATT: Yeah, if you'd like to.

(laughter)

MATT: They scatter and clink against the ground,
scraping against the stone and eventually coming

to a stop loosely around the two doors, which are
about eight feet wide each, so 16 feet of it, so

you're scattering about one every foot and a
half.

LIAM: I watched him do that, and I shrug and I
reach into my pack, and I throw 30 more of them.

MATT: Okay. The area has a little more coverage on
there, but nevertheless there is a nice cluster of

nasty spiked caltrops now.

LAURA: That was a good idea. Very smart there.

TRAVIS: Yeah. Thank you.

SAM: Grog, using your noggin.

TRAVIS: One a day.

(laughter)

TALIESIN: Was that a thought for the day, then?
Don't sprain yourself. We need you later.

TRAVIS: I'm back.

(laughter)

MATT: Ripley starts making her way up the stairs,
and the staircase ascends for a good 15 feet up

before it splits into two curved stairways that
come around to a second landing

to the second floor.

MARISHA: So hang on one second, real quick, he's
dressed as a guard?

TALIESIN: Yes.

MARISHA: I'm going to go ahead and cast Enhance
Ability on you. For charisma.

TALIESIN: I don't need it.

MATT: Well, you do now.

TALIESIN: Has it worn off?

MATT: It lasts for a minute, so yeah, it's worn
off.

MARISHA: Oh, it only lasts for a minute?

MATT: Friends only lasts for a minute.

TALIESIN: I had enhance charisma on for a while,
but now it's gone, so if you do it,

what I had is gone--

TRAVIS: Pour some sugar on, Keyleth.

MARISHA: I'll do it. I'm going to enhance. In case
we get busted. So you'll have advantage on

persuasion rolls.

MATT: Okay, so you have advantage on all
charisma-based ability checks.

TALIESIN: All right, putting that down.

MARISHA: Also, no one forget that we have Heroes'
Feast.

LAURA: Wait, if I put the holy oil on things, it
lasts for a few hours, right? It lasts for half a

day or something?

MATT: I'd say it lasts for about an hour after
application.

TALIESIN: Wait until we're in the thick of it.

MATT: The oil will eventually just drift off, as
it is an oil.

LAURA: It dries and stuff.

MATT: Yeah, it dries and gets rubbed off. It lasts
about an hour after application.

TALIESIN: Let's head to her room.

MATT: Okay. You head up the stairs. She's being
very quiet about it. She comes up to the landing,

heads to the first major hallway that opens up
into a long set that goes all the way to the

eastern side of the castle. You recognize this
area. This is where a number of smaller guest

rooms were arranged. There's also a reading room.
Around the corner and down the way is where your

father's study is. And around the back is where
Professor Anders's study was. She continues

forward and eventually stops at a door halfway
down the hall. Motions to all of you.

"Do you mind?"

LAURA: What do you want? What's in there?

MATT: "My belongings."

TALIESIN: I want to see what you've been working
on.

MATT: "All right." She opens the door. (creak)

MARISHA: I'll wait outside and stand watch.

LAURA: I walk in with her.

TRAVIS: I stay right next to her.

MATT: So in her room, it's very plainly decorated.
You know these rooms are generally very well

decorated, just in case. Decorations have been
taken off. This room looks very minimalistic and

for the most part more for function than anything
else. You see there is plain sheets on the bed,

most of the room's open space is taken by a long
table that's been put here that has a series of

alchemical glassware, and you can see what looks
to be small containers that contain different

materials and powders and seems like she does her
own work here. There are two open drums on the

side, and there is this very caustic smell to the
air. There is an acerbic tinge to the nose as soon

as the room enters. There's just this
ever-present, very heavy fresh rust smell to the

room. She walks to the far end. Underneath the
desk that contains this alchemical setup, she

pulls a small chest out--

TALIESIN: I watch very carefully.

MATT: She brings the chest to the top. She opens
it up, and on the inside you can see just some

folded clothing. She moves the clothing off to the
side and she pulls out what looks like relatively

simple leather armor. "May I?"

TRAVIS: Very, very slowly.

LAURA: Don't be creepy, Grog.

(laughter)

TRAVIS: Creepy? I'm going to put her through the
wall if she moves in the wrong way.

TALIESIN: You know, I almost killed you in
Stillben.

MATT: "Really?"

TALIESIN: Do you remember?

MATT: "Huh. I didn't know that was you."

TALIESIN: I was kind of curious if you had figured
it out or not.

MATT: "No."

LAURA: Tell you what, I'll hold onto that armor
for the time being.

MATT: She's partway into it.

LAURA: Yeah, you can take it off. We'll put it in
the Bag of Holding. You can put it

on after we're done.

MATT: (heavy sigh) She folds the tunic portion
over the chest piece and hands it to you, pulls

out some of the arm braces and leg guards and
hands those over as well.

TALIESIN: Show me your work.

MATT: She goes underneath the chest and she pulls
out two small glass vials and sets them on the

side. She then reaches underneath and pulls up
what looks to be a false bottom of the chest.

Places it. At which point she reaches in and pulls
out a metallic construction that you all see looks

not unlike in shape and purpose as the Pepperbox
that you've seen Percy use all this time, though

it has only a single barrel and has a small
rotating four-part chamber to it. It's a little

more refined than his construction, and you can
see now part of the alchemical setup she has in

here actually is, and you recognize this as you
get close, part of it is designed in the creation

of ammunition and refining the powder that is used
by this process. You see a series of notes that

are off to the side that have sketches outlined of
your Pepperbox, though not really accurate. Almost

like they were recalled from various individuals
that had seen it in person and given accounts of

it. She's been keeping a very close log of
eyewitness accounts of your weaponry, apparently,

for some time.

SAM: She's a fangirl.

MARISHA: Yeah, she is.

TALIESIN: I'm disappointed. I was expecting
something more imaginative.

MATT: (laughs) "You've seen my room, have you not?
I prefer function."

TALIESIN: (scoffs) Hack.

MATT: She reaches down and--

TRAVIS: Keep your hands away and step back.

TALIESIN: We'll give those to you when it's time
to leave.

MATT: "How am I to defend myself should things go,
and pardon my term, ass-up?"

LAURA: Are you planning on fighting with us?
Helping us?

MATT: "You say you won't release me until you've
finished what you're doing here. I assume that what

"you're doing here is ending the current reign of
those who rule this town. I can't assume that's

"going to end with a conversation."

LIAM: I lean my head in and say, the goliath
could turn your head into paste now,

if you like.

LAURA: Tell you what, we'll take the weapons and
give it to you if we need your help.

TALIESIN: Let her have the armor. As a sign of
good faith.

TRAVIS: What if it's enchanted armor?

TALIESIN: And give me your ammunition. And when
it's time, I will hand some to you.

SAM: So you're leaving her the weapons but no
ammo?

LAURA: No, I'm taking the weapon.

TALIESIN: The weapon's useless.

LAURA: I don't care.

MATT: She gives you the weapon begrudgingly. Hands
you a pouch about this big that's pretty heavy,

containing a series of iron balls inside. You can
see there's the various instruments she uses for

forging them and crafting them there across the
table. She puts her hand out towards you for the

armor. She puts it on, a little quicker this time,
because she feels like she had a little victory.

She takes a little vial, puts it in her pocket.
She reaches over and grabs a little pouch inside

the side with change. Puts a little bit of money
to the side there.

TRAVIS: What are in those vials?

MATT: She reaches in, pulls them out, shows them
to you. And you recognize the color. She goes,

"What, you think you're the only one who doesn't
occasionally suffer a wound? I have to look after

"myself, as well." It's a greater healing potion.

TRAVIS: One of them is? Or they both are?

MATT: The one she pulled out and showed you.

TRAVIS: What about the other one?

(laughter)

MATT: "Really?"

TRAVIS: Really. Lest your brains leak out your
ears.

MATT: She pulls out the other one. "This is in
case things go really poorly and I need to uphold

"my sense of self-preservation."

LAURA: What does that mean?

TRAVIS: Yeah, what does that mean?

MATT: (sighs angrily)

TALIESIN: Convince us to let you keep it.

MATT: "It allows me to make a fleeting escape on
the air as opposed to by foot."

LAURA: Oh. Well, then give it to me.

TRAVIS: Axe.

(laughter)

MATT: And with that, the glass almost shatters
with the amount of frustrating force she slams

it into your hand.

LAURA: Careful. That's made of glass, darling.

TRAVIS: I was only stretching. No need to get
testy.

MATT: So you have a Potion of Flying in your
inventory right now.

TALIESIN: And god forbid you'll see how gracious
we're feeling when we find Cassandra De Rolo

unhurt.

SAM: Yeah, Grog! Grog with the steal.

LAURA: Ooh, I get a piece of paper!

TRAVIS: Shit, Potion of Flying.

LAURA: This is awesome.

SAM: All right, do you have your shit? Can we get
out of here?

MATT: "Yes. Everything else here is of no interest
to me." She kicks one of the drums on the way out.

Slips back into the hallway.

SAM: Anything you could use, Percival?

TALIESIN: Was there any more black powder? I've
taken all of her ammunition and black powder, I

suppose. Anything else that looks useful to me?

MATT: Make an investigation check.

TALIESIN: That's intelligence.

MATT: Yeah.

TALIESIN: Oh. Well, hell. Eight.

MATT: Eight? You give a quick once-over of the
room. The place is pretty barren. Other than the

large drums of what seems like three inches of
some weird caustic substance at the bottom.

TALIESIN: I hate what you've done with the place.

MATT: It's a recurring substance. A lot of the
vials are based around it. There's a recurring

theme of this caustic liquid throughout all of her
instruments.

TALIESIN: We'll have a conversation about what she
was trying to do off-camera so I can have a better

understanding of it.

MATT: In what way?

TALIESIN: I figure I may poke you later to get a
better understanding, just so we don't have to

bore other people with her technical
accoutrements, but I would like, at some point, an

out-of-character understanding of what I'm looking
at. Of what I could discern

about what I'm looking at.

MATT: Or we could have it on camera.

TALIESIN: All right. No, I just figured it'd be, I
don't want to--

(laughter)

TALIESIN: I want to kill something tonight.

LAURA: Yeah! We were also running out of time.

TALIESIN: Exactly.

LAURA: There are people fighting right now.

TALIESIN: Committed as much to memory as possible.
Let's go.

LAURA: When we defeat the Briarwoods, you can come
back and explore this room to your heart's

content.

TALIESIN: Touche.

MARISHA: It'd still be your place.

MATT: "Now, to your sister, is it?"

SAM: Up or down?

MATT: "This would be on the other side of this
floor."

TALIESIN: Which room?

MATT: "I think you know the room." And you know
that you're not too far from your sister's room.

MARISHA: They let her keep her room.

LIAM: See you later. I go stealth. 20. No, 23.

MATT: As you guys make your way across the other
side of the hallway, back toward the western side

of the castle, eventually finding where, not far
from where your room was, as well as the rooms of your

brother and Cassandra. They're all localized in
this one area of the castle, so you were all

nearby. She goes straight to Cassandra's room.
Goes to the door and doesn't touch it yet.

TALIESIN: A quick question before I open this
door. Am I going to have a violent reaction

towards you when I open it?

MATT: "I certainly hope not."

TALIESIN: Good. (sighs)

TRAVIS: I stand right behind her.

TALIESIN: I motion to everyone, stay back, open
the door, and I push Dr. Ripley into the room,

with me behind her.

MATT: Okay. As you pull the door open, (creak) you
push her in. The room is dark. There is no light.

What little bit of light that peeks in from the
hallways in the poorly-lit interior of the castle

for this time of day. You can see there is her
canopy bed. You can see there is her cabinet in

the corner, but the room appears to be dark and
empty.

TALIESIN: Torch.

MARISHA: Are there any wall sconces around? Torch
wall sconces on the outside?

MATT: There are a few along the walls that are
currently burnt out at this point.

TRAVIS: I take a torch out of the Bag of Holding
and I take the Firebrand War Hammer, ignite it,

and hand the torch to Percy.

MATT: Okay. You glance about the room. It's lived
in. The actual bed covers themselves are pulled

off. You can see she has a vanity mirror cabinet
in the far corner. It's all put away. The chair's

open a little, like it was stepped out of. The
room is absent of anyone.

TALIESIN: I walk over to the closet. I open it.

MATT: Okay. You open the closet. She has outfits
there. Many of them don't appear to have been worn

in a while.

TALIESIN: Looking for signs of life with the paper
on the desk.

MATT: You search her desk?

TALIESIN: Yes.

MATT: Make an investigation check.

TALIESIN: Let's have a real roll. That will do.

MARISHA: That's a really good roll.

TALIESIN: That's a natural 20.

TRAVIS: It is?

MARISHA: Yeah.

SAM: Classic Percy.

MATT: All right.

TALIESIN: It was doing this on Group Hug, man.

MATT: You go through her vanity cabinet, and you
find there's small gems there. Just little

keepsakes of hers. Things from her childhood. You
do find there is a tattered portrait of her and

your brothers and you that appears to be partially
burned on one side that is kept on its own at the

bottom of the top shelf. You can see currently it
just shows half of your face, her next to you, and

your other three brothers to the side. The rest of
the family is burned off at the top point, but

this was once a portrait that was in one of the
hallways that apparently was destroyed in the

initial attack or since then. And she's kept this
scrap as some sort of memory and hid it within her

cabinet.

You also do find a stack of paper, a series of
partially-written notes and ink and quill that are

false stops. Letters that were partially written
and then crossed off, or mistakes were made or

they never got finished that are all written to
Archibald. And they talk about the general unrest

in the city. Preparation for a possible coming
rebellion. Discussing past failures but the intent

to try again. There's a theme through a lot of
these notes that this appears to be one of the

methods she was using to communicate in the
outside of the castle, and was her role in

previous attempts at freeing the people of
Whitestone.

TALIESIN: She's not here.

MATT: You see Ripley's also like, "Well, if she's
not here, she's somewhere else in

"the castle. I assume."

TALIESIN: Where would she be?

MATT: "I don't spend my time wondering or curious
about her well-being! I just know that she is

"usually here."

TALIESIN: Anna. I'm going to take a leap of faith
and believe, contrary to all evidence, that you

are a smart woman. I pull out the gun, and I put
it to her head. Now. If you were the Briarwoods,

where would you put my sister?

LAURA: An important question here, Percy. Are they
keeping her, or is she here of her own volition?

TALIESIN: I don't know. And if you don't know,
make me believe it.

MATT: "I know she's not allowed anywhere near the
ziggurat or near our distillery."

TALIESIN: Distillery? I pull the gun away.

MATT: She breathes a sigh of relief. "That's been
largely my project as part of this entire

"endeavor. All right, so when I was brought in
here, I was tasked to experiment with the design

"and create large amounts of a very, very
delicately prepared acidic compound, one that

"could dissolve the stone of your whitestone and
distill it down into pure residuum. This would allow

"the bulk creation of a very powerful magical
essence for use in construction materials that we

"could instill and use apparently for this
ziggurat, as well as other such things. Thus, that

"was my main reason for being here. We were ahead
of schedule, and I completed the bulk of our

"development weeks ago, and I no longer had much of
a purpose here."

MARISHA: Ahead of schedule? I'm sorry. Hi. By the
way, I'm Keyleth. We haven't really talked yet.

What schedule were you trying to keep? What was
the deadline?

MATT: "We were trying to create enough continuous
acid to develop enough residuum to be used in the

"reconstruction of the ziggurat. Once I had
developed enough of the compound to where we no

"longer had to create more, my purpose was
complete. I had no interest beyond that. The rest

"is gibberish to me."

TALIESIN: So you're telling me that somewhere in this
castle there is a storage facility full of caustic

acid that dissolves the very stones of this
castle?

MATT: "Yes."

SAM: I reach out and I take out my potion of acid
resistance and I drink it.

(laughter)

MATT: Okay. Mark that. She looks at you, goes,
"Yes. If you've seen the vents of greenish fume

"billowing out in the garden, that is where the
distillery exhausts to."

TALIESIN: Well, this is interesting.

LAURA: Ziggurat? What's it for?

MARISHA: What exactly does it do?

SAM: Hurry up. Time is of the essence.

MATT: "I don't know. It has something to do with
the Briarwoods' interest in some third party.

"Someone they've been working with. Someone I've
not met, someone who I have no interest in

"inquiring within."

MARISHA: A name. Give us a name, girl.

MATT: "I was not given a name. They don't speak of
this individual's name. They are very secretive

"about it. They paid well, they gave me land, they
gave me a title, and when things were done, I was

"to go free. Which is why I was not happy in which
the predicament you found me, made me."

TRAVIS: Where can we find this ziggurat?

MATT: Her eyes trail down to the floor. "The
ziggurat itself is, well, based on the tunneling

"structure, the distillery's direction? Right
beneath the city of Whitestone."

TRAVIS: The city or this castle?

MARISHA: They're going to destroy this fucking
city.

LAURA: Is it underneath the Sun Tree?

MATT: "No, not the distillery. The ziggurat might
be."

SAM: Wait, what?

TALIESIN: Oh dear.

MARISHA: They're going to-- yeah.

TALIESIN: Are they still melting down the
whitestone for magical energy?

MATT: "No, I don't believe so, not for weeks. We
finished that process for quite a bit now."

MARISHA: So you're done melting the whitestone,
but you still have a whole bunch of this acidic

compound kicking it in a warehouse somewhere?

MATT: "Well, not in a warehouse. That's all kept
stored underneath the garden of the castle."

TRAVIS: We need to finish clearing this house now.
I don't know if they're even here.

TALIESIN: We'd better move.

SAM: Downstairs.

TALIESIN: Downstairs.

MATT: "You were asking about Anders, though. Do
you wish to pay him a visit?"

TALIESIN: (growls)

MATT: You can see a smile on her face. She does
not like Anders.

MARISHA: She's trying-- Percy? Percy, she's trying
to bait you. She's trying to waste time right now.

Come on.

MATT: "He was your sister's keeper."

MARISHA: She's trying to-- Percy, la la la. Percy,
come on.

LAURA: He's probably with the Briarwoods.

MARISHA: Come on, he's not there.

LIAM: I'm off sitting in the shadows, but I say,
Percival, we need to cut off the head.

TALIESIN: Is it possible that my sister would be
with him?

MATT: "It's very possible if she's not here."

LAURA: Anna, shut. Up.

MATT: "Very well."

LAURA: Percival.

MATT: "I only say because my whole--"

LAURA: "Anna!" And I notch an arrow and aim it
right at her throat. "Shut. Up."

MARISHA: Percy?

SAM: Where would this professor be?

MATT: "I imagine his study. It's around the
corner."

TALIESIN: We'll check his study, and then we'll
go.

MARISHA: No!

TALIESIN: Just his study, then we'll go.

MARISHA: Percy!

TALIESIN: Even if he's there, if she's not there,
we'll leave.

TRAVIS: Go. Lead the way.

MARISHA: We're running out of time.

LAURA: Brother, run and check the study.

LIAM: I start running towards the direction that
was described.

LAURA: Let's go towards the under--

TALIESIN: Very well.

LAURA: Lead the way down.

MATT: "Very well."

LAURA: No talking.

SAM: Wait, we're going down?

TRAVIS: Yeah, we're not leaving Vax.

LAURA: We're heading down. He's going to catch
up.

MATT: She begins making her way towards the
landing that leads to the stairway down, whereas

you stealth off in that direction. You find your
way around that corner. Go ahead and roll perception.

LIAM: As I'm moving, by the way, it's minor, but I
take out Clarota's (sniffs, groans) metallic cap

and put it on, and I also whip out this other
cloak that I've been looking at and whip it

around. You're not here. And now continue on.

MATT: All right. So both will attune to you at
your next short rest.

LIAM: Yes, all right, excellent. It's fine.

LAURA: Well, you've worn Clarota's thing before.

LIAM: There's two things. Moving forward.

MATT: All right, make a perception check.

LIAM: That is 22.

MATT: All right, as you make your way down the
hallway, you hear what sounds like a muffled

female voice from behind a distant doorway. Like a
small cry in pain or worry.

LIAM: Do I need to stealth again, or am I already
stealthed?

MATT: You rolled stealth before this.

LIAM: Yeah. It was like 23 before.

MATT: Yeah.

LIAM: So I'm going to move toward that sound.
Carefully.

MATT: Okay. It leads down. There are three
doorways on this side of the hallway. The central

door there is where you hear the noise coming
from.

LIAM: Okay, I'm sticking my ear to the door, and
I'm going to listen for a full minute to see what

I hear.

MATT: You hear a little bit of quiet and a light
sobbing. Then you hear another voice, a male voice,

an older voice, just say quickly, "Shh! You be
quiet until you're told to speak.

"They should be close."

LIAM: I want to gently try the door handle.

MATT: Okay. It is not locked. It does turn.

LIAM: I want to push it like one inch in and try
to peek in.

SAM: Just the tip.

LAURA: Don't.

MARISHA: I'm having deja vu.

LAURA: I know. We've been here before.

MATT: You glance inside the room, and it's a nice
study, and there is a fireplace on one side that

is part of a continuation of a two-story fireplace
column that goes up through the castle on this

side. There are shelves of books, there is a desk
in the far corner, there's a couple of chairs

laying around. From this side, from what you can
see, in the center to the back of the room is an

older gentleman wearing a breastplate. You can see
his very short gray hair, a little bit of facial

hair that's grown in but not to a full beard. It
looks like it's been left to go on its own for a

little while. And he's currently holding a young
woman, roughly early twenties or so with dark

brown hair with a couple streaks of white through
the sides of the temple. Holding her by her hair

with a dagger to her throat, saying, "Shh! Now.
When I tell you, you'll say what I told you to

"say. Got it?"

And you can see she has tears streaking down her
face she's like (gasping).

LIAM: I back up about five steps and very quietly
say, Jenga.

(laughter)

LIAM: And I run at the door and I kick it open and
throw at him.

SAM: Yeah!

TALIESIN: Well, that happened.

SAM: Yeah.

MATT: All righty.

LAURA: So we take off running towards him.

MARISHA: Here we go. Jenga. Fucking asshole.

(laughter)

TALIESIN: Dick!

MARISHA: It's a trap. It's such a trap.

SAM: Of course.

MATT: All right. (laughs) So you have a surprise
round.

LIAM: Yeah.

MARISHA: Come on, Sneak Attack.

MATT: Both those individuals right there. Go ahead
and make your attack.

LIAM: What am I looking at?

MATT: Okay, so as you burst in. You can see the
man's holding, there's the desk behind him, right

there. Papers and stuff scattered on there.
There's some tables around with some chairs. There

are these large bookshelves that hold this side
and there's the fireplace in the far corner right

there. Flames. Warming the room. There's a small
chandelier on the ceiling that has magical light

emanating from it that gives the room this warm
glow. You don't care right now because you're

throwing a fucking dagger.

LIAM: Right. But he's behind her a bit, right?

MATT: Yeah, he's holding her right there with a
dagger to her throat.

LIAM: Well, I recently added the sharpshooter
feat, so three-quarter and half cover means

nothing to me. So I'm going to aim for his eye
that's peeking out the side. All three are

going right in his eye.

MATT: Okay.

LIAM: So here's the first. The first is 24.

MATT: That'll hit.

LIAM: Okay, the second is 26. As you can tell,
I've been screaming monster sounds. My voice is a

little ragged. 26 on the second.

MATT: Hits.

LIAM: And 16 on the third.

MATT: 16 misses. But the first two strike true.

LIAM: The first, it's three plus seven is ten.
Plus 14, 20, 26, 29, 33, 39. That's the first one.

And then the second one does four plus six is ten.
Oh! But it's surprise, so the first one is doubled

because it's automatically a crit.

MATT: All right, so what's that now?

LIAM: Well, it was 39, so now it's 60, 78. For the
first one. Ten for the second.

TALIESIN: I love you.

MATT: Okay. So 88 points of damage. You just went
80 miles per hour on your first turn. As you kick

the doors open. (whoosh) The first dagger, he sees
it coming towards him for a second and attempts to

dodge out of the way, and as he moves this eye out
of the way, the dagger (impact noise) right into

this one, he screams out (screaming) in pain as it
just plunges into his eye socket. Not deep enough

to actually hit any brain, but enough to
definitely take that eye out as any sort of viable

method. The second one just hits him in the
shoulder and a reaction to that, Cassandra screams

out, "No, run! It's a trap!" At which point, he
takes his dagger and just

runs it across her throat.

LAURA: (softly) I don't think it's her. 
It's not her.

MATT: You see crimson start to pour down the front
as she (choking). Go ahead and roll initiative.

LIAM: All right. I'm going to do luck. Yeah.
That's a 22.

TALIESIN: Why would she be saying it's a trap if
it's not her?

LAURA: Could be a peasant.

MATT: All right. Okay. So you're going first.
Also, at this point as you throw the dagger,

you're still at the doorway and you hear what
sounds like two sources of metal clanking

together. You can't really see a source, but you
hear other sounds in the room. What are you doing

with your action?

LIAM: I am running at him and stabbing the shit
out of him.

MATT: Okay, as you cross this boundary, I need you
to go ahead and immediately make a constitution

saving throw.

LIAM: I'll use luck again. Yeah.

SAM: That's two lucks.

LIAM: That's 17 for constitution saving throw.

MATT: Great. All right, so as you step across the
threshold of the room, the tile in front of you

all of a sudden bursts in a flash of blue,
painfully cold energy, like there's a concentrated

moment of shredding ice.

LIAM: Am I able to use evasion for that?

MATT: You can, technically.

LIAM: So if I succeed, I take no damage.

MATT: Correct. Okay, so you take no damage. You
dart across, just managing to use that momentum

and your intensity toward this horrible moment
that just happened before you. And you feel the

explosion happen behind you. You just manage to
pass beyond it. You rush forward to him. All

right. And he's dropped her to the ground now.
She's fallen onto her hands and knees.

LIAM: I'm going into his guts.

MATT: Okay.

LIAM: So first attack is a 25, second attack is a
20, and the third attack is a 26.

One, two, three?

MATT: One, two, three.

LIAM: Oh, and I'm going to turn the poison on for
the poison dagger, which I'm going to use for the

second.

LAURA: Just flip the little switch.

LIAM: Well, it just drips. So nine for the first,
eight for the second, plus the poison is-- shit, I

didn't copy it down here. I think it's 1d12. Let's
say it's 1d12, because I can't remember. If anyone

wants to correct me, they can. Five points of
poison added to the five is 13. And then the last

dagger is nine.

MATT: Okay. So as you rush up to him and shank him
repeatedly in the side, the breastplates

deflecting part of the blow, but you're managing
to find openings in the side, and you go for a

shoulder and jam it underneath his arm, through
his ribcage, and he screams out (yelps) in pain,

and you can see there's blood pouring out the
side of his mouth. And the dagger's returned by

now, but there's this giant gaping, bleeding wound
on the side of his face where one of his eyes is

completely ruined. He looks both surprised,
angered, and very, very confused about the way

things suddenly happened.

LIAM: Hello.

MATT: All right so that's your turn.

LIAM: That's it, I'm out.

MATT: Okay, he's going to go.

TALIESIN: Goddamn it.

LIAM: We're six seconds in, Taliesin.

MATT: First off, there were two sets of
decorative armor on the sides of the wall that

suddenly have filled with some sort of reddish
arcane energy that gives them a solid physical

form, and they both step off their pedestals and
begin (heavy impact) making their way towards you.

But before all that happens, Professor Anders in
front of you, wounded and not looking terribly

happy at the moment, is going to use his action to
attempt to cast Confusion on you. So he goes to

step back, and (grunting) just releases his hand
in front of you as one functioning eye bores into

you as he screams out. You can feel the pressure
towards your head. Go ahead and make a wisdom

saving throw.

LIAM: Wisdom, which I have advantage.

MATT: Well, wisdom saving throw because of that
anyway, so.

LIAM: That is a 20.

MATT: A 20? The effect shrugs off. Nothing on you.
He is going to attempt to step back--

LIAM: Oh, attack him.

MATT: So you get attack of opportunity on him.

LIAM: Yeah, it's a 22.

MATT: 22? Okay, that does hit.

LIAM: Eight.

MATT: Okay. He will use his bonus action and he--
let me look up the definition of it real fast.

Okay, takes a bonus action as he steps back,
"(grunts) Come. Take this inspiration to defeat my

foe!" And he lends an inspiration dice to one of
the armored creatures stepping forward towards

you. Now it's their turn. Both these armored
creatures pull out swords, and they lift up the

shields that they had to their sides, and they
rush into you from two sides right there. You see

this as they rush up to you: they're not really
touching the ground, they're gliding across it. So

the first one is going to attempt to strike you
with two attacks of its longsword. That is a 14?

LIAM: No.

MATT: Second one is a 17.

LIAM: No.

MATT: All right. The second one now is going to go
ahead and take two swings at you. That is an 18.

LIAM: Yeah, but I'll use uncanny dodge.

MATT: To reduce the damage by half?

LIAM: Yeah.

MATT: Okay, so the first strike hits you for 13
points of slashing damage.

LIAM: So, half that or all of that?

MATT: That'll be half that.

LIAM: Half that. Okay, so seven.

MATT: There you go. And then that's going to be a
24 to hit.

LIAM: That hits, yeah.

MATT: And this is not halved. Okay, that's 12
points of slashing damage.

LIAM: All right.

MATT: Okay, now to Cassandra's turn. She is on the
ground just spilling out her life essence onto the

ground. She's clutching at her throat and is like
(gasping). You hear that horrible sucking sound of

her feeling her life drain from her. She's not
unconscious, but she doesn't have long for this

world. All right, that brings us to the top of the
round. The rest of you guys are now rushing, I

assume, dash motion, making your way as fast as
you can to that side. Due to distance, you would

all get to the end of this hallway, about there.

TALIESIN: Is that including sprint?

MATT: Well, the dash action, yeah.

TALIESIN: That's full dash?

MATT: This is your movement and then dash action,
you guys, because you guys were down in this area,

heading down the stairs. You just made it up and
over. And this is Ripley. We'll use that for

Ripley for now. Everyone else roll initiative.
We're in a new combat round.

TALIESIN: What the hell!?

MARISHA: Oh! Percy's pissed.

TALIESIN: I Percy'd again.

MARISHA: He Percy'd.

MATT: Who got him that dice?

(laughter)

TRAVIS: The golden snitch is powerful.

TALIESIN: No, I was on Group Hug last week with
somebody else's dice, and it was comedy.

LAURA: It's just you, Taliesin.

TALIESIN: Thank you.

MATT: You are the anti-Wheaton.

TALIESIN: I'm the anti-Wheaton.

MATT: If you guys were to play in the same group,
all RPGs would fold into themselves and no longer

exist. It's like the end of Timecop. It'll be
terrible. Okay, so initiatives. We have 25 to 20?

TALIESIN: 28.

MATT: 28.

TRAVIS: 21.

MATT: 21. Remember your advantage, by the way.

TRAVIS: That's the second roll.

MATT: All right, so Percy at the top.

TRAVIS: Feral instinct.

MATT: All right, and you were at-- I think your
initiative was 20?

LIAM: I don't remember. It was early 20s.

MATT: Early 20s, yeah, so it'd be Percy, Vax. 20
to 15?

MARISHA: 13.

SAM: 19.

MATT: 19.

MARISHA: Oh wait, sorry. Might have jumped the gun
a bit there. I'm excited. Sorry. I'm bringing up

the ranks anyway, I think. It's fine.

MATT: Keyleth, all right. Vex, what'd you get?

LAURA: 11.

MATT: 11.

LIAM: I'm Vax.

MATT: I know, I said Vex! I got it right this
time!

LIAM: Oh, you're from California.

LAURA: Yeah. (laughing)

MATT: Technically, I'm from Florida. All right, so
Percy, you're up first.

TALIESIN: Can I drag Ripley with me?

MATT: You can, but you'll be moving half
movement.

TALIESIN: Fuck.

TRAVIS: Leave her. Somebody else--

TALIESIN: So as my bonus action before anything
happens I'm going to tell her, she lives, you

show us where the entrance to the caverns are, you
walk with your things. And run.

LAURA: She was trying to set us up in this trap.
You do understand that?

MARISHA: Oh yeah, she's all about this fucking
shit.

MATT: Full movement?

TALIESIN: Full movement.

MATT: Okay, that's your full turn there. All
right, that ends your turn, Percy.

LIAM: I have one healing potion left, and I'm
going to take it and stick it into this girl's

mouth and empty it and maybe drip a little on her
neck as well.

MATT: Okay, go for it.

MARISHA: Maybe hold her neck. Make sure it goes
down.

MATT: Well, you have to roll to heal. You pull
back, and it's a really unsettling thing as you

pull up her head to try and feed her the potion.

LIAM: It's 2d4?

MATT: It's just a regular healing potion?

LIAM: Yeah, regular. It's the lowest of the rung.
Moderate? I think it's called moderate?

MATT: Sorry, got it right here. That's 2d4 plus
two.

LIAM: So four. Six. And then I want to step in
front of her, between her and that one, and then

stab the one.

MATT: Okay, as you take the potion, it's a messy
process. You get most of it in her, but some of it

drips on the ground, but the wound seems to close.
All the blood goes away on the ground around her

neck from the splashing of the potion, which has
vanished entirely, and you can see she's

(gasping).

LAURA: That's good.

MATT: She's right on the edge, but she's looking
pretty rough.

LIAM: So is that the bonus action, or is that the
action?

MATT: That was your action.

LIAM: Action, okay. By the way, I'm realizing I
didn't click my boots, so I did one two three

before, and the third one missed, so luckily that
worked out, but I'm not clicking those.

MATT: Thank you for the reminder. So used to
dagger, dagger, dagger. I'm like, "Wait, no."

LIAM: So I just step between them, and that's all
I can do, yeah?

MATT: Okay, so you move into there, great. That's
your turn.

LIAM: No, I mean between her and the closest one
to her.

TALIESIN: Oh yeah, we've got this new thing now.
That's so much better.

MATT: For those who don't know, we have a top-down
camera for the players, which is really helpful

for them to know--

LAURA: What's going on.

MATT: So you move.

LIAM: I was hoping to stand in front of her, yeah.
Like that.

MATT: So you push her aside and get in between the
two, okay. Cool, that ends your turn.

Grog, you're up.

TRAVIS: Dead sprint after Percy.

MATT: Okay, and your speed is?

TRAVIS: 50.

LIAM and TALIESIN: (heavy footsteps)

TALIESIN: Yeah!

MARISHA: What's up, Grog?

MATT: You can get all the way up into here, but
that's all you can do this turn. Yeah, so you're

(heavy footsteps) bounding down the hall. You push
past Percy and rush into the room, and you see a

young girl on the ground, doubled over, barely
conscious. You see Vax stepping in front of these

weird, glowing armored creatures, and at the back
of the room, there's a man with bleeding, gaping

eye socket.

TRAVIS: What the fuck did you do?

LIAM: Welcome to the party.

MATT: All right. Scanlan, you're up.

SAM: I'm up? I run as fast as my little legs will
take me. 25.

MATT: There you go.

SAM: I can't see them, so I'll just inspire--
Who's going to get in there next? Who's behind me?

Can I inspire people that I can't see?

MATT: I think they have to be in your sight.

TALIESIN: You can see me, though whether or not
you want to inspire me at this point is definitely

debatable.

MATT: You can inspire somebody else in the hallway, if
you'd like.

SAM: All right. They can't even make it in the
next turn, right?

MARISHA: No, but we'll keep it.

SAM: Sure. I will inspire Vex, behind me, and I'll
say, (sings) Arrows and bows, they fire at our

foes and kill them, and they make them ghosts.
They won't let go.

SAM and LAURA: (sing) Arrows and bows!

MATT: As the beat hits you, you feel yourself a
little more sure shot with any arrows. Take your

d10 inspiration die.

LIAM: Forearms go (explosion noises).

(laughter)

MATT: All righty. So, that brings us to-- all
right. Professor Anders, now, is taking his turn.

MARISHA: Professor Anders.

SAM: Professor Anders.

MARISHA: Professor Anders.

LIAM: Mr. Anderson.

MATT: He sees this giant creature in the room
looming and he reaches up and closes up one eye

and goes, "You. Do this for me." And as he looks
at you for a second, he releases another spell and

you feel a familiar arcane grasp begin to curl
over the back of your mind. Go ahead and roll a

wisdom saving throw with advantage because of your
Heroes' Feast.

TRAVIS: All right, okay.

LIAM: Come on, baby. One more time.

TRAVIS: 14.

MATT: 14. Your brain, not tempered against these
types of magics and having previously failed you

before. You feel your will no longer become your
own as now you are an instrument of destruction

controlled by Professor Anders. You've been
Dominated.

TALIESIN: Damn it!

LAURA: Fuck!

SAM: Oh no. Dominate goliath.

LAURA: We've got to kill that motherfucker!

MATT: Okay. I mean, he looks to you and goes,
"Kill that one!" And points to Vax, and you look

down at Vax with a grin as the blood-letting
you've wanted so bad,

your target lies before you.

SAM: Hulk versus Wolverine!

(laughter)

MATT: Ending Anders's turn--

TALIESIN: Remember what he did to your beard.

TRAVIS: I know, is it me grinning, or is it
dominated Grog?

(laughter)

MATT: Moves to here.

TALIESIN: Hulk versus Wolverine, man. I'm excited
by that.

MATT: Both of these horrors move and shift around
now at this moment to get on each sides of you,

giving them both a flanking bonus. Now it's four
strikes, longsword against you, with advantage.

Double eights. Can't roll shit!

LIAM: Why advantage? I'm just curious. Give it to
me, but what's the advantage from?

MATT: They have advantage against you because they
moved into flanking position.

LIAM: Because they're in flanking. Got it.

MATT: Which, for those who're curious about it, it
is an optional rule in the DMG. It exists. Second

attack. Three and a four. I can't roll!

TALIESIN: (sucking sounds)

MATT: So this guy just whiffs with both of his
weapon strikes.

MARISHA: You're sucking his energy?

TALIESIN: (raspy) I have your power.

MATT: Natural 20 on the next strike.

LAURA and MARISHA: Spoke too soon.

MATT: Two natural 20s.

TALIESIN: Damn it!

MATT: It was a miss and a natural 20 on the first
attack, and then a natural 20 on the first roll of

the second attack.

TALIESIN: Goddamn it. I'm sorry.

MARISHA: Spoke too soon.

MATT: So you take on the first hit--

MARISHA: You mock fate, fate punches you in the
mouth.

MATT: That would be 16 points of slashing damage,
and 20 points of slashing damage with the second

strike, so a total of 36 points of slashing
damage. And you can feel this strange, angry

vibrating growl coming from within this unhallowed
armor that floats before you. That ends their go.

Keyleth, you're up.

MARISHA: I'm running like hell. Running, running,
running. Can I see? Can I peek around the corner

just to see?

MATT: You can just peek around the corner and see
the circumstance.

MARISHA: Can I see Cassandra?

MATT: You do, yes.

MARISHA: Healing Word.

MATT: Okay, go ahead and roll.

SAM: Do you know it's her?

TALIESIN: Yeah.

LAURA: Either way. Whoever it is.

SAM: Do you know what she looks like?

TRAVIS: Just do what you're going to do.

LAURA: Just do it.

SAM: Okay.

MARISHA: Healing Word.

TALIESIN: Family resemblance.

MARISHA: Family resemblance.

MATT: I'd say given the circumstances, you have an
inkling that someone's in danger there. And the

calling of Jenga. So go for it.

MARISHA: I'll cast it-- no, I'm just going to keep
it at 1st level for now. I'm going to save my

higher-level ones for Cure Wounds, so I'm going to
cast it at 1st level, so that's 1d4 plus my

spellcaster. Three. That's not too bad. No, sorry.
16? No, 13.

MATT: 13? Okay, good to know. All righty. That's
your turn. Vex, you're up.

LAURA: So I'm with Anna. Trinket-- I tell him to
hold onto her and drag her along with us.

MATT: Okay.

LAURA: So he clamps down on her arm.

MATT: So one, two. He's going to attempt to
grapple her. Go ahead and roll an athletics check

with advantage because she's not expecting it.

LAURA: 16?

MATT: Okay. Trinket grabs onto the scruff of her
coat and begins pushing forward. They both get the

rest of half of his movement because he's forcing
her forward. That's as far as he can get.

LAURA: But I can keep running? I can run all the
way up?

MATT: What's your speed? Is it 30?

LAURA: 30.

MATT: You get about there, right at the edge.

LAURA: So I can shoot an arrow?

MATT: No, that's your movement and then your dash
action to get there.

LAURA: Okay, cool.

MATT: All right. Ripley is just going to stay put
for the time being. She's held by a bear and being

pushed along. She's just "Ugh."

TALIESIN: With no weapons and no armor.

MATT: Leather armor, basically.

TALIESIN: Leather armor, yeah.

MATT: Percy, you're up.

TALIESIN: I'm going to run in. I can move six,
right?

MATT: You can move six squares, yes.

TALIESIN: One, two. Can I get a good view of
Professor Anders and maybe get a little cover from

the dining room table?

MATT: You can a little bit, yeah.

TALIESIN: All right, I'll take my cover. I'm going
to pull out--

MATT: As you walk in, around the corner you can
see these armor attacking Grog, his axe forward at

these two armored entities floating in the air.
You see Anders in the corner, clutching a hand

over one eye with blood streaking down the face, a
number of wounds bleeding out from the armor.

Already been a rough day for him, and your eye
slips down, and for the first time in a long time,

you see on the ground before you, clutching her
throat, no wound or blood splatter but clutching

her throat and breathing heavily, your sister
Cassandra. And you look back up at Anders and you

feel the burning rage begin to billow up inside
you, and as you walk in the room towards the

center of the table, you guys who are able to see
the room, you see now, from outside of his

sleeves, outside from under his coat, there's
blackish purple smoke beginning to (whoosh) billow

out from behind.

MARISHA: Does it seem more extreme than it has
been in the past?

MATT: It seemed pretty extreme in the past. It
just started; you don't know. Go for it.

TALIESIN: Bonus, I pull off my hat of disguise,
drop it on the floor. And I'm going to just unload

at that motherfucker.

MATT: As you pull off the hat, your image shifts
fully to Percy, at which point Anders looks back

and sees this source of smoke and glances over.
His hand falls away at a moment of realization,

eye goes wide. "Percy..."

TALIESIN: Shot one.

MATT: All right.

TALIESIN: Oh, for the love of god!

MARISHA: Oh, when it counts.

SAM and MARISHA: (ricochet noise)

MATT: In the frustration, the rage and such, you
pull up your gun and as you go to fire, the bullet

gets caught in the chamber and it almost ejects
the entire barrel from the front of it. It's not

too difficult to repair, but it definitely upsets
the current flow.

TALIESIN: I'm going to attempt to repair it really
quickly. Trying to remember how to do that because

I hate it. (mumbling)

MATT: Is it an action or is it an attack to do?
Should say under the--

TALIESIN: Action, shit.

MATT: Yeah, so you have to use your next turn to
try and repair it.

TALIESIN: (sighs) So I'm just going to sit and
scream a little bit. (shouting)

MATT: Okay, you can see that this whole moment
here, as the smoke pours out from the front of the

gun, you yell out angrily and there is this
unnatural bassy reverb from your scream that

shakes the room. Anders actually takes a step back
from this and is looking about the room, and finds

himself basically trapped in the far corner of his
study.

MARISHA: Oh, you better not!

MATT: That ends your turn.

TALIESIN: That's my turn.

MATT: Vax.

LIAM: I'm going to use disengage, and I'm going to
hop over Cassandra towards Anders and stab him in

the other eye.

MATT: Okay.

LIAM: First attack is 21.

MATT: That hits.

LIAM: Second attack is 17.

MATT: That hits.

LIAM: Okay, ten on the first, ten on the second.

MATT: Okay. Needs to make concentration checks to
see if he can maintain his Dominate. Against ten

damage? That succeeds, and yeah, that succeeds. So
he maintains concentration of his spell, but both

daggers, you just run up and stab him. This angry
grunt under your breath with each stab and you can

feel the armor itself is now warm with the pooling
blood from the wounds that you gave him before.

He's looking pretty rough.

LIAM: So, question? I asked if I could hit the
eye. Did I hit the eye?

MATT: Unfortunately, no. It's one of those things
where a Sneak Attack would be an eye shot for this

one. You go and try and stab towards the eye, and
he pulls away; he knows what's coming and uses

that inertia to jam it into his side and stab a
second time in there. So yeah, no purchase in the

eye, unfortunately.

LIAM: Okay. And I'm squared off right in front of
him.

MATT: Yeah, just right in front of him. That ends
your turn. Grog.

TRAVIS: So when you're dominated, does that mean
charmed?

MATT: Essentially, you have to follow his orders.
He's not directly, specifically controlling you

right now, but he told you, "Attack him," so you
have to use all the things at your disposal to now

attack him.

TRAVIS: Okay. I can't try and break the
domination? Or rage?

MATT: Nope. You get a saving throw at the end of
your turn.

TRAVIS: I'm not raging.

MATT: You're not raging.

TRAVIS: So I only get two.

MATT: One. You step over Cassandra, (impact noise)
stepping on the back of her leg, and find your way

right there, which is flanking him between Anders,
so you have advantage on both your attacks.

LAURA: Shit.

TRAVIS: It's a three.

LAURA: That's good.

TRAVIS: 21.

LIAM: Yeah.

MATT: Second attack.

TRAVIS: 26.

MATT: Both hit. Go ahead and roll damage.

TRAVIS: Really trying not to enjoy this.

MATT: (laughs) With your flaming war hammer.

TRAVIS: 18 for the first one.

MATT: 18 points of slashing damage. No, sorry,
bludgeoning damage.

TRAVIS: Bludgeoning, yeah. And fire. 20, 21.

MATT: 21 points of bludgeoning and fire damage
with the second strike.

LIAM: I am on my feet, but I am swaying back and
forth.

MATT: Unexpectedly, these two titanic slams hit
you from behind. The first one throws you into

Anders for a second. Anders then pushes you away,
and as you are still reeling from the impact, you

look up and see the hammer come down, and (whack)
you move your head out in time, preventing you

from being squished, but the impact hits your
shoulder and the side of your neck, and your whole

body crumples into itself. You cry out in pain
instinctively, just (screams) from the hit. And

your whole world blurs for a second as you're
barely keeping yourself on your feet. Grog, that

ends your turn. You can make another saving throw
with advantage to try and shrug the effect.

TRAVIS: Yeah. Add wisdom right?

MATT: Yes.

TRAVIS: 19?

MATT: 19. With that, the momentary controlled
bloodshed fades. Your mind becomes your own, and

what little bit of remorse you may feel for the
battered Vax in front of you, you can't help but

laugh a little bit. But then you turn your
attention to the one who bent your will, and your

rage begins to swell up inside you. So that ends
your turn. Scanlan, you're up.

SAM: I continue my long journey into the room.

MATT: You just get past there, and you can see
into the room. You have visual on, yeah, pretty

much everything in the room from there.

SAM: So I have to make a ranged shot if I'm to do
anything.

MATT: Correct, yeah.

SAM: What do I see? Can I see how rough Vax is?

MATT: At a glance, it's hard to tell.

LIAM: I'm bleeding out my mouth.

MATT: He's also facing away from you.

SAM: Looks normal to me.

MATT: You see Grog and Vax facing off the guy in
the corner. You see two of these large armored

entities.

SAM: Okay, I'll go for them.

MATT: Okay.

SAM: Wand of Magic Missiles. And I'll shoot three
at the one at the left. That's the first charge,

and then use three additional charges on the one
on the right.

MATT: Okay. How many charges were restored in the
wand from your last long rest?

SAM: I roll every day, and I restored five and I
had used five, so it's back to normal. I have

seven total.

MATT: So you're casting three on one and then--

SAM: An additional three on the other.

MATT: Okay, go for it. So that's 3d4 plus three to
each one. Go for it.

SAM: Right, 3d4. Okay.

MATT: (magical sound effects) Releasing the wand
on both flicks of your wrist, you can see these

bursts of arcane energy swirl around and slam into
each one of these creatures.

SAM: 3d4 plus three? Is that right? Is that how it
works, Matt?

MATT: Yes.

SAM: Okay, so five (mumbles), eight. Lame. And
(mumbles) nine, no wait. Yes, nine.

MATT: Okay. All right. (explosion noise) The
impact hits. You see the armor shake for a second and

look angered and frustrated for what a faceless
arcane entity in armor could, and both heads just

go (shhhh) and look in your direction simultaneously. That
ends your turn.

SAM: Oh, and I will inspire Grog. (sings) This
is the dawning of the age of a-Grog-ius. Age of

a-Grog-ius. A-Grog-ius!

(laughter)

TRAVIS: d10?

MATT: The words are lost on you, but it's a nice
theme. You take a d10, yeah.

TRAVIS: Not quite my jam, but I'll still take it.

MATT: All right, that ends your turn. Anders,
frustrated by the whole circumstance and on the

cusp of a really bad circumstance, is going to
attempt to cast Dimension Door.

MARISHA: I knew it. I knew he was going to do
that.

LIAM: Do I get an attack? A reaction attack?

MATT: Not unless you have-- there's a feat that
lets you do that.

LIAM: No.

MATT: Yeah, I think it's mage slayer.

LIAM: I don't have that.

MATT: Okay, all right.

SAM: Do I see him?

MATT: Yeah, you see him.

SAM: I take out my broken shawm and I (piercing
whistle). And I cast Counterspell on him.

MATT: Right, because you took that when you
leveled up.

(cheering)

MATT: All right. Oh lord bards. Shit.

TRAVIS: (laughs) Shit.

SAM: Wait, I have to tell a level, don't I?

MATT: Yeah, you can tell me what level.

SAM: Do I know, because he's a bard, what he's
doing?

MATT: You are very familiar with the spell. It is
a 4th-level spell.

SAM: Then I cast it at fourth level.

MATT: Okay. Then there is no roll. With that, he
takes a moment to finish casting. You see there's

a moment where this bit of purple arcane energy,
familiar to most of you as Scanlan's escapes, begins

to sparkle behind him and as he goes to step into
it, the shawm shrieks out into the room, he

(groans) reaches up and covers his eye as it
almost seems to be shrill to his head and cause the

pain to pulse and the doorway just slams behind
him. (panting)

SAM: Uh-uh, that door is locked, motherfucker!

(laughter)

SAM: Get used to it, because I am!

(laughter)

MATT: Yeah, that's his turn. That was his action.
He's going to use his bonus action to say, "Come

"to my aid! Quickly!" He's going to put another
inspiration die to the other armor. And that's

going to end his turn. It's now their turn. They
are both going to come around. This one is just

going to move around Grog; no attack of
opportunity because it's still in your melee. This

one is going to step into range from over here.
This one is going to turn and go for Percy. Sees

this billowing as you're stuck there trying to fix
the gun, and just rushing towards you with its

shield forward, its horrible, jagged longsword in
the air arcing towards you. Two strikes versus

you. That'll be a 19?

LIAM: That hits.

MATT: Okay, first strike, you take nine points of
slashing damage.

LIAM: I'm down.

MATT: So you go down. Second strike, because it's
still going for you, hits automatically. It's an

auto critical. You fail two death saving throws.

LIAM: That's it?

MATT: That ends its turn. This one is now going
for you, Percy. First strike.

That would be a nine.

TALIESIN: No.

MATT: It's going to use its inspiration die. Add
nine to that, so 18.

TALIESIN: 18? That's my armor class.

MATT: (evil laugh) Bards! I'm sorry. I don't get
to use them very often. So that is 11 points of

slashing damage. And the other strike-- oh, that's
a natural 18, so yeah, that will be... cocked. Oh,

only eight points of slashing damage.

TALIESIN: So 19 points of slashing damage, total?

MATT: Correct. (whooshing) And it's painful, but
not a huge thing at this point. You're so focused

right now on the weapon. All right. That ends
their turn. Keyleth, you're up.

MARISHA: Okay, can I see Vax down? Which one
is he on the ground?

MATT: Vax is right there. You see him get slashed
from behind, fall to the ground, and you see it

raise a blade again and jam it into his torso,
pull it out, and there's a streak of blood that

just spatters across the ceiling from the force of
the arc.

TALIESIN: Yeah, I think you saw that.

MARISHA: Okay. So I'm going to move around, tuck
in the door a bit.

MATT: Okay, so you move in and you see this. As
you rush into the room, you see this arc

happening.

MARISHA: Can I tuck right here? God, I'm shaking.
Yeah, right behind that door.

MATT: Right there, yeah. That'll be pretty much
your movement to get there.

MARISHA: Okay, I'm going to duck down, crouch on
the floor. I'm going to cast-- first I'm going

to-- god I'm so nervous-- I'm going to use Healing
Word on Vax, and heal that motherfucker.

MATT: At what level?

MARISHA: You're like down down, right?

LAURA: He's unconscious.

LIAM: And I-- there wasn't even any rolls for
that, right?

LAURA: No.

MATT: If you're unconscious and a creature hits
you, you automatically fail a death saving throw

and if it's a critical hit, which if you're
unconscious a hit is an automatic critical, it's

technically two death saving throws.

LIAM: Yeah, and just to understand the whole
breakdown, but where do the three rolls come in?

LAURA: If nobody hits you--

LIAM: Oh, if nobody hits, got it.

MATT: Yeah, if nobody hits you and it's your turn,
you roll to see if you-- but if something keeps

hitting you while you're down? Can kill you pretty
quick.

LIAM: Got it.

MATT: Like two hits.

MARISHA: But he just hit zero hit points, so
whatever I bring will bring him over, correct?

MATT: Yeah, and your death saves go away. It's per
turn. Per time you go down.

MARISHA: Okay, I'm just going to do a-- I'm sorry,
a level one Healing Word for right now.

MATT: Okay.

MARISHA: Yes, which gives you 12 hit points. And
then I'm going to use my bonus action to cast

Grasping Vine, and I'm going to take the vine and
I'm going to wrap it around--

MATT: Your source?

MARISHA: Huh?

MATT: Which source?

MARISHA: Next to me.

MATT: Okay. So right here?

MARISHA: I guess, yes.

MATT: Okay so, out of the wood, a vine-- or it's
not wood, actually. This would be a stone wall. So

out of a crack in the wall, little bit of material
begins to form into a giant vine that forms next to you.

What are you doing with it?

MARISHA: I want to wrap it around Cassandra's
feet, her ankle, and I want to

pull her toward me.

MATT: You pull her over to the side and she gets
pulled across the ground, and she's on her back

now looking up. Her eyes are a little starry-eyed,
but she's (panting). Looks very confused, and her

eyes are still adjusting to the whole
circumstance.

MARISHA: And I say, "Hi! Just hang on." And that's
my turn.

MATT: Yep. All right. Vex, you're up.

LAURA: Okay. So I saw him go down.

MATT: Yes.

LAURA: Does it look like he's awake now to me? I'm
mean, it was all happening very quickly.

MATT: You have no idea. This all happens very
quickly. You just saw your brother take a huge--

LAURA: I scream and I run towards him.

MATT: Okay.

LAURA: I slide down on my knees and slide across
the room and try to cast Healing Word the minute--

or cast Cure Wounds the minute I get to him.

MATT: You won't get close enough to do it,
unfortunately.

LAURA: If I slide down and slide?

MATT: Make an acrobatics check. For this
circumstance, due to the circumstances with your

brother being on the ground, I'll let this be a
little more intense.

SAM: With inspiration.

LAURA: With inspiration. That is-- wait, hold on.

LIAM: Acrobatics.

LAURA: Acrobatics?

MATT: Yeah.

LAURA: Oh, that's good. 17?

MATT: 17, all right. With that, you rush forward,
just seeing this tunnel vision image of Vax on the

ground, blood pooling under his form. You dart
forward, slam on your knees and begin preparing

the spell as you skid across the stone floor of
the study. You reach out and your hands meet his

form, stopping you in the process just as the surge of
healing energy jolts through his body. So you can

go ahead and cast it on him.

LAURA: Okay, so I'm going to cast that at 3rd
level. So that's 3d8. Where are my d8s? That was

the worst roll! Nine!

MATT: So you heal nine hit points.

LIAM: That's good.

LAURA: That's okay, because I slid to you.

LIAM: It was amazing. I'll never forget it.

MATT: (laughs) Okay, that's your turn.

LAURA: Yeah, and Trinket keeps dragging her.

MATT: Forward? Okay. That ends your turn. All
right, go ahead and roll an athletics check for

Trinket.

LAURA: Right, okay. It's going to count even
though it slipped out of my hand. It's eight.

MATT: Eight? Okay. Trinket, holding onto the
scruff of Ripley's neck. Ripley then tugs away

from the grip. Reaches into the pouch she had
earlier. As a bonus action throws down a small

rock that (explosion noise) fills this entire
tunnel here with a 20 by 20 fog cloud, apparently.

And now that she's disengaged, she's going
to...

MARISHA: She smoke-bombed out.

LAURA: She ain't got no weapons.

MATT: Nope. Trinket does get an attack of
opportunity on her as she runs past.

SAM: Yeah, Trinket does. Come on, Trinket.

LAURA: All right, he's going to bite her. Can he
cannonball her as an attack of opportunity?

MATT: No, unfortunately.

LAURA: No? Not so much?

MATT: No, sorry.

LAURA: Nine.

MATT: Nine. All right

LAURA: Oh wait! Oh, no. I've got to roll for
attack first, huh?

MATT: Yeah.

LAURA: That was not what I was doing. So that's
21.

MATT: That hits, yeah.

LAURA: Okay, good. That's way better.

MATT: She has no armor.

LAURA: Oh, I don't know what I'm doing. What is
going on? I never attack with Trinket. 13.

MATT: Okay, got it.

TALIESIN: Cautionary tale in there somewhere.

MATT: She runs past. The whole area is obscured
for Trinket. Trinket for the moment really has no

idea really where she went as she rushed past, and
bit out and is now giving out this (bear growl)

notification growl sound, but in the chaos right
now, it's not catching your attention as your

brother nearly died before you.

LAURA: Right.

MATT: All right, that ends her turn. Percy, you're
up.

TALIESIN: I'm going to break-- first off, I'm
going to fix my gun.

MATT: Okay, go ahead and make your roll.

TALIESIN: I'm going to make my roll. Come on. What
do I have to roll? (muttering) I hit the

difficulty. Does that--

MATT: You hit it, then yeah. With the creature
looming there, you manage to bend it back into

place. You get it aligned as best as you can.
That's your action, though.

TALIESIN: If that had been a slightly bigger
fuck-up, that would have been-- oh god! Okay.

MATT: So your gun's functional, but that's your
action.

TALIESIN: I'm going to use an action surge anyway,
so it doesn't matter.

MATT: Yes, you are. Okay.

TALIESIN: I'm going to break off from this guy,
and I'm going to rush towards Professor.

MATT: Okay, gets an attack of opportunity on you.

TALIESIN: Go ahead. Don't care.

MATT: Guy rolls a 14.

TALIESIN: Yeah.

MATT: So you just (whoosh) duck under it
instinctually. It comes toward you. Eyes forward,

you duck underneath the blade.

TALIESIN: I push him in the face. I don't care.

MATT: Okay, you get right up to there, and you can
see Anders backing away as you approach.

TALIESIN: I'm going to unload in him.

MATT: Go for it.

TALIESIN: That's 21 to hit.

MATT: That hits.

TALIESIN: That's 25 to hit.

MATT: That hits.

TALIESIN: That's a natural 20.

MARISHA: There is Percy!

TRAVIS: What the fuck?

MATT: Anti-Wheaton.

TALIESIN: Okay, let's see, that's 11.

MATT: Okay.

TALIESIN: 14.

MATT: All righty. This is the critical.

TALIESIN: Yep, this is the critical which is
seven, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 20 with fire damage.

MATT: Okay. How do you want to do this?

(cheering)

TALIESIN: How close to him do I get? And this was
without smoke damage, I might add.

MATT: You can get one more step up there. You can
take the shots as you're stepping towards him,

unloading.

TALIESIN: Yeah, I'm unloading as I walk towards
him.

MATT: So the first one (gunshot) blasts out the
shoulder. You can see the bone exposed, the metal

breastplate sundered by the bullet, as he backs up
(gasping) As you're walking towards him, he begins

shouting, "Percival, you disappoint us all. All
you had to do was die like a good de Rolo."

TALIESIN: Traitor! And I've got two more shots.
Next shot.

MATT: This one (gunshot) into his chest, and you
can see the actual breastplate bends inward to the

wound and he's (choking noise) spitting out blood
from his mouth as he bends forward. "This land has

"a greater destiny. You and that fool Ripley, you
place your faith in toys and dust. You seek the

"transient truths."

TALIESIN: How close am I to him at this point?

MATT: You're stepping up to him.

TALIESIN: Perfect.

MATT: And as you're doing this, as you're pull the
mask down, he says, "I die to rise again. We are

"his blood."

TALIESIN: I put my gun in his mouth to shut him
the fuck up. "You're the face I saw when murder

"entered my heart. This is your doing." And I pull
the trigger.

MATT: With that, a resounding blast (explosion
noise) echoes through the room. The back of his

head just scatters across the wall behind him. The
top of his head folds in a little bit from the

lack of a substantial base, and he tumbles
backwards, releasing the gun with a limp (splat)

onto the ground behind. You're still holding the
Pepperbox in front of you, hands shaking. As you

hold it there, looking at it, you can see there's
a flash of purple energy across the barrel that

has Anders's name across it and (fluttering noise)
the name burns away, leaving the barrel blank.

TALIESIN: (heavy breathing)

MATT: Smoke begins to subside a little bit. It's
still there, but it seems like at the moment, it

has this release aspect to it.

TALIESIN: That's my turn.

MATT: Yeah, that is your turn. Vax you're up.

LIAM: How close are the suits of armor to me? I
can't tell.

MATT: There's one over here, and there's one--
technically it's right next to you.

LIAM: Right next to me? And am I still prone?

MATT: You're still prone.

LIAM: So how much movement does it take to--

MATT: Half your movement.

LIAM: Half my movement.

SAM: Don't give him an attack of opportunity.

LIAM: No, I'm going to get up, and I'm going to
use disengage.

MATT: As a bonus action, okay.

LIAM: Yeah, and I'm going to skip back into the
corner, and at this point I can throw one dagger

at that suit of armor, so I'm going to do that.

MATT: Yes, you can.

LIAM: That is 19.

MATT: That hits.

LIAM: I have no voice left. That is an 11.

MATT: 11 points of damage, all righty. Great,
okay. Let's see here now. That ends your turn. I

had the list down here. All right. Grog, you're
up.

TRAVIS: Am I flanked by two suits of armor or just
one?

MATT: Nope, there's just one right next to you.

TRAVIS: I'll turn to him and rage.

MATT: Okay. Regular rage.

TRAVIS: Regular rage, and swing away.

LIAM: Classic rage, we call it.

TRAVIS: Classic rage.

LAURA: Good old classic rage.

TRAVIS: 14?

MATT: 14 hits.

TRAVIS: Nice. And 25.

MATT: Both hit, yeah.

LAURA: You get three hits.

TRAVIS: Nah, just two.

LAURA: I thought rage-- oh.

TRAVIS: Believe me, I know. 17 with the fire
damage. First one.

MATT: Okay.

TRAVIS: 18 on the second one.

MATT: Okay, cool. So as you slam your hammer twice
into it, the armor dents. You can see now, the

energy that's holding it together is flickering,
almost like the arcane entity that resides within

it is having a hard time keeping itself in
physical form. All right. That end your turn,

unless you want to move or do anything else.

TRAVIS: Nope.

SAM: Did you hit?

MATT: Scanlan. You're up.

TRAVIS: Yeah, twice.

SAM: Okay. Oh, me? Oh man, I can't do anything
against these fuckers.

MARISHA: Yes, you can.

LIAM: You're Scanlan Shorthalt.

MARISHA: Believe!

SAM: All right. I'll enter the room, I suppose.
Just a little. Right there.

MARISHA: Just the tip.

SAM: Just the tip, and shit. I don't want to waste
anything on these fuckers. Okay, let's see here.

I'll just do-- 2d8. All right, I'll run up.
Actually, a little bit closer to the guy closest

to me.

MATT: Okay. You'll get into melee with him if you
do.

SAM: What does that mean?

MATT: Means if you want to do any ranged attack or
spell attack roll, you would have disadvantage on

it, but otherwise it has no effect.

LAURA: He can attack you, though, because he's
right next to you.

SAM: He won't be for long.

MATT: Okay.

SAM: So I get up close in, like five feet away,
and then I'll just Thunderwave him.

MATT: Okay.

SAM: I do that thing where frat boys do the chest
bump.

MARISHA: Like, "Come at me, bro?"

SAM: Yeah. (grunts)

MARISHA: That's awesome.

TRAVIS: (quietly) We did do that.

MATT: All righty.

SAM: That's just like 2d8.

MATT: Yeah, okay.

LIAM: Roll two d8s.

MATT: Is this the 1st-level Thunderwave?

SAM: I believe it is, yes.

MATT: Okay, so makes a constitution saving throw.
No, he rolled a natural four, so it takes 2d8

thunder damage and he is pushed over the table,
and then would fall over if it wasn't now drifting

above the ground a few inches. Rights itself, but
it did push it away from you. Roll 2d8 damage.

SAM: I did. It's only nine points of damage.

MATT: Nine points of thunder damage against that
helmed creature. All right, that brings us to

their turn. This creature you just slammed into is
going to rush back towards you. This one's going

to turn and attack you, Grog. Two strikes against
you. That is a 15.

TRAVIS: Misses.

MATT: Sorry. 25. Rolled an 18 naturally.

TRAVIS: Hits.

MATT: And that is a 21.

TRAVIS: Both hit.

MATT: Okay, so you take six points of slashing
damage, halved to three, and nine points slashing

damage, halved to five. So eight points of
slashing damage total. Two strikes against you,

Scanlan. That is an 18.

SAM: Oh, yes. That hits.

MATT: Okay, and then a 12.

SAM: Hey, that misses!

MATT: So you take-- that's seven plus 11 points of
slashing damage. (whoosh) As it goes to strike a

second time, you see the second blow coming and
just duck out of the way. That ends their go. Next

up is Keyleth.

MARISHA: So there are two guys alive right now?

MATT: Correct, yes.

MARISHA: One's on Scanlan.

MATT: One's on Grog. The one on Grog is looking a
little rough. The one near Scanlan's doing okay.

MARISHA: How's Cassandra looking next to me?

MATT: She's fine. There's no blood. There's
nothing; the wound is gone entirely. But other

than that, she looks fine.

MARISHA: Looks fine. Okay, I've got my Grasping
Vine still up. I'm going to wrap it around the guy

that's close to Scanlan and just yank him off of
Scanlan.

MATT: Okay. This pulls him over Scanlan's form and
slams him right next to Cassandra.

MARISHA: Okay, and then I will just go, oh! And
pop him with my staff.

MATT: Go for it.

SAM: You can hit things?

MARISHA: Yeah, I got a big old staff, yo! I'm not
great at it, but I can do it. Oh, that's not bad.

16.

MATT: 16 does not hit, unfortunately.

MARISHA: Aw. (ping)

SAM: He's got armor.

MARISHA: It sounded nice, though.

SAM: It did.

MARISHA: Kind of resonated a little.

MATT: Shakes off of it for a second. All right, so
that ends your turn?

MARISHA: Yep.

MATT: All righty. That brings us to Vex.

LAURA: So I'm still down on my knees.

MATT: You're still down on your knees. Your
brother got up and rushed off, he seems okay,

(panting) taking a breath for himself.

LAURA: I look up at Percy who is covered in smoke,
and I grab his hand and I say,

"Percival, how are you?"

MATT: His head slowly turns towards you, the mask
still on. You can see his eyes just barely through

the glistening circular glass slots where he looks
through. The smoke still billowing up from

underneath, the head slowly turns towards you.

TALIESIN: Fine.

LAURA: "Darling, take the mask off," and I--

TALIESIN: I don't have a turn yet.

MATT: No.

LAURA: And I shoot at the guy that's attacking
Grog.

MATT: Okay. He is technically in melee with you,
so you get disadvantage on these strikes unless

you want to move away.

LAURA: Does he get an attack of opportunity,
though, if I scooch back?

MATT: He would, unless-- he didn't take one
against you when you ran back because you

disengaged, so yes, he would.

LAURA: Okay, yeah.

MATT: Okay, so you move back a step. That is a
21.

LAURA: Hits.

MATT: Okay, you take nine points of slashing
damage as you reach back. The creature (whoosh)

arcs with its sword and manages to strike you.

LAURA: Bastard!

MATT: Roll for your attacks.

LAURA: Okay, that is a 26 and a 23.

MATT: Both hit.

LAURA: I didn't Hunter's Mark him, because I'm
brilliant. Yes! 15, 30, 34 points.

MATT: 34 points of damage for both?

LAURA: Yeah, two eights. Plus 14. Plus my
bracers.

MATT: Right. You pull the arrows out and launch
them both simultaneously, two arrows in one notch;

release them both. One slams into the armor. That
one goes underneath the helmet, and as it strikes

you hear this horrible echoing (screeching)
screech that echoes as the armor (thud) falls to

the ground.

TRAVIS: Yeah!

MATT: You can take the rest of your movement, if
you like.

LAURA: I stand up.

MATT: Well, you were standing up to move back.

LAURA: I scooched back, right?

MATT: Unless you wanted to be like--

LAURA: Yeah I wanted to be like--

MATT: Okay, so you pulled back while on the
ground. Release the arrows.

LAURA: Yeah, like up into them.

MATT: There you go. All right. Stand up, brush
yourself off. That ends your go.

LAURA: And Trinket isn't allowed to move any at
all?

MATT: Trinket can, if you want.

LAURA: Can he run after her?

MATT: Yep. Rushes out. Will get there. Rushes
through the fog and looks over and sees her right

there. Okay. That ends your turn, and now it's her
turn. She goes into a full dash and takes off.

TALIESIN: Does Trinket get an attack of
opportunity for that?

MATT: Trinket does get attack of opportunity.

LAURA: Okay.

MARISHA: Come on, Trinket.

TRAVIS: Scratch her up.

LAURA: That's in the corner. I can't really say.

TRAVIS: Oh, you piece of shit

LIAM: (clicks his teeth together)

LAURA: Don't do that. I hate that sound.

(laughter)

MATT: So what did you roll?

LAURA: That's a 12.

LIAM: Good to know.

MATT: 12?

LAURA: Yeah.

MATT: 12 does not hit, unfortunately.

LAURA: No, it doesn't.

MATT: Even with no armor, she's a pretty quick
one. She ducks below and bolts down the hallway

and around the corner.

TRAVIS: Why did we let her have anything?

MATT: All right.

LAURA: You're out.

MATT: So that ends your turn, her turn. Percy,
you're up.

TALIESIN: I'm going to pull off the mask and walk
forward a bit, about there, and take three shots

at the armor.

MATT: Okay, regular shots?

TALIESIN: Sharpshooter shots.

MATT: Okay.

TALIESIN: With one ice, so 14.

MATT: 14 misses. Deflects it with the shield.

TALIESIN: Make sure I'm doing this right. Yeah.
Goddamn it. 17.

MATT: Deflects the second one with the shield.

LAURA: Damn it!

MATT: Heavy armor on this one.

TALIESIN: Dropping sharpshooter for the third
one.

MATT: Okay.

TALIESIN: Not that it helped. 16.

MATT: This one actually manages to duck out of the
way and splinters across the wall behind it.

SAM: They're tough.

TALIESIN: That's my turn.

MATT: All righty. Vax, you're up.

MARISHA: Kill them.

LIAM: I'm just going to walk as far as I can, so
30 feet.

MATT: There.

LIAM: Am I within 40 feet?

MATT: No.

LIAM: Then I just stand.

MATT: Well, you can use the rest of your action to
keep moving, if you'd like.

LIAM: All right, yeah. I'm going to move around
that table and get by Scanlan.

Stand right next to him.

MATT: Okay, that brings us to Grog.

TRAVIS: I would like to move to the suit of armor
please.

MATT: Run towards it, jumping and putting one foot
on the table; using that as momentum to rush in

the air. Go ahead and roll
your attack.

TRAVIS: 24?

MATT: 24 hits.

TRAVIS: And 25.

MATT: That hits.

TRAVIS: 20 with fire damage.

MATT: Nice.

TRAVIS: And 16 with fire damage.

MATT: Gotcha. (grunts) Bringing the hammer down,
the helmet actually gets pushed into the armor and

has to reform itself. Before it has a chance to,
you bring around the hammer and hit the shield

with such force that it pushes it into itself and
slams it against the wall. You take the back of

the hammer and slam it up under the actual helmet,
hitting the creature. You see the flames burn

across the side of its arcane form, causing it to
shimmer for a second. It's looking pretty rough.
MATT: Instead of using the table, though, you use
Grog's knee. You just run, jump onto his knee with

one foot, leap off, blade in the air, go for the
strike.

MARISHA: That's cool!

LAURA: You can do it, Scanlan! (laughs)

SAM: What do I add?

MARISHA: Your attack bonus.

MATT: Attack bonus for your weapon.

SAM: I don't know what that is!

(laughter)

TRAVIS: It is never used.

SAM: Okay. It's a plus seven!

MATT: Yeah, so?

SAM: 15.

(laughter)

MATT: As you rush in the air, you hesitate for a
moment, remembering the Pike thing, and you see

this burning arcane rage in the face of this
entity. At that moment, that hesitation was all it

needed. It takes the shield and almost knocks the
weapon out of your hand. You catch yourself, land

on your feet-- yeah, your fingers sting a little
bit. (laughs) Worth a shot. All right, in

retribution, it's going to strike at you twice.
That's a 15?

SAM: That fails.

MATT: 21.

SAM: That is successful.

MATT: That is seven points of slashing damage.

SAM: Okay.

MATT: All right. Keyleth, you're up.

MARISHA: Ugh. You guys, I thought someone was
going to kill him!

SAM: I tried, but he hurt my wrist really bad!

MARISHA: I know, because I don't want to fucking
burn any spells on this asshole.

TALIESIN: Just hit him with your stick.

MARISHA: Just-- ugh. God.

MATT: Roll for it.

MARISHA: Goddamn it, this hopefully works-- nope.

TALIESIN: No! Wow!

MARISHA: Nope, that didn't work. (tink)

(laughter)

MATT: Heavy armor on these guys. All right. Vex,
you're up.

LAURA: Oh gosh. I guess I shoot him. Can I see him
to shoot him?

MATT: I'll say yeah, you can see him all right.
You can move over there and get a better view a

little bit. Just around this corner, off the
table.

LAURA: And I'm going to Hunter's Mark him.

MATT: Hunter's Mark him?

LAURA: And then I'm going to shoot him.

MATT: Okay, go for it.

LAURA: Oh gosh, I'm just so nervous about picking
the 20. No. 19?

MATT: 19? The arrow hits the armor and shatters
across the side.

LAURA: Shit.

TRAVIS: 19?

LAURA: 24.

MATT: 24 does hit.

LAURA: Okay.

TALIESIN: Yay, you hurt it.

LAURA: Well, maybe.

TRAVIS: That's a high AC. Because of the shield,
right?

MATT: Because of the shield and the armor.

LAURA: 18.

MATT: 18 points of damage? With that, the second
arrow strikes into the center of its chest armor.

It hits some sort of core where its arcane form is
held and the reddish energy blinks out, and the armor

just (impact noise) crumples to the ground.

TRAVIS: That's two of them!

LAURA: What's up, bitches?

TRAVIS: That was tough.

MARISHA: Okay, I immediately turn my attention to
Cassandra. Can I do a medical check on her to make

sure she's okay?

MATT: Go ahead and make a medicine check, yeah.

TRAVIS: Where's Ripley?

SAM: I start running out the hall to Ripley.

TRAVIS: Me, as well.

LAURA: Oh, Trinket is still running after her,
too.

MATT: All right, make a perception check for
Trinket.

LAURA: Oh. (laughs) Okay, is it his smelling?

MATT: Yeah, it's his wisdom bonus.

LAURA: I'm rolling a big dice for Trinket! Oh,
that's good. 26!

MATT: 26, okay.

LAURA: 25.

MATT: 25, okay. Trinket is giving chase best it
can.

LAURA: Except wait. Hold on, I get advantage
because he's got advantage on smell perception.

Oh, it's the same thing.

MATT: Okay, so Trinket is keeping track, but is
having a hard time fully keeping up at this point

unless you're giving full attention towards him at
this point in time, but is keeping a track. He is

rushing as fast as he can down the stairs and is
currently out of your sphere of personal influence

at the moment.

LAURA: I should have Hunter's Marked her. (sighs)

TRAVIS: I grab Scanlan, and we're taking off 
after her out the door.

MARISHA: I rolled a 17 on a medicine check.

MATT: Okay, checking Cassandra, there is no sign
of a wound now. She seems to be not in any

danger.

MARISHA: Okay.

MATT: So, she's on the ground, dazed.

TALIESIN: I'm going to collapse in a corner for a
minute and start using my ascot to clean some of

the gore off my weapon and my clothing and my
mask.

MATT: It is a lot of gore. Okay.

LIAM: Are we out of combat now?

MATT: You guys are currently out of combat.

LIAM: Okay. I'm going to, clutching my bleeding
belly, walk over toward Keyleth and say, that was

a close one.

MARISHA: Yeah. You know, I feel like we've been
here before-- oh, right. We have been here

before.

LIAM: You know I'm in love with you, right? 
And I kiss her.

SAM: Oh!

TALIESIN: (coughs heavily)

SAM: Persistent cough.

MATT: (laughs) And on that note, we're going to go
ahead and take a quick little break!

LAURA: What the fuck?!

MATT: (laughs) All right, quick break!

TALIESIN: I want to see what color you turned. Oh
my god, yeah!

(laughter)

MATT: All right, awesome. Quick break, guys! See
you guys back here in a few minutes.

TRAVIS: Dude, what?!

[break]

ZAC: Couple quick things, guys, or I could just
sit here and talk for a good ten minutes, make you

guys wait before we come back to the bombshell
that was dropped. I'm just going to keep going. We

are 15 away from doing a giveaway, if we hit that
15 we will be doing that giveaway at the very end

of this stream, right whenever Matt says that's
it. We will open up the chat for everyone and do

that giveaway. I also want to say for all the
people wondering what in the world was the No

Survivors thing, Snakes on a Plane number one was
this last Monday, and it's up on the website right

now if you guys are curious and want to check it
out, it's probably the funniest thing we've ever

done on this channel, and I don't say that
lightly. But we're doing Snakes on a Plane 2 this

coming Monday, so thanks, guys.

MATT: Hell yeah.

TALIESIN: Snakes on a Plane 2: More Snakes, More
Plane.

MATT: All right. So. With the chaos that has
ensued through the battle in Anders's study in the

castle of Whitestone, the party looks about,
Cassandra de Rolo recovered, and pulled from

seemingly the brink of death. Vax pulled seemingly
from the brink of death, and Percy managing to

squeak in a second killshot on a member of his
list. As the rest period kicks in, Vax stepped

across the room, holding his wound to his side,
admitting his affection for Keyleth, and reaching

out and kissing her.

TRAVIS: Or attempting to kiss.

LAURA: Roll for contact there?

SAM: Roll for tongue action.

MATT: No.

LIAM: No.

MATT: So, as he breaks from the momentary,
unexpected embrace, you catch yourself off guard.

LIAM: You know, the way you turn into animals and
stuff is really cool.

TALIESIN: I'm going to collect some of Vex's
arrows.

MARISHA: Are you sure you're--

LAURA: I leave the room and look for Trinket.

MARISHA: Just... let me. And I Cure Wounds him.
I'll do a 4th level. Shut up, Sam. I just can't

find my spell. Yeah, I'll do that 4th-level Cure
Wounds.

MATT: Burn all the spell slots. Go ahead and
roll.

LIAM: Folks, we don't know what we're doing. None
of us know what we're doing.

MARISHA: I feel like in the moment I would just do
it really at a-- shut up.

SAM: Sure, overcompensate.

MARISHA: Right. What do I roll? Hang on. 1d8. So
I'm rolling 4d8. I need d8s, goddamn it!

Give me d8s.

TALIESIN: You can't have my d8s.

MARISHA: Why can't I have your d8s?

TALIESIN: Okay, fine, have my d8s.

MARISHA: That's fine, give me one more.

MATT: All right.

MARISHA: Okay, 14, 18. (counting)

MATT: What are you doing?

TALIESIN: I'm collecting three or four of Vex's
arrows from the ground and getting them in my

hand, and I'm staying back from all of this and
letting it happen.

MATT: Okay. Collect the arrows, Vex has stepped
out of the room to pursue after Trinket, Trinket

is currently pursuing Ripley. Grog, you watched
that happen.

TRAVIS: No, Grog and Scanlan ran out of the room
after Ripley.

MATT: Okay, have you guys bolted out? Okay.

TRAVIS: We're yelling out, Ripley!

SAM: Ripley!

TALIESIN: Vax, are you all right?

SAM: We shouldn't yell, Grog.

TRAVIS: Fuck that. I yell anyway.

LIAM: Was there a total?

MARISHA: 33.

LIAM: Yes, I feel better. Thank you.

TALIESIN: That's good. I'm going to now take my
handful of what is now basically a switch, and I'm

going to start whacking him with it really hard on
the chest.

LIAM: Who?

TALIESIN: You! Don't go into rooms by yourself,
god damn it!

MARISHA: I back into a corner upon seeing this, as
Percy ruins the moment.

LIAM: Percival, he had a knife to your sister's
throat. He was going to kill her.

TALIESIN: Thank you, but count to ten. And now I
drop them and go over to my sister.

LIAM: I was afraid she was going to die.

MARISHA: To be fair, you did get her throat slit,
but it's okay.

MATT: As you're saying this, you turn around, you
can see she's sat up and she sees this

conversation and goes, "Percy?"

TALIESIN: Hi.

MATT: "Percy!"

TALIESIN: I'm so sorry.

MATT: And she gets up off the ground and runs up
and just grabs you and embraces you tightly. You

can feel all the muscles tense in her body as she
just holds you with a slight shake to her body.

TALIESIN: I'm so sorry for leaving you.

MATT: "I thought you were dead." She pulls away
for a second and just looks at you, and there's a

coldness to her face. She's happy, but even for
her young age, you can see there's lines at the

corners of her eyes. She's probably been through a
lot. She smiles and looks up at you again and you

can see there's the white shocks in her hair, and
she looks up and touches your hair and goes, "I see

"we've both survived quite a bit."

TALIESIN: I wouldn't trade.

MATT: She laughs to herself, and you see another
tear curl at her eye, and then her face goes cold

for a second and she, not breaking this gaze,
steps back. "You shouldn't be here. They were

"using me to get to you. I'm so sorry."

TALIESIN: Are you all right? Did they do anything?
Are you yourself?

MATT: She reaches up and holds her neck. "I'm
good. I'm good." And she steels herself for a

second, and even more so, you see there's an
intensity to her.

TALIESIN: Perception check?

MATT: To...?

TALIESIN: Insight. I want to make sure she's not
holding anything really important back.

MATT: Okay, go for it.

TALIESIN: Insight? Do I get a bonus for that right
now? It's a wisdom-- yeah!

MATT: No, because you were concentrating.

TALIESIN: This is not a saving throw, though.

MATT: Yeah, and that's wisdom, not a saving
throw.

TALIESIN: 11.

MATT: 11. Okay. Best you can tell, she seems very
honest. She seems forthright. You're used to the

memory of your sister being this bright-eyed,
cheerful, youngest of the bunch, and definitely a

woman who sees the world with fresh eyes. These
eyes are different. They're colder. They're

hardened. In ways, you're impressed; in ways,
you're also immediately sad to see that that

memory of your sister probably is no longer
there.

TALIESIN: We're putting an end to the Briarwoods
tonight. Before the sun sets. This is the end of

them. It's all going to be over, and we're going
to stop whatever it is they're doing

under the city.

MATT: "You say this. We've tried twice."

TALIESIN: I know. This is it.

MATT: "That's what the others thought. You left
me, you know."

TALIESIN: I know, and I'm so sorry.

MATT: "Good. Well, if we're going to do this,
let's get ready."

TALIESIN: You're going to your room.

MATT: "Yes, I am."

TALIESIN: To wait until this is over.

MATT: "No. No, I'm not. I'm going to my room to
get my things. To get my mother's armor."

TALIESIN: (sputters) You're-- I don't think that's
a very good idea.

MATT: "You've been fighting them for what, a few
days? I've been fighting them for nearly three

"years. You have no power over me, brother. And if
our goals are aligned to free this city, let's do

"it together. But I don't have to listen to you."

TALIESIN: God, you're irritating. Fine. Ugh!

MATT: She walks out of the room.

MARISHA: Percy!

TALIESIN: She's so obnoxious. What?

MARISHA: You have a sister.

TALIESIN: Oh god, I do.

MATT: You guys, charging off. Trinket's keeping
trail. She's run down the stairway, he is

beginning to slowly gain on her. She reaches the
front doors, does remember the caltrops. Jumps

over them, grabs the door, opens it, and rushes
out into the daylight. Go ahead and roll a

perception check for Trinket.

MARISHA: Oh, come on, Trinket.

LAURA: He saw it happen! He's got really good
vision.

MARISHA: Come on, Trink.

TALIESIN: Yay!

LAURA: Oh yeah, that's like 24.

MATT: Yeah, Trinket just jumps over. The door's
only slightly open so Trinket has to stop and

wedge his way through.

LAURA: Can he cannonball into her? To try to catch
her?

MATT: It's the same speed as if he dashed. It
would be the same speed.

LAURA: All right.

MATT: However, it takes a moment to get through.
You guys now get down the stairs. As Trinket opens

the door and wedges through, there's a scent out
there, but she's nowhere in visible range. She's

either darted off the path or possibly off the
actual sides, and you can see now the struggle

that's happened. You can now hear in the distance
the sound of yells and fighting and there doesn't

appear to be any one side or the other pushing.

LAURA: I whistle at Trinket to get him to stop.

MATT: Okay, as you get to the landing you whistle
out, and Trinket is just now pushing through the

door and gets out for a bit, looking back and
forth. Looks over the shoulder, and runs back to

you. It appears that Ripley has scattered into
Whitestone somewhere.

SAM: Damn it.

TRAVIS: We stop.

MATT: Okay.

LAURA: We need to find the Briarwoods.

TALIESIN: I'm still upstairs. Are you going to
come meet us again upstairs?

SAM: We'll get Trinket and go back upstairs,
wherever they are.

TALIESIN: Taking a short rest.

MARISHA: We're taking a short rest?

TALIESIN: We're waiting there. They followed her
down; I'm waiting on Cassandra.

TRAVIS: I could stay down in that foyer.

TALIESIN: Come up.

MATT: Are you waiting in the study?

TALIESIN: Yeah, waiting in the study.

MATT: Okay, she goes off to her room. You're there
for a few minutes.

TALIESIN: Does Grog show up?

SAM: We come back and say, that Ripley is very
talented. She got away. Talented Dr. Ripley.

TALIESIN: We have bigger issues than Anna at this
point. Grog, do you have the Bag of Holding?

TRAVIS: I do.

TALIESIN: Can you scoop up what's left of
Professor Anders?

LAURA: Can I loot him first? I mean, just see
what's on him.

TRAVIS: Like, his head bits?

TALIESIN: I don't want any of him sticking
around.

MARISHA: Do we have to put him in the Bag of
Holding, though?

TRAVIS: Why can't we just set him on fire?

MARISHA: Yeah, stuff him in a closet or something
for now.

TALIESIN: Fire will do.

TRAVIS: Is there a fireplace in the room?

TALIESIN: There is. Throw him in. Fine, we'll
throw him in the fire.

LAURA: Wait. Let me see what's on him, first.

MATT: Okay. Make an investigation check.

TALIESIN: We don't want him coming back.

MATT: He's crumpled up against the desk in the
corner, there's all these papers that got pushed

off the side, there were a bunch of random
scrawlings.

LAURA: 24.

MATT: 24? Okay. You search his body. You find 120
gold pieces on him. Not a whole lot. He doesn't

keep his important shit on him, for the most part.
You do find, however, the boots that he's wearing

are very finely crafted, and unlike the rest of
his wear, have a hand-stitching in it that is

exemplary in construction and doesn't match with
the rest of his ensemble. So it seems like

something you'd wear more for function than for
actual style. Pardon.

LAURA: I take them.

MATT: You take them.

TALIESIN: Take his shoes.

MATT: Okay.

LAURA: Does anybody have magic? Can you see what
these are?

SAM: Sure, I can look at them.

LAURA: Look at these, Scanlan.

SAM: I look at them.

MATT: Okay, if you're taking a short rest, you can
take the short rest to inspect the boots, get the

feel for them, they are indeed enchanted. They are
a pair of Boots of Levitation. Once per day, you

can trigger the levitation for up to ten minutes
as per the spell. You can't actually move as part

of it, you just levitate in the air, and you have
to push off to get space.

TRAVIS: So like zero-G.

MATT: Zero-G.

TALIESIN: Like Willy Wonka.

MARISHA: Zero-G boots! Oh, hell yeah.

SAM: Who do they fit?

MATT: They fit anyone who wishes to put them on.
Magical items alter themselves.

MARISHA: Oh, we're playing with that later.

TRAVIS: I'll just hang onto it. I'll just hold
onto it.

MARISHA: Can we all just try them once when we get
back to Greyskull Keep?

MATT: Anything else you want to do while you're
waiting?

SAM: Anything else in the room? Can I sniff around
the room and investigate?

MATT: Yeah, go ahead and make an investigation
check.

TRAVIS: I drag Anders over to the fireplace.

LIAM: I'll look with Scanlan.

SAM: 12.

TRAVIS: He doesn't quite fit, so I have to snap
some joints.

LIAM: 27.

MATT: Okay, good. As you're looking through and
finding papers, papers and ledgers and tough

discussions of old classes, untouched on the side,
you go through one of the bottom drawers, and

there's a lock to it.

LIAM: Well, let's unlock that.

SAM: Vax, do you need my help to unlock it?

LIAM: No, Shorty. Hold on. Are there any traps
in there?

MATT: Make a perception check.

LIAM: Oh, that is 20.

MATT: It does appear to be trapped.

SAM: It does appear to be trapped?

LIAM: So what do I roll to undo that? Dexterity?
Lockpick?

MATT: Thieves' tools, as well. So same check you
did.

SAM: Oh, I can open it for you.

LIAM: That's a natural 20, so that's untrapped.

MATT: As part of that, you notice that this
mechanism is when it opens, if there isn't a

switch underneath it held that's hidden, it will
cause a poison dart to launch out in the direction

of whoever's in front of it. You hold the button,
you find it, you open it up without an issue, and

you find the spring mechanism, snap it, and remove
the little poison-tipped bolt,

and chuck it to the side.

LAURA: No, wait. Give me that. I take it.

MATT: Okay. You have a poison-tipped bolt.

LAURA: Okay.

MATT: For a tiny little hand-crossbow is
essentially what it is.

LIAM: So now I've got to unlock it, right?

MATT: Yeah.

LIAM: Yeah. Hey, 20.

MATT: Natural 20?

LIAM: No, not a natural 20.

MATT: Oh, okay. Easy enough to unlock at this
point, you get it open, you pull it open, there's

a collection of letters.

LIAM: Percival, come here. You're probably the
best person to know what to make of these.

MATT: You glance through and inspect them, and you
take the next ten minutes or so to get the gist of

these letters while Cassandra's away. Many of them
talk about a slew of things that are disconcerting

to you as the information hits you, and you relay
this information to the group. Notes on the

removal of key magical defenses during the
political meeting at Emon. The discussion, as in

making sure that certain individuals and
safeguards that are usually made during political

meetings like that were not present during that
endeavor.

LAURA: Evidence is what that is!

MATT: Notes on best construction methods using the
mined whitestone and repairs for the manse in the

ziggurat.

MARISHA and TRAVIS: The manse?

SAM: As in a mansion?

MATT: A manse is a place or a home; it has many
different meanings. They're warning Anders, and

there are multiple letters at different periods of
time over the past few years that are warning

Anders of an arrival of Seeker Asum's spies.

SAM: He's a good guy.

LAURA: Oh!

SAM: No, he's a bad guy?

MATT: There are letters talking about plotting,
diverting political attention away from Whitestone

to leave it a political enigma during this period
of time. There are letters talking about planting

information within Wildmount that would lead their
investigation team to believe the Briarwoods had

been found dead.

SAM: This is a whole paper trail!

MATT: And occasionally there are mentions in a lot
of these letters that speak of, "The Undying King

"shall return, we are his blood."

MARISHA: Jarl? What?

MATT: The Undying King shall return.

LAURA: Where did she get Jarl from?

MATT: We are his blood.

LAURA: Oh, "we are."

MARISHA: The Undying King...

TALIESIN: Shall return.

TALIESIN and SAM: We are his blood.

MARISHA: Which is what he said.

SAM: And then it says Jarl.

TALIESIN: Jarl. Maybe he was dictating.

MATT: The letters aren't signed.

SAM: Okay? Are they all of the same hand?

MATT: They are all of the same handwriting. In the
cluster, there is one completely unrelated letter

that talks about business ledgers and construction
of the bridge. It appears to be a simple

discussion on the future plans to construct the
bridge.

SAM: Is that in the same hand?

MATT: It is in the same handwriting.

SAM: And is it signed?

MATT: It is signed a Lord Riskel Daxio.

MARISHA: What! Who? Axio?

TRAVIS and SAM: Riskel Daxio.

MATT: Riskel Daxio.

LAURA and MARISHA: We know him!

MATT: Yep.

LAURA: Who is he?

MATT: He's on the Council of Tal'Dorei.

LAURA: (gasps) Oh, motherfucker! He's a spy.

MARISHA: He's our fucking spy!

MATT: He's technically also the one that helped
designate the construction of your keep and

plotted the construction stuff--

LAURA: Oh no.

SAM: He built our keep!

MARISHA: He's the construction guy, he's like our
head builder.

LIAM: He could be spying on us around the keep.

TALIESIN: He could have a secret entrance to our
Keep that he built and didn't tell us.

LAURA: Holy moly.

SAM: As soon as I see that, I go down in a crouch
and I shit-scry on our keep to

see if it's still there.

MARISHA: Oh my god, that's right, you did that!
And I put an elemental there. It's babysitting.

MATT: Yes, you did.

MARISHA: Hopefully still there. 30 days.

MATT: 30 days. Glancing within the kitchen, there
doesn't appear to be much that catches your

attention.

TALIESIN: You shat in the kitchen?

SAM: I put a mound of shit in a jar in the kitchen
and I told them, don't clean it up.

MATT: Like you do.

SAM: You know.

LAURA: Like you do.

SAM: Thursdays.

TRAVIS: I've got Anders in the fireplace, and I
light the Firebrand War Hammer with the magic

word, bacon, and I hit it and set him on fire.

MATT: There was already a fire in the fireplace,
but you just stoke it a little further, and pretty

soon the delicious scent of burning human flesh
fills the room.

LAURA: Bacon?

TRAVIS: Yeah, bacon. Did you not know that's what
the word was?

SAM: So everything's fine at the keep?

MATT: At the time.

SAM: At the time, okay.

MATT: At least, there's nothing on fire, there's
no screams, there's no movement. It just seems

like the cold kitchen is untouched.

SAM: Guys, my shit saw no movement.

(laughter)

LAURA: Good to know, Scanlan.

TALIESIN: You've squeezed all you're going to be
able to get out of that.

TRAVIS: Percy. Can we get into the underground
caverns from here?

TALIESIN: Can I think of a way? I'm assuming I
know a way to where this might be.

MATT: As you have this conversation, a voice from
the doorway rings out. "I can take you." You look

over, and it's Cassandra.

TALIESIN: She's going to take us.

SAM: Is that your sister?

TALIESIN: Apparently.

MATT: She's currently now dressed in armor you've
seen as ornamental before. It was armor that your

mother trained in when she was young, but was
unused for a long time. It seems to be

serviceable; it's been updated and such. She
slides a shortsword into a sheath at her side, and

her hair is pulled back and tied off, and she
looks at the rest of the room. "So are we ready?"

TRAVIS: Let me see your neck.

MATT: She steps up and lifts her chin up towards
you.

SAM: By the way, this is Grog.

LIAM: I'm going to insight check as he does that.

TALIESIN: These are my friends, by the way.

TRAVIS: Do I see anything on her neck?

MATT: No. It seems fine. There's no signs of any
puncture wounds. Rolling?

LIAM: It's a 15.

MATT: Okay. She seems as determined as the rest of
you.

LAURA: All right.

TALIESIN: Lead the way, sister.

MATT: She turns around and she begins walking back
down the hallway.

LAURA: Can we expect any more traps that you're
aware of?

MATT: "That I'm aware of, no, but I'm certain that
there may be. They know you're coming, it seems.

"So be wary. Be careful. I'll take you to the
undercroft."

LIAM: Did we just have a short rest here?

MATT: You did.

LIAM: Going to heal up.

SAM: Hey, Percival. Any chance you can load up one
of Ripley's guns for me?

TALIESIN: I don't know if it will actually-- I
would have to probably train you in

how to use it.

SAM: Really? I've seen you use it. You just pull
your finger on the finger part and the big boom

part goes out.

TALIESIN: It's a little more complicated than
that, actually.

SAM: Well, you have to point it at the thing you
want to be boomed.

MATT: He could use it, he just wouldn't be able to
add his proficiency bonus to the attack rolls.

TALIESIN: I'll load one for you. I'll give him
her boomstick.

MATT: Okay. You take it. You inspect it as you
guys are walking along.

TALIESIN: Just making sure it functions, too.

MATT: It seems pretty functional. It's
well-constructed, it's sleek. Your Pepperbox has a

bit of flair to its design, this is your
background. Hers is just streamlined, simple, much

like the decor of her room when you saw it. She
doesn't mess with anything fancy or unnecessary.

The ammunition she does have are made specific to
size to her pistol. They will not function for the

Pepperbox, unfortunately. They will only work for
the pistol.

TALIESIN: Doing okay. Not doing great, but I'm
doing okay.

MATT: It does act as a pistol for rules-wise,
which is on your sheet here, so yes, you would

have that.

LAURA: Do you want it? Just in case yours
misfires?

TALIESIN: I'll steal it back from him if I need,
but it should be fine.

SAM: I'd like to make an athletics check.
Athletics. See if I can spin it around and put it

in my pocket.

LAURA: Wait, where did you get it? I had it in my
belt.

TALIESIN: No, if you have it.

LAURA: I have it.

SAM: Okay, give it to me.

TALIESIN: Give it to him.

MARISHA: Put your eye out.

MATT: All right. Go ahead and roll dexterity, roll
a d20, add your dexterity modifier.

LIAM: Don't roll a one.

TALIESIN: This is literally how she lost her
hand.

SAM: Wait, what's this? Why does it say plus
four?

LAURA: This music is awful as you're checking.

MARISHA: Yeah, the violins plinking.

SAM: Well, it's zero, but it says a big plus four
next to it for some reason.

MATT: I don't know. Add zero. What did you roll?

SAM: It was 14.

MATT: Okay. You manage to get it in there.
Thankfully it's not loaded, because you feel the

trigger go off. But there wasn't a bullet loaded,
so it's like (click).

TRAVIS: Yeah, we took out the ammunition.

SAM: Okay, now give me a bullet.

TRAVIS: Maybe don't do that.

TALIESIN: I hand him the ammunition. I load four
of them.

SAM: Yeah!

LAURA: Giving him a loaded gun?

SAM: I'm a big boy. Well, I'm a little boy. But
I'm a little big boy.

LIAM: I would like to walk past Scanlan and grab
it out of his hand.

SAM: I will prevent him from doing that!

MATT: Okay.

MARISHA: You guys are fighting over a loaded gun.

MATT: Sleight-of-hand check. Athletics check.

LIAM: You go first.

SAM: Is this a skill check?

MATT: Yeah. Add your athletics to your roll.

SAM: 17!

LIAM: Shut up. 27.

MATT: As you go to be, "No, what are you--" It's
already gone. You don't even know where it went,

you didn't see him take it, you just all of a
sudden see it in his hand as he walks past you.

LIAM: And I walk over to Cassandra. I don't give
her the gun, I just say, you're Cassandra?

MATT: "Yes."

LIAM: I was at the door. He had a knife to your
throat. He wanted you to say something to us. What

did he want you to say?

MATT: "He wanted me to shout for help. He wanted
me to draw you in."

LAURA: Can I insight check her to see if she's
telling the truth?

MATT: Yeah.

LIAM: You've been living here. How did it come
that he had a blade to your throat today? How did

it all unravel? Have you been living here?

LAURA: 24.

MATT: 24. She's telling the truth.

LAURA: Okay. That's good.

MATT: "Well, after the arrows felled me-- I guess
I should start at the beginning." And she's

walking along with you guys as she's leading you
down the stairs and down to the bottom floor. She

doesn't look to you. She's still looking ahead,
very intent.

LAURA: I take that pistol back from you.

MATT: "After the arrows felled me, I recovered.
Father Reynal found me. Brought me from the brink

"at the temple of Pelor outside of town. Things
hadn't fallen quite that far back then. We had

"more people in the city. At the time, the
Briarwood rule was fresh and folks were eager to

"speak out against what they had wrought on this
city, the fall of the de Rolos.

"We still thought they had fallen to plague, but
through some unfortunate political business, they

"had come to power, but we began to question it. I
knew better. I told the truth once I'd recovered.

"We began to build our first rebellion. Two years
we built up the resistance before we made our

"first move. They seemed to know exactly what we
were plotting. Cut us off at every angle.

"Couldn't see who it was who was giving up our
information, but I knew it was close. But before I

"had the opportunity, I was helming a group that
was traveling to utilize the escape route that I

"took you through when they first attacked. It was
just after dusk, and Lord Briarwood was there

"waiting for us in the forest. He slaughtered most
of the men, but he recognized my face from the

"dinner we had the night they took the castle.

"They did not harm me, strangely. They treated me
like a guest against my will, in my own house. I

"seemed to ascertain that by keeping me there,
having a member of the house within their grasp,

"they could use that as leverage. I don't know.

"Sylas, he had his charms, and there were many
that worked beneath them against their own will.

"It did not work on me. My hatred was too strong.
So instead, they tried to provide me with wealth.

"Power, here in Whitestone. I just took to reading
and ignoring it all. I don't know why they kept me

"around, but I wasn't going to question it if it
gave me a chance to possibly undermine them."

She grabs the side of her sword as you guys have
now reached now down the long hallway towards the

back of the castle. You know the direction she's
taking you. It leads to the cellar, to the

undercroft and the de Rolo mausoleum.

"Three years of reading in that library. Father's
library. Strategy. Tactics. Old lines of

"information, as well as the myths and history of
Whitestone. I found allies within the castle. I

"contacted Yennen, and through him, Archibald, who
helped me build the first rebellion.

"Archibald still lives, Percy. He's been
completely necessary for what we've built here."

She looks down at her armor as you guys reach the
edge of the cellar, and she pulls the door open

quietly. There's wooden stairs that lead down into
the cellar. She taps her armor. "This was

"Mother's. It's good to know I'm not the only
tomboy in the bloodline." Brushes the hair out of

her face, and for the first time really looks at
you with a smile since she first saw you.

TALIESIN: (sighs) Can we do one thing before we go
down into the cellar? This is the best day of my

life, and I can't help but be suspicious.

MATT: "I completely understand."

TALIESIN: Is there any way to check if she's being
controlled?

TRAVIS: I was thinking the same thing.

TALIESIN: Can we put your helmet on her?

MATT: The only thing you really have seen work is
the Greater Restoration spell you cast on Seeker

Asum when you guys were with the Council of
Tal'Dorei. That did seem to remove any sort of

charm effects, if that's what you're asking.

LAURA: We don't have that?

MARISHA: I didn't learn it. Not for today. I
thought Pike's magic would hold up.

TRAVIS: I can try and jog her memory.

MATT: "What can I do to make you trust me?"

SAM: Punch her in the face?

TALIESIN: I do trust you. That's the problem.

MATT: She smiles a little. "Whatever you need."

TALIESIN: I've got nothing. (sighs)

MATT: Does anyone have any creative means with
which they would want to check?

TALIESIN: What would happen if we put your helmet
on her?

MARISHA: If she's already controlled--

TALIESIN: This would disrupt it, maybe.

MARISHA: We could try it. It doesn't hurt to put a
hat on.

LAURA: It has to be attuned over a short rest,
though.

MARISHA: It does.

TALIESIN: Does the hat need to be attuned over a
short rest?

MATT: In theory.

LIAM: I want to suggest something to you. We rest
here for a half hour, and I give this to you. This

came from a very strange creature. It will help
you resist any control, if there is any control,

and one of us-- you could even choose-- could
strike you and try to take you out of it, and if

you are not being controlled, then you are being
struck across the face, and I'm sorry for that,

but if you are, there's a possibility we'd pull
you out. I know that would hurt, but it would go a

long way to earn our trust.

MATT: "If that's what it takes." She takes it from
your hand and inspects it for a second. "Shoddy

"craftsmanship." Places it on her head, and it's a
little big at first,

then it conforms to her head.

LIAM: Your choice.

MATT: She sits down a couple of steps deeper into
the cellar. Curls around a corner; ushers you all

over into the shadows.

MARISHA: Can I see, before we leave, are we near
any windows?

MATT: From this location? No. All the windows that
would be here would face out into the north side

of Whitestone, which is forested.

MARISHA: Backyard?

MATT: You guys are on the north side of the castle
now. The city is south from you.

MARISHA: All right.

MATT: So you take a moment and sit. While you guys
are waiting, she takes a moment. She's adjusting

it and feeling it and inspecting her hands.
(sighs) "I don't feel any different.

"While we wait--"

LIAM: What if the little one struck you?

SAM: Struck her?

LAURA: Give it some time.

MATT: She gives a wry grin. "Whatever you
choose."

SAM: I could try to tell if she's evil or not.
Would that help?

LAURA: Yeah.

LIAM: I don't know. I don't think she's evil. She
could be a puppet.

MARISHA: Can I try this? This is a long shot. My--
actually, our fey ancestry, from being half-elves.

We're immune to charm effects. Or we have
resistance.

LIAM: Resistant to it.

MARISHA: Advantage against saves. Since we have
that, can we use our fey ancestry, the three of

us, to tap into her and see if we can detect a
charm?

MATT: Your resistance doesn't make you attuned to
it. Unfortunately, it's just a natural ability

that's inherent. Her being human, there's not a
way to really correlate with that. I mean, you've

read over her a few times, doing insight checks.

TALIESIN: Wait, it was Greater Restoration?

MARISHA and LAURA: Yeah.

TALIESIN: Ah!

SAM: You have that?

TALIESIN: I have a potion. This should solve all
of our problems.

SAM: Or you could save that for when one of us
becomes a vampire.

TALIESIN: No, it will be-- And I'm pulling out a
potion bottle. This is if you are controlled.

This could fix it.

MATT: She puts her hand out. Her leather glove's
pulled over it now. You've never seen her militant

before, and it's a really interesting visual to
you.

TALIESIN: I look at her.

MATT: She drinks the potion. Whole thing down.
(coughs)

TALIESIN: That was actually a minor healing
potion. I was just seeing if you did it

intentionally.

(laughter)

MATT: She gives a wry grin and wipes her mouth. "I
thought I recognized that terrible earthy taste."

She tosses the crystal decanter to you.

LIAM: Clever boy.

MATT: "Huh. You always were the clever one."

TALIESIN: I figured it was worth a shot. Best
we're going to do.

SAM: Am I supposed to punch her in the face now?

LIAM: No.

MATT: "Do you need this thing?"

LIAM: I'll take it back, yeah.

MATT: She hands it back to you.

TALIESIN: All right.

MATT: There's a fascination she has with her
armor. "I've not been able to wear this before. It

"feels good to have something close to Mother."

TALIESIN: It's been a long time. (sighs)

MATT: "Simon repaired it for me when he was
working here. I haven't seen him in a while. I'm

"worried."

TALIESIN: Let's go down and take care of this.
Cass?

MATT: She leads you down through the cellar--

MARISHA: Wait, hang on. Before we enter: it's safe
to assume they know we're coming, correct?

SAM: If they're there.

LAURA: Yeah.

TALIESIN: Yeah.

LIAM: Better safe than sorry.

SAM: Can I ask Cassandra--

MATT: You can ask her anything you'd like.

SAM: Are the Briarwoods going to be down there?
Are they here?

MATT: She goes, "I have no confirmation of it, but
they spend most of their time down here. They're

"preparing for something."

LIAM: Have you ever been down here?

MATT: "I'm not allowed down here, by their orders,
but I've snuck down a few times out of curiosity.

"I've only gotten so far before I had to return,
but I've made it through the undercroft, through

"most of the tunnels, and I've gotten to the
distillery, and that's about as far as I've

"gotten. But I've followed them down here, and they
usually come with a group of guards,

"four or five strong."

LAURA: All right.

TRAVIS: Are there sentries? Can we expect to find
traps, lookouts?

MATT: "It's definitely a possibility, so move
quietly. Be careful."

LAURA: What is Lady Briarwood?

MATT: "What is Lady Briarwood? She's a wicked
beast of a creature, is what she is. I'd use less

"savory words, but my brother's here."

TALIESIN: There's a first time for everything, I
suppose.

MATT: As she leads you guys down the stairs
towards the undercroft, she goes, "She's not like

"her husband. That I know. As far as I can tell,
she's human, but she has a very powerful control

"over life and death. She's a practitioner of the
arcane, definitely, but her focus seems to be

"necromancy on a wide scale. And while Delilah and
Sylas are man and wife, they speak of another."

SAM: They speak of another?

LAURA: The guy that they're trying to bring back.

MATT: "It's as if a third party completes their
union."

SAM: Oh, this is the king that will rise again?

MATT: "They don't say any names. They refer to him
as 'him' or 'The Whispered One.' No reference

"beyond that."

LAURA: (gasps)

SAM: What?

LAURA: (whispering) What if it's the guy in
Percy?

SAM: What if it's what?

TALIESIN: I'm having that thought, as well.

LAURA: Percy's smoke monster.

SAM: Oh shit.

MARISHA: Oh boy.

LIAM: He's playing both sides, possibly,
Percival.

SAM: Oh, another question for Cassandra. The duke,
Negmeyer? Vegmeyer? Venkman?

TALIESIN and MARISHA: Quagmire.

MATT: "Vedmeyer, yes."

SAM: Vedmeyer. Have you seen him around the castle
today, or recently?

MATT: "I've only seen him in the castle maybe
three times since we've been here."

SAM: Because Grog? He's a goliath.

TRAVIS: He's-- wait, what?

SAM: He's a big goliath, so if he's here, you
should just, you know--

TRAVIS: How did you see him?

SAM: Oh, when I was a dinosaur and I burned down a
house and killed a bunch of people...

TALIESIN: That's a series of words that I know
individually, but he strings them together in ways

that don't make any sense.

SAM: I wouldn't say fought, because I beat him
really easily, and then I ran away.

TRAVIS: Oh, you killed him?

SAM: No, I just pushed him off a building, then I
thought that was enough for the day,

so I went home.

MATT: Cassandra looks over her shoulder at this.
"It's a shame you're not as tall as your tales,

"small one."

SAM: Well, thank you. I'll take that as a
compliment.

TALIESIN: No!

SAM: Don't worry.

MARISHA: (laughing) No.

(laughter)

SAM: Before we cross the precipice into this--
what is it, undercroft?

MATT: Undercroft she was referring to, yes.

SAM: Percival, we all have fought with you this
whole time, and you know that we have your back

and that we're with you in this 100 percent. But
I'd like our enemies to know that, as well, so

with your permission, I will cast Seeming on all
of us. And I make the girls look like Cassandra,

and the boys look like Percy. So I give us all the
gray hair.

TALIESIN: You crazy motherfucker!

SAM: And if possible, I'd like to emblazon the
sign of the rebellion on our chests in sort of an

awesome Superman glowing thing.

MATT: With a flicker of Scanlan's arcane mastery,
all of you form into a small battalion of Percys

and Cassandras.

LIAM: Is he a big Percy?

MATT: He would have to be, yeah, because he still
stays similar to his actual size, so if Percy was

a little thicker and a little taller--

MARISHA: Percy's been hitting the 'roids.

MATT: Yep.

LAURA: What is Trinket?

SAM: A bear with two streaks of white hair.

(all laugh)

LAURA: And he's wearing little circle glasses.

SAM: Yeah, with the little glasses. We are all de
Rolos today.

MARISHA: He's a Hello Trinket!

TALIESIN: Hello Trinket?

MARISHA: Hello Trinket.

MATT: Cassandra looks around very confused for a
second. "Curious, yes."

MARISHA: But abrasive. Right? You're put off by
it, so it works. It's working.

SAM: Possibly confused.

TALIESIN: Abrasiveness is his most powerful
weapon.

MATT: "So I'm beginning to see. Well, then." She
pulls her shortsword out. "Shall we?"

LAURA: Are we going in to fight now?

TRAVIS: We're going into the cavern.

LAURA: I'm stealthing.

MATT: "As are we all." Everyone roll stealth
checks.

LAURA: Should I cast Pass Without a Trace? Yeah,
I'm going to use Pass Without a Trace, because I

don't have a lot of 2nd-level spells.

MATT: Okay.

TALIESIN: Oh yeah. Please.

MATT: Plus ten.

LAURA: Yeah, plus ten to your stealth.

SAM: Oh, really?

LAURA: Yeah.

TALIESIN: Thank god.

TRAVIS: Boom!

LAURA: Natural 20!

LIAM: You're welcome.

TRAVIS: 26. Natural 20.

LIAM: 30. Natural 20.

LAURA: Oh, natural 20.

MATT: 30, plus whatever your bonus is.

LIAM: That's with the bonus.

MATT: I thought you rolled a natural 20?

LAURA: That's 29, that's 39.

MATT: Oh, you?

LAURA: 39 for me.

MATT: 39? Your sister just out-stealthed you.

LIAM: I gave her my fucking cloak, Matt.

SAM: Do we all get plus ten?

TALIESIN: Yeah.

SAM: Oh, then 29.

MARISHA: 28.

TALIESIN: 21.

MATT: You all (whoosh) vanish.

MARISHA: Before we go in, I go, Vax?

LAURA: How do you know it's him?

MATT: Solid point.

MARISHA: Vax?

SAM: Yes, it's me.

TALIESIN: Yes, Keyleth?

MARISHA: Vax?

(laughter)

SAM: Yes, it's me, Vax. What do you need? It's
me.

LIAM: Kiki, I'm over here.

MARISHA: Goddamn it, Scanlan!

LAURA: This is really creepy because it's brother
and sister talking to each other right now. It

looks like Percival and Cassandra.

MATT: She's very uncomfortable right now, by the
way.

TALIESIN: Is there anybody who is not made
uncomfortable by this?

MARISHA: This was supposed to be a passing
comment, and it's turned into a thing. (laughs)

Be careful.

TALIESIN: Of course, Keyleth.

LAURA: He will be.

MARISHA: God damn it! I can't do this anymore.

TALIESIN: Carry on.

MARISHA: Just go. Let's go. Can we go?

SAM: Sister Vex? Do you mind giving me that gun
again?

MARISHA: Shut up, Scanlan.

TALIESIN: It will be no problem at all.

LAURA: No, you can't have it.

SAM: Why, because I'm three feet tall?

LAURA: Because I want it.

LIAM: (imitating Grog) Is this the body-switching
episode?

TALIESIN: Right.

SAM: Let's go.

TALIESIN: Let's go.

MATT: Continuing down, a long set of
whitestone-constructed stairs descend for about 45

feet before they level off into the de Rolo
mausoleum. A long hallway continues forward that

contains two ten-by-ten stone structures that
contain the entombed bodies of previous

generations of de Rolos, with six passages-- three
on each side-- that split off of this main hallway

that contain their own stone-encapsulated corpses.
This is a place of silent prayer and showing

appreciation for the previous families. Not all of
them are full, and there were extensions planned

as the family grew, but the first thing you notice
is all of the tomb doors are open.

Is anyone holding a torch light source, going
through this?

LAURA: He's got his flaming war hammer.

MARISHA: Yeah, and I'll light up my hands.

TALIESIN: I think I still have a torch, actually.

MATT: Have you been carrying it with you
throughout this?

TALIESIN: Yeah.

MATT: Okay.

LIAM: Dagger.

MATT: Okay, so you have enough light sources to
keep a general idea of what's going on, and I know

a lot of you guys have darkvision, too, so you have a
pretty decent range. What's the marching order

here, guys? Just so I know, continuing down this
path.

SAM: We'll go Percy, Cassandra, Cassandra, Percy,
Percy, Percy, Percy, Cassandra.

MARISHA: Boy girl, boy girl, boy girl.

LAURA: I'm going to perception ahead, so I'll be
towards the front.

MATT: Towards the front?

LIAM: How about Grog in second place? You big
sponge.

MATT: Is Trinket staying with you or staying in
back?

LAURA: He's going to stay further back.

MARISHA: Put me in a happy middle.

MATT: Grog's second. Keyleth is, you said, in the
middle?

SAM: She's lucky Pierre.

MATT: All right, the rest of you guys?

LAURA: Trinket's staying close to Scanlan.

MATT: Okay. Scanlan, you staying towards the
back?

SAM: I guess so.

MATT: All right. Percy and Vax?

LIAM: I'll be behind Grog, as well.

TALIESIN: So I'll be in the back with my sister.

MATT: All right, and this is Cassandra.

LAURA: Oh no. She's so drunk.

MATT: Okay, so it's like a flying V formation you
guys are pushing in here.

TALIESIN: Go home, de Rolo, you're drunk.

MATT: All right, so. You progress through the
undercroft as quietly as possible. You notice as

you get past the first section, you look to your
right and left and the inside of these small like

cubby offshoots that contain these separate ten by
ten stone tombs. The walls have shelves burrowed

into it, in which there are urns and small gems
and offerings-- things that were buried alongside

the family members as part of a remembrance.

LIAM and LAURA: (make snatching noises)

MATT: Yeah, no. Don't go Skyrim on me.

TALIESIN: Yeah. Not fun.

MATT: Once again, you see the doors are open, and
from what you can tell, the stone lids on the

tombs are pulled off and to the side. Across the
way, as you move towards the center of the room to

the second set of openings, you can see the far
wall which, the room ends in the far side, but

there is about a 15, 20-foot wide and about a ten
to 15-foot tall hole burrowed into the far wall.

And the closer you get, you see large piles of
dirt that fill one side of the room were put off

to the side as if pieces of this dig were
discarded and there is a trail of dirt across the

ground that appears to have not been very well
cleaned to show that dirt was being moved in and

out of this area. You also see, as you push
two-thirds into the room, broken pieces of

whitestone that had been carved into what looks
like parts of walls or pillars. Support things

that failed in their construction and just broke
and were tossed and discarded to the side. Make a

perception check.

MARISHA: Oh!

TALIESIN: Oh! Natural 20.

SAM: Jesus.

TRAVIS: What the flipping fuck, man.

TALIESIN: I had a one today.

MATT: A one.

TRAVIS: And four 20s.

TALIESIN: I had a one.

MATT: One of you Critters out there has to get
Taliesin a really, really pretty new d20 that he

has to use going forward.

TALIESIN: That's shapeways.com.

MATT: Not that one!

(laughter)

MATT: All right. So what did you get?

MARISHA: 29.

SAM: 12.

LIAM: 26.

LAURA: I don't remember. It wasn't very good.

MATT: Okay.

TRAVIS: 13.

MATT: Okay. Those of you with about 25 or above,
you glance and you find two of these slivers of

this material you don't recognize and part of this
broken stone. It's like a dark green glass. About

a half an inch to an inch thick in slivers. You
only find a small scattering few, and it has a

grainy texture to it, and you take a look at it,
and it's transparent. You can see shapes through

it, but it's opaque enough to the point where it
distorts a little bit of the visual and color

behind it.

MARISHA: Can I do a nature check on this? Is this
similar to the broken glass that I collected

before?

MATT: Which broken glass you collected before?

MARISHA: I don't know. I just have broken glass
shards.

TRAVIS: I feel like that was the red stones or
something from before.

MARISHA: I feel like there was some sort of--

TALIESIN: There was that sea of glass.

MARISHA: Yeah, we were in some cavern.

MATT: Oh, the sea of bone and glass? Okay. Yeah,
it is not similar to that, no. However, those who

are trained in arcana, you can go ahead and make
an arcana roll.

LAURA: Trained in arcana?

MATT: Trained in arcana.

LAURA: How do you know if you're trained in
arcana?

TRAVIS: Negative two.

MATT: You would have filled in, if you have a
proficiency.

SAM: The dot?

TALIESIN: The dot.

LAURA: Oh.

SAM: Oh. 11.

MATT: You have really no idea what this glass is.

LIAM: I grab it back.

MATT: Okay.

SAM: That was just me? I'm the only arcana-trained
person here?

LAURA: That's it?

SAM: Wow. Sorry, guys. Sorry.

MARISHA: Can I try a nature check on it?

MATT: Sure.

MARISHA: He's like, "It's not going to tell you
shit, but sure." 15?

MATT: It's glass. Most glass you understand is
designed by usually sand or other materials that

at a high temperature or some sort of process is
melted and fused.

MARISHA: So it's manufactured.

MATT: It appears to be, or naturally occurred, and
the structure of it has this bumpy, wavy-- it's

not like smooth glass.

MARISHA: Like when lightning hits sand?

MATT: Kind of. But you're not sure what it
actually is.

LAURA: I wonder if this was holding that acid.

TALIESIN: I wonder if something very, very hot...

MARISHA: I'm wondering if it's a symptom of
something.

SAM: When they burn the whitestone with the acid
or something?

LAURA: Do I see any recent tracks around here?
Does it look like people came down here?

MATT: Make a survival check with advantage because
you're a crazy ranger tracker.

LAURA: 13.

MATT: You see tracks here and there, some fresher
than others. Yeah.

LIAM: How many of us found this?

MATT: Well, two of you saw it.

LIAM: I've got one.

MATT: Yeah, you've got one piece.

LIAM: And Percy's got the other?

MATT: Second piece, yeah.

SAM: You want to burn one?

LIAM: I walk away from the group all the way to
the back, and I take it--

MATT: To where you came from?

LIAM: Yeah, towards where we came from. What's
behind us? Is it just tunnel back that way?

MATT: You mean on that path you're going?

LIAM: Yeah, I push through the back of the group
to the back.

MATT: Okay.

LIAM: What's behind us?

MATT: Where you just came from is the stairs that
lead up to the castle.

LIAM: I was going to throw it, but...

TRAVIS: I see Vex looking around. Can I look for
tracks as well? I'm proficient in survival, and I

never use it.

MATT: Sure.

TRAVIS: Natural 20! I swear to god.

MATT: While you sit there inspecting the dirt--

LAURA: It looks like there's some tracks here, but
I don't know what it's saying.

MATT: Grog, you immediately see a cluster of
recent footprints, probably a day old at most,

that lead in towards the tunnel. Looks like the
prints are of seven individuals. Feet are fairly

wide, masculine and heavy in step. One gait
appears to be smaller, thinner, and more

feminine.

TRAVIS: How many tombs are open around us?

MATT: Eight total in this room.

TRAVIS: Should we check the tombs?

LAURA: They're already open and empty.

SAM: They're open and empty.

MATT: You all make a perception check.

MARISHA: All of us?

SAM: Ten.

MARISHA: 28.

TALIESIN: 25.

LIAM: 20.

LAURA: 11.

TRAVIS: 18.

MATT: Okay, 20 and above that'd be just you two?

LIAM: 20.

MATT: Oh, yeah, three. All right, so you three,
you notice the temperature drop ever so slightly

in the room and in the darkened shadow. you look
around and you see what appears to be some sort of

ethereal mass drifting away.

TALIESIN: Damn it!

MARISHA: God damn it! Here we go again.

LIAM: We've got company.

MATT: There's one round that you three get to act.
The rest of you have a surprise round right now.

MARISHA: What kind of mist?

SAM: Bad deadly ghost mist.

MARISHA: What kind of mist?

SAM: A miasma.

MATT: Grog and Vex are out here checking this. You
guys are back here. Keyleth is here. Vax, you're

back here. Trinket's up with you, and Scanlan
you're--

SAM: I was in the back.

MATT: So you're over here with these guys. You see
one drifts out from this side, another drifts out

from this side, and another drifts in from this
side.

MARISHA: Undead ghoulie guys?

LIAM: Ghosts. Wraiths.

MARISHA: Wraiths?

MATT: There is a cold chill that runs down the
spine of Keyleth and Vax, as they've encountered

enemies similar to this in the past.

MARISHA: It's that fucking shit that turned us.

MATT: All right, let's roll some initiatives.

TRAVIS: Just those three, right?

MATT: Just those three.

TALIESIN: I feel like an asshole.

MARISHA: Shut the fuck up!

TALIESIN: I feel like an asshole.

MARISHA: Get out!

TALIESIN: I'm changing dice. This is bullshit.

MATT: Yeah, I'm banning that d20 for the rest of
the game.

TALIESIN: I'm changing dice.

MARISHA: It makes no sense. Yes! It's a hollow
die.

TALIESIN: It's a hollow die. There's nothing to be
weighted on it. It's a wiffle die.

MARISHA: And I rolled a one!

MATT: So it's just you. Okay, so! Initiatives.

TALIESIN: 28.

MATT: (giggles) Okay.

MARISHA: 14.

MATT: Okay.

LIAM: 15.

TALIESIN: Thank you for that.

MARISHA: (laughing) I can't believe I did that.
Rolled a one on it.

MATT: All right. Percy, you're up first. You
glance around, and you can see the two entities

going (hiss) towards you, towards Keyleth, and you
glance over your shoulder and see one drifting out

of the distance towards Vax.

TALIESIN: I yell, "Look out!" And I take several
steps toward Vax.

MATT: To there?

TALIESIN: Actually, on the other side of the
pillar so I can actually see the one that's

getting towards him.

MATT: There?

TALIESIN: Yeah.

MATT: You won't be able to see this one, just
those. This one actually will block your view to

that one. These are about ten feet tall. These are
the little sections here, so right now, you would

be able to see these two here and barely see this
one. It would have three-quarters cover. Which you

ignore, with Sharpshooter.

TALIESIN: I know. I want to back up into that
corner, though, just to get away from them.

MATT: Over here?

TALIESIN: Yeah.

MATT: Okay, so you can see one of them right now.

TALIESIN: I'll take-- fuck. Yep, screw it. I'll
take shots with the Pepperbox.

MATT: Okay.

TALIESIN: I'll take my first shot.

MATT: Go for it.

TALIESIN: That can't be right. Just checking. 20.
Natural 20.

MATT: Okay.

LAURA: With a different dice?

TALIESIN: With a different die. Of course, with a
different die.

MARISHA: Shut the fuck up!

TRAVIS: Who are you?

TALIESIN: I'm the devil. I am the devil, and I
have come to do the devil's work.

MATT: So all of you who are going to conventions
to meet Taliesin in the future, make sure you get

a nice long hold of his hand so you can roll
better, too.

TRAVIS: Yeah, would you touch my dice?

TALIESIN: I will lick your die, because that is
how I bless them.

MATT: All right, so that's your first attack.
Second attack?

TALIESIN: First attack.

MATT: Both at the same guy?

TALIESIN: Yeah, all against the same guy.

MATT: Okay. Go for it.

TALIESIN: First attack is 22 points of damage.

MATT: Okay, is this with the element, or not?

TALIESIN: No, no element.

MATT: Okay. You fire. Just passes through it with
no effect.

MARISHA: Yeah, fucking misty dudes.

TRAVIS: What?

MARISHA: Damn misty dudes. I'm mocking them.

TALIESIN: I spin.

MATT: Okay.

TALIESIN: Shoot with fire.

MATT: Okay.

TALIESIN: What the fuck?!

MARISHA: Get out!

MATT: Take a picture. Take a picture right now.

TALIESIN: Taking a picture.

MARISHA: Get out! You're the anti-Wheaton.

SAM: He's had, like, eight tonight.

MARISHA: How many is that?

TALIESIN: I don't know!

MARISHA: CritRoleStats, how many is that? Tell us!
I know you've been counting.

LAURA: Ridiculous.

SAM: Go to Vegas!

TALIESIN: I'll put it on Instagram later.

MARISHA: Go to Vegas!

LAURA: Yeah.

TALIESIN: I go to Vegas. I don't gamble!

LAURA: We need to go.

MATT: You need to go find the D&D casino.

SAM: D&D casino?

MATT: D&D casino. Make it happen, guys. I know one
of you can.

TALIESIN: All right.

MATT: So which one is this?

TALIESIN: This is fire elemental.

MATT: Okay.

TALIESIN: That's 14 points of damage, plus three
damage of fire.

MATT: That's including crit damage?

TALIESIN: Including the crit damage. I rolled
really poorly on my damage.

MATT: Okay, so this one, the bullet does (impact
noise) hit its form with a burst of flame, the

bullet converted to magical due to the nature of
the chamber. You can see its form (raspy cry). It

disperses for a second and then re-forms,
continuing its movement.

TALIESIN: We need magic! I'm taking my last
shot.

MATT: Okay.

MARISHA: That was seven, by the way. Seven 20s
this game.

MATT: That's stupid.

TALIESIN: Okay, see? That's better. 15.

MATT: 15 does hit.

TALIESIN: All right. They're easy to hit, at
least. That's such a shitty roll. 12 points of ice

damage.

MATT: Okay. The ice shot (gunshot) tears through
it, doing additional damage. You see part of its

form crystallize from the little bit of ectoplasm
that's floating in the air, but it's not enough to

actually disperse its form. It continues pushing
forward. You would have to reload to use those

again.

TALIESIN: Yeah, I'm out.

MATT: Okay, that ends your turn. It's now their
go. This one drifts forward to Keyleth. This one

drifts forward to Grog.

MARISHA: That's with our surprise round? You said
we have a surprise round.

MATT: No, you guys were aware. Everyone else is
surprised.

MARISHA: Oh, we're the only three that aren't
surprised. Oh, that sucks.

MATT: So. Unless you do anything against
surprise?

TRAVIS: Not unless I'm raging.

MATT: That's true. All right. Keyleth, I need you
to make a constitution saving throw. Sorry, no, a

charisma saving throw.

MARISHA: A charisma saving throw? That's not
great. And no saving throw bonuses, okay, so

that's ten?

LIAM: (quietly) Oh, she's gone.

MARISHA: We've been here before.

MATT: Did you roll already?

MARISHA: I did.

MATT: What did you get?

MARISHA: Ten.

MATT: Ten. Okay. The ghost reaches out and
embraces Keyleth. It disappears into her form and

she shivers for a second, and it is no longer
visible.

LAURA: Oh, he's taken over her body?

MATT: Keyleth's eyes all of a sudden flare up with
a ghostly blue glow, and she turns around, looking

at the group with a hunger you haven't seen in her
eyes. For those who see it, as well-- I should

have made this happen before-- I need you guys to
immediately after seeing these ghosts make a

wisdom saving throw.

TALIESIN: What for?

SAM: Everyone?

MATT: No, just the ones that see it.

LAURA: We're all immune to fear because of the
feast.

MATT: That's right, so never mind. That doesn't
matter.

SAM: (laughs) Yeah!

MATT: Good reminding. So I was right, then. I
didn't forget anything! All right,

charisma saving throw?

LIAM: Charisma saving throw?

MATT: Correct.

LIAM: Okay.

MARISHA: This isn't a charm thing?

MATT: And Grog, charisma saving throw.

LAURA: Is this charm?

MATT: Nope. This is not a charm.

LIAM: Okay, so a 12 for me. Am I caught, as well?

SAM: 12?

MATT: 12?

LIAM: Yeah.

MATT: Okay.

TALIESIN: God damn it.

SAM: That was your last Luck, too.

LIAM: No, that's two, isn't it?

MARISHA: You did two.

LAURA: We're going to die!

TRAVIS: Grog is batting for the other team.

MATT: What did you roll?

TRAVIS: Four.

LAURA: (muffled) We don't even have a cleric with
us!

SAM: Wait, this is against charisma?

LAURA and MARISHA: Yeah.

SAM: Jesus.

MATT: And with that, three of your teammates turn
around, their eyes intensely glowing with some

sort of a weird ghostly glow.

MARISHA: Three v three, man. Battle royale. Let's
do this.

TALIESIN: Oh god.

SAM: Wait, we have to fight them?

MARISHA: He's going to call it at eight. He's
going to call it.

MATT: Everyone else roll initiative.

SAM: We have to fight them. How is that going to
happen?

TALIESIN: This is going to go so poorly.

TRAVIS: Not us. Not the possessed ones, right?

MATT: No, you guys are already on the initiative.
Oh, no. Grog, you still do.

TRAVIS: I still roll initiative?

MATT: Yeah, for yourself.

LAURA: What?

TRAVIS: I'm possessed, though.

TALIESIN: Roll your initiative.

LIAM: What just happened?

LAURA: You have to roll initiative to see when you
attack all of us.

MATT: Yeah.

TRAVIS: Well, then it's good it was a one.

MATT: (laughs) Okay.

MARISHA: Do we roll initiative, too? We're
re-rolling initiative, the three of us?

MATT: Everyone who hasn't rolled yet rolls now.

MARISHA: Oh.

SAM: 15.

MATT: 15. Okay.

TRAVIS: Unless I have to roll with advantage.

SAM: Do you have to roll with advantage?

MATT: Technically, you would, yeah.

TRAVIS: Two.

MATT: All right, and what did you get?

LAURA: 13.

MATT: 13. All right. Percy, you're up first.

MARISHA: Help us!

TALIESIN: I don't know what to do.

LAURA: We don't have a cleric!

SAM: You have-- ugh.

MARISHA: I think you guys--

SAM: No, it's up to us to figure out, right?

LAURA: He cast Turn Undead. We don't have that.

MARISHA: Was that when Kashaw was here?

LAURA: Yeah.

MARISHA: That was Kashaw. Yeah, he cast Turn
Undead.

TRAVIS: Awesome. He's not here right now. What are
you going to do?

TALIESIN: Okay! What are we going to do?

MATT: What are you going to do?

TALIESIN: (sighs) All right, who's the most
dangerous?

TRAVIS: Does Cassandra have any--

TALIESIN: That's my first action. I'm going to use
my bonus action to turn to my sister and go, what

the hell do we do?

MATT: She looks at you, a little bit frustrated.

MARISHA: Please tell me she trained in cleric.
Please tell me she multiclassed.

MATT: She looks about, annoyed, and goes, "I'm
sorry. I'm not a holy woman. I have no symbols. I

"have no power. I have nothing. Let's see what we
can do."

TALIESIN: All right. I'm--

MARISHA: You guys have that holy water, right?

TALIESIN: I'm backing up. I'm going to do my best
to back up into the tomb right here.

MATT: Right there?

TALIESIN: Keep going to my right until the
drop-off behind me, and I'm going to back up into

the tomb.

MATT: Okay. Into there?

TALIESIN: No, up. Towards you; the other side.

MATT: There we go.

TALIESIN: There we go. I'm putting my back against
the wall.

MATT: Okay, so you're up against the stone?

TALIESIN: I mean that column.

MARISHA: Take the damn laser pointer.

TALIESIN: Yeah, there.

MATT: There you go.

TALIESIN: Yeah!

MATT: All right.

TALIESIN: I'm unloading two shots. I'm reloading
and unloading two magical shots at Vax.

MATT: Okay.

TALIESIN: I'm going to burn some fucking points.
What am I going to do?

SAM: We're fucked!

TRAVIS: Do your worst.

TALIESIN: First shot-- fuck it, I'm using the old
die. I've already rolled two 20s on that one.

First shot, I'm shooting to get Vax to drop his
knives.

MATT: Okay.

TALIESIN: Burning a grit point to drop his knife.

MARISHA: Good idea!

MATT: He has two, so you only knock--

TALIESIN: One of them out of his hand. The one
that doesn't auto-return.

LIAM: They all do.

TALIESIN: They all do?

LIAM: Yeah.

MATT: That crazy belt, man.

TALIESIN: Shooting him in the face. Fuck it. And
my gun jams. You did that!

MARISHA: I touched it. I'm sorry!

MATT: (laughs) You turn around and holding your
gun out at Vax, even with this ghostly form, it's

so hard to do so, and you close your eyes for a
second and you pull the trigger, and in a weird

way you're both immediately distraught and at the
same time relieved that the gun jammed.

(mechanical noise)

TALIESIN: (frustrated noise)

MATT: So that's your turn.

TALIESIN: Yep.

MATT: All right. Vax, you're up first. The ghost
drives you to turn up to him as he's trying to fix

the gun. Daggers out. Go ahead and make your two
attacks against him. No sneak attack damage.

LIAM: The first was a 13. The second was a 22.

MATT: Pretty sure the 22 hits.

TALIESIN: 22 hits.

MATT: Okay. Go ahead and roll damage against
Percy.

LIAM: Eight.

MATT: All right, so you take eight points of
piercing damage. You feel the blade (pained cry)

pierce into the side. It doesn't get too far in,
but you haven't been on the receiving end of his

daggers before, and it's not fun seeing what they
do to others. All right, at the end of your turn,

I want you to make a religion check.

SAM: Check?

TALIESIN: Oh yeah!

MARISHA: Come on.

TALIESIN: Magic fingers.

LAURA: Magic glove.

MARISHA: Do you want Taliesin to lick it?

LIAM: 18.

MATT: 18? That gentle glow left behind, that
slight sliver of Pike's essence that went into

your symbol of Sarenrae, flares for a second. It
flares again, and for a moment, in your head, in

which darkness has taken your vision, you feel
your body moving on its own, but you have no

control. You hear Pike's voice whisper in your ear
from a distance. It says, "Vax? It's okay." At

which point, suddenly you feel the coldness sucked
out from you. The symbol flares for a second, and

the ghost is thrust out of your form.

MARISHA: (excited shout)

TALIESIN: Yeah!

MATT: That is your turn, however. All right.
Scanlan, you're up.

SAM: I read my Scroll of Spirit Guardians. I call
them forth to protect us in this moment.

TALIESIN: Treguna mekoides--

SAM: Hakuna matata.

TALIESIN: Trecorum satis dee.

SAM: I don't know how this works.

(laughter)

MATT: That's okay.

SAM: (silly voice) They attack bad things around
me, and they don't like bad things, so I thought

maybe that would be good.

(laughter)

SAM: Spirit Guardians. The thing I bought from
Gilmore. Right? Didn't I buy the Scroll of Spirit

Guardians?

LAURA: Yeah, you did.

SAM: They attack anything evil within 15 feet of
me.

MATT: Indeed.

SAM: Necrotic damage.

MATT: There we go: Spirit Guardians. So you call
forth spirits to protect you for the duration, for

up to ten minutes. Your alignment is...?

SAM: Good?

MATT: Good, yeah.

SAM: Good-ish. Sort of devious good.

MATT: Okay, so here's what you do. You actually
use this to create these guardians-- this spell

hasn't been used, either. To a distance of 15
feet. You have to choose things within 15 feet of

you, so you have these two right here.

SAM: They're both within 15 feet of me, aren't
they?

MATT: So, these guys. Their speed is halved.

SAM: When they take their turn, they get 3d8
damage.

MATT: Yeah.

SAM: It's a very confusing spell.

MATT: Yeah, when they move within 15 feet of you,
their speed is halved, and at the start or when

they enter the area, they make a wisdom saving
throw or take radiant damage.

SAM: Is that now or when they move?

MATT: That will be at the end of their turn.

TALIESIN: Yay, radiant damage. That's awesome.

SAM: I know.

TALIESIN: You made a good call.

TRAVIS: Nice, dude.

MATT: All right. Does that end your turn?

SAM: Do I get a bonus action?

MATT: You get a bonus action, yes.

SAM: Okay. Who's not undead right now? You? I've
already inspired you once. Sure, I'll inspire you

again. I've got nothing. This time, I'll just go,
(harmonica noises).

LAURA: I feel really inspired.

MATT: Take the lamest d10 you've ever accepted,
because harmonica's not your favorite instrument.

All righty. Great. That brings us to Keyleth's
turn.

TALIESIN: (squeaking noise)

MARISHA: Did you just squeak?

TALIESIN: Maybe. You don't know. Shut up!

MATT: So it turns towards Scanlan, having cast
that, and you make a staff attack against him.

MARISHA: (grunts)

SAM: I do a little doo-wop. (vocalizes) And that's
my Cutting Words to try to distract her from her

attack.

MATT: Okay. Go for it.

MARISHA: I rolled a 19.

SAM: Do I roll now?

MATT: Yeah, you roll a d10 and subtract that from
her attack.

MARISHA: I rolled a 19.

SAM: Two.

MATT: So it's a 17.

MARISHA: What's your AC?

SAM: I have a 17 armor class.

MATT: Roll damage.

SAM: Oh, wait! No, that's a ten. That's right.

MARISHA: It's not a lot of damage, I promise. Oh,
see? Even better. Four damage.

SAM: Oh. I shouldn't have even wasted it.

TALIESIN: It's "ow."

LAURA: It's just your little staff?

SAM: You're adorable.

MARISHA: I'm still doing my granny routine.

MATT: Okay, now it has to make a wisdom saving
throw, which it succeeds. It still takes half as

much damage, so roll 3d8.

SAM: Who, me?

MATT: Yes.

SAM: Oh. Yes. Of course I will. I will do that
right now with these d8s that I have. 12.

MATT: Okay. All righty. So this burst of radiant
energy burns around her. You take 12 points of

radiant damage.

MARISHA: 12 points?

MATT: Yep. Vex, you're up.

LAURA: All right.

MATT: You see Grog turn to you with this wicked
grin on his face, eyes glowing a pale whitish-blue

as he brings the hammer up in the air.

LAURA: Oh god! Am I close by him?

MATT: You are. You're right next to him.

LAURA: I'm right next to him?

MATT: You're right there.

LAURA: Oh no! I back away from him. He's going to
get an attack on me.

MATT: Yep.

LAURA: But I really needed to put some distance
there.

MATT: Make an attack of opportunity.

LAURA: Wait! Okay, that's good.

TRAVIS: 13.

LAURA: You don't hit me!

MATT: Whiff. (impact noise) The hammer hits the
side of the stonework, cracking it a little.

TALIESIN: Oh, that's my mausoleum.

MATT: What are you doing, Vex?

LAURA: I'm going to have Trinket-- is he lined up
with anybody?

MATT: Just Keyleth right now.

LAURA: He can't cannonball through to Grog and
Keyleth?

MATT: He can, but he'll hit Scanlan, as well.

LAURA: Can you dodge, Scanlan?

SAM: We'll see. Let's do this. I always loved that
bear.

LAURA: Right! You deserve it. He's doing it.

MATT: We'll say Trinket backs up a little bit to
get enough room on it. Keyleth, swing an attack.

MARISHA: Oh, to Trinket?

MATT: Yeah. Trinket has to get enough distance to
actually build up momentum.

MARISHA: Oh, I think that hits. 20 total?

MATT: 20 total is exactly the AC. Roll damage for
Trinket.

MARISHA: It's okay. It's not a lot. Nine?

MATT: Trinket takes nine points of bludgeoning
damage from the staff.

LAURA: Halved?

MATT: Right, yeah, because it's bludgeoning, so
five points. Trinket then rolls forward, (thudding

noises). Roll attacks on Grog, Scanlan, and
Keyleth.

MARISHA: Trinket bowling.

LAURA: Eight plus 16 is 24.

MATT: For who? Keyleth, Scanlan, and Grog.

LAURA: Okay, so Keyleth is 24.

MARISHA: Hits.

LAURA: Scanlan is 18.

SAM: Hits.

LAURA: And Grog is 18.

TRAVIS: Misses.

LAURA: No, Grog is 20.

TRAVIS: Hits.

MATT: All three hit? All right, so no attacks of
opportunity against Trinket. Roll damage, and

everyone takes that damage.

LAURA: I don't know what to roll for cannonball
damage because I've never actually gotten to hit.

MATT: Oh, I know. I have this. It's 2d6 plus
four.

LAURA: Okay. For each person?

MATT: Yep.

LAURA: Oh, okay, so ten for Keyleth.

MATT: Ten points of bludgeoning damage.

LAURA: Seven plus four is 11 for Scanlan.

SAM: Okay.

LAURA: Oh, less for Grog. Eight.

MATT: Eight points of damage for Grog.

LAURA: And while he's doing-- I don't get to shoot
an arrow. Yes, I do! I get to shoot an arrow.

MATT: Bonus.

LAURA: I'm going to shoot an arrow as Trinket is
hitting Grog.

MATT: Okay.

LAURA: Oh god. 14 doesn't hit him.

MATT: Nope. It hits the shoulder and gleans off
and carves a little wound across his chest, but not

enough to do any damage. That ends your turn.
Grog.

LAURA: And now Trinket is close to me, then. Did
he go through them and get back to me?

MATT: Trinket, due to the line, slams into Grog at
the end of it, so he is now between the three

others.

LAURA: Shit.

MATT: Grog. As a ghost, you just got shot and
slammed by a bear. I want you to roll one d20.

MARISHA: Oh, he's going to see if he raged.

TRAVIS: 15.

MATT: 15. Your attention goes to Vex, as opposed
to Trinket. You move out of the way.

SAM: And he takes 3d8.

MATT: That's true.

SAM: Eight plus nine is 17.

MATT: Well, the creature has to make a wisdom
save. Fails, so yeah, takes 3d8. Yep.

SAM: 17.

MATT: 17.

TRAVIS: 17 to hit?

SAM: No, I just hit you with 17 points of damage.

TRAVIS: Okay.

MATT: All right. You're feeling the ghostly form--
you take the damage as soon as the form inside;

you're feeling this dissipation. All right, so you
make your two attacks against Vex.

LAURA: Shit.

TRAVIS: Oh, that's not awesome. That's 17.

LAURA: Doesn't hit.

TRAVIS: That does. 24.

MATT: Yeah. Go ahead and roll damage. The first
hammer swing you're ready for. Swing backward. It

goes long.

LAURA: Grog! Grog, no. No!

TRAVIS: 20 on the first.

MATT: 20 points of damage. (impact noise) First
one didn't hit, did it?

LAURA: The first one didn't hit, so you only get
the 20.

TRAVIS: Oh, just the 20!

MATT: Just 20, so as the first one misses, you
pull back, trying to stop him, but the hammer

still slams you in the side; you don't have time
to move out of the way, and it pushes you up

against the wall. You land on your feet, and you
can feel the pulsing of the blood broken beneath

the skin. That ends Grog's go. Percy, you're up.

TALIESIN: (gasps, sighs) "Hi!" I saw what just
happened, right?

MATT: Yeah.

TALIESIN: I'm going to try to fix my gun.

MATT: Go for it.

TALIESIN: That fixes.

MATT: All righty.

TALIESIN: (sighs) Are you better? Good, then
let's deal with this. I'm going to start diving

around the columns to get away from the wraith.

MATT: Around here?

TALIESIN: Yeah, because I don't have a shot this
round.

MATT: Okay, so you move around that way.

TALIESIN: Yeah, cool.

MATT: All right. That ends your turn?

TALIESIN: That ends my turn.

MATT: It's now their turn. This one currently
loses interest in you and drifts two, three, four,

five, six, seven, eight-- it (whoosh) passes
through the stone. Moves through and appears on

the other side. I need you to make a charisma
saving throw.

TALIESIN: I have advantage on charisma saving
throws right now, do I not?

LAURA: Oh, yeah, because she cast--

MARISHA: It's not there anymore. Sorry.

MATT: Yeah. She dropped it when she picked up the
concentration spell.

TRAVIS: Roll high, golden snitch.

MATT: And that was ability checks, not saving
throws.

TALIESIN: Oh, then never mind. What's my charisma
saving-- oh boy. Nope. I rolled a natural one. You

did this! This is the third natural one. You
touched it.

LAURA: That's why I'm superstitious about my
dice.

MARISHA: I touched it.

LAURA: He also touched mine, and I rolled a
three.

TALIESIN: I'll come back to you after
Thanksgiving, baby.

MATT: And with that, it goes dark and a spiritual
intent takes over your body. You feel like you're

being puppeted, and you have no control over
yourself. You're hidden, captured within your own

form. All right, that ends his turn. Vax, you're
up.

LIAM: Okay.

MATT: You still feel the residual warmth in your
glove pulsing.

LIAM: All right. I'm going to click my boots
together. I'm going to move towards him.

MATT: Towards Percy?

LIAM: Towards Percy. Shit. I'm going to take the
keen dagger and stick it into his gut, and I'm

going to take the glove with the symbol of
Sarenrae and punch him in the nose.

MATT: Okay.

LAURA: I like that you're violent instead of just
going, "Healing hand."

MARISHA: Yeah!

LAURA: You go, "fuck you!"

SAM: Can I just say, this is Percy beating up
Percy right now.

(laughter)

MATT: Yeah. You're being attacked and stabbed by
yourself. It's weird.

LIAM: 20 for the dagger.

TALIESIN: I'm not reading too much into this.

MATT: That hits.

LIAM: The punch is just strength modifier, right?

TALIESIN: This is not a metaphor!

LIAM: 17 for the punch.

MATT: All right. Roll damage for the dagger.
What's your AC?

TALIESIN: 18.

MATT: 18. Okay.

LIAM: Nine.

MATT: You take nine points of piercing damage as
the dagger stabs into your stomach. As you swing

to haul the punch off, the body ducks out of the
way.

MARISHA: Take the punch!

MATT: All right. That ends your turn.

LIAM: Wait. How far did I go?

MATT: You were there, so that's 15 feet.

LIAM: I want to spring back and run as far as I
can in the other direction, around the corner

towards the rest.

MATT: All right. That brings us to Scanlan.

SAM: I walk between Grog and Keyleth, maintaining
my 15-foot distance. Even more between.

MATT: There?

SAM: Yeah, and I'll Thunderwave them both. Oh no,
and I hit Trinket.

(laughter)

MATT: All right. Constitution saving throw from
Grog and Keyleth and Trinket.

TRAVIS: Do we roll something?

LAURA: Yeah.

MATT: What did you roll?

MARISHA: 12.

MATT: (thud) Grog?

TRAVIS: I rolled an 18.

MATT: What's your DC?

SAM: 19.

MATT: All right, so roll damage. What's
Trinket's?

LAURA: You have a constitution saving throw of
eight.

TRAVIS: Oh. 26.

MATT: Okay, so you take half damage.

LAURA: Trinket rolled an 11.

MATT: Okay. (thud)

SAM: Eight points of damage.

MATT: Okay, so you take eight points of damage.
Grog takes four. Trinket takes eight.

SAM: Are we trying to kill our friends, here?

TRAVIS: Yeah, get us.

LAURA: Get them unconscious so they come out. But
then if they're unconscious, the ghosts come out

and they could possess us.

SAM: That's great.

MARISHA: But they take radiant damage.

MATT: Keyleth, top of the turn, roll--

MARISHA: Did I get radiant damage from that push?

SAM: No.

MATT: You take 3d8 points of radiant damage.

MARISHA: Oh, I do.

SAM: From the spirit guardians. Oh, and I'll also
inspire Vax. (sings) Rip out someone's tongue

and I'll know you. Cure someone dead and I'll show
you've got those moves with dagger. You've got

those moves with dagger. You've got those--

ALL: (sings) Moves like dagger.

SAM: Okay. 13.

MATT: All right, so 13 points of radiant damage to
you and to... okay.

MARISHA: 62 hit points.

MATT: All right. Scanlan, that's your turn.
Keyleth.

MARISHA: Yeah?

MATT: You turn around as you see Vax rush up with
a look of fear and intensity on his face. You see

her turn around with this twisted grin on her
face, and she brings her staff up and swings it

towards your head. Roll an attack.

MARISHA: (whoosh) Baseball. 17.

MATT: What's your AC?

LIAM: It is 18.

MATT: 18. As she swings, you duck, and her staff
(impact noise) smacks against the stone wall of

the mausoleum. That ends your turn, bringing us to
Vex.

LAURA: And I'm in a fight with Grog.

MATT: Correct.

LAURA: Okay. This is totally awesome.

SAM: Wait! We have Cass. Does she get a turn?

LAURA: She's not doing anything.

MATT: I forgot to add her to the initiative.
That's my own fault.

LAURA: I just thought she was being a bitch.

MATT: I'll give her a couple of rounds here in a
second. Anyway, finish up.

LAURA: Trinket runs forward and tries to pull
Grog's focus so that I can back away.

MATT: Okay, so Trinket moves up to there.

LAURA: He tries to grapple him, or something. Can
he do anything to make Grog not be able to attack

me if I run away? Can he try to knock him down, or
something? Jump up on his back and knock him

over.

MATT: Use an action to make a trip attack. Sure,
why not. Roll an athletics check.

LAURA: Okay. Yeah, no problem.

TALIESIN: I'm imagining a bear doing mild
calisthenics.

LAURA: An athletics check for me?

MATT: No, for Trinket.

LAURA: Okay. 12?

MATT: Make a strength saving throw, Grog.

TRAVIS: That's a 26.

MATT: Yeah, Trinket rushes over and tries to knock
you off your feet, and you just (thud) no effect.

You still have a bonus action and your movement,
if you want to.

LAURA: I'm going to try to roll out of the way.
I'm going to try to duck down and roll out of the

way to make him less likely to hit me.

SAM: Yeah! The old "less likely" trick.

MATT: Make an acrobatics check.

LAURA: Okay. Oh, my dice suck tonight!

SAM: You're inspired.

MARISHA: He's sucking up all the good energy.

LAURA: That's good! Acrobatics. 28.

MATT: 28? Grog, roll an attack with disadvantage,
just for the hell of it.

TRAVIS: 23.

MATT: Okay, roll damage against Vex as she pulls
away from you.

TRAVIS: The first one was a natural 20.

MATT: Be glad it was disadvantage.

TRAVIS: 21.

MATT: You take 21 points of bludgeoning damage. As
you pull away, Grog (whack) backhands you with his

hammer. Now you can take your bonus action, if you
want to.

LAURA: As my bonus action, I'm going to cast--

TRAVIS: Kill Goliath.

LAURA: Right? I don't want to use any of my shit!

TRAVIS: Can you conjure a keg of beer?

SAM: That would distract you.

LAURA: I can't, but that's a really good idea. For
my bonus action, I'm going to go, help!

SAM: You can use your bonus action to throw me the
gun!

LAURA: Oh. No.

MATT: All right, that ends your turn. Cassandra is
going to rush up angrily with her shortsword out.

Rushing up behind Grog, she's going to make a
strike. That is going to be 18.

What's your armor class?

TRAVIS: 19.

MATT: 19. She goes to strike and whiffs,
unfortunately. She's going to attack with her

dagger she pulls out in her off hand. Rolls a
three. Yeah. I'm giving her a second round because

I missed the one. She's going to angrily pull up
again and attempt to strike with both a second

time. That will be a 20.

TRAVIS: That hits.

MATT: All righty. Because Trinket is adjacent, she
gets sneak attack damage.

LAURA: Yay! Oh, she's a rogue.

LIAM: Rogue.

MATT: So you take 27 points of piercing damage.
Well, it's slashing damage from the shortsword.

The offhand attack is another three. Going to
miss.

TRAVIS: Okay.

MATT: All righty. That brings us to Grog. Roll
another d20.

TRAVIS: 11.

MATT: 11. Your attention switches to Cassandra.
Roll two attacks.

SAM: Do I get my radiant damage on him?

MATT: At the top of his turn, you do, yeah.
Actually, before that happens, roll radiant

damage.

SAM: 21.

TRAVIS: 21 points?

MATT: With that, as you're reeling up your hammer
to strike Cassandra, a burst of radiant energy

disintegrates the ghostly presence within your
body, and you find your mind come to you as you're

about to go into a downswing to smash Cassandra's
head in. You catch yourself.

SAM: Do it anyway, Grog!

(laughter)

MARISHA: Don't!

SAM: She's one of us.

MATT: You have your turn now.

TRAVIS: Oh, I have my turn?

MATT: Yes.

SAM: Grog, I know you don't know what's going on
right now, but kill Keyleth!

TRAVIS: Okay. I turn and walk over to Keyleth.

MATT: Over Cassandra.

TALIESIN: Poor Cass.

TRAVIS: I'm going to swing my hammer at the middle
of her chest.

SAM: Oh, you're scary. She's so cute.

TRAVIS: 15.

MATT: What's your AC, Keyleth?

MARISHA: 18.

MATT: She ducks out of the way with this
preternatural speed.

TRAVIS: Wow. 16.

MARISHA: (cackles)

MATT: Keyleth's ghostly form is too fast for you.
The confusion of the whole sequence caused you to

not be able to think straight in the moment, and
you miss twice. That ends your turn, Grog. Percy.

LAURA: Oh, right. Percy's still--

SAM: Jesus. And he's got guns.

MATT: Your gun was just fixed, correct?

TALIESIN: Yeah.

(laughter)

TALIESIN: Would he use the gun or the sword in
phantom mode?

MATT: You just finished fixing this, and you have
a gun before you. It's going to use it. Make three

attacks against Vex-- Vax. I mean Vax.

TALIESIN: I'm going to use this die, because it's
been--

MARISHA: Failing? Yeah, I touched it. Use the one
that I touched.

TALIESIN: That's-- I can't talk. 21.

LIAM: That hits, but what's applicable? Uncanny
Dodge or Evasion for a gunshot?

MATT: Whatever reduces the damage to half. It's
not a saving throw, so it would be-- which one

reduces the damage by half?

LIAM: That's Uncanny Dodge.

MATT: Then it would be Uncanny Dodge. All right,
so attack two more times.

TALIESIN: 21.

MATT: Hits. And?

TALIESIN: 26.

MATT: All right, so roll damage three times. The
first one is halved.

TALIESIN: All right. 13.

MATT: So you take seven damage.

TALIESIN: Fuck me. 15.

MATT: 15 piercing damage.

TALIESIN: And 11.

MATT: Okay. (three gunshots)

SAM: We are so strong! We should never fight
ourselves.

MATT: All right. That ends Percy's turn there.
Vax, you're up.

LIAM: Am I able to slide around Keyleth closer to
you, into that little alcove, or am I too pressed

against the wall? The other way.

MATT: Currently, it's just enemies, so you can't
move past them.

LIAM: Okay.

MATT: I could make you roll an acrobatics check,
if you wanted.

LIAM: That's all right. I flip the daggers over,
and I start to whale on

the back of Keyleth's head.

MATT: Okay.

LIAM: Pommels of the daggers.

SAM: Kiss or kill.

LIAM: 18.

MATT: Are you doing sneak attack on this? She's
adjacent to Grog, so yeah.

LIAM: Definitely.

MATT: 18 hits.

LIAM: Second one is 20.

MARISHA: Hits.

MATT: They both hit, so roll damage on both.

LIAM: And then 32 on the last.

MATT: Oh, that's right. So three hits, with sneak
attack.

MARISHA: Oh, sneak attack is going to take me
down.

LIAM: Three. Plus seven is ten. And the ten gets
doubled? Or everything?

MARISHA: Dice rolls get doubled.

LIAM: Ten, 16, 20, 21, 22, 23, 25, 50.

SAM: 50?

LIAM: 50 for the first hit.

MARISHA: (laughs) I'm still alive.

MATT: Was it doubled because you rolled a
critical?

MARISHA: Sneak Attack.

MATT: Sneak Attack, you just roll the dice.

LIAM: Well, then no. 25.

MATT: 25.

LIAM: Thank you.

MATT: No worries.

LIAM: Plus nine, plus nine.

MATT: Okay, so 25 plus 18...

LIAM: 38.

MARISHA: 38? Okay.

MATT: 25 plus 18 is 43.

MARISHA: 43?

MATT: Yep.

MARISHA: What was I at just now?

SAM: 62. So you're at 19.

MARISHA: 19 hit points.

LIAM: I'm going to use-- I don't care. I'm going
to slide around Grog, to the side. Towards

Scanlan. Right there, yeah.

MATT: Okay.

SAM: What's up, brother?

MATT: All right, that ends your turn. Scanlan,
you're up.

SAM: I'm up again?

MATT: Yep.

SAM: I feel like I just went. All right. We're
trying to kill our friends, right?

LIAM: Yes.

SAM: Okay. Thank you for moving, Vax. I'm going to
blast them both with lightning. Straight shot

through, 100 feet.

MATT: Through those two? Yeah. Okay.

SAM: Yeah. What do I do? 8d6?

MATT: 8d6, and I need Keyleth and Percy to both
make dexterity saving throws.

MARISHA: Just the two of us? I actually have
disadvantage on dexterity stuff because of

corruption. 20 for me.

TALIESIN: 21.

MATT: You both take half damage.

SAM: 24.

MATT: You both take 12 points of lightning damage.
The bolt strikes through, hitting both of you in

the chest, but you both manage to pull out of the
way just in time to reduce the

impact of the spell.

SAM: And as a bonus action, I'll do a Healing Word
on Vex. Right? You're injured badly?

LAURA: I mean, not badly, but--

SAM: Oh, well then fuck it. Oh, you're injured
badly? Would I know that?

MATT: You could glance over and look at him as he
pulls up to you, and see him (pants).

LIAM: I've got gunshots in my back.

SAM: Okay. Yeah, so I'll Healing Word.

MATT: Roll the healing points for that.

SAM: What is it? Shit. It's right here: d4 plus
five. That's it?! So lame. Seven points.

MATT: All right. That ends your turn. Keyleth, at
the top of your turn, roll 3d8 radiant damage.

SAM: Ooh, yes. Oh, this is going to knock you
out.

MARISHA: Hopefully.

SAM: That's nine already.

MARISHA: Yeah, I'm down.

SAM: Six more is 15.

MATT: Keyleth falls unconscious to the ground as
this blast of radiant energy bursts around her as

this spiritual radiant form that's been
surrounding the area and stalking the various

individuals. It slams into her form. As she
collapses, the ghost is jettisoned from her body

and looks like it's been taking the radiant damage
and is having a hard time keeping its corporeal

form. All right, that ends Keyleth's turn.
Keyleth, I need you to roll a death saving throw.

MARISHA: Nope. Six.

MATT: You take one death saving throw failure. All
right. Vex, you're up.

LAURA: I see the ghost come out of her? Okay, I'm
going to shoot it with my Blazing Bowstring.

MATT: Okay.

LAURA: 16?

MATT: 16 hits.

LAURA: 17. I want a good one. 17. 25.

MATT: 25. As you pull back the arrow and you see
the flames ignite around the shaft, you release

it. It slams into the ghost, and you see its form
(raspy cry) disperse from the impact, the arrow

hitting the wall behind it and shattering against
the stone. Ghost destroyed.

LAURA: For my second attack, I'm going to attack
Percy. Can I see him?

MATT: Yep, right over there.

LAURA: All right, I'm going to do it. 21.

MATT: 21 hits.

TALIESIN: (ghost noises)

LAURA: 16.

MATT: 16 points of damage to you, Percy.

TALIESIN: 16?

MATT: Yep.

TALIESIN: Cool.

LAURA: That was also through my Blazing
Bowstring.

MATT: So you're using both Blazing Bowstring
abilities right now?

LAURA: Yeah.

MATT: Okay. A flaming arrow (impact noise) sticks
into the shoulder, and you can feel the flames

burning into your body--

LAURA: Plus another five. That was another five
burning damage.

TRAVIS: 21.

TALIESIN: 21?

MATT: There you go.

TALIESIN: I'm still doing fine.

MARISHA: I hate these things.

MATT: It's now Cass's turn. Cass, who's having a
weird time with the whole process of seeing a

bunch of herselves and her brothers stabbing each
other and getting possessed.

LAURA: How do we even know who's who?

MARISHA: Stop hitting yourself!

TALIESIN: Thank you for that. I was almost going
there.

MATT: She's right there, and she brings herself
around the way. She's not able to do any actions,

so she sees another of her brothers possessed but
clutching the gun in the hand, and is steeling her

blade for the moment and doesn't do anything with
her turn. Grog, you're up.

TRAVIS: "Percy!" And I run towards him.

TALIESIN: (creepy voice) I'll swallow your soul!

TRAVIS: 25.

TALIESIN: Is no one a Sam Raimi fan? Never mind.

SAM: That was Donald Duck, right?

TRAVIS: 18?

MATT: What's your armor class?

TALIESIN: 18.

MATT: Yeah, hits. Damage on both.

TRAVIS: 17 for the first one. 19 for the second
one.

MATT: Okay, so 36 points of damage. (two impacts)
You're thrown up against the wall and almost

pushed over off your feet from the sheer weight of
the impact.

TALIESIN: It has to be magic damage, though.

LAURA: It was. It's a magic war hammer.

TALIESIN: Okay, so it's taking damage, too. That's
good. Maybe.

MARISHA: They have to be spells.

TRAVIS: There was fire damage.

MATT: Yeah. It seems that the radiant damage from
the Spirit Guardian spell you're doing has been

doing the bulk of damage to them while they're
inside the form. Most everything else is going

straight to the individual.

TRAVIS and SAM: Oh shit!

SAM: We've just been killing our friends for no
reason?

LAURA: Good times.

TRAVIS: Let's pass our--

SAM: Hold our wrath.

MATT: Percy. You have three more shots with this
gun, two of which are magical.

TALIESIN: I do.

MATT: So you pull up the gun, you take a step
back.

TALIESIN: Does he get an attack of opportunity?

MATT: You do. Attack of opportunity against Percy,
if you want to take it.

MARISHA: Come on, take him down.

LAURA: Oh no!

TRAVIS: That's a natural 20.

TALIESIN: Yes!

MATT: Roll damage.

TRAVIS: That's actually the first time I've
critted on this show.

MATT: You get additional dice.

TRAVIS: It does additional damage.

MATT: It's the first time you've critically hit on
this show?

TRAVIS: I think so, because I've never doubled my
dice.

MATT: That's absurd.

TRAVIS: I know. 14.

TALIESIN: 14? I'm already out.

MATT: Roll damage. I want to know what it is.

TALIESIN: Yeah, go ahead, but I'm out.

TRAVIS: 18, so-- what was the first one? 18 and?

MARISHA: You said 14.

MATT: Okay. You are out. Percy falls to the
ground, unconscious. The spirit is jettisoned out

the side. That ends your turn entirely. The ghost
is going to shift over. It does not get its

possession back.

TALIESIN: It was just a crit. It wasn't hit
twice.

MARISHA: It wasn't when he was down.

MATT: Percy, I need you to make a death saving
throw, by the way.

TALIESIN: Yay!

MATT: Okay. The ghost gets pushed out of the body.
With you on the ground and its possession not

returned, it reaches down and strikes at you with
its withering touch.

TALIESIN: Oh, for the love of--

MARISHA: With its withering touch?

MATT: You take two death saving throw losses.

TALIESIN: Whoa!

LAURA: He rolled a crit?

MATT: It's an auto-crit because he's unconscious.

LAURA: Oh, jeez Louise!

MARISHA: But you passed your first one.

TALIESIN: I passed my first one.

MARISHA: So you have two failures on you?

TALIESIN: I have two failures and one success. So
guys? Heal me. Heal me now.

MATT: Vax, you're up.

LIAM: I start sprinting around that open hallway
near Cassandra. I stop by Cassandra and dagger,

dagger, dagger.

MATT: Do it.

LIAM: First one is 30. Second one is 15. Third is
28.

MATT: All three hit.

LIAM: They all hit? Good. Ten plus seven is 17. 27
total.

MATT: 27 damage, total?

LIAM: All magic.

MATT: All righty, so all daggers strike through
its form. You see it tearing through its ethereal

physicality, but it's still holding its form
together. It looks damaged, but it's still holding

its form on this plane. Scanlan, you're up.

SAM: I vault over Keyleth--

LIAM: Wait. I ran 20 feet? 30 feet?

MATT: You were here, so 35.

LIAM: 35? Can I run the "west" of the way--

LAURA: The "west" of the way?

LIAM: The "west" of the way through it in front of
Percy. Yeah.

MATT: There? You can, yeah.

LIAM: That's what I want to do.

MATT: All right. Scanlan?

SAM: I vault over Keyleth's body, using the right
part of a buttcheek to launch off. Grab a little

feel as I go.

MATT: Creepy gnome.

SAM: I try to get within 15 feet of the thing.

MATT: Okay.

SAM: And as my first thing, I will Healing Word
Mr. Taliesin Jaffe. Percival de Rolo de Monico de

Chico...

TALIESIN: (sings) It's delightful, it's
de-lovely.

SAM: Just at normal level, so that's nine points.

TALIESIN: Thank you!

MATT: Your death saving throws are fine.

TALIESIN: Nine. Nine points! Ah-ah-ah.

SAM: Jesus. I don't want to burn another fucking
thing on this guy.

TALIESIN: Your aura thingy with 15 feet should do
it.

SAM: I know, but that's when he moves, not when I
move, so I will mock him! I will say, you're not

even corporeal. You have no substance. You're a
nothing. You're a nobody! You won't amount to

nothing in this world!

(laughter)

MATT: Okay.

TRAVIS: (laughing) You're a nothing. You're a
nobody!

MATT: What's the DC on that?

SAM: 19.

MATT: It fails its save. Roll 3d4.

MARISHA: Kill it, Scanlan. Kill it.

SAM: Six.

MATT: (laughing) How do you want to do this?

(cheers and laughter)

TRAVIS: A mocking kill!

SAM: (giggles) I would like it to cry. That's
all.

MATT: (laughs) As you're shouting this, you can
see its ghostly form. Its face suddenly shifts

into the face of a person.

SAM: You were nothing in life, and now you're
nothing in death!

MATT: It recalls its memories. You can see its
physical form become that of a young adult wearing

robes that hold the symbol of the de Rolo crest.
You see it look at its hands, and you see it look

at you and look at Percy on the ground,
unconscious, and it moans out in horror as it

suddenly dissipates.

SAM: I'm sorry, I didn't mean it!

TALIESIN: Which one of my ancestors did you just
shame to death? Again?

SAM: The one who possessed you!

TALIESIN: Okay, fair.

MARISHA: Again! (laughs)

TALIESIN: You're going to say it, aren't you?

LIAM: I double back to Keyleth and start trying to
administer some sort of aid.

MARISHA: Hi, I'm dead.

LIAM: Medicine check? Is that it?

MATT: You can make a medicine check to try to
stabilize her, yeah.

LIAM: 18.

MATT: 18, yeah. You stabilize the bleeding. She's
no longer making death saving throws. She is still

unconscious. You all reconvene. Take a breath.

SAM: Wait, is Keyleth alive?

MARISHA: Nope.

SAM: Oh Jesus! Keyleth, I'm sorry.

MARISHA: I'm stabilized.

LIAM: She needs help. Scanlan, come here.

TALIESIN: Let's pull ourselves together.

SAM: I will sing a song of rest, which will give
us 1d8 for everybody.

MATT: For hit dice spent, or just for the rest?

SAM: I don't know. It just says 1d8. It's my song
of rest.

MATT: Song of rest.

TRAVIS: I've got a lot of health potions.

MARISHA: You do?

TRAVIS: Yeah.

MARISHA: That's good.

TALIESIN: I've got three.

TRAVIS: Would you like one?

TALIESIN: Probably.

LAURA: What if we take a short rest?

MATT: At the end of the short rest, everyone gains
an additional 1d8. It's nice. Doesn't hurt.

MARISHA: I come to consciousness by Scanlan's
singing?

SAM: (singing) You're down with more HP. Yeah, you
know me!

TALIESIN: That's nice.

MARISHA: What?

TRAVIS: Hit dice?

LAURA: Yeah, we can roll some hit dice.

MATT: You guys take a short rest here to roll some
hit dice.

MARISHA: (groans) Wait, how much did you heal us,
Scanlan?

SAM: Just one extra d8. Do I roll that, or do
they?

MATT: Everyone rolls it on their own. It's fine.

SAM: Holy ba-Jesus, guys.

LAURA: That was insane.

SAM: Can we never do that again?

LAURA: Well, we're about to, I think.

LIAM: Who feels like making camp?

SAM: Making camp?

LIAM: Yes.

SAM: We're in a tomb with ghosts. We have to
continue on.

LIAM: I'm exhausted.

TALIESIN: We'll heal, but I think we need to
continue down.

LAURA: We need to keep going.

MATT: Cassandra looks about the rest of you, still
seeing a group of herself and her brothers. She

shakes her head for a second. "We can rest a
moment, but I don't think we can stay here much

"longer. The more time we spend here, the more
chance they have of returning. If they get the

"jump on us, we're done."

TRAVIS: Let's go.

LAURA: We need to press on.

SAM: Yeah, aye.

MARISHA: Yeah.

SAM: Let's continue.

TRAVIS: Yeah.

SAM: Into the tunnel. Into the dark.

MATT: She sheathes her sword and her dagger.
(sighs) "Let's do this." As you all climb into the

beginning of the excavation tunnel leading to 
the south, slowly making your way towards--

SAM: Wait! Sorry. Percival, any point in looting?

TALIESIN: Don't loot my family's crypt!

SAM: Sorry! Forget I mentioned it. Let's go kick
some ass.

MATT: Making your way towards the tunnels beneath
the city of Whitestone, towards whatever this

ziggurat construction project has been, we will
pick this up the week after Thanksgiving.

LAURA: Oh man! We're taking a whole week off from
this.

MATT: Yeah. We went a little late tonight to try
and give a little extra since we're not going to

be here next week, but that's it for the evening.

MARISHA: We almost got our ass kicked by ghosts!

SAM: No, by each other.

LAURA: We really need a cleric.

MATT: There were some really bad-- everyone rolled
poorly on those saving throws.

That sucked. Oh, yes!

LAURA: Oh, man. Right. Giveaways.

ZAC: We've got to do a giveaway, so I am opening
the floodgates.

TALIESIN: Welcome, all!

LAURA: The whole time.

TALIESIN: This is Twitch. Holy cow.

MARISHA: I might need to burn a Cure Wounds or
something.

TALIESIN: I'm not at a hundred, but I'm okay.

MARISHA: I burned almost all of my hit dice to
bring me back up.

TALIESIN: Ashley is getting home right now, in
case we need her.

LAURA: Yeah.

MATT: We're good.

TRAVIS: Are we?

TALIESIN: Can she come in for 30 seconds and heal
us?

MATT: (laughs) It doesn't work that way.

TALIESIN: I know.

MARISHA: Guys, I got a little bit of a connection!
And gone. That's all.

ZAC: We also got up to $6,000 total so far,
raised.

LAURA: Oh wow, that's great!

MATT: Incredible!

ZAC: So we will continue that throughout the
weekend, all the way up to Monday.

MATT: Thank you all so much for helping out.

TALIESIN: Holy cow.

MATT: You're helping a lot of wonderful people do
a lot of amazing things in places that need it.

ZAC: So the floodgates are open. We're going to
let that build up for a little bit and then do the

giveaway.

MATT: Oh! Chat room explode!

ZAC: Oh shoot, that's true. The next episode is
Critmas, as well, isn't it?

LAURA and TALIESIN: No.

ZAC: Is there not? There's one before it?

LAURA: No, there's another one before.

ZAC: Are you sure?

TALIESIN: No.

MARISHA: No, we're doing the Christmas Critmas a
little bit earlier, so we're going to do the next

one before we go on Christmas break, right?

MATT: No, the 3rd is the next Critmas. Because the
17th, our last show, is also the opening night of

the new Star Wars movie, we can't go late that
night because everyone's going to be gone.

LAURA: Oh. So yeah, we can't do Critmas next
week.

ZAC: Next week's Thanksgiving.

LAURA: I mean, on the 3rd.

ZAC: And we've already told everyone the first
week of the month is--

SAM: So the Christmas Critmas is going to be the
3rd.

MATT: It's going to be the 3rd.

LAURA: December 3rd?

ZAC: Yes.

TALIESIN: Yeah, that will be the Crit--

ZAC: Math is hard, guys.

MATT: Welcome to our late-night meetings.

(all laugh)

ZAC: All right, pull in a winner.

MATT: We've got a winner coming in.

LAURA: Can't we just do it the second week? It's
going to be a long episode. We'll have to cut it

super short.

MARISHA: That's what I was thinking. Can we move
it to the second week?

TALIESIN: Move it to the 10th.

MARISHA: Christmas Critmas is going to be the
10th.

ZAC: Before we officially say that, let me check
the schedule, because we've already told everyone

the first week, so before we say that officially,
let me check the schedule and make sure that's

okay.

LAURA: It's going to be really hard to do it on
the 3rd.

ZAC: Okay.

TALIESIN: I'm literally leaving the studio on the
17th for a road trip.

ZAC: IEShoemaker is the winner.

MATT: IEShoemaker, congratulations!

ZAC: We're sending you a message right now. Send
back with your address and we'll send you all

sorts of great shit. Tune in tomorrow, guys, for
Group Hug. Hector's bringing a couple of comedian

friends of his, and they are playing all of the
Jessica Jones Alias characters tomorrow, and

nobody wanted to play Purple Man.

MATT: Understandably so.

TALIESIN: Creepiest character in the Marvel
universe.

ZAC: How do we do this?

TALIESIN: He is the creepiest creep.

ZAC: Whoever plays him has to know you're going to
get your ass kicked.

MATT: That's Tennant, right?

TALIESIN: That's Tennant. That's also who I
dressed up as at the superhero party. I painted

myself purple.

ZAC: You did Purple Man? Why would you do that?!

TALIESIN: There's an amazing photo of a friend of
ours dressed as Luke Cage, just beating the shit

out of me. It's amazing.

ZAC: Well, that's good.

MARISHA: He also sang Gogol Bordello's--

MARISHA and TALIESIN: "Start Wearing Purple."

MATT: It was good.

TALIESIN: It was creepy.

MATT: I'm just excited to see all the Doctor Who
Tennant fans watch the series for Tennant and then

be like, "Oh no, no, no!"

ZAC: Yeah. Sorry, guys. No bueno.

TALIESIN: It's just going to be bad.

ZAC: Sweet. That's it for tonight, guys.

MATT: Thank you guys so much.

MARISHA: See you in two weeks!

MATT: For the next episode. See you guys in two weeks.

TALIESIN: Happy Thanksgiving!

MARISHA: There will still be a new comic next week
to hold you guys over. And playlists. Guess whose

playlist is next.

TRAVIS: Oh, is it mine?

MARISHA: You're the last one, right?

TRAVIS: Oh, I'm the Thanksgiving playlist.

SAM: Does the DM get a playlist?

MATT: I get one.

MARISHA: He does, but he'll go last. Because you
always go last.

MATT: All right, guys. Thank you so much. Have a
wonderful evening.

We'll see you in a couple of weeks.

MARISHA: Bye!

SAM: Happy Thanksgiving.

TALIESIN: Happy Thanksgiving!