MATT: Hello, everyone and welcome to
ta-te-ple-plah. It's already off to a good start,

huh?

TRAVIS: (laughs) Yes.

MARISHA: Beautiful.

TALIESIN: Live streaming.

MATT: Welcome to this evening's episode of
Critical Role, where a bunch of us nerdy-ass voice

actors sit around and play Dungeons & Dragons.

TRAVIS: And make fun of our DM.

MATT: Exactly. Live internet, it's a wonderful
thing. This is why you don't drink before a game.

All right, so, first and foremost, thank you.
Welcome. We're jumping in here shortly from a bit

of a climatic endpoint last week, but before we
get into that, we're going to go ahead and try and

cruise through these pre-show announcements. So,
first and foremost, I want to let you guys know

that the short video series I'm doing for Geek and
Sundry, that's GM and DM Tips, launched last week

on Friday, and a few videos will be coming out
every Friday for the next couple months or so, so

every Friday go check that out on
GeekandSundry.com to see what other bit of

rambling I'm doing and hoping to try and help some
of you make your game a little more interesting.

So tomorrow I guess is the next one. I'm not quite
sure what topic it's on, but it should be fun. So

check that out. As a reminder, most of us are
going to be present at Wizard World Portland next

month. We'll be there Saturday and Sunday for the
con, and we'll have a panel both days. I think

Saturday is the Critical Role panel, and Sunday is
going to be more of a voiceover-related one, so

hope to see you guys there. Bring your stuff if
you want to have it signed and come get ready to

ask questions and hang out, basically.

LAURA: And par-ty!

TRAVIS: And also find us during the days in the
general hall area, we'll be around quite a bit.

MATT: Yeah, we'll be around. So, if you would like
to see us possibly come to a Wizard World near you

in the future, go ahead and send a tweet to Wizard
World's Twitter, and let them know how excited

you'd be to see us at more events in the future,
because that would make them more inclined to want

to bring us to more events! Let's see-- Also as a
reminder, me and Marisha will be at Colorado Anime

Fest, February 12th through the 14th in Denver,
Colorado.

MARISHA: Valentine's Day Weekend.

MATT: Yep, so we'll be out there, hanging with you
folks in Colorado. You should come say hello, we'd

love to see you. Also, a reminder, the Dungeon
Masters Guild, awesome new opportunity for content

creators for Dungeons and Dragons. You know,
create your own classes, your own rules, your own

feats, your own stuff. There's a great place to
put it up there, and you can set your price for

it. You can check out my most updated version of
the Blood Hunter and recently updated Gunslinger,

which is now version 1.1, just went up yesterday,
so if you have one of those you can update that

and get the newest set. A couple minor changes and
tweaks.

TRAVIS: And it's super cool.

TALIESIN: Anything I need to know about?

MATT: Nothing you have to worry about yet. It was
mainly the level 15 ability piercing shot and a

couple of clarifications that I know. You'll be
fine.

MARISHA: It's for you to find out, all right.

TALIESIN: That's his subtle way of saying I'm not
going to make level 15.

MATT: Could be. Ouch. We shall see. All right,
Wyrmwood Gaming, awesome friend of the show. They

still have their 'critrole' discount code, you get
free shipping if you go ahead and order something

from their site, really awesome-

LIAM: 'critrole'. The code is 'critrole'.

MATT: Just one delightful word.

Pretty wood. That's a cool arrangement, I
like that.

MARISHA: Thanks. I designed it like this.

TALIESIN: You're so creative.

MATT: Oh, and Liam, if you want to check your
Twitter, there's a cool little present I think

waiting for you now from one of our fan artists.
You know her as Mikandii, is her Twitter. She has

a cool little thing for you.

LIAM: Yes I will, I am very excited

LAURA: Is it you and Gilmore making out?

LIAM: That's emblazoned on the inside of my mind.
Wow!

LAURA: What is it? What is it?

LIAM: Wow. Oh, nothing.

LAURA: No, I want to see it!

LAURA: Wow! That's amazing!

MATT: I haven't seen it yet, so I'm excited.

LIAM: Wow. It's beautiful. Thank you.

LAURA: Oh my god, he looks so dreamy.

MATT: So, go to @VoiceofOBrien to see what
apparently he is looking at, that I have no idea

what it is. Hopefully it's not just a giant dick.

LIAM: That's included.

MARISHA: It's subversive. It's what you see in the
art.

MATT: Yeah, yeah. It's your interpretation.

MATT: Now I'm excited for that.

MARISHA: Oh, I want to see the two side-by-side.
Yes, there's a Kickstarter up right now called

Lost Hope: the Series, that I'm a part of. It's
like Battlestar Galactica meets Archer and, yeah.

I voice a character named Simmons in there. It's
fun. Go check it out.

LIAM: That's a good pitch.

MATT: There you go. And the Mythica 4 Kickstarter
is up right now, as well. They're already

rocketing toward their goal, which is awesome, and
you get to see me as an evil necromancer casting

magic spells at good people. And actually at Kevin
Sorbo, second film in a row I get to cast magic at

him, pretty excited about that. So check that out.
Did you have something you wanted to announce?

TRAVIS: Yeah. Matt and I are both in Warner Bros.
Home Entertainment's Batman: Bad Blood! Which is

out right now on Digital Download on iTunes. It's
solid rock. Can't move.

LAURA: Solid rock.

TRAVIS: Yeah. I play the Heretic. Matt plays a
million other people. It's really cool, check it

out. We fight Batman.

MATT: Yeah! I get electrocuted.

TRAVIS: I sing Taylor Swift songs and all that.

MATT: I jump around and punch things, it's fun.
Oh, and last but not least announcement, next

Monday on Ivan's wonderful RPG show No Survivors,
me, Laura, Felicia, Wil, a bunch of people, I

haven't looked at the full list yet, are all going to
be guesting on that as players for a round of one

of my favorite RPGs, Paranoia.

LAURA: Which I haven't ever played. But Ivan was telling
me about it and it sounds like so much fun.

MATT: Yeah, it's one of my favorite RPG systems
ever. So next Monday, go check out No

Survivors. We're all going to be playing Paranoia
and making ridiculous choices and probably dying

in horrible, wonderful ways, so, we'll be there
for that. Hi, Sam. Glad you could join us, buddy.

SAM: (whispering) Thanks.

MATT: Sam Riegel, ladies and gentlemen.

LIAM: Hi, Sam.

MARISHA: I like this sweater, is this new?

SAM: Thanks. Yeah.

LAURA: It's so hot in here, though.

SAM: Oh no, I'll take it off.

TRAVIS: You and me, we got problems now.

(laughter)

MARISHA: Oh god!

TRAVIS: I'd like to Great Weapon Master right now.
Where's Scanlan on the map?

MATT: He's right over here. You can work towards
over there shortly.

LIAM: All this time you've been trying to kick my
teeth in and your real enemy is right over here.

TRAVIS: True colors, (singing) shining through!

(laughter)

MATT: All right! Good, it's getting you in
character, perfect. So now we've finished all the

announcements I believe, if anyone has anything
else we're going to go ahead and get into

tonight's episode of Critical Role. So, where we left
off, our intrepid adventurers, Vox Machina, having

returned the traitor Riskel Daxio to Sovereign
Uriel in the center of the town of Emon, Grog

beheading him as part of his punishment for being
such a traitorous worshiper of the evil entity

known as Vecna. Upon going out for a pub crawl,
came across Gilmore in a secret speakeasy, managed

to enjoy a Heroes' Feast at his expense, whereas
Vex and Vax both, all of you, got pretty-- Keyleth

got very-- drunk.

LAURA: I didn't get drunk at all.

MATT: That's right, you didn't drink.

MARISHA: I got pretty wasted.

MATT: Gilmore had a very intense conversation with
Vax over there to ensure where they stood, and

Keyleth vomited multiple times. But after which
the party found their way back to the Keep, where

Dr. Dranzel and his Spectacular Traveling Troupe
were drinking and expecting you to be there, in

which they could converse and try and convince you
of a little caper they've been trying to get their

head around for a while, and you seem to have the
entry to this possible windfall of money. Scanlan,

after courting this young, pixie-haired gnome--

SAM: I sort of knew in the back of my head, right?
No, I was courting her. No, it's true.

(laughter)

MATT: Was instead confronted in his bedroom by
Kaylie, who revealed herself to be Scanlan's

long-unknown daughter from many years ago, who had
trained very hard as a bard at the College of the

White Duke, in Westruun, and honed her skills with
a blade with the intent of finding you one day and

disgracing you. Thanks to Scanlan's sudden
realization, change of heart, and attempt to

connect with his lost blood, broke a bit of that
cold honed exterior, and managed to prevent a very

dangerous and possibly deadly encounter. She left
frustrated and confused, and hasn't been seen

since. The rest of you, gathering the next
morning, discussed this endeavor with Dr. Dranzel

and how they had found a home that had been long
abandoned after being purchased by a collector. A

home that you guys had ransacked a little over a
year before after finding a portal within that

led to a dragon's hoard, as the previous person
who lived there, General Krieg, was actually a

dragon who had infiltrated the Council.

LAURA: A really hot dragon. I remember thinking he
was really cute. I had a thing for General Krieg.

I was really sad when it turned out he was--

MATT: I'm sorry it worked out that way.

MATT: Yeah, that was Grog's famous rage looting.
General Krieg, Bonescythe-- Brimscythe, sorry.

They're close. Brimscythe the Dragon was
slaughtered in this endeavor, however it's been

over a year since. You guys returned to this house,
scoured it, found your way through the still

existing secret passage that led you to the
now partially collapsed cavern, which once housed

Brimscythe and his hoard. You found that the
tunnel itself, freezing cold, the rubble of the

partially collapsed cavern had been ravaged by
some sort of large clawed entity that Vex had

identified as another equally dangerous dragon
that seems to have rummaged through and found the

corpse of Brimscythe. You also found that a number
of gold coins, a bit of his hoard that had been

buried in this, were now exposed by these strange,
smooth tunnels that were carved into the rock.

Upon you, Scanlan, and Trinket inquiring there,
the rest of the party scattered. Pike and Keyleth

went to find what seemed to be the owner of the
house, now frozen in fright in a far alcove. And

the three, the rest of your group, traveling
towards the mouth of the cavern itself, before the

ground begins to rumble. Suddenly, exploding from
the rock and shale of the bottom of the cavern

floor, you guys managed to see before you, piercing
forth from the ground itself, a very, very large,

segmented, armored, worm-like entity.

SAM: Armored?

MATT: The actual hide itself is like very, very
thick.

LAURA: Super thick? Ugh!

SAM: Like with armor?

MATT: Not with armor, just this natural sense.

LAURA: When we kill it, we can make armor out of
him.

LIAM: And it was pale and icy, too, I think you
were describing?

MATT: It was darkish purple in its color and tint,
like dark blacks, purple, with rows and rows of

teeth coming out of its eyeless face. As it bursts
out of the surface, I need you all to roll

initiative.

LAURA: No!

SAM: Oh my god, right away, right away. We're just
in it. Just like that.

TRAVIS: Fuck yeah!

MATT: All right, so. 25 to 20?

TRAVIS: 20, to kill Scanlan.

(laughter)

MATT: 20 to 15?

MARISHA: 19.

SAM: That's it?

LIAM: 15.

MATT: 15 to ten?

TALIESIN: Ten.

SAM: 11.

MATT: All right, then comes ten to five?

LAURA: Nine.

MATT: And Pike, while, as she's not here, rolled
the lowest. Ashley, unfortunately, due to

scheduling, could not be here this evening. So
far, we're hoping she might show up at some point

tonight, we'll find out. But, in the meantime, I'm
going to be running Pike on my end. So, starting

the encounter, as you see this giant worm creature
through the tunnel, the three of you now walking

the other direction, you, feeling the rumble, 
turn around, holding forth your greatsword

unsheathed, you can feel the power pulsing with
each beat of your blood through your body, as a

little voice in the back of your head, stemming
from your weapon, goes, "Kill." You're up, Grog.

TRAVIS: Well, I hope you're hungry. But you have
to wait one second, we're a bit far away. Can I

travel as far as I can towards?

MATT: Speed of 50, I believe?

TRAVIS: 50.

LAURA: Oh, I said I hid at the end of the episode.
I said I hid.

MATT: Right, roll stealth.

TRAVIS: Do I have a line of sight with him, or is
the edge of that outcropping blocking it?

MATT: He would have half cover if you were to try
and like, throw your weapon at him. It'd be a plus

five to his armor class.

MARISHA: Pike and I are hiding, too.

MATT: Okay, stealth check for both of you.

TRAVIS: Could I back up three squares, so that I
could move to my left so I could get a straight

look at him?

MATT: There, you mean?

TRAVIS: Can I go one more?

MATT: That's the extent of your movement right
there, unfortunately. Unless you want to go at

this angle, there. There you go.

TRAVIS: Can I use the Javelin of Lightning?

SAM: What the fuck is that? That's a thing you
made up.

TRAVIS: Oh, yeah, I've got it. I utter the magic
word "Penelope" and I throw it and each creature

in the line, excluding me and the target, must
make a DC 13 dexterity saving throw.

MATT: Okay, there are no creatures in the line,
just the target.

TRAVIS: Just the target then.

LIAM: Did you get that in Yug'Voril?

TRAVIS: Huh?

LIAM: Yug'Voril. Is it from Yug'Voril?

TRAVIS: I don't remember, it's just in the bag.

LIAM: In Yug'Voril, at the bottom of that pit,
when he headbutted the giant.

MATT: Yup, that was in the rubble.

LIAM: Yeah! Ding!

MATT: Good memory!

TRAVIS: Can I try and throw it?

MATT: You may, go for it.

TRAVIS: 18.

MATT: 18 total? 18 just hits. So, go ahead and
roll damage for the javelin. As you rear back,

aim it with your eyes, and the frustration is
palpable from Craven Edge as you put it aside to

throw the javelin instead as it arcs into a bolt
of energy that streaks forth, slams into the hide

of the giant purple worm. Go ahead and roll
damage.

TRAVIS: 19.

MATT: 19. All righty. Great. It rears in place,
shakes itself for a second. It has no eyes, so

it's not looking in any different direction, it
just seems to be flailing in its current

location.

TRAVIS: Can I go into a rage?

MATT: Yes you may.

TRAVIS: I would like to rage.

MATT: All right. (laughs)

LAURA: Are you rolling your special dice?

MATT: As you bite your lower lip, you feel and
taste the blood begin to enter your mouth, and at

that point the heat in the back of your shoulders
and neck begins to swell up. Grog's into a rage.

That ends your turn. Keyleth, you're up.

MARISHA: Can I do, like, a nature check on this
thing to see if I can discern any type of

information on it?

MATT: Sure. Go ahead and make an intelligence
check.

MARISHA: Just straight intelligence? That's not
good. I think that is a five? Six! Six!

MATT: Six. You have no recollection of this type
of an entity in your travels. It's definitely not

natural, it's not of nature, and you've seen
various types of eyeless worm-type creatures, but

nowhere near on this scale. So, yeah. You have no
idea beyond that.

MARISHA: I'm just going to whisper to Pike, and be
like: It doesn't have any eyes! I feel like we

shouldn't move!

MATT: She goes, "Okay!" And she gets as still as
she possibly can. "It's good! Moving's not my forte."

MARISHA: Okay! I, like, hold her shoulder pads so
she doesn't clink any.

MATT: "Okay!"

MARISHA: Okay! I'm going to stay right here!

MATT: All right. So that ends your turn. Vax,
you're up. Unless you want to do something else on

your turn, is that it?

MARISHA: I'm just, I'm just going to, I don't want
to move. I'm just going to wait.

SAM: (mocking) I don't want to, I don't want to
move!

MARISHA: I don't want to move!

LIAM: Click the Boots of Haste, and I want to go
stealth, and scoot to that column past Grog, but

closer to the worm. Not that one, the next one.
Yeah. I think I can make it there.

MATT: All right. You can get there.

LIAM: Do I need to roll stealth?

MATT: You can roll stealth, yeah.

LIAM: I want to throw a dagger at it. Yeah. That
is 28.

MATT: All right. That definitely hits. However, it
is not sneak attack damage. You are hiding

definitely behind the pillar, but your footsteps.
And you get the essence as soon as you see the

creature, its head follows you across the room,
you get the sense immediately that it is not a

sight-based creature, it is definitely a
movement-based creature, and its head just follows

you as you move.

LIAM: I'll defer, but let me ask, going stealth
and rolling a 28 on stealth, the footsteps were

still enough to alert it to where I was?

MATT: Is it a natural 20?

LIAM: I didn't attack yet. No, it was a combined
28, just to go stealth.

MATT: A combined 28. Right, even so, not quite
light enough. Not with the knowledge that it was

an issue with this entity, and due to the
proximity of it, and it being a very sensitive

creature to the rock's movement, it still picks
you up.

LIAM: And I should have one attack. I should have
an attack, right? Because I did the boots, I ran

over here--

MATT: Yep, so you have an attack.

LIAM: Two.

MATT: Well, two attacks, you have offhand, so
yeah.

LIAM: Two, yeah. Two, because it was double the
speed because of the boots. All right. First one

is shit. That is 14. And the second one is-- I'm
going to do Luck on that. The second one is 20.

MATT: The second one hits. The first one
unfortunately just bounces off of its hide.

LIAM: That's not a lot. But it is seven points of
damage.

MATT: Seven points of damage, got it.

LIAM: First blood. First blood, everyone.

SAM: It's looking pretty beat up.

MATT: All right. At this point in time, the dagger
embeds itself in. You see the hilt sinks into the

hide and then vanishes in a puff of smoke as it
returns to your belt, however you can see a little

bit of black liquid pouring forth from it, and its
head has been trained on you since you moved across the

room. The worm now disappears beneath the ground.

TALIESIN: Not cool.

MATT: And you feel the ground beneath you begin to
shake, as it bursts out of the ground. That's a 20

to hit.

LIAM: 20? Can I use Evasion or no?

MATT: To reduce the damage in half if you want.
Huh? What's your AC?

LIAM: Oh, with the boots on, 18.

MATT: It rolled a 20.

LIAM: Yeah, I know. So tell me what happens.

MATT: So, as you look around you all of a sudden
the jaws start coming up out of the ground behind

you, the teeth biting into your body as you try
and wrest yourself away from its grip. You take 20

points of piercing damage.

LIAM: Oh, well, Uncanny Dodge. Right? Evasion is
for spell effects--

MATT: Right, Evasion does not help you in this
circumstance, Uncanny Dodge allows you to reduce

the damage by half. So yes, you can do that. So
you take ten damage instead. I need you to make a

dexterity saving throw.

LIAM: That's okay. All right, so. Okay. Natural
20!

MATT: As the jaws attempt to clamp around you, you
manage to just pull yourself away, tearing your

knees across the teeth, but rolling in the
opposite direction, right in the place where you

were as it bursts out of the ground just beside
you and rights itself around in that direction. As

its full body emerges now, you can see its tail
flop out of the tunnel it just made with this

giant hooked stinger on the end as it whips off in
your direction. That is going to be a 15 to hit.

TRAVIS: That'll miss.

MATT: That misses you. As the stinger swings
towards you, you manage to just duck out of the

way, your eyes trained on it in an absolute red
fury, and it just whiffs past your face.

SAM: Could've been bad, could've been bad.

MATT: That ends its turn. Scanlan, you're up.

SAM: Who's in front of me?

MATT: Right now you're next to Trinket and Vex is
behind you.

LAURA: (laughing) Don't be a dick!

SAM: I'm not going to be a dick. I brush past
Trinket so I can see the worm.

MATT: Okay, about there, you can see it from that
perspective.

SAM: Okay I hold up my cone, my Hand Cone of
Clarity, and I will cast Eyebite. Singing to it

(singing) Scanlan's eyes are biting you. Making
you very sick. Ooh, Scanlan's eyes are biting you.

Scanlan's eyes! All right, so the Eyebite refers
to my eyes. He doesn't need eyes. He doesn't need

to be able to see me, I have to be able to see
him, right? It works. Okay, so I'm going to do

Sicken.

MATT: To sicken it? All right. All right, it
rolls, this is a wisdom saving throw? It rolls an

eight. So yeah, it does not succeed on that.
Eyebite takes hold. Get this little marker on

there, on its neck, like a little-- There we go.
So as your spell completes on it, you can see its

form contracts for a second and its head hangs a
little less strong as it did previously. It

almost goes slack for a moment from the impact of
the spell affecting its physical form. All right,

so it has disadvantage on attack rolls and ability
checks, for as long as it lasts. All right, so

that's your movement, that's your action, any
bonus actions?

SAM: I will inspire Vex. With a limerick.

LAURA: I can't wait.

SAM: I once knew a bear named Trinket, and would
often tell you he stink-et, but you were appalled,

so you kicked me in the balls, and now I don't say
it, I just think it.

(laughter)

LAURA: That was wonderful!

MATT: A d10 inspiration die to you, Vex.

LAURA: Yay!

LIAM: Plus or minus?

MATT: (laughs) We'll see.

MARISHA: Am I able to take a bonus action to like
shout something out over comms?

MATT: I'll allow it, since you held your turn this
turn anyways, yeah.

MARISHA: Yeah? Everyone should try and get a
little bit so I can see you. And I can make us all fly.

LAURA: (shouting) What? You can make us fly?

MARISHA: I learned it today. But you have to be
within 30 feet of me.

LAURA: Oh, really, but I'm so far away from you.

MARISHA: You know, imagine I said it more
succinctly than this.

MATT: (laughs) That's as much as you can get out.
Percy, you're up.

TALIESIN: All right, I'm going to head in the
direction of the message I just received. So I'm

going to crawl around the bottom there.

LAURA: Ugh, I'm not going to be able to get to
her.

MATT: That's as far as you can get.

TALIESIN: That's as far as I can get, that's fine.
I'm going to take a couple shots, with the big

gun. I'm going to Bad News this. So, let's take a
shot at that guy. Yeah, that's reasonable range.

Yeah, okay. Not too close. That's not bad, 21.

MATT: 21 hits.

TALIESIN: 28 points of damage.

MATT: Okay.

TALIESIN: Quick reload, going to get one more shot
off and I'm going to take this one with the

sharpshooter effect just to see how things go.

MATT: Sure. The sharpshooter effect, you mean the
deadeye?

TALIESIN: Yep. Yeah, the deadeye. The negative
five to hit.

MATT: Oh, got you, got you, all right.

TALIESIN: 14.

MATT: 14 does not hit, unfortunately. As you load
the second round, you pull Bad News in front of

you and you go to fire, the ground actually shakes
beneath you. There's a quaking. Not sure if it's

from the creature or just the atmosphere around
you, but as you do the gun just misfires and,

well, it actually doesn't misfire, but it fires
off into one of the side elements of the cave and

you hear it ricochet off the rock.

TALIESIN: That's what I got.

MATT: All right, that's 28 damage, 28 damage is
not bad.

All right, Vex, you're up.

LAURA: Okay. Will you be able to move forward?

MARISHA: Yeah.

LAURA: Okay. I'm going to send Trinket up to that
little alcove. Keep running, no, a little

further-- a little further.

MATT: That's-- what's Trinket's movement? Is it 40?
So he can go there.

LAURA: That's as close as he can get to you.

MATT: Six, actually seven, eight. So that'd be the
full movement.

LAURA: Okay. Get him tucked into that little
side.

MATT: Trinket is now stepping onto a bit of slick
of ice and is like (unbalanced bear noises) but

seems to be okay at the moment.

LAURA: Okay. And then I move forward so I can see
him. Right there. All right. And I'm going to

Hunter's Mark him! And then I'm going to shoot my
Longbow of the Sky Sentinel at him. So that, I'm

going to shoot an arrow and it divides into three
arrows and they all turn into storm arrows. So I

roll an attack for each one of those for my first
attack.

MATT: Correct. Yep. Yep. As you release the arrow
from the actual tension of the bow, as soon as it

leaves your fingers it almost burns the tips as it
races into this arrow of pure energy. As it

divides in the middle of the air, you can see each
arrow sparking off bits of electrical power on its--

LAURA: Okay, so the first one is a 26.

MATT: Hits.

LAURA: Should I roll damage for that one?

MATT: Roll to see how many hit.

LAURA: The second one is a 29.

MATT: Hits.

LAURA: The third one is a 20.

MATT: 20 hits. Yeah, all three hit.

LIAM: This is all happening in less than six
seconds.

LAURA: 17-- 20. 23 for the first arrow.

MATT: All righty.

LAURA: Nine, ten, 11, 13. 17 for the second one.
And then 14, 15, 16...

SAM: I feel bad for this thing.

LAURA: 22. 20, what is that? 27 for the third.

MATT: Oof, all right. As each arrow slams into its
side, you can see portions of its large

chitinous, almost like armored shell crack and
break open. And you can see now these streams of

black worm blood are spilling down its side. And it
starts shaking in place now in pain.

LAURA: Okay. I'm going to shoot through my Blazing
Bowstring for my second attack.

MATT: All right.

SAM: Second attack?

LAURA: Yeah, that was just one.

MATT: Yeah, she gets that once a day.

LAURA: 25.

MATT: 25 hits.

TRAVIS: You have more dice than that dice store.

LAURA: I know, it's ridiculous. 16-- 16-- 19, and
then an additional d10. So 19 of fire damage. So

25 for the third.

MATT: 25. Oof. That is a nasty round. Well done.

LAURA: For the fourth arrow.

MATT: As this fourth arrow
slams into its side there's a burst of fire from

the impact and you can see it now. It's starting
to shriek this horrible high-pitched multi-toned

scream. All right, that ends your turn.

LAURA: And I rolled a 15 for stealth, not that it
probably matters anymore.

MATT: Nah, no, it doesn't really. All right.

LAURA: And then I stay very, very still.

MATT: Cool, so does Pike. Pike's going to follow
in Keyleth's order and spend the round just

keeping in place, very quietly. All right, top of
the round again. Grog, you're up.

TRAVIS: Oh, are we flying?

ALL: No.

TRAVIS: Fuck it! I take Craven Edge out. I hope
you're hungry. And I would like to go into a

frenzied rage.

MATT: All right.

TRAVIS: And I would like to attack, the first two
times, at the big purple dick that just came out

of the ground.

MATT: All right.

MARISHA: Hey, move down a bit so you're not in my
way.

TRAVIS: Which way?

MATT: Grog's just charging in.

TRAVIS: That's a 23?

MATT: 23 hits.

TRAVIS: 20?

MATT: 20 hits.

TRAVIS: Wow. 26?

MATT: All three hit. These are non-Great Weapon
Master, right?

TRAVIS: The third one I wanted it to be, should I
reroll since I didn't specify?

MATT: Reroll because you didn't say it, yeah.

TRAVIS: 17.

MATT: That misses, unfortunately. But the first
two do hit. Yeah, you got to mention that before

you make the attack.

TRAVIS: I do, I do. You're right. 2d6. What do
sixes look like? They're squares.

LAURA: They're squares.

(laughter)

SAM: Cubes, really.

TRAVIS: Jeez, three, eight, 16 for the first one.

MATT: All righty.

TRAVIS: And 16 for the second one.

MATT: All righty. What's the DC on the sword
effect, again? Is it 12?

TRAVIS: Oh! Yep.

MATT: All right. So it succeeds its first saving
throw and it succeeds its second saving throw. But

you do see with each strike the intent of the
sword to draw some of the strength and life force

from the target. Not really making any effect,
unfortunately. All right! Ending your turn, Grog,

that vibration you feel in the ground, now? It's
curious, because the worm itself is out of the

ground, now. What caused you to lose your shot?
You feel it grow stronger and stronger, before

suddenly, nearby, a secondary, different-looking,
but similar in size, worm comes bursting out of

the base of the cavern.

LAURA: Matthew Mercer! You're trying to kill us.

MATT: You can see now, as this bursts out, it's
similar in size, but different. This one has a

thicker body, it's a purple and white type
exterior, and you can see frozen mist is just

emanating from the outside of its open jaw.

LAURA: No, this is the one that pukes ice.

MARISHA: (laughs) Pukes ice?

LAURA: This is what made the dude frozen!

MATT: As this one rears back, opens its jaw, and a
burst of cold air and ice shards comes spraying

out of its mouth--

LAURA: Look at this cone you have.

MATT: Heading towards these-- actually, it would get
the other worm too.

LAURA: Yes! Yes! Freeze the other worm!

MATT: I need a constitution saving throw from Grog
and Vax.

LIAM: I want to do an Evasion, that's an area
effect!

MATT: Yeah.

LIAM: Yeah?

MATT: Make your constitution saving throw.

LIAM: All right. (laughs) Do I do the dex save
first, or--?

MATT: It's not a dex save. Constitution save.

LIAM: Oh, it's not an area effect? All right.
Whatever you say. Natural 20.

TRAVIS: 21.

MATT: 21. All right. Good.

TRAVIS: Saving throw, right? Constitution?

MATT: Constitution saving throw. So, read your
ability real fast, does it affect only dex saves?

LIAM: Evasion on dex save-- I've written an
abbreviated version of this. It's area of effect,

if it's like Fireball or anything that's in an
area.

MATT: Right, but I think it may specify whether or
not--

LIAM: Oh, but you're god, what do you want me to
do?

MATT: I'm just looking it up right now, give me a
second.

TRAVIS: Ooh! I have Danger Sense. I have advantage
on dexterity saving throws.

MATT: This is not dexterity. This is
constitution.

SAM: Oh, but you know what? I have really good
dexterity.

MATT: Yep, dexterity saving throw. So this does
not affect this attack. Sorry. All right, so you

both take half damage, as does the creature.

TALIESIN: That's a lot of rolling.

SAM: He's only rolling a d2. He's rolling a d2.

MATT: All right! That's 40 points of damage,
halved, that's 20 points of cold damage to each of

you, and the purple worm.

LIAM: Wait, 40 or 20?

TRAVIS: Holy shit.

LAURA: It does 40 points?!

LIAM: Can I do Uncanny-- this is a new round, can
I do Uncanny or not, yet?

MATT: It has not gotten back to your turn, so no.

LAURA: We're going to die!

TRAVIS: No, we're good! Shut up! We're fine!

MATT: All right. Now! It's Keyleth's turn.

MARISHA: Here's what I want to try and do. I want
to try and hope to god I can get everyone in here.

LIAM: Shake that hangover off, Kiki.

MARISHA: I wanted to--
oh wait, I'm trying to point the fucking-- point

the laser at the screen.

MATT: Yeah, don't point at the screen. Point it at
the actual map. That's okay.

MARISHA: I want to try and go-- five, ten, 15--
can I go through Grog? Through there?

MATT: You can try to, yeah.

LAURA: You're going to go past the worm, though!

MARISHA: Can I go there? Wait, wait, back closer
to the-- I want to be able to try and-- can I see

Scanlan and stuff, over there?

MATT: You can see Scanlan, you can see pretty much
everybody but Trinket from this perspective, and

you can't see Pike.

LAURA: Shit.

MARISHA: All right.

LAURA: Thought I was helping.

MARISHA: Everyone, I guess, who's within 30 range
of me, I'm going to do a wind blast, and we all

turn into poofy cloud versions of ourselves.

MATT: Which one is this?

MARISHA: Wind Walk. Poofy Cloud. So as I run past
Grog, I brush his shoulder, and he turns into a

mist form, and I turn into a mist form, and then I
blast it out, and everyone's mist form!

MATT: All right, cool. So while in mist form, you
guys have a flying speed of 300 feet, you have

resistance to non-magical weapons, you can only
dash.

MARISHA: Oh, you can't attack?

MATT: No. You've got to read your spell. You can
take a minute to revert your form, but as of right

now, all of you guys currently, everyone within 30
feet.

SAM: I'm not within 30 feet.

MATT: You can see within range, so you can't see
Pike. You've got to read the spell. Does not

affect Trinket because you can't see Trinket.
Doesn't affect you guys. Scanlan is just out of

range. So Vex and Scanlan, you're unaffected. You
watch half of the party turn into these gaseous

forms.

SAM: Oh my god, the worms have turned us all into
clouds!

LAURA: You've left us stranded. We're going to
die.

MARISHA: No, we're still there.

MATT: It takes a minute to revert to your actual
form to be able to do any sort of attack.

MARISHA: Man, that was going to be way cooler if
we could still...

TALIESIN: I'm going to do something insane. I've
got some plans.

MARISHA: It was a 6th-level spell.

MATT: I know.

SAM: It was so good.

MARISHA: Thanks, guys. I feel so validated.

LIAM: She just learned it yesterday!

MARISHA: I did just learn it yesterday.

MATT: Vax, it's your turn.

LIAM: And I'm made of wind?

MATT: You're made of wind. You can move. You can
dash, or you can begin to revert, if you'd like.

LIAM: I can begin to revert? So it's a minute-long
process that I have to consciously decide, and I

know this?

MATT: You get the feeling that if you want to
return, it will take you a while because you don't

really know what to do with your form.

MARISHA: We could try and get the fuck out of
here.

LIAM: I'm going to use disengage and I'm going to
fart over towards my sister and Pike.

MATT: You cannot disengage. You can only dash in
this form.

LIAM: Oh, then I'm going to dash towards my sister
and Pike.

LAURA: Pike is on the other side. Me and Scanlan.

LIAM: Oh. Scanlan and Vex, sorry.

MATT: So you move over.

SAM: Not all short people look alike.

MATT: You dash over here. That guy's going to take
an attack of opportunity on you. He's going to

have disadvantage, technically, because you all of
a sudden stopped moving and it just hears the

sound. It rolled a three. No. It whips past you
with its mouth biting at nothing.

LIAM: I want to land and then start thinking, god,
I wish I was not made of farts, and start trying

to undo whatever this is.

MATT: Okay. Ten rounds later, you will be a
physical entity.

LAURA: Ten rounds?!

MATT: A minute.

LIAM: Dispel Magic, little man!

LAURA: Okay, can I see him? Can I shoot through
him?

MATT: You can shoot through him. He'll take half
damage.

LIAM: I'm crouching!

MARISHA: We could use this to our advantage and
get the fuck away, so I don't feel like I just

wasted a 6th-level spell. Just want to say.

LIAM: Fog of war, man.

MATT: Do you have Dispel Magic, Scanlan?

SAM: That would have been great.

(laughter)

MATT: Sorry.

MARISHA: I technically do, but fuck that.

LAURA: You can float up to the ceiling and then
attack from high.

MARISHA: I did learn Dispel Magic, but--

SAM: Well, dispel your own shit.

MARISHA: No! Figure it out! Make it work for
yourselves, assholes. That was a 6th-level spell,

god damn it.

MATT: Did you make yourself mist, as well?

MARISHA: Yeah! It's ten people!

MATT: You can't cast a spell in mist form,
either.

MARISHA: We're all shit out of luck! How does that
feel?

MATT: So who's left, currently? That finishes
Vax's turn.

LIAM: Everyone who's a cloud, we're floating back
to Emon. Let's go.

TALIESIN: (singing) I can show you the world.

MARISHA: I thought we could still attack, which
would be way dope.

MATT: That would be dope, but that would be way
too powerful a spell for sixth level. This is more

of a means of travel spell, or a means of escape
spell.

LIAM: Let's solve the problem

LAURA: But half of the party is still not able to
escape.

MARISHA: If you don't move, they'll go away.

MATT: This creature, now, having been hit by the
terrifying Eyebite spell, its insides churning and

the impact from damage it's taken, it's looking
like it had a harsh round last turn. As all of the

movement suddenly (poof) vanishes and there's no
general movement, the last thing it recalls that

was in its vicinity and still shifting with a
heartbeat across the ground is you, Scanlan.

(impact noise) It bursts out of the ground right
in front of you. It brings its jaw down over the

top, with disadvantage. That's a natural 20, so
thank god it has disadvantage. 19.

SAM: I'm going to use Cutting Words to try and not
have it hit me.

MATT: Okay.

SAM: I'll sing, (singing) do you really want to
hurt me? Do you really want to bite my body? Okay,

that taunts him.

MATT: Okay, go ahead and roll a d10 to reduce that
from the attack.

SAM: A d10. this one? Wait, that's yours; why am I
doing yours?

MATT: That's a 19 plus nine. This is 28 is what it
rolled total.

SAM: 28 is what it rolled total?!

MATT: It rolled a 19 on the dice.

SAM: Oh fuck, even if I rolled a ten, I couldn't
do anything. I rolled a three.

MATT: Okay, so as you're singing this, its jaw
comes down on you (slamming sound), bites down

painfully onto Scanlan for-- that's the wrong
dice--

TALIESIN: This could go worse.

MARISHA: Shut up, Taliesin.

MATT: 19 points of piercing damage. And I need you
to go ahead and make a dexterity saving throw.

SAM: I'm great at those. Dexterity saving throw.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, sure, sure, that's a five.

MATT: Those of you who are watching, you see as
the mouth (impact sound) chomps down on Scanlan

and as it pulls away, Scanlan is nowhere in sight,
having been swallowed by the purple worm.

TALIESIN: Oh, shit!

MATT: You are blinded and restrained, and yeah.
You just see darkness and you feel the muscles

constricting as you're forced down its throat. As
your feet splash into what seems to be some sort

of highly acidic liquid that resides in the inside
of its body.

SAM: Tell me this, Dungeon Master. Earlier when I
had done my Eyebite thing, I had my cone up here.

When he grabbed me was the cone still close to my
mouth?

MATT: Sure, we'll say that. However, I do need you
to make a concentration check because of the

damage you sustained on this.

SAM: Okay. Concentration check. Concentration?
I've never rolled for concentration. Oh wait!

MATT: I know, I'm trying to keep up on that more
now.

SAM: I have advantage on spell concentration.

MATT: Because of your feat that you took.

SAM: Well, that wasn't good either. So one was a
five and one was a ten. Do I add anything to that?

MATT: All right so, it's a constitution saving
throw and half the damage you took. So you're

trying to beat a nine.

SAM: Constitution. So 12.

MATT: So 12. So yes, you succeed. So you
currently, even though you're constrained, you're

still maintaining your Eyebite spell against the
purple worm.

SAM: Okay.

MATT: All right. So that ends the worm's turn.
Scanlan, it is now your turn.

SAM: Great. I don't want be in here anymore.

MATT: Correct.

SAM: Can I look around? It's dark. It seems cozy.
Seems nicer than outside right now, actually. I

dip my finger in the acid. Ooo!

MATT: (sizzling sound) Not fun, not fun.

SAM: It's not good. So I'm going to make him barf
me up.

MARISHA: Oh that's right, it was sick, right?

MATT: It's sickened currently by the spell effect
you put, yeah.

SAM; I'm going to cast, at level five,
Thunderwave. With my Hand Cone of Clarity up in my

grill. I'm going to explode him from the inside.

MATT: All right, Thunderwave. So at fifth level,
that would be an additional 4d8. That is 6d8

thunder damage.

TRAVIS: Holy shit.

SAM: Where's the d8s?

MATT: It makes a constitution saving throw.

TRAVIS: He's inside. Come on, Armageddon this
motherfucker.

MATT: That is a 16 on the saving throw.

SAM: 19 is my save.

MATT: So, 6d8.

SAM: What's that? I've already lost count. 15 plus
seven. Whatever that is.

MATT: 22 points of--

SAM: Wait 6d8, yeah okay.

MATT: Okay. It (impact sound) booms from the
inside and you can see a central part of the worm

(muffled boom) billow out like a cartoon as this
bit of smoke emanates from its mouth. Just the

sheer force of it forces you a little ways up its
throat, but not enough to jettison yourself out of

its body. Its muscles are too strong and you feel
like you need to do a little more damage to it

from the inside to be able to escape.

SAM: Okay. But it did hurt it, yes?

MATT: It hurt it, yeah. It took some damage. And
at this point as well, you (grunt) feel

your body being pulled inward and crushed by the
muscles. Percy. You're up, Mr. Mistform.

TALIESIN: Okay. These creatures have no eyes.

MATT: Correct.

TALIESIN: I'm made of smoke.

MATT: (affirmative sound)

TALIESIN: (sighs) Okay.

TRAVIS: Yes. Well established.

TALIESIN: As long as we're all clear here what's
going on, that's fine. And I can just dash?

MATT: That's all you can do. Or begin to try and
revert, which will take ten rounds.

TALIESIN: Well, and can I still move around and do
things while I'm trying to revert or is it--

Reverting. Am I just stuck reverting?

MATT: You know, that's a good question.

TALIESIN: Can I just make the decision?

MATT: I think you can still move around, you just
think you have to have concentration towards it,

I'll have to--

TALIESIN: I'm going to have my concentration on
reverting. But in the meantime, I'm going to--

MATT: You can use your action to begin to revert
your form, yeah.

TALIESIN: I have to use my action?

MATT: However, nope! Reverting takes a minute,
during which time a creature is incapacitated and

can't move.

TALIESIN: (sputtering)

MATT: So yeah. So currently--

MARISHA: Yeah he's really married to this one.

MATT: It took me ten seconds to read it!

LIAM: So to get out of this form, we have to stop
and like meditate in one position for a full

minute. What does it dissipate without doing that?
How long does it take?

MATT: Eight hours.

LIAM: Eight hours, good.

MARISHA: Wait, what? No, no, no! One-- Oh no,
yeah, you're right.

SAM: Can't you just kill it? Wait a second, hold
on a second.

MARISHA: Yeah, can I not kill it at all? I can't
kill it?

MATT: Not if you're in wind form, no.

MARISHA: Question. Can I switch to an animal form?

MATT: You cannot take any other action aside from
dash or reverting when in this form.

TALIESIN: Can I dash into one of the creatures?

MARISHA: Why would you do that?

MATT: I mean, you could try to. You would surround
it with smoke.

LAURA: You're made of wind!

TALIESIN: It wouldn't know that I was there? It
wouldn't--

TRAVIS: You could either dispel it or you could
flee.

TALIESIN: Okay, well I had the thought of maybe I
could attempt to get them to attack each other.

MATT: I mean, that can be attempted. How are you
going to do that? No, you can't talk in this form.

What are you trying to do?

TALIESIN: I'm attempting to tap them to get them
to think that there's something happening where

the worms are to get them to attack.

SAM: Like a Three Stooges thing.

MATT: Okay, so you swirl this way as a dash and
attempt to make an impact. I'll say go ahead and

make a strength check.

TALIESIN: Really?

MATT: Yes. With disadvantage and a serious
penalty. Because you're mist. Go for it.

TALIESIN: Natural 20, Motherfucker!

MATT: Okay, roll again, because it's with
disadvantage.

TALIESIN: (screams)

(laughter)

LIAM: Here comes the one.

TALIESIN: Baby, I know we've been arguing a lot
lately. But I want you to know I take it all back,

I take it all back. I'm going to buy you something
so nice. I'm going to buy you ice cream. I'm going

to buy you good ice cream! I'm going to go to
Scoops. Three, motherfucker.

(laughter)

TALIESIN: Which brings me to four.

MATT: All right. As the coldish mist of Percy
batters itself helplessly and ineffective against

the body of the giant frost worm creature, seeming
to no effect as it's now keeping itself attentive

on what is nearby and within its range of motion.

TALIESIN: I will use an action surge and start
turning back into a normal human then.

MATT: Well, you can continue to use your movement;
you only moved a short bit.

TALIESIN: Oh, I'm going to move behind it then.
That way. No, I mean far away from it. And then

I'm going to use an action surge and start
meditating on it.

MATT: Okay, it does attempt to take an attack of
opportunity as it just feels you rush by. Nah, it

misses. Rolled a two.

TALIESIN: That's what it feels like,
motherfucker.

MATT: All right. So, that end your turn?

TALIESIN: Yeah that ended it.

MATT: All right, Vex, you're up.

LAURA: Cool.

SAM: Vex, you and me babe, all we got to do is
last ten rounds. Of course, all you hear is

(muffled cries).

LAURA: I know, I've got to save you!

TALIESIN: Trinket's there too.

LAURA: I know.

MATT: Oh, I get to make the save to see if the
Eyebite maintains itself. That would be a-- no, it

rolled a ten and it's minus two on its wisdom
save. So it still has disadvantage on its attacks.

LAURA: Okay, all right. Are there any stalactites
coming from the ceiling?

MATT: There are, actually. There's a number of
them. Just in this general vicinity there's a

whole mess of them up above from just the natural
formation of it.

LAURA: Okay, I'm going to shoot Conjure Barrage at
the ceiling and try to create noise away from us.

MATT: Whereabouts?

LAURA: How about towards the ceiling above the
frost worm?

MATT: Over there? Okay. All right, so, okay. The
frost worm is in the way to hit that angle, so you

may have to move to do so.

LAURA: Which way could I shoot that he would not
be in the way?

MATT: You have to probably move this way to get
around him just to hit him at this angle just

because it's such a large entity.

LAURA: Huh? God, I don't know. I mean.

MATT: What you got?

LAURA: I'm going to move as quietly as I can
around towards that little crevice.

MATT: Go ahead and make a general dexterity
check.

LAURA: Just add my dexterity to it? 17?

MATT: 17? Okay. As you move past, stepping as
gingerly as you can, you can see it slap; it moves

its face in the direction of where you're going,
but you just manage to move beyond where it

thought you were, and it misses you as you move
by. So now you have visual on it.

LAURA: Okay. Now I want to shoot Conjure Barrage
at the ceiling above the frost one.

MATT: Okay. Conjure Barrage up here. Go ahead and
roll damage.

LAURA: Okay. That is 3d8, I guess. 14 plus five.
What's 14 plus five? 19.

MATT: 19 damage? All right. And with that, you
release a blasting torrent of arrows at the

ceiling in this giant cone blast. It strikes into
the ceiling through the force of the magical bow

that you're holding. You can see a number of rocks
in bits and pieces begin to chip off, and a few

small stalactites crack and plummet downward. I
need a dex save from Grog and Keyleth.

MARISHA: Dex save?

MATT: Dex save.

LIAM: We still take damage in this form, right?

MATT: You do. You just take half damage from
non-magical sources.

MARISHA: Regular dexterity save or do we get
advantage because we're misty?

MATT: You have resistance to non-magical weapons.

MARISHA: Do we have advantage?

MATT: No. You take half damage because you're
misty.

MARISHA: I don't think I made my dexterity check.

MATT: What did you roll?

MARISHA: A two.

TRAVIS: I have advantage. Danger sense. Dexterity
saving throws. Total of 20.

MATT: There you go. All right, so that is a total
of seven damage to Keyleth, halved to four because

you're in mist form. Seven damage to the frost
worm.

LAURA: Seven damage because of the stalactites?

MATT: Yep. They fell on it. Four damage to you.

LAURA: I'm going to look over at Trinket, and I'm
going to go--

MATT: Actually, no damage to you because you
completely dodged out of the way.

LAURA: I'm going to go like this to Trinket, and
I'm going to shoot another arrow. I can't do the

same thing. I'm going to shoot an arrow at the
ceiling right above the frost thing, and then I'm

going to use my bonus action to hide.

MATT: Okay.

LAURA: Okay. Oh, god. That didn't do any-- Well, I
was hitting a stalactite, which is totally still,

so it was 13?

MATT: 13? Because of your half-elf eyes, able to
see in this dark interior of the cavern, I'd say

yes, that hits. Barely.

LAURA: So just a regular d8. Yep. 11.

MATT: 11 damage, all right. 11 damage. It falls. Yeah,
it does not make its resistance to the fall, so

the stalactite falls. Larger than the previous
ones that were knocked out by the barrage that

loosened it up. This one crumbles, slamming into
the head of the frost worm for three points of

bludgeoning damage. All right.

LAURA: And then I stealth for 21 points of
stealth.

MATT: Okay, good to know. All right. Ending your
turn, it's now Pike. Pike, who currently is

confused by the circumstances that have currently
happened. She steps out. She's not mist. She steps out.

LAURA: Why would you do that?! Why would you do
that? You're going to kill her.

TRAVIS: She would know better than that!

LAURA: She would hide!

LIAM: She could be our saving grace. Let the
man--

SAM: She's the only one who's got arms and legs
right now.

MATT: Keyleth left the alcove after saying stay
still, she saw a few individuals turn to mist on

the outside. She's very worried and confused by
the circumstances.

LAURA: I'm sorry, I didn't shoot an arrow. I just
realized I didn't shoot an arrow at his worm and I

meant to, and I'm sorry.

SAM: What worm? My worm?

LAURA: The one that you're in.

SAM: You could have hit me! It's okay. Don't
worry.

MATT: Pike comes around the corner. "Guys? What's
happening?" And all she sees is you disappear into

the shadows on the side, Trinket being very quiet,
and mist swirling in the space around as these two

giant worms (growls) as parts of the cavern are
collapsing into it.

LAURA: Can I do that to her?

MATT: She doesn't see you do it because you're
hidden. No, she doesn't see you. She doesn't roll

high enough perception. Right now, she feels alone
and doesn't understand what she can possibly do in

this. She doesn't have any indication of what to
do in the circumstance, so she is going to--

TRAVIS: Does Pike have Dispel Magic?

MATT: She does.

SAM: She doesn't even know--

MATT: She doesn't know what's happening. She's
going to cast Flame Strike, 5th-level spell. It's

a ten-foot radius. She's going to blast this one
right here, which is the one she sees now closest

to her proximity and being ice-based. So that's
8d6 radiant damage.

SAM: Hey! Nice job, Pike!

MATT: 32 points of fire damage. Does not make its
save. Suddenly from the ground, you see the rocks

shake and lift for a second before a beam of
divine fire (explosion) comes bursting out of the

ground in a ten-foot radius around this worm.
However, I do need a dexterity saving throw from

both Grog and Keyleth.

TRAVIS: Okay.

LIAM: Keep your head in the game!

TRAVIS: 18.

MARISHA: What? Shut up, Liam.

LIAM: Get it. Get it, girl, get it.

MARISHA: 16.

MATT: 16? So that's going to be 32 damage to that.
That's going to be 16 damage to you, Grog, and 32

damage to you, Keyleth.

MARISHA: All right, 32.

MATT: Fire and radiant damage. As she just sees
mist in the air around the frost worm and has no

indication of exactly what happened. However, the
frost worm did take it as well. That's going to

end her turn as she isn't quite sure what to do at
that point. That brings us to the top of the round, Grog.

TRAVIS: What do I--? I can't leave.

LAURA: Just back away from it.

TRAVIS: I'll just back up to the tunnel leading
out of the-- yeah.

MATT: Okay.

All right, that brings us to--

TRAVIS: Oh, and I'd like to start to revert, if I
could.

MATT: Okay. You'll be there for a minute
doing so. You can't move any further. You can't

move, you're just sitting there focusing on--
incapacitated.

TRAVIS: No, I don't start to revert.

MATT: Okay. All right, that completes your turn.
Now we come to the frost worm's turn. The frost

worm, first and foremost, it gets its frost breath
back. It turns this way, burrows underneath, and,

seeing all the movement to this side, goes ahead
and unleashes a secondary frost breath in this

direction. That will only affect the purple worm
and Vax. I need you guys to make constitution

saving throws.

LIAM: And I can't remember, Evasion has nothing to
do with this?

MATT: Correct.

LIAM: Okay, I'm going to use Luck. My last Luck.
That's not good. So constitution save?

MATT: Correct.

LIAM: Seven.

MATT: Seven? Nope. Purple worm also does not make
it, so that'll be to both of you...

LAURA: So obviously these worms don't even care
about each other at all.

MATT: No. Seemingly, in this moment you see now,
there is not a kinship between them. If anything,

they both arrived due to feeling the same movement
and one is currently now attacking whatever is

large and in the area that it doesn't recognise
the center movement of.

MARISHA: Does that mean we could just get them
fighting each other?

LAURA: That is what I'm thinking, we could get
them to fight.

MATT: 36 points of cold damage to you. 36 points
to the purple worm.

SAM: That halved?

MATT: No, it is magical damage, not blunt damage,
so you just take it. Especially as mist, cold is

bad as mist. All right, so with that, the
purple--

SAM: Wait. Doesn't my worm take it too?

MATT: He did. Both of them are still there.

SAM: Still alive?

MATT: Yeah. Looking a little rough, but it's still
alive. All right, that ends its turn. Now it's

Keyleth's turn.

MARISHA: Okay, here's my question.

MATT: Yep?

TRAVIS: Probably no.

MARISHA: I know.

(laughter)

SAM: Can I juggle while I'm a mist?

MATT: If you wanted to, because it is your spell
that you cast, even though it's technically not

concentration--

MARISHA: I will say, we all failed in reading it,
also--

SAM: Don't do this, don't do this!

TALIESIN: (laughs) Can't win.

LAURA: It's also what? What does it say?

MARISHA: Nothing.

TALIESIN: I'll say it if it makes you feel
better?

LIAM: Why don't we let him say what he was going
to say?

MATT: What were you going to say?

MARISHA: Nothing.

MATT: No, what's up?

MARISHA: I'm afraid now.

TALIESIN: As you should be. You're defying god.

SAM: What were you going to say, Matt?

MARISHA: Yeah, what were you going to say?
(laughs) I like that question.

LAURA: Yeah, right? Since you cast it, you could
break your concentration?

MATT: I'm saying, because you cast a spell that
wasn't a concentration spell, if it was a positive

effect, which it technically is, and you did not
want it, you could cancel the spell. I'd let you

do that. If you wanted to. What did I not read?

MARISHA: We all failed in reading it.

TALIESIN: Casting time.

MATT: One action.

TALIESIN: No.

TALIESIN and MARISHA: One minute.

MATT: It says one action on my thing.

MARISHA: It says one action on yours? It says one
minute on mine.

MATT: Does it?

MARISHA: Yes, it does.

MATT: Thank you, Fight Club Five.

MARISHA: No, it's different. It says casting time
one minute.

MATT: Let's see what the Player's Handbook says.

TALIESIN: Consult the book.

LAURA: It doesn't matter, it already happened.

MARISHA: It already happened, so it doesn't
matter.

TRAVIS: Shouldn't there be an ad for Gilmore's
Glorious Goods right about now?

MARISHA: Yeah, it's already happened, we're already
committed.

MATT: In the Player's Handbook, Wind Walk is one
minute, you're right.

MARISHA: One minute. So Fight Club failed.

MATT: Fight Club Five failed.

SAM: This is a reverse ad for Fight Club Five.

MATT: Or I have to update it. Either way. No, It
might have been fixed since, I've just got to update

it. All right. Well, anyway. In a bit of druidic
inspiration, you manage to, very quickly, for the

first time--

MARISHA: I mean, I'm still willing to commit to
it. It's fine.

MATT: Being as an Air Ashari, this is your realm
of expertise, and your first time using it, you

were so excited that you managed to accelerate the
casting of the spell, regardless of the situation

it may have created, so, what do you want to do?

MARISHA: So I accelerated the casting of the
spell.

LAURA: So you can cancel it if you feel like
canceling it.

SAM: If you want to.

LAURA: Some people's brothers in the room are at a
really low health level right now. I don't know

who we're talking about, but some people's
brothers--

MARISHA: Are you giving me an out because you feel
bad? Because if you're giving me an out--

MATT: No, because technically it shouldn't have
happened, because it was a one-minute casting

time. There are many things in that spell that
were not read, by the caster, so I'm giving you

the opportunity to correct the mistake, if you
wish not to take it, you can.

TALIESIN: I read the card too, I didn't see it.

MARISHA: He did read the card too, and we all
thought it was a good idea.

MATT: This was a very hard and valuable lesson for
casters.

LAURA: We're in the middle of a battle.

MARISHA: (laughing) For my own shame. All right
fine, I'll drop the spell 'cause I feel really bad

about it. But on my way down, okay, here's my
question, because I want to make these fuckers

fight each other. So, is there loose rock along
the edge of the wall?

LAURA: I dropped stalactites on them. So yeah,
there's lots of loose rock.

MATT: Yeah. And there's rubble on the ground next
to it from where the original cave-in happened

MARISHA: Okay, so as I'm dropping the spell--

MATT: All of you who are mist form now revert,
and you fall about five to ten feet and catch

yourself on the ground, no harm no foul.

MARISHA: As I revert back can I slide down that
wall to create some--

MATT: Did you want to move first over here to do
it?

MARISHA: Yeah.

MATT: So you shift over, you drop the spell.

MARISHA: Uh-huh, I drop the spell, and as I drop
the spell I want to grab some wall and bring it

down to make a big vibration, right in between
these two motherfuckers.

MATT: Okay. Make a strength check.

MARISHA: Oh, jeez Louise. Oh, that's not too bad.
It's not a saving throw.

MATT: Correct. Just a strength check; add your
strength modifier.

MARISHA: 18?

MATT: 18. All right. So, as you slide down, you
grab onto some of the loose rock and (rockslide)

they come tumbling down as you slide down. So you
land here, at the base of the two worms, and rocks

tumble around you at the base of the cave-in. And
you get the sensation that you may have made a

decent bit of racket right around your feet.

MARISHA: Uh-huh. Do I have any movement?

MATT: I'd say you have half your movement.

MARISHA: Oh, Jesus Christ. Can I just tiptoe
backwards towards Percy? Or should I-- You know

what? I'm going to stay. I'm just going to stay
right there. Is that even worse of a decision?

MATT: I don't know. What do you want to do?

MARISHA: I'm just going to-- up against the wall.
And not move.

MATT: Okay. You're going to Doctor Grant this.

MARISHA: I'm going to Doctor Grant it.

MATT: Got it. Okay. Keyleth, that ends your turn,
Vax, you're up. You now have your physical form

again.

LIAM: Okay. I look around really fast, run up to
my sister, give her a giant hug, and (magic sound)

Dimension Door over to where Grog is.

SAM: You can Dimension Door; I keep forgetting
that!

MATT: So as you rush over and grab onto her, you
both (poof!) in a Nightcrawler-esque poof of

smoke, as it settles, you are both no longer
there, as-- What's the range on the Dimension Door?

LIAM: Oh, it's so far, it's like 500 feet I
believe. I'll find it.

MATT: I believe it is. Dimension Door, yeah, it's
fine. 300 feet, you're fine. You guys appear over

by Grog now.

LAURA: Is that the edge of a cliff over on that
side?

MATT: It goes right to the edge, right there, and
this is where it would go down the side of a

giant, icy mountain. You guys are at the very,
very top of a very cold, cragulous part of the

Cliffkeep Mountains.

LAURA: Got it.

LIAM: I'm hasted; do I have one or two attacks at
this point?

MATT: You have one attack right now.

LIAM: One attack? Okay.

MATT: You went up and did your action already.

LIAM: Action. Okay. Well then, I'm going to throw
a dagger at the back of the frost one.

MATT: Okay. What's the range on your dagger?

LIAM: It's 60 feet, Sharpshooter, no
disadvantage.

MATT: 60 feet. Just misses. You go (knife sound)
and it just tumbles, scrapes across the ground,

stops at the base of the worm, and then vanishes.
All right, that ends your turn. Now it is this

guy's turn. At the top of his turn, Scanlan, you--
all right.

SAM: I'm in a nice womb.

MATT: You take...

TRAVIS: Uh-oh.

TALIESIN: All the damage.

TRAVIS: He grimaced. Still rolling.

MATT: 23 points of acid damage as it begins to
digest you from the inside.

SAM: Aren't I immune to acid damage?

MATT: Are you?

SAM: Because of the feast?

MATT: No, poison.

SAM: Isn't that the same thing?

MATT: No.

(laughter)

MATT: All right. So. The--

LAURA: Somebody's got something of Acid
Resistance, though. Somebody has an item.

LIAM: I had armor and I gave it to someone, I
don't have it anymore.

MATT: As the frost worm and the purple worm are
now clashing in this space, they both turn,

hearing the sound. Now, the frost damage that had
impacted the purple worm last turn, let's see if

it-- Nope! It's going to retaliate for that, it's
going to attempt to make a bite attack against the

frost worm. That is going to be a 12, that is
going to miss. However, hearing the noise, it's

going to make a tail attack at the direction that
Keyleth is-- That's a natural one. As it arcs

through, it (impact) right next to your head and
then pulls out of the rubble. The rock to your

left is now cracked and broken with a giant hole
where the stinger had placed itself.

MARISHA: I hold my breath.

MATT: Yeah. Disadvantage on those attacks from
that Eyebite is really bad. So that's been very

helpful from Scanlan's point. By the way, Scanlan,
make another concentration check because of the--

SAM: Concentration check.

Yeah. Yeah, I'm okay. 18 and 19.

MATT: Yeah, you're fine. Okay. That ends the
purple worm's turn, it's going to stay right

there. Actually, no. It's going to burrow away, as
currently it's made its attacks. It's going to

burrow into the ground, and is currently not
within anyone's visual range.

LAURA: I have it Hunter's Marked, can I feel it?

MATT: You can sense that it's underneath the
ground, somewhere in this cavern.

LAURA: Okay.

MATT: That brings us to Scanlan.

SAM: It's going down.

MATT: It's going through the ground, you feel it
moving around.

TALIESIN: Shake it, shake it, shake it.

SAM: So it has poison, right? It's poisoned me--
Oh, it has acid.

MATT: Yeah. It's acid. You're feeling yourself
digest within its body.

SAM: Can I make an intelligence check to see if I
know anything about these creatures?

MATT: You can if you'd like to, from the inside of
its body, yeah, go ahead.

SAM: Is that my action? No, it's...

MATT: No, no, no, I'll let you do it because
you've been very close and personal with it.

TALIESIN: You've had a lot of time to think.

SAM: Specifically what I'm trying to remember from
my encounters in the past is if it has any

resistance to poison damage.

MATT: Go for it.

SAM: What am I doing? Intelligence?

MATT: Intelligence. Add your intelligence
modifier.

SAM: 16. 16.

MATT: 16, okay. You've heard of these types of
entities before. You're uncertain whether or not

it has a resistance to poison, per se. You get the
sensation probably, based on the fact that it uses

poison, you would think so, but nothing else about
its body seems to be poison-related or of the

essence of poison.

SAM: But it does use poison?

MATT: As part of its tail. The stinger you saw it
use earlier does seem to have some--

SAM: Oh, gotcha. Okay, so it probably does have
poison resistance. Okay.

MATT: You don't know. But you do know, also, that
if you were able to probably do enough damage from

the inside, it would probably throw you back up.
You also get the sense that since you're currently

underground, now would be a bad time to do that.

SAM: Well, I'm in a tunnel, right?

MATT: As far as you know, yeah.

LAURA: There could be other worms around.

SAM: He disappeared down-- well, I don't know
anything! Okay, all right, I can feel him moving,

so I don't know where I am anymore. So I don't
want to Dimension Door out, because I don't know

where I'd end up. So instead I will cast Stinking
Cloud inside-- No, no, no! No. No, no. Cancel!

Belay that order! Shit! Because I think he's
immune to poison, so I'm not going to do that. I'm

going to-- Fuck! There's nothing I can do!

LAURA: Can you take a healing potion in case he
starts to digest you some more?

SAM: (strained) I'm like this right now. I can't
do anything.

LAURA: Can you go like that, and get a healing
potion and (mumbled) go like that?

SAM: I am My Left Foot. Yeah, I can't reach a
wand. I don't want to get rid of--

MATT: You could Dimension Door, in theory.

SAM: But I don't know where I'd end up?

MATT: As part of the spell you can either
visualize a place you can see, or one you can

describe by stating distance and direction. So
you've already been inside the room, you know what

it looks like, so if you think you're somewhat
close by--

SAM: So even if I've moved since I saw it last, I
can still Dimension Door to where I think--?

MATT: In theory, yeah.

SAM: Okay, then I will do that. I will do that.

MATT: Okay. Where do you want to appear within the
room?

SAM: I want to appear where Vex was before.

MATT: Okay. So, you--

LAURA: No, I was further over.

MATT: He didn't see that. Last thing he saw was
you were right next to him before he got eaten. So

you disappear from the inside of its stomach and
appear in a puff of smoke.

SAM: Goo! Goo all over me! Ew! Oh, and then I
see-- I've seen the other worm before, right?

MATT: Briefly, before you were swallowed, yes.

SAM: And I get my bearings, and I can see Pike, I
can see Trinket.

MARISHA: You also see me against a wall right next
to you.

SAM: So I will shake it off, I will inspire
Keyleth and say, (singing) I only want to see you

slicing up that purple worm!

ALL: (singing) Purple worm! Purple worm!

SAM: Ooh! Okay, that's good.

MATT: d10 inspiration die to you, Keyleth.

MARISHA: I love that song!

MATT: Ends your turn, Scanlan. Percy, you're up.
You just caught yourself on the ground on the far

end, by the tunnel.

TALIESIN: I want to hold my turn until the other
worm returns.

MATT: Hold your action, you mean? So you want to
move anywhere or are you going to stay where you are?

TALIESIN: Not going to move anywhere, just going
to stay right there.

MATT: All right. Cool. That ends Percy's turn as
he's holding his action until it returns. Vex,

you're up.

LAURA: I'm going to shoot from my Blazing
Bowstring at the icy worm.

MATT: That's your second and final use this day.

LAURA: Yeah, I know. 17?

MATT: 17 unfortunately misses. Your flaming arrow
streaks off the darkness of the cavern and just

passes it before it slams against the far cave wall.

LAURA: Balls, balls, balls! So I'm going to
shoot-- Nope, not going to do that. I'm going to

shoot a regular old arrow at him!

MATT: Do it! Hey, those are still helpful.

LAURA: And it doesn't do anything. It goes right
past him, and hits the wall, and he looks towards

the wall.

MATT: An arrow isn't a very hefty thing when it's
by itself hitting stonework. It makes a noise, you

can barely make out, we'll see if it's enough to
distract it. Are you going to stay where you are?

LAURA: Oh, I could have used my inspiration. I
should have used it on the Blazing Bowstring one.

SAM: Hey man, whatever.

MATT: What are you going to do? Are you going to
move? Do you want Trinket to move? Are you going

to stay where you are?

LAURA: Everybody's staying!

MATT: Okay, gotcha. All right, Pike, now, seeing
everyone revert, and seeing this kind of awkward

situation of these creatures moving about is going
to-- Yeah, and-- She can't see you because you're

on the other side of the wall.

LAURA: Can I use my bonus action to hide?

MATT: Sure.

LAURA: I do that!

MATT: I would recommend moving to one side of the
cavern or the other, because right now you're

still out in the open. It's kind of hard to hide
if you have nowhere to hide. But you also

get the feeling that these creatures-- being
visually hidden is not affecting it at all.

LAURA: Doesn't matter? Then I don't do anything!

MATT: All right. So you stay still. Pike stands
still, figuring that it was helpful last time but

feeling bad for accidentally-- now seeing the mist
reverting to her friends-- that she blasted them

on the previous round. Let's see. She didn't
realized in the moment that you guys turned into

mist while she was in the corner.

TRAVIS: It's all right. I've had worse.

MATT: I'm pretty sure she has another 5th-level
spell, and this would be the last of them. She's

going to go ahead and Flame Strike again on the
frost worm. This time centering it around there,

so the ten-foot radius only hits the worm and
doesn't see any allies nearby. So that will be

8d6. 33 points of damage.

LAURA: Go, Pike!

MATT: Natural 20 on the save, though, so it
takes half the damage.

LAURA: Damn you! Dick.

MATT: 17 points to the frost worm. All right, Pike
casts that and then stays perfectly still in space,

she still has some motion and some speech to it,
but her feet are planted firmly on the ground.

Hopefully that's enough. And that finishes her
turn. Back to the top: Grog.

TRAVIS: Did you hold your action?

TALIESIN: I held my action

TRAVIS: Until when?

TALIESIN: Until the other worm returns.

TRAVIS: I'll do the same thing.

MATT: Okay. The frost worm, it's now its turn. It
does not get its frost breath. However--

TALIESIN: There's a rock slide to its right.

MATT: It is! There is a rock slide. That Keyleth
is standing in. Thank you for the reminder.

TALIESIN: Damn it! Sorry.

MARISHA: Thanks for that.

MATT: It's going to turn around. You can see now,
its tail emerges, and it's going to arc up and try

and bite and slam in your direction with both sides
of its body at once. This tail does not have a

stinger on it, but it is still a giant bludgeoning
implement. First attack is going to be a 19 to hit?

MARISHA: Yeah.

MATT: Next one is going to be a 16 to hit.

MARISHA: No.

MATT: All right, so the tail slams on the ground
next to you, estimating your position and failing

and just hitting the rocks that you had slid down.
However, it does bite down with its open, icy

jaws. You take 17 points of piercing damage, as
well as an additional six points of cold damage.

MARISHA: Bringing it to a total of 22?

MATT: 22, yeah.

TALIESIN: Sorry.

MARISHA: I deserved that.

TALIESIN: We live in a cold, cold world. No one
deserves anything.

MATT: Let's see if it makes any sort of perception
check. Okay, cool. That ends its turn. It's now

Keyleth's turn.

MARISHA: So does it know that I'm there since it
just took a big chunk out of me?

MATT: It senses that it impacted something and
something that reacted and tasted like it had been

bitten, so you get the sense that it knows 
you're there.

MARISHA: All right. I'm in arm's length of it,
right?

MATT: You are.

MARISHA: I'm going to reach out and cast Blight on
it.

MATT: Okay.

TALIESIN: You touch me when you're trying to touch
the worm. I don't know how--

MATT: Cast Blight on Taliesin! All right.
Constitution saving throw. What's the DC on that?

MARISHA: 18.

MATT: 18. It does not make it. 16. So 8d8 necrotic
damage to it.

SAM: Necrotic damage? Best kind.

MARISHA: Oh, jeez. What was that? Seven. Seven
plus five. Seven, eight, 13, 16, and then another

12. Where was I at? 18. Oh, so 28, 32, 33 points.

MATT: 33 points of necrotic damage to the frost
worm. As you reach out with your hand and grasp it, you

can see now its icy white exterior all of a sudden
shudders in place and you can see small cracks of

black veins begin to spring out from your hands
into its body. Its frozen breath all of a sudden

thaws briefly into a dripping drool as it is
stunned momentarily, and it pulls away, wrestling

itself from your grasp. It did not enjoy that at
all. So that's your action.

MARISHA: I'm going to once again not move. Can I
go ahead and cast Healing Word on myself?

MATT: As a bonus action? I don't see why not.

MARISHA: Nine, total. That does help.

MATT: That ends your turn, Keyleth. Vax, you're
up.

LIAM: All right. I want to see if I can use the
haste to do double distance to get behind Pike in

that little alcove. If I can't go that far, I'll
use dash to get behind her.

MATT: You could. You can get behind her.

LIAM: Without the dash?

MATT: Yeah, because of your haste, you can move 60
feet.

LIAM: I'm standing right behind her and I say,
Pike, I'm a little banged up. Dagger, dagger, dagger.

MATT: Okay, go for it. It is just-- or no, it's
within 30 feet.

LIAM: 17 for the first. 21 for the second.

MATT: Hits, hits.

LIAM: 18 for the third.

MATT: All three hit.

LAURA: Is it sneak attack because Keyleth's
standing right next to it?

LIAM: All right, so first one is four. This is
doubled, so that's 15 plus... 16, 21, 25, 28, 36

for the first.

MATT: All right.

LIAM: Second one is nine, and the third one is
ten.

TALIESIN: Damn.

MATT: All right, as your barrage of blades
(spinning noises) go spinning right over Pike's

head, she feels the actual wind distortion (puff)
past her hair, sending strands kind of wafting in

front of her face as she just stays perfectly
still, trusting you. The blades all (impacts)

sinking into it, one of which strikes an area of the
side of its body armor where the plates on the

armor had seemed to be cracked from the blackened
veins from her Blight spell. As it does, the

dagger doesn't even stop and plunges directly into
its body, and you can see a gout of dark, deep red

blood just (spurt) out from the wound. It
(screeches) shakes in place from the impact, the

pain, it's starting to look a little harsh.

LIAM: Done.

MATT: All right, ends your turn! That brings us to
the purple worm.

LAURA: (singing) Purple worm.

LAURA & MARISHA: (singing) Purple worm.

MATT: Purple worm is going to now emerge from the
impact--

MARISHA: Come on, fight the big cocksucker.

MATT: It's going to burst out from the ground
where you and Pike are as the last motion that it

felt was you rushing over across the ground.
(boom) It comes tearing through, making its bite

attack against you and its tail attack against you
as well, because of Pike not moving.

LIAM: Question!

MATT: Yes?

LIAM: Pike probably doesn't, but do I have any
advantage being that I'm in this little closed-in

bubble?

MATT: Technically, no, because it has reach. And
it just kinda swerves around the inside and it

knows this cavern pretty well as it's been through
here a few times. So. That's going to be a 23 to

hit on you?

LIAM: Of course that hits.

MATT: For the bite attack.

SAM: Even with its disadvantage?

MATT: Oh, with the disadvantage-- sorry, the
second roll-- thank you for reminding me there. It

would have been a 13 on the second one plus nine,
that would be 20.

LIAM: Still hits! Uncanny Dodge please! To halve
the damage.

MATT: To halve the damage? Yeah, you can do that
on this one. But first then there's the bite. I

will do that now. That is 21 points of piercing
damage?

LIAM: Unconscious.

MATT: With it halved?

LIAM: 21 halved?

MATT: 21 halved would put you at 11.

LIAM: Oh, yeah. Okay, no, I'm still on my feet.

MATT: Okay.

LIAM: (dazed mumbling)

MATT: The tail stinger's going to swing at you
with disadvantage. That is 14. Rolled a six and a

five. So, as the bite clamps down at you its tail
tries to strike at you but misses entirely.

However, its jaws attempt to close around you, I
need you to go ahead and make a dexterity saving throw.

LIAM: Hold on. 16.

MATT: 16. As you try and move out of the way, it's
not quite fast enough as darkness takes you, the

mouth (slam shut sound) clamps around you, (gulp
noise) and you are swallowed.

LAURA: You didn't even get healed! (panicked
gasp)

LIAM: Still conscious.

MATT: That ends its turn. Now having it appeared,
as this round has happened, I would like both Grog

and Percy to--

TALIESIN: I'm going to shoot the purple thing with
a violent shot.

MATT: How many points into it?

TALIESIN: I'm going to drop all three points into
violent shot.

MATT: Okay! That adds plus six to your
misfire. So you have like a 46% chance of

misfiring on this shot.

TALIESIN: If I roll a six. A six or lower. It--

MATT: Well, it adds plus two to your misfire per
point spent.

TALIESIN: Oh! Never mind then! Oh shit! Then never
mind. Then I'm just going to take two points of

violent shot. So that's--

MATT: So that would bring it to a misfire of seven.

TALIESIN: Yeah.

MATT: Okay! So take your shot.

MARISHA: You misfire on a seven or lower?

TALIESIN: Yep.

MARISHA: Holy shit, Taliesin!

MATT: But if he hits it's two additional dice
damage to it.

MARISHA: Come on, Golden Snitch!

TALIESIN: Seven.

MATT: You rolled a seven?

TALIESIN: I rolled a seven.

MATT: As you rear back, get ready to fire, all of
a sudden, you pull the trigger and the way that

you had customized the barrel to blast additional
black powder blows up in your face and the gun

actually bends out of the way and you feel the
impact--

TALIESIN: Wait! I get to reroll something, don't
I? Where is it? Where is it? Aw. Do I get a

reroll?

Yeah. One save reroll per---

MATT: That's a saving throw reroll, that's not an
attack, unfortunately. Yeah, the weapon misfires,

doesn't do damage to you but the blast does not
take off. You would have to repair the Bad News to

use it again.

TALIESIN: Okay, I'm going to pull out my new gun
and take two shots.

MATT: Okay, so you drop Bad News, take two shots.
Go for it.

TALIESIN: God damn it. (sighs)

TRAVIS: Come on, Percy!

TALIESIN: That hits! That's a 21.

MATT: That hits.

TALIESIN: I'm just going to roll the other one,
too. And that's a 30, that hits. So that's, plus

12. Eight, 15, 25. That's 27 points of damage.

SAM: Lot of things going on in Matt Mercer's head
right now.

MATT: All right. How do you want to do this?

MARISHA: Thank god! Such an asshole.

TALIESIN: Bad News is down, I toss it to the
ground, I pull out the new one. I take my shot

just to get its attention to get one in the
mouth.

MATT: Okay, as you take one shot (gunshot noise)
it blast the side of the wall, its head turns

towards you, seeing the sudden movement, and as
you do you aim up, aiming for the back of its

head. You fire. This time the bullet strikes true,
right into the back of its throat. You can see now

(explosion noise) the blowout which is a small
hole in the back of its throat, you can see the

cavern behind it and a little bit of light that is
peeking through. It (groans) and just (impact)

falls across the ground here. The Eyebite spell no
longer effective but it is, currently, still

there, holding the area.

LIAM: (muffled) I'm still in here.

MATT: Yep, you feel it (impact) collapse on the
ground and it's not moving and the muscles go lax

around you.

LAURA: That's good, so you can move a little bit.

MATT: It's now Grog's turn.

TRAVIS: I can't go get him, though, 'cause the
other dick lord is still on the map.

LIAM: (muffled) I'm in acid in here.

TRAVIS: I can't get to him. I'll run up to the
dead earthworm and try and cut Vax out of his

stupid stomach. With Craven Edge.

MATT: As you rush up, leaping onto the body of the
now-deceased purple worm, you bring the blade up

and begin carving through. Go ahead and I'll say
you manage to, over the course of this round, you

don't have to roll for it. You just begin to tear
through it with the blade repeatedly, gashing it

open until eventually you can feel the blows from
the outside.

TRAVIS: Did I just help midwife Vax out of this
thing?

MATT: Just a moment. I would like you to go ahead
and make an attack roll with disadvantage.

LAURA: An attack.

TRAVIS: 20.

LIAM: Hits!

MATT: All right, go ahead and roll damage.

LIAM: I mean, I'm unconscious.

MARISHA: You're unconscious?

LAURA: Well, he will be once he takes his damage.

TRAVIS: 17.

LIAM: Unconscious--

MATT: 17, so, as you strike through you feel
yourself hit something else within the purple

worm, and as the wound opens up, you can see Vax's
bleeding, unconscious form slip out of the purple

worm's body, onto the ground of the icy cavern.

TRAVIS: Ew.

LAURA: You just killed my brother.

LIAM: I'm unconscious.

MATT: All right, that ends your turn?

TRAVIS: It was only one-- it was a couple of
strikes to get him out, right?

MATT: Yeah.

TRAVIS: Yeah, that ends it.

MATT: All right.

(laughter)

SAM: Killed Vax.

MATT: That was your saved attack. Now, finishing
that turn, Scanlan, you are up.

SAM: Ah, me? oh. Hello, hello. (laughs) I will
kill it with fire. Well, let's see, can I see Vax

over there in the worm juice?

MATT: No, not from your position. As far as you
know, he's still been swallowed.

SAM: Then I'll kill it with fire. I will use my Wand
of Fireballs to blast balls at it.

TALIESIN: Your balls of fire wand.

SAM: My balls of fire, and I won't hit Key, will
I?

MATT: Currently, if you aim it properly. It's a
big radial spell.

LAURA: Oh no, it's going to get Keyleth.

SAM: Oh, it's that radius!

MATT: Yes. You could aim it in such a way--

SAM: Forget it, I'll just do Lightning Bolt
instead.

MATT: Okay.

LAURA: That's a huge radius.

MATT: Fireball's a powerful, dangerous spell, if
things are in close quarters, but against mass

amounts of enemies, it's brilliant.

SAM: So I take two steps to my right, so no one
else is in the line and I will lightning it

instead.

MATT: All right. Go for it, go ahead and roll
damage.

SAM: 8d6, yeah?

MATT: Yep, that is an 11 on its dexterity saving
throw. Full damage.

SAM: 31.

MATT: 31 points of lightning damage to it. All
righty! As you step to the side, releasing the

bolt of lighting energy, it blasts into the front
of its face. You can see one of its jaw mandibles

gets torn off from part of the impact, you can see
now the deep red blood begin to pool on the side

of its face and drip down as it looks over,
whipping its head in your direction.

SAM: (whimpers) Do I still have any movement?

MATT: Yeah, you only moved ten feet, so you still
have 15 more feet.

SAM: I'm going to try to shuffle back into the
tunnel there a little bit. And for my bonus, I'll

Healing Word myself.

MATT: Go for it.

SAM: Okay, what is that, d4? Great, yeah, six
points. Awesome.

MATT: All right, that finishes Scanlan's turn.
Percy, you're up.

TALIESIN: I'm going to take another shot at the
big icy worm.

MATT: Okay.

TALIESIN: I'm just going to take two normal,
everyday shots because things have been weird.

It's got to be close to death now. That's 17.

MATT: 17 just barely hits.

TALIESIN: And 24.

MATT: Okay, both hit.

LAURA: Get it, Percy!

MATT: Your pistol now needs to be reloaded.

TALIESIN: Yes. Well, that's my third-- Third attack
is to reload. I keep track, I'm good. 21 points of

damage.

MATT: Good. (gun firing twice) Both shots go off,
(click) the third one kind of clicking. You go to

reload, you can see both blast across the front of
its body, leaving little reddish dots on its

midsection as each bullet sinks into it. It's
still standing, still writhing about. You can see

it's bleeding from many different wounds and it's
not looking too great, but it's still standing.

Stay where you are or you going to--?

TALIESIN: Oh yeah, I'm staying where I am.

MATT: All right, Vex, you're up.

LAURA: I'm going to Hunter's Mark him.

MATT: All righty!

LAURA: And I'm going to shoot two arrows at him.
Because what else am I going to do? Oh, Pike can

help you.

TRAVIS: He's unconscious; don't listen to that
piece of shit.

LAURA: I can't tell what happened; Grog went to
save you.

LIAM: Huh? Oh, yeah.

LAURA: 29 on the first hit.

MATT: 29 hits.

LAURA: And 27 on the second hit.

MATT: Both hit.

LAURA: Okay. 20 on the first hit.

MATT: Nice.

LAURA: 18 on the second hit.

MATT: Got it. Both arrows (impacts) sticking into
its side, you can now see multitudes of the shafts

sticking out. It's still standing. It's a hardy,
hardy creature. You want to move or you want to

stay where you are?

LAURA: I'm going to stay where I am.

MATT: Okay. That's all right, ends your turn.
Trinket's still sitting there wanting to help, but

not able to do anything. All right.

SAM: So you mean, Trinket is doing what Trinket
always--

LAURA: Shut up!

(laughter)

MATT: Pike screams out, "Vax!" and runs up the
body, climbs up to the top and jumps off, landing

next to your unconscious self. Reaches down and is
going to use her one 6th-level spell, Heal.

MARISHA: Ooh!

MATT: So you immediately regain 70 hit points.

LAURA: Whoa!

TRAVIS: It's like Pulp Fiction with the adrenaline
shot.

MATT: Clerics, man! You come to consciousness,
taking the deep breath-- The cold air from the

cavern that you inhale stings your lungs, and you
look over and Pike's there before you, eyes wide.

Goes from a serious frown and a worried, furrowed
brow to a big smile as you come back to

consciousness. "Vax!" as she goes and hugs you.

LIAM: And I clap my hand here and I leave a big,
gory, slimy smear right on the half of her face.

Thank you, Pike.

MATT: So you're back up, that finishes her round.
Grog, you're up.

TRAVIS: We are still hungry! And I rush up to
giant dick smear.

MATT: Leaping over-- (grunt, running sounds)

TRAVIS: And I would like to use reckless attack on
my first of all three great weapon master.

MATT: Okay. You can use them all. All of them are
affected now.

TRAVIS: Let's do that.

MATT: All right! So, advantage on all of your
attacks.

TRAVIS: That's a 23.

MATT: Hits.

TRAVIS: Oh, Jesus. What's 29 minus five? 24.

MATT: Hits.

TRAVIS: That probably--

LAURA: That hits, too.

TRAVIS: Yeah. I've got to do the math. 22.

MATT: All right, go ahead and roll damage.

TRAVIS: Okay. 12. 20, plus ten, 30 for the first
one. Eight. 13. 21, 31 for the second one.

LAURA: Grog, you've never been so hot!

TRAVIS: Three, eight, 16, 26 for the third one.

MATT: 26. How do you want to do this?

TRAVIS: I'd like to take Craven Edge and jump up,
straight up, as high as I can and drive it

straight into the top of its cavity and just drag
it down and open it up like a beautiful bouquet.

MATT: As you see Grog staple himself to the top
of this now-standing, 20-25 foot tall creature,

he, using his barbarian strength to leap up on the
top, sinking the blade into the back of its head.

Immediately it rears back, its whole back arching.
As it does so, you just use the heft of your

weight, grinning as you drive the blade down the
entirety of its body. As you grind down to the

surface, you can see its armored back just pop
open, like a freshly cooked sausage-- just the

insides spill out onto the ground. By the time
Grog reaches the ground, you are coated in thick,

thick crimson. Strangely enough, even though the
blood is liquid, you feel almost like this

crystalline force, like there are actually ice
crystals within the blood stream itself from the

cold that emanates from its body--

TRAVIS: Like Icy Hot.

MATT: Yes! And as you land and hit the ground, its
body slaps forward, barely missing Keyleth as it

wet hits the ground. Almost like a shrimp that had
its entire back torn open. It's just in two pieces

face down on the ground. Right there.

MARISHA: Good work, Grog.

TRAVIS: I want more. Who's next?

LIAM: Shh!

LAURA: Calm down, Grog! Calm your tits, Grog!

TRAVIS: Can I look in the blade and go: that was
good, wasn't it?

MATT: "You did good, my friend. Very, very good."

MARISHA: Hi, Grog.

SAM: Who you talking to, Grog?

TRAVIS: That was good, wasn't it?

MARISHA: It was very good, yeah! You did good!

TRAVIS: Well, fucking answer me next time, Jesus!

SAM: Sorry!

LIAM: I speak quietly into the earring and say:
could everybody shut the fuck up, please, and can

we get out of here? Quietly?

LAURA: No! There's gold! There's lots of gold on
the other side!

LIAM: Yeah, let's call another two worms, let's do
that.

SAM: These are probably the only ones! It's a male
and a female!

MARISHA: How do you know that!?

LIAM: They fucking hated each other. They hated
each other!

MARISHA: Yeah! They were trying to kill each
other!

SAM: Yeah! They were married! They're a married
couple! They hate each other!

MARISHA: Scanlan, that's only your relationships!

LAURA: Scanlan, you're right there. Get as much
gold as you can and Dimension Door over to the

teleporter.

SAM: I'm here? What?

LAURA: You're right by the gold!

SAM: Oh you mean, I'm going to get the gold?!

LAURA: Get the gold and Dimension Door!

SAM: I don't have a Bag of Holding! I weigh 14
pounds! I can't hold that much gold! Gold is

heavy!

TRAVIS: I can get over there. Do we want gold?

SAM: Yes, we want fucking gold! Wait, isn't there
gold all over the place?

MATT: It's like smatterings of single pieces
across the floor, but this one tunnel, the hoard

itself is pouring into the tunnel left behind.

LAURA: I need it!

TALIESIN: Go grab the gold, let's get the body,
and we'll get out of here. We have to search the

body as well.

TRAVIS: I run over to the gold. I run around the
worm and run to the gold. And I (yelling) frenzied

rage-loot this shit!. Just hacking away at it!

MATT: Slapping the stone and pouring all the rest
of the gold you can get your hands on inside this--

SAM: I'll assist. Grog, Grog! Open the bag!
(singing) Bigby's Hand will grab the gold.

(laughter)

LAURA: Yes! Oh my gosh, get so much gold!

MATT: Giant scoops into the Bag of Holding. It's
just pouring off the sides of it onto the ground

and you're having to scoop it back up inside.

MARISHA: I take out like my little filet knife and
I start going to town on the frost worm in front

of me, trying to salvage anything that I can from
him.

MATT: Okay!

LAURA: I call Trinket and I tell him to get over
by the teleportation circle.

MATT: Make a nature check real fast.

MARISHA: My book! I got my book!

SAM: Who, me? Nature check?

MARISHA: It's me. I got my book, which gives me
advantage.

LIAM: I'm meeting Trinket, and I'm going to
lay-slash-nap on his back.

MARISHA: 29.

LAURA: And I'm going to run as fast as I can over
to where I can see them hoarding the gold, because

I want to see it.

MATT: All right. You get over there pretty quick.

TALIESIN: I'm going to check the frozen body.

MATT: Okay. As Keyleth checks, you check the
frozen body.

TALIESIN: Is that the dead man?

MATT: Oh. oh! The frozen man. Okay. Keyleth. You
take a moment to cut through and there's the other

undamaged mandible, the eye appears to be
undamaged but those are all going to be very

careful, time-intensive things to remove properly.
There isn't much that can really be pulled from

this other than that. There's not a whole lot of
material on--

MARISHA: Can I vial any of the blood?

MATT: You can bottle some of the blood, yeah.

MARISHA: Yeah, I want to do that.

MATT: Okay, so you bottle some of the blood--

MARISHA: And I'm going to take that mandible if I
can.

MATT: Okay, so you remove a mandible. So you can
mark that down. All right, so you guys are

gathering money.

TRAVIS: We don't have anything to store it in,
really.

LAURA: Can I try to get some of the icy armor off of
the big worm that's right next to me now?

MATT: You step up to it. I mean, most of the
armor--

LAURA: I just want to pull on it and see if I can
get some of it.

MATT: The parts that you pull on, that are like
big hefty chunks that would be of any real use, are

part of its body. The few that are busted from the
damage you dealt to it throughout the combat,

they're such small pieces and they crumble at your
touch.

LAURA: It's okay, I'm more interested in gold
anyway.

TALIESIN: Is it possible to move the frozen man,
or is he just really stuck in there?

MATT: You go ahead and you grab onto him, and he's
actually frozen to a coat of ice that is left in

there, and looking at the ice pattern, you get the
sensation that that frost worm may have frozen him

in there, had seen him previously and, unable to
reach him within the very back of that alcove,

just frost breath-ed, this one or another like it
did so.

TALIESIN: Keyleth! Can I borrow you over here?

MARISHA: Yeah. What do you want?

SAM: Are your hands dripping with blood right
now?

MARISHA: Yeah.

TALIESIN: Can you warm him up and see if we can
get him out of here?

MARISHA: Yeah.

MATT: Okay, so you begin to slowly--

MARISHA: We were trying to do this before. We were
trying to melt his face because Pike was going to

do a talk to dead spell.

MATT: Okay.

TALIESIN: We know what happened to him now,
though.

LAURA: Yeah, we've got to get out of here.

MATT: So, anything else you want to do?

MARISHA: Well, I guess we're taking the body?
I'll focus my heat on his feet so we can just

dislodge him and throw him over our shoulder and
go.

MATT: Okay. The ice slowly begins to melt, you
gather you probably have another five to ten

minutes before he'll be free.

TRAVIS: That's pretty long. Too long.

LAURA: Yeah, if we feel anything, let's go, okay.
Got the gold? Let's go. Let's go.

MATT: You're still gathering gold, it's going to
take you a while to get all this, it's a lot of--

it's a small opening--

TRAVIS: Do we leave the cave or do we use the
teleportation circle?

LAURA: Teleportation circle.

MARISHA: How much time is it going to take them to
get the gold?

MATT: Probably, to get all of it? Another probably
15 minutes or so.

LAURA: Jeez.

MATT: Because you have to like get in the cavern
and pull out chunks, so it's a big hoard.

MARISHA: How about this, let's spend five minutes
doing all this stuff and see where we're at.

LAURA: He's rolling, he's rolling!

MARISHA: Son of a bitch, we should go.

MATT: As you're having this conversation, the
ground begins to quake and you can just see--

ALL: Go! Run run run!

SAM: It could be an unrelated seismic event.

LAURA: Scanlan, run!

MATT: All right, as you all rush around the
corpses, heading towards the teleportation circle, you--

SAM: I smack myself with Bigby's Hand.

MATT: Giving yourself a lift as you're pushed
along over the course, you guys rush over to the

teleportation circle, right as you hear the ground
erupt about 30 feet behind you.

LAURA: Oh, shit!

MATT: In a very similar fashion as the initial
arrival of the worm, and you hear a similar

shrieking sound.

LAURA: Slow-motion turn around, is it a purple one
or a blue one?

MATT: It is another purple worm. A larger one.
Immediate comparison? You get the idea, and as you

were tearing it apart-- Both of these were
adolescent. They weren't fully grown.

TALIESIN: Run!

TRAVIS: Must go faster. Must go faster.

MATT: All of you guys rush onto it, one after the
other, onto the teleportation sigil, the sigil

carrying each of you back to your destination
before the purple worm can reach you in time, you

all now find yourselves standing in the room
beneath the house that previously belonged to

Krieg, safe, with as much gold as you could carry
in the time period you had.

LAURA: Which is a good amount, I have a feeling.

MATT: We'll come back to that in a minute, but
first we're going to take a little break for the

restroom, guys. So we'll see you back here real
fast, we'll make this a quick break, and see you soon.

TRAVIS: Five minutes. Five minutes. Don't leave.

MATT: Bye, guys.

[break]

MATT: Welcome back, everyone. So. Returning, as
the party calms down after the harrowing encounter

with a couple of worm-based entities. What would
you like to do?

MARISHA: Sorry about that whole cloud mist thing,
you guys. I was trying to--

LAURA: We almost died.

MARISHA: Yeah. Sorry about that. Thanks, Vex.

TRAVIS: That was you?

MARISHA: Look, it was something new, I'm still
working out the kinks, all right?

LAURA: Don't do it again. Not in combat.

MARISHA: I'm working out the kinks. I'm sorry.
It'll be really cool next time I try it.

LIAM: 20. Anything left? Or is it just where I,
we--

MATT: Same setup where you left it, but the same
pattern to escape that you recall from before.

LIAM: There were traps left still. Still the same,
all right.

MATT: Still the same pattern, so you guys all,
thankfully, due to Vax's viselike memory, follow

the path through the tiles to avoid the traps that
are set entering that room. You make your way back

up the stairs to the gallery room that contained
the tapestries, the domino set, the gold tea set,

the skull with the gem, all those things.

TALIESIN: I say we grab the tea set and the skull
and take them to Lady--

LAURA: Dr. Dra?

TALIESIN: No, actually, maybe we should have it
identified first.

LAURA: Right. That would be smart. What are we
going to get-- are we doing-- wait. Here's a

question I have. Do we have to give Dr. Dra the
portion of what we found down there? Because

technically it's not in the house. Technically.
So, whatever we find in the house is what we give

him a percentage of, yes? Yes?

SAM: Technically, he's not an honorable man. But
we should be.

LAURA: Right, and honorably, it is truthful to say
that we didn't find it in the house. Technically,

it's across the fucking world.

TRAVIS: That's true. Give him a bit of the tea
set, we give him the dominoes--

LAURA: They tried to steal our money, Scanlan, and
you're letting them have free rein in our house

right now.

SAM: It's their nature.

MARISHA: I'm still really confused as to why we
came back here to begin with.

SAM: We were checking it out to see if it was
safe.

MARISHA: Right, well, that's been confirmed, it's
not.

LAURA: Right? We found the owner of the house, and
he's been frozen.

SAM: Should we report this to the officials and
try to quarantine the house, destroy it,

something?

TALIESIN: I think that would be wise.

MARISHA: Quarantine the house?

SAM: Just destroy the portal, destroy the
teleportation circle.

TALIESIN: Certainly can't have anyone else moving
in here.

LAURA: We should take it for ourselves. Just to
keep it safe.

SAM: Take the gold, or the house?

TRAVIS and LAURA: The house.

LAURA: We should let Emperor Uriel know that we
should take control of this house because it

contains very powerful secrets.

TALIESIN: We should find out what that skull
does.

SAM: What does Pike think about that?

MATT: Pike? Hearing this conversation and still
glad that everyone survived this end of this whole

circumstance, goes: "Well--"

(laughter)

MATT: "I mean, we should let Uriel know."

TALIESIN: I can't look at him.

MATT: "But we also made a deal. And we're people
of our word."

LAURA: Yes, Pike, we made a deal for anything we
found in the house.

SAM: Don't condescend to Pike.

LAURA: I'm not condescending Pike, I am
rationalizing this agreement.

MARISHA: I'm still really confused as to why we
are trying to maintain honor to inhonorable

people.

SAM: Because we're better than that.

LAURA: I'm going to tell him you said that.

TRAVIS: Yeah, why do we care if they have money?

SAM: Let's count our money first before we make
that decision. But I'm mainly concerned what Pike

feels about taking control of this evil, evil
house.

LAURA: It's not evil, evil. It's not an evil
house.

SAM: It's got an evil, mysterious gem-eye looking
at us right now.

LAURA: Well, exactly, it's got secrets. We have a
house that has powerful secrets in it, that people

shouldn't be in. I'm saying we should claim it so
that we can keep other people from falling

victim.

SAM: All right. If in claiming it we can get
someone, some sort of religious person in here to

clear it for us, making sure that it's-- Pike
would be an option.

MARISHA: How is this going to sound to Uriel?
Excuse me, Uriel, just want to let you know that

we broke into General Krieg's old house and found
out it's really dangerous. Can we have it?

LAURA: No, we just say-- Keyleth, really?

MARISHA: Well, I'm just saying, how do we phrase
this?

LAURA: You think that's how you would phrase it?
You'd say: we heard rumor that the owner of the

house had gone missing. We went to investigate and
discovered very powerful, dangerous secrets

within. We know where he is. He's frozen on the
other side of a portal. We need to make sure

nobody else falls victim to it. So we close off
the house and we say we'll keep it safe. For the

time being.

MARISHA: And what happens when he asks why we were
there in the first place?

LAURA: We tell him we heard that somebody went
missing and we were investigating where he went.

TRAVIS: That makes sense to me.

LIAM: We've probably earned a bit of trust at this
point.

LAURA: What, we have to go through his guard? No.
We're part of the council.

MARISHA: I don't know

LAURA: I think it's a very fair-- Percy?

TALIESIN: I would agree. I don't think it's
necessary for us to claim ownership for it. We

just need to have it cordoned off and make sure no
one else, other than us, can come in.

LAURA: Exactly. I'm not saying it's ours. I'm
saying we just make sure no else comes in.

SAM: We're leasing with an option to buy.

TRAVIS: Is the skull with the gem in there still?

MATT: It's still turned away, and I believe you
put a tapestry over it.

LAURA: Yes, we did.

TALIESIN: Let's bundle it up in the tapestry.

LIAM: That thing is trouble, though, that thing is
trouble

TALIESIN: Well, let's take it to somebody who--

SAM: Take the skull?

TALIESIN: I think we should take the skull and
show it to someone who might know what it is.

TRAVIS: All right, I go over and grab the tapestry
and the skull, hold it like a knapsack.

MATT: Okay, make-- no this is fine, it's
relatively light.

TRAVIS: Can you hear me?

TALIESIN: Yes, Grog, we can hear you.

TRAVIS: Yeah. Right, good, maybe--

SAM: Oh shit, the whispers. If you haven't read
the comics, check it out on geekandsundry.com.

TALIESIN: And while you're there, spend some money
at Gilmore's Glorious Goods. Gilmore's, where all

of your magical items can be procured. With a
smile a week.

LAURA: (laughing) That was the lamest slogan
ever.

MARISHA: All of your items can be purchased.

TALIESIN: I'm exhausted.

TRAVIS: Shut the fuck up! Wait, wait, wait. Last
part, last part, last part.

SAM: And don't forget!

TALIESIN: Don't forget?

SAM: If someone's whispering in your ear, it's
probably the sound of your conscience saying:

"Go buy a T-shirt!"

TRAVIS: I take off running out of the house.

MATT: As you guys are having this conversation,
Grog just bolts out of the house. Just runs up the

stairs, out through the foyer, and is--

LAURA and TALIESIN: Grog!

LIAM: I start running after him, and I'm hasted.

MARISHA: Oh, it's reverse whispering!

TALIESIN: It's the reverse whisper!

SAM: Guys, this is the rest of the show.

TALIESIN: They're not talking, there's just
tongues in ears.

LAURA: (laughs) Lalalala.

MARISHA: Wet willie.

LIAM: I'm running out stealthing, after him.

LAURA: I stop and I get the golden tea set. And I
take off after him.

TRAVIS: (yelling) Guys, you've got to come out of
the house, now!

TALIESIN: Okay, we're running out of the house.

TRAVIS: We've got to get out of the house. Now!

TALIESIN: We're running out of the house.

MARISHA: Okay, okay. We're running out of the
house. Christ.

TALIESIN: I'm following him out of the house, so.

MATT: Right. You all rush out. You're now out of
the foyer. You burst out the front of the home

itself. You're in the front yard at this point in
time, in the slightly dead grass.

TALIESIN: It's going to go Poltergeist on us,
isn't it?

MARISHA: The house just collapses.

MATT: The sun's still high in the sky, late
afternoon at this point.

LAURA: What the fuck was that about?

TRAVIS: The house and the skull are linked. As
long as the house stands, his evil will grow.

SAM: Whose evil?

TRAVIS: It didn't say. The house has to be taken
down to the ground. The portal must be destroyed.

LIAM: Says who? Who's in there?

TRAVIS: (loud and angry) I just heard this
fucking-- (calmer, hesitating) I. Have...

premonitions at times, it runs in my family.

MARISHA: Since when, Grog?

TRAVIS: You know, when I'm drinking ale, this
voice goes like: "Stop!" But I'm like: "No." And I

keep going. And sure enough, I should've stopped.

MARISHA: But you haven't been drinking today.

SAM: That voice is usually me.

TRAVIS: Are you saying anything?

MATT: Grog. Make a deception check.

TRAVIS: 12.

MATT: I'm going to say, over the course of
everyone listening, Grog hasn't been really fancy

with wordplay or deception. He's a very blunt,
upfront person, and it's very awkward to see a

childlike mind attempt to convey a fictional story
like the one he's been pretending.

LAURA: So, you're lying.

TRAVIS: What?

LAURA: You're lying, Grog.

TRAVIS: What? Why do you say that?

TALIESIN: Because you're really bad at it. And
it's hilarious.

TRAVIS: Reverse psychology. I'm really bad at it.

LAURA: Yes, you are.

TRAVIS: That didn't work.

TALIESIN: No, it didn't.

LIAM: I want to walk right up to Grog. Right up to
his nipples, because that's as high as I go.

SAM: Kiss him on the mouth.

(laughter)

LIAM: That's two episodes from today. Will you
come down here, please? Big Man? Couple of things.

First, and this is a smaller detail, I shaved half
your beard, correct? It's correct. You've cut me

open at least twice, right now. Pike, come here.

MATT: Pike walks up. "Yeah?"

LIAM: I would say that makes you and I even.
You've been acting all kinds of fucked-up for a

while now, and I know you don't want to disappoint
her, your best friend. Something's going on with

you, and it's time to talk about it. You're
talking to yourself, you're talking to your own

asshole. You're talking to that fucking sword,
you're talking to trinkets we're picking up in

houses. What is going on?

TRAVIS: Talking to the sword?

LIAM: And she's listening. And she knows when
you're lying, and she knows when you're telling

the truth.

TRAVIS: Pike?

MATT: She does give you this concerned look that
only a possibly disappointed friend can give you,

like, "I am worried about you, Grog."

TRAVIS: Honestly, I'm hurt. I'm offended. And we
are not fucking equal. If you want to get equal,

we can step out here, and handle business like
men.

MARISHA: Who all is around to see this?

TRAVIS: I've cut you open twice. Twice.

LIAM: I walk away. I walk off. I leave the fucking
house.

LAURA: We're already out of the house.

MATT: So as you guys are standing in front of the
house, Vax just steps out into the center of the

Cloudtop District, in the direction towards the
exit.

LIAM: Gone. Stealthed. Laters.

TRAVIS: Pike, can I talk to you for a second?

MATT: "Yeah. Grog, anything."

TRAVIS: (scoffs) Talking to my sword. The skull
has a voice.

MATT: "What do you mean?"

TRAVIS: Yeah. I picked it up, right, because I was
just going to carry it out, and it said, like: "I

"can grant you a wish. Any wish that you want."

MATT: "We've been told something similar before,
and that didn't go too well. Put the skull down, please."

TRAVIS: Yeah. But it's a wish. We can wish for
anything.

MATT: "Grog, please, trust me? Put the skull
down."

TRAVIS: I don't want to put it down.

MATT: "I know. Do you trust me?"

TRAVIS: Yes.

MATT: "Put the skull down, Grog."

TRAVIS: I drop the skull.

MATT: Okay. The tapestry clatters to the ground
and opens up, and the skull rolls for a second and

stops on its side. You can see now, the golden
skull is just resting there. The gem still with

the intricate filigree, buried within the eye
socket. Pike turns to the rest of you and calls

you over. "We don't know what this is. And
dangerous magics are drawn to imagery like this.

"Let us see what this is about, first."

MARISHA: Pike, can you discern what kind of entity
this might be attached to?

MATT: "I had a feeling before." And she pulls out
her healing symbol and casts Detect Good or Evil

again in the direction of the skull. You can see
she recoils the moment that she concentrates. "The

"aura is definitely evil from this object."

MARISHA: Okay.

LAURA: Maybe it was lying to you.

SAM: What?

TRAVIS: Lying? I hadn't thought of that.

MARISHA: Is that all you have, Pike? That's all
you can find out?

MATT: "You have to take it to somebody who knows
it or spend some time with it, perhaps."

LAURA: How about this, how about nobody ask the
skull any more questions?

MARISHA: Yeah, no one touch the-- Is it just
laying on the floor right now?

MATT: Just laying right there, off to the side.

SAM: Put it in the Bag of Holding?

LAURA and MARISHA: No.

LAURA: I don't like evil things in the Bag of
Holding. We have lots of weird things in there, I

don't know how it'll react.

TALIESIN: I'm going to pull out my sword and pick
it up by the eye socket.

MATT: The empty one? Okay. You lift it up.

TALIESIN: I'm going to carry it on a stick.

LAURA: Should we put a cloth over it?

SAM: Yeah, that might look a little weird.

TALIESIN: It's going to look weird with a cloth
over it, but please, go ahead.

MATT: Okay. Vex, as you approach it and go to
throw the cloth over it, you get a brief view of

the gem that's in the socket. And where there was
a slight shimmer to its surface when it was

looking to before, you can now see briefly what
looks like some sort of a ghostly face appears

across the surface for a second and then fades.

LAURA: Oh, shit.

MATT: You throw it over it.

LAURA: That thing's alive. That is definitely
alive.

TRAVIS: What, the skull?

LAURA: No, no, no. There's definitely something in
that stone. It looked at me.

SAM: Well, that's creepy.

Can we take it to someone; who do we know?
Not Gilmore, this is beyond--

LAURA: Allura? She's not here, she's--

MATT: Allura's in Whitestone right now.

SAM: If only we had some way to magically
transport to Whitestone.

TALIESIN: We do actually have a way of magically
transporting to Whitestone.

SAM: Yes. We do. Could you go?

LAURA: Oh. Just one of us though.

SAM: Yes, you.

LAURA: Can you transport items with it?

TALIESIN: As long as they're on you, as long as
you're holding them.

MARISHA: But Percy, to be fair, you've had a bit
of a weakness with, you know, evil entities being

attached to you.

TRAVIS: Yeah. Besides, if it grants a wish. I get
the fucking wish.

LAURA: You get the wish, Grog, you sure get the
wish.

MARISHA: No, it's not going to-- It's not granting
anyone's wish.

SAM: We could send Pike with it?

MARISHA: I mean, if want to sleep a day, we can
all just bamf back. We can tree stride back to

Whitestone, if we want to take a nap.

LAURA: That's true.

SAM: Wait, we're going to sleep with this skull in
our house?

MARISHA: Well, I've already spent my one 6th-level
spell turning us into fucking clouds.

SAM: You didn't turn me into a cloud.

LAURA: Or me.

MARISHA: Yeah.

Honestly, if I would've turned everyone into
a cloud--

TALIESIN: We'll keep it locked in my workshop for
now. We can make it a night. And we will make sure

that they know we have to deal with the house.

LAURA: Okay.

MARISHA: Who has to deal with the house?

LAURA: I'm going to go speak to Uriel and see if I
can tell him what just happened.

SAM: You by yourself?

LAURA: You can all come with me.

SAM: All right.

TALIESIN: I'll actually-- I've got a great idea.

SAM: Oh. We'll leave the skull with Uriel.

TALIESIN: I'll take the skull to Whitestone, and
I'll see you in the morning.

LAURA: No.

SAM: After you've been corrupted by it?

LAURA: How about we all go together to
Whitestone?

TALIESIN: I was just thinking it'll be a way of
getting the skull out of the house tonight.

LAURA: Yeah, but then it'll be in Whitestone.

SAM: We'll leave the skull in this house--

TALIESIN: That's a very fair point. We're not
leaving-- I don't think that's a good idea.

LAURA: No.

MARISHA: What, hang on, Grog. You were--

LAURA: Why did you run the skull out of the
house?

MARISHA: Yes. Exactly.

TRAVIS: I told you. The house is evil. The portal
has to be crushed.

SAM: Wait, that part's true?

MARISHA: The portal has to be crushed?

TRAVIS: It's an evil portal. Yeah.

SAM: Who told you that?

TRAVIS: The skull did.

SAM: Oh, in addition to the wish? Oh.

LAURA: I don't know. Maybe the skull was trapped
in the house. Maybe it wanted to get out of the house.

SAM: It's like a genie.

TRAVIS: Don't look at me. I'm just the
translator.

SAM: Oh, this is weird. We need some help on
this.

MARISHA: Why was it talking through you, Grog? Why
not Pike?

TALIESIN: I think we'll get answers from Allura.

MARISHA: If you can ask it questions, maybe we could
ask it a few more questions?

TRAVIS: I'm okay with that.

SAM: No. It will hypnotize us and corrupt us.

TRAVIS: It's in a knapsack.

LAURA: I think we should hide it and then open it
up when we're in front of Allura.

TALIESIN: That's fair.

MARISHA: What time is it?

MATT: Right now, it's mid-afternoon. Two, three
o'clock in the afternoon.

TALIESIN: Let's let Uriel know what's happened.

SAM: We'll go on a quick pub crawl.

TALIESIN: I've got to get home and work on a few
things, anyway. I've got a broken gun.

MARISHA: I guess I'll go with Percy and take the
skull, and I'll make sure we put it somewhere safe

in the keep, if you guys want to go talk to
Uriel.

LAURA: Pike? Grog? What do you guys want to do?

TRAVIS: What do we want to do, Pike?

MATT: "I don't know. We wanted to go talk to
Uriel."

MARISHA: Do you want to come with us, Pike? Do you
want to be with the skull, Pike, or do you want to

go talk to Uriel?

MATT: "I should walk with you with the skull."

TALIESIN: Yes, I think that would be best.

SAM: Before we all part ways, can we do a quick
accounting of the gold?

LAURA: We can't just count it right here.

TALIESIN: We'll count it back when we're--

LAURA: Away from your friends, but back at the
keep.

SAM: All right. Fair enough.

MATT: Okay. So, as you guys make your way back to
Greyskull Keep with the skull, keeping it properly

covered so you're not walking through the city
with a giant gold skull at the end of a sword. You

head towards the palace. You make your way through
the front to the outer doors. The throne room is

currently closed, and there is heavy guard up, and
upon you approaching, "I'm sorry. Do you have

"business with Uriel?"

LAURA: Not at the moment.

MATT: "All right."

LAURA: But we will, once you tell him that we're
here.

MATT: "All right. Hold on." He steps inside. The
doors close. About two minutes pass. The guard

comes back out. "I'm terribly sorry. Uriel
currently is in a very heated discussion and

"cannot take guests at the moment. Would you like
me to relay a message?"

SAM: Yes.

LAURA: Yes, but we would like to write it down
first.

SAM: Actually, while you were gone-- And I cast
Friends on him. While you were gone, other guards

came by and said we were clear to go in.

MATT: You can go ahead and make a deception check
with advantage.

SAM: Natural 20.

MATT: He goes, "Other guards? Uriel himself just
told me I can't let anyone inside."

LAURA: Oh, they must have seen him right after you
saw him.

MATT: "All right, fine." And he opens the door.
You guys walk in, and there you see the entirety

of the rest of the Council of Tal'Dorei. You see
Tofur Brotorus, you see Seeker Asum, you see--

what the hell is his name? The other guy. Arbiter
Brom. They're all gathered in this discussion.

Uriel looks up immediately and says, "I'm sorry,
we're not taking any--"

LAURA: We heard there was a council meeting.

MATT: "Technically, no, but yes, what is your
business?"

LAURA: We're here because there's a council
thing?

SAM: We're here to report a security concern of
the utmost importance and urgency to you.

MATT: There's a long, internalized sigh. Not out of
frustration, just more out of being lost in

thought and a little sad. He goes, "All right.
Very well."

LAURA: Is everything all right, Uriel?

MATT: "Everything's fine. What would you like to
bring to the council?"

SAM: Are we among friends here and free to talk in
front of everyone?

MATT: He looks around. "These are my trusted
advisors and my trusted palace guard. Yes."

SAM: We've been alerted to some evil afoot in your
kingdom yet again. The former Krieg's homestead

has been vacant for a while and apparently has a
portal to an evil realm inside. We went to

investigate, acting on a tip from--

LAURA: An old friend.

SAM: Yes.

LAURA: And discovered that it was, in fact, true.
The owner that was missing has been killed.

MATT: "So, Krieg's estate, which was sold off
after his disappearance over a year ago, you're

"telling me contains some sort of evil portal."

LAURA: Yes.

MATT: "Was this built by the new owner?"

LAURA: No, I believe it was built by Krieg.

MATT: "Built by Krieg? How are you certain of this?"

SAM: Our informant told us as much. We don't want
to give his name.

LAURA: It seems rather old, this portal.

MATT: "Where is Krieg now?"

LAURA: I have no idea.

MATT: "All right. Well, we'll send a security
force to keep a very close eye on the house while

"it is investigated."

SAM: It's extremely magically dangerous. They
should not set foot inside the place at all.

LAURA: Incredibly dangerous. It might be best if
we investigate it ourselves.

MATT: "All right, if you'd like. I was going to
wait until Allura returned and I was going to

"assign her to it, but if you feel confident, then
I will leave the investigation in your hands."

LAURA: Thank you.

SAM: Will you notify us when she returns?

MATT: "I will."

SAM: Is there anything else?

LAURA: No. You all look quite lovely today, and we
will leave you to your business.

MATT: Asum chuckles a little bit. The rest of them
acknowledge, Tofor gives a nod, and Uriel closes

his eyes for a second and rubs his temple and
goes, "I appreciate the information. If you

"please, we have matters to discuss."

SAM: Just real quick before we leave. I'm sorry. I
think I had a burrito. Can I just use a facility

inside? A restroom or something?

MATT: "Certainly."

SAM: Thank you.

LAURA: I'll wait for him.

SAM: Just wait out of earshot.

LAURA: Far away.

MATT: "Thank you." They wait as you guys leave the
chambers. The guards close the doors, and you're

welcome to go. There are a number of various WCs,
water closets, throughout the palace.

LAURA: They closed the doors?

SAM: They closed the doors?

MATT: They're not going to let you crap in the
middle of the throne room!

LAURA: No, but I thought I could wait in the back
of the throne room, out of earshot.

MATT: The guards are pushing you out of the throne
room. This is a very private meeting.

LAURA: Excuse me, handsy. I'm leaving.

MATT: "Sorry, Miss. Orders of Uriel." They push
you out and close the doors.

SAM: I've been in the throne room before?

MATT: You have been, yes.

SAM: Do you have eyes on them?

LAURA: No, they fucking shut me out.

SAM: All right. Give me ten minutes.

LIAM: Do you need a scroll?

SAM: I sit down on the WC.

MATT: Do you take your potion?

SAM: No, I don't. Instead, I Polymorph into a
fly, and I'm going to fly my way to the throne room.

MATT: Okay. All right. You fly through, over to
the doors. The front doors?

SAM: Of the throne room?

MATT: How are you getting into the throne room?

SAM: The doors are closed, yes?

MATT: Yes.

SAM: Is there any gap at all?

MATT: There is a slight gap on the bottom.

SAM: Okay, I'm going to crawl in there.

MATT: As you come by, one of the guards swings at
you. You dodge out of the way without issue and

make your way underneath the doors and raise your
flight pattern.

LAURA: I start chatting up the guards on the
outside of the door to distract them a little bit.

MATT: Okay. Go ahead and make a dexterity saving
throw.

SAM: Dexterity? Oh, no, someone's got a fly
swatter! Ten?

MATT: Okay. As you cruise in for a moment, you can
see the throne room itself, in its round pattern,

has designs carved into the walls, almost like
Celtic knots. There are a number of these designs

right towards the sides of each entrance that
previously just looked like a design, but they

emit a dull glow for a second, and a burst of
arcane energy comes out from them. You find your

form immediately unfurl into that of Scanlan the
gnome, which then plops back onto the ground, your

Polymorph spell dispelled. All of a sudden, the
talk stops and the entire council turns back

towards the entrance as you're catching yourself on
the ground.

LIAM: Surprise!

SAM: That one's full. The one that I tried to go
into? It's full and it needs a big cleaning.

MATT: "Good to know, Scanlan."

SAM: I thought there was another one this way.

MATT: "There isn't, Scanlan."

SAM: Not through there, or anything? All right.
Carry on, then. You should send someone up to

service it, though, right away.

MATT: He looks over to Tofor, and Tofor goes--

SAM: It's a matter of security.

MATT: "We'll have it done. Thank you, Scanlan.
Now, please."

SAM: Okay. Two lefts and a right, and I'm out?
Thank you.

LIAM: Matt's got to be using Botox, because he
didn't move!

(laughter)

MATT: Yeah, you gather, due to recent events, that
the magical defenses have been reinstated, with

the current circumstances. The doors open again,
and Vex, as you turn, you see Scanlan being led

out of the doors.

LAURA: Scanlan, what are you doing here?

SAM: Shat all over my plans. Let's go home, I
guess.

MATT: All right. You guys make your way back to
Greyskull Keep. Vax is there, waiting.

LIAM: No, I'm not.

MATT: Oh, you didn't go back to the keep?

LIAM: Nope.

LAURA: I tell some guards on the way out just to
block off that house and not let anybody in it.

Don't go inside, on your life.

MATT: "Noted. The order just came through. Don't
worry. We're gathering a troop specifically for

"this. Don't worry."

LAURA: Not a lot of troops. Just a couple of dudes
is good.

MATT: "Very well."

LAURA: Okay.

MATT: As you're leaving, you can see there are a
few armed individuals, four, approximately, that

are moving towards the house to stand guard and
inspect the exterior, at the very least. You

return to Greyskull Keep. You guys get there, as
well. Grog, you return on your own, essentially,

at this point, unless you're walking with them
with the skull. Vax is nowhere to be found. You do

find that Dr. Dranzel, that whole team is gone,
except for Zed.

SAM: The drummer?

MATT: Yes. Zed is currently having a little bit of
ale in the dining room area, along with Jarett,

who was assigned to watch over while they're at
the keep. As you step inside, they all notice.

Jarett, still with his crossbow loaded in his lap,
though he's happy and jovial and conversational

with Zed. "Ah, you've returned. Good to see all of
you in good health. The rest have left into the city."

SAM: Did they say why? For a performance?

MATT: Zed leans forward and goes, "Actually, it
appears that Kaylie got in some sort of a serious

"bar tussle last night and is currently being held
in the stocks. The stockade. I get those words

"confused. Stockade." He takes a sip of his ale.
"The rest of the troupe's going to see if they can

"get her out."

SAM: All right, good to know. Thanks, Zed.

LAURA: Jarett?

MATT: "Yes?"

LAURA: Any issues while we were gone?

MATT: "No issues, actually. They were good
conversationalists. They were very aware of my

"disposition, and I kept a very close eye on any
movement, preventing them from leaving the room

"unless they were as a group, except for their
exit, in which Zed escorted me. There have been no

"problems."

LAURA: Good man. I pat him on the shoulder.

TRAVIS: She's in the stockade. Only problem is
getting caught. I like her style. Should we get

her out?

SAM: I'd like to, very much, but I don't know how.
We can't just barge in there and break someone out

of jail. We're known people.

LAURA: Don't you have your sheriff badge?

LIAM: (laughs) Well-remembered.

TRAVIS: Yeah, can't we post a bond or something?

SAM: It's customs, not sheriff.

LAURA: Call the council.

MARISHA: Well, it sounds like they've already--
they're sending other people to get her out.

What's the big deal?

SAM: Yeah, but they could make the problem worse.

LAURA: Those guys? They'll make it worse.

SAM: She's quite special to me. I think we
should-- I think I should go and try to get her out.

MARISHA: Oh, she's 'quite special' to you, yeah?

TRAVIS: There's one place I haven't done it, and
it's in a prison.

SAM: Not, not in that way.

(laughter)

SAM: That's creepy. No, not in that way.

MARISHA: Why is that creepy?

SAM: I'm not interested in her in that way.

MARISHA: But you were courting her two days ago.

SAM: Things have changed.

MARISHA: I thought she spent the night in your
room.

SAM: She's a good person and she deserves much
better than the likes of me--

TALIESIN: That's never stopped you before.

LAURA: Don't say that, Scanlan. You've got a
cube!

MARISHA: That's true.

SAM: It's a rather large cube, but, listen, all
right, she's-- she's-- we're related. We're

related.

MARISHA: What?

SAM: And I don't just mean--

MARISHA: Wait, what?

SAM: She's a Shorthalt.

TRAVIS: Like a cousin?

LAURA: Like a sister?

MARISHA: Like an aunt?

TALIESIN: Like a mother?

SAM: Like a baby. Like a baby Shorthalt.

TRAVIS: Whose baby?

SAM: (high-pitched 'hee' sound)

TRAVIS: 'He'?

(laughter)

SAM: Listen, don't spread the word around. I don't
want my cred to be ruined, but... she's my little girl.

LAURA: You dog!

TRAVIS: You're a baby daddy?

SAM: I didn't know this, this is new information.
I'm still just adjusting to it.

TRAVIS: Holy shit!

MARISHA: You tried to sleep with your baby daddy?

SAM: No I didn't.

TRAVIS: Did you lock that up that night?

SAM: No, I did not! I did not try and sleep with
her. I think deep down inside, some part of me

knew, which is why I gave her all that gold. I
think.

TRAVIS: You paid her for it?

SAM: No! Oh, Grog, please!

(laughter)

SAM: I may deserve that but no, no. It's not like
that at all.

LAURA: Then you didn't know. There's no part of
you that knew you had any children.

SAM: I mean, I always knew that was a possibility,
in the trade I deal in.

MATT: At this point Zed breaks in and goes,
(chuckles) "Indeed!"

SAM: All right. Easy. Listen, drummer--

MATT: "It's Zed."

SAM: You can be replaced easily. When I played with
them, we had seven drummers in two years. And I

killed two of them.

(laughter)

MATT: He sets his drink down and pushes it away.
"Should I go?"

SAM: No, just stay and shut up.

TRAVIS: I'll take that, though. I take his drink.

MARISHA: Oh, wow. Well, that's--

SAM: Yes, I don't quite know how to act or behave
now. And I'm going through a crisis of conscience

and identity. I'm sorry; I'm off my game right
now. But she's related to me.

LAURA: Just make sure that she knows that you love
her. And make sure that she knows that you're

there for her.

MARISHA: Why do you keep saying she's 'related to'
you? Why don't you just call her exactly what she

is? Which is your daughter.

SAM: I don't know. Okay, all right.

MARISHA: That's weird to be like, 'my child is
related to me.'

SAM: I'm not good with this stuff. I haven't done
this before, all right? I haven't really had

family for much of my life. And this is a new
thing and it's going to take me some time to

adjust and figure out what this means for me. All
right? I've defined most of my life by the people

I've slept with and now, this a new part of me
that I have to figure out.

LAURA: Well, technically, it's still defined by--

TALIESIN: I was just thinking that. It's a
redefinition.

LAURA: You could make a really good move of it by
helping her get out of the stockade.

SAM: I would like to. But I'll need some help,
probably. I don't know if we can all go barge in there.

LAURA: Trinket.

MATT: (bear grunts)

LAURA: Scanlan needs help

MATT: Trinket lumbers over to you and (slurp).
Licks the side of your face. (bear groan) Leans

into you. Nearly pushing you off your feet from
the sheer mass.

SAM: (laughs) Thanks, Vex. Trinket, I'm okay for
right now. But maybe you can help best by staying

here and looking after the drummer here and making
sure.

MATT: (growls) Just growls at Zed, who stands up.
"I'm just here to make sure that we continue our

"deal when they return. I'm not-- I don't-- I just
play the drums."

LAURA: You do a good job of it. Keep drinking that
ale.

TRAVIS: I give it back.

MATT: "I--" Takes the empty and goes and refills
it from a nearby cask.

SAM: I know it's late in the day, but I wouldn't
mind going right away. Does anyone want to join me?

TRAVIS: Do you want all of us? Or a smaller
party?

SAM: Probably just a smaller party. Don't we have
business to attend to here? Gold to count and--

LAURA: I can stay and count.

TRAVIS: I can stay with her.

MARISHA: Who do you want to take? You pick your
dodgeball team.

TRAVIS: Yeah, yeah.

LAURA: Ooh, I like it.

TALIESIN: Yes.

SAM: Well to get out of a stockade, we'll need
some cunning. And cunning-- And cunning.

TRAVIS: Go ahead and ask.

SAM: I wish Vax were here.

TRAVIS: Don't we have earrings?

SAM: You know what, we are but they have a
range.

LAURA: They do have a range.

SAM: Come in, Vax. Earth to Vax. Tune in Tokyo.

MATT: Approximately where are you right now?

MARISHA: So many secrets!

MATT: I love the whispers!

SAM: He's gone to Whitestone!

MATT: All right, there is no response. He really
is out of range.

SAM: Percy, I need you for your words, and Keyleth
for your magic. Let's go.

MARISHA: All right.

LAURA: We're useless.

MARISHA: Can I heal myself up first?

SAM: Sure, if you've got a little left for me.
Wait, I can give us--

MARISHA: Oh wait, Pike! Will you hook us up?

MATT: "Yeah," And she goes over and--

TALIESIN: I'm going to try and do a quick repair
to my gun, also.

MATT: Okay, go for it. She throws down a couple of
Cure Light Wounds. She's going to do 3rd level to

each of you.

MARISHA: Dope.

MATT: Of Cure Wounds. This'll be 3d8 plus five to
each of you. So 23 to you, and 21 to you, Scanlan.

She'll do a third one to you, Keyleth. Because
you're looking pretty rough, right Keyleth?

MARISHA: Huh?

MATT: You're looking pretty rough?

MARISHA: I'm at 65 now, with that. So I'm still 30
under.

MATT: So on top of that you get another 13. Pike's
going to stay with you guys.

LAURA: Oh, okay.

MATT: All right, so. While you guys count the gold
and what you managed to gather, you find in the--

LAURA: Out of sight of Zed! Just so you know.

MATT: Not a worry. You manage to pull from the
hoard entirely, out of gold, silver, copper,

platinum, the equivalent of 4,150 gold pieces.

TRAVIS: Wow.

LIAM: There was another 20 or 30g there.

LAURA: I know, right?

LIAM: Probably.

SAM: We can go back.

MARISHA: How much? 4,000?

MATT: 4,150 gold.

TRAVIS: You don't want to go back in there.

MATT: About 1,050 gold worth of gems.

LAURA: 1,050.

MATT: Yep, in gems. Mark that. And about 750 gold
approximately of art items, knick knacks, things

that you would have to find a specific seller to
really get the money for them.

LAURA: (singing) Knick knacks.

SAM: Tchotchkes.

MATT: Yeah, like small jade statues, bits of
jewelry...

LAURA: And how much in platinum?

MATT: Well, the gold equivalent of platinum is
what it would be. The total amount is 4,000. But

nice try. All right, so. You guys make your way--
After asking around a bit, you figure the closest

stockade is the Promenade stockade.

SAM: Oh, there's multiple stockades.

MATT: There are. But that's the one that's closest
to the keep and the first place you should start.

So you make your way towards the Promenade
stockade. It's a fairly grim-looking grey stone

building on the outskirts of Abdar's Promenade,
which is a very, very, bombastic, colorful

gathering of tents and buildings and various
shopkeeps. As you walk to the outside of it,

approaching, you can see immediately, there on the
steps, is most of Dr. Dranzel's troupe, just

sitting on the outside steps with two guards at
the door. And they're all talking amongst

themselves, waiting outside. Dr. Dranzel is not
amongst them. As you begin to step closer--

SAM: He got nabbed, too, didn't he?

MATT: (laughs) As you step closer, you can see
they wave you down, and they recognize you and

approach you with an excited look on their face
as if they now have some sort of backup.

MARISHA: I'm going to whisper to Scanlan. I'm
going to say, I'm going to stay back. You go

ahead.

SAM: All right, thanks.

MATT: So Kent Plucker approaches you as you
approach and goes like, "Scanlan. Good thing

"you're here. I think we may need your silvered
tongue to go ahead and help us out in this

"endeavor. Dr. Dranzel's inside; he's been arguing
with the warden for quite some time. We're trying

"to get Kaylie out."

SAM: What happened? Why is she in jail?

MATT: "She got in a bit of a bar fight last night,
it seems. Messed up quite a few gentlemen and all

"of them are arrested and being held inside.
They're wanting a bit of change to do the damages

"and pay for the fine of whatever else she's done.
And, well, we're not keen on really paying fines,

"so we're trying to see how much we can get out of
this with our--"

SAM: What's the fine?

MATT: "I don't know. We didn't go in as a full
group. The guards wouldn't let us."

SAM: Was she injured in any way?

MATT: "I haven't seen her. You'll have to go
inside to find out."

SAM: All right. Thank you. You won't be needed
here anymore. You guys can leave.

MATT: They all look at each other. "If it's fine
by you, we're going to wait for Dr. Dranzel."

SAM: Oh yes, all right. Percy.

TALIESIN: Yes?

SAM: What do you think our play is here?

TALIESIN: Well--

SAM: Should we go in and pay? Should we do a bit
of a ruse? You still have your Hat of Disguise, right?

TALIESIN: Yes, but I think I'm more useful as
myself, rather than anybody else.

SAM: Well, you could be a guard taking me in
there.

TALIESIN: I think on a certain level, you're
possibly making this more complicated than it

needs to be.

SAM: Yeah, but it's fun, though? No, no, you're
right, we should just go in and talk.

TALIESIN: You forget you have clout. Part of the
point of clout is that you spend it. You spend

your clout.

SAM: Oh, all right.

TALIESIN: I know you're not used to actually
having the means by which to just simply get what

you want by asking for it. But you could just...
ask for it.

MARISHA: That was the most privileged thing you've
ever said.

TALIESIN: That's the most privileged thing 
I've ever said that you've heard.

(laughter)

MARISHA: Touché.

LIAM: Marisha has a high clout score.

SAM: So you think just walk on in there. No
subterfuge, no sneaky-sneaky, no breaking down doors?

TALIESIN: Well, a little subterfuge. Let me--

MARISHA: I've got Polymorph. I can always be a
tiny thing in your pocket.

SAM: Who said that?

MARISHA: Sorry, I'm back here. I figured Percy and
I were waiting back here.

SAM: Oh, okay, hi.

TALIESIN: Let me attempt to see if I can defuse
this relatively easily. I will need some gold.

SAM: Are you lying to me to get me to pay you for
a new gun?

TALIESIN: No, but that's a very good point. So
later I will be asking for some gold to help me

fix my new gun.

SAM: All right, I'll give you what you need.

TALIESIN: All right.

MARISHA: Do you have gold, Scanlan?

SAM: I do.

TALIESIN: Okay, we may have to have a discussion.
At the very least I'm going to need 20 gold, at

the very least.

SAM: 20?

TALIESIN: 20 gold, at the very least.

SAM: You don't have 20 gold?

TALIESIN: Oh, I do. Just not for your daughter.

SAM: Oh, Jesus.

(laughter)

SAM: Take 50.

TALIESIN: That will do.

MATT: So you guys approach?

MARISHA: No trips to Coldstone with Percy. You are
not the Godfather.

TALIESIN: I will take you to White Castle,
though.

MATT: You come to the front steps of the stockade,
there are two guards there, with tower shields and

what looks like halberds to each of them. One of
them steps forward, putting his shield out. Not in

an aggressive way, but definitely in an
attention-gathering way. "Do you have business here

"in the stockade?"

TALIESIN: I do; I wish to speak to the warden.

MATT: "The warden is indisposed in conversation at
the moment."

TALIESIN: Well, he will agree to be indisposed in
conversation with me. I'm Percival Fredrickstein

Von Musel Klossowski de Rolo III. And I'm here on
the business of Whitestone.

SAM: He's an ambassador.

MATT: Make a persuasion roll. I'll say with
advantage due to the very, very, intense,

believable stare of Scanlan backing you up.

TALIESIN: 19.

MATT: He gives a nod. "All right, but good luck."
The two guards open the doors, and as they do you

can already hear raised voices shouting back and
forth. Can't really make out the words, but as you

step into the inside you can see there is a
clerk's desk. With a clerk sitting there,

keeping one ear closed as he's trying to write in
a book. To the immediate right of them, there is

Dr. Dranzel in an argument with a gentleman with a
well-kept mustache, thick over the top lip,

slicked black hair that curls up in the back in a
small poof. He's wearing a breastplate and is

standing with an appearance of self-importance. At
which point, as you approach, Dr. Dranzel turns

and goes, "Oh good. Someone with actual--"

TALIESIN: Shush! Who is this person?

MATT: Everyone gets quiet and the individual
standing there goes, "Well apparently, he's the

"man who's bothering me. Hm?"

TALIESIN: What do you do, sir?

SAM: I just throw Dranzel a quick little wink.

TALIESIN: What do you do, sir?

MATT: "I'm a performer." (slight chuckle)

TALIESIN: Excellent, he's a performer. You may
leave, we have no need of you.

LAURA: (whispered) Oh, shit.

MATT: "Hmph." He adjusts his hat and--

TALIESIN: Guard, escort the commoner out of the
room.

MATT: The guards instinctively step up and take
his arms and they lead him out. Dr. Dranzel, taken

aback and the whole time he's looking at Scanlan
with this look of like--

SAM: You heard the ambassador; please leave.

(laughter)

MATT: (boom) The doors close behind. The
individual steps forward.

TALIESIN: Now that that's been taken care of, who
is an authority that I may speak to?

MATT: "That, I'm afraid, would be me. (sly
chuckle) Pleasure to meet you. I'm Warden Cyrus

"Hume. What is your name?"

TALIESIN: Cyrus Hume. I'm Percival Fredrickstein
Von Musel Klossowski de Rolo III of Whitestone.

MATT: "This does me no service."

TALIESIN: It will.

MATT: "Hmph."

TALIESIN: I am, of course, the newly appointed
ambassador from Whitestone, and I have been

brought down here because apparently you are
holding one of my performers. A performer who is

meant to be heading towards Whitestone in the next
three weeks to perform for my sister.

MATT: "Describe your performer, sir."

TALIESIN: Oh, small, plain, female. (dismissive
sigh)

MATT: (sighs heavily) "I know of the one you speak.
The same one we're arguing-- I assume this other

"individual that just left is one of your
performers as well."

TALIESIN: Yes, he is. He is one of the official
performers-- they're supposed to be performing at

the new coronation of a brand new temple in
Whitestone. Much has been arranged, much has been

paid for, and I don't want to explain any of this
to the royal court.

MATT: Make a deception check.

TALIESIN: Casting-- no, not yet. 13.

MATT: Okay. He goes--

TALIESIN: If you were to be agreeable to helping
us move this along, I would remember the favor.

Whitestone would remember the favor.

MATT: "Good. Well, listen. There are fines for
damages, or she sits until tried. Now."

TALIESIN: Damages?

MATT: "The damages to the Nervous Brook pub are
estimated to be upwards of 450 gold pieces, and

"the fine for drunken battery and disturbing the
peace amounts to 250 gold pieces. 700 total and I

"would gladly let you take that rabid dug-grubber
off of my hands."

SAM: You'll watch what you say about her.

MATT: "Oh, will I?"

TALIESIN: Shush, performer. Well, sir, I
appreciate your candor, I appreciate the cut of

your jib, and I appreciate that you are a man of
honor and of your station. It is very, very rare

to find someone who respects such things.
Obviously the damages must be paid--

MATT: "If you wish to discuss it with the three
in question--" He points to one of the cells on the

other side of the room and you can see that there
is a set of bars, and you can vaguely see what

looks like the shape of a person who's just
slumped in the cell. Mostly cast in shadow.

TALIESIN: Who are they?

MATT: "Bar patrons. And they're all worse for
wear."

TALIESIN: Do we know what happened?

MATT: "The dog has teeth. Three against one, if
the stories say true. The bar patrons and the

"owner of the establishment all verified that she
indeed started and finished it."

TALIESIN: I don't care who started or finished it.
Obviously, we will pay for the damages out of your

troupe's pocket.

SAM: Your majesty, are you sure you don't want to
write a check from the treasury?

TALIESIN: Quite.

SAM: I've got the checkbook with me. We could just
write a check.

TALIESIN: We will write a check for our friend's
pocket, but for the damages, I feel that some

responsibility must be taken.

MATT: "I'm not familiar with this check you speak
of. I deal in gold, as does Emon. What good does

"this do me in my station if I am to show up with a
simple piece of paper?"

TALIESIN: He has a very fair point.

SAM: (whispers) Your brand of subterfuge is not
what I had in mind.

(laughter)

TALIESIN: What good is subterfuge when there's
such an opportunity to create a ballad? Some sort

of ballad about a cautionary tale.

SAM: I could have picked anyone to be with me
here. Not this. You're rubbing my face in it

because I threw your gun in the lava.

TALIESIN: You chose so poorly. You chose so
poorly. It is truly impressive how poorly you chose.

MATT: "Stop wasting my time, if you're going to
retrieve this invalid, do so quickly."

TALIESIN: You may come pick up your gold from
Castle Greyskull in the morning. It will be

waiting for you, of course, sir. In the meantime,
here is 20 gold for your trouble. On top of the

gold you will be expecting for all fines imposed.

MATT: Make a persuasion check.

TALIESIN: (high-pitched) One.

MATT: He rolled a natural 20.

TALIESIN: All right, bring it. Bring it.

MATT: "Well, I appreciate your attempt to maneuver
around my station of which you hold so clear.

"You seemingly attempt to bribe a warden of the
stockade in an attempt to retrieve what appears to

"be a relatively... How do I put it? Immoral,
destitute and feral creature."

SAM: Warden. This is just like this bastard. He
always goes around trying to boss people around

and throw his money around. And I turn and I punch
Percy in the face.

MATT: Okay! Roll for an attack.

SAM: Oh, shit. Going for another one. A nine.
Probably not.

MATT: Plus your strength modifier.

SAM: I don't have any strength. One, so that's
ten.

MATT: Ten. Percy, do you take it?

TALIESIN: Yes, I take it.

MATT: Okay. Whack! A solid hit across the face.
You have to lean into it and make it look more

impactful than it really is.

TALIESIN: (overly dramatic) Oh!

SAM: And then I turn around, and I punch a guard.

LAURA: Oh my god.

TALIESIN: Where are you going with this?

MATT: Roll another attack.

SAM: 13.

MATT: 13. You whirl around, and one of the guards
is rushing forward to try and break this up, and

as you swing towards him, your fist collides with
the side of his helmet. It definitely shakes him

for a second. It doesn't do much in the way of
damage, but it does kind of hurt your knuckles a

little bit. Now the guard's like, (startled sound)
and stumbles back a bit.

SAM: I've just had enough with all of you people.
We performers demand respect and deserve it as well.

MATT: The warden's now stepped forward and put his
hand on the side of his blade and says, "Am I to

"understand you walked in here and immediately
struck a guard of the stockade?"

SAM: I've just had it up to here with being bossed
around by people like him.

MATT: "Well, would it make you feel better if he's
thrown in prison?"

SAM: It would.

TALIESIN: It would make me feel better if he was
thrown in prison.

MATT: "Oh, don't worry. You'll both be going."

MARISHA: About this time, I come over the earpiece
and I go, how's it going in there, guys?

SAM: Great.

TALIESIN: Great. Everything's fine.

(laughter)

MARISHA: Good. Just let me know if you need me.

MATT: He looks to the side and two guards now, one
of the ones that punched you and another one to

the side both step up and are reaching--

TALIESIN: Won't it be unfortunate when you find
out I have diplomatic immunity?

SAM: Diplomatic immunity.

MATT: You both have been manhandled and brought
your hands behind. You feel manacles being pulled

forth, and the warden's just looking down upon
both of you.

TALIESIN: I blame you for this.

SAM: You should blame me for this. I'm sorry. I
just had a really shitty day, all right? He

doesn't deserve this. Let him go. Just take me.

MATT: "Very well. Now." And you feel the release
as the manacles come away. You are escorted out of

the room. You are put in shackles, brought, and
thrown into the same jail cell as Kaylie.

TALIESIN: All right. How much to get both of them
out?

MATT: As you're being pushed out?

TALIESIN: Yeah. I'll bring it.

MATT: There's no answer at the moment. The doors
close behind you, and you're thrust off of four

steps. Make an acrobatics check.

MARISHA: They were tossing your ass out.

TALIESIN: 23.

MATT: All right. You manage to catch yourself with
a small tumble over the shoulder, land Willy

Wonka-style, well stuck. As you're thrown, you hit
the ground. You can see off in the corner of the

cell, Kaylie, arms crossed, sitting on the ground.
She leans forward a little bit, and you can see

the light hits the side of her face, and she has a
bit of a welt there and a bit of a black eye, but

she doesn't look too worse for wear.

TALIESIN: Now for the love of God, just wait until
nightfall and Dimension Door out of there.

SAM: Did I hear that?

MATT: Yeah, you'd hear that.

SAM: Good idea. Thanks, Percy, for your help.

TALIESIN: You're welcome. Wait until nightfall.

SAM: Huh? Oh. All right.

MATT: As she leans forward, she goes, "Huh. Like
father, like daughter, aye?"

SAM: You could say so. I heard you had quite a
night last night at the bar.

MATT: "Hm. Felt good. I like breaking faces."

SAM: Apparently you're very good at it. I saw-- I
got a glimpse of your victims over there.

MATT: (laughs) "They had it coming. Don't know
why, but I had a feeling somewhere in their life,

"they probably deserved it. Most men do."

SAM: Yep, you're right about that. Stay away from
all men. Forever.

MATT: "They were fuckwits. Their faces were so
punchable."

SAM: I know that feeling. Listen, I've come to get
you out of here.

MATT: (laughs) "Apparently you've not done that
very well."

SAM: Don't worry. I've still got some tricks up my
sleeve. Just wanted to make sure you're all right.

Did they hurt you in any way?

MATT: "Only one person's really hurt me
recently."

LIAM: Cold as ice.

MATT: "Look, Scanlan. Father. I spent a lifetime
hating you. I'd imagined the moment we would

"finally meet for so long, planned it out in my
head, had it all worked out. My idea of you, what

"you'd be like, what you'd say, and you know what?
Up until last night, I was pretty spot-on. I don't

"know what I wanted. I have a lot to process, to
think about. But I'd prefer not to do it in this

"dank cell, so if you have a way out, please, now's
the time to do it."

SAM: You think now? All right, is anyone
watching?

MATT: There are two guards that are not watching
directly, but they're muscled up against the bars

and keeping an eye over the shoulder.

SAM: I'll need a distraction. Do you think you can
come up with one?

MATT: Her eyes turn for a second and she goes,
(chuckles) "I think that can be done." She leans

up to the side of the bar and peeks her head out
for a second. Closes her mouth, cups it with her

hand, and you start hearing from the opposite side
of the room, through arcane ventriloquism, these

three different male voices going, "I'll fuck you
up!" You hear punches and you hear all of this

screaming and chaos. At which point, the two
guards look over. One of them gives the other a

motion, and they both run off to see the other
side of the room. She looks back at you.

SAM: You'll have to teach me that trick. And then
I Dimension Door us out onto the street.

MATT: As you reach for her, she still pulls away a
little bit, but you still grab hold and (poof)

puff of smoke. You guys (magic sound) appear
outside, landing a couple of feet above the ground

and catch yourselves. You're off to the side of
the stockade where it meets with one of the nearby

walls. No one seems to immediately notice you,
other than a couple of people that are walking

down the street that see two individuals appear
out of the ether and land onto the ground.

SAM: All right. Let's get out of here. Percy, I
didn't wait quite until nightfall.

TALIESIN: I assumed you wouldn't. We're already
walking back.

SAM: All right, we'll catch up.

MATT: You guys head back towards Greyskull? All
right.

MARISHA: I'm glad I came in handy for that field
trip.

SAM: Oh, shit! Burn it down! Burn the stockades
down!

LIAM: I'd also like to point out that Grog's
single nut-flick did more damage than your two

full-on punches.

(laughter)

MATT: This is true! All right. Eventually, you
guys make your way back. As you do, you gather,

and about five minutes behind you, the rest of Dr.
Dranzel's troupe arrives, looking a little bit

frazzled and a little confused. He steps forward
to the rest of you and goes, "I don't know what

"you did, but there's a manhunt for two gnomes
right now over by the Promenade. But good on you.

"Might want to lay low for a little bit."

SAM: Good thinking.

TALIESIN: The troupe may want to get out of town
for a bit, as well.

MATT: "I think that's the plan. We were going to
stay a few more days-- we had a couple of gigs

"lined up, but I think we've pressed our luck far
enough, so all right! Everyone feeling

"spectacular?" He claps his hands and the rest of
the troupe start grabbing their goods and their

instruments and what little cases and bags they
do. Kaylie runs off real fast and comes back with

her one over-the-shoulder satchel that carries all
of her worldly belongings. "Then let us be off."

He gives a little tip of the hat to Scanlan with a
nod. Looks to the rest of you. "We greatly

"appreciate your hospitality. We're sorry for any
confusion, misunderstandings, and general

"debauchery. Good night to you all." He turns
around and they all start walking out. Kaylie

begins stepping and she stops and looks over her
shoulder towards you, Scanlan, and says, "Don't

"come looking for me. When I'm ready, I'll come
find you." She turns back around and leaves.

SAM: Oh, shit.

MARISHA: I liked them. They were fun.

TRAVIS: Did you tell her you're her dad yet?

SAM: That's not-- She figured it out, Grog.

TRAVIS: That's awkward.

SAM: Yes. Yes, it is.

LAURA: They forgot to grab their gold. I like
them!

MATT: That they did, actually.

MARISHA: Maybe they thought we were even?

LIAM: Probably should check the silverware,
though, in the keep.

LAURA: Oh. I run and check the silverware.

TALIESIN: I check to make sure the skull is still
there.

MATT: The kitchen is cleaned out.

LAURA: No!

MATT: All of the silverware.

LAURA: What about Jarett? He was supposed to be
keeping an eye on them.

MARISHA: Yeah, what the fuck? What's with Jarett?

MATT: Jarett was one man keeping track of multiple
people, with one very small, quick child that you

were the only one able to keep an eye on.

LAURA: I hate your friends!

MARISHA: They were good drinking buddies.

SAM: They're all right. They've got their good
qualities, too.

TRAVIS: Just the silverware's missing?

LAURA: What about our rooms? Is it just the
kitchen that's cleaned out, or did they take

everything in the keep?

MATT: Oh, no, no, no. None of the rooms have been
touched, except for the guest room where some of

them were staying.

LAURA: There was shit in there, anyway.

MATT: Yeah, there wasn't much in there, but a
couple of candlesticks, things that were just

decor. Anything that could possibly be hocked for
a little bit of change from those rooms is gone.

LAURA: They don't know I shopped for everything at
Home Goods, so joke's on them.

MATT: You gather probably no more than two to
three hundred gold worth of materials were taken

in total. That includes fine cookware, that
includes decor, that includes a couple of previous

art pieces that you had collected--

TALIESIN: Please tell me they stole the giant
painting.

SAM: It's not here yet.

TALIESIN: Damn it!

MATT: It hasn't been delivered yet. That's
probably in transit.

TALIESIN: No!

LIAM: And where would it have been hidden on their
person?

TALIESIN: They could have rolled it up and stuck
it where the sun don't shine.

MARISHA: A 20 by six foot canvas?

TALIESIN: Some caverns run deep.

SAM: I'm going to check my bed just to see if
there's any shit on it.

MATT: You go and inspect pretty extensively. It
does not appear that anyone has left you a Scanlan

surprise.

MARISHA: Percy and I go downstairs to make sure
the skull is still there.

MATT: Skull is still in the workshop, yes.

MARISHA: Beautiful.

MATT: What do you guys want to do right now?

TALIESIN: I'm going to spend some time working on
the special barrel and see if I can get that up

and running.

MARISHA: What time is it?

MATT: At this point, it's closing towards dusk.

LAURA: We should heal up and get ready to take
this to Whitestone in the morning, yes?

MARISHA: I guess so.

TALIESIN: 18.

MATT: 18? All right. You disassemble elements of
the pistol. You get the feeling that the way it's

weighted, to attach the hand mortar to the pistol,
it's still going to continue to be a very unwieldy

thing. You are probably best to design them as
separate pieces. Unfortunately, the way the

pistol's balanced, for aim and such? The mechanism
that's required to lob an object for the mortar to

be able to do any help with is going to throw off
your ability to aim much with the pistol, going

forward. Not to mention increase the misfire score
by crazy amounts. But you could create them both

separately and swap out as needed.

TALIESIN: All right.

MATT: All right. You guys spend the evening. You
rest up, you're back to full health, you're good

to go. As the morning comes around--

TRAVIS: I have a question.

MATT: Yes?

TRAVIS: Can I wait until everyone goes to bed and
can I make my way into Percy's workshop?

TALIESIN: It's locked.

MATT: As you get to the workshop, you check the
door and it is, indeed, locked.

MARISHA: We stashed it.

TRAVIS: What's the door made of?

MATT: It's made of solid metal. It was constructed
per specifications to be able to withstand

concussive blasts in case of accident from the
inside.

TRAVIS: Can I try to pick the lock?

MATT: You have no lockpicks.

TRAVIS: Can I shove an axe in the lock hole?

MATT: You can.

SAM: Clang!

MATT: Make a strength check.

TRAVIS: I have a greatsword that's just a normal
greatsword.

LAURA: Are you going to try to shove it in the
lock?

TRAVIS: Yeah, like a credit card in the side of
the thing. Like a crowbar. That was crap.

MATT: What did you roll?

TRAVIS: Ten.

MATT: Ten. In trying to wedge the sword into the
side of the door, you eventually feel a shift as

you push. You feel it gives way, and you look and
withdraw the greatsword, which is now bent at an

angle to the side. Yeah, that sword's not going to
be functional in combat any further.

TRAVIS: All right, I go to bed.

MATT: Okay.

TALIESIN: Nothing good ever happens to you in my
workshop. It's just not a good place for you. Too

many things.

MATT: All right, so. Morning comes around. You
guys come back rested. As you each individually

come to consciousness and finding your way down,
the first thing you're met by is a very perturbed

Laina, who as soon as you come down, says, "I'm
terribly sorry. I went to make breakfast, and

"there's nothing to make breakfast with! I don't
know what happened."

LAURA: It's okay. Scanlan is going to buy all new
stuff for our kitchens.

SAM: I'm supposed to lay low, though.

LAURA: Oh, that's okay. You can give her all the
gold that she needs to buy new things for the

kitchen.

SAM: I have only--

LAURA: You have about a thousand gold because I
gave it to you.

SAM: I gave 50 to Percy, which you didn't use.

MATT: To buy basic cooking supplies, it wouldn't
be more than 30 gold to restock the entire

kitchen. It was more other elements of the keep.

SAM: Including the silverware?

MATT: Yeah.

SAM: Oh, great.

LAURA: It wasn't fancy silverware. It was
utilitarian.

MATT: It was decent. It was functional. It was
included with the keep.

SAM: All right, here's 50. Go get us a decent set
of silverware.

LAURA: And other things. Or send somebody else, if
you'd rather.

MATT: "I'm not much help around here right now, am
I? All right." And she runs off, returning a short

time later, with groceries, as well, that she
found while she was out. Makes a fresh meal for

all of you. Partway through breakfast, there is a
knock at the edge of the dining hall, and you see

Cordell, your half-orc guardian there. Has his
big, heavy crossbow at his side. "Sorry to bother

"you while you're eating. You have a messenger who
wishes to speak to you at the front gate."

LAURA: I'll go.

MATT: "All right. Follow me."

SAM: Vax never came home last night?

MATT: Did you come home? No? Vax has not showed up
yet.

SAM: Should we be worried?

TALIESIN: We're going to have to collect him
before we go.

MATT: As you go to the gate, it's opened up and
you can see there, standing by himself, Seeker

Asum. Hood back, bald halfling helm with his
tattoos greeting you. He goes, "Hello, Vex."

LAURA: Hi.

MATT: "I've come to request your presence at the
Precepts Stage within the Cloudtop District near

"dusk. All of Vox Machina, this evening, if you
don't mind."

LAURA: Oh. Well, why?

MATT: "Uriel and I have been in extensive
discussion these past few days, and the reveal of

"Riskel's betrayal has had a profound effect on
Uriel, and rumors have been spreading amongst the

"district and the higher order of the city. Uriel
is to make a statement regarding it and to prevent

"any political intrigue will talk to the
politically inclined populace first. As members of

"the council, we would like for you to be there to
help us based on the reaction. If you would be so kind?"

LAURA: Yes, of course. I'll tell the rest of the
group. We were planning on heading out to

Whitestone today, but we can put that off if it's
very important?

MATT: "It's rather important."

LAURA: All right. What were you guys fighting
about before? Can you tell me?

MATT: "It's nothing you need to worry about."

LAURA: Really? It looked kind of serious.

MATT: "I think tonight's discussion will absolve
any questions you have."

LAURA: Is anybody in trouble?

MATT: "No. You're fine. You've done nothing."

LAURA: Can I insight check him?

SAM: We should torture him to find out.

TALIESIN: I'm going to shoot off a limb.

LAURA: 23?

MATT: 23? He seems fairly forthright and honest.
There is a sense of urgency to him. He's really

insisting you guys be there.

LAURA: Okay. Well, we will be, then.

MATT: "Wondrous. I will notify the rest of the
council. I look forward to seeing you this evening."

LAURA: Yes, if you see my brother anywhere, can
you send him home?

MATT: "Yeah, I'll keep an eye out. I have a
network in the city. I can probably locate him

"within the hour, if need be."

LAURA: Thank you.

MATT: "No worries." He walks away. As he steps
away, you look for a second. You glance away and

look back, and he's gone.

LAURA: He is so sneaky. I need to train with him
more.

TALIESIN: Like Batman.

LAURA: I go back and tell everybody what he just
told me.

SAM: Oh my god!

LAURA: Right?

(laughter)

TALIESIN: I suppose we'll have to put it off for a
day, then.

SAM: Yes. Is the skull going to be safe here while
we're gone?

TALIESIN: I think so.

SAM: Can it see inside our keep? Can it channel
some beast?

TALIESIN: It's locked very far away right now, in
a very secure room.

SAM: But not secure magically.

MARISHA: Yeah. Percy, maybe me and you should make
some reinforcements or something?

LIAM: It's just radioactive material in the
basement. It's fine.

SAM: What if it's a portal? What if it can send a
dragon to us, or a worm or something?

TRAVIS: It did say as long as that house stands,
it will be very powerful.

TALIESIN: Well, do you think it would be safer
somewhere? Do you think there's something you

could conjure, perhaps, around it? Or should we
move it to another room?

LAURA: I feel like your room is very secure.

TALIESIN: We could always send it straight away to
Whitestone. But...

MARISHA: But we'd have to put it with someone
else, right?

TALIESIN: We'd have to let someone take it to
Whitestone. It could be there today. Or we could

keep it in my room, or we could move it perhaps
into the temple of Sarenrae?

LAURA: Maybe... how many times can you use that
little tree thing, Keyleth?

MARISHA: Once a day.

LAURA: Fuck.

MARISHA: I know. Or else I would totally run it
over and run it back.

TALIESIN: Oh. But you can run it over and run
back.

MARISHA: Oh, if I use your thing?

SAM: If you, if you go there, take the stone from
his sister and you can come right back.

LAURA: Yeah, take the stone from his sister and
come back.

MARISHA: I could.

LAURA: Let her know it's useless after the one
use.

SAM: Well, let's not lie to Percy's sister.
(laughs)

TRAVIS: Is it safe in Whitestone? I mean, the
temple of Sarenrae is at least here.

LAURA: Got a good idea. What if you go, you don't
take the skull, you tell Allura what's going on,

bring her back with you through the tree!

SAM: We keep summoning Allura to solve our magical
problems. We brought her to Whitestone and now

we're bringing her back?

LAURA: She's really, really smart!

SAM: All right...

LAURA: She can go right back, you can send her
right back.

MARISHA: What if she doesn't come?

LAURA: Well, then you come back--

MARISHA: I'd be using a 6th-level spell as a
glorified messenger? 'Hey, we found a scary skull.'

SAM: Hey, you used it yesterday for no reason,
too.

(laughter)

TALIESIN: Wow! Oh my god.

TRAVIS: (high-pitched) The sickest burn. That's
the sickest burn! Oh fuck!

TALIESIN: And somehow the coffee has not been
poured on your head. That's the greatest magic

trick I've seen all night. How are you still dry?
It's witchcraft.

MARISHA: You know what, Scanlan, why don't you
figure out how to get the damn skull back to

Whitestone by yourself, how's that?

TALIESIN: Why don't we just let it be in the room
for now-- Let's let it be in the room for now,

nothing happened last night.

MARISHA: Nothing happened last night, but it seems
like a ticking time bomb.

TALIESIN: I'm going down, I have to go get my
things anyway, so I'm going to go down. Everything

seems fine, doesn't it?

MATT: Untampered, room seems left as it was.

LAURA: It doesn't seem tampered with at all, the
door?

TALIESIN: The door is steel reinforced, lined and
bolted to the wall; it's not going anywhere. This

room is designed to explode.

MARISHA: I mean, I could-- all right.

LAURA: Maybe we should make sure there's, like,
fabric over it.

TALIESIN: It's hidden in the room.

TRAVIS: Maybe we should go in and check on it.

MARISHA: I could Wall Of Stone another kind of box
around it.

TALIESIN: I go into the room, I shut the door
behind me. I check my hiding place.

MATT: Untouched.

TALIESIN: And it's untouched and perfectly
reasonable. I return it to my hiding place. Which,

if I have to reveal it later, I will happily tell
you where it's hidden. Shut and lock the door

behind me. Everything's fine.

TRAVIS: That's a relief.

TALIESIN: Let's find your brother.

MARISHA: All right. I guess we're staying in
town.

SAM: We're leaving the skull?

MARISHA: Seems okay.

SAM: (laughing) Let's at least post Jarett here.

MARISHA: Yeah, let's post someone here, I guess.

MATT: Jarett's already, by the way, off to the
side listening to this whole conversation.

SAM: Do you ever sleep, Jarett?

MATT: "I sleep when I'm not needed. But it seems
right now I am needed, and I am more than happy to

"stand guard. It's what you pay me for."

SAM: You're so cool.

LAURA: You're seriously the coolest guy.

MARISHA: Yeah, you're great.

MATT: "You're being absolutely ridiculous.
Continue."

(laughter)

TALIESIN: If anything strange happens, make note
of it.

MATT: "Of course."

MARISHA: Don't let anyone in or out.

TALIESIN: Well, he can't, he doesn't have the key
anyway.

MATT: "No. This is true."

MARISHA: I'm just saying.

MATT: "It'll be done."

MARISHA: All right.

MATT: "All right."

MARISHA: Okay?

MATT: "Okay."

LAURA: We need to give him a raise.

MATT: "Yes, you do."

SAM: Why don't you just take it from my money?

TALIESIN: I throw ten gold at him right now, just
in lieu of-- I throw ten gold.

MATT: "Very generous of you, Percival."

TALIESIN: It's the very least.

MATT: And he sets up his chair in the far corner,
staring at the door again, and sets his crossbow

over his shoulder and just sits waiting.

TALIESIN: Let's go find your brother.

MATT: Now, Vax, what are you up to?

LIAM: I mean, I'm assuming-- I didn't go there to
find anything, but I went just to think, and I

didn't see anything by chance, no?

MATT: Nope. You detect no movement inside
whatsoever. Dark windows over the course of the

evening, no sign.

LIAM: All right, well, I guess I'll go back to the
keep.

MATT: Okay.

LIAM: And I will sit up. No one's there? I'll sit
up in my sister's room.

MATT: All right. Well, as you guys are walking
back--

LIAM: Stealth, please. I'm not walking in the
open.

MATT: All right, make a stealth check.

LIAM: 27.

MATT: 27? All right. All of you that are out
looking for him, make a perception check.

MARISHA: 29.

TALIESIN: 18.

MATT: As you guys spend a good portion of the
morning scouting about the usual paths that you

take as a group, knowing the back alleys and the
various paths that you walk through Emon to ensure

that you avoid the main thoroughfares and the
most-used walkways, as you're glancing about you

see a quick shadow shift past about the size of
the individual you are seeking.

TALIESIN: (puffs air) Sorry.

MATT: You look over and you see Vax dart off
around the corner and dodge down an alleyway.

MARISHA: Vax? Vax!

MATT: You faintly hear Keyleth's voice behind
you.

LIAM: Not now, Kiki. And I just keep going.

LAURA: Did you find him?

MARISHA: Nope.

LAURA: Vax!

MATT: You guys spend the better part of the day
searching for him. Asking questions, nobody has an

idea. A few individuals try and squeeze some gold
out of you. You eventually manage to gather they

have no idea what they're talking about. By about
early afternoon, two o'clock in the afternoon, you

eventually make your way back to the keep,
figuring that he'll find his way back if he

doesn't want to be found. Upon arrival, the guards
also haven't seen him. But once you go up to your

room to get into more comfortable attire, your
brother is sitting inside your room, waiting.

LAURA: Well, there you are. What's going on?

LIAM: Look, everything's fine. All right?

LAURA: I believe you. Fully.

LIAM: Everything's fine. I just don't know what
we're doing, anymore.

LAURA: What do you mean?

LIAM: I don't know what we're doing, I don't know
why we're doing it. I don't know! I've just been

thinking about it, I mean, what is the point of
our lives?

LAURA: Well, that's a very deep question.

LIAM: Yeah. It's fine, let's go. I don't know what
I missed. I can go wherever everybody wants to go.

LAURA: No. (sigh) Sit down! Seems like a problem
in your mind. Are you mad because we're stealing

gold? Are you mad because everybody's running off
in directions and you can't keep up? Are you mad

because you almost died?

LIAM: No. When it was just you and me, I knew what
we were doing. We were just trying to survive.

LAURA: Right! That's really all we're doing now,
just on a grander scale.

LIAM: (sighs) We're running into this shit on
purpose now. Which is all right, when there's

reason. I don't always know why we're doing the
things we do. It was fun, breaking into that

house. I'm good at it!

LAURA: Yes, you are.

LIAM: I don't know why we did it! I don't know why
I'm working with a large fucking beast of a man

who seems to despise me. Day after day.

LAURA: He doesn't despise you.

LIAM: The fuck he doesn't. I don't know why we're
doing it. I don't know why we're with most of

these people! And I love these people, but I don't
know why we're doing it! And I just want you to

think about a little bit too. And I walk out the
door.

LAURA: I get ready for the evening.

MATT: Okay. As the sun draws across the sky,
pushing towards dusk as the light blue begins to

turn to a somewhat purplish-orange hue, you all
gather your materials, whatever attire you wish to

bring, and make your way towards the Cloudtop
District. Anyone wish to do anything else?

LIAM: I'm going through my vast array of cloaks.

(laughter)

LIAM: And I'm taking the other one. And putting
of all my many two cloaks, I'm going to put

the other one on.

MATT: All right.

SAM: Can I swing by Gilmore's and just see if he
or-- Sherri works there?

MATT: Sherri works there.

SAM: Sherri works there, if they're around?

MATT: Going to ask. Sherri kinda greets you as you
enter and goes, "Hello, Scanlan. Gilmore is back

"in Westruun, weeks away from opening his new
establishment, but can I help you?"

SAM: Two things. One, when he returns, he made me
a potion, a while back. I'm running a bit low. It

was a scrying sort of thing. When he gets back,
maybe he can whip me up another batch for next

time I come pay a visit, but also-- oh, yes?

MATT: She puts up her hand for a second and walks
off through the beaded curtains in the back, and

comes back with Gilmore.

SAM: Oh!

MATT: Gilmore steps forth. "Terribly sorry,
Scanlan, trying to keep business right now kind of

"on the DL. There's a special event tonight." And
you see how dressed up he is. "I imagine, being

"part of the council, you're probably invited
too."

SAM: Yes, I was just going there now.

MATT: "Oh, well, I'll accompany you!"

SAM: All right, we'll save business for another
day.

MATT: "Well, what business did you have?"

SAM: I just wondered-- I may want to try to find
someone at some point tonight. I don't know how.

MATT: "Hmm, scrying. We've had this conversation
before."

SAM: Yes, but a different sort, a less fecal
sort.

MATT: "Not going to lie, I'm very glad to hear
that."

LIAM: Fecal matters.

SAM: I don't know how to scry, I don't know how to
find someone or what I need. I may have a hair

strand or two, but I don't have much to go on.

MATT: "That should be plenty. If I can't help you,
I know a few that might be able to."

SAM: All right.

MATT: "But! Nevertheless." And he adjusts his
collar and he's very, very well dressed in his

long, deep navy robes, a high collar that nips at
the side of his neck. "Shall we?"

SAM: Absolutely. You lead!

MATT: He leads you out towards the Cloudtop.

TRAVIS: Could I have also gone to Gilmore's?

MATT: If you'd like to.

SAM: Oh! Oh, Grog! Oh, Jesus!

TRAVIS: No no no, just, we go in together and when
he's talking to Gilmore, I find one of the lesser

clerks and I say: Do you sell lockpicks here?

MATT: The other clerk is probably a new hire, you
haven't seen him here before. Young, early 20s,

very, very thin hair, kind of waify. "Lockpicks?
This isn't--"

TRAVIS: Yeah, you know. I keep locking myself in
the shitter and I'm really tired of asking people

to come let me out. It's really--

MATT: "I wish I could help. Those are outlawed,
I'm sorry. That's not really--"

TRAVIS: Look, I've got these huge clumsy-fuck
hands. Is there anything you could give me, maybe

magical, that would just keep me from being
embarrassed in front of my friends? It smells so

bad and then they all come and the door opens and
it's just awful!

MATT: As you're getting closer and closer to him,
this, looming goliath who's feigning fear and

worry in his face, the guy just retracts. "I'm
sorry! I don't-- We're closing shop!"

TRAVIS: No, do you have like a wand or a potion or
like, a thing--

MATT: "Good night!" And he runs up the stairs to
the second floor.

TRAVIS: Fucking shit.

(laughter)

TRAVIS: Lovely goods you have here. I'll let
myself out.

MATT: "We'll come with you don't worry!" He puts
his other arm out.

TRAVIS: All right.

MATT: The three of you arm in arm.

LIAM: He's currently like this.

MATT: Yeah! He's, like, lifted.

SAM: It's the Wizard of Oz!

MATT: Yeah! You skip along, the rest of you make
your way to the Cloudtop, and you make your way

around the stage and it's against the wall, near
one of the entrances to the Cloudtop, but on the

interior. And you can see there is a rather large
stage up against the wall. There is already a

crowd gathered. You see merchants, highborn
families, political guests, upper-station

military, a number of well-dressed representatives
from all over Emon have gathered for this. You

guys meet up with the rest of the group and you
kind of, you know, gravitate. Gilmore gives

everyone a quick wave and gives you a respectful
nod. "Aha! Yes!" and he wanders off and starts

mingling with some of the other guests. Just as
the sun vanishes beneath the distant horizon, a

procession of palace guards approach the area, the
crowd parting, as Uriel arrives with the escort,

flanked by his family, and the current inner
council of Tal'Dorei with Arbiter Brom, Seeker

Asum, Tofor Brotorus. Allura is absent of course,
for being in Whitestone. They all step onto the

stage along with the guards as well, as cheers and
light applause begins to break out. Not crazy go

wild, but just like (muted) "Hooray."

MARISHA: Rich people clapping, sure.

MATT: Yeah, you know.

MATT: Guards have already set up
a few chairs on the stage. Uriel begins to sit on

one as his family gathers behind it, and he puts
his hand out and motions to everybody to go ahead

and hush down. As he does, he stands up from his
chair. "Friends and family. Allies of this fair

"city of Emon. Houses-in-arms to the Tal'Dorei
family. Guests, guardians and law-keepers alike. I

"thank you for coming on such short notice. Now, it
has not escaped me that talk spreads quickly

"within these walls, and rumors only seek to
undermine trust. It is true Lord Riskel Daxio,

"honored member of our council and overseer of
development within Emon for many years, has

"unfortunately passed away. We mourn our friend,
and ask you all to respect his legacy enough to

"not to smear his name. That being said, this was
just one of many hardships that has befallen our

"council and my family this past year. Many that
have left me with a terrible burden. We've been

"faced with deceit, and I failed to see it. We've
been beset with allies in need, and I have been

"noncommittal in aiding them. We've been clouded by
demonic powers, and I've failed to protect my

"family. And my responsibility to all of you. I
look back at my bloodline, at my father and his

"father before him, and I plainly see what I am
not. These times are different. This wonderful

"city has grown these past centuries into something
grand: a beacon of civilization, here in these

"lands that my ancestors gave name to. My family
has built us up, and I feel that there is little

"more my family can accomplish for the greatness of
these lands. It has outgrown our meager guidance.

"I did not choose to be your sovereign; it was by
blood that I came into this. And I did my very,

"very best to live up to your expectations. I can
see the future of you all and I wish to safeguard

"it, by leaving it not in one hand, but the hands
of many. As of the end of this week, I will be

"stepping down as your sovereign. The Tal'Dorei
bloodline will no longer hold the fate of this

"realm. We will instead leave the council to rule."
And he looks about at the other council members,

on out to you, out to the rest of the group.
"There will be a chosen few, exemplary members of

"our society, who will step up and aid in this
task, and join the council as well. You, the

"peoples of Emon, will be the ones to guide us to a
new age of prosperity." At this point now the

claps come in again and some cheers happen.
There's a little bit of confusion in the crowd,

but for the most part everyone seems to be into
it. At this moment, one of the guards hurries up

the side of the stage and, you notice, whispers
something into Asum's ear, who leans over and

gives a nod and worried expression. Vex.

LAURA: (giggles) Yay!

SAM: (radio DJ voice) Don't forget to subscribe to
Geek and Sundry, so you can see archives of

the show and many others! I don't even know--

LAURA: Wait.

TRAVIS: It's hard, right? When one ear's in and
one ear's out, it's tough. I was trying to plug it.

SAM: Remember, Liam doesn't really hate Travis in
real life!

(laughter)

LAURA: Wait, wait. As soon as I notice
that, I touch Grog and Vax's shoulders

and I point up really fast.

MATT: You look up and-- you guys all gather this
as well. You can see, piercing out of some of the

cloud cover above, what looks to be two
fast-moving streaks of color, black and red. They

just-- (whoosh). And then you can't see them any
more.

LAURA: Could I tell from my favored enemy-ness
that it was dragons?

MATT: You can make a hefty perception check if you
like to see exactly how much detail you can make out.

TRAVIS: Can I look up, too?

MATT: No. I'm giving her this because of her
really high perception.

LAURA: No, that was wrong. 23.

MATT: 23. It's hard to make out details from this
distance. They're moving quick.

LAURA: One black and one red?

MATT: Uriel now goes, "I am beyond confident that
all doubts in the capabilities of those I leave

"the city to, and more--" And it's at this point
you start hearing bells going off around the city.

Tops of walls in the distance. You recognize
these. These are warning bells. At which point the

crowd starts murmuring and getting nervous, and
Uriel puts his hand out. "Please, please. I--"

LAURA: Can I use my Primeval Awareness to see if
it's actually dragons close by?

MATT: Okay. You begin to concentrate on that for
the moment. Asum now steps up and says, "Everyone,

"if I might ask you to all quickly make your way to
your respective homes. There is a small emergency

"we must attend to." At this point, you guys hear
this (whoosh) sound and you turn around just in

time to see what looks to be a large, larger than
you've seen before, white dragon just slam into the

side of Allura's tower in the distance. Claws
clunk into the side, digging into the stonework,

wings unfurled, it looks into the upper window of
where her actual parlor is and peeks in for a

second before just unleashing a blast of icy cold
magical breath into the inside of the tower. You

can see now, screams start tearing around you as
the guards start getting their weapons ready. At

which point, the dragon pulls its head back and
looks about at everyone screaming, and pushes off

the tower. As it does you see the stonework crack,
and the top of Allura's tower shatter--

LAURA: Oh, my god!

MATT: -- and then begin to collapse, smashing into
the city streets around you. At which point, the

dragon (wingbeats) and takes off again above you.
At this point in time: utter chaos has been

unleashed, and you can see now the guards are
rushing Uriel off the table. You guys are there

caught amongst this chaos. At this very moment, as
the white dragon heads deeper into the city, you

hear a loud impact that silences the chaotic air
around you, as the wall that the stage is

buttressed up against now has perched above it an
enormous vision of death: a grinning ancient green

dragon. Its wings are curled around its form as it
looks down at the rest of you in the middle of

this open space and goes, "Delicious cattle.
Raishan enjoys the taste of fear."

LAURA AND MARISHA: Raishan?

MATT: At which point it leaps down onto the stage,
crushing part of it. I would like you all to roll initiative.

MARISHA: No, what?!

SAM: We can't fight four dragons. Can we?

MARISHA: Wait, did you say four? He didn't say
four.

LAURA and SAM: There's a red and a black, a white
and a green.

TRAVIS: Are the red and black dragons?

LAURA: They were red and black-- of course they
were fucking dragons!

TRAVIS: You're sure?

LAURA: Everything else was dragons; why wouldn't
it be dragons?

TALIESIN: For the love of God and all that is
holy.

MARISHA: Oh Jesus Christ, Taliesin.

LAURA: Are we fighting something now?

MARISHA: Are we just fighting one?

SAM: Oh, hi, dragon!

LAURA: Oh, hi, dragon, you're my favourite
customer.

MATT: Grog and Vex were there. Percy was here.
Pike was here.

SAM: Don't worry, I'll kill it with music.

MARISHA: Holy balls!

MATT: And this is the chaotic pattern of
individuals amongst here.

SAM: My god, look at all those fuckers!

MATT: All right! Now, if I could go ahead and have
the initiative scores from you guys. 25 to 20?

TRAVIS: 20 again.

MATT: Anybody else? All right. Okay. 20 to 15?

LIAM: 15 again.

MARISHA: 15 as well.

MATT: All right. Ten to five?

LAURA: 14.

MATT: Oh, 14, sorry. 14.

SAM: 13.

MATT: Scanlan, Pike is after you. Percy, what did
you get?

TALIESIN: Nine.

MATT: All right.

LAURA: The castle looks really badass. It's just
off of camera.

MATT: Is it? Let me see if I can scoot this
forward a little bit for you guys. Now. Top of the

round, Grog you're up.

LAURA: Are we really fighting this right now?

MATT: Right there. You're right there, where the
red base is.

LAURA: What's happening?

MARISHA: I dunno, what the fuck do we do?

TRAVIS: Well, I only do one thing-- (yelling) I go
into a rage! And a frenzied rage! And I take out

Craven Edge, and I say, how do you feel about
dragon?

MATT: "I think it sounds delicious; let's try a
taste."

TRAVIS: (laughs) Great Weapon Master-- I run up to
the dragon and hack away!

MATT: All right, make your strikes.

TRAVIS: All right, fucking hell, where's that son
of a bitch? 19.

MATT: 19 misses.

SAM: 19 misses?

MATT: Yes.

TRAVIS: Everybody hear that?

MARISHA: Dragon.

TRAVIS: 22.

MATT: Just barely hits.

MARISHA: It has an AC of 22. It's some bullshit.

TRAVIS: (mutters) That'll miss.

SAM: Wait, how do I do anything to it?

MATT: Vex, you are familiar with dragons, as one
of your enemies. Only the most ancient and

powerful of dragons ever reach this size.
Chromatic dragons are very selfish entities and do

not usually work with individuals of other color
patterns. The fact that this is this coordinated

between multiple is a very, very bad sign. You're
suddenly brought back to a singular moment in your

past when you recall seeing four orbs embedded in
a wall.

LAURA: Yeah, no, I think we-- We brought this on
ourselves.

LIAM: Chickens come home to roost.

MATT: So, Grog, damage on the one strike?

TRAVIS: Just on the one. Oh, yeah right, I'm sorry
I was so caught up in the fact that I'm just

literally going up against death incarnate-- hey!

MARISHA: We had no fucking reason to go into that
basement.

TRAVIS: 19.

MATT: 19? Okay, 19 damage, good to know. All
right, that ends your turn. First, it is Raishan.

Raishan-- (roars). As you can see now, this
burbling cloud of greenish black fume just spills

out of its open jaws, outward towards the crowd.

LAURA: Jesus!

MATT: All right.

SAM: Jesus Crit!

MATT: I need Grog, Vex, Pike, and Vax, and Percy
to all make a constitution saving throw.

MARISHA: Am I in there as well?

SAM: I was in there as well, I think.

MATT: You were as well, yeah. You guys were as
well. So all-- Yep. Pretty much everyone but--

heh-- everyone but Trinket, probably for the
best.

TRAVIS: Ten plus eight is 18.

SAM: This is a constitution saving throw?

MATT: Correct.

SAM: Can I use Cutting Words on this? Is this a
magical effect? No, wait.

MATT: No this isn't a saving throw thing. It just
happens.

SAM: Oof!

LAURA: Bad?

SAM: Oh yeah! (laughs)

SAM: Five.

TALIESIN: 14 with resolve.

MATT: Okay.

MARISHA: Seven.

LIAM: 14.

LAURA: 20.

TRAVIS: 18.

MATT: Okay. All of you take 66 points of poison
damage, as you feel your lungs and your outer

flesh begin to burn and curl.

LAURA: 20 didn't save?

MATT: Nope. The rest of the crowd around you
screams out in horrible pain as the rest of them

gasp and fall to the ground.

MARISHA: Holy fuck, he just took out the entire
council.

TRAVIS: If I had resistance to poison damage
because of the Belt of Dwarvenkind, is that halved?

MATT: You take that halved, yes. You take only
33.

TRAVIS: Oh, fuck me. I'm like, I can't remember--
I can't remember what I'm trying to do. We got to go!

MATT: Actually, before your turn is over, the
dragon (whoosh) repositions itself for the rest of

the crowd over there. You get an attack of
opportunity against it, if you want.

TRAVIS: Oh hey, awesome. That's a 19.

MATT: 19? That does not hit. You go to strike--
it's already out of the way and you find yourself

even amongst your rage shaken by this, as you look
around for the first time and realize that the

crowds of people that were around you are now face
down, unmoving on the ground, amongst the open

space. As it steps across the wood as it lands,
ruining the last bit of stage and landing on the

opposite side, Keyleth, it's your turn.

MARISHA: Are there any trees nearby?

TRAVIS: Wouldn't mind turning into that mist right
now.

MARISHA: No shit-- I didn't learn it! Go ahead.

MATT: There is a tree. There's a tree about 100
feet in that direction.

MARISHA: 100 feet?!

LAURA: Or go inside.

MARISHA: All right, everyone's around me, more or
less?

MATT: Yeah.

MARISHA: I slam my staff on the ground and I cast
Anti-Life Shell and I say, (shouts) everyone in

the shell-- we're running!

MATT: Okay. How big is the radius of the shell?

MARISHA: It's not that big. It's ten feet radius,
so you guys are going to have to get close to me.

MARISHA: Ten feet.

LIAM: That's enough for all of us.

MARISHA: That's enough for all of us if we
gather.

MATT: That's your radius there.

SAM: I'm right there already!

MATT: All right.

MARISHA: Pike and Scanlan are in it, everyone else
needs to get close.

MATT: Yep, all right, and you're going to stay
there? Wait for everyone to gather to you, or are

you just going to run and everyone else has to
catch up? Which, if everyone else makes a dash

movement, they could probably get to you next
round.

TRAVIS: Yeah, just go.

MARISHA: All right, yeah, I'll do like 20 feet,
not my full 30 but enough to where people-- no,

fuck it, I'll do 30 feet.

MATT: Okay, so you're 30 feet up to the edge
there. All right, that ends your turn. Vax.

LIAM: I click my boots, and I-- Shit, where is
everybody?

LAURA: Running towards Keyleth.

LIAM: I yank Trinket by the fur on his butt and
say, come on Trinket! And then start running

backwards and grabbing at my sister's cloak as I
go towards Keyleth.

MATT: Okay, with the boots of haste you get up
within this area pretty easy. Trinket turns and

sees you run and looks over towards you, which,
it's your next turn.

LAURA: Okay. I don't know why we're not running
inside, instead of away. Are we running?

MARISHA: We're running to the tree. So we can
Transport Via Plants, was the thought.

LAURA: Got it. Okay, I'm going to shout out in
Draconic, and I'm going to say: Raishan! Is that

his name?

MATT: Raishan is what it seemed to refer to itself
as.

LAURA: Raishan!

MARISHA: You got it, you got it!

LAURA: So sorry for whatever pissed you off so
bad--

SAM: All right, you had it.

LAURA: Your fight's with us, not with this city.
Leave the townspeople alone. And I take off

MATT: Okay. I imagine you tell Trinket to do the
same?

LAURA: Yeah, yeah, of course.

MATT: So you rush up. Trinket comes and gathers
off to the side there--

MARISHA: He's going to kill us, yeah.

LAURA: Oh! Oh! Can I cast something?

MATT: We'll say, you are now there, for those who
want to see there, technically, there off to the side.

LAURA: Can I cast something?

MATT: To get over there would take both-- it would
take a dash action, so, no. Unless it's a bonus

action, then you could've, like Hunter's Mark if
you want to do something like that.

LAURA: I guess I'll do Hunter's Mark on him. I was
going to do Protection From Poison, so I might not

full dash.

MATT: Yeah, we'll say-- up to you.

MARISHA: Is that a radius thing or just for
yourself?

MATT: What do you want to do? Hunter's Mark?

LAURA: I'll Hunter's Mark. I'll just dash. I'm
just stupid.

LIAM: Matt, probably too late, but can I retcon--
say I'm holding my attack, since I didn't do

anything? Fine if not, I just thought--

MATT: With the haste you could've gotten there.
I'd say sure. So we'll let you have it. All right,

holding your attack for what?

LIAM: If it bears down on us.

MATT: Okay. Scanlan.

SAM: Me? I'm going to--

LAURA: (gasps) What about Gilmore!? Where is he?
He was right next to us.

MATT: I know.

TRAVIS: Just keep-- it's not about Gilmore right
now-- it's Scanlan's turn.

SAM: Where is he?

MATT: You can make a perception check.

SAM: 12.

MATT: 12? You don't see Gilmore anywhere. You look
about the bodies. You know the color of his robe,

but you don't see it anywhere on the ground. In
the chaos you really have no idea where he is.

SAM: Okay, I will-- (sings) Bigby's Hand! Shamone!
I will Bigby's Hand and put it right in front of

him and-- wow, it's so tiny compared to him!

(laughter)

SAM: I will use it as a Interposing Hand, blocking
him from approaching us. And I will use my

movement to climb into the circle of good.

MATT: Okay, you can get there. Okay, that ends
your turn.

SAM: And I'll-- shit.

MATT: Want to inspire somebody?

SAM: I guess, I mean, who's near him? Just Grog
right?

MATT: Right now, it's Grog, Percy and Pike are all
still out right now.

SAM: They'll get away right, they're going to run?
You're going to run, right? They'll be fine. All

right. I'll inspire Grog by saying, you're a
magnificent, handsome bastard, don't die!

MATT: All right. You take a d10 inspiration die.

TRAVIS: Thank you.

MATT: Pike is going to rush right here and is
going to attempt to cast Mass Cure Wounds. Mass

Cure Wounds as a 6th-level spell, so that's 4d8
plus five. Six creatures in a 30 foot radius. So

that'll be-- all of you. She's not going to do it
to herself. Or, she can't do it to Grog, so she

can get--

SAM: Grog, did you get hit?

MATT: She can get everyone but Trinket, but
Trinket seems fine, so-- that is seven, eight, 12,

15 plus five-- 20 points healed to all of you
guys.

SAM: Great, that'll help.

MATT: Except for Grog. That's going to be her
turn, and she just moves into the circle there

with the rest of her movement. That brings us to
Percy.

TALIESIN: I'm going to look for Gilmore.

MATT: Perception check.

TALIESIN: What!

LAURA: What happened to you, Percy?

TALIESIN: I don't know. Nine.

MATT: In this chaos, you have no idea where he is,
unfortunately.

TALIESIN: I'm going to hold my attack for if the
dragon comes towards us and I'm going to run into the--

MATT: You rush in. all right, at the end of your
turn, all the rest of these guys just go running.

Running as far away as possible, getting up, going
at full sprint all over. The guards are trying to

usher people out of the way. You have crying
mothers who can't find their kid--

LAURA: Oh god.

MATT: You have absolute chaos, and at this point
your hear in the distance a large explosion, as

you see a rolling cloud of fire rise up in the
distance over the mountain and the rest of regular

Emon, surrounding the Cloudtop District. This guy
over here's going to run as well. Beginning of

that turn, Grog you're up.

TRAVIS: I'm booking ass.

MATT: Okay, with a dash you get over to there.

SAM: Don't worry, my magical hand is there.
(laughs)

MATT: Raishan now is going to move over here.

SAM: Hey, but, I try to stop him!

MATT: The hand is going to try to--

SAM: Got a strength of 26.

MARISHA: That's awesome.

MATT: Interposing Hand just gives you cover
against the target, and it can't move the hand's

space if its strength is four, so it's not going
to move through the space, it's going to try and

move to the side. So instead of going after you
guys, the hand just moves with it and keeps it in

between, but it stays approximately here. It then
blows towards this crowd here, just catching Grog

in the corner. So Grog, I need you to make another
constitution save.

SAM: With inspiration.

MATT: With inspiration, if you'd like, if you need
it.

TRAVIS: (mutters) I'm okay. 26.

MATT: 26. You succeed, so you take we'll say 33
points of poison damage, halved, to 17. All right.

The rest of these guys except for-- Oh, no, Grog,
no! Grog, no! Those guys all survive, though

they're coughing and trying to get away. This
brings us to end of his turn. At this point in

time you look up and see (whoosh whoosh) another
set of wings come slamming down onto this side.

TRAVIS: Holy shit, look at the size of that thing.
What the hell?

SAM: (laughing) What is that thing?

MATT: As it lands, it looks down at the group and
then runs up the side of a building's rooftop up here.

MARISHA: Oh, Jesus Christ!

LAURA: So we're totally getting in the tree, I
know it, we're going to make it.

SAM: (laughs) The tree has been evaporated.

MATT: So, the rest of you guys, are you all moving
as a group forward?

SAM: Oh, hells yes!

MATT: Okay, you all go rushing-- You all go
dashing forward. At full speed, aside from Vax,

who can get to the tree this turn, the rest of you
are going to get halfway there.

MARISHA: Fuck!

MATT: So we'll say for the purposes of this
movement, we'll move it backward.

MARISHA: There's not a closer bush? Nothing closer
we can jump in?

MATT: No, not currently. the closest large enough
plant to use this ability--

SAM: Me and Pike get there, because I Dimension
Door us.

MATT: Okay. Actually, technically Grog can get
there too, and Vax and Pike and Scanlan. You guys

all get there. The rest of you are all inside the
Anti-Life Shell as you're running.

LIAM: I'm not going to leave the group, I'm going
to pace with them.

MATT: As you're pushing forward, the large black
dragon is just toying with you-- it's climbing

across the rooftops, and just watching you as you
run, and you hear it chuckling under its breath--

(menacing chuckle, whoosh, impact).

TALIESIN: Okay, is he taking to the air?

MATT: He takes to the air and jumps to another
rooftop.

TALIESIN: I'm going to try as I'm running-- do I
have enough time to try and take a shot?

MATT: You can, yeah.

TALIESIN: Am I going to be able to keep up with he
group?

MATT: Probably not.

TALIESIN: Never mind. Damn it, never mind.

MATT: So you're like, "shit," and you just keep
running. It now jumped over onto this rooftop and

Raishan has moved up toward the center and making
its way towards you. At this moment, another burst

of fire over the wall much closer goes (boom) and
swooping out of it, out of the flames, you see the

largest red dragon you've ever experienced come
swooshing through the flames, rises up past. The

two other dragons almost lower their heads as it
passes over.

SAM: Maybe they just want their gold back?

MATT: (whoosh) It swoops past without even
noticing you all, slams onto the top of the

palace, causing part of the entire throne room
glass-domed structure to (shattering noise)

shatter and break inward before it turns around
and plants itself outward. You've seen ancient

dragons-- this is large for an ancient dragon. In
fact, by its sheer size, you feel like you may

have have encountered this individual before when
you were passing through the plane of fire.

LAURA: That fuck that was like the biggest dragon
ever ever?

SAM: I don't remember that.

MARISHA: They guy we missed because we laid low
from him and he flew over and we were like:

'don't move,' and we missed him?

MATT: As it lands, the two other dragons take a
step back and recoil and snarl and you hear this

voice come just tearing through the center of the
Cloudtop District, saying, "Move on, Umbrasyl. I

"claim this as my domain now. The rest of you have
a task to complete. Go! I shall remain and set a

"new dominion of the Chroma Conclave."

SAM: (whispering) Chroma Conclave, that's so
cool!

MATT: At which point the two other dragons snap at
each other and they both-- the black one just

takes off in this distance. The green dragon
stalks for a second and then (snarls) angrily

turns around and climbs back onto the top of the
wall and then flies off into the distance as well,

both of them heading westward.

LAURA: West.

SAM: Oh, we're okay! Hey guys, it's fine.

MATT: You watch as they curve around and start
heading east.

LAURA: East?

MATT: At this point, you guys have now reached the
outskirts of the tree and you can see now this

large red dragon has planted itself--

LAURA: He died! He died!

MATT: He's fine, he flew off, it's fine. Just
begins breathing flames into the center of the

Cloudtop. As you can briefly see javelins being
thrown, bolts being shot, and you hear a wave of

screams in the distance as it rains death through
the center of Emon. You're at the tree, Keyleth.

Where are you going? Where are you going?

MARISHA: Where are we going, what are we doing? Do
we want go back to the keep?

MARISHA: What do we do?

LAURA: To the keep. Get underground.

TRAVIS: We need that skull.

MARISHA: What?!

TRAVIS: The skull grants a wish.

MARISHA: Grog!

SAM: Just get to the keep-- we can talk about it
there.

MARISHA: I cast Transport Via Plants on the
fucking tree!

MATT: The tree-- opens up and a small oval,
almond-shaped portal and you can see, it's in the

intensity, it's partially unstable but it's
keeping itself clean. You guys each dive in as the

Anti-Life shell vanishes.

LAURA: I shout: Gilmore! Before I go though.

MATT: Okay, and you come leaping through the
center of the tree as it closed behind you.

And we're going to end tonight's session on that
point!

LIAM: Thought we were going to be starting a
brand-new Shadowrun campaign next week!

SAM: You know, maybe the warden of that jail was a
dragon! And he invited his friends to find us.

LAURA: Did this all happen because we went back to
General Krieg's place? Did we kill the entire city

because we went back to General Krieg's place?

SAM: But think of the 4,000 gold we got! (laughs)

LAURA: Or maybe this was a long time coming and it
just happened to time up.

SAM: We'll find out.

MARISHA: I'm hoping it's the first, I'm hoping
it's the first.

MATT: We shall see if all of these interests come
to reveal themselves in the future--

LIAM: That was frightening, man.

MATT: -- for future episodes of Critical Role.

MARISHA: What did we do?

TRAVIS: You just massacred people. You just
committed genocide.

MATT: I just destroyed something that I built.
It's a really weird feeling.

LAURA: You destroyed your whole city, Matt.

MARISHA: The whole city, everyone's dead.

TRAVIS: Well done!

SAM: Not everyone, just a couple of dozen people.
And Gilmore.

LAURA: This is Act Two of the game, of the video
game that you're playing.

MARISHA: Holy fuck.

MATT: So with that, folks, as it closes on 11
o'clock, we have to get ourselves a rest for the

evening. We hope you've enjoyed tonight's game. I
forgot to announce earlier because I was feeling

all tense and-- yeah-- but we have a winner of our
initial drawing.

TALIESIN: It was a thing, wasn't it?

MATT: Earl Grey Austin was the winner tonight of
our Critical Role package.

So congratulations to you, buddy

TALIESIN: Someone won tonight! That's so nice.

LAURA: Someone won.

MATT: All right, well guys, have a wonderful
night, thank you all for watching, we'll see you

next Thursday.

MARISHA: I'm going to have an aneurysm.