MATT: Hello, everyone! And welcome to tonight's
episode of Critical Role, where a bunch of us

nerdy-ass voice actors play Dungeons and Dragons,
and occasionally curse at me before the stream.

You ass. Every time. You guys have caught him a
few times. Anyway, welcome to tonight's game.

Ashley Johnson unfortunately cannot join us this
evening. She's finishing up stuff at Blindspot,

but we hope to have her back next week.

TRAVIS: Yeah! Ashley Johnson! Blindspot!

LIAM: Come back, Shane!

MATT: Fingers crossed on that one. Sam Riegel also
will be here a little late-- more than usual late.

Travis will be taking over Scanlan until he
arrives.

LAURA: What if you kill him? What if he dies while
you're--

MATT: I know you were kidding, but now you have
to.

TRAVIS: There are better ways to go. Worse ways.
Whatever.

MATT: We'll see what transpires by the time he
gets here. Hopefully he'll have a character left.

TALIESIN: You can do a limerick. It'll be
exciting.

TRAVIS: Nope.

MATT: All right, so before we get started, we're
going to go ahead and run through our

announcements, so we can hop right in. We've got a
fun game ready for you guys tonight. First and

foremost, next Monday, at 7:00pm, here on Geek and
Sundry's Twitch stream, taking over the spot for

No Survivors, we'll be running a Critical Role one
shot. I'll be running a game of Pathfinder, where

our campaign actually started. A one-shot evening
with a host of great players. Taliesin and Marisha

will be joining us on that--

(cheering)

MATT: Way to prove me wrong!

LAURA: What happened?

LIAM: No singing Travis?

TRAVIS: He must have heard on Twitch and came
running.

SAM: Yeah, that can't happen. No way.

MATT: That's amazing. All right. Well, welcome!

TRAVIS: (laughs) Man, I didn't get to masturbate
in public.

MATT: Oh, night's still young, Travis.

LAURA: There's always tomorrow, darling.

LIAM: You think Grog is above that?

MATT: Remember, Twitch is live. That's not going
to happen. So yeah!

SAM: Oh shit, it's in my car.

MATT: What happened?

TALIESIN: What do you need, what do you need?

SAM: It's okay. I'm good.

LIAM: You're going to wing it? You remember your
numbers? Yeah, go get it, we're doing

announcements.

SAM: It's literally in my other car.

MATT: I can text you your character sheet.

SAM: But I have my PDF.

MATT: You have your PDF, you're good. Okay, so. I
think--

TALIESIN: Pathfinder!

MATT: Actually, if I recall, I think I may have
left that behind as well. I made an extra copy of

your character.

TALIESIN: I've made an extra copy of your
character.

MATT: There you go. He got this. Perfect.
Next Monday, 7:00pm-10:00pm, possibly a little

over that, we'll see. You know how these sessions
go. I'll be running a game of Pathfinder. Taliesin

and Marisha will be playing, as well as Ivan Van
Norman, as he is allowing us to take his spot for

No Survivors, he will be a player in that game, as
well as two special guests. We'll have Ashly

Burch, the wonderful, talented, amazing Ashly
Burch will be playing, as well as the incredible

Phil Lamarr. That'll be our troop of five
players.

TRAVIS: Justice League, Futurama, Pulp Fiction.

LAURA: Tales from the Borderlands?

MATT: Yup. Ashly Burch, who's currently up for a
BAFTA as well. 'Cause apparently if your name's

Ashley, you get nominated for a BAFTA.

LAURA: The BAFTAs already happened. She didn't.

MATT: But she was nominated!

TALIESIN: BAFTA nominee Ashly Burch.

MATT: Exactly.

LIAM: She's also a delightful knucklehead, so
BAFTA aside.

MATT: She's awesome people. Love her to death and
we're excited to have her on. But yeah, so that'll

be next Monday, 7:00pm Pacific here. Come watch,
it'll be fun! It'll be a little different than the

usual stuff here. Let's see. Next up, if my phone
would listen, there we go. Next week, next

Thursday is our 50th episode. Crazy.

TRAVIS: Explosion. Brain matter everywhere.

MATT: It's been crazy that we've gotten to a 50th
episode point, so it'll be a loose celebration.

We'll have a game, couple surprises, and we'll be
finishing it off with a grand Critmas finale for

this year until we get in the holidays.

LAURA: It's all happening that night?

MATT: We don't have a choice.

LAURA: Longest night ever!

MARISHA and MATT: Longest night ever!

MATT: We were going to try and find another night
maybe to do Critmas, but their scheduling won't

allow it.

LIAM: Cheers to a seven-hour stream.

TALIESIN: Oh god, I'm going to die.

MATT: They're prepping to try and make it
transition as fast as possible so we aren't here

until 4:00am.

MARISHA: And by they're you mean us?

MATT: Yes. Come next week for an awesome
spectacular! It'll be great! You'll enjoy it.

LAURA: Spectacular, spectacular.

MATT: Good. Marisha, you want to talk about
Hector's thing?

MARISHA: Hector Navarro, aka @Hectorisfunny on
Twitter, is the next host up for Signal Boost, and

his first episode happened this Tuesday and he's
fucking hilarious. You have to watch him.

TRAVIS: He is, it's great.

MARISHA: He's really funny. And this coming up
episode might be one of my favorite ones.

MATT: Yeah, the opening joke for this next episode
made me laugh out loud on the ground for five

minutes.

MARISHA: Yes, that's a true story.

LAURA: Don't build it up too much. Now they'll be
expecting it, Matt.

MATT: It's the best thing you've ever seen. You
will die it's so funny!

MARISHA: Anyway, give him love. Go watch it. It's
funny. It's very funny. And he has great things

that he boosts.

MATT: Exactly. Let's see. Also, if you guys
haven't seen it, we did a fun one-shot game with

Kinda Funny, with Greg Miller and their crew up
in San Francisco and the episodes have been going

up this week, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday and
Thursday, finishing with today, so if you want to

go check it out, it's a ridiculous two-hour game
we played, broken up over four episodes. I think

the full episode goes up standalone tomorrow, but
it's a lot of fun. We had Travis, Laura and

Marisha all playing in that game and--

LAURA: Different characters. We weren't our
regular characters, but equally fun, I thought.

MATT: Yeah. Who'd you play?

LAURA: I played Jester, a tiefling cleric.

MATT: Yes, it was delightful. Marisha, what'd you
play?

LAURA: Yeah.

MARISHA: What was my character's name?

TRAVIS: Wow!

LAURA: You were a dwarf paladin.

MARISHA: I know, but what was my character's
name?

TRAVIS: Holy shit.

LAURA: I don't remember.

MATT: I think it was Scottish McSweedsen. Accent
McDialect.

LAURA: Ooh, hello!

MARISHA: Look, a lot's happened in a couple weeks,
okay? I've moved, I've had a change of scenery--

MATT: It's true. But yeah, that's fun. Travis, you
got to play an Order of the Lycan Blood Hunter.

TRAVIS: I did. McLaren von Tosscobble. Oh, it was
fun. He has secrets. And bourbon. He had lots of

bourbon.

MATT: So much bourbon. We may have been drinking
during that game, I don't know. But go check it

out if you haven't. It was a lot of fun. Sam, you
had an announcement you wanted to make?

SAM: I play Zedd in the Ratchet and Clank game
that just came out.

LIAM: It's a good game.

SAM: It's a good game, it's getting good reviews!
I haven't seen what I did in it, but I assume it's

nerdy.

MATT: Good man. Fantastical. Liam--

LIAM: Hey man, I know you guys all love Wyrmwood
Gaming, but like this free-- the shipping is

killing me. Well the good news is, if you use the
code "critrole" you don't have to pay the

shipping, you just pay the cost for the box and they
send it to you.

LAURA: Oh. These glorious boxes?

LIAM: These boxes by Wyrmwood Gaming. The code
again is "critrole". Not only that, but they have

a Kickstarter going on. They are now selling, or
they're kickstarting their Sentinel deck box,

which looks like this.

MARISHA: Oh wait, I haven't seen this yet!

LAURA: So wait, this is a regular Sentinel deck
box.

LIAM: This is a regular. Now, for fans of the
show, you can get our logo etched into any of the

boxes at any tier.

LAURA: This is another box. This one has our logo
etched into it.

TALIESIN: What does it say at the bottom there?

TRAVIS: You can do a rubbing on the front.

LAURA: It says "How do you want to do this?"

LIAM: But again, if you want to go full Gilmore,
we have the Masterworks box, which is freaking

gorgeous. The dice go in here, the Bluetooth is
hidden in there.

SAM: Bluetooth?!

LIAM: You'll never lose your shit. And then all
your cards go there.

SAM: Put your weed in there.

TALIESIN: You're not supposed to just come out and
say it.

TRAVIS: Can I do a sleight of hand roll?

LIAM: Lastly, if you go over to their Facebook
page right now for Wyrmwood Gaming, they're doing

a contest. They're giving away one of these mofos.
So all the rules for how the contest works are

there. And you can get one of these for looking at
their Facebook page.

LAURA: Sweet.

LIAM: Critrole!

LAURA: Crit. Role!

MATT: And last but not least, as the subscriber
count continues, we're going to be doing

giveaways. We actually got a great gift from
Midnight Syndicate, who, those of you who may have

paid attention, created a lot of the music that I
use during our games. They're a phenomenal group

that has incredible tabletop gaming-centric music
for all sorts: fantasy, horror, Lovecraft-- they

have an incredible array of tracks and they sent
us a bunch of CDs to give out to you guys. So we

are now folding these delightful Midnight
Syndicate CDs in as part of the giveaway as well.

What's the milestone we're hitting for
subscribers?

CREW: I think it's 16,800?

MATT: So 16,800. When we hit that tonight, we'll
be giving away the next giveaway, which will

include this as well as art posters, and all the
other good stuff we give away as part of our

subscriber giveaways, so that's cool. Thank you,
Midnight Syndicate, you guys are awesome. Check

out their stuff on the internet for your own home
games. It's brilliant stuff. All righty! So,

without further ado, let's get back into the realm
of Exandria.

TALIESIN: When we last left off, we were in a
cardboard box.

MATT: Yes. In Hobotown, USA.

MARISHA: I knew this day would come.

MATT: So last we left off, Vox Machina, having
traversed many places in the world in hopes of

finding a way to expel or destroy the Chroma
Conclave, a collective of four chromatic dragons

that together managed to destroy large bastions of
society on the continent of Tal'Dorei and beyond

in Wildemount. Thordak, the Cinder King, the
seeming leader of their group, currently sits in

the center of the partially destroyed city of
Emon. The other dragons have scattered about and

claimed their own territories. From this, the
party has discovered the existence of these

legendary magical items, referred to as the
Vestiges of Divergence, that existed from wars

long past. They were carried on from generation to
generation that contain power that may be

sufficient to defeat these creatures. You were
sent to seek out the nameless sphinx that exists

somewhere near the Frostweald. Weeld-weld. It's
pronounced so many different ways--

SAM: Which is it? Which is it?

MATT: It can be any of them, it's a magical world.
The Frostweald.

LAURA: Oh, it's right in between it.

MATT: It's in that weird place.

TALIESIN: Frost Wilfred Brimley

MATT: Frost Brimley. Frost Brimley is the most
dangerous of forests, by the way. Everyone gets

diabetes. Sorry. Somewhere the sphinx exists in
the Frostweald, which the nameless mate to Osysa,

the gynosphinx you met in Vasselheim, sent you to
go seek out this information. Upon going to the

town of Westruun to the north, it had been
partially destroyed by the black dragon Umbrasyl,

and in its absence had been taken over by what
seems to be Grog's roving barbarian herd.

TRAVIS: Dicks.

LAURA: Total dicks.

MATT: They currently sit on the throne of the town
of Westruun and have made some sort of accord with

the dragon where they can both simultaneously rule
that area as long as they continually provide

goods, gold, and whatever they can procure from
those who live within the city still. Deciding to

continue south, the party made their way into the
ever-frozen forest of the Frostweald. You stumbled

upon a small hive of basilisks that surrounded an
obelisk of Ioun, which gave you your first clue as

to the location where this sphinx could be found.
You battled the basilisks, destroyed their

underground hive, or at least the exit from it,
via Fireballs and other such stone wall endeavors.

Found amongst the stone ruins of previous victims
of the basilisks, you found most of Tyriok

Gadsworth, the wandering cartographer, now missing
a portion of his right arm. However, he is

restored and alive, which is much better than how
he was before and is currently leading you guys

towards a camp of orcs, supposedly nearby, as some
of the survivors of Westruun's destruction were

camping far south and some were being captured by
this roving orc camp. So you guys have just

stepped away from the obelisk and the remains of
these basilisks you've slaughtered. As Tyriok

leads you guys from where he last saw-- at least
where he saw some roving orcs before he found

himself turned to stone in that previous area. As
you travel along, the cold midday air of this

forest, there's no wind. It's very still and very
quiet, which is unsettling in a place that's so

out and open in nature. Your boots are crunching
through the snow, step after step, but you're

still being as careful and as quiet as you can,
moving along. Tyriok is shivering in the cold and

one of you manages to pull out one of your extra
blankets you have in the Bag of Holding to keep him

from going into hypothermia. You guys press on for
about ten minutes or so, and he's trying to look

around and look at the placement of the sun, look
at different areas that he'd seen within the

forest and he's thinking to himself. "All right, so
I recognize that mountain spire, time

"of the day, that way is north, west. Follow me!"
And he continues to lead you in that direction.

LAURA: And all of that with just a stump.

MATT: Yes. You're terrible.

TRAVIS: Tyriok, do you have a weapon on you?

MATT: "The best weapon I have is right here."

TRAVIS: Yeah, right, on your way, lad. (whispers)
He's going to die first.

MATT: He's trouncing through the snow, little bit
ahead, stopping, looking about, before you

realize that he's a huge target, he's making a lot
of noise.

MARISHA: Didn't we discuss sending him home?

LAURA: No, he had to show us where the orcs were.

TRAVIS: Yeah, I said he shouldn't come, but no--

LAURA: Did I cast Pass Without a Trace on us
before we headed out?

MATT: You cast it before the battle. I don't
recall if you cast it afterwards.

LAURA: Then I'll cast it again so that he's
incorporated in it and I think we should try to

stealth it.

MATT: Okay.

TRAVIS: You going to tell him?

LAURA: Hey. Hey, Wonderbrain.

MATT: "Yes?"

LAURA: I think it would be smart if we moved as
quietly as possible.

MATT: "Why, that's what I was doing. Perhaps I
should stand in the back, then, if you guys want

"to go... Loosely that way, about 300 paces to the
right of the second stone you see with the large

"outcropping that looks like a gorilla's face,
and then continue. I'll guide you from back here."

TRAVIS: Yeah, that sounds legit.

MATT: He steps to the back.

LAURA: You know, keep a distance. When you hear no
more fighting, it's probably safe. Probably.

MATT: "Okay, okay."

LIAM: I walk up alongside him and say, listen, I
know you're not used to weaponry, but take this,

please. It's a loaner. And I take my Keen Dagger
and I stick it in his hand.

LAURA: What? No, don't-- I take it back and I give
another dagger to him.

LIAM: I give him the Keen Dagger and say, hold
this. It's a loner. It's very sharp. Be careful

with it, all right? If you get caught on your own,
stab. That's all you got to do, is stab.

TALIESIN: Stab the other person, not yourself.

MATT: His eyes don't leave the blade and he goes,
"Okay."

LAURA: Don't accidentally stab yourself because I
think it sucks your life energy out of you.

LIAM: That is not what that does.

LAURA: Yes it does, it definitely sucks your
life.

MATT: Make a deception check.

LIAM: At a disadvantage since I contradicted
her?

LAURA: 25.

MATT: Make a persuasion check.

LIAM: That's another knife I have.

TRAVIS: Oh really?

LIAM: Yes.

LAURA: Oh!

TRAVIS: That's a giant die.

LAURA: It's not above 25.

LIAM: 15. It's 15.

MATT: He goes, "Perhaps this is best suited for
someone who knows how to wield such dark powers."

LAURA: I think you are so right. And I'll take
that from you. And in exchange, I will give you

this wonderful opal dagger that I have on my
person.

MATT: "Oh. This is more my speed."

LAURA: Still very sharp.

TRAVIS: You know what that one does? It makes you
infertile.

LIAM: Give me this, you fucking hoarder. What's
the matter with you? What are you--

TRAVIS: Yeah, can you feel it in your little bits
rumbling? They're all going to sleep forever.

MATT: "Perhaps you have a third or fourth dagger I
can try."

LAURA: What? What did he just tell you? I wasn't
paying attention.

TRAVIS: Look, I'm a man of the truth.

LAURA: He's lying. He always lies, don't pay any
attention to him. You're safe with that.

LIAM: I push him off, ten feet away from the
group, and I pull out the same Keen Dagger--

LAURA: Jesus!

LIAM: Here's a different one. This is a normal
dagger.

MATT: "How about I take no dagger and I stay away
from this? You guys are starting to be a little

"weird." And he hands you the secondary dagger and
he puts his one hand up.

LIAM: I just don't want what happened to you before to
happen again, all right? You can even put it in

your belt, just have it. All right? It's a normal
dagger, it's fine. My sister is intimidating.

MATT: "To say the least. All right."

MARISHA: Vax, just because he's holding a dagger
doesn't mean he's going to be successful at using it.

LIAM: What?

MARISHA: You're wasting your time-- never mind.

LIAM: Hold on to it.

MATT: "Okay." As you guys start walking, his eyes
don't leave the blade as he takes each step and

(whoosh).

LAURA: And then as he walks away, it poofs back
into his fucking belt.

LIAM: No, it doesn't.

TRAVIS: All right, so we head towards the
outcropping that looks like a gorilla's face.

MATT: Okay, so I'll have you guys all roll a
perception check, if you could.

TRAVIS: Perception check. First one!

MARISHA: Heh, natural 19.

LAURA: I don't see anything at all.

TRAVIS: Ten.

LAURA: One.

LIAM: 22.

MARISHA: 29.

TALIESIN: 26.

SAM: Three.

LAURA: Off to the races.

MARISHA: No, I'm sorry, 30. 30.

TRAVIS: What?!

MARISHA: I rolled a 19, my Perception's 11.

TALIESIN: I think you notice things and have an
epiphany at that point.

MATT: As you guys are walking, Keyleth shoots her
arms out in a stop motion, and you look off and

you can see past the clump of trees, maybe 60 feet
ahead of you guys, two hulking-looking humanoids

tromping through the snow, dragging something
behind them. You hear the distant crunch of the

snow and there's shape, but it's darker in the
area where they are in the distance. Can't really

make out a form, but you figure these are probably
orcish in nature based on their gait and their

outline.

LAURA: (whispers) What is it?

MARISHA: I look at the group and I go--

TRAVIS: Two deer. Santa Claus.

LAURA: Hello, salute, running away.

SAM: Milking a cow.

LIAM: Cha-cha slide.

LAURA: Use your words, Keyleth. Talk.

MARISHA: Okay, okay. it looked like there were two
orcs and they were carrying a body.

LAURA: Are they headed this way?

MARISHA: No, they're headed away from us, correct?
Away, they're going away?

MATT: Eh, parallel, a little bit away.

LAURA: So I cast Pass Without a Trace on us, so
should we stealth?

MATT: Have you guys all roll stealth now.

TRAVIS: Still flat grassland, or are there some
trees?

MATT: Well, you guys are in the center of the
Frostweald.

So it's relatively thick trees, relative
canopy.

TALIESIN: Rolling stealth plus ten.

MARISHA: Thank goodness. 22.

TALIESIN: 26.

SAM: 15.

LIAM: 45.

LAURA: 29. What?!

TRAVIS: 26.

MARISHA: You got a natural 20?

TRAVIS: 45, holy shit.

TALIESIN: You don't know where you are anymore at
that point.

LIAM: I am one-dimensional.

MATT: So what are you guys going to do?

LAURA: He's a dot.

TRAVIS: From our previous time in the Frostweald,
we don't recognize any of this terrain

right?

MATT: I mean, you recognize the terrain. It's a
large forest.

TRAVIS: No landmarks, no lakes?

MATT: Not nearby, none that you've seen at least.
If you want to go look for that, you could, but--

TRAVIS: Are there any paths in front of us, or is
it just trees and intermittent terrain?

MATT: If there are paths, they're under so much
snow and relatively fresh snow that's perpetually

piled on this region, they're not visible at the
moment. You can occasional hoofprints in the snow

from some wildlife that might live in the vicinity
of the forest.

TRAVIS: Don't you like this terrain?

LAURA: I do.

TRAVIS: Well, so what should we do?

LIAM: We're looking for orcs. They're what we're
looking for. Aren't they going where we want to go?

TALIESIN: Let's pace and slowly approach.

LAURA: I like it. Can I search the ground and see
if there are a lot of tracks around? Or is this

like a roaming party?

MATT: From what you can see around, you don't see
any tracks from them specifically in front of you,

from where they're travelling, it appears to just
be the two of them right now. They're either

scouts or hunters, and the closer you guys, as you
slowly approach, to get a better view, they're

both dragging what look to be like two boars that
were killed, are currently being dragged by their

legs over their shoulders, leaving a trail of
crimson in the snow behind them.

LAURA: I think we should take them out before they
get back to their group.

SAM: Wait. What is our overall goal here? Are we
to slay a bunch of orcs or are we to follow them

somewhere?

LAURA: We're supposed to slay them and stop them
from--

TRAVIS: Number two and then number one. Follow
them and then kill the rest.

LIAM: We want to get rid of all of them, so follow
these guys back to the bee's nest and we can take

care of the hive.

SAM: Okay, well let's follow silently.

LIAM: Why don't I go a little bit ahead, you
follow behind by about 50 paces and the rest of

the group behind you?

LAURA: But what if we kill them now, we won't have
to fight them--

SAM: Then we won't know where the camp is.

LAURA: But I can follow tracks.

SAM: Oh. Can you?

MARISHA: There won't be tracks if they're dead.

LIAM: They're not coming from where they're from,
they're going.

SAM: They were just hunting.

LAURA: Fine! Fuck it!

SAM: Let's follow them.

MATT: So you guys--

TRAVIS: We follow them.

MATT: Okay, you don't catch up, you follow.

TRAVIS: At a safe distance.

MATT: Okay. So you guys continue moving forward,
watching them as they go, at a far enough

distance. Pike's doing her best to walk behind in
the snow, but it's okay! She's barely moving her

upper body to make sure it's minimal amount of
movement.

LIAM: I'm not far ahead, but I'm ahead. I'm like
30 yards ahead.

MATT: Yeah. Listening out, you can hear the
occasional laughter, too far away to hear any sort

of language, not that I think you understand or
know the language Orcish, but eventually they come

over a hill, and down, and you see it first as you
crest over. You can see there is a small clearing

in the forest of this area, where there are two
tents, what looks to be relatively filth-stained

tents, like they've been used for an extended
period of time, covered in dirt and mud and other

things. You can see a small pile of skinned bodies
to a side of one of the tents.

LAURA: (whispers) Oh! They're definitely bad.

SAM: (whispers) I don't know.

MATT: There's a large stump next to it, with a
trail of blood that leads up to it. You can see there are

two small fires that are set in the center of this
area, where they're keeping warm to themselves.

And these bundled-up orcs are sitting around the
fires, drinking. You can see some of them have

random silver mugs or cups, some have steins, some
have carved pieces of bark that are used as a

means of drinking. You can see outside of these
tents what appear to be large barrels or casks of

wine or liquor that have been probably raided from
the camp they found outside of the lake. You can

see a couple of them are much larger than the
other orcs. One of them is sitting down by the

fire and is chuckling with the rest. You see to
the back of the camp, there is one that's taking

javelins and chucking them up in the air, and
they're arcing through. And every time he chucks

one, you hear a (scared noise), and as soon as you
move to the edge of it, you look over and there is a

young man who's strung up by his torso from one of
the trees and it looks like a few of the orcs are

making target practice. They've already hit him
twice. There's one that's sticking out of his

thigh and another one that's embedded itself in
his shoulder, and little trails of blood streaking

down, but he is currently strung up like a piñata
and they're having fun with him. You take a moment

as the rest of the group catches up to you on the
edge and you can see there are a few other people

being kept inside the tents right now. One large
orc musters out, adorned in thicker armor than the

rest of them. He has a band across his head with a
big old rough, uncut gem on the front. He starts

barking out orders to a few of them. One of the
larger ones stands up, and he's probably a good

foot taller than the other orcs, lumbers to the
back of the two tents and you can see there are

two bears that are currently chained up to the
back. He reaches over and grabs one of the skinned

bodies from the side of the tent and throws it to
the two bears and they immediately start tearing

it apart and eating it. At this point the rest of
the party catches up to you.

LIAM: Okay, so I saw that.

MATT: Yes.

LIAM: Okay. But they're still a ways off, right?

MATT: In fact, I could probably show you now.
Since you have--

SAM: Whoa! It's a cozy camp.

LAURA: Oh my god, look at that camp!

SAM: There's fire, there's bears.

LAURA: Where are the wine barrels?

MATT: The barrels are right there, right there,
and right there.

SAM: Oh, there's the guy hanging up in the tree!

MARISHA: Where, where, where?

Can you point out those barrels one more
time?

MATT: There, there, and there.

LAURA: So next to the tents that the prisoners are
being kept in.

MATT: Yes.

SAM: Okay. We have options, people.

MATT: They haven't noticed you.

LIAM: How far back are we?

MATT: You are probably back here, a good 60 feet
outside of the outskirts of the camp. They don't

seem to have noticed your approach and this is
entirely however you guys want to approach this.

LIAM: All right, well, I turn back to the group.

LAURA: What time of day is it?

MATT: It's mid-afternoon.

SAM: Can we rest? Are we rested? Yeah, we had a
night in the-- wait, no. We just killed those--

MATT: No, you haven't rested since the basilisks.

SAM: Okay, so we're down a couple spells, or
whatever.

MARISHA: Yeah, but I'm full on hit points. Is
anyone hurt?

LAURA: Well, I'm a little hurt.

MATT: It was a bump in the road, the basilisks.

SAM: Yeah. Okay. Hey, oi! So do I create a
distraction while you go around back? Do we go in

guns blazing? What's the plan? I can distract.

LAURA: I think it would be good to create a
distraction. We go in, save the prisoners and then

take out the camp.

SAM: So a distraction that would get everyone to
run towards me and ignore you?

LAURA: And then we can stealth down--

LIAM: Can we go around the sides--

MARISHA: Flank them?

LIAM: Flank them ahead of time.

Scanlan, you create a distraction--

MARISHA: As they're running--

LIAM: -- closer to here?

SAM: Sure.

LIAM: You want to get that guy down to the treeline
and get the people out.

SAM: Sure. I'll draw them away from the tents.

LAURA: Okay. And then, once everyone's clear, we
bring them back and kill them all? Or what?

LIAM: Well, this may be it for orcs? This could be
all of them, or it could be just a forward camp,

so we need to keep one alive.

LAURA: And find out.

LIAM: And find out if this is the end of it, or if
there's more.

TALIESIN: That's fair.

TRAVIS: Good thinking.

LAURA: How do we get all the prisoners out very
quickly?

TALIESIN: You have knives. You could cut your way
through the back of the tent.

LAURA: Scanlan, could you potentially put all the
people in the door?

SAM: No. That is for my recreational use only.
Also takes a minute to cast.

MARISHA: Well, Scanlan can create a distraction, I
can possibly take a few people out with my ranged

spells along the way.

LAURA: I'm saying get the prisoners safe so that
nobody's running blindly into the forest.

LIAM: I've lost track of all you've done in the
past 24 hours. Could you send everybody through a

tree, even back to where their people are?

MARISHA: Not today.

LAURA: What if you spent some time, a minute,
creating your mansion, you have a little door

here. Once you've created a distraction, we can
all run up and put them in the door and then we

fight. And then we get the people out of the
mansion.

LIAM: Yes, that's good. That's good.

SAM: Interesting idea. It's an interesting idea.

TRAVIS: I kind of like it.

SAM: I like it too.

LIAM: They can go down to the workout room, so
they don't soil the other chambers.

SAM: It's not concentration. I mean, it's
concentration for a minute, but then after it's

cast, it's okay.

MATT: Once it's cast, it's 24 hours that door
stays there.

TRAVIS: Yeah, all your little Mr. Meeseeks will
take care of them.

SAM: But we still have to get them out of the camp
and into the door, unless I make the door in the

camp.

TALIESIN: Make the door, make the door at the back
of the camp. And that way, we can run them out the

back of the tents.

LAURA: Not near the bears.

LIAM: You need to go full Burt Reynolds out in
front of that camp and get the bulk of them

running towards you.

SAM: I can't do both.

TALIESIN: Make the door first.

TRAVIS: No, no, hey look. I'm good for a
distraction.

LIAM: Blow your shawm.

SAM: I'm fine with distractions, but I can't go to
the back of the camp and set a door and to the

front of the camp and draw them out.

MARISHA: Let Scanlan handle-- I almost called him
Scandal, which is still appropriate. Let Scanlan

handle the door, I can handle the distraction.

LAURA: Okay.

LIAM and TALIESIN: All right

LAURA: All right, so we sneak around to the back.

SAM: I'm really good at distractions.

MARISHA: You are, you're incredibly good at
distractions.

LIAM: But you're the only one who can make a
Hefner mansion out of thin air.

SAM: So I'm to sneak in and make a door and await
further instructions?

LIAM: We'll all go together.

LAURA: We'll make the door far enough away.

LIAM: Wait, Keyleth does the distraction. As soon
as she goes, you go. So once those guys start

running towards her--

SAM: How far away are we?

MATT: You guys are probably about 60 feet away
from the far outside of the campline, so around

this ring here, just outside of where the table
edges are.

SAM: But we're talking like 150 feet? 200 feet?

MATT: You're probably closer to about 60 feet away
right now, you can move for--

SAM: Okay, well, we're fine. I can make the
door from 300 feet away. So we're fine. So I can

make the door right now before we do anything.

LAURA: Do it, make the door!

SAM: Except there's going to be a glowing door in
their camp.

LAURA: Make the door behind one of those trees.

SAM: All right. Okay, I'm going to go ahead and do
it.

TRAVIS: Yeah, fuck it, just do it.

LAURA: Get ready to do a distraction right fucking
now.

LIAM: But you know what you're doing, right? Wait!
Let's get in position! You and I can do a lot more

hurt to these guys if we're closer to the position
we have to go?

SAM: All right, flank around, flank around. It's
going to take me a minute to cast the spell. You

have a minute to get into position.

MATT: So who all's flanking around? All right, so
the twins and Percy, where are you guys going?

LIAM: I'll take the long way around, this way.

MATT: Over here?

TRAVIS: Far side?

LIAM: Yeah.

MATT: Okay, so.

LIAM: With an eye for the shithead who's
tormenting that guy in the tree.

MATT: All right, are you going with him?

LAURA: No, I'm staying on the other side.

MATT: Okay, Percy, you're going with Vax?

TALIESIN: I'm going to go, actually, right over
here. I'm going to hide over here and I'm going to

try and get a bead on the guy on the tree.

MATT: Okay, easy enough. You get a bead on him, in
the outskirts there.

TRAVIS: Pike and I will go with Vax.

SAM: Oh, she's not a good sneaker.

TRAVIS: Oh no, you're right, she should stay put.
You're right.

MATT: You're going to be right there.

LAURA: Charge in after the distraction.

MATT: So Grog, where are you going?

TRAVIS: I'll go with Vax.

MATT: Vax? All right, so you make your way around.
Keeping your guys' existing stealth checks, which

were okay.

TRAVIS: Yeah, I was a 25.

LIAM: 45.

MATT: Okay.

LAURA: Oh, Pike did come? We said Pike could stay,
because she's not stealthy.

MATT: Not stealthy. Okay then. She stays there. So
Pike's going to go-- Scanlan, you're moving back?

Where are you going?

SAM: I'm staying next to Keyleth because I can do
this from a range.

MATT: Where do you guys want to go-- Keyleth, for
this distraction?

MARISHA: Where's Scanlan?

SAM: Wait, don't do the distraction yet! I haven't
set the--

MATT: Where do you guys want to set up for the
distraction?

MARISHA: Where did you go, Scanlan?

SAM: I'm right next to you. We want to do it--

MARISHA: Yeah, we want to do it towards us.

SAM: We want to distract around here.

LAURA: And then run the other direction.

MARISHA: Yes.

MATT: All right, so you guys are set up right
about there.

MARISHA: No, that's where we wanted-- Put us
more--

SAM: No, he knows. We're back right now, but
that's where we will end up.

MATT: You're further back. I can only put you so
far away from the table edge.

MARISHA: No, that's good, that's good, that's
good.

MATT: All right, Pike's going to stay up with you,
since you have the bead right now and if worse

comes to worst, she can help rush in and try and
help at that point. All right, so who's doing what?

SAM: I'm going to start casting the door.

MATT: All right.

SAM: And I'm going to do it back behind camp, on
the treeline or whatever.

MATT: Okay, back far this way?

SAM: You know, just out of eyeshot of them.

MATT: Okay, I'll put this little dice on the
corner to represent where the door is.

LAURA: Yeah, that's good, that's good.

LIAM: I turn to Grog.

TRAVIS: Yeah?

LIAM: I'm moving a little closer, just a bit, stay
there.

TRAVIS: Come with you?

LIAM: The opposite of that.

TRAVIS: Go away from you?

LIAM: This is your spot, this is your spot! And I
creep towards the trees, a tree closest to me, so

I can get closer. Which is the orc that's throwing
the javelins on that map?

MATT: These two right here are taking turns.

LIAM: Okay.

MATT: At this point, you hear another (grunt,
scream), and then some (condescending laughter).

Oh, moving up to here?

LIAM: The other tree closer to you.

MATT: Right there?

LIAM: Yeah, and I'll hold there.

MATT: All right. Who's up next? Who's doing what?

TALIESIN: Waiting for the distraction.

SAM: Do you want me to go in and you can cast
something? I'll get their attention and you can

cast something?

MARISHA: Sure.

SAM: Okay.

MARISHA: Can I have a Monster Manual?

MATT: For what?

MARISHA: Conjure Woodland Beings?

LIAM: Do you want the app?

MARISHA: Maybe.

SAM: There's not many that you can conjure. It's
pixies and little things.

LAURA: Yeah, that's little creatures.

SAM: It's okay, she knows what she's doing. No,
she doesn't.

MARISHA: Well, I can conjure a bunch of little
creatures.

LIAM: You can search. Search!

TRAVIS: If you make a bunch of David the Gnomes--

LAURA: Seriously, like a giant scorpion would be
probably pretty cool.

LIAM: Fire elemental? Big, bright fire elemental?

MARISHA: Yeah, but then it wouldn't be me. It'd be
something else that's not me that I can control?

MATT: Percy's taking the bead, waiting for the
distraction.

TALIESIN: Just do it!

MARISHA: Okay, I'm going to say Conjure Woodland
Beings.

MATT: What are you conjuring?

MARISHA: I don't know.

MATT: You have to know what you're doing.

MARISHA: Well, that's what I'm trying to figure
out. You know, there's not a list of what you can

conjure in the book.

SAM: No, there's not.

MARISHA: And it's very unfortunate. And it's some
kind of fey creature. So what's a fey creature

that's a challenge rating of two that would make
sense? That's really scary?

LAURA: Fairies?

MARISHA: Or I can also summon like eight fairies
if they're a low enough, you know--

MATT: I hate conjuration spells, by the way guys,
so you all know. The worst spells in the whole game.

SAM: I will say this, to be fair to Marisha, the
spell does say, your DM will have a list of the

creatures.

(laughter)

MATT: Does it really?

SAM: It does, at the end of the spell.

MATT: Fuck that spell.

(laughter)

MARISHA: Yeah it says the DM will have the
statistics.

SAM: It says the DM will have the creatures.

MATT: Fuck that spell. Conjuration needs to die.
No, conjuration's great, when you're not the DM.

TRAVIS: You don't know me, you don't know what
lists I have.

MATT: How about some dryads?

MARISHA: Dryads?

MATT: We'll go see what their challenge rating
is.

MARISHA: That sounds cool.

MATT: Past the devils.

LIAM: I'll give you level-two challenge rating.

MATT: And no, we're not doing the whole pixies
Polymorph. That's so dumb. Not even going to lie.

MARISHA: Challenge rating of two.

MATT: Challenge rating of one.

MARISHA: It's got to be a fey. Oh, it only has a
challenge rating of one?

LAURA and LIAM: Centaur!

MARISHA: What are centaurs?

SAM: Centaurs are not fey, are they?

MARISHA: Apparently.

LAURA: They are!

LIAM: Green dragon wyrmling!

TRAVIS: I'm getting bored.

MATT: I don't think centaurs are fey.

MARISHA: Okay. Well then, let's do two dryads.

MATT: Two dryads. You can do up to two challenge
rating--

TALIESIN: (sings) Five gold rings!

MARISHA: Two triads. Dryads. I don't know what it
is.

LIAM: Will o' the wisp!

MARISHA: Two dryads.

MATT: We will say here, two dryads. Where are they
going?

MARISHA: Right in where--

SAM: Front and center.

MARISHA: Thank you. Yep, here. Ish.

SAM: See this, Matt?

MARISHA: Here. No, there.

MATT: Right there?

MARISHA: Yeah that's a little out. And Scanlan and
I are far back.

MATT: Now, suddenly the dryads pop into being and
these two humanoid green nature entities that look

humanoid but are covered with leaves and their
skin has the texture of bark in places. Beautiful,

wistful, both appear, summoned out of the ether
and land on the snow.

LIAM: Crunch.

MATT: The ground gives out from under them, they
both go, (screams) and fall into a pit here.

SAM: Oh shit!

MARISHA: See, aren't you glad that wasn't me?

SAM: Yeah. Good job.

LIAM: Couldn't have gone with the will o' the wisp.

TRAVIS: A pit?

LIAM: They would have floated right above it.

MATT: This whole section here has now crumpled
below. The dryads, however, have to make a save.

LAURA: Oh my god.

MATT: One of them saves.

LIAM: But that wasn't us!

MARISHA: That wasn't us!

MATT: That wasn't you guys. Like right there?
Okay!

MARISHA: Wasn't me! It's all I care about!

MATT: All right.

TALIESIN: This is the most Douglas Adams beginning
of a fight ever.

MATT: One dryad dies a horrible screaming death.
(screams) And the other one you hear is breathing

heavily from the inside right now.

MARISHA: Keyleth is standing at the edge of the
forest going--

MATT: At which point, a bunch of the orcs turn
around. I need both of you guys to-- let's see,

because they're making active perception. What was
your stealth check, Sam?

SAM: 15, but it doesn't matter. I'm walking
forward.

MATT: (chuckles) Okay.

SAM: I'm going to cast the Resilient Sphere on
myself. And I'm going to roll into camp. Hamster-style.

MARISHA: Wait, can I go with you a little bit?

SAM: Don't.

MARISHA: Can I do a thing with him?

TRAVIS: If he says don't, then--

LAURA: Then probably don't.

LIAM: No, let him do his thing. It's marble
madness, everybody.

SAM: I'm going to start singing to get their
attention. (sings 'Tro-lo-lo')

MARISHA: Just avoid the pit!

MATT: All right. All 60 feet, you avoid the pit,
you roll around, all the orcs look over. "Huh?

"Stupid gnome!"

SAM: Very stupid.

MATT: Initiative has now kicked in; I need
everyone to roll initiative. (laughs)

TRAVIS: Holy shit.

MATT: Jesus Christ.

MARISHA: Oh, that's a good roll!

MATT: All right, so--

TALIESIN: Oh, hell yes.

MARISHA: Spent all that time figuring out what I
was going to do and then they fell in a crack.

SAM: You did great! You exposed the trap! You
saved--

LAURA: It's true!

TALIESIN: If you'd conjured a will-o'-wisp, it
would have been you in that hole.

SAM: If I had just gone out, I would have fallen
in the hole!

LIAM: It's all right, Wendy will draw some dryads
falling into the spikes--

MATT: Initiative orders. 25 to 20?

LIAM: 25.

TALIESIN: 24.

MATT: Whoa.

MARISHA: 21.

MATT: All right, 25. So we have Vax. 24, Percy.

MARISHA: 21.

TRAVIS: And 20.

MATT: Keyleth and Grog. Oh man.

MATT: All right, 20 to 15.

LAURA: 16.

MATT: 16. Vex. And then Pike, right after you!

SAM: 11.

MATT: 11. Tyriok is hidden away. As you guys begin
to approach the camp, he's like, "I'm going to

"stay back here." So he's way out of the field now.
Scanlan bringing up the rear. As he would want

to. All right. So that brings us to the top of the
combat round. All the orcs now have stood up,

grabbed their weapons, and they see this giant
hamster wheel of a gnome rolling into the camp.

They all look really confused but have their
weapons ready to go. Vax, you're up first.

LIAM: Poo.

MARISHA: The door's already summoned, yeah?

LIAM: What are we doing, are we waiting, are we
going? I-- I'm going to sling a dagger. I'm going

to click my Boots of Haste. I did? Then I'm going
to sling a dagger.

MATT: You used them on the basilisk fight.

LIAM: Great, thank you. I'm going to sling a
dagger at the orc right in front of those two bears.

MATT: Right there?

LIAM: There. Yeah.

MATT: All right, go for it.

LIAM: All right. So advantage.

SAM: We're still trying to draw them out, right?

LAURA: Yeah.

LIAM: I got a 21.

MATT: 21 hits.

LIAM: Okay. All right. So I'm going to roll for
damage. So this is Assassin. It is not surprise?

MATT: Not surprise. They have been made aware that
there is a threat, as Scanlan rolled in. You do

have advantage because he doesn't see you. So it
would sneak attack.

TRAVIS: In his gerbil ball.

LIAM: Here comes the sneak attack damage, Two,
four, that was the worst sneak attack damage ever.

(counting) 29.

MATT: 29 points of piercing damage. The giant
creature, as the dagger (whoosh) through the air,

doesn't even notice it. It's looking over where
Scanlan is and is grabbing the chains and breaking

them from where the bears are currently bound.

SAM: Oh shit.

MATT: Hasn't broken them yet, he's going in for
the pull as the dagger (impacts) the back of its

neck and it's looking over in the direction where
it came from. What are you doing?

LIAM: I would like to use my bonus action to
hide.

MATT: Okay, go ahead and go for it. Roll for
stealth.

LIAM: 30.

MATT: 30? He glances over in your direction, looks
up, looks in the other direction, reaches up and

goes to pull the dagger out, but it's already
gone.

LAURA: That's so sneaky.

MATT: (roars) And angrily yells out into nothing.
Has no idea where you are.

LIAM: And then I'm going to use my movement to
squish down into the snow a bit, up to here,

feathers sticking out a little bit.

MATT: Awesome. Ends Vax's turn. Percy, you're up.

TALIESIN: Amazingly, I've got a bead on that guy
who's trying to let the bears out of their chains.

MATT: You do, actually. Yes.

TALIESIN: I'm going to take Bad News and I'm going
to sit and take a nice calm breath, and I'm going

to squeeze off a shot and knock him on his ass, so
this is a trick shot, leg hit.

MATT: Go for it.

TALIESIN: Wait, before I do anything, I still can
use Hex because the last creature to have Hex on

them died, so I can use it as a bonus action to
cast Hex again, can't I?

MATT: Correct. How long does it last, though?

TALIESIN: Couple hours, I believe.

MATT: I will check.

TALIESIN: Might have been too long.

MATT: It's been about an hour or so since that
last encounter as you were travelling through the

forest, so with Hex, up to an hour. Yeah,
unfortunately.

TALIESIN: Oh, fuck it. And it's a full day's rest?
It's a long rest.

MATT: For you, yeah. 'Cause it's the feat as
opposed to an actual class feature.

All right, taking your aim.

TALIESIN: That's fine! Taking that shot.

MATT: Sharpshooter or not?

TALIESIN: No, not Sharpshooter. That's 24 to hit.

MATT: 24 hits! Heavy plate armor covered orc-like
creature. Bigger than a regular orc that you've

seen before.

TALIESIN: He has a strength saving throw?

MATT: Yes, he does.

TRAVIS: Which one is he?

MATT: That is going to be a nine, 'cause he rolled
really bad.

TALIESIN: Yeah, no, he's prone.

MATT: So with that (impact).

TALIESIN: He also takes 15 points of piercing
damage.

MATT: 15 points of piercing damage. As you
(gunshot) rockets off, the sound cracks through

the air. All the orcs now glance over in your
direction, as the bullet streaks past them,

tickling the bottom of the feet of the guy who's
strung up, and slamming into the chest of the

armored orc. Lands straight on his back on the
ground right there.

TALIESIN: Cool.

MATT: All right.

TALIESIN: All right. I'm going to move to my right
six spaces and I'm going to take another shot at

the guy who's right ahead of us, in front of 
the pit.

MATT: Right there?

TALIESIN: Yeah, right there. I'm going to take a
Sharpshooter shot.

MATT: Go for it. You reload and then the third
attack for the shot.

TALIESIN: Yep. Whoa, that's nice. 18, 19, 20, 21,
22, 23. 27. That hits. That's ridiculous.

MATT: Is that even with Sharpshooter?

TALIESIN: Yeah. I rolled an 18.

MATT: (chuckle) All righty.

TALIESIN: So that's a better roll? A better roll.
That was a pretty good roll. 16, 17, 17, 27-- 33

points of damage.

MATT: 33 points of damage. You blow that orc's
head clear off its shoulder. Spray of mist comes

out the top of his form, as he slumps down into
the fire in front of him. Two other orcs look over

at you, who are now clearly visible. (grunts)

TALIESIN: I put down the gun and I breathe.

MATT: (chuckles) All right, that ends your turn.
Brings us to Keyleth.

MARISHA: Okay, you mentioned that a few were
coming over and looking over at the edge of the

pit. Are there still a few more at the edge of the
pit?

MATT: They weren't coming and looking at the edge
of the pit, they all looked over in the direction

of where Scanlan was rolling in, around the
center. They're all still in place watching this

giant gnome roll in, but some of them have looked
over at Percy, who's firing a very loud weapon in

their vicinity.

TALIESIN: I figured I would be part of the
distraction.

MARISHA: Sure. How far away is that guy from the
pit?

MATT: He's about 15 feet.

MARISHA: Okay, here's what I want to do. I'm going
to go earth elemental, but I want to, like, do it

like a badass, you know? So I see Scanlan--

MATT: Did you use your scorpion form?

MARISHA: Fuck! I did use scorpion. Fuck, damn it,
we haven't taken a short rest.

MATT: You haven't taken a short rest. Yeah, so you
can't--

MARISHA: Then I don't do any of that. Instead,
where's Scanlan?

MATT: Scanlan is right here.

TALIESIN: I thought we had taken a short rest, just not
a long rest.

MATT: Between?

TALIESIN: Yeah. 'Cause we stopped and we healed.

MATT: You know what? You may have, yeah! If you
want to do that, I'll let you do it.

MARISHA: Did we? Are you sure?

SAM: We healed up each other.

MARISHA: All right, fine!

MATT: We'll say we allowed a short rest, that way
you were reviving Tyriok and everything. That's fine.

MARISHA: Okay, so I walk and I sink into the
ground as I'm walking off, and I want to pop up

next to this guy.

MATT: All right.

MARISHA: And I want to throw his ass in the pit.

(cheering)

MARISHA: (yelling) This. Is. Vox Machina!
...Town.

MATT: All right, go ahead and make an athletics
check.

MARISHA: ...Territory. Strength check?

MATT: You know what, this would be strength. Yeah,
we'll make it strength.

MARISHA: 17.

MATT: 17? Okay. The orc looks as you (explosion)
out of the snow and rock being thrown out of the

area, and, "Huh?" looks over his shoulder at you
with confused look, goes to wring the edge of this

giant club it's holding to come towards you as you
grab both shoulders, gives you this look of utter,

sheer fear, as you lift him up and lob him over
the side into the pit.

TALIESIN: That dryad can help kill him now.

MATT: Yeah, he does not make his save.

SAM: Oh no, is he going to crush the dryad?

MARISHA: He's going to get crushed. He's going to
crush the dryad.

MATT: 28 points of damage. Yeah, you hear a
(pained grunt).

SAM: He died?

MATT: You don't know.

LAURA: Do we also hear a little dryad voice?

MATT: (high-pitched grunt)

(laughter)

MATT: As it gets sandwiched.

LIAM: Pushed it through.

MATT: The dryad was almost out of the pit,
climbing her way out (heavy landing). All right,

so Keyleth, does that end your turn?

MARISHA: Yeah.

MATT: All right, Grog, you're up.

TRAVIS: I'm going to hold my turn until all of our
party has gone.

MATT: So I'll let you go to the back of the
initiative order.

TRAVIS: Okay, yeah, sure.

MATT: All righty. Vex? What you got?

LAURA: I'm going to run forward. Well, actually,
I'm going to stay hidden. Okay. I'm going to--

SAM: Those seem like opposite commands.

LAURA: I know, I know, I know. Can I stealth
forward?

MATT: I mean, no one seems to have noticed you at
the moment.

LAURA: Okay, good, then I stealth forward, towards
the camp, towards the tent, away, staying away

from people. Yeah. Is that as far as I can go in,
towards the tent?

MATT: Six spaces, yeah, 'cause you don't have any
additional movement from there.

LAURA: Then I'm going to stealthily--

MATT: You can keep moving if you use the rest of
your action to move again.

LAURA: I'll be able to get to it on my next turn?
To the tent?

MATT: Yeah.

LAURA: Okay. Then I'll shoot one of the guys.

MATT: All right, which one do you want to shoot?

LAURA: That--

MATT: The one right there?

LAURA: Yeah. That's really hard to hold steady.
Yeah, I'm going to shoot him.

MATT: Okay, go for it. Both attacks?

LAURA: Yeah. 18 on the first.

MATT: 18 just barely hits.

LAURA: And 30 on the second?

MATT: That hits. Roll damage twice on that.

LAURA: Okay. 15, 16, 17. And that's sneak attack?

MATT: Yes, on the first one. So roll an
additional--

LAURA: Five is 22?

MATT: 22 points of damage for the first arrow.
Nice. Second attack?

LAURA: Second attack is five, seven, 13, no 14. 12? I can
add. 13, 14. Oh no, I don't get sneak attack on

the second.

MATT: No, just the first one.

LAURA: 14 on the second attack.

MATT: 14. Nice. You pull two arrows out and
release them both at once. As you duck behind the

tree, the guy who's pulled out this giant greataxe
and is now starting to lumber in the direction of

Keyleth, this giant earth elemental that burst out
of the ground. Both arrows sink in.

LAURA: I use my bonus action to hide.

MATT: Go ahead and roll stealth again. As both
arrows sink into the back of the armor, piercing

through, and embedding themselves a few inches or
more into the back of this, this creature looks

over its shoulder towards you. What'd you roll?

LAURA: 36.

MATT: 36? Glances back over. Doesn't seem to have
any idea where the arrows came from, but is

grimacing in the pain. End your turn? All right,
Pike, now, is going to--

LAURA: Oh, Pike!

MATT: As everyone's scattered about, Pike is going
to move forward. Let's see here. Yeah, going to do

what Pike would do.

TRAVIS: Guiding Bolt.

MATT: Guiding Bolt!

(laughter)

TRAVIS: Yes!

LIAM, LAURA, and TRAVIS: Yeah!

LAURA: But she's really strong now, with the
Guiding Bolt. Yeah!

MARISHA: WWPD. What would Pike do?

MATT: So Pike is going aim it at one of the guys,
one of the guys with the javelins that was

throwing at the guy, to prevent that from
happening. Guiding Bolt on that. Ranged spell

attack-- oh yeah, that'll hit. That's a 15 plus
six. Yeah, that hits.

LIAM: Come on, Trickfoot!

MATT: All righty, that's 4d6 radiant damage to
that guy.

LIAM: Dag, yo!

TRAVIS: 4d6?

MATT: 4d6. 15 radiant damage.

ALL: Oh.

TRAVIS: You roll her really well.

MATT: 15 points of radiant damage, the next attack
against that guy has advantage, as he's now a

giant beacon, as the blast streaks forward from
her extended hand, smashes into the front of this

orc, drops the javelin in his hand, spins around,
looking in the direction she came from and you can

now see there's this glow pulsing off the front of
his armor. That's going to go ahead and end her

turn, bringing us down to their turn. Now, this
guy is going to try and get back up. He's going to

bring down his greataxe onto the chains he was
setting up, he was going to try and break them.

Now he's going to smash it down. Breaks both of
the chains and both of the bears are now free.

TALIESIN: He's prone, though, can he do that?

SAM: He just got up.

MATT: He got up. He can still only move three more
squares, there. That's going to finish his turn.

This guy here is going to lurch forward in the
front of you, Keyleth, and take two swings with

his greataxe towards you. That is a 17 to hit?

MARISHA: 17 is my natural armor.

MATT: All right, so that hits. And then that is an
18. 17 and 18 both hit you. You take 24 points of

slashing damage, as each smash of the greataxe
streaks across the front of the stony armor that

you wear, breaking off chunks here and there, but
there's plenty more where that came from as an

earth elemental. That ends his turn. Let's see.
This guy's going to rush up, this guy's going to

rush up, this guy here is going to attempt to
climb out. He gets partway up, starts cresting

over the edge, he's not up because he was knocked
prone as he fell, so he's over the side. Percy,

you see one orcish arm come up and start to pull
itself out the side of the pit. This guy here is

going to move up, grabbing another javelin. This
guy is going to pick up his javelin from the

ground, move over this way, seeing that the earth
elemental is being taken care of, and they're both

going to throw javelins at you. Let's see, that is
a 24 to hit.

TALIESIN: Can I do a Gloves of Missile Snaring?

MATT: Yes, you can. Go ahead and roll.

LAURA: Are those the ones I gave you?

TALIESIN: Yeah, so that's 24 to hit?

MATT: Well, what does it say on the gloves?

TALIESIN: It's actually-- I can reduce damage, I
can't change whether or not it hit.

MATT: Yes, exactly, so it is eight points of
piercing damage.

TALIESIN: Eight? Eight points of piercing damage?
Okay, so I'm going to try and catch it. And yeah,

I reduce the damage to zero and I actually can
catch it in midair.

MATT: As it chucks the javelin, you catch it and
stop it in midair.

TALIESIN: Stab it into the ground.

MATT: Stab it into the ground. As you're thinking
how awesome that was, the other one rolled a

natural 20.

(groaning)

LIAM: Oh, look at that smile.

MATT: However! Still rolled pretty low on the
damage. That's going to be nine points of piercing

damage for the second one.

TALIESIN: Can I use it again or no?

MATT: What does it say on the glove? It's a
reaction. You only get one reaction per round, so

no, you cannot.

TALIESIN: What did they roll to hit, though?

MATT: That one was a 20, a natural 20.

TALIESIN: A natural 20, so it hits no matter
what.

MATT: Yeah. So yeah, you take nine points of
piercing damage as the other javelin streaks past

you, it cuts past the shoulder, nothing too bad,
but didn't quite take away from the moment that

you just got to enjoy.

TALIESIN: I took eight points of damage?

MATT: Nine points of piercing damage. All right,
that ends that orc's turn. This one, the one that

seems more decorated with the gem-encrusted
headband runs out and starts shouting orders.

SAM: Did the two that were on me attack?

MATT: He's going to come forward and begin to
attempt to attack your orb as well. All three

strike at the orb, trying to cut through.

SAM: Can I act like they're hurting me?

MATT: If you want to.

SAM: Ugh! Ah! Ooh! Oh!

MATT: Make a deception check.

SAM: Deception?

MATT: Deception, yes.

SAM: 27.

LIAM: Okay, Sam, I'm going to need five small pain
reactions and five large pain reactions.

SAM: (sounds of pain)

TALIESIN: Can I get some closed-mouth ones?

SAM: (sounds of pain)

TALIESIN: Okay, now breathier.

MATT: As they're all striking at this sphere,
sparks of arcane energy shooting off with each

blade attack against the outside, they're all
getting winded. You can see sweat dripping off

their brow, as they're not seemingly making an
impact. However, with each pained cry you give

out, you see their grins widen. And they realize,
no, this is working. And all three of them keep

hacking at it, as the one war chief is like,
(yelling in Orcish) and they keep slamming at the

sides of this in hopes of cutting through it.

TALIESIN: Cats with a catnip toy.

MATT: This one, two javelins there, that's good
there, that's good there. I don't think they have

one, in there-- nope! So that is going to be the
end of their turn. Now the bears are going to go.

The two bears are going to go tromping forward 40
feet. 35, 40.

MARISHA: Remember the love in your heart!

MATT: This one's going to go ahead and run past to
there. Since they can't attack anything, this one's

going to keep moving around. He uses his movement
to get behind there and starts biting at the back

of the ball. This one will get over to the earth
elemental, as it is the biggest and most visible

target. All right, that's going to go ahead and
end their turn. Scanlan, you're up.

SAM: Yeah, it's my turn.

TRAVIS: Wait, are we at the top of the round?

SAM: No, no, it's bottom of the round. I'm the
last guy and then you. Oh shit, do I keep them

here, or do I go to work?

LAURA: Get them out.

SAM: Okay, I'm going to very quickly drop the orb
and Dimension Door into one of the tents.

MATT: Okay. The orb vanishes, and with a flick of
your wrist, a goodbye wave, you vanish entirely

from sight. Which tent do you want to appear in?

SAM: I had wanted to go to not the one that Laura
was saying, the other one. That's the one I was

going to go to, because it's closer to the door.

MATT: So you appear inside this tent. And on the
inside you can see there are two people that are

currently within. Just to mark where the tent is.

SAM: Are they human? Or are they dancer?

MATT: They are human and they're pretty
brutalized. One of them you see is this relatively

well-dressed nobleman, his clothing filthy. Part
of his face is swollen and bruised from what looks

like he's been beaten within an inch of his life.
The other one is a woman and you can see, one arm

appears to be broken and she's cradling it in her
hand. And they're both recoiling and holding to

the back, like the corners of the tent, and when
you appear, they both gasp and begin naturally

scrambling away before they realize you're not an
orc.

SAM: I say, come with me if you want to live. And
do I have any movement? Can I try to unbind them?

MATT: Yeah, you don't have movement. You can start
to move over to start unbinding them if you want to.

SAM: Okay, that's what I'll do.

MATT: Okay, so you go to the rope bonds and start
helping them try and release themselves. Okay.

That's the end of Scanlan's turn. Grog, you're
up.

TRAVIS: Watching everybody run forward, forming
this delicious mosh pit right there in the middle,

can I go into a frenzied rage? Can I book ass
towards all these bastards and see if I can get

close to this little prick?

MATT: 30, 35, 40--

TRAVIS: I have 50.

MATT: 45--

(cheering)

TRAVIS: I'm good!

MATT: We'll say, go ahead and make an acrobatics
check to try and move between those two guys.

TRAVIS: 20.

MATT: 20. Okay! You manage to, in a rage, as
you're rushing through, yelling. They're all

confused by the moment of the disappearing hamster
ball of a gnome, look over their shoulder, and you

dive into a shoulder roll, like a bowling ball,
slamming into two of them, finding your feet on

the other side, swing around, and the two that you
pushed past, knocked on their shoulder, didn't

fall off their feet, but you manage to push your
way through, land in place, spin around. You can

take the rest of your turn, if you want.

TRAVIS: Can I turn and say, all right, amateurs,
time to go pro! And I would like to use Reckless

Attack and with my frenzied rage, I take all three
attacks at the crystal-bearing piece of shit. I

can't hit him with my thing.

MATT: Right there? He's just out of range.

TRAVIS: He's just out of range? Whoever's the
closest except for the bear.

MATT: Okay. It'll be either one of those two
guys.

TRAVIS: Oh yeah, he'll take it.

MATT: All right, go for it.

TRAVIS: He'll take all of it. So I have advantage
on these and advantage on attacks.

MATT: I'd say, go for each attack, just in case,
individually, just in case you manage to kill one,

you can move on to the next.

TRAVIS: So do all the attacks first?

MATT: Yeah. Well no, do the first attack.

LIAM: Attack and damage, attack and damage.

TRAVIS: Attack and damage, okay. 15 for the first
one.

MATT: 15 for the first one hits!

TRAVIS: Yay! Oh god, nine. 18! 18 points of
damage.

MATT: 18 points of damage, all right.

TRAVIS: And there's a constitution--

MATT: Does fail its save.

TRAVIS: Yay! Give me your shit. Okay, second one
is a 24.

MATT: 24 points of damage?

TRAVIS: No, 24 to hit.

MATT: 24 to hit? 24 hits.

TRAVIS: Yep. That's crap, nine. That's also 18
points of damage on the second one.

MATT: 18. The first hack cleaves into the side of
his shoulders, the second one you bring across his

midsection and his whole innards spill out onto
the snow. Crumples into the ground before you.

TRAVIS: And when I kill someone, I get an
additional attack.

MATT: As a bonus action. But you're already using
your bonus action as a frenzied rage.

TRAVIS: Right, thank you.

MATT: Yeah, so you can do that outside of a
frenzied rage, if you kill something.

TRAVIS: So this is the last one and there's a bear
there, right?

MATT: He also did fail his save on that, so you
got another bonus to strength.

TRAVIS: Hell, upgrades all around, bitches. Last
one.

MATT: What's your strength at now?

TRAVIS: 24. It's a plus three on top of everything
else.

MATT: Plus three on top of that?

TRAVIS: Yeah.

MATT: Nice. All right, what was the attack?

TRAVIS: No, it's a plus one because we took a short
rest, right?

SAM: We did.

MATT: When you take a short rest, yeah.

TRAVIS: That wipes it. Right? Or a long rest wipes
it.

MATT: Yeah. I believe for Craven Edge--

TRAVIS: Craven Edge. Strength loss/gain from this
feature lasts until your next short rest.

MATT: Short rest, yeah.

TRAVIS: So it's just plus one.

MATT: But you can say you don't have to take a
short rest if you don't want to. It's up to you.

TRAVIS: I didn't want to! I'm not hit. I was fine!
I was literally untouched.

MATT: Yeah, if you wanted to keep it, you would
have been able to walk around aggressively and

maintain it. That's fine.

TRAVIS: Yeah. Aggressively.

MATT: Okay.

MARISHA: (laughs) Walk around aggressively.

TRAVIS: 27 on the third one.

MATT: 27 hits.

TRAVIS: That's the damage.

MATT: Oh, that's the damage, all right.

TRAVIS: Can I use it against the bear?

SAM: Ooh.

TRAVIS: Or just the person, is he the only other
one in range?

MATT: Well, if you're rolling to hit, right?
Whoever you're attacking, the AC differs. So what

was your attack roll on that one?

TRAVIS: It was a 24.

MATT: Yeah, no, that hits the bear. So go for it.
Damage the bear.

TRAVIS: That was the damage, was 27.

MATT: 27 points against the bear, got you.

TRAVIS: Yeah.

MATT: All right, so after completely gutting the
first guy, you turn around and slam the axe into

the hide of the bear. Up close, you can see, the
bear, unlike Trinket, edges of its shoulders and

parts of its spine, you can see bone protruding
out in points and juts. It's different, a little

more dangerous than a regular bear you've
encountered at the get-go. However, your blade

does sink a good four to five inches into its
hide, cleaving a giant wound in its side. It howls

and seems very pissed off. But so are you.

TRAVIS: Does he have to make a constitution--

MATT: He did make his save at 15.

TRAVIS: Son of a bitch.

MATT: That end your turn?

TRAVIS: That does.

MATT: That ends your turn! All right, back up to
the top. Vax, you're up.

LIAM: All right, I'm still hidden, so I'm going to
move along the side of the tent behind those

barrels. And I want to throw two daggers at the
magic-using orc.

MATT: Magic-using orc?

LIAM: Didn't you say one of them was with a
circlet?

MATT: Oh. That one?

LIAM: That one.

MATT: Oh yeah, right there.

LIAM: Yeah, and I'm going to use my Sharpshooter
ability to do negative five to the attack roll,

plus ten to damage.

MATT: To the damage? Go for it.

LIAM: I'm going to use Luck. Same exact roll.
First one--

LAURA: You should roll in your box.

LIAM: Okay. I need Wyrmwood! Critrole. 17 from the
first.

MATT: 17 hits.

LIAM: 17 hits. And the second one is 15.

MATT: 15 misses, unfortunately.

LIAM: Misses, but the sneak attack damage travels
on the first dagger.

MATT: Yes it does.

LIAM: Yes it does. So here it comes. (counting)
33. 33 plus six! 39.

MATT: 39, is that with the plus ten?
Sharpshooter?

LIAM: Oh. No, it's not!

MATT: So 49.

LIAM: 49.

MATT: 49 points of damage, as you dart up along
the side of the tent, getting behind the barrels.

It sinks right into the back, between the shoulder
blades of the chief orc of this group. You see

his whole body tenses up from the severe amount of
pain and he tries to reach at from the back and

spins around, looking straight at you.

LIAM: Hey, go fuck yourself. I stare him down.

MATT: All right, okay. Ending your turn there.
Percy, you're up.

TALIESIN: Okay, I'm going to grab the javelin
really quick. I'm going to walk over to the guy

who's just starting to crawl out of the pit.

MARISHA: Yeah, yeah, yeah.

(laughter)

TALIESIN: I'm going to look him in the eye.
Javelin goes right in the face.

MATT: Roll for an attack.

TALIESIN: I'm using it as a stabbing weapon. I'm
not letting go until he drops.

MATT: Right, no. I understand. I do not believe
the javelin is finesse. So this may be a

strength-based attack. Let me double-check.

LIAM: But it's already happened.

TALIESIN: That's fine. It wasn't about the
strength!

MATT: So it's your strength bonus plus five.

TALIESIN: Strength bonus plus five?

TRAVIS: With advantage because he's hanging over
a--?

MATT: What's your strength modifier?

TALIESIN: One.

MATT: So plus six for this roll.

TALIESIN: Plus six?

MATT: Technically, you get advantage because he's
there, technically prone as he's getting up out of the--

TALIESIN: Six, seven, eight, nine, 11.

MATT: 11. Your first attack you whiff. He ducks
out of the way, actually pulling down into the pit

and it misses his head, and he gets up again and
extends a hand to reach out towards your ankle.

TALIESIN: Throw it away, pull out the gun and
shoot.

(laughter)

LIAM: What a Raiders moment!

TRAVIS: Yes! Totally.

MARISHA: Yes, totally Indy-ed it!

TALIESIN: First shot to the face. That's still
better. 17 to hit?

MATT: That hits.

TALIESIN: Okay. That's 15 points of piercing
damage.

MATT: As soon as he reaches out for your ankle,
you pull a pistol out and he looks up at you. The

front of his head detonates and he slumps
backward, falling into the pit silently.

MARISHA: Silently. Oh no.

TALIESIN: I'm going to look up to see if anybody
has noticed that this has happened.

MATT: The two guys that were throwing javelins at
you have watched this happen. They seem

unaffected, they're just really pissed off at you. Orcs
aren't-- they're used to seeing their friends die,

they keep coming at you, so these two are like,
(growls).

TALIESIN: All right, I'm going to pick one of them
and take another shot. The one on the left, I'm

going to take a-- yeah, let's do a sharpshooter
shot on him.

MATT: Your left, okay.

TALIESIN: Yeah, our left.

MATT: Okay, go for it.

SAM: Stage right.

TALIESIN: Yeah, that'll hit. 26.

MATT: 26 hits.

TALIESIN: That's 17 points of damage.

MATT: 17 points of damage, got it. This one is a
gut shot, hits him on the side of the stomach and

you can see part of the back of the armor blow
out, and he grabs it for a second and keeps

looking towards you, seemingly un-fully phased by
the impact of the blow. Going to stay where you are?

TALIESIN: Yeah.

MATT: Okay. Use that pit to your advantage. Good.
Ending Percy's turn, Keyleth, you're up. Vex,

you're on deck.

MARISHA: Okay, I'm going to take the two dudes who
are in front of me, you can tell me if I can do

this twice or not, I want to do my multi-slam
attack, my multi-attack slam, and I want to go, in

as dictated in Common as I can as an earth
elemental, knock. Knock. And I want to take their

heads and go, boof-boof.

MATT: (laughs) Okay, so you'll move one, two to
get into combat range with two of them. Go ahead

and make a slam attack against each of them.

MARISHA: Against each of them?

MATT: Yes.

MARISHA: Okay. Natural 19 on the first one.

MATT: All right.

MARISHA: And a natural 18 on the second.

MATT: I'm going to say those both hit. Go ahead
and roll slam damage.

LIAM: (rock voice) Knock-knock.

MARISHA: (rock voice) Knock-knock. (normal voice)
First attack is 13 plus-- 18 points. Second, not

as good, ten points.

MATT: Ten points. So you take the larger orc who's
coming at you with full plate armor and this

greataxe that it's bearing towards you, hacked at
you twice last round, and the one that just got

shot in its gut by Percy. You stumble in the front
of them and they both look up at you for a second,

snarl before you go, "Knock-knock." (whack) Crack
their heads together. The one that Percy shot

pulls back, its nose is smashed and it's a smear
of blood on the front of its face, it's still

standing but it stumbles back a bit. The other
orc, however, as you pull back in your hand you

look down, most of its face is completely caved
in, you hear a slight gurgle and a little blub of

blood come out of what used to be its mouth before
its body goes limp in your grasp.

MARISHA: Can I take his body and chuck it in the
hole?

MATT: Sure, you take it and throw it over your
head. It arcs right in front of you, Percy, down

into the pit. You hear a (yelp) as the final
remnants of the dryad are crushed by the fall.

LAURA: Oh no!

MARISHA: It served its purpose.

MATT: All righty. That finishes your turn,
Keyleth.

MARISHA: Yeah.

MATT: Vex, you're up.

LAURA: Oh, me? I thought Travis was after--

TRAVIS: I'm at the bottom of the round.

LAURA: Oh, every time?

MATT: Yeah, he changed his initiative.

LAURA: Oh, okay. I want to shoot Trinket out into
a Cannonball from--

MATT: Okay, this'll be your action to do this.

LAURA: Okay. I'm going to move up to where I'm
lined up with all of that row, so this whole

shebang right here.

MATT: Over here?

LAURA: Yeah. All of these guys.

TRAVIS: Yeah, please me too.

LAURA: And you too, because you practiced it with
him.

TRAVIS: Yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah.

LAURA: Take out the thing and say, Trinket!
Cannonball! And shoot him out and try to roll into

all those guys there.

MATT: Okay, so using your action and Trinket's
bonus action as part of the attack here.

LAURA: Right.

MATT: Trinket all of a sudden leaps out of the
necklace, slamming into the larger bear in front.

For 30 feet, that's five, ten, 15, 20, 25, 30.
What's Trinket's movement?

LAURA: His move is 40.

MATT: 40. You have 40, landing right there. Go
ahead and roll three attacks.

LAURA: Three attacks.

TRAVIS: Good boy.

LAURA: Oh god, really? He gets advantage because
he's awesome.

MATT and LAURA: No.

LAURA: He rolled pretty fricking bad. 12?

MATT: 12 hits the bear. It's a big bear. What's
the second attack?

LAURA: 15?

MATT: 15 just hits the orc. And the third one?

LAURA: One!

MATT and LAURA: Miss.

MATT: All right, so go ahead and roll the
Cannonball damage on those two.

LAURA: What is that?

MATT: It should be on Trinket's sheet as one of
the attacks.

LAURA: Cannonball, exclamation point. Cannonball.

MATT: If you don't have it written down, I have it
in my--

LIAM: Yeah, go for that.

LAURA: Yeah.

MATT: Okay. (laughs)

LAURA: You know what, you sent it to me forever
ago, it's in my email somewhere, Matt.

MATT: That's okay. I have it here in my pdf, it's
fine. As part of your beastmaster--

LAURA: Can you tell me what magical beasts I can
conjure while you're at it, because--

MATT: I will fight you. All right, 2d6 plus eight
bludgeoning damage.

LAURA: 2d6 plus eight, okay.

MATT: However, the one that missed does get an
opportunity attack against Trinket.

SAM: Oh, snap.

LAURA: I suck. 2d6 plus eight.

LIAM: Hey, that's not bad.

LAURA: 12 on the first.

MATT: Okay, 12 on the first. As the bear slams
into the larger bear, like rolling over the top,

and then comes down onto the second, the other
target, the orc, smashing into him. The orc almost

gets knocked off his feet and then the third one
sidesteps and swings at Trinket, so go ahead and

roll damage for the second orc.

TRAVIS: Nice.

LAURA: That's better. 17 on the second.

MATT: 17. Trinket crushes the other orc who'd
already been softened up from the blow from

Keyleth's earth elemental.

LAURA: Yes, good job Trinket!

MATT: As Trinket rolls past, you can see this
crushed form of the orc on the ground in the snow,

crushed in place.

LAURA: Good job, buddy!

MATT: Most of the bones broken and turned to dust.
The third one, however, sidesteps and is going to

go ahead and take a swing at Trinket. That is
going to be a 19 to hit.

LAURA: 20!

MATT: 20. Right across the top of Trinket's armor,
no effect.

TALIESIN: Can't even hit a bear.

LAURA: Really dizzy though.

MATT: That's going to be your turn, though.

LAURA: Okay.

MATT: All right. That brings us to Pike. Pike--

LAURA: Can I use my bonus, though? Do I have a
bonus action on top of that?

MATT: Sure.

LAURA: Hide?

MATT: You did not start your round hidden,
unfortunately. Or did you? Oh no, you did, you

did! You totally did, yes, so you can hide. Roll
stealth. You'll have to move back over here--

LAURA: Natural 20!

MARISHA: Hey!

MATT: So you move back behind the tree so you can
find a place to hide. And then you go ahead and

vanish. Cartoon-style, like run behind the tree
and don't come out the other side.

LIAM: Does she paddle the canoe down?

MATT: Pike's going to go ahead and, one, two,
three, four, five. With the view there is going

to go ahead--

LIAM: Come on, golden child. I want the Pike.

MATT: Pike's going to go ahead and continue to run
over here, because she sees that the guy who's

hanging up there who has three javelins stuck in
him now is like passed out and bleeding.

LAURA: Oh no.

MATT: She's making her way around to try and heal
him.

LIAM: Such an Ashley thing to do.

MATT: All right. Their turn now.

SAM: Oh boy.

MATT: This guy here is going to go ahead and
converge, well no, locked in with Trinket, he's

not going to take the attack of opportunity from
him. This guy's going to move here, that orc's

going to move around to--

LAURA: Look at how teeny Trinket is compared to
the other bears!

MATT: I know. This bear's going to go ahead and
move in on you, Marisha. Big old dire-bear-looking

creature bearing down on you.

MARISHA: I brace.

MATT: All right, so. The war chief begins to
scream out, (yelling in Orcish), pointing at you,

Grog. And you see the other orc on the other side
goes, (yells) and seems to be energized by the

rousing cry that it's given, so advantage on
attack rolls for all within earshot.

TRAVIS: Come on, give us a tickle.

LAURA: You can do that?

MATT: This guy's actually going to move--

SAM: Well, maybe it's another spell or something,
yeah.

MARISHA: Paladin or some shit like that.

TALIESIN: Yeah, it's a very paladin thing.

LAURA: Man, that's a good thing to have.

MATT: All right. So since I moved him up last
round because he was hiding behind a tree there,

so the other larger orc, the one that was tending
the bears rushes up alongside with you as well,

Keyleth. All right, so the war chief is going to
make one attack as a bonus action, it can do that

against you, Grog, with advantage. That's going to
be a 22 to hit.

TRAVIS: That'll hit.

MATT: All right. You take 16 points of slashing
damage, reduced to eight, because you're raging,

so eight points of slashing damage as the war
chief comes down with its greataxe. It sinks a few

inches into your shoulder and it carves it down,
almost matching the scar you have across your

chest, and grinning at you the whole time. As you
grin back at it, his friend is going to come up

with its greataxe and is going to come down, this
is with advantage as well. That's going to be a 17

to hit?

TRAVIS: Misses.

MATT: That misses. As it comes up overhead to try
and swing down to go towards the top of the nape

of your neck and head area, you notice out of the
corner of your eye, bring up your sword and

deflect it down into the snow behind you, looking
over your shoulder at it. The bear is now going to

come up alongside and is going to make a bite and
a claw attack against you.

TRAVIS: Yeah.

MATT: That is going to be a 19 to hit?

TRAVIS: That's 19, my armor class.

MATT: And that's going to be a 21 to hit.

TRAVIS: Yep, both hit.

MATT: So you take nine points of piercing damage
as it bites you, reduced to four. We'll say four,

I'm trying to round down consistently going
forward. So you take four points of piercing

damage from that, and then you take 12, reduced to
six slashing damage.

TRAVIS: Okay. Ten total?

MATT: Total of 11 points of damage. Or ten, you're
right. From the bear. Bear attacking you, actually

no, first the orc attacking Trinket now.

LAURA: No!

MATT: With advantage.

LAURA: No!

MATT: Oh man, that's a 16 even with advantage.

LAURA: Ha!

MATT: Just slamming a greataxe over Trinket's
armor, Trinket--

LAURA: Trinket's yawning.

MATT: Bear against you, Keyleth, that's going to
be a natural 20 with the bite.

MARISHA: Ouch.

MATT: And natural 20 with the claws. Two
natural 20s in a row, that bear wanted a piece of you.

MARISHA: Keyleth was like, aw, cute. (screams)

MATT: 18, 24. We're looking at 30, no, 42 points
of damage on you in your elemental form from the bear.

MARISHA: Damn.

MATT: Bear bites into you and takes a mouthful of
stone and tears a chunk out of the front of your

sternum area and then with its claw swipes across
your face, ripping part of your elemental jaw,

exposing a little bit of soft earth beneath.

LAURA: Soft earth.

LIAM: That was your good jaw.

MATT: The other large orc, the larger one with its
axe is going to take two attacks with its greataxe

against you. That is a 21 to hit and an 18 to
hit.

MARISHA: Wait, I'm getting attacked by someone
else, too?

MATT: Yeah, the other large orc there.

MARISHA: Yeah, both of those hit.

MATT: All right. You take 24 points of slashing
damage as both of the greataxe blows come on from

the other side, you're being--

MARISHA: 24?

MATT: --chiseled down now. Yes. That's going to
end their turn. That brings us to Scanlan.

SAM: Have I freed them from their shackles?

MATT: We'll say as your action this turn, you will
have been able to get them both out of their

rope-binds, including the one that has the broken
arm.

SAM: Okay. The construction of the tent, can I
lift up the back and shuttle them out that way, or

do I have to cut through it or anything?

MATT: It's not-- the back flap is currently hit
into the ground with a stake. It shouldn't be too

hard to lift it up if you want to try.

SAM: I don't want to waste too much time in there.
You know what, I'll walk them out the front door,

point them towards the mansion. And say: run, do
not walk, to my beautiful, beautiful house.

MATT: Which way do you want to go?

SAM: To the right, stage right when I get out?

MATT: So right there? Okay.

SAM: Just enough to get them around the tent,
yeah, and on their way.

MATT: They come out, seeing all the action
happening, looking really nervous. Give you a nod,

and the woman says, "Thank you." And they both
turn, and if you point out the shimmering light,

they (running) and bolt off spending the entirety
of their round--

SAM: And I yell to them, wipe your feet before you
go in!

(laughter)

MATT: Okay, they won't quite reach the door, but
they're on their way out.

SAM: That's pretty much all I can move, you
think?

MATT: From there, yeah. Tiny gnome feet.

SAM: Okay. Do I have a bonus action?

MATT: You do.

SAM: All right. I will-- I can only really see
Keyleth around, right? Everyone else is hiding?

MATT: You don't see-- well, you see Pike, because
you're running behind. Pike is not making any

tink-tink-tink. Behind you, you can see Grog in a
frenzy.

TALIESIN: I'm hidden by Keyleth.

MATT: Yeah, you can't see Percy.

SAM: I will inspire Keyleth as my bonus action, I
will sing to her, (singing) her blood runs cold, her memory

has just been sold, my druid is a centerfold,
druid is a centerfold. I don't know.

(laughter)

MATT: If you've ever seen an earth elemental go,
huh? But you take your d10 inspiration die because

it was a catchy tune, seems familiar. All right.
That's going to end your turn, Scanlan?

SAM: That's it.

MATT: Grog, you're up.

TRAVIS: All this love for me, I'm flattered. And I
would like to use all three of my frenzied rage

attacks against the bear.

MATT: Go for it. First attack?

TRAVIS: First one, reckless, all three reckless,
the first two normal, maybe the third Great Weapon

Master, we'll see. 21.

MATT: 21 hits. Roll damage.

TRAVIS: Yes. Awesome. Six, 11, 20, that's 20.

MATT: 20. With that, you take the axe and you
swing it in a wide arc across the front of the

bear's body. As you hit the edge of the bone, it
splinters at the impact, and its shoulder-joint is

knocked out. The sword continues and cuts right
halfway into its throat and actually manages to

cut through a very main artery and the bear begins
to bleed out on the spot, onto the ground.

TRAVIS: Is that an automatic failed constitution
save?

MATT: With the constitution of the bear, no, it
makes it. 14.

TRAVIS: But he's dead, right?

MATT: It is dead, the bear is no longer of the
realm of the living.

TRAVIS: So I killed somebody, so I get an extra
attack, correct?

MATT: You still get, it's your bonus action--

TRAVIS: Oh, it's the bonus.

MATT: Right. So unless-- it's only helpful when
you're not frenzying.

TRAVIS: Beautiful.

MATT: When you're frenzying you get it every
turn.

TRAVIS: Yeah, I get it all the time!

MATT: Yeah.

TRAVIS: So can I turn to my right--

MATT: Yeah.

TRAVIS: To the next bloke.

MATT: Regular one or the war chief?

TRAVIS: The war chief, let's try the war chief.

MATT: Sure, all right. Regular attack or Great
Weapon Master?

TRAVIS: Regular, because I've just got two left so
we'll see how regular does.

MATT: Go for it.

TRAVIS: 22.

MATT: 22 hits. Go ahead and roll damage.

TRAVIS: 18.

MATT: 18. Makes his constitution save. So already
still wounded and bleeding from the dagger that

Vax left in him earlier, you manage to take the
blade down, sweeping across the front of its

armor, cutting and actually destroying and causing
this jagged edge to the front of its armored

breastplate. Make your next attack.

TRAVIS: The third one, let's do Great Weapon
Master.

MATT: Okay, go for it. With advantage.

TRAVIS: Natural 20.

LIAM: Orc down, orc down!

LAURA: Yes!

MATT: Okay. So roll damage.

TRAVIS: 32.

MATT: So you multiply that by two. Right? Before
the modifier.

TRAVIS: Before the modifier, it was--

MATT: 2d6, which you rolled what?

TRAVIS: I rolled a 12. Or no, it was seven plus
five and then my rage modifier.

MATT: Right, so it's seven times two, so 14 plus
your modifier and your rage.

TRAVIS: Wow, which is ten now. And Great Weapon
Master is ten.

MATT: Right. So that's plus 20 is what you're
looking at on top of that.

TRAVIS: Yeah.

MATT: So 14 plus 20, 34, and then roll 4d6 on top
of that, Brutal Critical.

LAURA: What!

TRAVIS: Ten. No. 11.

LAURA: 12.

TRAVIS: Not 11, 12.

SAM: 47.

MATT: How do you want to do this?

(cheering)

MATT: (laughs) Jesus.

TRAVIS: I would like to stick the hilt of Craven
Edge into the snow and reach forward and grab his

shoulders and pull him onto the point of the
sword.

MATT: So you throw the blade down, handle-first,
it falls a little bit forward. You reach forward

and grab the war chief and pull him down onto the
blade. He looks up at you, staring into your face

the entire time as you pull him over each jagged
inch of the blade.

TRAVIS: Yeah, let's see the light leave those
eyes.

MATT: The life expires as it falls forward on the
blade. Let me go ahead and make a constitution

save. That is 18, makes it.

TRAVIS: That's it, that's my turn.

LAURA: That was a good turn.

MATT: But he is done, that war chief is done. Well
done. That brings us to Vax.

LIAM: All right, I'm going to curve around to the
front of the tent I'm at and start aiming at the

larger orc who's whacking on Keyleth there.

MATT: All right, glancing at the tent by the way,
you do see there are a few people in there that are

still bound and shaking and trying to look out and
see what's happening.

LIAM: I see them, I note them, and I'm throwing
two daggers at the person attacking Keyleth, the thing.

MATT: All right.

LIAM: First one is, and I'm using-- I'm going to
use Luck. That's a point, straight up in the air.

LAURA: Yeah.

LIAM: Fuck, okay, the first one probably misses.
16, and I was using the minus five, so the first

one probably misses, 11.

MATT: Yes, that guy right there?

LIAM: Yeah.

MATT: Yeah, that misses unfortunately.

LIAM: All right, second one.

MATT: Or it doesn't miss, it hits him but it hits
the armor plates of his full plate, it's too, or

the plate of the armor it's wearing is too strong
and the blade can't pierce it.

LIAM: Second one is a 26.

MATT: That does hit.

LIAM: Which hits, and since he's up against
Keyleth I get sneak attack damage.

MATT: Correct.

LIAM: So here comes the damage. (counting) 25.

MATT: 25. With that, the first one hits the armor
and streaks off and vanishes into the snow. The

guy turns around and looks over and looks at you
directly, grins, shrugging off the earth elemental

to his side, grabs his greataxe and begins to move
forward in a direction towards you angrily.

However, as you let loose the second dagger, it
catches him right in the center of the face,

embedding itself between his eyes, and one wanders
off as the momentum carries it forward three or

four steps. (thudding) And grinds its face into
the ground right before reaching you, into the

fire. The body catches flame as soon as it lands,
collapsing into one of the campfires and it begins

to burn.

LIAM: Sorry, sweetheart. And I feel the dagger
go--

MATT: Yep, to the side of your Blinkback Belt. All
right, do you want to stay right there? You have

more movement if you want to use it.

LIAM: How much left? Like five or ten?

MATT: Three more squares, 15 feet.

LIAM: I'm going to walk up right up next to
Keyleth in front of the bear. One, can I go

diagonally?

MATT: Through the fire, you can if you want to.

LIAM: Yeah, yeah.

MATT: Make an acrobatics check, go for it.

LIAM: 27.

MATT: Okay, yeah, you basically run and leap up
over the body of the guy you just killed, using

him as a stepping stone, and you see ash and
embers (whoosh) out the side as the pressure

pushes him further into the fireplace. You leap in
the air, land next to the one orc that's attacking

Trinket and right next to where Keyleth is
currently standing as the earth elemental.

LAURA: Not unlike a raven taking flight.

LIAM: Aren't you far away?

TALIESIN: (uncannily good crow noises)

MATT: Percy, you're up. That was way too good.

TALIESIN: I've been paid good money for that.

MATT: Your turn.

TALIESIN: I can emote as a bird.

MARISHA: Whose? His.

MATT: Percy's turn, yeah.

TALIESIN: My turn. Look at that, is there only one
guy standing now?

MATT: There are two guys standing right now, and a
bear.

TALIESIN: Okay, I'll look at that guy who's right
in front of me--

MARISHA: Two guys and a bear with Charlie Sheen,
new to CBS.

MATT: Oh, disadvantage on your next roll.

LIAM: For the rest of the arc.

MATT: Percy, what've you got?

TALIESIN: I'm going to take a push shot, I haven't
tried a push shot before, I'm going to do a push

shot on that guy in front of me.

MATT: Okay. Go for it.

TALIESIN: That's 29.

MATT: 29 hits.

TALIESIN: All right, that's 13 points of damage
and he pushes directly away from me ten feet.

MATT: He does. Into the fire.

TALIESIN: Yep.

MATT: So it does 13 damage, runs back, falls onto
the body of the other orc that's currently now

engulfed in flames and catches fire himself. He
takes six points of fire damage on top of that.

and is currently in danger of catching fire.

TALIESIN: That's good. And then, let's see, the
bear is a still a problem, isn't he?

MATT: Yes.

TALIESIN: I'll sneak another shot at the bear.

MATT: Go for it.

TALIESIN: This is going to be a sharpshooter and a
trick shot, I can't take both at the same time,

can I, it's one or the other?

MATT: No, sharpshooter is your feat. Trick shot,
you can't take multiple trick shots, but you can

sharpshooter and--

TALIESIN: And trick shot. I'm going to
sharpshooter and trick shot.

MATT: Made a mistake once, we learned.

TALIESIN: And that's 23?

MATT: 23 hits. Big bear. It's not that hard to
hit.

TALIESIN: Not that hard to hit? Has to take a
constitution saving throw.

MATT: That is 11.

TALIESIN: No, he has disadvantage on attacks until
the end of his next turn.

MATT: Headshot?

TALIESIN: Yep.

MATT: All right, so you go ahead and roll damage
for that.

MARISHA: Is this against the bear?

TALIESIN: Yeah. 25 points of damage.

MATT: 25 points of damage. You-- after you fire,
the one orc stumbling back and catching flames,

you turn around and look at the bear. Fire again,
it strikes the front of its bony ridge on its

head, where the brow line is, shattering part of
the bone and causing it to rear back. Looks very

disoriented. It's still angry and ready to swipe,
but it doesn't really know where it's standing at

the moment.

TALIESIN: I'm going to burn through my action
surge really quickly and reload and take two more

shots. Two more sharpshooter shots, nothing
fancy.

MATT: Go for it. Against?

TALIESIN: The bear.

MATT: The bear? Go for it.

LIAM: Don't be a happy bear, be a sad bear.

TALIESIN: 23.

MATT: Hits.

TALIESIN: That's 20 points of damage.

TRAVIS: Holy shit.

MATT: That actually, with that shot, you aim for
the other part of the brow, release it, and with

that it shatters part of the bear's face. You hit
a part of the bone ridge that causes the front of

the skull to break, and you can see part of its
face collapses a bit as the bear,

in a pile on the ground.

LAURA: No!

TALIESIN: So I have one last shot.

MATT: You do.

TALIESIN: Can I spend a grit to try and shoot the
rope that's holding that guy in the tree?

MATT: Yeah. You have disadvantage if you do.

TALIESIN: Disadvantage. Grit or no grit?

MATT: Oh, oh sorry, to use a grit point...

TALIESIN: I can actually technically get advantage
on the shot.

MATT: I was going to say, you could, yeah. So if
you want to do that, go for it.

TALIESIN: Yeah, so I'll spend a grit point on
that.

Natural 20.

TRAVIS: Ah! The golden snitch.

MATT: With that, you aim, take a moment, fire the
bullet. You catch it in a way where it doesn't

completely cut the rope, it's one of those rare
perfect shots where it takes two of the three

threads that holds the rope together, as they
untether, it causes his body to (creaks) and it

causes him to begin to sway a little bit. As the
counter-sway comes back, it snaps, and it manages

to catch him to hit the edge of the tree, fall
into a few branches that break his fall, and he

tumbles out.

SAM: Ow!

MATT: Only taking one point of damage.

TALIESIN: Can't even kill a kitten with that.

MARISHA: Can't even kill a kitten.

MATT: That was a one in a million shot right
there.

TALIESIN: No, it was a one in 20 shot.

MATT: One in 20 for you, yeah. One in a million
for anybody else. But you're Percival.

TALIESIN: I'm cool.

MATT: Okay, cool. That brings us to Keyleth,
you're up.

MARISHA: Who's left alive?

MATT: There are two orcs, one that's currently on
fire and down in the flame trying to pull itself

up. The other is currently whaling on Grog out of
anger, but is starting to look around and notice

it's not a very good situation.

TRAVIS: No no, stay, we've got party favors.

MATT: Keyleth, what have you got?

MARISHA: Are we still trying to keep one alive?

SAM: Sure we are.

MARISHA: Sure. All right.

TALIESIN: I assume the one that isn't on fire, but
you know, that's my opinion.

MARISHA: Yeah, sure. I want to earth glide
underneath and pop up underneath of him.

MATT: This guy here?

MARISHA: The fire guy, yeah.

MATT: The fire guy. He's actually on top of
another larger orc, so you burst through, the fire

is destroyed and you see a bunch of the stone is
thrown aside, what was the campfire has now been

detonated in a burst of snow and earth. You burst
out. Are you catching him?

MARISHA: Yeah. That's cool.

MATT: So you burst up, the bigger orc body then
rolls off onto the ground and keeps smoldering.

You catch the guy who's on fire, currently holding
him above you. What are you going to do?

MARISHA: First, I want to stamp him out in the
fire, in the snow, sorry. Stamp out his fire in

the snow.

MATT: You're clutching him. He's flailing about in
your grip. Fire's out.

MARISHA: And then I'm going to, I want to grapple
onto him. I want to start dragging him over to

this nearby tree.

MATT: So make a grapple check, it's an athletics.

MARISHA: Athletics?

MATT: Yep.

MARISHA: I've only got basic stats here.

MATT: Roll a d20, add your strength modifier.

MARISHA: Oh. 19. 20, 20.

MATT: He rolled a one. Yep. Through the flames and
the chaos, he can't even resist, and you have him

in a full grapple. He's not restrained, he can
still attack, but he's at disadvantage on all his

attacks, but he can't move, his movement is zero
and you're currently holding him in place.

MARISHA: Okay. Can I start dragging him over so--

MATT: At half-speed, yeah, you've already done 20
feet to get there, so you can move him ten feet.

MARISHA: Okay. I'll slowly start dragging him to
this tree over here. So we can tie him up.

MATT: One, two. That's as far as you can drag him
there.

MARISHA: Okay.

MATT: As you're pulling him back, and he's like,
(struggling noises).

MARISHA: Come on.

MATT: All right, that ends your turn. Vex, you're
up.

LAURA: All right, I'm going to turn Trinket
around, he's going to attack that dude that got a

hit on him. The one behind him.

MATT: Right here? Oh, the one behind him is the
one that currently is being dragged away after

being set on fire.

LAURA: Oh shit.

TRAVIS: There's one on me.

LAURA: Okay, he runs up to the one on Grog. But he
moves out of the way so that I can get a clean

shot on him.

MATT: Okay. Moves around.

LAURA: And he bites him and he claws him!

MATT: Go for it!

LAURA: Okay.

MATT: This is your bonus action?

LAURA: Huh?

MATT: You're giving him the attack on the bonus
action?

LAURA: I still get a bonus action, he gets to
attack and I get to attack.

MATT: Okay, so yeah, so you get one attack and he
gets both attacks. Go for it.

LAURA: Yeah, he gets two attacks because of
Bestial Fury. Gosh darn it! That one's good, okay.

He bites the shit out of him.

MATT: All right, go ahead and roll damage on
that.

TRAVIS: (laughs) "Gosh darn it!"

LAURA: What is that, 13? No, 12.

MATT: 12, all right.

LAURA: And then I'm going to shoot him from my
hiding spot.

MATT: Okay. So you dart out from behind the
tree and release an arrow, go for it.

LAURA: All right.

LIAM: Get it, girl.

SAM: Don't hit me.

LIAM: That's all right.

LAURA: 20.

MATT: 20 hits. Go ahead and roll damage.

LAURA: Great. 16 plus sneak attack. 19.

MATT: 19 points of damage. This arrow strikes him
in the side of the throat, he gurgles and falls on

the ground. As he's trying to grab, Trinket uses
that and pounces on top and rips out, tears its

throat out.

LAURA and TRAVIS: Yeah!

MATT: That orc is done. Currently, at this moment,
the camp is cleared out except for the one that

Keyleth's currently grappling, and you guys all
turn around and you can see now, there is the

other tent still filled with people. The other two
here disappear into the mansion's doorway.

MARISHA: (rock voice) Grog.

TRAVIS: Oh, sweet, yeah, hold on. You hold one
end, I'll hold the other. Wait. No, that might be

something-- never mind. And I take out Craven
Edge. I walk up to the orc that she's holding.

MARISHA: And I put him in a nice little sleeper
hold.

TRAVIS: Yeah, look, mate. So unless you want to
bleed or lose the head that's attached to your

body, are there more of you around these parts?

MATT: Make an intimidation check.

SAM: I don't think he can understand you, Grog.

TRAVIS: He speaks fear.

SAM: Oh.

TRAVIS: I get advantage on those because I--

MATT: Because of Craven Edge, yeah.

TRAVIS: 25.

MATT: The orc's looking at you, and while it was
putting on a brave face, as soon as you approach,

holding out Craven Edge, your muscles rippling
with the arcane strength of the blade that his

fallen friends have imbued you with, as each step
happens the shadows that drift off the blade begin

to drift up your arm and off your shoulder, and
from his perspective the whole world goes dark

around you as you take each step. And that grimace
on the orc's face falls into fight-or-flight fear.

He says, "No. We are the only ones. I am the only
one."

TRAVIS: Have you had any dealings with the
goliaths that are in Westruun?

MATT: "We don't deal with goliaths." Spits blood,
but it can only get, with what little bit of strength

it has left, only dribbles down the chin in a
not-very-aggressive way.

TRAVIS: Anything else?

SAM: Yeah, we need to know, wait. Does he know
anything else? Is there another camp, is there

anything?

TALIESIN: No.

SAM: They just had some prisoners?

TALIESIN: Yeah.

TRAVIS: Yeah, is there any reason why I should
leave you alive? (laughs) I love this question.

MATT: He goes, "No. I should go to whoever made
us. I will die here with my brethren. I will not

"run a coward."

LIAM: Has he seen a cave with a sphinx in it?

SAM: Yeah, sphinx?

TRAVIS: Before I dispatch you to your maker, have
you seen a sphinx or a cave of magical origin

around these parts?

MATT: "Rot in Kord's prison, half-giant."

TRAVIS: And I take Craven Edge and I grab both of
his ankles, and I pull them apart and I shove the

blade up under his grundle, and then rip one of
his legs off.

MATT: It's a horrific display. Even the earth
elemental takes a step back.

TALIESIN: Cool.

MATT: Fails the constitution saving throw.

TRAVIS: Yes!

LAURA: While that was going on, I wanted to run
forward and work on the guy that fell from the

tree. I wasn't paying attention to that.

MATT: Yeah, Pike has gone over to help, and he's
pretty messed up, but Pike's already gotten to him

at this point while this is happening. You come
over and aid and manage to keep him from dying.

He's unconscious, still, and he slowly comes to
consciousness--

LAURA: Does he look like the description that we
got?

MATT: Yeah, it's Cyrus. Bloodied, horribly
brutalized, but alive. What's your strength at now?

TRAVIS: Plus four to attack and plus 11 for
damage.

MATT: What's your strength score at?

TRAVIS: Oh, score. It is now 21.

MATT: 21, nice. Fuck, dude.

LAURA: You're stronger than Pike again.

TRAVIS: Yeah, only for a little bit.

MATT: All righty.

MARISHA: Are there any other prisoners still tied
up?

SAM: Yeah, I'm in the other tent untying them.

MATT: Yeah, there's three more in this side over
here, you guys were--

SAM: Calming them down, looking for loot.

TRAVIS: 20.

MARISHA: I was going to say, before I drop my
earth elemental form I start busting open some of

these crates for quick lootage.

MATT: You should have a higher strength than 20 if
you kept it from the last basilisk fight. Because

you're 17, you got how many bonuses from that
combat?

TRAVIS: Seven from-- without the short rest, so
it's been seven?

MATT: You've got seven bonus benefits.

TRAVIS: Yeah.

MATT: So you're 24 then, aren't you?

TRAVIS: No, only 21, because it takes two to go up
the thing, right?

LAURA: No--

TALIESIN: Oh boy.

MATT: Okay. So. Every time they fail a saving
throw, your strength goes up by one. Every two

strength, you get a bonus.

TRAVIS: Oh.

MATT: That's how it works.

TRAVIS: Oh. I'm at 24.

MATT: So your strength is 24.

MARISHA: (laughs) That's awesome!

MATT: Which means your overall strength bonus
should be plus seven.

LIAM: Juicing, man, he's juicing.

TRAVIS: I'm going to turn that plus four to a plus
seven.

MATT: Because your strength modifier normally is
plus three, correct?

TRAVIS: Correct.

MATT: At 17. With every even number it goes up,
and it goes up one point by each time you steal a

strength. Every two that you, every time it hits
an even number, 18, 20, 22, 24, the modifier goes

up by one. So yeah, if you're strength's at 24 right
now, your overall strength modifier is plus seven.

So it would be a plus four on top of whatever your
normal attacking damage was already.

LAURA: Wow.

TALIESIN: So your strength saving throw goes up by
one.

TRAVIS: So plus four is correct. I had plus four
down. Okay, got it. Got it, got it, got it.

MATT: Plus four on top of what you had normally,
yes.

TRAVIS: On what I had normally.

LIAM: Let's get this camp cleared and get these
people inside Scanlan's love shack.

MATT: As you're untying them, they're all, "Thank
you, thank you so much, they took us in the night,

"we didn't know, we thought we were dead." And some
of them start breaking down into tears. There's a

little girl in there that amongst everyone is
probably the most stalwart, and is trying to calm

one of the men that's sobbing, she's like, "It's
okay, it's okay." And is patting him on the shoulder.

MARISHA: It's always the kids, man. It's always
the kids.

LAURA: Are you survivors of Westruun?

MATT: "Yes. We were up by the base and they came
in the night and they killed my wife and they took

"me. They took everything."

LAURA: You're safe now.

MATT: "Thank you."

LAURA: As is your camp.

MATT: "Thank you."

TRAVIS: If I could ask, have you seen-- fuck,
Wilhand?

SAM: Wilhand?

TRAVIS: Yeah, Wilhand. Yeah.

LAURA: Small, older, gnomish fellow?

MATT: The little girl pipes up and goes, "Yeah,
yeah, Wilhand. He was as tall as me."

TRAVIS: I drop down to my knees. You seem very
brave. Do you know where Wilhand has gone?

MATT: "I haven't seen him since we left town."

LAURA: So he stayed in the town.

MATT: "I haven't seen him outside of it."

SAM: Oh, the town. We were in the camp. Okay.

LAURA: What's your name, darling?

MATT: "Vanessa."

LAURA: Vanessa. You're very strong, Vanessa.

MATT: "Thank you. You're very strong too."

LAURA: Oh, well, thank you. Do you like bears? Not
those scary ones but really nice ones?

MATT: And you see she's a little-- bears are a
rough subject for her, she's probably seen them

eat a few people she knew.

LAURA: Trinket sits back. He's friendly.

TRAVIS: He's super cuddly. And I run over and I
put Trinket in a headlock and give him a noogie.

See? Totally nice.

MATT: Trinket breaks free and licks you right
across the face, your beard up to the side again.

TRAVIS: Here we go again.

MATT: She chuckles.

MARISHA: I drop elemental form and start helping
Pike heal whoever needs healing.

MATT: Okay.

LAURA: I go for that circlet that was on the war
chief.

TRAVIS: Oh, good call.

LIAM: Grog.

TRAVIS: Yeah?

LAURA: I inspect it first.

LIAM: We should bury the dead. There's piles of
dead, we should bury them.

LAURA: Was it human bodies or animal bodies?

MATT: They were human bodies.

TRAVIS: Yeah, of course, you're right.

LIAM: We'll put them in the pit and then we'll
cover it up. Gimme a hand.

TRAVIS: Yeah. Whatever you need.

MATT: The rest of the people, while you guys are
doing this, have been escorted into the mansion.

They're all in there being cleaned up, the
servants are tending to them, and I mean, they'll

be shat out of there in 24 hours, but--

SAM: It's fine. They'll have a good night's
sleep.

MATT: At this point you hear a voice in the
distance say, "Hey! Is everything all right?"

LAURA: Oh, quite, come on over!

MATT: Walking out from behind a tree, a one-armed
man. He comes running over. "I heard a lot of

"craziness going on. Those-- you did good, saw a
little bit of it."

SAM: Did you have to use your dagger at all?

MATT: "No, but I kept it there just in case." And
he's still clutching it in his hand.

TRAVIS: There's one standing behind you right
now.

MATT: (yelps) Spins around and swings it, loses
his grip of it, and it (dagger flying) into the

tree, and he's like, runs over, grabs it.

TRAVIS: Nobody saw that. Totally cool.

MATT: "Okay, thank you." So you guys begin taking
the bodies over and putting them into the pit on

top of the orc that you blew most of the forehead
off of.

TALIESIN: Two orcs, what did we, two--

MARISHA: Two dryads.

TALIESIN: Two dryads, two orcs.

LAURA: The circlet?

MATT: Well, the dryads have vanished by now at
this point, the magic. You inspect the circlet,

the circlet is more of adornment, looks like it
was a symbol of power, does not appear to have

anything magical about it, but the uncut gem in
the center appears to be a raw ruby, probably

worth about 150 gold in its current form. You also
find on their bodies overall, from the ones that

you have access to, an additional 230 gold pieces.
And amongst the goods that have been gathered

here, if you should wish to return them or keep
them for yourself, there is roughly 700 gold

pieces amongst the other bits of dried food,
starting-to-rot vegetables.

SAM: There's a couple boars, right?

MATT: There are a couple boars that were dragged
in, that have been killed.

TALIESIN: Let's eat the food that won't last and
return, cook the boar and return.

MATT: There is one unspoiled fire.

MARISHA: Yeah, can we take a short rest?

TALIESIN: We can also bring the food into the
mansion and let the help cook it.

SAM: That's true. How about the casks, what's in
the casks?

MATT: There are four casks of varying size, there
are two large, large casks, there's one giant

grain barrel, there's one barrel that appears to
be of a standard ale, and there are two smaller

wine barrels. Only one of them appears to be
labeled, or at least hasn't been fully rubbed off.

They're nothing special, these are probably
grabbed by whoever ran a tavern in Westruun and

took what they could during the chaos.

TRAVIS: All ale and wine is special.

MATT: Fair enough.

SAM: We should take that, and wait, this meat, don't we
have a cold bag? Don't we have a cooler?

TRAVIS: We do!

SAM: Let's keep some meat.

TRAVIS: That nothing is in!

LAURA: No, we do have some stuff in it.

TRAVIS: Some stuff is in it!

SAM: Keep some grain and meat or something.

LAURA: All right, yeah, I'm keeping some boar
meat.

MARISHA: But seriously, I eat some because I'm--
Keyleth's a little hungry.

LAURA: I thought you were a vegetarian.

MARISHA: No, never said that.

TRAVIS: Can I try and roughly butcher this boar?

MATT: You've done it pretty well. You butcher the
boar, there's already a stump set up for you,

previously used for not quite as humane reasons,
but you manage to prepare the boar, cook it over

the area here. As the sun slowly begins to set,
you guys take your short rest. Is everyone taking

a short rest?

TRAVIS: Not me, not me.

MATT: Okay, so you maintain your damage, you still
maintain your--

SAM: Wait, the sun is setting, are we taking a
short rest or a long rest? Are we spending the night?

LIAM: Can't we go in your house?

SAM: Of course we can, yeah. Are we going to spend
the night? What time is it?

MATT: It's about five o'clock in the afternoon.

SAM: Oh, little early.

LIAM: Let's pack it in early. Who knows what'll
happen tomorrow?

SAM: Are we going up to the mountain?

LIAM: Yeah, tomorrow morning.

SAM: All right. Do we need to scout up? How far to
the mountaintop?

TALIESIN: We're not going to the mountaintop.

SAM: Or the glowing place.

MATT: Where the beacon is? Keyleth would be the
one that knows, since she's the one who marked it.

It's probably about an hour and a half's travel on
foot to get there.

SAM: We should go check it out before we go to
bed, swing by on a broom or something.

LAURA: I like it. I'll hop on the broom.

MATT: Okay.

MARISHA: Wait, check it out and then? Your door is
stationary, though, right?

MATT: The door is stationary, the door is on the
outside of this camp.

TRAVIS: But everybody inside's safe.

LAURA: Yeah.

TRAVIS: Do it.

LAURA: Can I stealth in the air?

MATT: Not really.

LAURA: Can I wrap myself in like my--

TRAVIS: What? Aluminum foil?

MATT: I mean, you will make a stealth check.

LIAM: You'll figure this broom out eventually.

MATT: I'm going to put it at disadvantage because
you are, it's possible, but you're also a giant

rocketing half-elf in the sky.

LAURA: I'm not that giant, okay?

TRAVIS: Wow. Wow.

MATT: Roll disadvantage.

LAURA: So I usually get advantage, so I'll just
roll regular.

TRAVIS: I love your broom rolls so much.

LAURA: Oh! Oh! You know what, I still have Pass
Without a Trace, because I never cast Hunter's

Mark to break that concentration.

LIAM: You nerd.

TRAVIS: I would not remember that shit.

LAURA: 23.

MATT: 23. All right. Cool. Don't forget your point
of exhaustion, Grog. From the end of the frenzied rage.

TRAVIS: Yes, thank you.

SAM: I'm going to go with her. You're going on the
broom? Yeah, I'm going to turn into a mangy crow

that looks like it would be with a witch.

LAURA: I like it. (cackles)

SAM: I'll Polymorph.

MATT: Polymorph. You follow her as a crow.

SAM: And I perch on her shoulder. (crow sounds)

TALIESIN: (unnervingly realistic crow noises)

SAM: Thank you!

MATT: That's so creepy.

TALIESIN: (unnervingly realistic crow noises)

MATT: Perfect.

SAM: Wow. Thank you.

MATT: So as you continue cresting over the top of
the tree ridge, heading towards the direction that

Keyleth points out to you, you guys swoop down. As
the treeline comes to an end, the snow begins to

subside and you reach the base of the Stormpeak.
There, make a perception check,

both of you, actually.

SAM: Mine sucks. Natural one.

LAURA: I'm so scared of all my dice right now.

MATT: What you got?

LAURA: 17.

MATT: 17? Okay.

LAURA: Oh wait! Favored terrain.

MATT: Mountains?

SAM: You're in the air, though.

LAURA: Forest at the edge of the mountain.

MATT: Does not pertain to the forest, more of it's
the mountain.

LAURA: Okay. 17.

MATT: 17, okay. As the sun finally hits the edge
of the mountain range and begins to set, and the

light's starting to diminish, you're having a hard
time picking out details. You know the general

vicinity that Keyleth pointed at you, it takes
longer than you anticipated, but eventually you

come-- and there are a few small caves and
entrances to the side of this mountain, but after

you sweep past once or twice, doing a couple
loops, one catches your eye. You look at it from

this vantage point. It looks like a small inlet,
like a cavern. As you get closer, unlike the other

rough entrances, this one seems intentionally
carved in the mountainside in a triangle. Directly

about 30 feet to its peak, there is a triangular
entrance to the very very base of this mountain

that is recessed into the mountain rock itself.

LAURA: I don't think we should land on the ground,
we should just stay above.

SAM: (crow sounds)

TALIESIN: (realistic crow sounds)

LAURA: You can't talk when you're a bird?

MATT: He cannot.

LAURA: Oh. This is really smart, you coming,
because we can't do anything. Do you want to pop

out of that, can you pop back in? One caw for yes,
two caws for no. You can't even understand me

right now? This is ridiculous.

SAM: I don't know, can I understand her?

MATT: You can understand her, yeah.

SAM: I'm just fucking with her, then.

(laughter)

MATT: But she doesn't know if you understand.

LAURA: I float down gracefully on the broom and
give it a little bit of a closer look.

MATT: Okay. As you pull down to the edge of the
tunnel, the cavern entrance, you can see the

relatively worn, through time and weathering, the
structure of the tunnel, even though it is

intentional, it has been there for a long time,
and you can see the effect that time has had on

it, from what was once a very pristine entrance.
Looking inside, it goes dark about 25 feet in. Do

you want to step further into the cavern?

LAURA: No no no, I'm still in the air, I'm not on
the ground.

MATT: Okay, so yeah, looking inside about 25 feet
past, what little bit of daylight that still exists

disappears into the shadow of the cavern, you
don't know anything beyond that.

LAURA: What do you think, Scanlan? Back up a
little bit and shoot a flaming arrow into that?

SAM: (caws)

LAURA: Sweet. I back up a little, far distance
away, and shoot a flaming arrow into it.

MATT: Okay, so you pull out your arrow, the shaft
ignites as you release it. It arcs forward and it

lights up a little bit of the tunnel around it,
tunnel continues--

LIAM: Good aim from the broom?

MATT: Decent aim.

LIAM: Okay.

MATT: I mean, it's not a wide target, she's
shooting it into an open 30-foot space.

LAURA: And it's not moving, it's not fucking
moving right now.

LIAM: I've watched Harry Potter, they always have
two hands on the broom.

LAURA: Why are you trying to do this to me right
now? Why you got to be a player hater?

LIAM: Because it's fun.

MATT: From the narrative standpoint, it's fine.
She could take another shot and it would make it

there anyway. You can see it go through, and it
arcs and then disappears. You see what looks like

an edge, and it vanishes past it.

LAURA: Well. That looks deep. I don't think we
should check this out on our own.

SAM: Might be fun.

LAURA: You're a bird, you could probably fly in
and fly back out.

SAM: Sure. (caws) Okay, I'll fly in.

MATT: Okay. You head down, coasting into the
darkness. Does your form have--

SAM: I have darkvision, I don't know what crows
have.

MATT: If you have darkvision. But you, crows--

SAM: I don't know what a crow has.

MATT: I will look it up real fast.

TALIESIN: I don't think a crow has darkvision.

MATT: Hold on, hold on.

TRAVIS: They're dark as night, man, of course they
do.

SAM: Are they daytime birds? They're daytime
birds. They're not owls.

TALIESIN: They're not owls.

SAM: Shit.

LAURA: Should've been a fucking owl.

TALIESIN: (owl sounds)

SAM: You can do that too? Quick, do a
nightingale.

MATT: No, you do not have darkvision as a--

SAM: So I'm just flying around in the dark
knocking into things.

MATT: Yeah. Essentially, you coast into the
shadow, hitting a couple things. You eventually

hit ceiling.

SAM: Ow!

MATT: And coast down and you land harshly, taking
three points of damage in your crow form as you

hit and land and tumble down a few stairs.

SAM: Ooh, stairs.

MATT: At that point, you're in complete darkness
right now, you can see a faint distant bit of

light that's barely creeping in from the entrance
you came from. Around you, though, nothing.

SAM: I'll break form and come back as Scanlan.

MATT: Okay. You come back as a gnome. Now your
darkvision kicks in and indeed you can see there

is a smoothly carved tunnel overhead that descends
down a long flight of stairs. Make a perception check.

SAM: Natural 18.

(laughter)

MATT: And you have 60-foot darkvision? As a
gnome?

SAM: It just says darkvision. I didn't write down
the distance.

MATT: Okay, I'm going to look this up real fast.
Because this is important to know for this

circumstance.

LIAM: By the way, blackbird has a hit point of
one, so technically you popped back into gnome

form the second you hit the ground.

MATT: Does it actually have one hit point?

LIAM: Yeah.

MATT: Then yeah.

MARISHA: Darkvision is 60 feet, I wrote it down.

SAM: 60 feet. I'll write it down for the future.

MATT: There you go. So yeah, your vision just hits
the edge of the staircase, which stops, and then

continues forward. The darkness beyond there is
obscured, or a hint of blue light that slightly

shifts and glimmers beyond your vision. It seems
like the tunnel ceiling ends as the path continues

beyond that, and your vision is cut off beyond
that. You cannot see, but you do see a very very

faint blue shimmer coming from the tunnel beyond.

LAURA: I float up to the edge of the mouth of the
cave and say, (whispers) Scanlan?

MATT: (echoes) Scanlan, Scanlan, Scanlan.

SAM: Wow, I've always wanted that to happen.

MATT: (echoes) Happen, happen--

LAURA: (whispers) Are you alive?

SAM: Can I see down the blue thing?

MATT: You can go down further if you want to.

SAM: I don't want to go to where the blue is, I
just want to see if I can peek down there?

MATT: You'd have to descend the stairs to. Because
the actual tunnel continues down along with the

roof and then as it continues past, it levels
off.

SAM: I'm going to die. I'm going to shoot one
single Magic Missile into the space.

MATT: (laughs) Okay.

LAURA: What if that's his face?

MATT: All right, so you take the wand, and the
Magic Missile, which gives a very faint

candlelight glow around it as it is a burst of
arcane energy, arcs down and slams into the

stonework and filters out. The little flash you
see at the base of the stairway, the stonework

there is like a tiled square stonework, it looks
like the further you descend, the more and more

there is a constructed architecture to this place,
however, the missile dashes against the stone tile

floor at the bottom of the stairway. No other
seeming reaction, that same blue glimmer

unchanged.

SAM: Okay. I quickly pee a little on the side of
the wall, just a little bit, okay. Zip up, turn

into an owl and get outta there. At level five,
because I'm out of level four.

MATT: Okay, so. (hooting) An owl ascends quickly
and spooks you.

LAURA: I stay at the mouth of the cave and say,
(whispers) Scanlan, are you alive?

MATT: (echoing) Alive, alive, alive.

LAURA: (whispers) Scanlan?

MATT: (echoing) Scanlan, Scanlan.

LAURA: Wait. Scanlan! Is that you? You were a
crow.

SAM: (confused hooting)

LAURA: Okay. That's you. Should we go?

TALIESIN: You're just turning your head 180
degrees back and forth, aren't you?

SAM: Oh yeah.

LAURA: We should go back. One hoo for-- I start
flying back.

MATT: Vex takes off on the broom. All right. You
guys head back to the camp, make your way into the

mansion, and rest for the evening. You don't rest
for the evening?

TRAVIS: No.

SAM: What?

LAURA: You're exhausted.

TRAVIS: I have one level of exhaustion, I'm okay.

TALIESIN: I'm going to spend a little time
tinkering before I sleep, working on the broom.

MATT: Okay.

LIAM: I never stopped digging, can I assume that
everybody's buried?

MATT: At this point in time, yeah. By the time
they've been gone, everyone's been buried,

everyone's been taken care of, and you make your
way back, waiting at the door for your sister to return.

TRAVIS: What's the second level of exhaustion?

MATT: Yeah, so yeah, for not taking your evening's
rest you get a second level of exhaustion and your

speed is halved.

TRAVIS: Okay. I want to see how far this can go. I
want to push this.

TALIESIN: I've tried this experiment in real life.
It never ends well.

(laughter)

TRAVIS: I'm willing to learn.

MATT: Okay. So we'll go ahead and take a break as
the party is resting for the evening, we'll be

back here in a few minutes, guys, to continue this
next chapter of Vox Machina's adventure. All

right, see you in a little bit.

[break]

MATT: Hey guys, welcome back. So. Kicking into
high gear to return to the game as it's going. You

guys go through your restful evening, except for
Grog, resting up and getting prepared for whatever

comes your way, except for Grog. As you spend the
night fending off sleep, staring at Craven Edge

there on your lap, feeling the cold blade against
your fingertips and considering and still feeling

the strength that it's imbued upon you pulsing
through your veins.

TRAVIS: Yeah, could I ask it one question?

MATT: Yeah, yeah.

TRAVIS: Right, it was a good day, right? Like,
superb.

MATT: "Yes."

TRAVIS: Do you remember your former owners?

MATT: "I do."

TRAVIS: Do you remember Lord Briarwood?

MATT: "I do."

TRAVIS: How was he?

MATT: "He was a stalwart champion. He kept me fed.
Mostly."

TRAVIS: Did he give you a goal? You know, before
we put him into different pieces, he was, like,

trying to build up this god called Vecna. You
don't know anything about a god called Vecna, do you?

MATT: "Doesn't interest me."

TRAVIS: No?

MATT: "No."

TRAVIS: Just the blood.

MATT: "Just the hunger."

TRAVIS: Right, the hunger.

MATT: "It's all there is, is the hunger."

TRAVIS: But look, we did really good today. So I'm
not going to go to sleep, I'm going to carry this

over the next day, I want to see how hard we can
push this.

MATT: "So close to being full."

TRAVIS: You're close to being full? Hold on, how
many more lives do you need?

MATT: "I'm close."

TRAVIS: Do you know, do you know what happens when
you get full? Like, do you get bigger? Do I get stronger?

MATT: "Feed me and you'll find out."

MARISHA: Oh boy.

TRAVIS: You've got it. Can I insight check the
sword?

MATT: Yeah.

LIAM: Yes please!

(laughter)

TALIESIN: I've never been so happy.

TRAVIS: (clears throat) Two.

(laughter)

MATT: It's hard to read the blade, but the
disposition doesn't seem to have changed any of

your previous conversations, so seems hard to
read. It's a sword.

TRAVIS: Outstanding. I tell you what, if you get
full, we'll celebrate this upcoming day

as your birthday.

MATT: "If you insist, Grog Strongjaw."

TRAVIS: And that'll do me for the night.

MATT: All right. You all come to, rallying your
breakfast, your chicken-filled breakfast.

LAURA: And some boar!

MATT: And some boar, freshly cooked by Grog, who
has some dark circles under the eyes from a night

of unrestful consciousness.

LAURA: How you doing there, Grog? And I slap him
across the face a few times.

TRAVIS: Really good.

LAURA: Yeah?

TRAVIS: Yeah, I slept really hard.

LAURA: That's good.

TRAVIS: Lots of dreams.

TALIESIN: All right. Let's send our friends on
their way and make our way to

the cavern that you found.

TRAVIS: Yeah, we send them back towards the camp
zone, right?

SAM: Yes, and they have a mapmaker with them, so
they'll find it without a problem.

LAURA: They'll know how to get back.

MATT: Tyriok's like, "Yes, I can actually find our
way back quite easily from this position, as we've

"already traveled this way and I have a good memory
for these types of things. I have to."

LAURA: Yes. Will you and Cyrus inform everyone
else that it's safe for them-- oh shit, we're not

back, they can't go there. We'll be back, and
we're going to send you to Whitestone, where

you'll be safe.

SAM: Eventually. But right now, just go to your--

TALIESIN: Well, they were fine rolling around, we
already sent the wounded and the young to

Whitestone, they're fine.

LAURA: Yeah, yeah, yeah.

MATT: "All right, then, that can be done, and can
I take my satchel with me in case I can find some

"way to recover it?"

LAURA: Of course, it's yours, darling.

MATT: "All right." And he takes the stone
arm-slash-satchel and tucks it under his arm. "All

"right. Rest of you." And Cyrus steps forward. "All
right, well, lead the way." And they all give you

guys a thank-you, the little girl runs up,
Vanessa, and hugs you and hugs Keyleth, and Cyrus

and them pull a couple of the orcish weapons that
were left behind and arm themselves. Cyrus

actually takes a couple of javelins and is like,
(sighs) "I think the proper way to make vengeance

"with these. All right, you guys stay safe."

LAURA: You too.

MATT: "Really appreciate it."

LIAM: Tyriok!

MATT: "Yes?"

LIAM: Could I have my loaner back, please?

MATT: (laughs) "Oh, right, right, yeah,
certainly." He pulls it out and hands it to you.

LIAM: I'll take that carefully. Thank you.

LAURA: You can keep the opal dagger I gave you.

MATT: "Oh, thank you thank you thank you so
much!"

TRAVIS: (under his breath) Infertility.

MATT: Puts it back away. "I appreciate that. All
right, so we'll be off?" The rest of the people

nod, they take some of the supplies from the
wagons, they begin making their way back on the

already treaded path you guys made that Tyriok
knows is safe to get out of the Frostweald.

LAURA: Scanlan, did you see how generous I was
just then?

SAM: Nope, missed it.

LAURA: What's wrong, Grog?

TRAVIS: What?

SAM: Did you have trouble sleeping?

TRAVIS: Yeah, no, look, the sand pit was, I think
I need to comb it after you use it.

SAM: Sand pit? I have a bedroom for you.

TRAVIS: What? There's a training area downstairs
just for me.

SAM: Oh Grog, you have your own bedroom upstairs.
It's got a giant-sized bed in it.

TRAVIS: I haven't been using it.

SAM: Oh, for crying-- I spent minutes thinking
about conjuring that.

MARISHA: Grog, you did sleep last night, right?

TRAVIS: Yep. Yeah, I mean, like, I had my way with
a few of those imaginary friends, because, man.

No. It was good. Good sleep. Real, a little sore
in my back.

LIAM: I'm going to make an insight check on Grog.

MATT: Insight check, go for it.

LIAM: Yeah. 16.

MATT: Okay.

SAM: Whispers!

LAURA: Whispers about Grog?

LIAM: I've never had a whisper before!

LAURA: You've never had a whisper?

LIAM: On the show.

TALIESIN: It's warm in your ear.

SAM: I don't know what products we're selling
currently, but I assume there are some.

TALIESIN: We do know that Gilmore's Glorious Goods
shirts will be shipping out next week.

SAM: Oh wow! The preorder shirts?

TALIESIN: Gilmore's Glorious Goods shirt, the
preorder shirt will be shipping out next week.

We'll be using this time to ignore what's
happening over here while the Gilmore's Glorious

Goods shirts ship out next week.

MARISHA: And of course don't forget to tune in
next week for our 50th episode.

TALIESIN: 50th episode. Not anniversary.

SAM: 50th episode. There's going to be special
giveaways. I don't know. Is that true? I don't know.

LAURA: What, no, there's not.

MATT: So. What do you want to do?

MARISHA: Shall we? Up the mountain!

LAURA: Wait. So did we already tell everyone what
we saw?

MARISHA: I'm assuming you told us when you got
back.

LAURA: Yeah.

MATT: You guys informed the party of what you
saw.

SAM: There's a triangle, seems to be Ioun-based.

LAURA: Blue light.

SAM: Smells of urine inside, it's very weird.

LIAM: Scanlan, maybe not black birds for a while.
All right? It's a touchy subject.

SAM: Ooh, sorry. I forgot. Well actually, no, I
don't know what you're talking about.

LIAM: Stay away from black birds for a while.

SAM: Okay.

LIAM: Thanks, buddy.

SAM: Sure, no problem.

MATT: All right. You guys make your way southward
to the Frostweald.

SAM: The Frostweald.

MATT: Frostweald? Frostwold?

TALIESIN: Frost-vield. What is wrong
with-- Frost-vield.

MARISHA: Frost-Willem Dafoe.

SAM: Sig-il.

MATT: I will smite you.

MARISHA: Jif.

TALIESIN: Jif. God damn it, you beat me to it.

MATT: All right. You guys continue to head south,
eventually following the path that you lead along

with Keyleth's directional--

LAURA: I keep an eye out for any enemies along the
way.

MATT: Indeed you do, make a perception check,
being the scout person for this.

LAURA: I'm going to do that with advantage because
I'm in the woods.

MATT: You're in the forest, yeah, that is true.

LAURA: 25.

MATT: 25. With that, you manage to skirt the
outside of what appears to be another localized

basilisk nest. You catch it early enough and guide
the party around it to avoid that on your way.

LAURA: Let's go this way and then circle back.

MATT: You eventually make your way to the
outskirts of the forest, the trees begin to thin

out, the snow begins to melt, the temperature
begins to rise somewhat. It's still cold-ish, but

it's less freezing.

TRAVIS: Oh right, the Frost-weald.

MATT: Yeah, there's been a long-term enchantment
over this forest that has kept it the way it is,

you're not certain as to what the actual reasons
are for it. Eventually, as the sun reaches not

quite zenith but later morning, you find your way
to the outside of this tunnel that you and Scanlan

had found the evening before. There before you,
you guys see the 30-foot-tall triangular entrance

to this passageway deeper into the mountain
itself.

LAURA: So this is the place. Technically, Scanlan
flew in, so I don't think he had to check for traps.

SAM: I did not check for traps, I just flew in,
but perhaps we should this time.

LIAM: Lead me in as far as you went.

SAM: If you'll check for traps.

LIAM: Yeah. Where you flew over, yeah.

SAM: Yes, let's do it.

LIAM: In the entrance and down those stairs.

MATT: All right. So go ahead and make an
investigation check.

LIAM: 20. No, 17.

MATT: 17.

SAM: I will also check for traps.

MATT: Okay. Make an investigation check.

SAM: 22.

LIAM: Checking for traps, I should know this, but
is that separate from perception for me?

MATT: Perception is to notice various details in
here, if you're actually actively searching for

trap mechanisms like that, investigation is
generally more used. Yeah.

SAM: 22.

MATT: I mean, they're both pretty similar in some
ways and it depends on the circumstances.

LIAM: But is it a different roll? Traps? Or is it
just perception and investigation?

MATT: Perception and investigation, depending on
the circumstance, one or the other. For the most

part, perception would be like if you notice
something wrong about the room, you'd be like,

that stone seems different, then you would do
investigation to try to find out what type of trap

it is per se, or if you were actively searching
for traps, that would be more of an investigation,

like knowing where you've seen around, and seeing
the terrain to possibly facilitate something like that.

LIAM: It's only my third year doing this.

MATT: I know, it's all good. What did you have
again?

SAM: 22.

MATT: 22. All right. As you guys slowly descend
the steps, as you get about 25, 30 feet into the

tunnel before it lowers into these stone steps,
and they're rather large steps. Each spread of

your gait is wider than the common step, and these
have been around for a very long time. You can see

where the corners are, they're rounded. Looks like
at points in time there may have been flooding in

this area that has caused that type of softening
of the stonework at the tip, though the little bit

of moisture that's in this area seems to be from
blown-in snow possibly or another source you don't

currently see. It is pitch-dark in here, if anyone
would like to--

TRAVIS: I have darkvision.

MATT: He has darkvision. Darkvision, darkvision.
Darkvision, darkvision. Absolutely blind.

LIAM: I'm pulling out Flametongue dagger.

MARISHA: Then I'll light up my hands a little
bit.

MATT: Okay, so you guys have a low candlelight, so
it gives you a little bit of vision, but it's

still very, very dim. You guys make your way down
the stairway, step to step, and you can hear each

footstep echoes as you continue downward. It
progresses deeper and deeper and you begin to see

this gentle blue flickering light at the very
bottom of the staircase as it begins to approach,

and your eyes have adjusted to the darkness at
this point in time.

LAURA: Does it look like water reflection?

MATT: It looks like it could be some sort of
water-like movement, and as you hit the bottom of

the stairway and it evens out into these square
stone tiles across the way, you see ahead of you

what looks to be a singular circular room with no
exits from what you can tell at this point. Just a

circular room that loops around, and in the center
there is a ten-foot pool of a still, somewhat

still surface of water. There is a little bit of
movement because there is some sort of a cold

breeze that was ejecting out of the tunnel, but
there is no real source of the wind that you can

pick up at the moment.

LAURA: Can I investigate the walls? Did you
already check for traps in this room?

LIAM: I did an investigation check.

MATT: As you entered this room?

LIAM: Yeah, I'll do it again here.

MATT: That was when you guys were going down the
stairway, go ahead and make the roll.

LIAM: I'm going to use Luck.

SAM: I got a 24.

MATT: 24, okay.

LIAM: 18.

MATT: 18, okay. The two of you, there is a very,
very faint blue glow that is emanating from below

the surface of the water that is giving this very,
very tiny bit of light to the room. Thankfully

because most of you are darkvision-based, it
doesn't impede you from seeing all the details in

the room. Percy, you'll still not be able to make
out the fine details.

TALIESIN: That's why I'm in the back.

MATT: But between the two of you inspecting the
edges, there are no seams, there are no doors,

there are no other passages. You do, however, see
script across the opposite side of the room that

is chiseled into the stonework itself in Elvish
script.

MARISHA: Oh, Elvish.

MATT: Oh sorry, this is not Elvish, Elvish was the
obelisk. What languages do you--

LIAM: Common, Elvish, and Abyssal.

MATT: What languages do you know?

SAM: Gnome and Common.

MATT: It is a language neither of you know.

TALIESIN: Can I take a look at it?

SAM: You can't see nothing.

LIAM: I walk up with my dagger and hold it
underneath.

MATT: Run it across?

TALIESIN: Celestial?

MATT: It is Celestial.

TALIESIN: Well, there you go.

MATT: Are you the only one that knows Celestial?

TALIESIN: I had not a lot of friends growing up,
this was a lot of quiet time.

MATT: (laughs) That is okay. All right, so.
Looking at this, it reads, and you read it out

loud, the translation. The thing about Celestial,
it's interesting, it's a beautiful-sounding

language that even the translation to Common is
built into rhyme. It says, "Knowledge dost billow,

"all realms are the shore. The sky a window, the
water a door."

MARISHA: Wait.

LAURA: Wait. Start at the beginning?

MATT: "Knowledge dost billow, all realms are the
shore. The sky a window, the water a door."

TRAVIS: Yep. So in this room, it's a circle,
what's the distance across the room?

MATT: It's about 30 feet across on a side.

TRAVIS: Oh, so it's not that big.

MATT: And it's a ten-foot pool. No, it's a pretty
tight space.

TRAVIS: And there's solid flooring and then the
pool in the middle.

MATT: Yeah, in the middle, so you move around. So
a ten-foot walkway around it.

LAURA: Can I get on the broom? And fly up above
the pool of water and look down into it?

MATT: Okay. Go ahead and make a perception check.

LAURA: 25.

MATT: 25. Looking down into it, you see no bottom.
You see the glow continues downward and it's

almost like there is a very soft, faint source of
light in there, but the water obscures it too much

to see a bottom. It doesn't disappear into
darkness, which leads you to believe that it's not

endless, but you can't make out any details of
where it would end or how far that is from where

you are. You do see what looks to be slow,
shifting movement of aquatic plant life that is

gathered on the edges about ten feet down and
further.

MARISHA: So Percy read this out loud, right?

TALIESIN: Yes, I read it out loud.

MARISHA: Would Keyleth know anything about this as
possibly being a portal to the realm of water? Can

I do like a check to see if this is something that
might be a--

MATT: Make an intelligence check.

MARISHA: Not my strong suit.

TALIESIN: Good, oh!

LAURA: Oh my gosh Keyleth, you're so smart!

MARISHA: I'm so smart. Just straight
intelligence?

MATT: Straight intelligence.

MARISHA: 15.

MATT: 15. There is talk of elements here, very
plainly in the translation. It's possible.

However, usually doorways to the planes have a
very prominent magical signature to them, one that

is especially, you are pretty sensitive to, being
an Ashari, and that is a large part of what your

people's charge is. You do not get the feeling
that this pool is a gateway to another plane, per

se, just a very deep pool.

LAURA: Keyleth! Use the thing to see magical
runes!

SAM: Oh yeah, yeah. The chunk, the hunk.

MARISHA: Okay, I pull out my Hunk of Quall. Hunk
of Quall.

MATT: Hold it up and concentrate for a moment.
Doesn't seem to spark, and there doesn't appear to

be a reaction.

LAURA: Really thought it was going to do
something, I really, really did.

TRAVIS: Can I take a single gold coin, make a
wish, and flick it into the wishing well.

LAURA: I watch it go down.

MATT: Drifts from side to side, drifts down,
glimmers occasionally, drifts, and then is out of sight.

LIAM: There's a fairly good chance we need to go
down through this. Grog and Keyleth? You're

probably the best suited for this, you because
your fucking chest is so big and you because you

can turn into water.

TRAVIS: I also have two vials of breathing
underwater.

LAURA: Hey, that's a good thing.

MARISHA: I also happened to pack Control Water in
my bag of tricks today.

TRAVIS: You did?

MARISHA: I did.

TRAVIS: Fricking awesome.

MARISHA: When we go underground there tends to be
water, so I tend to bring it.

LAURA: Should we control it, or--

MARISHA: Keyleth walks up and puts her hands in
the pool.

MATT: Okay.

MARISHA: Anything happen when I touch the water?

MATT: Your hand goes in the water. It is cold, it
is in line with most subterranean pools that

you've encountered. Not freezing, but very chilly.
Reacts like any other water that you've

encountered before. It's not particularly murky,
either.

MARISHA: I dive in.

MATT: Keyleth, (splash). You dive in, pulling
yourself down.

LIAM: Grog. Go with her.

TRAVIS: You got it.

MATT: Sinking down, and you can see the tunnel
around you, it goes from smoother stone to a

little rougher and as you descend you can see the
algae and various aquatic plant matter and life

that is gathered around, until eventually you go
down about 40 feet or so, your feet hit the

bottom, and you can see it ends behind you but
then before you there is a tunnel, there is a

continued walkway underwater forward.

TRAVIS: I come down behind her.

MATT: You feel the impact as Grog lands right
behind you. Let me see here. What's your

constitution modifier? Keyleth?

MARISHA: Not great. Two. Plus two.

MATT: Two? Okay. Yours is five, right? For the
constitution modifier?

TRAVIS: Oh, sorry, no, I'm being a dickhole. It is
five, yeah.

MATT: Yeah, so you can hold your breath for five
minutes.

SAM: Five minutes!

MARISHA: Is that however long your--

MATT: Yeah, one minute per constitution modifier.
For you it's two.

MARISHA: Interesting.

MATT: After you've landed here, you're about 30
seconds in, looking around, Grog's there.

MARISHA: How far does the tunnel look?

MATT: Make a perception check, with disadvantage
because of the water distortion.

TRAVIS: Can I look everywhere except the tunnel
with my darkvision?

MARISHA: Bad and bad. 16.

MATT: With disadvantage.

MARISHA: 16.

TRAVIS: Don't worry about it, it's four.

MATT: (laughs) It's not hard to see. The tunnel
continues, begins to curve upward about 60 to 80

feet ahead of you. It is choked with that heavy
algae slowly drifting there, but there is a path

you can see to swim through where it wouldn't
really stop or halt your progress.

But it curves upward.

MARISHA: You want to keep going?

MARISHA and TRAVIS: (underwater blubbing
conversation sounds)

MATT: You're halfway through your breath, by the
way. You're now at one minute.

TRAVIS: I'll swim forward. Just to where it starts
to curve up.

MATT: I'll have both you guys make athletics
checks.

TRAVIS: That sucks dick.

LAURA: At disadvantage.

TRAVIS: At a disadvantage?

MATT: No, not athletics.

MARISHA: 15.

TRAVIS: 12.

MATT: Oh, no, you do, because you have
exhaustion.

TRAVIS: Oh, that's right. 12.

MATT: 12. What?

MARISHA: 15.

MATT: 15. Okay. You guys aren't having a huge
issue, you get forward, you can move about half

your movement forward every six seconds or so, so
you manage to make your way up into the center of

where the plant matter begins to grow darker and
more apparent. Grog, you start making your way

through. I need you to go ahead and make a
dexterity save at disadvantage.

MARISHA: What? What the why? What the why?

SAM: Piranhas, that's why.

MATT: Dexterity at disadvantage because you're
swimming underwater, in which movement is much

harder as well.

LIAM: Ninja sharks.

TRAVIS: 11.

MATT: 11. All right.

MARISHA: Dolphins with lasers.

LAURA: It's going to be so bad.

MATT: You take eight points of psychic damage as
suddenly, out of the greenish plant matter, you

see these red tendrils, these red vines of algae
that begin reaching out towards you. One of them

brushes against your shoulder, and you feel this
surge of shock energy almost travel through your

nervous system to your head, and it's like you
have an instantly pounding headache and you feel

your muscles begin to tense up. Make a
constitution saving throw.

LAURA: Oh god!

TRAVIS: That's a one.

(gasping)

MATT: You feel your muscles lock up as paralysis
takes over. You watch as Grog suddenly tenses up,

and the air that's in his lungs escapes in a big
heave.

MARISHA: Upon seeing this, I reach forward and I
grab hold of him and I cast Control Water and

jettison the both of us out of there.

TRAVIS: If it's water.

LAURA: It's got to be water.

MARISHA: I kicked the camera, sorry.

MATT: So do you, you push yourself away, you jet?
Okay.

MARISHA: I take a jet, jetting us back out.
Waterslide!

MATT: So you pull him back using Control Water to
shove you guys. Yeah, the water's basically

pushing you forward, like an ice man waterslide,
and make your way to the other side. Grog, you,

that's the first round to get you to the bottom
there, your constitution modifier's five, you have

five rounds before you're officially drowning.

TRAVIS: Okay.

MATT: So she pulls you in, grabs you to the
bottom. You look up. Using Control Water again to

concentrate, this is going to take you two rounds
to get to the top because you're

carrying Grog's weight.

LAURA: Can I see them coming up?

MATT: You do see the form begin, Keyleth's face
begin rising to the surface. Eventually she breaks

through the water, carrying Grog, who's too heavy
for her, and then dips

right back down in the water.

MARISHA: Help!

TALIESIN: Pull Grog.

MATT: You grab and pull Grog out and onto the
edge, and he's locked in place, eyes wide.

MARISHA: Can I take the Control Water to see if I
can like waterbend it out of his lungs, if there's

any water in his lungs?

MATT: Yeah. As you concentrate, you pull this
single strain of water out of, it's the weirdest

sensation you've ever had, as the water is pumped
instantly from inside your lungs.

TRAVIS: It's like a reverse beer bong.

MATT: (laughs) Yeah, it is. And the water scatters
across the stonework on the side of the pool. It

takes about 30 seconds before your muscles come
back and all of a sudden you're--

TRAVIS: (coughing and choking)

LAURA: What the hell happened? What was down
there?

MARISHA: Really nasty plants. And I go over. I'm
pretty sure my Control Water

lasts for a minute, yeah?

MATT: Control Water lasts for up to ten minutes.
Concentration.

MARISHA: Dope. I'm going to go over, and can I
start clearing the water out of this tunnel?

MATT: Where would you want it to go?

MARISHA: Out?

LIAM: Up the stairs. Behind us is stairs up.

MATT: You can't make water disappear. You can part
it, you can do all kinds of things with it, the

water still has to go somewhere.

LIAM: Part it. An air tunnel for us.

MARISHA: That's what I was thinking, making like
an air tunnel.

MATT: Or you can redirect the flow. Up to you.
What do you want to do? The abilities you have to

choose from are part water, redirect flow,
whirlpool, but that's not really

in your realm, or flood.

MARISHA: And how big was this tunnel?

MATT: All the way across, I'd say it's about 25,
20 feet across.

MARISHA: That's a big tunnel. I'll part it.

MATT: Okay.

MARISHA: Yeah.

MATT: So you dive back down? When are you starting
to part it?

MARISHA: I yell to everybody else and I say,
there's a tunnel through to the other side. Let's

go. And I jump in and I'll sink and I'll start
parting the water behind me.

MATT: All right. So.

MARISHA: Or, let me see, let me sink to the bottom
and then I'll part the water in the tunnel

straight ahead.

MATT: Okay. Do you guys follow suit?

TALIESIN: I follow.

LAURA: Yeah.

SAM: Are we diving into water or parted water?

MATT: You're diving into water right now.

MARISHA: And before I jump in, I say, don't touch
the plants on the edge.

LIAM: So we're going through water to get to air.

MARISHA: Yeah, that's what I'm hoping for, yeah.

LAURA: Is it a fast drop, or do we float down with
that water?

MATT: You float down, because she didn't part the
water of the top of the tunnel, you guys float

down at a natural pace, eventually touching the
bottom of the subterranean tunnel, holding your

breath. Keyleth moves her hands this way and the
water in the center of the tunnel actually parts

almost like a bubble in front of you.

LAURA: Nice!

MATT: You step into that open space now and you
can breathe. You all catch yourself--

MARISHA: Let's go fast while I still have this
concentration.

MATT: There's still droplets dropping around you.
As you're holding it at bay and you push it off to

the side, elements, a lot of the water has been
forced out of the top for the time being wherever

you're going--

MARISHA: Sure, displacement physics.

MATT: Yeah. However, the planet life that was
currently drifting freely is all to the ground,

and is this giant mass of plant matter on the
ground that is soaking wet and there.

MARISHA: Okay. Don't touch the plants, let's go.

LAURA: Go where?

MARISHA: Forward.

LIAM: Is it covering like a rug all in front of
us?

MATT: I mean, there is plant matter all over the
entire surface. It's thicker on the edges, because

a lot of it dropped down on itself.

LIAM: So are we able to pick our way through?

MATT: Yeah, it looks like a bunch of wet fur on
the sides. You guys begin walking, what's the

marching order here? Who's going first?

TRAVIS: I'll go first because I'm at disadvantage
on everything, so.

MATT: Okay. Grog goes first.

LIAM: I'll go behind Grog.

MATT: Okay. Who's after that?

LAURA: I'll go next.

SAM: I'll take Pike and go after her.

TALIESIN: I'll go behind them.

MARISHA: Following up their rears.

MATT: And Keyleth's following up the rear. Okay.
Has Trinket stepped back into your necklace, by

the way?

LAURA: Yes yes yes.

MATT: Okay. Just making sure.

TRAVIS: Hold it up, show him.

LAURA: He's in my necklace.

MATT: Grog, as you step past, and you're stepping
with a squashing sound as your footfalls hit each

of the sections of the dark brown-greenish plant
matter. It's really soggy, and Keyleth, as you're

concentrating, it's a lot of water to part, and
you're basically creating this 20-foot tunnel. As

you begin stepping across, you can see the red
vines begin to pull their way out, but without the

water there, they can't support the weight of the
vine itself, so currently they're unable to really

shift in your direction. You can see them trying,
you can see the vines (slithering) in the matted

mass, but they can't actually work towards--

LAURA: Can't move quickly.

MARISHA: They're assholes, don't touch them.

MATT: So as you dart across, you guys each
individually make your way across the other side

of the tunnel where the Control Water spell ends.
You can see the curvature leading upward, there is

still that barrier of water that's shimmering
right there in front of you. You all eventually

make it past that big central patch, and as it
curves upward, you can look about 35 feet at a

diagonal that way, you can see the surface of
water that's where it breaks.

LAURA: Oh. Swim up.

MARISHA: Can I take the Control Water and jettison
us all up like I did with Grog?

MATT: Yeah.

MARISHA: Hold on!

MATT: So you guys all take a breath as the water
wall collapses behind you, rushes up, and like a

water jet all of you get jettisoned out and have
to catch yourself on your feet.

MARISHA: Three-point landing.

LAURA: I catch myself on the broom and I fly.

TRAVIS: I definitely roll. How does Scanlan land?

SAM: Not well.

MATT: (laughs) Scanlan's more like a waterslide,
he comes out the end and feet in the air. It's

fun, but--

SAM: Slip-and-slide?

MATT: Yeah! But you hit the sprinkler head you
didn't know was under there.

(groaning)

TRAVIS: The worst!

SAM: There's a rock.

TRAVIS: We all know what you're talking about. You
haven't lived.

MARISHA: Those things are death traps, man.
They're the best.

LAURA: And when they're not wet enough.

MATT: So you guys all emerge outside of this pool
now. You take a moment to look around as there is

no light source in this room either. Those with
darkvision, you look around and you see what

appears to be a smooth, marble stone floor, very
intricately carved, with four pillars surrounding

the exit of the pool that you guys came out of.
You can see on each of these pillars, facing

inward, or not inward, sorry, facing outward of
these pillars, what looks to be these stone lion

heads. They each face outward. The chamber is also
circular, but much larger, it's actually 60 feet

across, from the 30 feet of the first chamber you
came to.

LIAM: Right where we are, I'm going to take my
Flametongue dagger and go in a circle and detect

traps. Detect some traps.

MATT: Okay. Make an investigation check.

LIAM: 18.

MATT: 18, okay. As you glance around with the
dagger, and now that you have light as opposed to

the darkvision that was before, you can see now.
The room is a very deep blue cobalt marble, and

the edges of each of these intricately carved
pillars, where the base hits the rest of the

structure, and along the walls you can see what
looks like gold and platinum filigree and trim.

It's a very beautifully, very elegantly built
room. You look around the walls. They themselves

are smooth with, once again, no door, no exit,
however, you look around the outside of the pool

that you came out of, and there is a
three-foot-wide gold loop around it, almost like

there's a big circular gold plate that surrounds
the pool, and inside it is carved a language that

you can't understand. You recognize it again as
Celestial.

TALIESIN: Oh dear.

MARISHA: What does it say?

TALIESIN: Dagger again?

MATT: All right, this one translates to: "Betwixt
the chaos, our order reigns, the ones who made us,

"refined the planes. As ages die--"

MARISHA: Hang on. "The ones who made us--"

MATT: "Refined the planes. As ages die, their time
an ember, the four endure, the four remember."

SAM: Aren't there four dragons?

TRAVIS: That can't be what this is about.

SAM: Why not?

MARISHA: Because we killed one of them.

LAURA: It could be four sphinxes.

TALIESIN: There's four lion heads in the room.

MATT: As you look up as well, as you glance at
more of the scenery, and you put the dagger up,

right above where the pool is, there is a
beautiful circular mural, the size of the room

itself, 60 feet across from end to end.

LAURA: How high is the ceiling?

MATT: The ceiling is 40 feet tall.

LIAM: If it's in Celestial and it says, "those who
made us," I highly doubt that the dragons are the

ones that made the architects of this structure.

MARISHA: If you recall, there were also five
dragons and we killed one of them already.

LAURA: Yeah, it's four sphinxes.

SAM: Four somethings in the room.

MATT: Glancing up across the mural, this
beautifully painted image shows flames twisting

and writhing in an arced pattern that then twist
into broken rock and soil and earth and mountains

that then break once again, sinking into an angry
ocean, and that ocean then begins to rise into

clouds into the sky, those clouds then dissipating
and turning into raw flame

and continuing the loop.

MARISHA: It's the water cycle.

SAM: Elements.

MATT: In the center of this loop, there is a
single dark hole in the ceiling.

LAURA: I'm flying, so I'm up near it. Can I
investigate it?

MATT: Make an investigation check.

LIAM: Careful, please?

LAURA: I'm not poking my head into it, I want to
get a closer look.

TRAVIS: That's what she said last time.

MATT: Scanlan, make an intelligence check.

LAURA: Investigation or perception? You said
perception?

MATT: What are you looking for?

LAURA: I just want to get a closer look at the
circle.

MATT: Make it perception. I'll say sure, why not.

LAURA: 19?

MATT: Okay, glancing at the circle, I mean, it has
a similar small gold band around the outside of

it, but this mural is built around this central
hole. It's about three feet across, it's not very

big, and it goes straight up into darkness.

LAURA: It said in the previous room, "the sky is a
window." Does that pertain to this?

TALIESIN: It might.

MARISHA: It could. It said, "the water a door."

LAURA: Which we came through.

MARISHA: Wait, and the hole is right above the
water, correct?

MATT: Correct.

MARISHA: It lines up. It lines up.

TALIESIN: Vax, double-check the gold floor, I'm
not--

LAURA: Are there any runes on the gold around that
circle on the ceiling?

MATT: Looking around the gold itself, no, but
you're looking at the actual mural itself this

close up, there is a texture to the painting
itself, and you can see embedded within elements

of the actual brushwork and where the flames meet
the rock, you can see hidden lines. With what

appear to be very very faint runes.

LAURA: Is it the same language that was around
the--

MATT: It's a language you don't understand. This
is not a spoken language.

What languages do you know?

LAURA: Abyssal, Draconic, Elvish--

MATT: These are rooted in Draconic. Very ancient,
this is the basis of what most arcane runes are

created from, as Draconic is the base root of
arcane writing. None of them spell anything you

understand with your knowledge of Draconic,
however that is the base root of this writing, as

ancient as it is.

LIAM: Pike? Does this mean anything to you?

SAM: By the way, Matt, I rolled my second natural
one of the night for my intelligence check.

MATT: Okay. You have no idea what this is about,
yeah.

SAM: I'm trying to get water out of my ear.

MATT: Pike's looking up and says, "This is beyond
me, this is very old."

MARISHA: Does this harken back to anything that we
remember about the telling of the Spark, or the

Second Spark?

MATT: You know, I'm going to make a religion check
with her. Not bad. She goes, "Best I can gather,

"these represent the elemental chaos, and the
center is the prime, our world, that was crafted

"out of that chaos when the gods came, just like we
were told at the Platinum Sanctuary. That's what

"you told me you found there."

MARISHA: All of the elemental realms overlap,
which create our realm. Which is why there's

gateways.

TRAVIS: Can I walk over to one of the pillars?

MATT: Yeah.

TRAVIS: Is it covered with anything?

MATT: They're all the same, and they all have that
giant gold stone lion head facing outward from

each of the pillars.

TRAVIS: Is there writing or anything fancy on the
pillar?

MATT: Make an investigation check.

LAURA: I grab the Hunk of Quall and I float it up
to the ceiling.

MARISHA: I gave Vex the Hunk of Quall.

TRAVIS: Hey! 15 with a minus two.

MATT: Nothing really catches your attention.

TRAVIS: Can I knock on it?

MATT: Solid. Cobalt marble.

TALIESIN: The lion heads. Do they have open mouths
or closed mouths?

MATT: The mouths are closed. You take the Quall--

LAURA: I take the Hunk up to the ceiling.

MATT: All right. What are you doing with it?

LAURA: How did you make this work, Keyleth?

MARISHA: Just hold it out like you're searching
for a signal.

MATT: Okay, you hold it up, and you see the bauble
glows ever so faintly, and whenever you drift it

over the mural, all the runes that are within a
foot of it slightly glow as it passes over them,

almost like a blacklight. It reveals them ever so
faintly.

LAURA: Does that mean these are magic? I can't
remember what this thing does.

MARISHA: Yeah, it means that there's magical
essence, it finds magic.

TALIESIN: I'm going to take some of the water from
the pool, and I'm going to bring it to one of the

columns and dash it on the column and see what
happens.

MATT: Okay. You take the water--

TALIESIN: On the, yeah, the water column.

MATT: You throw it on the column that matches the
water overhead. You feel this slight grinding

shift of stone.

LAURA: Wind blows! Fire burns!

TALIESIN: Really? Really? We had to bring it
there? Really?

MATT: You glance around and the lion's mouth has
opened.

MARISHA: Good call, Percy!

SAM: Wait, what are the other elements? Fire,
air?

LAURA: Yeah, I go over to one of the other pillars
and blow on it, the one under the air part.

MATT: Same crumbling sound of stone and the mouth
of the lion is now open.

TRAVIS: Ooh, ooh, fire, fire!

LIAM: I use the Flametongue dagger.

MATT: As you brush it across the pillar, once
again, the lion mouth opens on the

outside of the pillar.

LAURA: How do we do earth?

SAM: She's an earth elemental, or she can do
earthy things.

MARISHA: Well, I Druidcraft some earth and start
wrapping it around the pillar.

MATT: Okay. You create this little burst of soil,
this little knob of wet mud and clay, and you

circle it, smear across the side of the pillar.
The fourth mouth opens. There's a low rumble.

Suddenly each mouth of the lion begins to pour a
constant cavalcade of sand. The pool immediately

fills up, you guys noticing, this room, as wide as
it is, across the way other holes have opened up

in the side and sand is pouring in.

LAURA: Oh shit. I fly up into the hole in the
ceiling--

TRAVIS: Oh! A fucking hourglass?

(yelling)

LAURA: I fly up into the hole. I drop the endless
rope down from the hole as I'm flying it up so

there's a rope in the middle of the room; so that
everybody can go for, I'm flying up--

SAM: If the sand fills up, we can ride the sand up
to the hole.

MATT: So you ride up through the top, you go up
about 60 feet to the very top before you get

there. You have to take a second to go ahead and
rummage and find the rope. The rope is on you at

all times?

LAURA: Yeah.

MATT: Not in the Bag of Holding?

LAURA: No, it's on my cloak. Rope of Infinite
Twine.

MATT: Right, it's a robe. It's--

TRAVIS: It's a robe, it's not a rope. It's from
the inside of a robe or jacket.

MATT: A pocket on the inside of the robe.

LAURA: Oh.

MATT: So. You would have to get that from Grog
first, it was probably in the Bag of Holding.

LAURA: Fuck! All right, fine, I fly back down--
Gimme gimme gimme the rope.

TRAVIS: I give it.

MATT: Okay, at this point the sand has now come up
to your knees, waist area, and you're having to

climb out and get on top.

LIAM: Scanlan, grab your horn, call out, say that
Osysa sent us.

LAURA: I tell him to hold on to one end as I fly
up.

LIAM: Don't you have a cone?

MATT: The weight of both of you across it,
especially with your weight, the broom (pff).

LAURA: I let go, the rope should be coming out of
the robe.

MATT: Right, okay. I thought you were trying to
lift him up with you.

LAURA: No no no, I'm trying to let the rope out as
I'm flying up.

MATT: Okay. You pull up and you come off the top
again into this chamber that leads into it. You

can see with what your vision is a tunnel that
leads ahead to a set of double metal doors.

LAURA: Is there anything to tie rope off onto?

MATT: No.

LAURA: What about the doors? Are there handles?

MATT: From what you can look over there, no. They
are solid metal.

LAURA: Shit.

LIAM: Scanlan, can I borrow your horn? Your cone?

SAM: Yes, I can yell.

MATT: At this point, about half the room is filled
now.

TALIESIN: Okay.

LIAM: I grab Scanlan's horn. Osysa sent us, can
you hear us?

MATT: You hear that voice echo up through.

MARISHA: Gather close next to me, who's close
nearby? I do a Wall of Stone as a pillar and

pillar us up towards the hole.

MATT: Okay.

MARISHA: Elevator time.

MATT: It is a three-foot-wide hole. You'll be able
to fit one person through there.

MARISHA: Can I at least rise us up to where we're
close and we can get there?

MATT: Okay, yeah, so.

MARISHA: Where we're up and out.

MATT: So you get up out of the sand, now you guys
have been climbing up best you can, but as the

nature of sand you're still pulling in, as it's
pouring in now, you see now, parts of the ceiling

are starting to open.

LAURA: Keyleth! Do you have the Immovable Rod?

MARISHA: I do have the Immovable Rod.

LAURA: I fly down and I grab the Immovable Rod.

MARISHA: Here, catch, yeah, take it!

MATT: Okay, you grab the rod. You fly up, you take
the rod and you set it in place there.

LAURA: Tie the rope onto it.

MATT: Tie the rope onto it. All right. At this
point now the sand's pushed up. You guys are on

the last ten feet before it hits the ceiling.

LAURA: Climb it, climb it.

TALIESIN: Climbing, climbing the rope, climbing
the rope.

MARISHA: I'm going to go ahead and I'm going to go
and turn into a bird.

LAURA: Can I fly back down and grab Scanlan?

SAM: I'm okay.

LAURA: Well I go down and I grab Pike then and I
go up on the broom.

MATT: Okay. Pike goes, "Thank you!"

You grab her and she holds onto the edge of
the broom and you guys make it up that way. No,

since the hole is just small enough where you
pretty much have to go through single-file, so

nobody else can climb while you're doing that. You
guys go through, who's coming up first?

MARISHA: I'm flying.

MATT: You fly up after them. Who's going up
first?

TALIESIN: I'll go up next.

MATT: Okay. Go ahead and make an athletics check.

TALIESIN: Athletics or acrobatics?

MATT: This would be athletics, because you're
climbing a rope, a tiny--

SAM: The hole, is it triangular?

MATT: No, it's circular.

TALIESIN: 19.

MATT: 19, okay. Making your way up. It's a long
pull.

TALIESIN: I'm going to Batman.

MATT: All right. Who's up next?

LIAM: I'd like to use acrobatics to ignore the
rope and use the sides of this little tunnel to do

that going up.

MATT: Okay, okay, go ahead and do that.

LIAM: That is 25.

MATT: 25, okay, that keeps you going.

So you guys get up a third of the way, who's
after you?

SAM: I guess I'm climbing the rope. There's a
rope, yes? Climbing that rope.

MATT: Yep. Make an athletics check.

SAM: Okay.

17.

MATT: 17, okay. You guys are all making it up, you
get about a third of the way up, I need the three

of you to make your checks again, as it is a very
tight space and it's a very, very heavy pull up.

You're just like--

LIAM: 25 again.

MATT: 25 again. Awesome.

SAM: 13.

TALIESIN: 23.

MATT: 23. You guys make it up two-thirds of the
pathway, now. You can see now the sand has reached

the bottom, and at this point, you guys who made
it up to the top, you look up as you notice part

of the stonework above goes (fwsh) and sand begins
to now fall directly on top of you guys, pushing

past you. I need you guys to make one more check,
with disadvantage because of the sand, because

that was what the time limit was going to do.

MARISHA: It's gone, it's gone!

MATT: As soon as the timer went out, that was when
the top one went boom, and capped off the top.

SAM: This is an athletics check?

MATT: This is athletics, yeah.

TRAVIS: No, not 27, 24.

MATT: 24. Right, this is you coming up from the
bottom. So you make it up a third of the way now.

What'd you roll with dis--?

SAM: 17.

MATT: 17 with disadvantage?

TALIESIN: 13.

LIAM: 25 acrobatics.

MATT: 25. You actually have to climb over Percy to
get past, because Percy's being held up from the

sand that is coming down. Grog, it's starting to
catch up to you. You, I need Vax and Scanlan, you

guys make it to the top and pull your weight out
of the sand that's now pouring

down in that tunnel.

SAM: The tunnel on top?

MATT: The top of the tunnel, yeah, you guys emerge
from it and you're now inside a chamber along

with Vex and Keyleth.

MARISHA: So the only people that are left are
Percy and Grog?

MATT: Percy and Grog.

SAM: Pike?

MATT: Pike was brought up by Vex.

TRAVIS: Second roll was 11, 19 total.

MATT: 19 total?

LIAM: I have a regular 50-foot rope and I'm tying
a loop and I'm going to throw it down towards Grog

and try to get it down so he can hold onto it and
help pull while he does what he's doing.

MARISHA: Can I cantrip a Gust against the sand to
try and blow some of it?

MATT: It's a lot of sand, you might be able to
help a little bit with your cantrip, it's more of

a puff of wind than a strong force, and it's a lot
of sand falling. It's not going to help

tremendously on this circumstance, unfortunately,
as a cantrip.

LAURA: Can I use Pike's shield and try to direct
it to where some of it isn't coming--?

MATT: Sure, go ahead and make a strength check.

LAURA: Oh, maybe Pike should do it, because she's
way stronger than me!

MATT: Okay. Pike's going to step forward.

LAURA: She's got 19 strength now!

SAM: Don't do this, Pike, don't do this.

MATT: "I have to do it."

She steps forward and puts her shield out.
All right. She manages to direct some of the flow,

which begins to spray onto the outside of the
room, begins to fill up one side, however that

does give a round of no disadvantage to Grog and
Percy. Roll again.

TRAVIS: Except I'm exhausted, right? So I have
disadvantage anyway.

MATT: Yes, you do.

TALIESIN: 17.

TRAVIS: 21.

MATT: You manage to make it up the rest of the
way. The rope, Percy comes out. Pull him up onto

the side. Pike, unfortunately, it's too much and
loses it. The sand comes rushing down on top of

you. What'd you roll?

TRAVIS: 21.

LIAM: I grab Grog by the beard and pull.

MATT: He's almost to the top, because you made one
check, that's your second check now. Need you to

make one more check now as the sand's pouring
down, it's now come up to you and it's starting to

grab the lower part of your legs, and you're
starting to feel yourself being buried.

LIAM: I'm pulling on his beard, can I cancel his
disadvantage?

MATT: The rope that came down-- Roll a perception
check, Grog. With disadvantage.

What did you roll?

TRAVIS: Perception is four, but I
rolled a 24 on my fourth--

MATT: With disadvantage?

TRAVIS and LAURA: Yeah.

MATT: Nice! So you don't even see the rope that
Vax dropped. It keeps in the sand. But you,

grabbing onto the one that's already up there, you
hand-over-hand pull up. You guys watch as the sand

eventually stops, and fills the entirety of the
tunnel and stops. And then (thud, slam) Grog pulls

himself outside, manages to brush the sand off,
it's all in his beard.

MARISHA: Grog!

TRAVIS: How about a short rest?

(laughter)

TRAVIS: Anyone feel like a nap? Fucking hell.

LIAM: I start shaking out his beard and getting
all the crap out.

TRAVIS: Yeah, thank you.

LIAM: And it's like, fwang!

MARISHA: I cantrip Gust, brush him off.

LAURA: I thought we were doing what we were
supposed to do down there.

SAM: I think we did do what we were supposed to
do.

LAURA: Jeez, it would've been better if we
would've just gone up the hole.

MARISHA: Yeah.

TRAVIS: Fuck, I've never rolled that well in my
life.

MATT: That was the time to do it, man. So you guys
now see there is a long stone brick hallway before

you. It's solid behind you, with a little bit of
sand that's now coasted from the corner after Pike

had diverted it briefly. Beyond the way, about 30
feet ahead of you, you see two metallic doors that

are closed.

LIAM: Traps, I'm looking for traps.

MATT: Investigation check.

LIAM: Yeah, that's good. That is a 27.

MATT: You take a moment, scanning the floor as you
approach, coming up to the actual doors, you take

a minute to look them over. They are not locked,
nor are they trapped.

MARISHA: I never trust that. That's never been
good.

LIAM: I'm going stealth.

MATT: Okay.

LIAM: 30 for stealth.

MARISHA: What did that riddle say? Something about
a name. A name must be earned?

SAM: We're in a room with two doors? Is that it?

MATT: Correct, a hallway with two doors.

LAURA: A name is earned. Yes.

MARISHA: So maybe this is us earning our name.

LAURA: Or his name.

TRAVIS: Wait, so we went through water, we went
through sand.

LAURA: Now there's fire.

MARISHA: And wind.

SAM: We haven't gone through fire or wind yet.

LAURA: That was really smart, Grog.

LIAM: Deathwalker's Ward, I'll have resistance to
fire.

MATT: Okay, that would take a short rest to go
ahead and set that.

TRAVIS: I'm okay with that.

LIAM: Let's sit and let Grog catch a breath, shall
we?

MATT: Okay. You taking a short rest or no? Up to
you.

TRAVIS: Yeah, I'll take it.

LAURA: Does it cure exhaustion if he takes a short
rest?

MATT: No, long rest cures exhaustion.

TRAVIS: Oh, fuck that shit, I'm rolling through.

MATT: (laughs) All right, you guys take a short
rest, you take a breather here, if you need to use

any hit dice, now you can. All right, so. Finish
the short rest, you've reset your armor to fire

resistance.

MARISHA: Is there any runes or anything around in
this room that look like they would indicate--

MATT: In the short rest, in the time you've taken,
while there were no traps in the door, you guys

did notice that there is a very, very faint symbol
in the metal. Very large, so at first it just

seemed like it was part of the door's design, but
as you step back and rest, you glance over at the

door, Keyleth, looking at it from this distance,
you can see the symbol--

TALIESIN: Ooh, he's got paper.

MATT: --like this. This is the symbol of Ioun.
This is the ancient original symbol of Ioun. This

is what is a relief in each of the doors, ever so
faintly, where only at a distance would you be

able to really see it.

SAM: Is it the exact same in both doors?

MATT: Yes.

SAM: Not a mirror image, not one blue one green?

MATT: No, it is the exact same.

SAM: Okay. Should we open a door?

MARISHA: Well, do you want to bust out those Ioun
stones you have?

SAM: Maybe there's a clue in here.

MARISHA: You also have your Ioun stones.

SAM: Yeah, but what's that going to do?

TRAVIS: In the walls and in the floors and in the
ceiling, is it just the same marble and stone, are

there any porous openings or--?

MATT: Make a perception check.

LAURA: What was that second line? "Knowledge dost
billow--"

SAM: "All realms are the shore. The sky is a
window, the water a door."

TRAVIS: 16.

MATT: Okay. Looking about, the stonework is pretty
consistent here. It's old, but unlike the

weathered entrance, a lot of this has not seen the
elements since it's fairly buried, and even at its

seemingly ancient time that it's been here, it
doesn't appear to be worn, looks fairly fresh. You

don't see any weaknesses, you don't see missing
stones.

TRAVIS: It's stone, though, right?

MATT: It is stone, yes.

TRAVIS: Like marble, or?

MATT: No, actually, this is more old, classic
granite or other deep-earth stones that are used

for various forms of construction. Doesn't have
any special properties that you can recognize.

TALIESIN: Well, if no one else is going to, I
think it'll be funny.

LIAM: Take 20 paces back.

SAM: And do what?

LIAM: And wait for me to open the door and look
in.

TALIESIN: Well, why don't I open the door and look
in?

LIAM: All right. I'm a little better at being
invisible, but go for it.

SAM: Which door?

TALIESIN: Both of them.

MATT: Both doors (creak) open. You look into what
appears to be a, from what you can see, because

there is a very, very faint bit of light emanating
from his dagger, but beyond that it is

pitch darkness. Percy is the one who cannot see.

TRAVIS: What do you see, Percy?

TALIESIN: I see a door that I have conquered.

(laughter)

TRAVIS: That was good.

LIAM: It was great. Do I need to make another
stealth check at this point?

MATT: Nah, it maintains.

LIAM: All right, so I'm going to--

Just stay back, there's no point in all of
us getting with something. And I move 20 feet

ahead of everybody.

MATT: You move 20 feet ahead. You enter the room
and you can see this chamber is square in size,

but it is divided, it seems to be in three halls.
There's a path to the right, a path to the left,

and a path ahead of you. You can't quite see all
the way past, the hallway continues to the very

edge of your visual range once you enter the
chamber. However, what you can see is to the right

and left of you parts of the wall have collapsed,
like there's piles of rubbles and stone and earth.

Make a perception check at this point.

LAURA: I'm peeking through the door at this
point.

MATT: Okay, she does as well.

LIAM: Going to use my second Luck today because I
rolled a one. That's better.

Perception, you said? 22.

MATT: Looking to the edge of the two pathways you
can see, there appears to be a little bit of a

shimmer or bit of movement, like light silk,
almost like threads shifting, entwined, it looks

almost like a large, very, very faint web that is
draped over one wall on the right and matching on

the left side.

LIAM: Does it remind me of anything I've seen in
my dreams?

MATT: I mean, other than the idea of a glimmering
thread, maybe, but it isn't glowing, it's not

emanating light, and it's very thin, very wispy.
And there are a few of them that you can see

before the rest of your perspective on the two
walls that break it into three passageways.

LIAM: I don't hear any eight-legged friends
around?

MATT: You don't see any currently at this
position. Ahead of you, in the central chamber,

you do see what looks to be a small pit, like a
divot. Almost like a cauldron, about ten feet

across. Similar in size and circular structure as
the first water pool you guys dove into, except

for it comes to a convex end with nothing visible
in it. There's like stones built around the

outside of it.

LIAM: I could be grasping at straws, but I'm
getting a bit of an arachnid vibe in here. I'm not

sure. There's three passages, there's webbing of
some kind to the left and to the right, and some

sort of divot or bowl on the ground. I think you
can all come in. Quietly.

LAURA: I walk up next to him. Oh yeah, I see what
you're talking about. Yeah.

MARISHA: Upon hearing this, Keyleth drops to her
knees and does a Locate Creature.

Do I sense any spiders?

MATT: You actually do not sense any spiders.

MARISHA: I think we're good on spiders.

TALIESIN: This thread is silk, isn't it? It's
actual material. I'm not going to touch it.

Conscious of the creation of air currents, I'm
going to gingerly put on my mask so that my breath

does not move things, and examine.

MATT: Okay. Make an investigation check.

LAURA: Smart. While he's doing that, I want to use
Primeval Awareness to sense celestials.

MATT: And that is one of the entities that you can
check with that? Okay. What'd you roll, Taliesin?

TALIESIN: I rolled a two. So my investigation is
five. Which is how old I'm turning.

(laughter)

MATT: It is a thread and there are multiple-- as
you get closer, you can see there are many threads

that are partway through this 15, 20-foot wide
hallway on the far right that you've gone to and

inspected. This network of threads appear to be
attaching at the halfway point and then draped

against the wall, what looks like a spiderweb made
of this thread all converges in the center. That's

the best you can make of it. You do not sense any
celestials.

TRAVIS: The hell's a celestial?

MATT: But do mark off your spell slot for that
use.

LAURA: That's not a spell slot, it's just my-- Oh!
Expend one ranger spell slot! I have never, ever

done that.

MATT: I assumed you were keeping track of that.

LAURA: I have never even looked at that bold--

MATT: Well, going forward--

TRAVIS: It is in bold print.

LAURA: Wow. I am sorry about that, Matt.

MATT: That's okay.

SAM: Is there any way to cross the room without
touching the web?

MATT: Yeah. Essentially, it's a 15, 20-foot wide
thing, the web only starts about partway and

encompasses the side of it.

MARISHA: And is there anything behind the webs?
Just rubble?

MATT: Behind the webs, the hallway continues and
then ends and then continues right. It's almost

like it's a square room that has walls here that
split it into three different passages and they

all converge again on the opposite side.

LAURA: Can we see all the way to the end?

MATT: Make a perception check.

TALIESIN: It's very mini-golf.

LAURA: 16.

MATT: 16? You notice at the end of the two
hallways on the sides, beyond the spiderweb in the

corner, there are two small five, six-foot-wide
pools of water similar to the ones you dove into

that are lined with stones and a little bit of
gold trim similar to what you guys saw in the

previous room.

LAURA: Those doorways?

MATT: So you have the rubble's on the side, you
have the spiderwebs, you have the pools at the end

there, and you have the empty cauldron in the
center piece, but you cannot see, unless you move

further forward, you cannot see beyond where those
hallways converge on the opposite side.

TRAVIS: Is it just me, or does that one in the
middle look like a fire pit?

MARISHA: I agree. I think this looks like a
convergence-of-the-elements type of a room.

TRAVIS: We have some boar in the frozen bag.

SAM: You want to start cooking here?

MARISHA: I can light a fire in that pit.

LAURA: Is it far away? You can set my arrow on
fire and send it down.

MATT: Nah. It's 25 feet from the doors you guys
entered in

LAURA: Oh. Just don't want to walk down there.

TRAVIS: The last time we did that, shit went
down.

LAURA: Let's get in the doorway and then if
something happens we shut the doors.

TRAVIS: Well, can we walk over to the cauldron
first and see what's above it?

LAURA: If you want to walk in.

MATT: Vax. Okay, as you walk up, make a perception
check.

LIAM: 23.

MATT: As they're having this conversation, looking
about and floating back, I know your passive as

well, but even mid-conversation with him, as you
kept an eye out, you see too that to the front of

each of these walls that bisects the room, what
you thought was just a wall, now as you've had

time to study it in quiet as everybody else has
been talking during these experiments-- Scanlan,

you probably would've noticed this too-- the wall
is, the separator's actually a giant obelisk on

each side, just like the one that you saw in the
Frostweald on the way in that the basilisks were

around. You see they're much newer, they're not as
weathered by the ages, and they're these two

markers with the symbol of Ioun carved into them.

LIAM: Shorthalt, come here.

SAM: Oi? Oi, yes.

LIAM: Look at this thing. Look there and there.
These are like the--

SAM: It's like the one that we saw before.

LIAM: Yeah, do you still have the doohickus?

SAM: Of course I have my doohickus.

LIAM: Do you want us to shove it in the hole?

SAM: You realize that I was born to shove things
in holes.

LIAM: That's why I called you over, man.

SAM: All right, so which one?

LIAM: Eenie, meenie, miney, mo. Catch a druid by
the toe. If she hollers, let her go, eenie,

meenie, miney--

MARISHA: You know, we've always found that very
offensive. I just want to say that.

SAM: I'll choose the right one and I'll stick my
Ioun stone in it.

MATT: Okay, looking at the base of it, you see
there is the same triangular symbol there. You

place the Ioun stone into the recess in the
obelisk. As you do, it glows faintly, the obelisk

itself tends to give off the same teal,
greenish-blue glow, the other one also does the

same. At which point the darkness across the room
is immediately dissipated as two previously unseen

braziers across the way burst into flame, lighting
the opposite side of the room. You can see what

looks to be a series of heavy steps that lead up
to a higher platform on the opposite side of the

room. You can see two pillars at the edge on the
very top of this raised platform

that meet the ceiling.

SAM: Well, let's go up there and check it out.

LAURA: Oh my gosh.

TRAVIS: I like it. You want a hand?

LIAM: I push Scanlan a bit up ahead of me.

MARISHA: So this is going over the firepit, past
the wispy--

MATT: Yeah, there's all the stuff on the sides and
the central room has that pit.

LAURA: Hold your breath as you pass the wispy
wisps, I don't trust them.

LIAM: Get that silver tongue of yours ready, all
right?

SAM: I don't think anything's going to want to
talk to us down here.

TRAVIS: Can we look at the ground for (laughs) for
traps as we're walking?

Any squares that might move?

MATT: Make an investigation check.

TRAVIS: Yup. Nine.

MATT: Nothing catches your attention.

TRAVIS: No, we're good.

LIAM: Would you like me to do that?

MATT: Are you guys all moving in the different
ways, the same way? Which way are you taking?

SAM: If we go to the right or the left, we have to
cross these webs? Or no?

MATT: You can move around the web on that, it only
covers half the path, you still have about seven

to ten feet of clearance between where the web
starts and the wall.

LAURA: Just open with a brazier at the end.

MATT: Mm-hmm.

SAM: Why don't we each take a direction?

MARISHA: Yeah, I'll take the left.

LAURA: I'll take the middle.

TALIESIN: I'll take the right.

MATT: Okay. You guys all quietly move forward,
stepping through these passages, stepping around,

you can see, like I said, the crumbled walls in
the far corner, you can see the webbing there,

there are the small pools at the far end corners
before they converge again into the central

chamber where that giant platform is.

TALIESIN: I have my gun in my hand, by the way.
And my mask on.

SAM: Wait, I could just bamf over to the other
side. Should I just do that?

LAURA: Maybe you should do that.

MATT: You guys are partway across now. Are you
stopping?

MARISHA: No.

TALIESIN: I'm going to continue not disturbing the
air as best I can.

MARISHA: Yeah, we're moving very slowly, not
disturbing the air.

MATT: Okay, you guys keep walking carefully.
Scanlan, are you doing anything?

SAM: Yeah, I'll Dimension Door to the platform on
the other side.

MATT: Okay. You appear on the opposite side and
you look around. What you didn't see from the

shadow that was being cast past the braziers, to
the right of you, Scanlan, you see a large form

that is there, as a pile, a crumpled pile on the
top of this platform. What catches your eyes, and

you guys see this too as you begin to walk up as
Scanlan appears and glances over, as you get

closer you can see there is what looks to be a
cold, blue marble that is right there, and you see

it being turned and held by what looks to be a
very faintly lit giant paw. You can see two eyes

that glance up, and glance over at Scanlan amongst
the shadows, the same color as that blue marble.

As it glances at Scanlan, and it is massive in
comparison to your tiny gnomish frame, the marble

is then tucked deep into what looks like hair of
some kind before it disappears, the eyes still

glowing the blue color. Suddenly the form begins
to move as two giant arms (impacts), and a voice comes

billowing out of this entity. "I have watched you
come." The creature now stands on all fours. A

good 15, 20 feet taller than you, Scanlan. A body
similar and lionlike to Osysa's, only thicker and

rippling with muscle beneath the fur. The face is
masculine and human-like, cheeks adorned with

ceremonial marks, head wreathed in a thick mane of
red-brown hair. Two enormous feathered wings

stretch out from its back, with a giant whoosh, a
whoosh of wind that tends to cause the braziers to

shift in place. And it looks at you for a second,
expectantly, then to the rest of the others.

SAM: Hello. Osysa sent us.

MATT: It mounts itself there, turns so it's facing
both you and the rest of you as you all approach.

"You, you seek power, glory, retribution. I know
your quarry, and I know your goal. She has told

"me. I can show you. But all great knowledge should
not be given. You must be proven. It must be

"earned. It must be EARNED." And as his voice
roars, the room echoes and you can see wind begin

to whip all around you.

Glancing over your shoulder, you guys can see now
the empty pit in the center of the hall behind you

is now whipping into a whirlwind and what appears
to be a small centralized cyclone that's now

rising up, meeting the ceiling, staying stationary
in place, arcing there. The braziers flame up even

brighter now, the flames, you can feel the heat
even from your distance at this point. You can see

now the sphinx is baring its gleaming white teeth
there at the top. "What. Is. My. Name?"

SAM: Fuck.

MATT: Roll initiative.

MARISHA: We have no fucking clue!

LAURA: Oh my god!

TALIESIN: Okay, that just happened.

LAURA: His name, what is his name?

TALIESIN: I'm back, baby.

MARISHA: The golden snitch lives!

MATT: All righty.

MARISHA: I have the worst initiative rolls all the
time except for earlier today.

MATT: All righty. So. Initiative roll. Ooh. Okay.
All righty. So. 25 to 20.

LIAM: 24.

TALIESIN: 30.

MATT: (laughs) Damn.

LAURA: Jeez Louise.

MATT: All right.

LAURA: Any ideas?

TALIESIN: Very, I, yes? Maybe? I don't know?

MATT: 20 to 15?

LAURA: 19.

MATT: 19.

SAM: 17.

MATT: All right.

LAURA: That map is awesome.

TRAVIS: All the elements are there.

LIAM: Look at the fire. (laughs)

MATT: Oh yeah, we got flickering braziers, guys.

SAM: Whoa, that's lit, it's lit up! How did you do
that?

MATT: Dwarven Forge has cool stuff. Thank you
guys.

TRAVIS: Fucking Dwarven Forge, man.

MATT: All right, so that brings us to 15 to ten?

TRAVIS: 14.

MATT: Grog. Anyone else?

MARISHA: Seven.

MATT: Oh, and Pike is actually before Grog. All
right. Percy, you're up first.

SAM: He hasn't attacked us.

MARISHA: What is his name, Percy?

SAM: Atreyu.

TALIESIN: I hate you. I'm going to pull back to
the water pit to my right. Oh, to my left, sorry.

I'm going to pull back to that water pit. I'm
going to examine it.

MATT: Make an investigation check.

TALIESIN: 21.

MATT: 21. As you rush over, you look down into the
pool. The surface itself is disturbed by the wind

that's blowing in this chamber. However, looking
into it, below the surface you don't see-- it's

darkness, you don't see a continuation, you don't
see anything behind it.

The water doesn't seem natural.

TALIESIN: Okay. I'm going to scoop some of the
water with my mask, pull the mask off, scoop

water, and try and toss it at the flame that's
right next to me. That's my move.

MATT: Okay. You put the mask in and your hand
moves into it. Your hand gets extremely cold

suddenly. You don't see it beneath the surface; it
almost vanishes below the water. It's really

unsettling. You pull it up and the water is there
in your mask. You throw it and the water, it

evaporates and the flames flicker slightly, but
they's too strong and it doesn't seem to have much

of an effect on the brazier.

TALIESIN: Fascinating. All right. That's my move.

MATT: Yep. That's your move and your action. All
right, that ends Percy's turn. Vax, you're up.

LIAM: How are we supposed to know your name? Is it
Osyso?

MATT: Teeth are bared and it's sitting there
looking at all of you, waiting.

LIAM: I'm going to click my Boots of Haste. Can I
use a bonus action to hide and then hold?

Any stuff?

MATT: You could, yeah, you can move and then hold
your action to a trigger point if you want to.

LIAM: Where am I in there?

MATT: You're right here.

LIAM: So I'm going to hide. I'm going to move
backward around the corner and hide.

MATT: Around this way?

LIAM: Yeah.

MATT: Okay, you can move there. Go ahead and roll
for hide.

LIAM: Okay. 25.

MATT: Okay.

LIAM: And I'm going to hold for the moment he
attacks any of my friends.

MATT: Okay, got you. All right, at the end of your
turn, the entire-- the wind that's blowing, there's

grains of sand that are picked up into it,
and you guys feel like there's something out of

place, this whole area, like this sudden drift.
You feel like the air in your lungs gets

butterflies for a second and something, even
though this place is stationary, it's almost like

the whole place shifts. I need everybody to make a
constitution saving throw.

LIAM: Shit.

TRAVIS: Fuck.

TALIESIN: Damn, I'm back.

MARISHA: Nice.

TALIESIN: 26.

SAM: Four.

MARISHA: Saving throw, correct?

MATT: Yes, constitution saving throw.

MARISHA: 23. 22.

LIAM: 17.

TRAVIS: With disadvantage, 13.

MATT: Okay. While most of you guys manage to
withstand it, Scanlan and Grog and Vex, the wind

feels like it's knocked out of you, and like you
were suddenly stretched thin and you can't

understand it. You glance-- right now, it's hard to
really tell. Scanlan lurches forward for a second.

Grog and Vex, you're right next to each other, you
both glance at each other and you can see, it's

like Grog's skin has aged suddenly. His-- around
his eyes it's grown a little more sunken, his

muscles have sagged slightly. He looks, not
ancient by any means, but it looks like he's seen

about another 15 to 20 years of travels.

TALIESIN: Oh shit.

TRAVIS: What does that mean?

SAM: Me too?

MATT: You also have, although due to your gnome
lineage it has less of an effect, and no one's

noticed it at this distance, but if anyone gets a
quick glance, you'll see a few grey hairs starting

to sprout on the side of Scanlan's head.

SAM: I get rid of those.

MATT: All right. Vex, you're up.

LAURA: Oh. Do I feel old?

MATT: You feel like you've been pulled through
something, but it doesn't have a mighty effect,

although, Grog, glancing at Vex you can see there
is definitely a little bit more of a weathered

look to her, crow's nests forming, deep-seated
frown lines.

LAURA: Oh, jeez. I shout out-- I run towards the
other water portal.

MATT: Okay.

LAURA: And I shout out, Pike, do you know the
names of the four ancient gods? Is your name four?

That's stupid.

MATT: There doesn't seem to be a reaction. Pike
goes, "No, I mean, the gods that were at the

"beginning, there's--"

LAURA: Yeah?

MATT: "There was Pelor and Melora and, I mean,
they're the ones who cast away the elements, the

"chaos that this realm was first. I don't know!"
And she seems-- she's bungled and unable to really

formulate what you're asking.

LAURA: I wouldn't have any religion, anything to
base that off of?

MATT: Make a religion check if you want to.

LAURA: Wow. Wow. Two! That's four ones in a
night.

MATT: Wow. Wow. It's the reverse Percy tonight.

LAURA: I've been cursed.

MATT: You try and think back to the conversation
you had with Highbearer Vord in

the Platinum Sanctuary, and your mind's a blank.
You can't recall any of that conversation.

LAURA: I have an advantage on anything having to
do with dragons.

MATT: It has nothing to do with dragons.

LAURA: Well, I was just checking.

MATT: This is the creation myth of all of
existence. However, you still have your action if

you want to do something. You're by the pool, it's
right to your right, and there's

this sphinx now rearing--

LAURA: I saw Percy dip his hand into the water, so
I do the same thing to see what it does.

MATT: You what? You put your--

LAURA: I put my hand in the water.

MATT: You dip your hand in the water. The hand,
once it breaks the surface, it vanishes into

darkness below the water. You don't even see,
there's no visual on it.

LAURA: Does it hurt?

MATT: No, it doesn't hurt, it's cold, it's very
cold.

LAURA: Pull it back out.

MATT: Pull it back out. Your hand is wet and it
drips and you shake it free.

LAURA: Can I use a bonus action to try to hide? Is
there anywhere to hide? Maybe against a wall or

something?

MATT: You move one, two, three, four, five, six.
You're not going to be able to get completely out

of sight. (laughs) Unless you want to jump in the
water.

TALIESIN: So there's a whirlwind in the center of
the room, there's two piles of rocks, there's two

vats of water, there's two torches, and then
there's two spiderwebs.

MATT: Correct.

TALIESIN: And the spiderwebs are covering the
walls.

MATT: Yeah. All right, so that ends Vex's turn.
Scanlan, you're up.

SAM: I will face the sphinx and say: is your name
Ioun?

MATT: The sphinx is still there growling at you.
"She is beyond me... What is my name, little

"scrumptious one?"

TRAVIS: Hit him!

TALIESIN: Do you have your earpiece in, by the
way?

SAM: Sure, we all do.

TALIESIN: Okay. Good to know.

SAM: I mean, I'm not going to attack this thing if
it hasn't attacked me yet, so I'm going to, eee.

TRAVIS: There's spiderwebs, there's stones,
there's fire, there's water--

TALIESIN: Working on it!

LAURA: I feel like we're so stupid, we should know
this. "The four endure, the four remember."

SAM: Can I hold my attack until a trigger?

MATT: You can if you want to, yeah.

SAM: Or hold my action until a trigger?

MATT: Yeah, what do you want to hold it for?

SAM: If he makes a move towards me physically.

MATT: Okay.

Remember, you guys who are holding your
action, you can interrupt and release at anything

if it doesn't happen, be aware of that. All
right, so it now goes to the sphinx's turn.

TRAVIS: Okay, this should be fun. We're all
standing around with our thumbs up our asses.

LIAM: Yup.

MATT: The sphinx takes a step forward to the edge
of the stairway and (roars) gives out this

earth-shattering roar that shakes-- a couple of
stones and dust that are loosened from the ceiling

falls down. I need everybody to make a wisdom
saving throw.

SAM: Is this magic?

MATT: Yes, it is.

LIAM: Is it charm, by any chance?

MATT: It's not a spell, it is a magical effect.

SAM: Do I get advantage on that?

MATT: What do you get advantage from?

SAM: Advantage versus magic on saves.

MATT: From being a gnome?

SAM: It says, Gnome Cunning, advantage on wisdom,
character, intelligence, magic saves. That's what

I wrote down, anyway.

MATT: Let me double-check here just to be sure.

SAM: It doesn't really matter, I rolled shit on
both, so it's okay. Don't bother.

MATT: (laughs) Okay. Against magic, so yeah, you
would have advantage.

LIAM: And does it have anything to do with charm
or sleep?

MATT: Nope.

LIAM: Nope, okay. 17.

MATT: 17.

SAM: Seven.

TALIESIN: 19.

MARISHA: 23.

LAURA: 24.

TRAVIS: 11. Disadvantage.

TALIESIN: (laughs) You picked the wrong day to
stop sniffing glue.

TRAVIS: What the fuck? (laughs) I know. Paint
chips.

TALIESIN: You made a bad call.

TRAVIS: I made a bad call.

MATT: Grog. Vex, what was it you rolled, again?

LAURA: 24.

MATT: 24. And you rolled?

LIAM: 17.

MATT: 17. That's right. All right, so. As the roar
pierces through the hallway, most of you guys

steel yourself. Grog, Scanlan, Pike, and Vax, you
feel the sudden reality of how fearful and

dangerous this creature is. You stepped into the
lair of an ancient, powerful entity and you feel

like your very life is at stake. You guys are
frightened for one minute.

SAM: Okay.

MATT: Frightened means you have disadvantage on
ability checks and attack rolls while you can see

it, and you cannot willingly move closer to the
creature. So you have to either move adjacent,

like same distance from it, or away. You can make
a saving throw every turn to try and resist it. It

is now going to stay right where it is. That
brings it to Pike's turn. Pike doesn't quite know

how to deal with this whole circumstance. She is
going to cast--

TALIESIN: Text Ashley.

TRAVIS: There's also the obelisks. We got to go
start touching the other shit.

LAURA: Obelisks were in Elvish.

MARISHA: Issylra is a continent, right?

TRAVIS: It was all written in what, in--?

MATT: Pike is going to reach forward to you, Grog.
Take a step this way. Pike's going to reach

forward and cast Freedom of Movement on you. At
fourth level.

TRAVIS: Oh. I was going to rage and shake it,
but--

MATT: So for the next hour, you cannot be
paralyzed or restrained, you can't have your speed

reduced via magical effects. You're still feared,
but--

TRAVIS: I can shake that with a rage.

MATT: You can shake that with a rage, yes. But
yeah, for the next hour.

It's not concentration, either.

TRAVIS: Thank you, Pike.

MATT: She says, "Go get him, Grog."

TRAVIS: You got it, buddy!

MATT: All right. That ends Pike's turn. Grog,
you're up.

TRAVIS: I might as well do what Pike says. I'm
going to bum-rush the sphinx.

MATT: Straight-up?

TRAVIS: Yup.

MATT: All right. You rush up the stairs.

TALIESIN: Oh god.

MATT: With a precariousness of-- we'll say you rush
up here for the sake of positioning.

TRAVIS: Sure. Two strikes, straight-up.

SAM: Just going to hit it?

TRAVIS: (laughs) Yeah. I'm not smart, this is all
I do. 23?

MATT: 23? That hits.

TRAVIS: His face is awful. Should I roll damage or
roll both attacks first?

MATT: It's all against him, roll attacks. You're
not going to kill it in one hit.

TRAVIS: No, that's true.

SAM: What if it's a nine-point hit point?

TRAVIS: 24 on the first one.

MATT: 24 damage, all righty.

TRAVIS: Second attack. Holy shit, that's a 28.

MATT: Nice, that hits.

TRAVIS: Something's going to happen to me and it's
going to be bad. Six. 11. 23.

MATT: Okay. Makes its first constitution saving
throw. Fails its second. So you steal another

strength point and the sphinx's strength goes down
to that.

TRAVIS: So I'm at 25 now.

LAURA: Down to 79 strength.

MATT: You're at 25 now. Okay.

TRAVIS: And I don't go up again until 26. Right?
On the evens.

MATT: Right. But 25 is the max for this sword. It
says on the weapon, it should be under ability.

TRAVIS: Oh, you're right, yeah.

MATT: All right. So. You run up and swing two
heavy swings after going into a rage to resist the

fear effect. You grin and bear it, go over and
swing twice, hacking into the side of it. Its hide

is very strong and there's almost like this weird
resistance on the outside of its body, like its

very force of existence and personality is keeping
the blade from doing as much damage as it should,

but you still strike true, slamming into it twice.
You pull the strength from it. As you do, a voice

in your head goes, "Yesss."

TALIESIN: Oh my god.

MATT: At this point, as you look at the blade, the
blade now begins to emanate a shadow aura stronger

than previously that begins to also form around
your upper shoulders, drifting. The blade suddenly

extends another foot, the edges of it that were
smooth project with a jagged, thorny outside. The

blade itself now is longer, thicker, and far more
dangerous-looking than it was before. Until your

next short rest, all attacks with the sword do an
additional 2d6 necrotic damage.

ALL: Whoa!

TRAVIS: (laughs) Super Saiyan, motherfucker! 2d6
necrotic damage? Okay. And I'll stay there.

MATT: Okay.

TRAVIS: And await my punishment.

MATT: All right. At the end of your turn, the
sphinx is going to use its

three legendary actions.

LIAM: Three legendary actions?

MATT: Is going to use three of them to cast a
spell out of order. It's going to go ahead and

call down a Flame Strike.

LAURA: We're all going to die!

MATT: Onto the twins.

LAURA: Why?!

LIAM: Can I attack him now, while he's casting,
because I held my turn?

MATT: You can, actually, yes.

LIAM: Okay, so I'm hidden and Grog's next to him,
which would normally put me at advantage, but he's

got me afraid, which puts me at disadvantage,
which means it cancels out and it's one straight

roll, right? On the attacks?

MATT: Correct.

LIAM: Okay. Good. So I'm going to throw-- I'm
hasted, I'm going to throw two daggers at him. The

first one is, probably hits, where's the freaking
page? 23 for the first.

MATT: 23 hits.

LIAM: 18 for the second.

MATT: Okay.

LIAM: Do they both hit or just the first? I'm only
doing two.

MATT: What was the second one? It was--

LIAM: 18.

MATT: 18 hits.

LIAM: Okay, so the first one is seven, the second
is seven. And I want to use the rest of my turn

to, as I'm hasted, to run around to the back of
that obelisk and start reading.

MATT: Over here?

LIAM: Yeah.

MATT: Okay. All right. As you're doing that
reaction shot, it calls down the column, hits both

of you before you can burst off. All of a sudden,
as you look over at your brother, you feel this

rising energy before all of a sudden this entire
area is (boom) consumed in burning holy divine

light. I need both of you guys to make a dexterity
saving throw.

LIAM: I'm going to use evasion.

MATT: Yeah, evasion happens automatically as part
of your reaction to that, so yeah.

LIAM: Okay.

LAURA: 30.

LIAM: Dexterity, so 14.

MATT: You rolled a what?

LAURA: 30.

MATT: 30 dexterity saving throw?

LIAM: No, eff it, I'm going to use my last Luck of
the day. Ugh, barely any better. 16.

MATT: 16 for you?

LIAM: Mm-hmm.

MATT: Okay. Right, so Vex? You take half damage
from this. You take full damage, unfortunately. So

that's going to be 21 points of fire and radiant
damage to you.

TRAVIS: Is half?

MATT: 21 is the half. You, however, have
resistance to fire, Liam.

LIAM: Yes.

MATT: So the 22 points of fire damage you would've
taken is reduced to 11.

LIAM: With evasion, if I fail, I take half
damage.

MATT: Right, so yeah, so you would take, so you
would take the same, but a quarter because of

halving fire damage to take from that.

LIAM: So I didn't hear the number because I was
reading, what was--?

TRAVIS: 21, so half 21 would be 11.

MATT: Well, radiant damage you're not resistant to, so
I'd say it would be 17 points of damage. There you

go. You rush out of the flames and find your way
around the obelisk. However, you have to wait

until your turn before you can take a look at
that. All right, now it comes to Keyleth's turn.

MARISHA: Okay. I yell out: Issylra!

MATT: It doesn't seem to have any effect.

MARISHA: Okay, that might be a continent.

MATT: It is.

(laughter)

MATT: It's the continent where Vasselheim is,
and--

MARISHA: Not his name. And I cast Control Water
again and I start pouring the water out of the

pools and onto the fire.

MATT: Okay. The water comes out as a column,
doesn't appear to be coming to an end, you're not

quite sure where it's being drawn from, it's this
constant stream, and as it hits the flame (tshhh)

but the flames aren't going out. It's all turning
to steam and it's filling the room with steam and

the more and more it pours into it, the more and
more the room is beginning to become obscured and

making it hard to see.

MARISHA: Okay, well, I stop that.

MATT: Okay. As you do, the streams stop water. The
pools are still completely still where you've

pulled it out of, seemingly unbothered other than
the little bit of wind that's blowing, and have

not lessened in their volume at all.

MARISHA: Good to know. Can I do some sort of check
to see if I would've heard anything about this

type of a thing in my druid time, is this like a
different plane of existence, what is this shit?

MATT: What, this place you are?

MARISHA: Yeah, or would I know of what his name
would be from the telling of the Second Spark and

any of my elemental knowledge as a druid?

MATT: Make an intelligence check.

MARISHA: Ooh, that's good. 19.

MATT: 19. Thinking back about the stories you've
heard, which isn't a whole lot necessarily. Are we

good on the stream?

RYAN: (off-camera) Yeah, we're good on the
stream.

LIAM: Had a little flicker.

MATT: We had a little flicker. You recall, go
through, poring through all the information that

was given to you, you don't know a whole lot about
the history element, it isn't a part of the

druidic training experience, but based on the
discussion with Highbearer Vord, no mention of a

sphinx, nothing like that.

MARISHA: Fuck. I don't know, you guys!

MATT: I think that's your turn, though. Unless you
want to move.

MARISHA: No. I'm good.

MATT: Okay. End of your turn, the shimmering webs
on each side flash for a second, and stepping out

of them, you can see a slightly translucent, not
fully physical spider on each side.

LIAM: Fey spiders, you son of a-- oh god, I keep
hitting that, we got to fix that.

MATT: This spider immediately (skittering) up to
Percy. And this one (skittering) up to Vex.

LAURA: Ah, c'mon!

MATT: Versus you, Percy, rolled a one. Completely
missed. It goes and reaches out towards you, out

of the way. Vex, however, that is a 23.

LAURA: That hits me.

MATT: That hits. You go ahead and suffer--

LAURA: You go ahead and suffer!

MATT: (laughs) Suffer nine points of psychic
damage. The spider, upon biting you, dissipates

out of existence. It actually bites you and then
its form (shhk) into your head and causes this

psychic backlash and feedback in your head. The
other spider misses you and remains in existence.

Top of the round, Percy, you're up.

SAM: Oh, well if, at the end of the round, have I
not gone yet?

MATT: You have not gone yet, do you want to?

SAM: Can I go?

MATT: Yeah.

SAM: Yeah, I mean, I guess I'll attack at this
point.

MATT: Okay.

SAM: I'll try something that will definitely fail.
I will try and fail to put him into the Resilient

Sphere. Which I'm sure will fail. (laughs)

MATT: What is the DC on the Resilient Sphere?

SAM: Well, I don't have my stuff with me.

MATT: I believe if it's through the--

SAM: Through the hand cone?

MATT: The hand cone I think is 20 now, isn't it?

SAM: It's 20 now, yeah.

MATT: Okay, so it doesn't make its dexterity
saving throw.

SAM: But I have disadvantage on attack, but that
doesn't matter.

MATT: Doesn't matter for this one. That is 21.
Yep.

SAM: Okay.

MATT: So. You attempt to create the sphere around
it. As you can see it begins to encase the sphinx,

and the sphinx just-- its head, after staring at
Grog, goes (growls), and as it roars at you, the

sphere that's formed around it shatters and the
arcane essence is scattered

about the room and vanishes.

SAM: Can I ask him if his name is Earned?

MATT: He sits there glaring at you.

SAM: Okay, that's a stupid question, sorry.

TRAVIS: Maybe say it in Celestial.

SAM: I don't know Celestial!

LAURA: Say it in Celestial, Percy.

MATT: All right, so that's Percy's turn now,
Percy, what are you doing?

TALIESIN: The first thing I'm going to is, I'm
going to guess a name, because that's fun.

MATT: Sure.

TALIESIN: I'm going to yell, Lux! Whatever that
would be in Celestial. First light.

MATT: Okay. You shout out, and the sound of
Celestial being spoken has this echo to it, this,

Lux, and it fades afterward. It has no immediate
effect, the wind seems to swallow it around you

from all the noise going around. The sphinx has no
interest.

TALIESIN: That's fine, I'm going to take a slash
at that spider with my sword.

MATT: Go for it.

TALIESIN: That's 19.

MATT: 19 hits.

TALIESIN: I don't suppose that there's a keyword
dragon in there anywhere?

MATT: A what?

TALIESIN: I don't suppose there's a keyword dragon
anywhere in that spider's description, but--

MATT: (laughs) No, there isn't.

TALIESIN: Pissing in the wind.

MATT: It's okay. It is a magical sword you're
attacking with, right?

TALIESIN: It is a magical sword I'm attacking
with. That's 11 points of slashing damage.

MATT: This spider is scattered into ether.

TALIESIN: With my sword out, I'm going to run down
the hall and I'm going to take two more slashing

attacks at the web.

MATT: Okay. Go ahead and roll.

TALIESIN: 17, but really, how hard is it to hit a
web?

MATT: It's more about finding the right place to
do the proper damage, but that works, go ahead and

roll damage.

TALIESIN: That's 13 points of damage.

MATT: Okay. You cut through some of the threads,
it limps on one side, but it's still keeping

itself aloft.

TALIESIN: 19.

MATT: All right, that hits, go ahead and roll
damage.

TALIESIN: Ooh. 15 points of damage.

MATT: 15 points of damage. All right. With that,
the second strike, the thread dissipates and turns

into smoke and vanishes from existence. None of
the threads remain, it vanishes.

TALIESIN: Is there anything written on the wall?

MATT: Go ahead and roll an investigation check.

SAM: It says, "That guy's name is Paul."

MARISHA: Paul was here.

TALIESIN: 19.

MATT: Okay, 19. Glancing at the wall behind--

TALIESIN: Fucking brain! Knowledge is power. For
reals!

LAURA: Maybe that's his name. Power.

MATT: It says in Celestial, "Windows and doors."

LAURA: The sky. The sky.

TALIESIN: Water and sky.

MATT: It says windows and doors.

TALIESIN: I say out loud, windows and doors! Water
and sky! And that's--

MATT: That's your turn. Percy's over. Vax, you're
up.

LIAM: I'm taking a quick look at the obelisk that
I'm right in front of, I think it's in Elvish,

isn't it?

MATT: The obelisk in front of you? This actually,
aside from the symbol of Ioun, there's no writing

on it.

LIAM: There's nothing on it, nothing to do. I'm
going to throw three daggers through the web. Is

that the one-- so Percy's over there? I'm going to
throw three daggers through the web over there.

MATT: Okay, go for it.

LIAM: 13. 30. And 17.

MATT: All right, what was it? Sorry, it was?

LIAM: 13, 30, and 17.

MATT: All right, the second two hit, so go ahead
and roll damage.

LIAM: Ten and eight.

MATT: Ten and eight. All right. You throw two and
it cuts a few threads and the path of it falls

limp but the web stays up.

LIAM: And I can't move any closer to the sphinx at
this point, right, because of the fear?

MATT: Correct.

LIAM: So I'm stuck here, am I?

MATT: Yeah, you can't move any closer to it right
now. But you can make a saving throw at the end of

your turn to try--

LIAM: I will do that. I'd also like to take
one step to the right.

MATT: One step to the right? All right.

LIAM: This way, yeah. And no, I rolled an eight
for wisdom.

MATT: Okay, so you're still in the fear
effect. All right. By the way, Grog, go ahead and

make a saving throw to resist the effect so it's
gone, even though you--

TRAVIS: Oh, at disadvantage?

MATT: Yeah.

TRAVIS: Which saving throw?

MATT: It's wisdom.

TRAVIS: (laughs) Five.

MATT: All right, you're still under the effect.
And Scanlan, actually, roll it again.

TRAVIS: Oh, but I'm raging.

MATT: Right, you resist, I mean, it doesn't affect
you but it still persists.

TRAVIS: Got you.

MATT: If you stopped raging then the fear would
kick in.

SAM: Is this a saving throw?

MATT: This is wisdom.

SAM: And do I still get advantage or no, because
the first time it's cast.

MATT: You would, I'd say, sure.

SAM: 12.

MATT: 12, yeah. The fear still strikes in your
heart. All right. Vax, that's the end of your

turn. All right. I need everybody in here to go
ahead and reroll initiative as the time flux in

the room all of a sudden flickers and time seems
to shift and move. Everyone reroll initiative.

MARISHA: What? Well, that's a better roll.

SAM: Are we time bandits now? Is that what's
happening?

TALIESIN: Oh my god. His name is the Doctor.

(laughter)

MARISHA: But Doctor who?

TALIESIN: Doctor whom. That's always bothered me.
Doctor whom.

MATT: All right, so. 25 to 20.

SAM: 20.

MATT: 20.

LAURA: 23.

MATT: Okay.

LAURA: 22, that's a lie, 22.

SAM: Liar.

TALIESIN: Liar!

MATT: Okay. 20 to 15?

TALIESIN: 18.

MARISHA: 18.

TRAVIS: 17.

MATT: All right, we got Percy, Keyleth, Grog. All
right. And then.

LIAM: Ocho.

MATT: Ocho? Pike's before you.

LIAM: Time slippage, man.

MATT: Yeah man, it sucks. All right. That ends
that count. It is now its turn. The time shift

actually managed to lose your turn, both you and
Scanlan. You guys shifted

through the top of the order.

LAURA: Wait, but I still rolled a 22.

MATT: I know.

TALIESIN: I hate time travel so much.

TRAVIS: It screws a high roll.

MATT: Basically, Scanlan, you can go
simultaneously now. You lose your turn.

SAM: That sounds cool.

MATT: I mean, it's time, it's shitty.

TRAVIS: What's the Celestial word for time?

MARISHA: I know, we were thinking about that
time.

MATT: You know what? It doesn't specify. I'll say
go ahead. It starts at the top of the initiative

round, so you know what? Vex, your turn, go for
it. Go for it. Doesn't specify, I could be a dick

about it, but you know.

LAURA: I take back my glare.

MATT: It's more fun to not have your turn lost.

TALIESIN: There was a time jump so the glare never
happened.

MATT: What you got?

LAURA: Can I look up at the ceilings and see if
there's any portals on the top of the ceiling like

there were in the last room?

MATT: Make a perception check.

LAURA: 29.

MATT: 29. Nope, solid stone ceiling.

LAURA: Is there anything to tie the Robe of
Infinite Twine onto?

MATT: I mean, there's the brazier, but it's pretty
close to flame and you don't know if rope will

survive that.

LAURA: Do I still have the Immovable Rod from
before?

MATT: Yeah, you retrieved it, yeah.

LAURA: Okay, then I put the Immovable Rod, I tie
it in, I hold on to the rope,

and I jump in the water.

MATT: Okay. You take the rod and you (click) in
the middle of the air, you take the rope, tie it

around real fast over everything, and the sphinx
now looming forward being attacked and flanked by

the two of them. You take the rope and jump into
the water. There's no splash, you disappear into

the water. You guys watch her vanish into the
pool.

MARISHA: Vex jumped in the water?

MATT: Yeah.

MARISHA: Cool.

LIAM: The code is "critrole", and you will not
have to pay for any kind of shipment in any way,

shape, or form. The wood still costs.

MARISHA: Also, look how attractive that map is.
Dwarven Forge, everybody.

SAM: Oh boy. We'll be making an appearance--

TALIESIN: Don't do that. That's weird. Stop that.
God, every time you're off camera.

LIAM: Travis is flexing his boobies.

SAM: Guys, we're going to die because we can't
think of the name Steve.

TALIESIN: It'll be fine.

MARISHA: Yeah, there's a correlation with blue.

TALIESIN: I have theories. I have lots and lots of
theories.

MARISHA: I have lots of theories, too.

TALIESIN: I have lots of theories. There's lots of
theories here, we have to be fast enough to try

them out.

SAM: Test them out.

LIAM: And then time shifts and we're back in.

TALIESIN: I can only move so fast through the
room.

MATT: Do you pull yourself out?

LAURA: Yeah, I pull myself back out.

MATT: Okay, you guys, there's a breathless moment
and suddenly Vex comes out from the rope,

drenched in water.

LAURA: Oh my god.

SAM: What?

LAURA: K-A. Other door. But make sure there's a
rope.

SAM: K-A? What does that mean?

LAURA: Jump in the water. Make sure you can get
out.

SAM: What?

TRAVIS: K-A on the door?

SAM: What does that mean? What?

MATT: As you say K-A out loud, the sphinx goes--
there's a glimmer in the eye at you, and it

continues on, looking over at Grog and Scanlan.

SAM: You got part of the name? Part of the name.

MARISHA: Oh, son of a bitch! All right.

SAM: Which water did you go in?

LAURA: The little brazier that I'm next to.

SAM: Okay.

LAURA: But don't jump in without a rope.

MARISHA: You're on the one on the left. Yeah?

LAURA: Yeah. Make sure you can get out.

MATT: All right, that ends your turn. Scanlan,
you're up.

SAM: Well, shit. I want to go diving, but I don't
think I'd make it over there. Shit. For now, I'll

just-- someone else is going to do the water
thing, I assume?

MARISHA: I can, I'm close by, I'm close by, I can
handle it.

MATT: At the end of your turn, the water that's
around you, it's freezing cold and you suffer

eight points of cold damage.

LAURA: Okay.

MATT: From the process of submerging into it.
However, once that damage hits, your body heat

manages to recover, and it turns back to normal
water temperature, so.

SAM: I'm going to, I will attempt to cast Eyebite
on the sphinx.

MATT: Okay. The DC is 20 on that?

SAM: Yeah.

MATT: What is the saving throw for that one?

SAM: Wisdom.

MATT: Wisdom. Eyebite it is. That is a 27. Yeah,
it resists the Eyebite.

SAM: What a dick. What a dick. Well, I can't do
anything else, so I will-- hi. Who's around? Who's

about to do something? I'll turn to Vax and
inspire him.

MATT: Okay, go for it.

SAM: That's it. I'll say, (singing) You are not
throwing away your shot, you are not throwing away your

shot, you're just like your sister, you're young,
brooding and hungry, and you're not throwing away

your shot.

(laughter)

MATT: That's fantastic. Okay. All right, so. You
take your d10 inspiration die. At the end of your

turn, it goes to the lair count. Lair count's
already happened this turn, so I'm not going to

keep that going. However, the sphinx does take its
turn. It's going to go ahead and loose a claw

attack at both of you. Against Scanlan, that is--

SAM: I'm going to use Cutting Words.

MATT: Okay. All right.

SAM: To get out of it. I'm going to blow my shawm.
(high-pitched lip whistle noise)

(laughter)

SAM: To distract it.

MATT: Roll a d10. It rolled a 25 to hit, so.

SAM: He's still going to hit me. A d10.

MATT: Yeah, so roll a d10 and that's how much it
reduces it by.

SAM: By eight.

MATT: By eight, that brings it to a 17. What's
your AC?

SAM: 16.

MATT: So it still hits you. Hits you for 28 points
of slashing damage as its giant claw (whoosh)

rakes across you. The sheer impact almost throws
you off the top of the platform, and you can feel

the blood beginning to seep from the wound under
your armor. It turns around and rapidly does a

full-on claw attack towards you, Grog. That is
going to be a 27 to hit.

TRAVIS: Oh yeah.

MATT: You also take 28 points of damage. It is
magical damage, however, you don't-- doesn't

matter for you, being, it's a resistance against slashing, so
you take 14 points of slashing damage from the

strike. That's going to end its turn. That brings
us to Percy.

TALIESIN: Who's that?

MARISHA: That's Ashley.

TALIESIN: That's Ashley?

MARISHA: That's Pike, yeah yeah.

TALIESIN: I'm going to yell at Pike, first thing.

MATT: Okay.

TALIESIN: Look into the wind, look into the
typhoon, tell me what you see!

MATT: "What?" She hears you, yeah.

TALIESIN: I'm going to run to the little stone
pile, and out of idle curiosity, I'm going to try

to shove a bunch of stuff away to see if there's
anything in there, look at the stones or

anything.

MATT: Okay, so you take your action, you start
pulling the stones away. As you rummage through,

you pull apart and you begin to see there is--
where there was hard rocks, you're starting to

find finer stones, until eventually you find sand.
Just like the sand that you encountered in the

previous room.

TALIESIN: Okay. I'm going to take a handful, I'm
going to grab a bunch of that and--

MATT: Okay, you reach in and as your hands
disappear into the sand, there's no resistance

once they hit the sand, they vanish into the sand.

TALIESIN: I put on my mask and I shove my head
in.

MATT: Okay. You shove your head through.

SAM: Whispers.

MARISHA: Whispers!

LAURA: So many whispers!

TRAVIS: You know what this means, right? Jump in
the fire.

SAM: Oh my god. Oh wait, we got to jump into all
these things?

LAURA: Maybe. I don't know. How long is his name?

MARISHA: Yeah, how long is his name?

SAM: Mississippi.

TRAVIS: Rumpelstiltskin.

MARISHA: You already did water, I'm wondering if
there's anything in the other one,

or I might try fire.

LAURA: Oh. You're right.

SAM: No, you've got to go for the water.

TRAVIS: The element is going to be a quarter of
the letters.

TALIESIN: I pull out my head and I yell, J-I.

LAURA: J-I.

SAM: K-A-J-I?

MARISHA: K-A-J-I.

LAURA: Kaiju.

MARISHA: K-A-J-I. But it could be any fucking
order. Wait, wait, wait! Did anyone take note of

the order on the cycle?

SAM and LIAM: It was a circle.

MARISHA: Never mind.

MATT: All right, Percy, that's your turn? You
going to move?

TALIESIN: I burned a whole turn doing that, didn't
I?

MATT: Yeah, that's going to be the rest of it. All
right, Keyleth, you're up.

MARISHA: Okay. Seeing Vex jump in and seeing Percy
stick his head in a wall, I run up to the fire

column.

TALIESIN: Yeah! Yeah!

MARISHA: Right there. And see if there's anything
in the fire.

MATT: Percy, you also suffered seven points of
damage from the crushing and bludgeoning on your

head as it passed through.

MARISHA: And I take the fire hand and I stick it,
and I light up my fire and I

stick it in the fire.

MATT: Okay.

MARISHA: Does anything happen?

MATT: You put your hand in and your hand is
still-- it's hot because of the flame that's on

it. As you put it in, it is a scorching hot pain.

MARISHA: Okay.

MATT: You take two points of fire damage just from
placing it in there.

MARISHA: Okay, I pull it out and I go fire
elemental.

MATT: Okay.

TALIESIN: Yeah!

TRAVIS: Do it, do it.

TALIESIN: You're my hero.

LIAM: Heat don't hurt.

MARISHA: And I stick my head, go into the fire.

MATT: Into the flame?

MARISHA: Into the flame!

(cheering)

LIAM: I think we should stop there. We should not
go into the wind.

SAM: Where's the wind one?

LIAM: Center.

SAM: Okay.

TRAVIS: Why? Was that sarcastic?

LIAM: Yeah.

TRAVIS: (Grog voice) It was lost on me. Your
subtle humor is lost on me.

SAM: What else can we plug?

LAURA: I don't know.

SAM: Be sure to follow us at @CriticalRole.

LAURA: Hey, we're on twitter, you guys!
@CriticalRole.

SAM: @CriticalRole is on twitter.

TRAVIS: Don't miss the beginning of the 50th
episode.

MARISHA: I pull my head out and I go, M-A-L. The
letters M-A-L.

SAM: Kajimal. Kajimal. His name's Michael
Jackson.

MATT: All right, that's going to be your turn
there. At the end of your turn, he's going to go

ahead and use a point to do a claw attack against
Scanlan again.

LIAM: His name is probably Jamal Porter.

MATT: Hm. That's a natural 20.

TRAVIS: Natural 20?

MATT: Yeah.

SAM: No worries. I didn't need to live anyway.

MARISHA: Against Scanlan? Oh, Jesus Christ.

MATT: You take 38 points of slashing damage as the
claw grabs you and slams you against the stone,

and you can feel the claw actually pierce part of
your throat.

TRAVIS: Oh, shit.

MATT: And as it withdraws, you can feel the blood
beginning to pour. It didn't hit anything vital,

but it's a serious wound--

SAM: All the vital stuff's below the belt.

MATT: All right. That ends Keyleth's turn. That
brings us to Grog. This thing is tearing into

Scanlan.

TRAVIS: Yeah. I run over to Scanlan. How jacked-up
are you?

SAM: I'm all right.

TRAVIS: Are you?

SAM: Totally fine.

TRAVIS: All right. Then I run down the steps and I
jump into the tornado.

MATT: (laughs) Okay. You leap into it.

LAURA: Oh no, Grog can't read.

(laughter)

SAM: Oh no, that's true!

MATT: Pike looks over and sees you whoosh into the
cyclone and vanish.

TRAVIS: (laughs) There's a couple of lines.

LIAM: Squiggly lines.

LAURA: It's like a--

LIAM: Snake shape and a box.

LAURA: There's a circle.

SAM: Two sticks and a snake.

LIAM: (Grog voice) Six. It said six.

LAURA: (Grog voice) Also ale.

SAM: Cake and a rope.

MARISHA: Good call.

LAURA: Was that O-I?

TALIESIN: This is why I'm the smart one.

MARISHA: You are. You are.

TALIESIN: Arsehole.

SAM: Check out our 50th episode next week,
guys, with special guests Vin Diesel--

TALIESIN: It's going to be so fleek. Streets
ahead.

MATT: Okay, you guys get the idea of what's going
on, we're going to now bring this, because now

shit's happening. So. Grog, after seeing this,
though you cannot say to anyone what you found

yet, you, having no tether, are drifting away from
the portal and seeing it disappearing slowly away

from you. What are you going to do?

TRAVIS: Can I grab my earring and say what I see?

MATT: You grab your earring, you say it. There's
no response. You guys hear nothing.

SAM: He's gone.

MATT: And you're about 15 feet away from it now.

LAURA: Grog?

TRAVIS: Can I take my Chain of Returning and
attach it to Craven Edge and throw it through the

doorway that I see?

MATT: You can. Go ahead and roll for an attack.

LAURA: What if it hits Pike?

TALIESIN: Should've had a breakfast!

TRAVIS: 23.

MATT: 23. Whoosh. You fling it through, and it
catches something. You feel it's taut, you start

pulling your way in, pulling your way in, pulling
your way in. Go ahead and roll damage.

LAURA and MARISHA: It's Pike.

TALIESIN: Oh.

SAM: God. It's fine.

MARISHA: It's got to be Pike.

TRAVIS: Damage, oh, damage. Sorry, damage. I
rolled the wrong thing.

Please don't let it be Pike. Nine.

LAURA: Pike.

TRAVIS: 14.

LAURA: Plus 2d6 necrotic.

MATT: Yep, plus 2d6 necrotic damage.

TRAVIS: 30.

MATT: 30. 30 points of damage. Okay. You pull the
chain and you make your way to the portal, you put

your hands out, pull through, and as you do, the
chain in your hand-- you look and you can see now,

grasping onto the edge of the wall, you see Pike,
sweat dripping down her face as Craven Edge has

embedded itself into her abdomen. She's holding
it, and she looks at you with a gritted face and

she goes, "It's okay, Grog. You're back, that's
all that matters."

LAURA: That's the saddest thing ever!

TRAVIS: I crawl through the door. Can I run to Pike?
That's my turn.

SAM: Did you get any of his name?

MATT: Doesn't have a chance yet. At the end of this
turn, it uses the last two points of its legendary

actions to Teleport.

SAM: I'm going to Counterspell that.

MATT: Okay.

SAM: Don't know why.

LIAM: Keep it away from Pike and Grog!

TALIESIN: It's always the right move.

LIAM: Yeah. Instinct, buddy.

MATT: All right. So now we get to go ahead and
roll for this, I believe. Let me go ahead and

check what level it is, I believe it's a-- all
right, this is a 7th-level spell.

SAM: Jesus. I mean, I wrote down crazy things, but
it says at level four, roll plus five, versus ten

plus level. I don't even know what that means!

MATT: Here, hold on. So DC equals ten plus level,
so it's DC 17.

SAM: Okay. So I have to roll?

MATT: Using an ability check. Roll d20 and add
five, trying to beat a 17.

SAM: Ability check at disadvantage.

MATT: Yes.

SAM: Yeah, that's not going to happen.

LIAM: Yes it is, come on.

SAM: Well, that would've worked. The first one was
an 11 plus five.

MATT: 16. One under. You go to Counterspell, but
the image of its head, and seeing Pike wounded,

it's too much for you and your hand shakes and you
can't manage to clarify the Dispel Magic, as the

whole sphinx vanishes and appears right next to
Pike. All right. That brings us to Vax.

LIAM: Can I try to make my wisdom save before I do
anything, or does that come at the end?

MATT: At the end of your turn.

LIAM: All right. Then I'm going to come around the
corner.

MATT: It's not in your sight, by the way, you
don't see it.

LIAM: I know. Can I walk over, yeah, ten feet that
way and see it scowling down at Pike.

MATT: You can, yeah, around the edge.

LIAM: And put three daggers in its flank.

MATT: Go for it.

LIAM: First one misses, it's a 13. 24. And a 15.

MATT: All right. 13, 24, 15.

LIAM: Yeah.

MATT: Middle one hits.

LIAM: Eight. Eight points of damage. I'm going to
try to shake off the fear.

MATT: Eight points. It does get sneak attack
because it's adjacent to Pike.

LIAM: But am I at disadvantage because of the
fear? I thought I was at disadvantage.

MATT: Oh, you're at disadvantage to all the
attacks, yeah. Wait, I'm sorry. I thought those

were your three attacks.

LIAM: I did three attack rolls, but I thought that
to get sneak attack damage I need advantage, but

if I'm afraid, I don't have advantage.

MATT: Right, but Pike's still adjacent. That's one
of the ways you can get sneak attack, is either

having advantage or an ally's adjacent.

LIAM: All right. I thought that meant that, sorry.
All right, I'll take it. Four, seven, 13, 25.

Added to what I said before, which was eight, so
33.

MATT: 33. So one dagger, two of them you throw and
they vanish into the cyclone, consumed and

thankfully return with magic or they would be gone
for good. Third one you throw. It stabs into the

shank of the sphinx, who growls, turns back to
Pike. All right, is that your turn?

LIAM: I don't know what I rolled, so I'm going to
roll again. 20.

MATT: 20. You manage to finally shake off the
fear. All right.

LIAM: Can I use the rest of my movement?

MATT: You can, yes.

LIAM: I'm going to run up to the side of the
sphinx.

MATT: You're there. All righty. Now produces two
spiders. Jump out of the web. Both of them, the

only thing they see, rush up to Vex. That is a
natural 20 and a two. (laughs) So the second one

misses you, first one you take 16 points of
psychic damage, and that one vanishes on the

impact. All right. That ends their turn. Up to the
top, Vex, it's your turn.

LAURA: Grog, what did you see?

TRAVIS: Can I respond?

MATT: I would say make a wisdom saving throw. At
the sight of what you've done to Pike and all that

is happening, this is to see if you can shake from
the stupor of what has happened.

TRAVIS: Nine.

MATT: He's not responsive right now.

LAURA: I guess I-- Jesus. Can I bring Trinket out?
That's stupid. If I, well, I'm going to go and try

to see what's going on over there with the
sphinx.

MATT: Okay, so you rush over right there?

LAURA: Can I see Grog?

MATT: You can, you can see Grog. As you rush
around the corner, you can see the sphinx there,

you see Pike with Craven Edge partially embedded
in her abdomen, the chain now lax, as Grog is

standing on the outside of the portal holding it
in his hand, his eyes wide. The rage has faded

now, by the way.

TRAVIS: Yeah.

LAURA: Can I run forward and cast Cure Wounds on
Pike?

SAM: She's Pike!

LAURA: She's got a fucking sword in her! Can I
help her?

MATT: Yeah, you could cast Cure Wounds if you
want.

LAURA: I mean, does she still have a sword through
her, can I pull her off of it and then cast it?

MATT: Sword is still inside of her right now,
yeah.

LIAM: Don't do damage to yourself.

MATT: You can try and pull it out if you want to.
Make a strength check. Roll a d20, add your

strength modifier.

LAURA: I know, I-- oh, natural 20!

MATT: And for the one who normally can't find the
physical strength of activities like this, through

the inspiration of seeing--

LAURA: It reminds me of what happened to Pike
before.

MATT: Yeah. And that clear image crystallizes in
your mind of when that glabrezu snatched her from

you once. And with that, you find the strength to
persevere, you reach out and grabbing the jagged

blade take nine points of necrotic damage in
touching the outside of the blade, but you pull,

you can see the blood forming at the edge of your
fingers as you yank it outside of Pike's body, and

it clatters to the ground at the base of Grog's
feet. Grog's still seeing this all before you,

eyes wide open, mouth agape.

LAURA: Grog, snap out of it! And I cast Cure
Wounds on Pike's stomach.

MATT: Okay, what level?

LAURA: Level three.

MATT: Level three. So 3d8 plus, I think it's--
what's your modifier for wisdom?

LAURA: Three.

MATT: So 3d8 plus three. And that will end Vex's
turn. Scanlan, you're up.

SAM: Can I roll to see if I'm fearful?

MATT: That'll be the end of your turn.

SAM: Okay. Then I'm going to, as a bonus action,
cast Healing Words on myself.

LAURA: 17.

MATT: 17? Okay, good to know.

SAM: I'll heal myself at level two. 2d4 plus
five. Okay. Seven points, great. And then for my

action I'll Dimension Door into the tornado.

MATT: Okay. You Dimension Door into the cyclone.
You find yourself on the outside of the wind

before it grabs you and pulls you in. You step
through a portal and you're now drifting out in an

expanse of air and cloud. There's no up, there's
no down, there's no left or right, you see various

masses of land slowly rotating in place as you see
different gusts of wind floating about. You drift

by and see a single stone that has carvings on
it.

SAM: Dammit.

TALIESIN: You did this to yourself.

SAM: Great.

MATT: However, you have no anchor and you are
drifting away from the opening you came through.

SAM: That's my action and my bonus. I have no
movement.

MATT: Correct, so you were--

SAM: I'm gonna just do this.

MATT: Okay. You do that. There's, it's air, you're
still drifting away. All right. That brings us to

the top of the initiative round. Let's see. For
this one, I need everyone in the room to go ahead

and make another constitution saving throw.

TRAVIS: So ready for a nap. 24.

MATT: 24. Vex, what'd you get?

LAURA: Six.

LIAM: Seven.

MATT: Keyleth?

MARISHA: Do I use my fire elemental constitution?
14.

TALIESIN: 18.

MATT: 18. Okay. Pike makes it.

LAURA: So hard to get these last two fucking
letters.

MATT: Okay, so you rolled a 14?

MARISHA: 14.

MATT: All right, so Keyleth, Vax, and Vex, all
three of you guys suddenly feel the wind pulled

out from you once again, and you all age, and now
I'm giving you the specifics here, you're

aging each time this happens. Ten years. All three
of you. Bones are starting to ache a little bit.

Not terribly, but a little more than usual. Your
body's now starting to feel the wear of time

passage.

TRAVIS: If that's happened twice, they're 20 years
older.

MATT: Yeah. 25 for those who got hit before.

SAM: Wait, the first time was 25 years?

MATT: The first one was 15, now it's an additional
ten to those who were hit.

LAURA: The first one was 15?

MATT: Yes.

LAURA: Wow. But as a half-elf you have a longer
life, so really at age 50, you're not that far in.

MATT: It's not huge, it's not like a major
difference. You know, 25 years to a human, to

Percy, would be a lot harsher than it is to you
guys. It's minor differences. It is now the

sphinx's turn, the sphinx is now going to (roars)
roar even louder this time. This roar echoes out

with a shockwave. I need everybody except for
Scanlan to make another wisdom saving throw.

MARISHA: Fuck me.

TRAVIS: Ten.

MATT: Ten? And you were still frightened from
previously, right? Because you did not shake that.

TRAVIS: Yeah, I never shook it, still in a rage,
but never shook it.

LAURA: But your rage ended.

MATT: You dropped the rage. All right. Pike. All
right.

LAURA: Natural 20.

LIAM: 11.

MARISHA: 24.

TALIESIN: 19.

MATT: All right, so. Vax, suddenly as the blast
hits, the fear hits you again as the sound

vanishes and you can't hear.

LIAM: Mup.

MATT: There's nothing. You are completely
deafened.

TRAVIS: Deafened?

MATT: As are you and Pike. However, because you
were previously frightened, you find your muscles

tense up and you are both paralyzed as well. You
cannot move, you cannot speak, you cannot--

LIAM: And I'm not afraid, but I'm deaf.

MATT: You are afraid and deaf. Yeah. All right.
Percy, it's your turn.

TRAVIS: We've both seen it, we can't say shit.

SAM: Well, I'm floating to my death, so.

TALIESIN: Bugger all, I got to fix this shit. Oh,
what a clusterfuck.

SAM: Don't worry, I still have my lips. (blows
whistle)

(laughter)

TALIESIN: Great. Okay. Where is-- can you point to
Vex in that?

TRAVIS: Wait, didn't I have Freedom of Movement?

MATT: This is Vex here. You do have Freedom of
Movement. So you are not currently affected by

paralysis. Look at you, remembering your buffs,
buddy! So the fear still hits you, and your

muscles tense, but you, looking over at Pike now
frozen in place, you remember everything that's

transpired and that holy divine energy that she
imbued upon you glows from the inside, and your

muscles return to you and you're still able to
function.

TRAVIS: Oh, Pike!

MATT: Percy, you're up.

TALIESIN: I'm going to turn around the corner.

MATT: Around here?

TALIESIN: Grog, say the bloody words!

MATT: Make another wisdom saving throw.

MARISHA: Come on, Grog. Snap out of it.

TRAVIS: Nine. At a disadvantage.

TALIESIN: Okay. All right, all right, all right.
What the fuck am I going to do? I am going to hold

my turn right here.

MATT: Okay, holding your action.

TALIESIN: Until such time as someone says the
fucking letters that we need, and I'm going to be

ready to yell them out.

MATT: All right, Keyleth. Actually, at the end of
Percy's turn, the sphinx is going to go ahead.

It's going to use one of its actions to do a claw
attack now against-- this is going to be against

Pike. That is going to be a 15, which misses. The
claw, even though she's paralyzed-- actually, no,

he has advantage on the attack because she's
paralyzed. Rolled a one on the second one. Manages

to hit her, but the armor and the shield takes the
brunt of it, not dealing any physical damage to

it. There's now frustration in the sphinx's voice
as it's growling with each one of these screams.

Now it is your turn, Keyleth.

MARISHA: Okay. Question: as a fire elemental, I
can fly, right?

MATT: Does it say on the fire elemental? It should
say movement: flight.

MARISHA: It says that I can, oh, movement? It
doesn't really say, it says I can move through a

space as narrow as one inch wide without
squeezing.

MATT: Well, for the elemental form here, which I have
a list of your elemental forms just in case. Fire

elemental, speed of 50 feet. No, it cannot fly. It
moves as a flame across the ground.

MARISHA: Can't fly. So if I go into that portal
I'm going to be in the same fucking situation, I'm

assuming.

TALIESIN: Sadly, there is only one of us who can
fly, and very busy right now.

MARISHA: Okay, I'm going to drop my elemental
form--

MATT: Okay.

MARISHA: You still have my Immovable Rod?

LAURA: It's planted next to the water.

MATT: It's over there.

LAURA: But my rope is attached to it and it's
dangling next to me. I dropped it when I healed

Pike. So it's right next to me, I pulled the robe
over to there.

MATT: Yeah, the robe that produces the rope is on
the ground right now next to Vex.

MARISHA: Okay, before I drop elemental form I'm
going to go pick up the rod.

MATT: What are you doing?

MARISHA: It's so I can move faster. Pick up the
rod.

MATT: 15, 20, 25, 30, 35, 40, and then you drop
your form to grab the rope.

MARISHA: Drop my form.

MATT: And you're grabbing the what? The rod?

MARISHA: The Immovable Rod.

MATT: All right, so you click the rod off. You now
have the rod with the rope on the end of it.

MARISHA: And do I still have movement now as
myself?

MATT: No, you-- in dropping the form, you've used
most of-- I'd say you have one more square of

movement left.

MARISHA: I'll step forward a square.

MATT: This way or this way?

MARISHA: No, the other way. Yeah, yeah. And say,
Vex, catch!

MATT: Okay, so you throw the Immovable Rod to
her?

MARISHA: Yeah.

MATT: Make a dexterity check, easy enough for
you.

LAURA: 19.

MATT: Yeah, you catch the rod, no issue.

LAURA: I know, it was really close.

MATT: All right. So is that your turn?

MARISHA: I think so. I think that's all I can do.

MATT: All right, that ends Keyleth's turn. At the
end of Keyleth's turn it's going to use another

legendary action. This one, it's going to go ahead
and reach out and strike at you, Vex, as you're

now holding the rod.

LAURA: Of course.

MATT: That's going to be a 29 to hit. You suffer
28 points of slashing damage as its giant claw

rakes across the front of your body, almost
tossing you off your feet from the sheer force of

the blow.

LAURA: 28 points?

MATT: 28 points. That brings us to Grog.

TRAVIS: I look down at Pike. Pike, buddy, are you
all right?

MATT: You've gotten your senses back now at this
point. You look at her, and she's still frozen in

place. She can't move and you can see the sweat's
still pouring from her face. The wound has stopped

bleeding, the wound is still fresh and visible.

TRAVIS: And I call out, the letters inside the
wind are O-R-I.

MARISHA: O-R-I.

LAURA: Maljikaori? Maljikairi?

LIAM: Karimaljika?

LAURA: Kaorimal?

MARISHA: Malkaoriji?

MATT: Anyway. Anyway, before you guys start doing
this whole thing, take your turns to do stuff.

Grog. What else do you want to do on your turn?

TRAVIS: I turn, I face the sphinx, and I don't do
anything.

MATT: Okay.

TRAVIS: Craven Edge is on the ground, right?

MATT: Craven Edge is on the ground, yeah.

TRAVIS: That's it. That's all I do.

MATT: Okay. Ending Grog's turn, it is Pike's turn.
Pike cannot move, fails the saving throw,

unfortunately is still paralyzed, still
frightened.

TALIESIN: I was holding my action for this.

MATT: Okay, what are you going to do?

TALIESIN: Maljikaori?

MATT: No response.

MARISHA: Hang on, wait, before you move it, before
you move it, put it back, put it back, put it

back. Okay, I want to write it down.

TALIESIN: Maorikalji!

MATT: Nothing.

LAURA: The order was fire, earth, water, air. That
was the circle. So it could be in any of those

orders, maybe.

MATT: You've got one more try before your turn's
up, this is--

TALIESIN: Malkaoriji!

MATT: Nope. That is your turn, however. In the six
seconds, you shout out, you come up with and shout

out those three things. That ends Percy's turn. At
the end of Percy's turn, it's going to use its

third legendary action to go ahead and make
another strike at Vex holding the rod. 25 to hit.

LAURA: Yeah.

MATT: Takes another claw and rakes you for 28
points of slashing damage.

LAURA: I'm unconscious.

MATT: Vex falls unconscious on the ground from the
blow, the rod clacks to the ground behind her.

That ends that turn. All right. Oh shit, I did
that out of order. It's fine. That's my fault.

Percy shouldn't have got that turn, but we'll say
it happened, it's fine. Vax, you're up.

LIAM: I'm going to use my bonus action to
disengage from the sphinx and I'm going to run

around the whirlwind, and as I move I'm taking the
rope which I already made a loop on, and I'm going

to throw the loop over Grog's head on one end, and
I'm going to jump into the whirlwind holding

tightly-- I'm going to, into there, I'm going
after Scanlan.

MATT: The rope clenches onto your neck and you
feel like you're being choked suddenly. Without

even realizing this, as you shout this out, all of
a sudden a lasso is thrown around your neck and

pulls back and cuts off your air supply.

TRAVIS: (chokes) Okay.

MATT: And you vanish into the cyclone. The rope
goes taut, pulling. You come through the portal

and you can see, indeed, Scanlan's about 30 feet
away and drifting.

LIAM: And I was hasted and I ran at the
whirlwind.

MATT: Right. Which is why you're gaining on him,
but it's still going to take a moment as you're

both still drifting, because he also leapt through.

LIAM: It's really quiet in here. But then again it
would be really quiet out of here as well.

MATT: Yep. All right, so. That's going to be the
end of your turn, Vax. This spider now is going to

leap over as two more, or sorry, three more leap
out of this. They all rush up to Keyleth, she's

the one visible person there, and all making
strikes against you. That is 19 to hit.

MARISHA: Hits.

MATT: Eight.

MARISHA: Miss.

MATT: 23.

MARISHA: Hits.

MATT: And ten.

MARISHA: Miss.

MATT: All right, so you take 12 points of psychic
damage as two of the spiders dissipate, leaving

nothing but a psychic mist behind. All right. Top
of the turn, Vex, I need you to make a death

saving throw.

LAURA: Six.

MATT: Six. Mark off one of your failed death
saving throws. Scanlan, your turn, you're floating

out in space and you see all of a sudden through the
portal, Vax come rocketing towards you, hand

forward, clutching a rope in one hand, arm
outstretched towards you. What do you want to do?

SAM: Well, as much as I appreciate the gesture,
I'm going to try to Dimension Door out of here.

LIAM: I deftly roll my eyes so fucking hard.

MATT: You Dimension Door and you appear right at
the doorway. You cannot Dimension Door through

dimensions. But you make your way to the outside
of the door. You are still drifting with the

momentum you had going backwards, so you appear
back at the door and start going backwards again.

SAM: Can I grab the door?

MATT: You can grab the rope.

LIAM: I don't see or hear him, so I assume he is
healing my sister right now, and I feel

comforted.

MATT: You see him vanish. There's the rope there
that Vax is carrying. You can grab onto that and

wrestle through. With that, Scanlan manages to
pull himself through the portal, landing onto the

side right there. And you're fine now. That's
probably going to take your full action,

everything to get there, but you're out--

SAM: Bonus too?

MATT: I'll give you a bonus, sure, because your
movement.

SAM: All right. Do I have time to assess and see
that she's dead?

MATT: She's doing pretty rough, yeah.

SAM: I will heal her.

MATT: All right. Healing Word.

SAM: Healing Word at level--

MATT: What level are you doing?

SAM: I don't have many levels. At level three.

MATT: Okay. So that's 3d4 plus five.

SAM: I roll?

MATT: Yes. 3d4 plus five. Finishing up Scanlan's
turn--

SAM: 11.

LAURA: Hey, it's better than zero. Thank you. I'm
alive!

MATT: All right. I need everybody in the room to
roll another constitution saving throw.

LAURA: (laughs) Oh no.

MATT: Except for you, you're not in the room.

LAURA: This aging thing, is it permanent forever?

SAM: We'll find out later.

MARISHA: Maybe if we ask nicely, he'll make us
young again.

LIAM: I probably look really good with ten years
on me.

TRAVIS: 16.

LAURA: Nine.

LIAM: I'm not here.

MATT: Oh, sorry. Keyleth?

MARISHA: 17.

MATT: Pike succeeds. 17.

TALIESIN: 24.

SAM: 21.

MATT: 21. All right. So.

SAM: Do I also have to roll for fear?

MATT: At the end of your turn you would, yes.
Actually, no, I think that's gone off of you now.

It's fine. So Vex, you come to consciousness, and
you age another four years.

LIAM: Aw, he softballed you with that one.

MATT: I rolled a four. It's a d20 every time.
Yeah.

MARISHA: Shit.

TALIESIN: You basically just got Netflix, that's
really all that happened.

MATT: It is now the sphinx's turn.

TRAVIS: We're all laughing and one of us is
unconscious.

LAURA: We're seriously going to die.

TALIESIN: We're not going to die, we're doing
great.

MARISHA: We're doing all right.

MATT: There. Next to Scanlan and Percy, two claw
attacks against you. That is a 28. And 21.

TALIESIN: I'm going to use my shield to glance off 
the 21. I'm going to use the shield of plus five AC.

MATT: Okay. Which reduces it to a--

TALIESIN: Versus AC of 23. It gives me a temporary
AC of 23.

MATT: Right, so the second one would miss. So the
first strike hits you for 28 points of slashing

damage, the second one scrapes across the arcane
barrier that appears before you from the brooch,

and resist that. That's the end of its turn.
Percy, you got your turn last turn when you

shouldn't have, but I'm letting that fly--

TALIESIN: No, because I was holding my--

MATT: Oh sorry, you were holding it, yes.

TALIESIN: It's all part of the plan.

MATT: I confused myself. So yeah. Now it's your
turn.

TALIESIN: I said Jamalkaori last time, if I
recall.

MATT: You did.

TALIESIN: Kaorijimal.

MATT: Nothing.

TALIESIN: All right. I'm going to, while I'm
saying all these things I'm going to be running

around the corner back towards the spiderweb. Make
another one.

MATT: What have you said so far?

TALIESIN: We said, Maljikaori--

MARISHA: Maorikaji.

TALIESIN: Jimalkaori.

MARISHA: And Kaorijimal.

MATT: Right, okay. So. You have two more if you
wanted to do anything, Taliesin.

MARISHA: You should try that one.

TALIESIN: Is that as far as I can move right now?

MATT: You can move up to there, I think.

TALIESIN: Okay, I can't get any closer to the
web?

MATT: Not for your full movement, unfortunately.

TALIESIN: Kamaljiori?

MATT: At this point, all of a sudden the braziers
flicker out. You notice as the wind cyclone begins

to slowly drift to a minor wind curl. At this
point in time, Grog, if you wanted to pull on that

rope it would be a good time.

TRAVIS: Yeah, I turn around and grab the thing
that's strangling my neck like a dog leash and I

yank it in real hard.

MATT: With that, you, as you're drifting off, you
turn around and see the doorway where the rope

goes taut, and the door begins to close.

LIAM: Bye, guys.

MATT: You're pulling yourself in, and suddenly
you're yanked through and come shooting out of it

on the side. With that--

LIAM: I can't hear you.

MATT: --the angry demeanor of the sphinx has
entirely shifted. And now it goes from like this

low, feral position to a proud, honored beast,
putting its paws forward, its shoulders high.

"You have earned a name."

LIAM: What did you say?

SAM: Oh yeah, they're deaf.

MATT: It raises a paw like this, at which point
all the paralysis fades, all the fear fades, all

the effects fade.

MARISHA: Are we young again?

MATT: The age is not dispersed.

SAM: Ever?

MATT: Hold on a second, let me see what it can do.
Actually, no. It goes forward and looks at you,

who's looking the worst for wear comparatively and
says, "I can help but one of you." And his paw

goes out and touches you, there's a warm glow, and
the age vanishes from you. "However, that is the

"extent of my magic this day. Perhaps the little
one could help a few at this. It is but a rather

"challenging restoration." Pike nods. "I can do
that. I can do that."

LAURA: I look at Vax and laugh at him because he's
so much older than I am.

MARISHA: That's true, oh my god, you guys are
never going to experience this ever again.

MATT: "I apologize for the formalities, but it is
a pleasure to meet you, Vox Machina."

TALIESIN: Hello.

MARISHA: Hi.

LAURA: You too.

SAM: What was his name again?

MATT: "Kamaljiori."

LIAM: Hahaha, good one, that was a good one.
Hazing. Who doesn't love hazing, right?

MARISHA: At about that time, I lift up my shoulder
and I show him the Slayer's Take symbol.

MATT: He gives a nod.

SAM: Don't we get something out of this?

MATT: Looks to you and says, "I admire your
impatience. The Vestiges that you seek. Some have

"been destroyed over this epoch. Others lie
scattered across the planes. Some are sealed or

"hidden. Others have found an owner. You carry one
now, I see." The sphinx backs up and turns around

on the steps and lays down, crossing its paws,
glancing at you all, shoulders high. And a smile,

it's warm, it's this interesting contrast to when
you first entered. "Well. I happen to carry a

"Vestige here, if you will take it."

SAM: I mean, sure, if you're getting rid of it
anyway.

TALIESIN: It is most gracious of you.

MATT: Gets up and turns around to the back of the
platform. Takes the marble from beneath its fur

and holds it up to one of the doorways, which
switches--

SAM: What?

LIAM: Dwarven Forge.

LAURA: Secret doors.

MATT: It pulls something from within (shing), and
you see this single thin blade that vibrates as he

pulls it out. The door closes, it puts the marble
away. The blade goes into its teeth, and it steps

back down the stairs. Takes the blade from its
hand as it stops, and holds it out. It's

impossibly small in its hand, it looks very dinky.
"Here I keep the Mythcarver."

MARISHA: Mythcarver?

MATT: "Granted to me by the White Duke himself
before his passing. We were friends long ago. It

"is yours." He takes the blade and sets it down on
the stone.

"But you seek the others that remain, yes?"

SAM: Yes, yes.

TALIESIN: Very much so.

MATT: "Fenthras, the Wrath of the Feywarden, a bow
that felled Titans. It was lost in the Feywild in

"the Calamity."

LIAM: Obviously for Scanlan.

LAURA: Obviously.

MATT: "It now acts as the heart of a cancerous tree,
corrupting the verdant land there. The Plate of

"the Dawnmartyr, beacon of protection to the chosen
of Pelor, gathers dust on a wall in the City of

"Brass, a trophy won by a fire giant in a card game
from a Suutan bloodline that once donned it."

MARISHA: What was that called again?

MATT: Don't worry, I wrote all these down for you
guys.

LAURA: Oh, thank you. I know, I'm like, there's
going to be a test later!

MATT: I know. I got this for you guys. "Cabal's
Ruin, a magic-devouring cloak once used by an

"assassin to eliminate the unscrupulous den of
Druja. It is now worn by a merchant-warrior with a

"missing eye in the walls of Ank'harel. The Spire
of Conflux, a staff born from Melora's very

"breath, was devoured, along with its previous
owner, by a goristro named Yenk in the endless

"maze of the Abyss."

SAM: Let's go there!

MATT: "The Titanstone Knuckles were taken from the
brutalized corpse of their proud owner, now worn

"by a terrible half-giant turned tyrant in
Westruun. I sense you know this, tall one. I can

"taste your fear from here. Whisper, blade forged
from metal pulled from the Far Realm, was a center

"to many a dark ritual. It now lies at the bottom
of the Ozmit Sea, sunken with the lost ship, The

"Shrew, in a storm 300 years ago near an island of
glass.

"Know that all life is connected on an impossibly
small level, beyond the mind's ability to

"understand on your level. Ideas transcend
distance, language. Many share dreams, thoughts,

"inspirations without knowing. The fact that you
are now aware of these, others too may now be

"drawn to the search as well. Beware. Now go. You
have earned the name, you have earned the knowledge.

"The race is on."

And with that, sand begins to erupt from the two
piles of rubble, swirling in a giant whirlwind of

blasted stone and sand, you guys have to cover
your eyes as it begins to completely consume the

vision around you. You see the sphinx back up
towards the top of the platform before the sand

consumes even within 15 feet, ten feet, five feet
of your vision. You lose sight of your friends

around you, and for a second the panic hits you
before the sand comes to a stop and drops to the

ground. Looking around, you stand at the base of
the triangular cavern entrance by the mountain

range where you first entered the temple. And
that's where we'll end tonight's game.

TRAVIS: Fucking shit.

LAURA: That got so much more intense than I ever
thought it was going to.

TRAVIS: I thought it was going to be like a gentle
education, like a gentle ribbing.

LAURA: Yeah, I thought we'd go and talk to this
guy.

LIAM: Hey, we're friends with your girlfriend,
want to give us some stuff?

TRAVIS: Matt, that was--

MATT: Well done, guys!

TRAVIS: A crazy-ass puzzle.

MARISHA: We can look at that list, so I can make
some serious notes?

MATT: Yeah. There's a list for you guys.

TRAVIS: I'll make a copy of it, I'll make a copy
of it.

LAURA: Do we need to go after all of them? We'll
do it; we'll talk about it later.

MARISHA: I think we each need to be outfitted with
something. We need our legendary weapons, you guys.

LAURA: We took the weapon off the ground before he
portaled us out, right, Matt?

MATT: Yes, actually. In which case I will give
this to you as you now have access to its

capabilities.

MARISHA: Fenthras? Is that what it was-- no.

MATT: No, the Mythcarver. It's a legendary
longsword. This incredible silvered blade once

belonged to the White Duke himself, and many more
master bards before him. It resonates with nearby

musical tones. It acts as a plus three longsword,
and the weapon deals an additional 1d6 force

damage upon a hit. Whenever you use your Bardic
Inspiration feature, you gain advantage on attacks

with this weapon until the end of your turn.

TRAVIS: Advantage on attacks?

MATT: So if you were to give somebody-- use your
bonus action before your attack, you would get

advantage on any attacks with the weapon.

LIAM: Percy, that was made for you.

TALIESIN: I know, obviously. I'm so excited.

MATT: And whenever you use your Cutting Words
feature against an enemy, the target also has

disadvantage on its next saving throw.

LAURA: Wow!

TRAVIS: Holy shit.

SAM: Well, I guess I'll have to take it.

TALIESIN: I've got a weird question I'm going to
throw out there. Did you pick your sword back up

before all this mess happened?

TRAVIS: Yep.

SAM: Hey, the White Duke!

MATT: As Grog looks at his feet, the blade that
still laid there before you, tethered to you by

chain, still remains at your feet as you see the
chain amongst the sand.

LAURA: Oh my gosh.

MATT: Still jagged, still extended, still in its
full form. All right. So. Well done, everyone.

We'll pick this up next week for the 50th episode,
so excited.

(cheering)

MATT: Thank you guys for sticking around for this
very long episode.

LAURA: That was long.

MATT: I know it was long, I wanted to try and get
through this before we started the 50th.

MARISHA: Oh my god, it's midnight.

MATT: Yeah, sorry guys. So long. Hope we're cool.

TRAVIS: We're cool.

LIAM: (singing) It's the last midnight.

MATT: All right you guys, well, thank you so much
for watching. Have a good night, and is it

Thursday yet?

LIAM: Yes. Two more minutes.