MATT: Hello everybody! Welcome to tonight's
episode of Critical Role, where a bunch of us

nerdy-ass voice actors sit around and roll dice
and play Dungeons & Dragons.

TRAVIS: Yeah, we do.

MATT: My name is Matthew Mercer. I am the Dungeon
Master of the show. Before we get started, let's

go ahead and run through our announcements for the
evening. First, I wanted to let you guys know that

tonight-- tomorrow, I'm sorry. Tomorrow is the
last day to preorder your Dagger Dagger Dagger

shirt. Is it also the last day to do the Strongjaw
Ale?

LAURA: It is!

MATT: Strongjaw Ale and Dagger Dagger Dagger
shirts.

TRAVIS: Also ale.

ASHLEY: I need them!

MATT: You do need them.

LAURA: You do. Actually, Ashley, I think I got
shirts for you.

MATT: Yeah, we've got some shirts held for you.

SAM: Extra large!

TALIESIN: But if you're not Ashley, you'd better
get yourself a shirt.

MATT: Yep. So you have until tomorrow to get
those, so go to the Geek and Sundry store to

preorder if you're interested. Yay! Next up, a
reminder, me and Marisha are flying out bright and

early tomorrow morning to Pittsburgh for Tekko!
We're going to be doing awesome panels on

voiceover and gaming and all points nerdy on the
Internet in between, as well as signings and

autographs and all that fun stuff. So if you're in
the area and you want to find a place that's warm,

we'll be there in the convention, so hopefully
we'll see you guys over the weekend.

MARISHA: And I went to college there, so I'm going
to be finding my old homies and getting drunk.

TALIESIN: Do you have a college sweater that just
says "college"? You could really use one.

MARISHA: I went to the performing arts school, and
we did make football t-shirts, because we thought

it was funny, as our performing arts shirts.

TALIESIN: That sounds like a performing arts
joke.

MARISHA: Yeah.

SAM: Fascinating.

MATT: Indeed.

MARISHA: Cool story, bro.

MATT: Next up, I get to announce, coming up as
part of a celebration for International Tabletop

Day and a sponsorship by Pathfinder and
Syrinscape, who have been fantastic in getting

this program for me in this game as well, we're
going to be doing an event called "Critical Role

One Shot" on April 18th, Monday, at 7 to 10 PM.
We're going to be taking over Ivan's No Survivors

slot that evening to run a Pathfinder one-shot
that I'll be running. However, Ivan will actually

be playing as a player in that one.

ALL: What?

MATT: I know! What, what? (gunshot) Mind blown.
Destroyed. Ivan will be playing. We also will have

guesting players of Taliesin and Marisha in that
game as well, and we have two special guests that

evening who will be playing with us: the
illustrious Ashly Burch will be joining us for the

evening, and the wonderfully talented Phil Lamarr
as well.

SAM: Wait, what? I didn't know that.

MATT: Yeah! So it's going to be a fun night
playing Pathfinder.

LAURA: When is that, again?

MATT: That is April 18th, Monday at 7 PM, Pacific
Time.

TRAVIS: Aren't taxes due that day?

MATT: When you're done with your taxes, this is a
great way to celebrate.

MARISHA: A great way to celebrate. I'll be filing
an extension, like everybody else.

MATT: It'll be a fun event, we've got some cool
surprises set up for the story, and I'm excited

about it, so come and join us 7 PM Pacific,
Monday, April 18th for Critical Role One Shot.

Also, those of you out there who are members of
the Nerd Block, or are looking to be, this

upcoming, now live, Nerd Block that is going out
has a little surprise in there, a little artistic

surprise for fans of Critical Role.

SAM: Oh? What is it?

MATT: They'll have to see.

SAM: Oh, a tiny poop. I'm in.

LAURA: A teeny-tiny poop, just from Sam.

MATT: But yeah, those of you out there who want to
check it out, we have a fun little insert there in

the box. You get to see if you grab one, so check
it out and see if it's to your liking. Liam, did

you want to talk about--?

LIAM: Oh, yeah, hey! You know my love for Wyrmwood
Gaming and their boxes. We have these beautiful

ones. Lift up a Wyrmwood box.

LAURA: Oh! Oh my goodness.

LIAM: They make great, beautiful boxes. They have
all kinds of woods to hold your dice in, and if

you use the code "critrole," you will get free
shipping. But also, today, I would like to let you

all know that Wyrmwood Gaming has a kickstarter
for their Sentinel box. I'm sure I'm forgetting

the actual name, but it's a beautiful box. It's
good for D&D, it's good for Magic: The Gathering,

and it holds cards, it holds dice, there's a
Bluetooth in it so that if you lose it, you can

find it.

TRAVIS: Satellites can see it?

LAURA: I wish we had the box in front of us, but
go look it up, it's got this box on the top, and

then it separates on the bottom and you can put
your dice in the bottom.

LIAM: It's called the Sentinel deck box. There's
also a version of it called the Vox Machina, which

is a premium item, and it's gorgeous.

TRAVIS: Premium, premium, premium.

LIAM: Premium. But tossing this out, too, if you
guys want any of the other Sentinel deck boxes and

you want to get the logo etched onto it, that's
also an option. I don't know if it's on the site

or not, but it will be.

MARISHA: It's an off-the-menu item.

LAURA: Yeah. Check it out!

LIAM: 'Twill be there. Gorgeous box.

ASHLEY: That sounds like something Gilmore would
sell.

MATT: There you go. Oh, he would. Don't worry. He
would be happy to sell that.

SAM: And because of the Bluetooth feature, the NSA
will track your every roll.

MARISHA: You're now on the Homeland Security
list.

MATT: All right. Do we have anything else you guys
wanted to announce before we get started?

TRAVIS: That fucking Rogue One trailer! Holy
shit!

TALIESIN: I haven't seen it yet!

TRAVIS: All right. No words. No words. No words!

SAM: Is it like Batman vs. Superman good?

TALIESIN: Don't set expectations you can't match.

LAURA: Did you see it, Ashley?

ASHLEY: Yes! Gimme!

TRAVIS: Yeah. All the things.

MATT: I'm sure it's cool. I haven't seen it yet.

TRAVIS: Oh, on the break! On the break, on the
break.

LAURA: Yeah, we'll watch it on the break.

MATT: I haven't had a chance, I've been busy
working on this shit for you guys!

TRAVIS: What, you don't just make this stuff up as
you go?

MATT: (mock weeping) No, I have to prepare.

TALIESIN: It's imaginary, how could it be? You
just flow with it. Right?

MARISHA: Oh, I thought this was scripted.

LAURA: I've been in rehearsal all day for this.

SAM: Hey, Wyrmwood crashed.

LIAM: Wyrmwood crashed? Sorry, Wyrmwood. Or you're
welcome, Wyrmwood.

TALIESIN: I'm Instagramming my Wyrmwood box right
now, too.

TRAVIS: Well done. Well done, legion.

SAM: Colbert Nation.

LIAM: I should say, the etching is a new
development, so if that's not happening today,

it'll be there tomorrow-ish.

MARISHA: Yeah, so don't yell at them. Don't be
like, "Bullshit!"

TRAVIS: It's either going to be there tomorrow or
very soon.

LAURA: Because we literally got an email about it
as we were starting.

MATT: Cool. All right.

TRAVIS: Now we go to our deaths.

MATT: Now, we bring it back. I will ask if we
could turn that speaker down a little bit. A

little bit more. That's good. Great. All right,
guys. Let's plug in to the world of Exandria, as

we begin tonight's episode of Critical Role. So,
last we left off, the adventuring party of Vox

Machina, traversing the lands in search of lost
artifacts of wars of old, referred to as the

Vestiges of Divergence, in hopes of eventually
tearing down and defeating a conclave of chromatic

dragons called the Chroma Conclave that have
destroyed society all across the continent of

Tal'Dorei and beyond, you returned to the
outskirts of a city named Westruun that was very

important in your early adventures, to find it,
from a distance, partially destroyed by the dragon

attack but a couple weeks before, and since taken
over by what seems to be the remnants, now

swelling in power and size, of Grog's old herd of
wandering barbarians and various savages. Having

taken the city by force and ruling it with an iron
hand, it was also deemed not the right time to

face this foe, and as such the party continued
venturing southward in the direction of the

Frostweald, where somewhere at the base of the
Stormpeak Mountains, the mate of Osysa, the

gynosphinx you had met in Vasselheim-- her mate
resides somewhere in this vicinity. That's all the

information you have to go on as you head down
towards the frozen forest. So. That's where we

begin. As you guys continue pushing south from
Westruun, seeing the distant pillars of dark smoke

that slowly drift into the atmosphere disappear as
the town itself vanishes over the horizon, you

continue to push southward through the open grass
fields. You continue traveling for the better part

of a day, eventually coming up along the side of
the Silvercut Channel, which is the river that

comes down and cuts through near Kraghammer to the
west of Westruun. It goes past Kymal and then

eventually heads down in this direction, towards
the Foramere Basin. You guys, travelling fairly

quickly, as you're in your mist forms, which is
making up a lot of the normal travel time you

would have to worry about here, by the time the
sun finally begins to set across the mountains--

pay attention, please.

SAM: Yes!

MATT: Sorry.

LIAM: It's another beholder!

MATT: I've got plenty of things I could throw in
here if you guys aren't paying attention!

TALIESIN: That's not funny.

MATT: No, it's really funny for me. As you guys
continue pushing southward, as the sun slowly

begins to set in the distance, you glance over
towards the Foramere Basin. You can see, just over

to the right, the city of Kymal, which has lights
glimmering in the far distance. But what you see

by the basin itself is this large lake that is
centered in this region just north of the

Frostweald. You can see where the two main rivers
diverge before heading southward towards the

ocean. There's a smattering of various tents that
are clustered right towards the side of the

riverbank and the edge of the lake itself. As you
continue coasting overhead in your mist forms, you

see small trails of smoke from smoldering
campfires, clusters of people and families

wandering the shore in this small group. You
continue going forward?

SAM: I mean, we should check it out.

LAURA: Yeah.

MATT: You don't have to, you can keep going.

SAM: It's a tent city?

MATT: It looks like it, yeah.

LAURA: They're refugees, probably.

SAM: Hundreds, thousands?

MATT: There's probably a few dozen, close to maybe
50, 60.

MARISHA: What do the tents look like? Do they look
like military encampment tents, or refugee tents?

MATT: You can't really tell from this distance,
especially as the light is beginning to slowly

diminish.

TRAVIS: Can we float closer?

LAURA: We float down, we float down.

SAM: Oh, are we still mists?

LAURA: Yeah.

SAM: Oh my God.

TRAVIS: That whole description, and yes, we're
still mists.

MATT: As you coast down closer, you get a better
look, and yeah, there are about 50, 60 or so

people on the outside. You don't have an idea of
how many are inside the tents. Even more, most

likely. But these tents are fairly ramshackle,
barely standing, the people look destitute. They

look like they're holding onto survival here on
the outside of the city. You see a few boats that

are going in and out on the shore, probably
fishermen. There are a few bonfires that are now

starting to kick up as the night's cold begins to
swell in. It looks like this is a fairly

"thriving," a fairly functional refugee camp.

TRAVIS: Well, those that give a fuck, speak up.

LAURA: We can't, we're in mist form.

TRAVIS: Then like (hissing) in a direction.

LAURA: (hissing) I think we should help them.
Maybe we can --

TALIESIN: (buzzing fart sound)

SAM: Good point.

LAURA: Maybe we can send them back to Whitestone.

TALIESIN: Maybe, if we could talk, which we can't
right now.

LAURA: I float down. Into the trees, outside of
the camp.

TALIESIN: I follow.

MATT: Okay. These are open grasslands, there
aren't a lot of trees, and they're spotted around.

There are a few rock formations and small hills,
you might be able to get out of sight.

LAURA: Around there.

MATT: So you coast around there and you go back
into your physical form. The rest of you follow?

TRAVIS: Tall grass? Low grass?

MATT: It's probably thigh-length.

LIAM: Following.

TRAVIS: Yeah, we go.

MATT: For you, close to the knee.

LAURA: Near the rocks, so that we're in
camouflage.

MATT: So you guys set down maybe 300 feet from the
outside of the nearest part of the camp,

reconstitute into your physical forms. At this
point, the sun has now disappeared over the

horizon and the blues have now gone to orange, to
purple, and you can see in the distance the

darkness of night is starting to crest over the
sky. What do you want to do?

TRAVIS: What are we stopped for? Are we here?

LAURA: No, it looks like a refugee camp, Grog.

TALIESIN: They may have information.

LAURA: People that escaped from Westruun,
potentially.

TRAVIS: Oh, really?

LAURA: Yeah. I mean, it's a large group of people,
I'm assuming they came from a city of some sort.

TRAVIS: Hey, Scanlan.

SAM: Oi.

TRAVIS: If we go over there and it gets a little
hairy, you've still got old magic door, right?

SAM: Old magic doll?

TRAVIS: Hugh Hefner house!

SAM: Oh, yeah, magic door. Yes.

TRAVIS: Magic doll if you have it, too, for later,
but yeah.

SAM: I mean, I have a little Pike figurine that I
keep with me.

TALIESIN: Oh.

SAM: What, no, it's a keepsake!

TRAVIS: Yeah, I'm sure it is.

SAM: Why is everything I say creepy?

LIAM: I don't know, why is it?

LAURA: Maybe we should pop them back to Whitestone. I
feel like it might be good, if we find out if

they're hurting. That's where we're putting our
survivors.

LIAM: They look like they're hurting.

MARISHA: I couldn't help with that today.

LAURA: Oh. We could rest overnight, and you could
pop them in in the morning?

MARISHA: What time is it?

LIAM: It's late. Sun's gone down.

TRAVIS: Super late. Yeah, and if they're from
Westruun--

LAURA: Are you out of all your-- oh, mist form.

MARISHA: Mist form got us here.

TALIESIN: It's worth talking to them at the very
least.

TRAVIS: Yeah, Pike and I are from Westruun. If
they're of that village, or that city, I'd like to

make sure they're all right.

MARISHA: Maybe they're friends.

LAURA: Maybe we'd find Pike's grandfather.

TRAVIS: Grandfather Wilhelm.

LAURA: Percy, would Whitestone be able to sustain
this many more people?

TALIESIN: I think at some point we're going to
have to have that conversation, but for now I

think we'll probably be all right.

TRAVIS: Yeah!

LAURA: All right.

TRAVIS: You're good for it. You're rich.

TALIESIN: For now.

LIAM: Here's an idea. Scanlan, you said
that a lot of people can go into your house, yeah?

SAM: I can fit many people into my hole.

LIAM: Could you-- (laughs)

MARISHA: I wonder why everything he says is
creepy.

LIAM: Could you invite the folk in, and then they
live in your hole for a little while, and then

when we get to Whitestone, you open your hole and
out they come?

SAM: No, not quite.

MARISHA: That's some cartel shit right there.

TRAVIS: Yeah. We become "Vox Machina: Coyotes."

LIAM: Scanlan is the mule.

SAM: No, the house is mainly for us and a few
guests, for one night at a time.

LAURA: You can't, like, leave them there.

LIAM: Didn't you say 100 people, the other day?

SAM: 100 servants are in there. I don't quite-- I
haven't jammed people in there. I don't know how

many it can totally hold.

MARISHA: You mean, you've never thrown a party?

MATT: Go ahead and roll an intelligence check

SAM: First roll of the night: Natural 20!

(cheering)

SAM: Wasted it on an intelligence check.

(laughter)

TRAVIS: Smile upon us, dice gods!

MATT: Though the magic is new to you, you've spent
in your first time casting it and a large part of

the evening, especially since you realized you
weren't going to have as fun a night as you

thought, after the broom had been taken and Vex
left your room, learning the intricacies of the

spell itself and the pocket dimension that is
created. You can fit quite a few people in there.

However, it is stationary in its entrance and exit
and then once the spell comes to completion after

a 24-hour period, it expels anyone and anything
that was brought into it, on the spot where it was

originally cast.

LIAM: I see.

LAURA: Oh.

TRAVIS: Like gently, or like--

SAM: Like a flush.

TRAVIS: Like (sweetly) "Please leave." or like
(angry) "Get the fuck out!"

LIAM: Is that a yes or a no?

SAM: It's not a transporting-type spell. It is a
temporary shelter, at best.

LIAM: You just don't want to bring them in.

SAM: I have a cold, cold heart.

(laughter)

SAM: Listen, I'll consider taking the females in.

TRAVIS: That is very noble of you.

LAURA: So noble, Scanlan.

TRAVIS: I will join him in this charity.

LAURA: Oh, yes.

MARISHA: Well, all right, why don't we just walk
around and talk to these people? Maybe they're not

even interested in being transported. Let's just
find some citizens around.

LAURA: Should we make sure they're actually
innocent, nice people?

MARISHA: We should probably do that as well, not
like a band of thieves. Bandits.

LAURA: Stealth ahead.

TRAVIS: That could be fun.

LAURA: Can I sneak ahead and just listen to them?

SAM: Yes, sneaking up on them will definitely put
them on our side.

LAURA: Hey, like 100 yards out. I just want to
hear what they're saying.

SAM: All right, all right.

LIAM: She can read lips so she doesn't even get
that close.

LAURA: It's pretty dark, though. But I do have
good darkvision.

MATT: This is true. As the night takes over, it's
still quite a distance to be able to make out a

lot of detail. You'd probably have to get closer.
But you're going alone?

TRAVIS: No, twins.

MATT: Twins going together?

LAURA: Yeah.

MATT: Why don't you both roll a stealth check?

LIAM: Oh, I guess I'm going then.

TALIESIN: I'm keeping an eye also, to see if
anything-- From a great distance, I'm just keeping

an eye out.

LAURA: We're in the woods, right?

MATT: No. You are in the plains.

SAM: There are no woods, tall grasses

LAURA: Just kidding, we're in the grasslands.

LIAM: Grass, grass. 32.

TRAVIS: I'll roll this big bastard.

TALIESIN: White manna, not green manna.

LAURA: 18.

MATT: All right.

SAM: I'm hiding in a tree.

MATT: There's no-- (annoyed hmm)

LAURA: There's no--

(laughter)

TRAVIS: "There's no (grumbles)"

SAM: The grass to me is like a tree

MATT: This is true, actually. It's more of a rose
bush. So as you guys push forward, pushing and

stalking through the grass, you come to about 40,
50 feet outside. And there's a little bit of

chatter, it's hard to make out at this distance
but the people seem to, not necessarily be jovial.

Almost like they've accepted the circumstances and
are just surviving it for the time being. There

are a few individuals that are armed, though the
armor itself seems patchwork, or you know, not the

best or most trained of individuals currently
guarding this group of survivors. But there are

patrols going around, people keeping a close look,
there are torches being lit now as people begin

walking--

LAURA: Do we see anyone that we recognize from
Westruun?

MATT: Not from this distance.

LAURA: No.

MATT: With your darkvision you can make out the
outline of the very, very nearest individuals, the

guards in particular. But at this distance, nobody
catches your eye that you'd be able to make out

much detail on, that you would recognize.

LIAM: Can we just sit for five or ten minutes?

LAURA: Well, the guards are coming through with
torches, I don't want them to find us and think

we're spies.

LIAM: But we are.

LAURA: Yeah, but I don't want them to think that.

LIAM: But we are.

LAURA: Yeah. I think you can stay 'cause you're
more hidden than I am. I'm going to go back to the

group.

LIAM: All right.

LAURA: I feel like they're going to see me.

LIAM: All right.

MATT: (chuckling) You don't know that. As far as
you know, you're so hidden.

LAURA: "I'm so hidden." Shit.

TRAVIS: Come on.

LAURA: All right, all right, all right. Just a
second.

LIAM: I'm just going to stay here for a couple of
minutes longer. Wait, you said they were coming

our direction or they're just-- ?

MATT: No, they're just wandering. Just patrolling

LAURA: Oh all right.

LIAM: You're paranoid!

LAURA: Okay, fine fine fine fine.

LIAM: Let me listen for a bit.

MATT: Okay. I'll have you both roll perception
checks, if you could.

LIAM: All right. 22.

LAURA: 23.

MATT: Okay. You two, at about the same time, focus
best you can. You have to scoot a little bit

closer once the guard that's nearest to you passes
by. You wait for your moment, scoot up close, get

by one of the tents, and look off to the side.
There are a few folks that catch your attention a

little bit. There's one that was Elowen
Brist, who was the mother of the first child that

went missing in Westruun. You see her, with her
daughter who's a little bit older now that you

guys helped save her.

MARISHA: Oh my god.

LIAM: All these throwbacks are blowing my mind.

MATT: A little dirty but alive. They wander off.
You scan through the crowd, keeping an eye out for

the guard as well. No one really catches your
attention. You see one older gentleman that walks

by, 60s, not completely withered away. But, you
know, older but carries himself with much

importance. Very expensive clothing, reds and
blues. It seems like he's attempting to hold a

social station, even though in his current
location, society has crumbled. He doesn't really

catch your attention as anyone you recognize, but
the person to the left of him is a very

familiar-looking elven man, with long brown hair
slicked over and behind his ears. This is Drez

Vina, who originally contacted you when you
arrived in Westruun.

LAURA: Holy-- (whispers) That's Drez Vina!

LIAM: Yeah, yeah.

MATT: He's looking a little rough, too. This has
not been the kindest time to any of these people.

LAURA: Well, should we go back to the group or tell
them to come on in?

LIAM: Do we have to go back to tell them to come
on in?

LAURA: We have earrings.

LIAM: Well, yeah, that's true

LAURA: (whispering) Hey, you guys.

TRAVIS: What?

SAM: What, what what what what?

LAURA: You guys! Hey Percy, pay attention.

TALIESIN: Oh, yeah, yes. Hello. What?

LAURA: Hey, guess who I'm looking at right now?

TALIESIN: Your brother.

LAURA: Well--

SAM: God, you're so good at that.

LAURA: Drez fucking Vina

MARISHA: (gasps) Drez!

SAM: Wait, remind us, who-- ?

LAURA: Drez Vina was that dude that sent us on our
very first mission together, you guys.

TALIESIN: Ooh.

MARISHA: Yeah! He protected us, he's a magic
user.

SAM: Oh. I was mostly drunk that time.

LAURA: Yeah, Percy you weren't there yet.

TALIESIN: Oh, at the Winter's Crest festival, I
remember.

MATT: (laughing) That's not him at all.

LIAM: No. He was-- Drez Vina.

TRAVIS: "That's not it at all." (chuckles)

LAURA: Percy, you weren't there--

MATT: That's Abjurist Noja.

MARISHA and TALIESIN (in unison): Oh. Abjurist
Noja.

LIAM: Drez Vina was the dick. Drez Vina's a dick.

LAURA: Drez Vina's the guy. Drez Vina was the
asshole.

SAM: Doesn't he work for someone else?

MATT: He had a Master.

MARISHA: Wait, was he the guy that we stole from,
kind of?

LAURA: Hey, keep it down. I don't know
who all can hear over these earrings!

TRAVIS: Oh, did he have the tower with the magical
items?

MATT: Here, I should step in here and clarify--

(laughter)

MARISHA: It's been like three years.

LIAM: This was only three years ago.

MATT: No, I know. Drez Vina came to you under the
pretense that he was working for an individual

called the Master, he called him his Master, who
was interested in hiring your services. Originally

sent you into the mage tower of Eskil Ryndarien,
the Realmseer, to steal the brass box with the

pearl top. However, you did not steal it and
instead you ended up befriending the Archmage.

TRAVIS: He let us pick something.

MATT: Yes, he let you pick something from his
array of items.

SAM: That's right!

MATT: Drez then found you guys at your inn, a
number of weeks later. And Drez was very unhappy

that you both didn't return with the item,
and used a very powerful and expensive object that

was part of this endeavor, and never paid it back.
So, to pay back your debt, he sent you guys to the

Druid Barrow where you had to retrieve this
cortex, this magical gem that was embedded in the

center of--

MARISHA: And that was where we fought the golem!

MATT: Yep. Where you fought the golem. And
you retrieved the cortex successfully, and that's

the last you've seen of him.

LAURA: See? He likes us now! We totally helped
him.

SAM: But he has magical items--

LAURA: Well, maybe not anymore.

SAM: Had. Well, we should--

LIAM: What was, DM, can you remind me the name of
the mother that we spoke to all that time ago?

LAURA: The one you just mentioned.

MATT: Elowen.

LIAM: Elowen? Elowen. I'd rather go talk to her.

MATT: I'm pretty sure, let me check my notes.
Yeah, Elowen. Elowen Brist.

LAURA: Do you guys want to just come on in?

SAM: Yes, let's go in.

TALIESIN: I don't see what the harm is.

TRAVIS: We go in.

LAURA: Make a nice, pleasant chattering-- maybe
you should sing, Scanlan, as you

approach so that people know we're nice

SAM: I would love to sing. Oh. Right now?
(singing) Sunny days, chasing the dragons away, On

our way to where the air is clean, Can you tell me
how to kill, How to kill some drag-eens?

MATT: Go ahead and roll a performance check.

SAM: Performance check.

MATT: Yes.

LAURA: What is it? What is it?

SAM: It fell off the table. And it is-- a six. But
plus 13.

MATT: Okay.

SAM: Wait-- plus 14.

MATT: Plus 14? Okay. Okay, so, as you guys begin
strolling up, immediately you see torches (fire sounds).

LIAM: Hands up. No weapons.

MATT: You see guards come forward, two of them
with nocked crossbows. "Who goes there?

LAURA: Hey, you guys!

MATT: And they don't really recognize-- they're
all looking at this source of singing.

Crossbows--

SAM: (singing) It's a magic carpet ride. Except we
burned our magic carpet so we can't--

(laughter)

MATT: The guards slowly drop their crossbows.
"What's your business?"

TRAVIS: Hey, hey, that's not necessary. We're
friends.

MATT: "We've already got enough mouths to feed.
Move along."

TRAVIS: No, we're not looking for food. We're here
to provide aid if we can, if it's in need, if people

need our help.

MATT: Make a persuasion check.

TRAVIS: Oh, shit.

SAM: Persuasion? You?

LAURA: Grog--

TRAVIS: Ten.

MATT: While their crossbows are notched, they
haven't lowered them completely, they're still on

guard and still nervous of your approach.

LIAM: We also think there's a woman with you
named Elowen. She knows us. We'd like to speak to

her. We'll wait here.

MATT: One of them glances over at the other one.
One of the guards who was paying attention walks

away and they all raise their crossbows again and
just train them on you guys for the next few

minutes.

TRAVIS: I mean, it's really not necessary. Even if
you were to loose those, it would just be a

tickle. I mean, trust me, we come from Westruun,
all right?

LAURA: Don't you remember us? In Westruun?

TRAVIS: Yeah. Winter's Crest festival?

LAURA: Vox Machina?

TRAVIS: Grog?

Pike? Wilhelm?

MATT: One of the guards takes a moment and gives
you an eye and just goes--

"I remember seeing you around town. You
were-- Oh man, jeez, it's good to see you."

TRAVIS: Right? I'm as psyched about all this--

MATT: "Sorry if I gave you any trouble back in the
day. I was young and stupid."

SAM: Why don't you all lower your crossbows, for a
second?

MATT: "I mean no offense, but we're very guarded
with your kind at the moment."

TRAVIS: (inhales) Right. Yeah, yeah,
understandable. Right. We just actually came from

Westruun. It seems to be a bit occupied at the
moment.

MARISHA: And he's with us. So-- He's not with
them.

LAURA. He's different than the other guys, see? He's got
a beard.

TRAVIS: No, I, listen. It came about my own. I
just got the genetics for it.

(stage-whispers) Would you shut up?

MATT: At which point the guard that had
left comes back with Elowen. She walks up with her

tightly braided reddish hair with a little bit of
grey on the sides, that probably has come since the

last time you've seen her and the experience of
having her child gone so long. It's taken a

physical toll on her. But there is a smile on her
face. Now she looks over and focuses her eyes--

LIAM: Elowen!

MATT: "That's them! That's them! Let them in, let
them in." And she runs forward immediately and

gives a big hug to you, Vex.

LAURA: Oh.

MATT: And starts moving through, and, you know,
just this big smile and surprise. And you can see

her little boy Simon come up to the side.

ALL: Oh! Simon!

MATT: Simon, who last time you saw, you were
retrieving him from the pocket dimension that the

Dread Emperor had called his domain. At which
point, there's a few quick pleasantries, as she

says hello again. She says: "Please, please come
in. Please. It's fine. They're trustworthy." And

the guards nod. And they follow behind, not in an
aggressive way but just in a being-careful kind of

way. So you have two people, two armed individuals
flanking you the entire walk that you guys are

doing, but it's at ease.

MARISHA: Keyleth goes up to Simon.

MATT: "Hi!"

MARISHA: How old are you now?

MATT: "This many-- " He puts up nine fingers.

MARISHA: You've grown up so well.

MATT: "Thank you."

MARISHA: And I just give him a big hug.

MATT: He freezes up. He's gotten a little shy at the
interaction.

LIAM: I kneel down next to him and I say: do you
want to see something cool? Look at this. And I

take off the serpent belt. And-- (snake hisses)

SAM: Oh, Jesus.

LIAM: And I put him around my neck. I named him
after you.

(laughter)

MATT: "Really?"

LIAM: He's my pet. Do you want to, he's gentle as
a lamb. Do you want to tickle his neck?

MATT: "Yes."

(laughter)

LIAM: Yeah. Here, you hold him. I set it down
around his neck. Don't worry. Nothing's going to

happen. It's fine.

MATT: He locks up again. Snakes and women have the
same reaction to this poor little boy.

LIAM: Simon, fart in his ear. Go ahead and fart in
his ear.

MATT: He gives you a stern look. And the snake
just wraps around him for a second.

MARISHA: Keyleth does a little wind gust and goes
(poof).

MATT: He goes (giggles) and starts laughing.
Reaches up and rubs his ear from the tickle.

LIAM: It's good to see you again, kiddo. Come
here, Simon Jr. I'll put him back, now.

MATT: He has a big smile on his face now. "That's
so cool."

LAURA: While that was happening, I pulled
aside his mother. Is this everyone that made it

out of Westruun?

MATT: (sighs) "Well, we're one group. Many went to
Kymal, but they're at capacity now, and based on

"many of the farming fields that were destroyed or
burned by the dragon ransacking, there's only so

"much food to go around, so they had to turn us
away. But there were some small farming

"communities along the river that were kind enough
to take us in and we're... we're getting by."

LAURA: But you're searching for a home?

MATT: "Hoping to find out if anything takes care
of the problems in Westruun. You should probably

"talk to Cornelius. I don't know the details of
everything happening."

LAURA: Cornelius. Is he the man I saw in the finer
robes?

MATT: "No, no. Cornelius is rather-- he's not very
well-dressed. He--" And she scratches her head.

"He used to be the bookbinder in Westruun but when
everything fell apart, he rose up and took the

"lead in keeping everyone safe and so, I mean, he
won't say it, but we kind of look to him as a

"leader for now."

LAURA: Did he work in the Cobalt Reserve?

MATT: "I think he did business with them, but I
don't think he worked directly with."

LAURA: Oh, okay.

MATT: "Here. Let me take you."

LAURA: Oh, wonderful.

MATT: She walks over and, as you guys are
talking to Simon, she scoops Simon up and pulls him

to her side and gives you guys a smile of
acknowledgement. "Come," and leads you guys--

LAURA: We're meeting Cornelius.

SAM: Okay.

TRAVIS: (softly) Who's Cornelius?

LAURA: He's a bookbinder.

TRAVIS: Never heard of him.

MATT: You guys are led through. Most of the folks
stop what they're doing and pay attention. Some

look wary and guarded. Others, you see their faces
brighten up as they begin to connect the dots

between the whispers they've heard of Vox Machina
throughout the landscape and the individuals

walking through. Most everyone seems to have a
somewhat visceral emotional reaction once Grog passes by. It

does catch you. You know, as a person who has
always stuck out against the society as it was,

and you've worked hard to a degree to get some
respect, especially in that city. Having so many

eyes on you, and you can feel the, while unearned
from your standpoint, the heaps of hatred that are

thrust upon you by how you look right now is
uncomfortable. Eventually, the guards and Elowen

bring you guys up to a central tent around what
looks like a larger bonfire in the center where a

lot of people are starting to bring their big nets
of fish over and starting to divvy it out and set

up small cooking arrangements so that people for
the evening can have their dinner. She walks up to

the edge of tent, speaks to one of the guards,
mentions you guys and your wanting to talk to

Cornelius. The guard leans in, shouts off to the
side, "Cornelius, you've got some visitors. Is

"that okay?" A voice muffles through, "That's fine.
Go ahead and let them in." The guard pulls open

the tent, and at this point Elowen says, "I'm
going to go get my son some food. If you need

"anything, just ask around."

LIAM: We'll see you again.

MATT: "Thank you guys, again." She rubs Simon's
head and walks off. And as she walks off with him, he keeps

looking over his shoulder at you the whole time,
with a big smile on his face. You guys walk into

the tent, and it smells like a tent that's been
lived in for a couple weeks. The interior's not

fancy by any means. It's blankets and burlap, and
whatever functions to guard against the relatively

muddy shores of the river. And you get a sense
that most places here, just because of the

landscape and how close it is to the river, mud is
tracked everywhere. So it's mostly caked ground.

There is a small cot on the far edge and there is
a table set up and some elements of dried fish

that are just being pulled from a sack on the
side. And there are two guards, and you can see

what appears to be Cornelius coming to greet you,
as you enter. A man in his mid-40's, blondish hair

with a scruffy, unkempt beard. You get the sense
that he's a working man. His hands look calloused.

He's got a layer of just dirt and grime across his
brow that tells you he's definitely one who gets

in the thick of it when it's needed. And you can
see why in this circumstance people put trust into

a person that can rise up amongst all the chaos
from simple means and prove themselves to want to

help everybody. And in the moment he smiles, you
immediately see also why people follow him. He's

got this bright, toothy, white smile, and he puts
his hand out immediately to each of you. "Pleasure

"to meet you. I'm Cornelius."

LAURA: Vex'ahlia.

MATT: "So, I'm told that you all are here to talk
to me? What's this about?"

SAM: We know that you've been driven out of your
homes by an attack of dragon or dragons. How many

have menaced your city?

MATT: "Well, counts all say that we have upwards
of three dragons that came through here and tore

"into this city and-- They were gone for a while,
and we'd hoped they weren't going to return, but

"that's when--" He kinda looks over to you, Grog.
"That's when the savages came in and took what was

"left. And I mean no offense to that. I recognize
you; I've seen you around the town before. You

"seem like you're not like your ilk."

TRAVIS: No. No, I'm sorry, I don't know who you
are.

MATT: "That's okay. No one really knows who I am
and I want to keep it that way, when all this

"blows over."

TRAVIS: Understandable.

MATT: "Don't like all the attention."

TALIESIN: How long have you been nomadic for?

MATT: "We're going into our second week now, I
think. We sent a few of our most able-bodied up

"north in hopes of trying to figure out if the city
was safe to return to, and, well, only a few made

"it back, and those that did said it was a
bloodbath."

LAURA: It's quite dangerous there right now.

MATT: "Yeah."

TRAVIS: How many do you have here, in your
encampment with you?

MATT: "Let's see." He kind of takes a moment to
think and does couple marks on the dirt in front

of him to do a count. You can see he's not a very
numbers-guided person.

TRAVIS: I like him.

(laughter)

MATT: "I'd say we got probably about close to 60,
70 people left. We used to have more. Then we lost

"the scouting parties up north and, well, these
past four days we've had a few of these orcish

"fuckers been raiding the outskirts of our camp
every night and taking goods, people--"

MARISHA: What's your current destination?

MATT: "Hah, we got none. We're just staying here
and staying alive."

MARISHA: And what made you camp out here?

MATT: "Fish, mainly. I mean, all the farming
grounds are destroyed or they're being guarded

"currently, and there's no space for us in Kymal.
We can keep going east, but--"

TRAVIS: If I could be selfish for a moment. Have
you seen Wilhand? Pike, Pike Trickfoot. Her

grandfather.

LAURA: A small, older gnome?

MATT: "We got a few older gnomes from the city. I
don't think we have any among us though, no."

TRAVIS: Fine. Thought I'd ask.

LIAM: If we could help you relocate quite a ways
away, would you be open to that?

MATT: "How do you mean?"

LAURA: There's a city. A lot of the refugees from
other cities that have been destroyed by the

dragons are finding their way there and--

MARISHA: Percy actually has family who's in charge
there.

LAURA: We could give you safe passage.

TALIESIN: Possibly find you someplace to work.

LAURA: Very quick, safe passage.

MARISHA: Can they account for 70 extra people in
Whitestone?

TALIESIN: We lost a lot during the attack with the
Briarwoods.

MARISHA: Right.

TALIESIN: There's room, but there's only-- We can
maybe make room for a few more.

LAURA: There's farmland, there are some empty
buildings.

MATT: "I appreciate the offer, and--"

MARISHA: It hasn't been touched by dragons yet.

MATT: "Hah. 'Yet.'"

MARISHA: Yet.

MATT: "I tell you what. We greatly appreciate the
offer, and we're liable to take you up on that at

"some point in the near future. But right now, we
have too many of our people that are unaccounted

"for to the south. We got a couple scouting groups
who're trying to find out where these orcs are,

"where they've taken them. See if we can retrieve
our own before we go ahead and find a new place to live."

SAM: How many are missing right now?

MATT: "Well, we lost 11 in the last few nights of
exchange, to blade, and we've lost about nine to

"the actual bands themselves, so. There's nine
unaccounted for. We're hoping--"

SAM: If we found them, would you be more likely to
take your people to somewhere safe?

MARISHA: And what is necessarily stopping you from
at least sending a handful of women and children

ahead? Families that don't need to be nomadic.

MATT: "Do you have the means to keep them safe for
that kind of travel? That's a long way, up to

"Whitestone. We don't have the guards to keep them
up on that."

LAURA: We have very safe means of travel.

TALIESIN: A shortcut, one would say.

MARISHA: They'd be there in an instant.

MATT: "I don't know anything about any of that
weird magic stuff, but you seem like a reliable group."

LIAM: You can tell we're a motley bunch of
assholes. We've seen shit and we've done shit and

we can do shit.

MATT: "Ain't that the truth. Well--"

TALIESIN: We'd also like to talk to you, perhaps,
to see if you've seen some shit. We're actually

looking for something out here.

LAURA: Oh.

LIAM: Are we?

TALIESIN: We are. Well, you've been travelling,
we're looking for a creature who may have what we

need to help defeat these dragons.

LAURA: Possibly a bit deeper into the Frostweald.

MATT: "Into the Frostweald?"

TALIESIN: Yes.

MATT: "That's where we're thinking our scouts are
saying these orcs are holed up, anyway."

LAURA: Really?

TALIESIN: That's useful.

MATT: "At least, that's where we've been sending
our folk. And follow them out there. Only one

"group went in after them and they never came back,
so--"

MARISHA: No one's returned who's come back?

MATT: "Oh, we've gotten one group that came back.
That's how we know they're there. But they were

"just a scouting party. They got to the outskirts
and came back."

MARISHA: Can we speak to them?

MATT: "I think they're out right now, actually.
Going to get more information. Sorry."

TALIESIN: Well, that works out well, then. We can
go up that direction, perhaps take care of this

problem, possibly.

LAURA: Yes.

TALIESIN: It's on the way.

TRAVIS: I wouldn't mind a good stretch.

LAURA: Kill some orc.

TALIESIN: I could use some breathing.

MARISHA: Do you know your way around the
Frostweald at all?

MATT: "Can't say I do. But I do have some stake in
this personally, if you don't mind me asking. We

"don't have much to offer you, at all, really,
other than my gratitude. Tell of a few friends of

"ours that've found their way wherever these savage
creatures are stationed. One of the individuals

"that was taken in a raid two nights ago was my
brother, Cyrus. Don't know if he's still amongst

"the living, but if you are indeed planning on
taking a look at where these orcs are and bring

"folks back safe, if you could just keep an eye out
for him?"

LIAM: Well, I'll tell you, in times like these, it
will feel good to be able to do a bit of good.

TALIESIN: Hear, hear.

LAURA: What does your brother look like?

MATT: "He's about 15 years younger than me. Shaggy
brown hair, bit of a puffy goatee. He looks like a

"lazy man. He is a lazy man, but I love him. If
you're looking for someone who's hiding in the

"corner, shaking in their boots, it's probably
him."

LAURA: Understood.

TRAVIS: Check the corners.

MATT: "It's his defense mechanism."

LAURA: (laughs) A very safe one.

MATT: "I hope." His eyes go a little colder at
that moment. "I hope."

LAURA: Well, we've been to the Frostweald before.
I'm not afraid to go in there again.

MARISHA: No.

TALIESIN: I say we take the evening to rest, and
first thing in the morning, head out.

LAURA: Would there be any injured members of your
camp that would want to head out in the morning to

Whitestone? Somebody that needs any medical
attention?

MATT: "We've got plenty of folks who aren't
feeling too well. Illness and disease,

"unfortunately, tend to go hand-in-hand with these
type of nomadic lifestyles. We can probably--

"about seven or eight people that could use some
relatively immediate attention. Couple survivors

"of the recent raids. If you can indeed do this,
you might be saving some lives, here."

MARISHA: Are we camping the rest of the night?

TALIESIN: Yes.

LIAM: That's wise.

TRAVIS: Yeah, we promise you no one will bother
you tonight.

MARISHA: Question. Question. Can I do my Transport
via Plants as a ritual cast to not burn a slot

level?

MATT: Nope.

MARISHA: That's what I thought.

MATT: It would say it next to the spell. Ritual.

MARISHA: That's what I thought. Okay. Keyleth
spends the rest of the evening burning up my

remainder spell slots to do curing on those who
need it.

MATT: Okay. You guys are given a relatively
ramshackle tent in which you can sleep for the

evening, cooked fish-- that's about all they have
to offer-- with a few leftover potatoes that

appear to have been recently either located
amongst their remaining crates, you have no idea,

but a passable meal is presented if you'd like,
and a place that has cloth over your head.

TRAVIS: No, I don't need to sleep tonight. I'll be
on the watch.

SAM: Boy.

(laughter)

LAURA: Should we scour the camp for her
grandfather?

TALIESIN: I'm sleeping tonight. I don't know
what's wrong with him.

LAURA: I know he said there were no gnomes, but--

TRAVIS: There's only 60 people. I feel like he'd
know with 60.

LAURA: Yeah.

TRAVIS: That's like this many, like--

LIAM: And it's not a lot of gnomes. I'm assuming
it's a handful of gnomes.

TRAVIS: Yeah.

LAURA: Right. I just, I don't know. I wish Pike
were here.

TRAVIS: Yeah, me too.

LIAM: Always wish Pike was here.

MATT: You do recall, last time you were in
Whitestone, you left the other half of your

gatestone with Pike.

TALIESIN: I'll write a letter.

MARISHA: We'll write a letter.

TALIESIN: I'll write a letter that will travel
with them to Whitestone and--

SAM: Oh.

MARISHA: Ooh, that's a good idea.

LAURA: That's wonderful, and she can pop over.

TALIESIN: Mm-hm. Take about a minute.

TRAVIS: Really?

MARISHA: Yeah.

SAM: Wait, we'd have to send them tonight,
though.

TALIESIN: No, in the morning.

LAURA: They could go in the morning and just go
find her immediately.

MARISHA: Yeah, could task someone to find her
immediately and then, as soon as she gets the

message, she'll beam to us.

SAM: All right.

LIAM: I've still got the other one. Right here.

TRAVIS: Great. We take the night, then.

LAURA: All right.

TALIESIN: I write a letter to my sister, letting
her know that I do apologize that we're sending

more people, but it's necessary, and I write her a
letter insisting that Pike be sent here by stone

immediately.

MATT: Okay.

LIAM: (singing) D-E-A-R C-A-S-S, how are you? I'm
fine.

LAURA: What the fuck are you singing?

TALIESIN: (singing) Everybody else is too!

LIAM: Wow! You know what I'm doing!

TRAVIS: Holy shit, what the fuck just happened?

LAURA: What was that?

TALIESIN: You are a nerd!

LIAM: A theatre nerd, yeah.

TALIESIN: Yeah, you are a theatre nerd.

LAURA: Wow.

LIAM: Secret Garden, ladies and gentlemen.

TALIESIN: Secret Garden: The Musical. It's
magical.

LIAM: Can we have the break so Taliesin and I can
go make out in the other room?

MATT: Don't go on break for that! Just move your
seating arrangement.

TALIESIN: And suddenly the YouTube hits just go
through the roof.

(laughter)

SAM: What injured people are going back? Have we
met these people yet? Can we meet them?

MATT: You haven't met them, no.

LAURA: Let's go find the injured.

MATT: You guys are led with Keyleth as well. There
are two armed guards that are hobbling their way

through their patrols tonight as they've been
wounded in the previous orc raid that happened the

couple nights beforehand. There are a number of
just relatively sick people. Couple of children.

Whether it be having to eat whatever was around to
stay alive but some of the food had spoiled in

travel, or just catching disease as when you have
clusters of people in cold environments,

especially cold, wet environments like this
tonight. It does tend to happen. Nothing seriously

life-threatening, but, you know, definitely
worrisome.

SAM: I try to find the one who's the most
able-bodied. Right? We're going to need someone to

go find Pike or deliver a message, right?

LAURA: Yes.

TALIESIN: It's going to be whoever's organizing
it.

SAM: Is someone going who's not injured to
transport these people?

MATT: Possibly. And you can organize whoever you'd
like. Someone you know, you could bring along.

MARISHA: Well, I start attending to the children
first.

MATT: Okay. So you tend to the children, helping
them feel comfortable, deal with any wounds,

scrapes, relative inconveniences, and it's easy
enough for you to take a moment to cure disease if

need be.

LAURA: Can we find any families with children and
maybe see if there's able bodies in there that we

could send through?

MATT: Okay. Yeah, you manage to-- and with Elowen
and her son Simon as well--

LAURA: Yes. Maybe Elowen could go?

TALIESIN: Elowen would be perfect.

MARISHA: Well, remember, we were able to get about
25 or so people through last time with the spell.

LAURA: How many sick people are there?

MATT: You see about seven or eight people that
could use it.

LAURA: Perfect.

MATT: So you can get a bunch of other folks
through as well.

MARISHA: Okay.

LAURA: I talk to Elowen and ask if she can go find
Pike in the morning, if she wants to go through,

and all that kind of stuff.

MATT: "I'd be happy to, I--"

SAM: You remember what Pike looks like?

MATT: "Yeah. About your size, lightish hair--"

SAM: Hair the color of the sunset, eyes like
waves that crash in the night, breasts, supple, firm--

TRAVIS: Okay, Scanlan. Scanlan.

ASHLEY: True, true, true.

(laughter)

MATT: "Right. Yes, I remember. I'll find her,
yes."

SAM: Smell of morning dew as it touches--

MATT: She begins to cover Simon's ears.

(laughter)

MATT: "All right, I think we should turn in for
the evening, but yes, I'll be happy to take care of it."

LIAM: Also of note, you're going to be going
through a tree.

MATT: "What?"

LIAM: Just go with it. You're going to be--

MARISHA: Well, you know, you didn't have to tell
them that now. Could've just let it be a surprise.

LAURA: It's really fun, actually.

LIAM: It's kind of frightening, though, if you
don't know it's coming.

LAURA: You'll pop right out in Whitestone. It's
amazing.

LIAM: It's still a little weird for me, to be
honest.

MARISHA: Is it? Okay, that's good to know.

MATT: "All right. All right." So, as the evening
comes to completion, you're taking guard for the

course of the evening.

LAURA: I pop Trinket out and I sleep on him.

TRAVIS: Very attentive.

MATT: (bear sound) He curls up.

LAURA: Hugs and hugs.

MATT: Yeah. Warm, fuzzy. Trinket makes for a very
good bed for one.

LAURA: Yes.

LIAM: I'm going to curl into the butt end, which
is all I get. All I ever got while we were traveling.

LAURA: Yeah. He farts on you all the time.

LIAM: I fart on him all the time.

MATT: It's just a fart exchange. Back and forth,
forever.

LIAM: Bada-lang-lang-lang-lang-lang-lang-lang.

MATT: (laughs) That got weird. Did you want to do
anything for the evening?

TRAVIS: No.

MATT: Okay. Make a perception check.

SAM: Oh boy.

LIAM: Oh crud. Big two!

TRAVIS: Big watch, big watch.

Nine!

LAURA: Ey-oh!

LIAM: Ey-oh! (exploding sounds)

MATT: Okay. All right. The evening goes by without
a hitch.

(groans)

LAURA: What would you have seen? What would you
have seen?

MATT: You all come to consciousness. You
eventually get your rest as well for the evening.

MARISHA: What didn't you see? Tell me what you
didn't see.

MATT: At this point, the tent city is back to a
bustling sound of folks going about their business

for the day, what kind of business that can be
done. The people that you've requested be sent

over to Whitestone have been gathered on the
outside, the western side of this small city area,

and some of the guards there are prepared to greet
you in preparation for sending these people over.

SAM: Keyleth, before we do this, there are no
trees here.

MARISHA: What? What do you mean? Are there trees
here?

MATT: No. It's a plain. I mean, there are the
occasional small tree, scattered in clusters

around, but you're in the grasslands.

MARISHA: I thought we were on the edge of a
forest.

SAM: There's no forest here.

MATT: The forest is south of you guys.

LAURA: We've got to walk them to the forest.

MARISHA: How fucking far are trees?

MATT: I'd say, probably--

SAM: Four days' journey.

MATT: No, from this area, it's most of a day's
travel. There are trees closer, but the forest is

that far.

MARISHA: I just need a tree to fit people through.
I need a person-width tree.

SAM: A giant tree.

MATT: To find a tree large enough to do this is
probably going to be about two hours' walking

distance.

LAURA: Okay, we can walk for two hours.

MARISHA: That's a nice morning hike.

LAURA: You know what, I'm going to fly up. I'm
going to (hacking spit) and fly up and find a

fucking tree.

SAM: Oh, you're going to scout?

LAURA: I'm going to scout for a tree.

MATT: All right. Go ahead and make a perception
check.

TRAVIS: Why did you pick that as the word?

LAURA: I didn't think about it. I forgot.

TALIESIN: That was a great decision.

LAURA: 23.

MATT: 23. You find, actually, hiding just around
the bend of a series of small hills that butt up

against the southwestern side of the Foramere
Basin, there is a small cluster of trees, one of

which is the largest of the group, that may
function as a function of this that is only about

a 30-minute walk from these.

MARISHA: That's doable. There we go.

LAURA: Fly back down and I tell them. I look along
the path, though, and make sure it's safe, the

walking back. Is it okay?

MATT: Yeah.

LIAM: Hopefully nobody saw the comely half-elf
flying through the bright blue sky.

LAURA: I wear turquoise to blend in with the blue
surroundings.

MATT: You didn't blend in too well, as when you
crested over, a number of the families and kids

that were prepared were pointing up. "Mom, she's
flying!" People were excited to see you take off

into the distance. It was quite a display. Well
done.

LAURA: I do some circles around and wave.

LIAM: Maybe you can join Dr. Dranzel in the
circus.

LAURA: I hang off of it as I come down, like woo!
And then come back up.

MATT: Go ahead and roll a dexterity check.

LAURA: Dexterity or acrobatics?

MATT: Dexterity.

LAURA: Damn it.

TRAVIS: Outstanding.

LAURA: I said as I come down. It was low. I was
low.

MATT: So as Vex takes a moment to do some unique
tricks with her elaborate and long-running

experience directing brooms across the sky, she
gets a bit cocky and does a "look, ma, no hands"

moment. However, in doing so, the broom sputters
out from under the grasp of her legs, and suddenly

goes limp as it begins to fall almost as fast as
you are, as you both begin to plummet.

LAURA: I grab for it! And (hacking spit) as I'm
grabbing for it.

LIAM: You can't fight the power of the one.

MATT: Unfortunately, you don't have any momentum
to go forward, and it's already coasted about 15,

20 feet away from you, and there's nowhere to
swim. All the kids are like, "Yay!" Cheering, and

all of a sudden you start falling, and they go
(screaming). And starts yelling.

TALIESIN: Which child in the crowd is going to
become Robin? I'm so excited.

MATT: I want you to go ahead and roll an
acrobatics check.

TALIESIN: This is how we make a vigilante.

LAURA: Okay, okay. 25.

MATT: 25, okay. So you only suffer nine points of
falling damage as you hit the ground and do a

tumble, land arms out and catch the broom, smiling
amongst the serious pain in your legs and back.

LAURA: I'll bet you thought I was really falling!

MATT: All the kids are like, "Yay!" And start
cheering, clapping. Even the parents start

clapping. The guards start clapping, like, "That
was genuinely impressive." Played it off.

TRAVIS: Blood trickles out of the ear from the
brain trauma.

(laughter)

SAM: Does the broom just fall, or does it shoot
off like a missile?

MATT: It shoots off for a second, carrying the
momentum of the propulsion, and then it falls limp

as it no longer has the immediate connection with
the person. But she did catch it after she

tumbled.

SAM: Oh, okay, that's cool.

TALIESIN: Working on it.

LAURA: I'm going to work on that trick, you guys,
and it's going to be amazing.

TALIESIN: I think it's perfect.

LIAM: Blood for the blood gods.

MATT: All right. Finding the tree, you guys walk,
and bringing the families and the children and the

people that were chosen to go to Whitestone,
Keyleth, you create your Transport via Plants

spell. (whoosh) The doorway opens, and it barely
fits onto this one half-dead willow that's

cresting the side there. Everyone (gasps).

MARISHA: We form the line, the ranks.

LIAM: Climb through, climb through, you have to
move quickly.

MARISHA: Go, go, go, go!

MATT: At the very end, Elowen's the last one
through, and she's holding the letter and she

looks back and says, "Promise," and leaps through
right as it closes in the tree. You look toward

the guards that were with you guys, who are just
watching this whole thing with their eyes wide

open.

TRAVIS: Glad you let us in, aren't you?

MATT: "Yeah."

MARISHA: I turn to him and I go, high five! Okay.

MATT: At this point, you see two figures walking
towards you at this southern forest.

SAM: Two figures walking towards us?

MATT: Towards you guys, rather hastily.

SAM: I draw my whip.

MATT: Okay. Whip's out. You glance over and, easy
enough to see, it is Drez Vina and this older

individual, both rushing up. Drez has his hand
up. "Excuse me, I'm sorry, pardon me!"

TALIESIN: Yes, hello? Hello?

MATT: "It has been some time, everyone. Pleasure
to see you again."

LAURA: We remember, dear.

MATT: "Wondrous, wondrous. I'm here with--" And as
he gestures, the old man puts his hand in front

and goes, "Would you please just let me talk for
once? Hello. I am--" And he looks over. "Has he

"been giving you my-- I am Master Quall. Pleasure
to meet all of you."

SAM: Quall?

MATT: "I was the collector that had hired you in
previous times as Drez has recently made me aware,

"and while our track record has been spotty, you
seem to be rather able-bodied, and whispers this

"morning that have come to my ears mention that you
have interest in returning to Westruun. Is that correct?"

SAM: To set it free, yes.

MATT: "Wondrous, wondrous." He looks over to Drez.
Drez goes, "Yes, well, you see, the master here

"lives within Westruun, and-- " "I'm talking, I've
got this. My abode, which is a relatively humble

"structure, two stories, bricks and dark wood,
southeast of the town square, right by the

"fountain crossroads, I'm sure you've seen it
before. Since this whole endeavor has happened, it

"has usurped a bit of progress in my
experimentation, and I would be remiss if I didn't

"request your assistance in perhaps retrieving a
very important piece of my collection so I might

"continue this research in this desolate place."

LIAM: What are the subjects of your
experimentation?

MATT: "Various things. I enjoy finding out the
base elements of existence and life."

LAURA: Insight check.

MATT: Insight check.

LAURA: He's lying. 18.

MATT: 18.

TALIESIN: God damn it.

TRAVIS: Whispers!

SAM: Dagger Dagger Dagger is one of the shirts
that's available. There's Strongjaw Ale. Strongjaw

Ale available for sale. Check it out. Geek and
Sundry.

TALIESIN: That's very interesting. Did you know
that I'm a collector as well, actually?

MATT: "Really? Oh, quaint."

TALIESIN: Of specifics.

MATT: "Of what?"

TALIESIN: Specifics. I see that you have not
really handed any over.

MATT: "It may be a bit beyond your
understanding."

LAURA: Very few things are beyond his
understanding.

MATT: "Very well. I appreciate the synergies
between various elements and the ability to link

"the essence with that of a living organic entity,
or the transition of such living essence into what

"is normally non-living matter."

MARISHA: So you're a necromancer.

MATT: "No! I don't deal with that ridiculous
stuff."

TALIESIN: He's talking about transmutation of some
kind.

MATT: "Yes, yes! Thank you. The transitioning of
essences or sparking essence within what was once

"non-living matter. I'm talking about elements, I'm
not talking about flesh."

MARISHA: Like natural elements?

LAURA: Like golems.

TALIESIN: It's the veganism of necromancy. It's
just kind of dull.

MATT: "What was that?"

TALIESIN: Nothing.

MATT: "Now, I had previously asked you to retrieve
an item in the past. That was part of this

"research and I was nearing a breakthrough, I
believe. However, if you could find your way into

"this abode and retrieve for me-- It's in the
basement, amongst my work desk area. It's a simple

"dark iron and cobalt circlet. A band, if you will.
If you could retrieve that for me, I would make it

"quite worth your while and be ever-grateful and in
your service."

LIAM: What are we talking about, a pile of coin,
or something else?

MATT: "As I said before, I am quite the collector,
and while I do hate to relinquish my grasp on

"various parts of this collection, for someone who
does me a grand favor, I am willing to look the

"other way as one might disappear."

LAURA: What does the circlet do?

MATT: "It's more of an experimental piece."

LIAM: Come on. Don't treat us like a bunch of
fucking assholes. It's in the middle of shit right

now. We're not going to go in there for a trinket.
It's obviously something very worthwhile. You

would have a better chance with us if you're
honest.

MATT: Drez at this point steps forward and goes,
"I would appreciate if you respected the master

"for his research. He is going to offer you a great
guide."

MARISHA: Oh, shut up, Drez.

LIAM: Yeah, you're an asshole. You're the biggest
asshole. I'm not talking to you. I'm talking to

you. I'm not talking to you, I'm talking to you.

MATT: "Sir, perhaps we need to--" At which point
he looks over and the master's like (cackling).

"About time someone called you on it."

SAM: Master Quall. We're looking for the Vestiges
of Divergence.

LAURA: Scanlan, what the fuck?

SAM: Oh, am I not supposed to say that? Do you
know where those are? That's what we want. If you

can offer us one of those, we'll do business with
you. Otherwise, we're going to fuck off.

MARISHA: Wait, he might. Look, Master Quall.
Finish what you were saying first.

MATT: "Yes. I've heard of this title before. You
say you're seeking them, are you?"

SAM: I am. Not them.

MATT: "Where are you seeking these? Whereabouts
are you off to?"

MARISHA: Well, we were headed towards--

SAM: We don't know where they are.

LAURA: They're all sorts of different places.
We're trying to figure that out right now. We're

not exactly sure. We're not exactly sure,
Keyleth.

SAM: We thought you might know.

MARISHA: How is what we're seeking less important
than where we're seeking it? I'm really confused.

TRAVIS: Oh, you know, just in case we mention
where we might be looking for them, in front of

these people.

LAURA: Because what if he goes to find them?

MATT: "Don't worry."

MARISHA: Does he look like the man capable of
going and finding things? He's trying to send us

back into his own god damn basement to get his own
shit.

MATT: "See, there is a woman who speaks both her
mind and a mind of quite acute truth."

SAM: She is cute.

LAURA: Is it morning yet? Can Pike come join us
yet?

SAM: She is being sought.

MATT: As you guys are having this conversation,
there's a little (crackling) flash of divine

energy before you, and a slight popping sound as
out of the middle of the air next to you, there

comes, jogging in, a freshly winded, fully armored
Pike.

SAM: What an entrance!

TALIESIN: See, you start arguing and you just make
a gnome. This is what happens.

TRAVIS: I run over and I pick up Pike and I spin
her around in a big bear hug.

ASHLEY: Hey, Grog!

TRAVIS: Oh, my little buddy Pike. We missed you.

ASHLEY: Oh, I missed you guys.

MARISHA: Hi, Pike!

ASHLEY: Hey guys! Oh, who are these two?

MATT: At this point, Master Quall is going through
a series of notes. He goes, "I'm very certain this

"gnome was not created."

MARISHA: And you remember Drez.

ASHLEY: Oh, yes. Mr. Vina. Drez Vina.

MATT: "Yes. It is a delight to see you as well,
small one."

ASHLEY: Hi!

MATT: "Well, this grew very complicated."

TALIESIN: Master Quall.

MATT: "Yes."

TALIESIN: Let's lay the cards on the table. If we
find this thing of yours in your basement, and if

we go to your home, we are certainly going to go
into the basement and find it now regardless,

we're going to figure out what it is before we
give it to you anyway. The world is dangerous

right now, and it is not appropriate to just be
handing mystical artifacts of great strength

willy-nilly to anybody who asks. The world is
dangerous and we need to make sure that power is

flowing in the correct direction. Now, you can
either be forthright with that and get your

property, or we can find it in your basement and
experiment on it until we know what it is.

MATT: "Good luck even attempting such an
endeavor."

TALIESIN: I have very good luck attempting these
endeavors.

MATT: "Well. Let's just say that it's a device
that, when completed, to the specialty of my own

"training and studies, would enable me the means of
personal defense to get me through these rather

"difficult and dangerous times. As I am not getting
any younger and it seems that we're having

"entities of great power and mischief intent on
destruction continuously tearing down my very

"doorways--" He looks off in the direction of
Westruun. "I would feel more comfortable if I

"could keep myself well guarded. And that is what
this circlet is intended to provide."

LAURA: Tell you what, Master Quall.

MATT: "Yes?"

LAURA: We're not heading there now, but we'll be
going back, and when we do, we will find your

home, and we will search out this circlet.

SAM: Well, hold on, before we just say no, what's
the reward? Do we know what you're paying for this?

TALIESIN: Well, he's got a collection.

MATT: "A simple trade of my collection. You bring
me one of my items, and I gift you one of mine as well."

TALIESIN: I personally feel this is reasonable.

MARISHA: I'm curious if you could be more
beneficial in paying us with

information. With knowledge.

LAURA: As well as something from your collection.

MATT: "I am more than willing to offer information
for trade. It is quite a grand trade indeed. If

"that is acceptable."

LAURA: No, we would want something as well,
physically.

TALIESIN: This is a deposit of information.

MATT: "All right. Then, as part of the deposit,
what do you require of me?"

MARISHA: Are you familiar with a sphinx named
Osysa?

MATT: "Can't say that I am."

MARISHA: Resides up-- No?

TALIESIN: What does he know, perhaps, of the--
no?

MARISHA: Are you familiar with any other sphinxes
that reside in this area? Do you know the address?

MATT: "I'm sorry, but they don't really wander in
open daylight."

LAURA: Do you know where they wander?

TALIESIN: In darkness, if they don't wander in
open daylight.

MATT: He gives a curious look at both of you. "I
am not a master of mythology. I do not know of

"such entities and where they might reside or
exist. I apologize."

MARISHA: Well, you do seem to be a master of
items. We are looking for certain special Vestiges.

MATT: "So you say. And you're saying this sphinx
may want to help you in this endeavor?"

MARISHA: We're not sure yet.

TALIESIN: It's a long walk.

MARISHA: We thought maybe he could help us find
them, but maybe you could be of a similar service.

MATT: "Well. What I do have--" And he turns
around. "Come with me to my tent, please. I may

"have something that can be of service to you."

MARISHA: Sure.

LAURA: I give Pike a hug as we walk to his tent.

SAM: Actually, I pull Pike aside and say-- Well,
not aside. I just ask her, how's Whitestone?

What's going on there?

ASHLEY: Well, it's okay. I think I got to the
point where I couldn't build anymore, heal any

more people. I needed a little adventure. But
everything is as you would think it would be.

SAM: No dragon attacks?

ASHLEY: None at the moment. We've been trying to
hold down the place as much as we can, and getting

there seems to be okay.

LIAM: I did not go up to Pike. I hung way the fuck
back.

MATT: All right. You guys eventually make your
way back to the small outpost, at this point, to

the tent of Drez Vina and Master Quall. Master
Quall steps inside. You hear him rummaging through

some things. Something rolls and breaks, and you
hear, "Oh, damn it!" from the inside. He comes

back out and goes, "All right, so, this." And he
holds up this small glass bauble. The inside has a

spinning, looks like a brass gyroscope-type
interior. He goes, "This item, when clasped and

"concentrated on, should light up any sort of
nearby magical incantations or enchantments. This,

"if you are in the presence of such objects as you
are seeking, should be quite helpful in locating

"their presence. It does not have an incredibly
long range, but it should, at the very least, be

"somewhat helpful."

LAURA: That's pretty cool.

SAM: You're giving this to us?

MATT: "I'm lending it to you. Should you wish this
to be part of the trade instead of something from

"my collection..."

LAURA: No no no. Lending is--

TALIESIN: Lending is perfectly agreeable.

MATT: "Now I have lent you something in the past,
and not only did it not return to me, but I had to

"extract the funds by forcing another contract on
you. Can I trust you to complete this endeavor?"

SAM: You can trust us, as far as Grog can throw
me.

TRAVIS: Pretty fucking far.

TALIESIN: You can trust her.

MATT: "Deal." And he hands it out.

TRAVIS: We will make our way into the city, and
when we do, we will look for your items.

MATT: "Thank you. I appreciate that."

SAM: Or we could just send Vex on a broom right
now to get it solo--

MARISHA: Wait, what? What?

TALIESIN: We are not flying a half-elf into the
city on a broom that she has already fallen off of

in the last 24 hours.

LIAM: Archers!

LAURA: I am recovering a bit right now, but thank
you for the wonderful, wonderful idea, Scanlan!

SAM: I think you can do it. I think you can do
it.

LAURA: Thank you! I appreciate the vote of
confidence.

LIAM: He is a tactician.

MARISHA: Hey, what might this item be called, Sir
Quall?

MATT: "I haven't named it, actually. I made it for
myself. Call it what you like."

SAM: How about "The Hunk of Quall"?

MARISHA: The Hunk of Quall.

MATT: "Should you wish, certainly."

TALIESIN: Didn't we had a conversation about
letting him name things?

I feel like we had this conversation.

TRAVIS: Always do it, right?

MATT: "Enjoy carrying among yourselves The Hunk of
Quall."

TRAVIS: Thank you. Drez Vina, it hasn't been a
pleasure, nice to see you.

MATT: Drez crosses his arms, "Indeed. All right,
good luck."

TRAVIS: And can I take Pike around the shoulder
and lead her out of the tent?

MATT: Yeah.

TRAVIS: Hey, hey... hey, Pike?

ASHLEY: Yeah?

TRAVIS: So I'm glad things have been good at
Whitestone. They've been good, yeah?

ASHLEY: Yeah, they've been all right, I mean, it's
okay, I've been missing you guys, though.

TRAVIS: Yeah, we miss you a whole lot. Listen,
I've got some rough news, actually. We made it

back to Westruun, and the city has kind of been
ransacked and overtaken. It was attacked by a

bunch of dragons, and what's worse is that after
it was attacked-- you know that herd of wandering

goliaths that left me for dead in the woods?

ASHLEY: Of course.

TRAVIS: Yeah, they've kind of taken control of the
city, and I think that's my family that's in there.

ASHLEY: Oh no.

TRAVIS: Yeah. Look, we wanted to go in, I wanted
to look for Wilhand, but we haven't done it yet, and--

ASHLEY: Have you heard anything else? Do you think
they are okay?

TRAVIS: I don't know. Some of us went in via mist
and they haven't seen him, but they don't really

know what he looks like. The place looks pretty
rough, he's not here in this little encampment.

I'm not really sure where he is.

ASHLEY: Okay. Well, I wonder if we should go look
for him

TRAVIS: Yeah, I want to, but like, listen. I'm
afraid to put everybody in the group in jeopardy.

They're going to be there, in the city, and I was
wondering what you might think about going to look

for a few other more Vestiges, trying to find
Osysa's mate and seeing if we can find anything

that can help us, because it's going to be a
fight, right? And you know me:

I fucking love a fight, but--

ASHLEY: That's a lot of them.

TRAVIS: Yeah, it's a lot.

ASHLEY: I think we should wait until we're fully
prepared.

TRAVIS: Yeah, you think so?

ASHLEY: I think so. I don't think it's safe any
other way.

TRAVIS: I missed you so much!

ASHLEY: Oh Grog, I missed you too!

TRAVIS: And I cry a little bit into my beard, and
I wipe it away I'm like: Oh! The pollen out in

these fields is awful!

(laughter)

ASHLEY: It's okay, Grog! I give him a hug, and I
take my blue scarf and I pat his eyes.

ALL: Oh!

TRAVIS: (crying) It's raining!

(laughter)

TRAVIS: As soon as we find this out, if we find
nothing-- I promise, I pledge to you that we will

find Wilhand.

ASHLEY: Okay.

TRAVIS: All right.

MATT: All right.

SAM: So, is the task then to go find the
orcs that are keeping their people

hostage up in the Frostweald?

LAURA: We head into the Frostweald, we find the
orcs and send them back and keep going and find

this Sphinx-y mate.

MARISHA: Did we have any other information
of where he is in the Frostweald

or do we just know Frostweald?

LAURA: We just know Frostweald. Pike?

MATT: The information that you received was,
somewhere in the base of the Stormcrest Mountains,

past the Frostweald.

MARISHA: Past the Frostweald?

LIAM: Through it to the base of the mountain.

LAURA: Of the what mountain?

MATT: Stormcrest Mountains.

LIAM: That's a real place.

TRAVIS: Actually, Pike.

ASHLEY: Yeah?

TRAVIS: I've been holding on to something, and I
think you might like it. I have these Gauntlets of

Ogre Power, and I can't wear them anymore, because
I got some new stuff, and if you wear it, your

strength score goes up to 19.

ASHLEY: What!

TRAVIS: Do you want them? You have to attune to
them.

ASHLEY: Do you think they'll fit?

TRAVIS: I think they might shrink. I don't know,
though.

TALIESIN: Do you know what 19 means?

TRAVIS: Isn't it like a French dish?

LAURA: Yes.

ASHLEY: I would love to wear those.

TRAVIS: All right, and I give Pike the Gauntlets
of Ogre Power.

MATT: As you guys take a short rest to prepare for
this, Ashley, you take some time with the

gauntlets, and while you're looking them over and
taking your own armored gauntlets off and

replacing them with these, your hand goes-- It's
like placing a baseball into a bucket. It's so big

around your arm. But then as you take a moment to
see the metal and reflect upon it, you can feel

the hum of magical energy that begins to invisibly
intertwine with your forearm as the metal begins

to creak almost, and it shrinks down, encases
itself to your forearm. While it doesn't match the

metal of your armor, the silver-gold theme that
goes on along it with this weird ogreish face

that's built into the plate there, you feel
suddenly this surge of strength begin to spill

through your body, and you're pretty confident
that this may be useful in the near future.

LAURA: You're stronger than Grog now!

MATT: You are technically now stronger than Grog.

ASHLEY: I let out a little battle cry. (battle
cry)

TRAVIS: Yeah, and I go to give her a fist bump.

ASHLEY: I fist bump him!

MATT: And it hurts you a little bit.

LAURA: Oh, shit! Pike is so strong!

TRAVIS: Holy shit. Nice, Pike!

MATT: Pike, what was your strength before?

ASHLEY: 13.

MATT: Okay. At a 19, you're now at a plus four as
opposed to a plus one to all your hit and damage

with your physical weapons.

LIAM: You just Tyler Durden-ed out, son!

MATT: So on your sheet, where it has your attack
bonus with your mace, or with your morningstar,

and the damage, add a plus three to both the
attack bonus and damage.

ASHLEY: All right, because right now my attack
bonus is plus seven, so I add three to that.

MATT: It's now plus ten.

LAURA: Holy moley!

MARISHA: That's so cool! You're a beast!

LIAM: Little golden bullet.

ASHLEY: I can't find a pencil! That's okay, I'll
make a note. I can do it later. I am unprepared.

Yes, I am unprepared for all this strength!

TRAVIS: Right, so now we have all our stuff.
Should we make our way towards that area they said

that the orc raiders were coming from?

SAM: Yeah, it's a couple days from here?

MATT: On foot travel, it's about a day and a
half.

SAM: For mist form?

MATT: Mist form, you'll get there by nightfall.

LAURA: But we can't use it, because she already
used the travel through the trees.

MARISHA: Sorry.

LAURA: But we saved all those people, Scanlan.

SAM: Pike, can you make us mist?

ASHLEY: No, I can't do anything like that.

SAM: All right.

LAURA: Let's walk.

ASHLEY: I feel like I haven't spent any time with
Vax.

SAM: With Vax? Oh, he's around. You know, he's
probably just sulking.

LIAM: I walk away.

MATT: You glance back and see Vax towards the back
of the group. Noticing this conversation, Vax

immediately turns around and walks away and dodges
around one of the nearby tents.

LIAM: Big nope to that one.

TRAVIS: What is the weather like outside?

MATT: Actually, today it's spotty clouds, but blue
sky. It's actually pretty good weather, versus a

lot of the rain that you had over in Vasselheim.

TRAVIS: Cold, snowy on the ground?

MATT: No. Because you're getting a little further
south than the northern area of it, the

temperature is probably around high 70s, low 80s.

LAURA: It is going to get cold, though, once we
head into the Frostweald. We had all those fancy

cloaks. I had winter's cloaks for all of us
before.

TRAVIS: I still have mine.

LAURA: Does everyone still have their winter's
cloaks from a long time ago?

MARISHA: I do.

TALIESIN: Oh, wow, yes, look at that.

SAM: I didn't burn it.

TRAVIS: Let's go.

SAM: We're just going to walk? Do these refugees
have any horses or anything?

LAURA: They're refugees.

MATT: The few horses they do have are currently
quartered to wagons and look to be more beasts of

burden for, if they have to move, to carry most
of their goods with them, as opposed to riding horses.

TRAVIS: Come on, man, let's just hoof it.

SAM: All right, we'll walk.

MARISHA: Oh my gosh, are we walking? We haven't
walked anywhere in so long.

LIAM: It's like we're back in New York again.

MARISHA: It's like we're level three again.

MATT: And those horses will survive, because you
didn't take them.

TRAVIS: Oh, that's fucked up.

LAURA: That's really sad.

TRAVIS: Take a walk. Save a horse.

MATT: That's a good Vox Machina bumper sticker.

TALIESIN: My other horse is walking.

TRAVIS: Coming to the Geek and Sundry store.

MATT: All right. You guys make your Fellowship
trek southward with the sweeping camera drone shot.

LAURA: I constantly keep an eye out for anything
in the front of us and behind us.

MATT: Thankfully, most of these fields, of varying
degrees of grass height, but for the most part

it's pretty wide vision of where you're heading.

MARISHA: I paint pictures in the clouds as we go.

LAURA: Oh, that's good. That'll definitely not let
anyone know magical people are on their way.

TALIESIN: Just point arrows in the opposite
direction.

TRAVIS: Graffiti as we go.

ASHLEY: Can I insight-check Vax?

MATT: Sure. Roll an insight check.

ASHLEY: Natural 20.

MATT: I believe you.

MARISHA: This never happens.

SAM: You just saw all of his dirty dreams.

MATT: What does she see and read on your face and
body language, Vax?

LIAM: I got to say this?

MATT: I can say it, if you want to.

LIAM: I don't want these assholes to know what I'm
thinking. I don't know. Can't whisper it to her.

MATT: You can text it to her real fast, if you
want.

LIAM: Yeah, I'll text it to you.

LAURA: But put it on Twitter so that everybody
else knows what it is.

LIAM: No.

ASHLEY: I'll post it.

MATT: Okay, so you'll have an incoming text of
information. As you guys continue walking, these

are the observations you make of Vax as you travel
southward. You travel for the better part of a

day. You get quite a bit south. You do see in the
distance a few times what appear to be some pack

animals, some larger beasts that roam the land,
none that are necessarily aggressive unless you

encroach upon their territory, and Keyleth, you
have experience with some of these beasts, so you

manage to keep people at bay and traverse around
what they claim as their own landscape. No

terrible detriment to your traveling speed. You
make your way to the point where the sun goes

down. You can stop and camp for the night or you
can push through the evening. What do you wish to do?

MARISHA: Are there any trees nearby?

MATT: Little periods here, little tiny groves that
might be spotty along your journey, but for the

most part it's open fields.

MARISHA: How much further do we have, do you
think?

MATT: One more day. One more eight-hour period of
travel.

LAURA: We should probably rest, then, right? We'll
be hitting the Frostweald at night tomorrow.

TALIESIN: We're not in a rush.

LAURA: Not anymore. The dragons are bunkered down,
I believe.

TALIESIN: Everything we do now is measured in
weeks and months and not days.

LAURA: And I still have a little dried blood on
the outside of my ear. I could use a bit of rest.

TALIESIN: Actually, yeah, do you have a
concussion? Is that something that we can-- how

many fingers am I holding up?

LAURA: You're really blurry, Percy, I have no
idea.

TRAVIS: Nine!

MATT: Save versus brain swelling. Are you guys
setting up camp?

LAURA: I want to pull my brother aside when we set
up camp.

SAM: Do we want camp, or do you want to sleep in a
mansion?

LAURA: Pike hasn't seen your beautiful mansion!

MARISHA: Oh, you have to show her the marble
floors.

TALIESIN: Do we want to do it now, or do we want
to do it tomorrow night, is the question?

SAM: We can do it both.

LAURA: Oh, that's right-- We can do it both
nights?

SAM: I can do it every day, right?

ASHLEY: Where do you have a mansion?

LAURA: Scanlan has a mansion, Pike!

SAM: I inherited some money. It's a long story.
There was a great-uncle Vesuvius.

TALIESIN: Also known as Uncle Touchy. Uncle
No-No.

LIAM: Canon, that's canon.

SAM: The court said that he had to give me-- No.
We'll sleep in the mansion tonight, and they all

know where they're sleeping, but I'll personally
show Pike to her chambers, which are right next

door to mine at the end of the long hallway. My
room, obviously, the biggest, tallest. Pike's a

close second. Beautiful, covered in yellow rose
petals as far as you can see.

MATT: So, Pike, as Scanlan creates this somewhat
shimmering door of mystical energy in the middle

of the air off of the path you guys have been
walking, in the middle of this field. It's just

the open grass that's blowing with this gentle
night breeze, a little bit of the moonlight is

coming through the clouds, giving enough of a
visual of this change in the air space. He pushes

open the shimmering door, and on the inside is
this beautiful mansion. Tall foyer with marble

floors, pillars that raise to the ceiling with
gold trim. There's a giant portrait in the center

of the main stairway now that has both Scanlan and
you on horseback over a beautiful landscape. There

are a number of mystical servants that are
somewhat transparent and spiritual, arcane energy

in form, that take your coats and offer food. A
delicious meal is presented for all of you.

SAM: Mostly chicken.

MATT: It's mostly chicken. It's a lot of chicken.

LAURA: I'm having a lot of talk with the servants
about different ways to prepare food.

SAM: Please do.

TALIESIN: They keep clucking it up.

MATT: Protein, bro! Scanlan does lead you to your
room, which is right next to his, and covered in

yellow rose petals, a beautiful interior. The
color scheme is marked tailored specifically to

your tastes that he's been able to glean from
conversations with you over the past couple years.

SAM: Blues, silvers. There's a little mini prayer
area for her to pray to Sarenrae, and there's a

little statue of Sarenrae, and if you pull it, a
little secret door opens to my room. But it's a

small door that only a gnome could fit through.

ASHLEY: Oh, great! Is there a lock on that,
maybe?

(laughter)

SAM: Only on my side.

ASHLEY: Okay. Oh, this is beautiful, Scanlan!

SAM: I did it for you. And, hey, while we have a
moment alone, can I just mention something to you?

Listen, I'm not really concerned with other
people's vices or bad behaviors, but Grog has this

sword, and it's sort of not good. It could be used
for good, possibly, but I'm just worried about it.

Just keep an eye on it. I don't know what it is,
and maybe you could just check it out next time

you're friending it up with him.

ASHLEY: Okay. When they had that fight with Percy,
up in the house, I felt like there was something

weird with that sword. I'll check it out.

SAM: I don't want to judge him or what he does,
but just make sure that it won't kill any of us.

That's all I care about.

ASHLEY: Yeah, that's a good plan. Okay, I will.
Thanks, Scanlan.

SAM: Sleep tight. And if you hear any
footsteps in your room, it's not me.

It's the servants, I assure you.

LAURA: Can I find-- Is there a library in the
mansion, Scanlan?

SAM: Of course.

LAURA: Can I pull my brother into a library or
something? I just want to talk to you.

LIAM: What? What?

LAURA: Okay, weirdo. I couldn't help but notice,
anywhere Pike was, you were not, all day today,

and I have a feeling it's because--

LIAM: You want to talk?

LAURA: Yes. I do. Don't walk away from me, please.
I have a feeling it's because of this Raven Queen

situation. I don't know. I know that you offered
yourself to her to save me, and I can't put into

words how much that means to me. I'm worried that
she took you up on the offer, and I know you're

worried about it, too. And I'm afraid that's why
you're avoiding Pike. You're afraid she's going to

see something in you. But I wanted to tell you,
I've been looking through this book. It's the best

35 gold I've ever spent. Maybe it was 30 gold, I
don't even remember anymore.

LIAM: It was 30.

LAURA: It was 30! It would have been worth 35 for
all the things that I found in it! Look, it's got

all this information about the Raven Queen, and
I've been looking at it all the time. I don't

think she's as horrible as you're afraid she is.
Can I tell you what I found?

LIAM: Yes, please.

LAURA: It says that those that follow her must
hold no pity for those who suffer and die, for

death is the natural end of life. That's not bad.
Bring down the proud who try to cast off the

chains of fate. As the instrument of the Raven
Queen, you must punish hubris where you find it.

Bring down those who try to cast off the chains of
fate. The Raven Queen represents death, right?

Therefore she hates those that live an immortal
life. She hates vampires! We hate vampires!

They're terrible people, right? That's not bad!
Watch for the cult of Orcus, and stamp them out

whenever they arise. Orcus is bad. If she hates
him, then she must not be that terrible.

LIAM: She's already speaking to me.

LAURA: Oh. And?

LIAM: I don't know, Vex'ahlia. I don't know what
this means. I know that she's not a force for

evil. Neither are funeral homes. I don't want to
bed down in one.

LAURA: Well, that's understandable.

LIAM: But it doesn't matter. And I'd do it again,
because I did it for you, and I am trying to come

to terms with it, not knowing the terms.

LAURA: Well. We've lived half our life in the
shadows. You've made them your home. Am I right?

LIAM: Maybe so.

LAURA: This is a time you can either let those
shadows swallow you down and keep falling into a

hole, or you can use them to your advantage. You
can become a champion. It's pretty fucking badass,

if you ask me.

LIAM: Do you know how bad this armor smells?

LAURA: I can smell it, actually. Pretty terrible.

LIAM: It's several centuries old. It's not
pleasant.

LAURA: Maybe we can get you some oils or something
to put on it.

LIAM: Maybe.

LAURA: What I'm saying is, brother, I'm proud of
you, and I'm happy for you, and I'm so, so

thankful for you. And you don't need to be
frightened! This is a wonderful thing. Not many

fucking people can say they're a champion of a
fucking god.

LIAM: Listen. I'll take what you say under
consideration. Again, none of us, you and I don't

know what this means. I'm waiting to see.

LAURA: All right. But as someone who's seen the
other side and has come back thanks to you,

there's no use living your life in fear. I love my
reckless brother, as much as he hurts my heart. I

love you for that, and don't be afraid to be
that.

LIAM: I have no clever answer to give you.

LAURA: That's wonderful. I love you. And I walk
away!

(laughter)

LIAM: I go to bed.

TALIESIN: Before Scanlan disappears, I grab him as
he's leaving.

SAM: I'm just making the rounds, make sure
everyone's tucked in for the night.

LIAM: Scanlan's like, wasn't looking in on Pike.
Wasn't looking in on Pike.

TALIESIN: Have you, perhaps, installed some sort
of workspace in this wonderful home of yours for

me? I've got a few little projects I want to poke
at.

SAM: You mean the all-purpose room?

LAURA: The Room of Requirement?

TALIESIN: I'm a little worried by what all-purpose
necessarily means.

SAM: Don't look in there with a black light.

TALIESIN: It's not really a work table, is it?

LIAM: It is the danger room.

SAM: It's all purposes, Percy. All purposes. But
yes, it is a private room. No one can hear you

scream in there. It's the farthest wing we have. I
can give you some servants to help you set

something up, bring in some tables, whatever. We
don't have much in here, we're not prepared for

chemical reactions.

TALIESIN: Nothing complicated, just some very
basic blacksmithing and a little bit of

leatherwork.

SAM: Do I have that stuff? Anything to help him?

MATT: Yeah. If it was prepared within the house.

SAM: I tried to make enough stuff for all of us to
have our basic needs met.

TALIESIN: I can think of some very sexy things
that can be done with an anvil. Think about it.

SAM: All my anvils are gnome-sized.

TALIESIN: That's comical.

MARISHA: Keyleth pops her head out into the
hallway. Did I hear something about working? Are

you working?

TALIESIN: Yes. Scanlan's helping me find a room
that apparently is so sound-proof we don't

actually have to hear anyone else's drama.

MARISHA: Oh, that's fantastic.

TALIESIN: I know. Grab a book. It'll be fun.

MARISHA: I might join you.

SAM: Are you going to have a working dinner? I'll
send some chickens down.

MARISHA: I can't sleep, so, yes.

TRAVIS: What about cows?

TALIESIN: No cows in my room either, please.

MARISHA: I join Percy and help him.

MATT: Okay. You guys find the all-purpose room,
which does have the basics required for smithing.

The smithing gear that is brought to you by the
servants in itself is very, very finely crafted

and nearly weightless. It's really impressive, and
you look at the label, and it has a small timer on

it before it becomes immaterial.

TALIESIN: I can work with materials that are in
the Bag of Holding, that are real materials, as

long as I put them back in the Bag of Holding and
take them with me? I can't leave anything,

obviously.

MATT: Yeah. Anything you leave in here will just
be spat out.

TALIESIN: Oh, it'll just be spat out. That's
lovely.

MATT: Yeah, onto the ground where it was.

TALIESIN: For the moment, because I don't have
everything I need for the broom yet, I want to

work on a piece of jewelry, if that's okay. I want
to work on the thing.

MATT: Work on jewelry?

TALIESIN: I want to construct a little piece of
jewelry if that's okay. Not magical.

MATT: Do you have a jeweler's kit?

TALIESIN: Do I have a jeweler's kit?

MATT: It's a whole different skill set, man.

TALIESIN: I can't tinker something?

MATT: You can tinker something, but jewelry is
different from tinkering.

TALIESIN: No, well, this is a piece that has
purpose. It actually is going to be a functional

object.

MATT: What is the function of this object? You
need to tell me these things.

TALIESIN: I know. This is something that I-- I'm
so sorry.

MATT: I'm going to make something! Make me roll
for it! I got to know what you're doing.

TALIESIN: I want to make a-- I'm so sorry, I'm
losing the word.

MARISHA: Hey, Percy, what are you trying to make?

TALIESIN: Something that's too complicated to
explain to you. I'm blanking on it. I may have to

just give you the name at the break. A little herb
pouch, like one of those cages that close up to

put herbs in them?

SAM: Oh, like you make tea with?

MATT: Okay. It won't be pretty, but you can make
it functional. Yeah, go ahead and make

a tinkering check.

TALIESIN: All right, I'll make it pretty later.

LIAM: Like a Shoprite bag with a bunch of shit in
it?

MATT: This will be a dexterity mod, because it's
not a very complicated piece based on what you've

constructed in the past. It's more about your
ability to make it work.

TALIESIN: Dexterity? Thank god, because that's a
terrible roll. 14.

MATT: 14. Okay, it takes you the better part of
the night.

MARISHA: Do I assist him at all?

MATT: With a job this small, there's not a whole
lot you can assist with except handing him tools.

TALIESIN: I'm not going to run the whole night. At
some point I'm going to be like, I don't have the

design yet. This is something I want to get right,
so this is going to be working towards it.

MATT: Okay, so you get the first stage of that set
and ready to go.

TALIESIN: I can't think of the name of what it is.
I'm so embarrassed.

MATT: You all eventually find yourselves to rest,
tasks completed to the extent of which you wanted

to, conversations finished. You find yourselves at
breakfast, a delightful spread of breakfast

chickens prepared for you.

MARISHA: I pick one up off the table and I say,
hey Vex! (whoosh)

LAURA: Shit! I'm not even on my-- (grunt)

MATT: All of you duck instinctively as the chicken
has enough time to arc and begin to plummet down

before she gets her arrow out, and you see her
aiming downward as it falls. As she releases the

arrow, it manages to catch it. Go ahead and roll
for an attack, see how well it hits.

LAURA: Oh, that's good. 30?

MATT: (arrow impact)

LAURA: Oh, wait, 28, 28.

MATT: (slightly quieter arrow impact)

It pins the chicken to the wall, and then it just
sags. The wooden shaft slowly snaps under the

weight of the chicken before it hits the ground.
One of the servants scoops it up and sets it back

on the table in front of Keyleth with the broken
arrow shaft sticking out.

MARISHA: I like that game. It's my new favorite
game.

LIAM: Do you want some more broom target
practice?

LAURA: I need to practice with this broom.

LIAM: You do need to practice, seriously.

MARISHA: We have more chickens.

TRAVIS: We've got stuff to do.

LAURA: Yeah, we have stuff to do.

LIAM: I'm still eating. I would love to see you,
for five minutes, get up on that broom and fly

around and fucking put some arrows in some
chickens.

LAURA: All right, fine, I'll fucking practice.
Does it help me at all to practice on this broom?

LIAM: It helps me.

SAM: I will command seven servants to each have a
loaded chicken at the ready.

LIAM: Pull!

LAURA: I start flying.

SAM: Vax, you can do the honors and say the
pulls.

LAURA: I clench really hard with my thighs to try
to hold on to this broom.

MATT: As the rest of you enjoy what is the
strangest of Medieval Times experiences you've

had, glancing upward to the raised ceiling of this
dining room area, you watch Vex spiral around on

her broom before, Scanlan?

SAM: Vax is saying pull.

LIAM: Pull!

TALIESIN: (chicken clucking)

MATT: Roll, with disadvantage.

LAURA: Oh, Jesus. Okay.

TRAVIS: Say it. Say it!

LAURA: One!

TALIESIN: Easiest number to count to.

MATT: So as the first chicken goes in the air, she
reaches and goes to aim. However, she catches

herself. The broom throws her off, and she stops
just in time and haphazardly focuses on just the

chicken, not realizing where the chicken had now
fallen past. Releases it. Scanlan, I want you to

make a dexterity saving throw.

SAM: Nine.

MATT: Go ahead and roll damage.

LAURA: Okay, that's not that bad. Damage? Oh, it's
automatic hit?

MATT: Yeah.

LAURA: Okay. Oh, no.

LIAM: Full damage.

LAURA: That's 17.

MATT: So, Scanlan, as you're watching this,
chewing, suddenly, (impact).

SAM: (screaming)

LAURA: Shit! Scanlan, Scanlan, I'm so sorry! I
land, I land. I land and I instantly cast Cure

Wounds on him. Fuck, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm
sorry.

MATT: A big old chicken dangling at the end of the
arrow.

LAURA: Pike! Pike, help, help, help, help!

TRAVIS: I'm just applauding. Again! Again! I pick
up my chicken and I throw it at Scanlan.

TALIESIN: Does this mean when the night's over
there's going to be a little pool of blood where

the door was?

MATT: You'll find out. Go ahead and roll for
healing.

LAURA: Oh, God, okay.

MATT: As Vex reaches out and grasps you and
manages to heal some of your wounds.

LAURA: Oh, good, that's good. It's just 1d8, do I
add anything?

MATT: 1d8 plus your wisdom modifier.

LAURA: 11.

MATT: So you heal 11 hit points.

SAM: Can I pull out the arrow?

MATT: Sure. A gout of blood sprays out.

LAURA: I hold my hand there. Pike, can you help?

ASHLEY: I'll help, I'll help. That broom is
amazing!

MARISHA: Isn't it, Pike?

ASHLEY: Yes! And there are too many chickens in
here, anyway. Healing Scanlan.

MATT: Pike, you're just casting a Cure Wounds?

ASHLEY: Yes, I'll cast Cure Wounds.

MATT: The wound closes as Pike reaches out and,
with a small chuckle, heals how many hit points?

LIAM: The chicken comes back to life!

ASHLEY: What did you say, Matt?

MATT: How much do you heal? Roll 1d8 plus five,
I'm pretty sure. That was amazing.

LAURA: Sorry, Scanlan. You can blame my brother.

ASHLEY: Nine.

SAM: I'm back.

MATT: You're back to full. The wounds close.
Pike's there holding her hands on your shoulders,

closing the wound.

SAM: Thank you, Pike.

ASHLEY: You're welcome.

SAM: All right. Well, let's say breakfast is
over.

LAURA: I'm going to practice a bit more, you
guys.

MATT: The other servants are holding their
chickens at the ready.

SAM: Pull.

MARISHA: Go, go, go!

ASHLEY: Can I try punching one in the air with my
new gauntlets?

MATT: Okay. As he's about to throw it up, Pike
runs over and grabs the chicken and throws it and

(boom) punches it in the air. Pike, roll a
strength check. Roll a d20 and add plus four to it.

LIAM: 20 chicken McNuggets fly through the air.

ASHLEY: This is so dumb, why am I doing this? What
am I doing?

MATT: Roll a d20, add four to it.

LIAM: For the greater good.

ASHLEY: Okay, it's not that high. 11.

MATT: 11, okay. You (boom) bat it up with a Pike
punch. We'll say for the sake of brevity on this,

go ahead and roll one more attack, and this will
count for the rest of the shots. With

disadvantage.

LAURA: Oh, come on. 16.

MATT: 16, okay. You do manage to recover your
sense of self-esteem as you manage to pin a couple

more chickens against the walls and the table in
here, but each arrow is just a reminder of the one

stray that began this whole breakfast excursion.

LAURA: Sorry about that, Scanlan.

SAM: Great job, Vex.

MARISHA: Guys, this is the best brunch we've ever
done.

LIAM: I will never forget it.

MARISHA: That was great. Thank you for that,
Scanlan.

SAM: Sure, sure.

LAURA: We should probably get a start on a walk.

MARISHA: Yeah, so, question, before we leave, you
guys--

TALIESIN: This is going to make the archery booth
at Renn Faire hilarious. Sorry, okay. Carry on.

MARISHA: Do we want to travel via Wind Walk, or
are we okay?

SAM: We're only eight hours away?

TALIESIN: It's only eight hours. Save your
strength.

MARISHA: Because I can save my strength.

LAURA: Yeah, yeah, save it.

MARISHA: Okay. All right. Thank you.

LAURA: We might come across some orcs.

MARISHA: That's true.

TRAVIS: Hopefully. Shit.

LAURA: I know, right? I could use some.

SAM: All right, let's set out.

MATT: You guys say good-bye to your servants,
gather yourselves as you step out and the door

closes behind you. Do you choose to leave the
spell up, or are you going to fade it as you walk along?

SAM: If I leave it up, can anyone go in there?

MATT: Anyone that you allow into it.

TALIESIN: I want to see if the blood comes out.

SAM: No, I'll shut the door and hide the key under
a rock.

MATT: Okay. You guys continue walking southward
towards the Frostweald. About another seven to

eight hours of travel along that way, you begin to
see the Stormcrest Mountains in the distance get

closer and loom larger and larger, and you get the
feel of the Stormcrest Mountains especially

because there is a very large storm surge that
seems to rise from the ocean to the east of it

that has caused a very heavy thunderstorm that's
blasting through. You can't see the peaks of the

mountains from this distance. There are clusters
of trees and forest areas along, but ahead of you,

you can see, coated in a very, very bright,
visibly white forest, this is the Frostweald

itself, with snowfall. Once again, you've been
here before, and there is an essence, and you

don't recall the specific reason for it, but there
is a purpose, an ancient purpose, as to why this

one area is perpetually sitting in the heart of
winter. Amongst what is a relatively temperate, in

some places almost tropical temperature layer, it
is very strange, and part of the mystical calling

to the Frostweald is that it is perpetually locked
in a winter state. You-- don't worry, I'm working

on it.

MARISHA: Keyleth takes a second to meditate on the
previous time that we were here in the Frostweald,

and I cast Find the Path. 6th-level spell. Which
gives me the most direct, shortest route as long

as I'm on the same plane existence of where I'm
going, if I have a vague idea of where I'm going.

MATT: Where are you going?

SAM: We're going to the Stormcrest Mountains,
right?

MARISHA: We're trying to get to the Stormcrest
Mountains through, but we're also looking for the

band of orcs travelling.

MATT: If you name a destination on another plane
of existence, a destination that moves, or a

destination that isn't specific, such as a green
dragon's lair, the spell fails.

MARISHA: But we're in the Frostweald, right?

MATT: Yes. You're approaching it now.

MARISHA: Is the Frostweald considered on a
different plane?

MATT: No. But do you have a specific location that
you're familiar with that you want to go to?

MARISHA: Well, I can find us the shortest, most
direct route to the Stormcrest Mountains.

SAM: Have we been there?

MATT: Yeah, you can see them. I'm trying to figure
out. For the spell to work, you have to choose a

specific location that you're already familiar
with to lead you to it.

MARISHA: Right.

MATT: So what are you saying?

MARISHA: Stormcrest Mountains. But just because I
can see them doesn't necessarily mean we're going

to find the most direct path, shortest direct path
towards it.

MATT: That's true.

MARISHA: Right? Or is this a waste of a spell
and I should just do something else?

MATT: I will give you the benefit to say that you
can see the mountain range. This is more useful if

it's trying to find a place that you're very
familiar with, seen a picture of, or you had a

very specific bit of information for it. For a
general location or a location that you're unaware

of, the spell wouldn't have an effect.

LAURA: Maybe you could think of the location of
her mate, the sphinx's mate.

MARISHA: I don't know it, so it fails. That's why
I was trying to do Stormcrest Mountains, but

apparently that's not specific enough.

LAURA: Well, is it specific? It's just we can
see them.

LIAM: Yeah, it's right there.

MATT: It's a large range that's very visible.

LIAM: Let's move on, let's move on.

MARISHA: I'll do something else.

TALIESIN: Save it for something special.

MATT: So as you guys press forward to the outside
of the Frostweald, the snow- and ice-covered

treeline is a very familiar sight from your last
time traveling here. There are canopies of

pine-like trees that interlock with windless
snowfall, that leave a fairly dark interior set

from the frozen-over canopy. Slick surfaces and
knee-deep snowbanks permeate this entire forest

region. Your breath is immediately visible as you
step past that threshold, and the temperature

drops about 40 degrees from what it was before,
getting steadily colder the further in you travel.

LAURA: Bet you're glad you have that beard now,
huh? Keeps you warm? No?

TRAVIS: It's actually quite nice out here. This is
like spring for me.

LIAM: Are your people-- Did you grow up in the
cold?

TRAVIS: Yeah, we're pretty cool.

LIAM: Wow.

MATT: Pressing in, as the temperature drops
further and further, you occasionally come across

a broken sunbeam that manages to penetrate
aspects, different places in the canopy, and even

stepping into those, they don't lend any change in
temperature or warmth. The enchantment that

surrounds this entire forest doesn't seem to be
moved by such natural incursions. Everyone go

ahead and roll a perception check.

LAURA: 25. Are we in the woods? 29.

TRAVIS: Two.

MARISHA: 18.

TALIESIN: 15.

SAM: 20.

ASHLEY: 25.

MATT: As you guys are walking through, keeping
your eyes peeled, Vax, you're so lost in thought

that your eyes glaze over for a second and you
forget where you are. Pike and Vex, the two of you

get a little bit ahead of the rest of the group,
pushing through the snow. You come around from a

tree and you can see, this is about an hour or so
into your entrance to the Frostweald, you see a

small clearing with a few patchy trees outside of
the heavy canopy, and what appears to be a couple

of small stone ruins and a single obelisk, a
monolith-like pillar of stone that juts out of the

snow. It's about 200 feet away from you guys, 250
feet.

LAURA: Can we see anything around it? Any people,
any trace of tracks in the snow?

MATT: From this distance, no. You don't see any,
there are no figures, there is no movement. There

is just that stone piece that, at a slight angle,
stands out amongst the rest of the treeline.

TRAVIS: What do you see?

LAURA: There's a, look. There's a fucking obelisk.
It's a tall stone thing, Grog.

TRAVIS: Yeah? So?

SAM: Let's go over.

TRAVIS: Yeah.

TALIESIN: Vex, you and I should hang back, but
we'll let everyone else.

MARISHA: It's a big obelisk? Are there any birds
or anything like that around?

MATT: Listening, that's what's interesting.
Usually forests, because they're teeming with so

much life, there's a perpetual sound of things
that live amongst the boughs and the treeline.

Because it's so cold here, it's eerily silent.
Every footfall that hits the snow, you can hear

the crunch resounding and echoing through the
nearby vicinity. It is just a still, silent

atmosphere in this forest.

LAURA: (clanging) Pike!

TRAVIS: Let me check if it's safe to move on. And
I reach down and scoop up a handful of snow,

right? Just snow? How's it taste?

MATT: It's the clearest snow you've tasted in a
long time.

TRAVIS: Shit's crazy pure, yo.

SAM: So then we're safe to move ahead?

TRAVIS: Yeah, we're good. Let's go check out the
scary obelisk.

LIAM: Everybody starts inhaling snow.

MATT: Are you moving ahead, Grog?

TRAVIS: I'm moving ahead. Who wants to come with
me to the obelisk?

LAURA: I'm going to hide behind a tree and watch.

LIAM: To the what? What obelisk?

TRAVIS: For what? Why are you hiding?

LAURA: I'm just going to keep guard!

MARISHA: I'll come with you, Grog.

TRAVIS: There's nobody out here.

TALIESIN: I've had bad luck touching things
lately. I'm letting other people touch things.

MATT: Grog, Keyleth.

SAM: Pike's coming.

MATT: So Grog, Keyleth, Pike, and Scanlan are all
going forward. Looks like Vex, Vax, and Percy are

staying.

TALIESIN: I'm getting another angle so that we
have two different vantage points of what may

happen.

LAURA: Getting a little closer, but keeping.

MATT: Are you going with Percy?

LIAM: I'm brainfarting, so I'm just following
Percy.

MATT: Okay. Percy and Vax splinter off to the
left, Vex you go ahead and take the right, and you

head around this clearing while the rest of you
walk into the center of it.

TALIESIN: We're keeping an eye on that thing in
the--

LIAM: Look at that!

TALIESIN: I know, it's a thing. We're going to let
Grog touch it and see what happens.

MATT: You guys approach, and as you're stepping
through the snowfall, which right now is, for you,

up to just past your knees, like the grass was.
For Keyleth it's just up to your waist. Scanlan,

you and Pike are both (grunting) like the dogs
jumping through the snow that vanish with each

leap as you're having to find your way through
this heavy snowfall.

TRAVIS: Do you guys want a ride?

SAM: Yes, please.

TRAVIS: I pick up each gnome on my shoulders.

ASHLEY: Thanks, Grog!

TRAVIS: No problem!

MATT: Go ahead and make an investigation check as
you guys approach this obelisk.

SAM: 25.

TRAVIS: It's a two, minus three.

MARISHA: 11.

MATT: What did you get, Pike?

ASHLEY: 14.

MATT: 14, okay. So as you guys approach, from this
vantage point, it's carved, definitely, and the

carving is very old. Weathered somewhat, but not
too heavily, so it's either not very old or

there's not a whole lot of weather that comes
through here, and by the stillness of the wind

since you've entered, you get the feeling
that's probably more the case. It's hard to gauge

how old or how long it's been here. But there are
various carvings amongst it. There is a big

symbol. I want to have you guys roll a religion
check real fast.

TRAVIS: Awesome. What the fuck. Natural one.

LAURA: You need to not use that dice right now.

SAM: 12.

MARISHA: Religion? Nine.

MATT: Pike?

ASHLEY: 15.

MATT: 15, okay. It looks familiar, but you're
having a hard time really getting the essence.

Pike, you recognize this. This is not the largely
understood or most commonly utilized symbol of

Ioun, but it is a very ancient, the basis of the
religion of Ioun, which is the same goddess of

knowledge that Osysa was overseeing the temple
beneath.

ASHLEY: Wait, how do you spell it?

MATT: Ioun. I-O-U-N. You actually carry a stone,
enchanted with the essence of Ioun's knowledge.

SAM: Oh, that's my Ion Stone! Ioun Stone!

TRAVIS: Is it made of, it's stone?

MATT: It's solid, solid stone, and goes up about
35 feet or so.

TRAVIS: Hey, Scanlan, I heard if you touch your
tongue to something like this, it'll stick.

SAM: Wow. Wow, we should probably try that out.
Keyleth?

MARISHA: What?

SAM: Can you go lick that obelisk?

MARISHA: Hell no.

TRAVIS: Why not?

MARISHA: I know that one. But you should do it,
Grog. I can't do it, just because of my elven

abilities. It's our saliva, it doesn't work the
same way. But you should try it, it's crazy.

TALIESIN: Keyleth, that was very clever.

SAM: How far are we?

MATT: You guys are about ten feet from it.

SAM: I'm going to just look around it for any
traps.

MATT: Okay. Make an investigation check.

SAM: 18.

MATT: 18, okay. You have to leap off Grog and
start wading through. You're finding pieces of

broken stone, smaller chunks about that big and
bits of stone dust that are scattered amongst the

snow. You push around, because you see the ruined
walls around. You do find a larger piece of stone

that looks like a broken statue, like there must
have been some sort of a statue here that had lost

the hand, and it's stumbled there on the ground.

MARISHA: Upon him seeing that, I pull out my Hunk
of Quall and see if it lights up.

SAM: Oh, you have to concentrate on it.

TALIESIN: Are there orcs present?

MATT: (laughs)

TALIESIN: I knew someone would laugh at that.

MATT: You hold it aloft. It has a small vibration
of energy, as part of the crystal sliver itself,

but it doesn't seem to change in the environment.

MARISHA: Can I move a little bit closer to the
obelisk?

MATT: As you're stepping closer to the obelisk,
you also notice there is some writing or some sort

of scripture that is carved towards the base, that
is partially buried by the snow that has gathered

at its base. You find more pieces of statues.
Arms, part of a torso, like somebody had knocked

over a series of statues. A lot of them have deep
grooves in them, like these statues were either

carved to pieces, like they were physically torn
down--

TALIESIN: Are you describing what you're seeing at
all?

SAM: Sure.

TALIESIN: I can't have a reaction to this unless
I'm actually hearing anything.

MARISHA: I do Control Water. Can I do Control
Water and clear away all the snow from around it?

MATT: It takes you a little bit of concentration
because it's in a different state than liquid, but

you begin to focus, and as you guys are watching,
Keyleth focusing, a lot of the ice begins to

rapidly melt into a water form and it begins to
melt away, leaving the wet, muddy ground around it.

SAM: These statues that have been broken. They
have gashes and slashes in them?

MATT: Yes, around the areas where they're broken.

SAM: Okay.

TALIESIN: Can I see the statues at this point?

MATT: From this distance? You can't,
unfortunately.

TALIESIN: I want to get a little closer, just so I
can make out the statues.

MATT: Okay. As the snowfall begins to melt away,
you guys see around the base of this obelisk it is

a garden of statue-pieces.

SAM: Hey, hey guys!

TALIESIN: Are they classical statues or are they
people in weird poses? Are the poses weird?

MATT: Some poses look aggressive, some poses look
surprised--

SAM: Okay, everybody hey hey hey.

TALIESIN: Back up, everybody. Back up now.

MATT: And we're going to go ahead and take a break
on that note.

LAURA: We fought basilisks in the Frostweald
before.

LIAM: Basilisks here, yes.

MATT: So. We're going to go ahead and take a quick
break here for the restroom and--

MARISHA: Son of a bitch.

ASHLEY: Son of a bitch.

MATT: See you guys here in a few minutes.

TRAVIS: I don't see what the problem is.

[break]

MATT: Hello, and welcome back, everyone. So. As
the snow is melted away, revealing this garden of

statues in various states of-- some of them are
still solid, some of them are just missing pieces,

some of them are entirely shattered, many of them
crushed or torn, thick, heavy grooves visible on the

pieces of them that have been torn asunder-- the
party begins to gather their thoughts and figure

out what this might be. You did notice as well
that there was writing or script among the bottom

of the obelisk, and as the snow melts away, there is
another large shape that is carved into it.

TRAVIS: Can I hold my hand up to the obelisk and
just feel if there's any, like, heat radiating off

of it?

MATT: Sure. As you walk up to the edge of the
obelisk and put your hand to it, no heat being

radiated.

MARISHA: I pull out the hunk of Quall again.
Anything? Hold it closer to the symbol.

MATT: It does not seem to be reacting to anything
in the immediate vicinity.

TRAVIS: Man, somebody does not like sculptures.

SAM: That--

TALIESIN: Those aren't sculptures.

MARISHA: Can I do a nature check?

TRAVIS: No, it's art, I get it.

MATT: What languages do you know?

TRAVIS: It's like, interpretations and it seems
whimsical--

LAURA: Can I hop on the broom and fly up and see
if I could spot some basilisks around?

MATT: Sure.

ASHLEY: Well, Percy, what do you think they are?

TRAVIS: Where is she going?

MARISHA: Sorry. Elven, Sylvan, Druidic,
Primordial.

MATT: As you walk up and begin to hold the Hunk of
Quall towards it, you see that the language-- the

script that is beneath the initial symbol of Ioun
that Scanlan had seen is Elvish.

MARISHA: Oh, okay.

MATT: The rough translation is of old, old, old
text, it reads, "A name is earned."

MARISHA: A name is earned?

MATT: A name is earned.

TALIESIN: Oh, no.

MATT: And beneath it, there is what appears to
be-- the other large carving you saw on it-- it

looks like a triangle. A dark, recessed triangle
that is just built beneath the text that tapers

internally into a point. It is almost like a
reverse pyramid on the inside. It is just an empty

space that comes to a point.

TALIESIN: Oh, no. I think that there are basilisks
nearby.

LAURA: Do I see any?

TALIESIN: I think these statues are victims.

MARISHA: Can I do a nature check? To see if I can
see any signs of basilisks?

MATT: Sure. Make a nature check and 
you make perception check.

SAM: Are we having a short-- is this a short
rest?

MATT: No.

MARISHA: 21.

MATT: 21.

LAURA: 26.

MATT: 26. You glance up above, and you do not
see any basilisks. What you can see, this clearing

itself is visible from your height, but once
you get above the tree-line, you can see the trees

are pretty thick. You don't see any signs of
basilisks in the vicinity. You, upon looking around

the ground, you can see-- it's very muddy now from
all the snow that had melted down, and you see

that some of the mud is slicking into holes in the
ground. Like four-foot-wide cavernous holes that

were dug, like little burrows that now have all
this water and mud seeping into them.

MARISHA: Oh, it was made by a creature, it looks
like?

MATT: It looks like. Which one of them (bubbling),
expels a bunch of the mud and water, it just comes

bubbling outward. At which point, you see
something burst out and emerge onto the ground

nearby. More of these holes start bursting forth,
all the mud and liquid that has seeped into it is now

being forced outward, and these creatures, now
covered in mud, you can see long, lizard-like

bodies with a toothy snout, multiple legs, rows of
them of them down the spine, and its tail

flickering about.

LIAM: I'm closing my eyes.

LAURA: Don't look at them!

MATT: I would like you all to roll initiative.

MARISHA: Fuck. Shit. I'm standing right in the
middle of them.

TRAVIS: Fuck you.

MARISHA: Got the fucking shittiest initiative
rolls.

ASHLEY: Yikes.

TALIESIN: I have a terrible initiative roll.

SAM: Okay, this is it.

TRAVIS: Feral Instinct's screwing me up.

SAM: Battle in the snow. But we've got Ashley.

MATT: It's hard to see with the mud across their
surface, but you do see hints of blue coming

through. You have encountered these previously--
these are referred to as the ice-scaled basilisks,

the ones that are more specific to this indigenous
region. All righty. So, going by initiative order

here, folks, 25 to 20?

LAURA: 22.

MATT: 22.

TRAVIS: Percy?

MATT: 20 to 15?

LIAM: 18.

SAM: 19.

MATT: 15 to ten?

TALIESIN: 13.

TRAVIS: 11.

MATT: All right.

TALIESIN: I rolled really badly.

TRAVIS: Yeah.

LAURA: Pike?

ASHLEY: I know, I know, my initiative is always
shit.

TRAVIS: Welcome back, Pike!

LAURA: She likes to get the lay of the land before
she attacks.

ASHLEY: Yeah, yeah, you know, I do the clean-up.

MATT: Is that everybody?

MARISHA: Pike.

ASHLEY: I'm eight.

MATT: Pike? Oh. All right. Due to the series of
rolls here, they're going last.

SAM: Oh!

MATT: They rolled a five, minus one penalty to
dex. So, as these-- which more of them burst up

right next to Scanlan right there.

SAM: Oh, great.

MATT: As they all burst out of the ground, shaking
their heads off of the mud, swinging off, slapping

into the stone, splattering across the white snow
around them, across some of you, they snarl and

hiss. As you see their eyes now (click).

LIAM: Merry Christmas.

MATT: So, top of this would be you, Vex. You
actually would be on top here, on the broom,

looking from above.

LAURA: We can't look at them, right? We remember
that from before?

MATT: You remember, you'll want to try not to.

LAURA: Can we-- we can look at them to
shoot at them and look away? Just don't look at

them at all?

MATT: You can choose at the start of your turn whether
to avert your gaze or not. You'll have

disadvantage on pretty much everything as long as
you're doing that.

LAURA: Ah, that's so annoying! I can't tell how
everybody's clumped. They're-- just

basically they're all amongst all of our friends.

MATT: There's three right here, and one right
there behind. It's one, two, three, four.

LAURA: Okay. Can I fly down and land on a tall
tree?

MATT: You can try to.

LAURA: Try to brace myself?

MATT: If you would like to try to.

LAURA: Yeah.

MATT: Let's say for the purposes of this, that you
coast down to the height. Stupid broom. Let's say

you land down somewhere over here.

LAURA: Okay.

MATT: All righty? There you are.

LAURA: Okay. I avert my gaze-ish, I look off to
the side of one, but I can see it in my

peripheral, is that how it goes, or it's like--?

MATT: You kind of guess where it is real fast, in
the peripheral and kind of--

LAURA: I Hunter's Mark one.

MATT: Which one?

TRAVIS: Laser pointer.

LAURA: Is that Scanlan? That it's next to?

LIAM: Yeah, it's Scanlan next to one of them.

LAURA: I do the one next to Scanlan-- That was my
eye. That's just a flashlight. Oh, that's how I do

it, okay.

MATT: And what are you doing?

LAURA: I'm going to--

LIAM: Professional D&D player.

LAURA: That's right. And I'm going to shoot it!

MATT: Go for it.

LAURA: Through the Blazing Bowstring.

MATT: Okay. So go ahead and roll with disadvantage
for the first strike.

LAURA: Oh, I don't get regular because it's my
favored terrain, so I cancel it all out?

MATT: It's disadvantage for averting your gaze,
advantage for being your favored terrain-- I

don't think you get advantage on attacks for being
in favored terrain, do you? I think it's just on

ability checks.

LAURA: Okay.

MATT: Yeah. So you're at disadvantage.

LAURA: I'm at disadvantage.

MATT: I'll double-check this so the internet
doesn't scream at me.

LAURA: 18.

MATT: 18 with disadvantage?

LAURA: Yeah.

MATT: That still hits. Go ahead and roll damage.

LAURA: Plus the Blazing Bowstring, plus an
additional d10.

MATT: First attack on the basilisk near Scanlan.

LAURA: 17.

MATT: 17 damage? All right, go ahead and roll for
the second attack, with disadvantage as well.

LAURA: 17.

MATT: 17 does hit as well. So roll for that one.
You included the Blazing Bowstring for the first

one, right?

LAURA: Yes. 15 on the second.

MATT: 15 points of damage. Holding on the top of
the tree, which is starting to bow a little bit

with your weight, and you're clutching the broom
under one arm, and you pull back and release two

arrows in succession, both finding their mark. You
did Hunter's Mark damage on top of those?

LAURA: Yes I did.

MATT: All right, good. You see, Scanlan, as you
try and avert your gaze momentarily as you see the

giant creature there, and you recall, two arrows
streak past, which gives you a little PTSD, based

on your morning. So that'll complete your turn?

LAURA: Yeah.

MATT: All right. Scanlan, you're up.

SAM: It's right next to me?

MATT: Yes. Are you averting your gaze or not?

SAM: I'm averting my gaze.

MATT: All righty.

SAM: Well jeez, I mean, do I know where they are?

MATT: You saw them all burst out, once they
shook off the mud, you heard her shouting and

you were like, oh, hmm.

SAM: So I kind of know where they are. All right.
I'm going to hop away five

feet from the guy who's-- I'm going to get an
attack-- yeah, that's a fine direction, sure.

MATT: It lunges out at you with a strike.

SAM: Yeah.

MATT: That is a 22 to hit?

SAM: Yeah.

MATT: All righty. As you pull away, pain strikes
your body as the sharp, stone-crumbling teeth of

the basilisk reach out and pierce your body for 12
points of piercing damage. You wrestle your elbow

out of the way, you can feel the wound beneath
your leather armor.

TALIESIN: That's barely an arrow and a chicken in
the neck.

SAM: (laughs) Okay. And I'm going to aim to the
one in the middle there-- does anyone have a

pointer? Yeah, that one. The other two are within
20 feet of him, yes?

MATT: Yes.

SAM: So I will cast a Wand of Fireballs right
there on him.

LAURA: Yeah!

MATT: On him or behind him, or where--?

SAM: Just behind him so it hits all three?

MATT: Right, and not yourself.

SAM: Yes?

MATT: I figured that's probably what you want to do, 
okay. As you back up, release it in that direction, the beam of

light streaks out from the wand, hitting the
snowbank right behind it and exploding. Already

the slushy atmosphere is-- snow and fire scatter
around it as they both screech out in pain. DC of what?

SAM: Oh! DC 15! I wrote it down.

MATT: 15. That's... first one fails. Second one
rolled a 15, with its minus one dex, that's a 14,

that's a fail. And a natural one. So full damage
for all three of them. Go ahead and roll that 8d6.

Vax, you're on deck, so be ready.

LIAM: All right, okay.

SAM: 25!

MATT: 25 points of damage total.

The flames subside after the force of the
explosion. The obelisk itself shakes from the

impact. The three basilisks look notably charred,
whatever mud was on them is immediately dried

and is now cracking on the outside of their
scales. You hear the hissing at their presence.

You want to keep moving or stay where you are?

SAM: I'll tuck around the obelisk a little bit.

MATT: Okay.

SAM: And I'll turn to Pike, my love, and inspire
her with a song. I will sing, (singing) I used to

scry you on the shit phone...

(laughter)

SAM: (singing) Late-night when I need your love! I
know when that poop phone glows, it can only be

one gnome! Ever since you left the party, you,
you--

(laughter)

TRAVIS: Yes!

MATT: Take your d10 inspiration die, Pike. All
right, so d10 inspiration die for you. Vax,

you're up.

LIAM: Yes. I'm going to click my heels together,
set the boots going. I'm going to go very far away

towards you, your end of the map. I want to be
about a little away from the tree, though, so I've

got a clear sight on that one-- further
back, though. I know. I want to be 50 feet away. Yeah.

MATT: Okay. You're far away, you're off-map.

LIAM: And I'm going to dagger-dagger-dagger him from
very far away.

MATT: Okay.

ASHLEY: Dagger-dagger-dagger!

LIAM: And I'm going to use that sharpshooter trick
where I take a negative five to attack, but add

ten to damage?

MATT: Okay. Go for it.

LAURA: On all of them?

MATT: Are you averting your gaze?

LIAM: No.

SAM: Whoa!

MATT: All right, so at the start of your turn, on
your first part of the round, I want you to go

ahead and make a constitution saving throw.

LIAM: From this far away?

MATT: When you started your turn, you were in
melee.

LIAM: Okay. So constitution?

MATT: Constitution saving throw.

LIAM: 16.

MATT: 16 total?

LIAM: Yes.

MATT: Okay. The gaze is upon you as you glance
over and see the basilisk turn its head over its

shoulder at you and hisses, and the eyes catch
you. You can feel the magical effects take hold

of your body for a moment. You back away and
quickly close your eyes, and you can feel that it

begin to reach over but you shake it off.

LIAM: Oh yeah! Gamble worked out, man!

MATT: So you do not have disadvantage in these
attacks.

LIAM: Yeah, I know.

MATT: Minus five for each attack.

LIAM: First one, and advantage because I'm going
before it, so the first one is 18.

MATT: 18 hits.

LIAM: Second is 14. And the third is 27.

MATT: First hits, last hits.

LIAM: Last hits?

MATT: Yes.

LIAM: Okay. First one gets sneak attack damage,
and plus ten to both hits because of the

sharpshooter.

MATT: Correct.

LIAM: Right. So, here we go.

LAURA: (singing) There can only be one gnome.

LIAM: I can't think! 33.... 43 for the first one.

SAM: 43?!

LIAM: No-no-no... 43 plus... 49 for the first
one.

MATT: 49 points of damage.

LIAM: And the last one that hits is 19.
Sharpshooter.

MATT: As you run backwards, at the basilisk
glaring back at you, its toothy mouth opening and

the breath out, you shake it off. Throw the
daggers. One (impact) sticks into one eye, and the

other just (impact) into the other, and it--

(cheering)

MARISHA: Damn!

LAURA: That was fast.

MATT: The snow nearby is spattered with this kind
of dark-purple basilisk blood.

SAM: Ugh! My eyes...

LAURA: (gasp) Basilisk blood! We need to take the
basilisk blood! Remember, that's super good...

MARISHA: Yes! Yup. Uh-huh.

MATT: You want to stay where you are?

LIAM: I will take another ten feet back away from
it all. Bye, guys!

MATT: All right. Percy, you're up.

TALIESIN: Okay!

MATT: Avert your gaze or... ?

TALIESIN: No.

MATT: Roll a constitution save.

MARISHA: Gamblers!

LIAM: (singing) You got to know when to hold 'em!

TALIESIN: That's a... (counts) 21 points.

MATT: 21?

TALIESIN: Constitution save.

SAM: Oh, it's a save! That's right!

MATT: What did you roll?

TALIESIN: I rolled a 14 plus seven.

MATT: That's great!

TALIESIN: I look at it in the eye.

MATT: You stare it down and it kind of (snarls).

TALIESIN: (barks) Bark it down.

MATT: Orthax has left his mark on you.

TALIESIN: I know. I cast Hex on it. I'm looking at
the one she's Hunter's Marked, I cast Hex.

LAURA: Ooh, nice!

LIAM: Are you gonna bark all day, little doggie?

MATT: Same one that she's Hunter's Marked?

TALIESIN: Yeah. And I'm taking... I'm giving it a
disadvantage on willpower ability checks.

MATT: Okay.

TALIESIN: And I'm going to take three shots with
Sharpshooter.

MATT: Go for it.

TALIESIN: 12. Misses.

MATT: Misses, unfortunately.

TALIESIN: Oh my god, goodbye! Going to the good
die, 12.... Better! 24.

MATT: Yeah, third shot hits. Go ahead and roll damage.
With the Hex damage as well.

TALIESIN: Oh my god! I'm sucking. 22 points of
damage.

MATT: 22 points of damage. So the first shot goes
wide. Second shot goes wide again. For some

reason, it's moving faster than you expected at
this moment, missing your sights. The third shot

manages to find the front of its nose and
(shattering) the front of its skull shatters and

it kind of crumbles to the ground.

TALIESIN: So, while shooting, I ran from that one
tree all the way to the other one. That was a

running shot, so...

MATT: Okay, so you run this way?

TALIESIN: Yeah.

LIAM: It was a lot harder the last time.

TALIESIN: Behind the tree over there.

MATT: Over here? Because you can only get 
about that far with your running.

TALIESIN: About there.

MATT: Right there? Okay. Then you got behind
there. That's fine. All right, that ends your

turn, Percy. Grog, you're up.

TRAVIS: I would like to avert my gaze, and go into
an averted-gaze rage! (growls)

(laughter)

TRAVIS: And I would like to run at that little
bastard right there.

MATT: All right.

LIAM: (Grog voice) I can't see you but I'm so
angry!

TRAVIS: I'm using my Feral-- no, that's wrong. I'm
using my... what the fuck is it called?

TALIESIN: Slap Fight. Hair Pull.

TRAVIS: I've totally forgotten what's it called. What
the fuck is it? Reckless Attack!

MATT: All right, there you go.

TRAVIS: Yes. So can I cancel out the disadvantage
and get just a normal roll?

MATT: Yes, you would have a normal roll on this.

TRAVIS: Yes! And Great Weapon Master on these two
strikes.

MATT: All right.

TRAVIS: Shit! Nine.

MATT: (whoosh)

TRAVIS: (yells) (laughs) Shit! Nope.

LAURA: It's a bad luck night for Grog rolling!

MATT: You rush forward (sword swinging). You
thought it was there, you're sure it was there,

you heard it hiss. It's about two inches below
where you swung.

TRAVIS: I'm so mad that I come out of my rage
because I don't hit anything, right?

MATT: You don't have to hit it. You have to
attack. There's a difference.

TRAVIS: Well, I've been swinging.

MATT: Yeah. (laughs) Ending Grog's turn, Keyleth,
you're up.

MARISHA: How many are left? Two?

MATT: There are two left.

MARISHA: I am remembering what the basilisks did
last time, and I've only done this once before,

and am going to go...

MATT: Avert your gaze or not?

MARISHA: I'm looking down and transforming into a
giant scorpion.

TALIESIN: Scorpions are fascinating.

SAM: How so? They don't have eyes, or something?

MARISHA: Yeah, they have blindsight.

SAM: Wait, what does that mean?

MARISHA: It means they don't use their eyes to see
things. They have blindsight.

MATT: So Scanlan, as you're averting your gaze,
you glance over as Keyleth goes (poof) into this

giant scorpion, big tail, big pincers, black and
red carapace. It's upsetting.

SAM: I'm scared.

MARISHA: (clicking pincers)

TALIESIN: That's really upsetting.

MARISHA: Where are they? The two are kind of in
the middle there?

SAM: One's next to Grog.

MARISHA: Okay. I'm going to move in between them
and I'm going to do a multiattack on both of

those. I'll start on the one that Grog's not
focusing on.

MATT: Okay, go for it.

MARISHA: So I have three attacks, two with my
claws and one with my stinger.

MATT: Do it. Disadvantage on all attacks.

MARISHA: No, why?

MATT: Because you averted your gaze.

MARISHA: No, I didn't. I have blindsight as a
scorpion.

MATT: Right, but at the start of your turn, before
anything happens, is when it happens. Did you

avert your gaze or not?

MARISHA: No, I turned into a scorpion.

MATT: Before that happened, at the start of your
turn, did you avert your gaze or not?

LIAM: You said you averted your gaze.

MARISHA: I said I looked down, but once I'm a
scorpion, I have blindsight.

MATT: Right, but the effect takes place before
your transformation happens. So, yes or no, do you

want to take the advantage or not?

MARISHA: Well, I said I looked down and turned
into a scorpion to try and avoid it, so... I mean,

I did, yeah.

MATT: All right, so disadvantage on the attacks.

MARISHA: That's the whole reason I did the
scorpion.

SAM: But it's also looking cool.

LAURA: It's okay, from here on out, you're fine.

MARISHA: Miss. Six misses, for the first one.
That's a three, it misses again. Nope, that's a

two. Last one is an eight, plus a four... So
that's 12. Probably still nothing.

MATT: Let me think here for a second. The scorpion
has blindsight?

SAM: Starring Ashley Johnson! Blindsight!

TALIESIN: How did we not walk into that? How have
we been sitting here and that didn't happen?

MARISHA: That legitimately made me spit my fucking
coffee in my face.

MATT: No, you're right. I was thinking more in
terms of it averting the magical power of the

basilisk, but you could still avert and blindsight
would allow you to still know where it is without

having the disadvantage, so yes.

LIAM: Although with coffee in the eye,
disadvantage is back.

MATT: This is true. I'll let you reroll those
attacks.

MARISHA: All three? Okay, I wish I remembered
them. Do you want me to reroll all three?

MATT: Just reroll all three. That's on me. I was
thinking in wrong terms.

SAM: Matt, you're the worst.

MATT: I know. I know, I am the worst.

MARISHA: Jeez, I'm going to tweet at you later
about this.

TALIESIN: Actually Matt, how blindsight works...

MATT: They've already been sent, I'm sure.

TALIESIN: I'm shutting the fuck up now.

MARISHA: These are just straight, they don't have
disadvantage? First attack, 14.

MATT: 14 does not hit, unfortunately.

MARISHA: Second attack was a natural 18, so 22.

MATT: That does hit. And for the tail?

MARISHA: For the tail, 16.

MATT: 16 hits. That was my bad.

LIAM: Just a bunch of idiots dorking around,
guys.

TALIESIN: There is coffee everywhere.

MARISHA: That's not very much. Four damage for the
claw attack, and then for the sting, oh my god.

Three damage, and they have to take a constitution
saving throw.

MATT: 15, what's the DC?

MARISHA: 12.

MATT: Yeah, so it makes the save.

MARISHA: Fuck.

SAM: Yeah, Keyleth, good one!

MARISHA: Okay, they take 4d10 poison, and on a
failed save, they take half as much.

MATT: Okay, so roll 4d10.

SAM: 4d10 is a lot!

LAURA: You should be a scorpion all the time!

MARISHA: Thanks guys! Wow, these are fucking
horrifying rolls. Six, seven, eight, nine, plus

seven is 16 points of poison damage.

MATT: Total, so that would be eight for half of
it.

MARISHA: No, that is halved.

MATT: Nice, that's not bad at all. All right, so
as your first claw streaks off its armor, the

second one grabs hold and-- hold on a second.

LIAM: I'm listening!

MATT: Thank you.

MARISHA: Sorry, it was eight damage.

TALIESIN: No, you did, because you did half the
dice.

SAM: No, she did 4d10.

TALIESIN: She did 4d10?

MARISHA: Eight damage.

MATT: Eight damage, all right. All right, so as the
first claw streaks across its armor, second one

manages to grab and actually pince onto it,
dealing some damage. As you're holding it there,

the tail strikes inward, manages to pierce the
outside of the scaly basilisk hide. Not as

effective as it could've been, but still you see
its body tense with the sudden pulse of poison in

its system. That brings us to Pike! What's up?

ASHLEY: Okay. Since I can't see it, is there any
way that I can Guiding Bolt one of the basilisks

without hurting anybody?

MATT: Yeah, but for Guiding Bolt I believe it's a
spell attack roll. Am I correct on that? Or does

it automatically hit? I'm trying to remember which
one it is. You guys have so many spells. Guiding

Bolt, yeah. You can totally Guiding Bolt. You'll
have disadvantage on the attack roll, but you can

do it still.

LAURA: Do it, Pike!

ASHLEY: All right, let's do it!

MATT: All right, so go ahead and roll with
disadvantage on the attack.

SAM: Which one, the one near Grog or the one near
scorpion-face?

ASHLEY: Which one would I not hurt anybody?

MATT: It's not so much you hurting anybody, you
wouldn't hit anybody. It's about if you miss or not.

MARISHA: Grog and I can take it anyway.

ASHLEY: Okay.

LIAM: The one by Grog.

ASHLEY: Yeah, we'll do the one by Grog.

MATT: Okay.

ASHLEY: Oh, natural 20!

MATT: But it's with disadvantage, so you have to
roll it again.

LIAM: Say it again.

TALIESIN: One in 20 chance.

ASHLEY: 13.

MATT: With that, unfortunately, as you're holding
your eyes at bay--

SAM: Wait! You're inspired!

MATT: You can add the inspiration dice if you want
to.

ASHLEY: Yeah, I'll add inspiration!

MATT: Okay, so roll a d10 and add that to the
attack. 13 plus...

ASHLEY: Okay, okay, okay. All right, seven. So
20.

MATT: Go ahead and roll damage on Guiding Bolt. So
4d6 radiant damage.

ASHLEY: Okay... 17!

MATT: Nice, all right! 17 points of radiant
damage, and now there is a glowing hue of radiant

light around it, so even though you're not looking
at it, it's a pretty decent beacon, so it gives

advantage on the next attack roll against it. Keep
that in mind. Do you want to move at all or do you

want to stay where you are, Pike?

ASHLEY: I'll stay, yeah, I'll stay.

MATT: All right. Now it is their turn. This one
turns around and it's going to go ahead and make a

bite attack against you, Keyleth, in scorpion
form. That's a 17, plus six?

MARISHA: That hits.

MATT: All right. You take 11, plus three. 14
points of piercing damage, plus seven points of

poison damage.

MARISHA: So that was 21?

TALIESIN: My brain is not doing numbers for some
reason.

MARISHA: I know, and I keep looking at you.

MATT: Against you, Grog... It hits you regardless.
It has advantage on you because you're averting

your gaze, plus you had your reckless attack last
round. It still only rolls a nine, plus six, so

that's 14? 15 to hit.

TRAVIS: Misses.

MATT: This one bites out towards you, and even
though it's not there, because it's so bright, you

see it shift, and you (boom) hit it in the front
of its snout with the base of your sword. That

brings us to the top of the initiative order. Vex,
you're up.

LAURA: Awesome. So it's the glowing one, I get
advantage on the attack, because it's glowing?

MATT: You do, yes.

LAURA: I'm going to Hunter's Mark it.

MATT: Okay, so Hunter's Mark moves over.

LAURA: I'm going to avert my gaze, and roll a
regular attack then? Since it's advantage?

MATT: Yes. It cancels out the disadvantage. So
roll your first attack against it.

LAURA: That's 31.

MATT: 31 hits, yeah.

LAURA: 15 plus Hunter's Mark-- Oh, I didn't
Hunter's Mark it.

MATT and TALIESIN: Yeah, you did.

LAURA: Okay! What did I say, 15? 18.

MATT: 18, all right. So the first arrow strikes
into it. It's still standing. It's looking a

little hurt, but it's still standing.

LAURA: And then do I still get regular attacks?
This is at disadvantage.

MATT: Disadvantage on the next one, yeah.

LAURA: 19?

MATT: Yeah. What's your total? 19 with
disadvantage? That does hit, yep.

LAURA: 18.

MATT: 18, all right. This arrow, however, manages
to strike through the top of the head, stapling

the mouth shut, and it falls to the ground as its
eyes slowly glaze over.

LAURA: I roar from up in the tree!

TALIESIN: Wait, do you let go of the broom to
roar?

LAURA: No, I hold the broom in my hand!

MARISHA: Katy Perry style.

LAURA: Defying Gravity style.

LIAM: Holding it in your hand while you're flying
on it?

LAURA: I'm not flying, I'm in a tree, dude.

MATT: Yeah, she's clutched up on top of a tree.

LIAM: I'm not looking at you.

MATT: All right, that brings us to Scanlan. Are
you averting your gaze or not?

SAM: I'm not only averting my gaze, I'm looking
towards the holes that it came out of, any of the

holes that are near me.

MATT: There's two that are near you.

SAM: Okay, I'm going to go over to one and throw a
Fireball down into it.

MATT: Okay! So, Scanlan, you walk over to the
nearby holes behind you, where the one that snuck

up behind you essentially came out of, aim down,
and make sure you mark off these charges for each

use of the wand.

SAM: Yes.

MATT: You (whoosh) release the beam, which gets
about 15, 20 feet down before it blasts. I need

you to make a dexterity saving throw.

TRAVIS: Like putting yourself at the mouth of a
cannon.

SAM: Seven.

LAURA: Oh no!

MATT: Roll 8d6. But take half damage, because it's
mostly guarded and this is a circumstantial, at

the outskirts of it, you're not taking the full
brunt of the Fireball. However, you do get caught

in the very edge of the backblast.

SAM: 29.

MATT: So you take half that. So you take 15 points
of fire damage and are blown about five feet

backward onto the ground. However, the ground
shudders beneath all your feet, and the earth, the

wet damp earth (squelch) sinks inward and the
tunnel collapses. A few of the others (squelch)

into it. There's still a couple more on the
opposite side that are open. There's two more on

this side that are open.

SAM: So the tunnels nearest me are not accessible
anymore.

MATT: The two that were there and there both, the
ground from it shuddering, collapsed inward, and

now the mud has filled the space. There's these
small sinkholes where they were.

SAM: All right. I'll spend the rest of my time in
this round licking my wounds and studying the

obelisk to see if I can see any other clues or
anything on it.

MATT: Okay. You can see the text that she saw upon
there, the Elvish script.

SAM: I can't read it, though.

MATT: But you see it there, and you see the
triangle, a dark recessed triangle about that big

that is in the base of it.

SAM: Is it a hole, or is it...?

MATT: It's a hole, but it's carved. It's not a
perfect triangle, it starts as a triangle and

slowly, as it recesses inward, comes to a point
towards the back.

TALIESIN: Like a reverse pyramid.

SAM: I throw a snowball in it.

MATT: (impact)

SAM: It's safe, guys.

MATT: Vax, you're up.

LIAM: All right, I'm off the map, but I want to
try to come down towards the tree that I think

Percy's at. He's between two trees. I'm going to
avert my gaze, I'm going to look at the ground,

come up around the side of that tree, and I'm
listening for scorpion clacking and basilisk

hissing, and I'm going to throw, dagger dagger
dagger, in the direction of the basilisk I hear

near scorpion claws clutching. Does that make
sense?

MATT: Mm-hmm.

LIAM: All right. So this is at disadvantage
because I'm looking at the ground. So first one

is... first one is a 21.

MATT: 21 hits.

LIAM: And second one is... 19?

MATT: Hits.

LIAM: Third one is 16.

MATT: Hits. These are not with Sharpshooter?

LIAM: No, not at all. So we've got ten, plus nine,
plus ten.

MATT: With that, your final dagger hits in the
side of its rib cage, and the creature slumps over

on the ground, letting out a horrible, gurgling
hiss as it slowly dies amongst the mud.

LIAM: Daredevil.

LAURA: Was that all of them?

MATT: Currently, yes. Make a perception check.

LAURA: Okay. Oh, I roll with advantage, because
I'm in the forest! Oh my god, I rolled a one twice

in a fucking row. I see nothing.

SAM: Two natural ones?

MARISHA: We are fucking eating it on rolls
tonight.

MATT: You're about to look down to inspect the
vicinity. However, the tree is starting to bow

forward and you (grunt) have to catch yourself,
and you have no chance to even survey the

territory.

TALIESIN: Pine sap gets in your eye.

LIAM: Laura Bailey dies on stream.

TRAVIS: I rolled a 16.

MATT: As you take a moment, the rage still in, you
can hear the blood pumping in your ears, but you

also hear the (hiss) rising hissing, what sounds
like a distant echo coming up from a subterranean

tunnel.

LAURA: Oh no.

MARISHA: Subterranean tunnel?

TRAVIS: Yeah. That Fireball, I think it might have
pissed them off.

SAM: Good.

MARISHA: Can I use my blindsight tremorsense to
see if I can feel how far away they are?

MATT: You do. You feel beneath the ground. It's
less of a tremorsense, more being able to sense

the vibrations in the air around you. You can tell
that there is motion coming from underneath.

MARISHA: Sounds like a lot of them?

MATT: A few more.

ASHLEY: Fireball the other holes?

MARISHA: I'm going to drop my scorpion form.

SAM: Oh, god, Keyleth, you're horrible! Oh, wait,
no, you've turned back to normal.

MARISHA: The things you say, Scanlan. I'm just
going to do a Wall of Stone, flat over the area

with the holes.

MATT: So from the stone chunks and portions of the
shattered bodies that litter part of this garden,

a giant stone wall forms around them and builds
over it, sealing these holes. Eventually you hear

a (knocking) (reptilian snarl) scraping sounds.

SAM: They're friendly!

LIAM: "I can't breathe down here!"

MATT: They're not budging it, they're just hitting
it from underneath, and it's getting more frantic

as time goes on.

SAM: How long can you hold that?

MARISHA: It'll last until they bust out of it, so
we either keep moving or figure out where we're

going from here.

SAM: What is this obelisk? It seems important if
these things are protecting it.

LAURA: What does it say?

MARISHA: It has writing in Elvish in it.

SAM: What does it say?

MARISHA: It says, a name is earned, in Elvish.

SAM: Should we say a name to it and see what
happens?

MATT: One of the stone parts of the wall begins to
crack from underneath.

LAURA: Didn't Osysa say something about, her mate
wouldn't say its name?

SAM: That's right, that's right.

LAURA: And this is a symbol of Ioun.

TRAVIS: Should we say Ioun in Elvish?

MARISHA: I say Ioun in Elvish.

MATT: You say it out into the air.

SAM: Why don't you say it into this triangle hole
over here?

MARISHA: Ioun!

LAURA: Say knowledge in Elvish.

MARISHA: Knowledge!

SAM: Elvish is just English except muffled.

MARISHA: I'm going in the triangle hole!

MATT: A moment passes.

MARISHA: Osysa! Sphinx!

LAURA: A name is earned.

TRAVIS: What's in the hole?

MARISHA: What's in the hole?

SAM: I don't know what's in the hole. Nothing.

MATT: A basilisk face bursts through the stone
wall.

SAM: Whack-a-Mole! Grog! Whack-a-Mole!

TRAVIS: Can I run over and play golf?

MATT: Yeah. Do you want to avert your gaze or
not?

TRAVIS: Nah.

MATT: All right, I need you to make a constitution
saving throw.

LIAM: Shite.

TRAVIS: 22.

MATT: Without an issue, the eyes find yours and
you just grin as you bring... what kind of attacks

do you want to do?

TRAVIS: Reckless and Great Weapon Master.

MATT: All right, go for it.

TRAVIS: That's a natural 20. I'll take that one on
the first one.

MATT: Okay, and the other one?

TRAVIS: 19. 20.

MATT: Both hit. The first is a critical. This
would be over here.

TRAVIS: 31?

MATT: Did you roll the... Is that times two?

TRAVIS: No, that's just the attack.

LIAM: It's critical.

MATT: Before you add your modifier.

TRAVIS: Before the modifier? It was 12 before the
modifier.

MATT: So 24 plus the modifier.

TRAVIS: Which is 32, plus ten is 42.

MATT: 42. Did you roll the additional brutal
critical rolls?

TRAVIS: Nope.

MATT: So roll 4d6 on top of that, because of your
brutal critical. I think it is.

LIAM: I think we can all agree it's the jelly of
the month club at this point.

TRAVIS: 17.

MATT: For a grand total of...

SAM: 59?

LAURA: Do you double those ones though, because
it's the dice?

TRAVIS: That's just the first hit.

MATT: Yeah, all right. 59 points of damage. You
square up.

TRAVIS: Happy Gilmore-style.

MATT: You strike down with the blade at an angle,
using the stone holding it in place like an

executioner's block, and the blade scrapes against
the stone as you strike, finding itself embedding

about seven to eight inches into the throat of the
basilisk as its head's protruding out.

Immediately, blood begins to pour out of its side,
and it's gurgling at its attempt to try and push

through. You wedge the blade out. Go for your next
strike. You already rolled your attack, which was

a 19, so roll damage on that one.

TRAVIS: Seven, 12, 20, 30, on the second one.

LIAM: Oh, that's all?

MATT: With the second strike, you (whoosh) clean
slice. The head (splat) onto the stonework there,

the body still wedging the hole shut. The neck is
a clean cut, and starts gouting blood out.

TRAVIS: I dip the tip of the sword into the little
well and I pick up the head.

MATT: Which, by the way, both saving throws were
failed, so you gain another plus two to strength.

SAM: Wow, you're catching up to Pike!

LAURA: Ow! Nothing.

TALIESIN: Did you cut yourself on your cup?

LAURA: No, I just hit my tooth.

MARISHA and TALIESIN: Oh, I hate that.

MATT: All right, so you can feel the impact still
attempting from beneath growing more and more

frantic.

MARISHA: I say, earned!

ASHLEY: Can I go collect some of the (stuttering)
basilisk-- I can't say that. Can I get some of the

blood and collect it?

MATT: Sure. And you notice that the longer it
stays out there, the blood itself is beginning to

freeze in the general atmosphere and get slushy.

LAURA: We can get some and put it in my bag. It
keeps things good.

ASHLEY: Can I stab the carcass then in another
area and get some fresh in the body?

MATT: Yeah, there's plenty of carcasses of
basilisks around. As they're inspecting, and you

still feel the impacts from underneath the stone
wall from the other tunnel, you manage to gather,

we'll say two small vials of basilisk blood.

ASHLEY: Vex!

TRAVIS: Yeah, put it in Vex's little refrigerator
Bag of Holding.

MATT: Okay. The slamming on the other side of the
stone wall slowly subsides until silence comes.

MARISHA: Did they give up?

TRAVIS: Has anybody put their hand in the hole
yet?

LAURA: It's all you, Grog.

TRAVIS: All right, I put my hand in the hole.

MATT: Where the one you killed is?

TRAVIS: No, the triangle.

MATT: Okay. So you take your hand and you place it
inside this empty recess in the obelisk. It

reaches in, and the shadow of the obelisk
completely takes it to the wrist.

Nothing happens.

SAM: I'm going to take my Ioun Stone and shove it
in the hole.

MATT: Okay. You take the Ioun Stone and place it
in the hole, and it has a soft light that it gives

off naturally from the magical enchantment, and it
lights the inside of the dark recess, and as you

place it inside, the top of the obelisk begins to
glow ever-so-faintly, like a little beacon. The

very top of the stone glows a matching color to
your stone.

MARISHA: A matching color?

MATT: Yeah. I need you all to make a perception
check.

SAM: 17.

MARISHA: 14.

LIAM: 16.

TRAVIS: 19!

LAURA: 25.

TALIESIN: 11.

SAM: Ashley Blindsight?

ASHLEY: 16!

MATT: Okay. You catch a little bit of this, Grog,
and you perk up as you notice, and you see

immediately. There is a matching beacon, a faint
glow that appears to be streaking down the

mountainside in the distance. It's a little bit
off-center from the direct south direction that

you're facing, but there is a slight marker, very
faintly visible on the mountain range, just

visible over the treetops.

LAURA: I drop a pin in that, and I tell Keyleth,
now you can use that thing!

MARISHA: I hold up the Hunk of Quall.

LAURA: No, I mean your spell, Keyleth. Fastest way
to get to this point!

MARISHA: I didn't bring it because everyone said
not to learn that spell.

SAM: That was today, wasn't it?

LAURA: I thought you already learned it.

MARISHA: He said to learn something else because
it wasn't going to be useful.

LAURA: No, he said just don't use that thing!

MARISHA: No, you said to learn something, it was
at the beginning of the day!

SAM: You can't unlearn things! It's all good.

LAURA: It's okay, it's okay. I can see it.

MATT: You had it already memorized when you guys
got to the edge of the forest, I'm pretty sure.

MARISHA: Okay. I thought you were saying to pick
something else because it wouldn't be handy. But I

take it back, and I'll use it now if you want.

TALIESIN: No, we're good. We're good.

MARISHA: I'm so confused.

MATT: Up to you.

MARISHA: Is it me tonight?

TALIESIN: It is a really weird pot of coffee. It's
not just you.

MARISHA: Do I need sleep? What am I missing?

MATT: It's all good.

MARISHA: I can keep it.

TRAVIS: Just lick your finger and stick it in the
wind.

LAURA: Just use the spell and pretend that you
never unlearned it.

MARISHA: I never unlearned it! It's been there the
whole time! I didn't use it. It's not like I used

a 6th-level spell. Look, guys! Find the Path! That
way!

MATT: Okay. So what is it that you're focusing on
for the spell?

MARISHA: That beam of light!

LAURA: That I pointed out to her.

MARISHA: That she pointed out. Am I doing this
wrong?

MATT: No, you're not doing it wrong! You cast the
spell and, concentrating on the source of this

beacon, you feel the direction that would pull you
the best way to travel towards that beacon is to

travel towards that beacon.

LIAM: Look, you're just doing what the bossy
half-elf told you to do. Just go with it.

MARISHA: What, that one?

LIAM: That's the only bossy half-elf here.

SAM: DM, can I experiment and take away, if I take
away my Ioun Stone, does the light fade?

MATT: As you pull the Ioun Stone out of it, the
beacon does fade, yes. But you have a direction.

MARISHA: I have it marked now. I have a pin in it.
Right, that counts?

MATT: Right. No matter where you travel in this
place, you will have a directional position

towards that beacon.

LAURA: See, there we go.

MARISHA: Fucking handy, that one is.

TRAVIS: Yep, redemption.

MARISHA: Totally a great 6th-level spell I'm going
to use all the time going forward.

LIAM: Oh, for fuck's sake. Here we go, people.
Here we go. And we're moving.

TRAVIS: We take off at a jog now!

SAM: Wait, before we leave, is there anything else
we need to do here? Do we need to go down into the

tunnels? Do we need to piss on the obelisk? Do we
want to do anything?

LIAM: You should piss on the obelisk just to be
sure.

TALIESIN: You should lick it, too, after you piss
on it.

TRAVIS: Let's not.

SAM: Let's go.

MATT: Are you guys leaving?

SAM: Wait, we need some basilisk blood and stuff!

LAURA: We got some!

MATT: You're standing amongst the obelisk, a long
series of mud with a bunch of mostly together

stone statues of people and pieces of people
around.

TRAVIS: Do we want to check the other building
ruins? We didn't check those at all. There's a

whole corner of a building over there.

LAURA: Sure.

TRAVIS: Well, go check it!

LAURA: I go look at it.

LIAM: Half-elves look at the building structure.

MATT: Make an investigation check.

TRAVIS: What the hot holy fuck.

LIAM: 26.

TALIESIN: It says it was forged by dwarves, that's
all I can understand.

LAURA: Investigation?

MATT: Investigation, yeah.

LAURA: 19.

MATT: 19, all right. You guys both start gathering
around the sides of the ruin. Glancing about the

outside, it looks like at one point it was a
smaller structure, probably part of the

construction, like this here was a satellite place
of worship for Ioun, like a beacon as part of a

journey. But nothing about it catches your eyes.
As you're stepping over the remnants of the stone

individuals on the ground, you catch your eye on
one of the individuals you see, lying partially

submerged in the snow and mud. You glance down and
see two arms that are out like this, although the

right arm from the elbow down is missing. It's
broken off in stone. Both are reaching out. A

young human male, shortish brown hair, spectacles
at the end of his nose, thin body and tucked-in,

nice buttoned shirt. Slacks. This is Tyriok, the
mapmaker.

LIAM: The mapmaker?

TALIESIN: You're a terrible person.

LAURA: No, why would you do that, Matthew?

MATT: I didn't do this! He was travelling the
world to take notes, people!

LIAM: I take... Wait! Everybody shush! I look at
him for a moment and then I leave him, and I don't

tell anyone else.

MARISHA: What?

SAM: We have Pike with us!

LIAM: I don't tell anyone else. Pike didn't see
him. His arm is broken off! You don't fucking know

he exists. He's gone.

ASHLEY: But, but!

LAURA: That's terrible!

TALIESIN: Why don't you two just write a sequel to
Batman/Superman while you're at it? Just destroy

everything. I don't care anymore.

LAURA: We could heal him!

MATT: You don't know. Eventually, after you guys
do a perusal of the ruins, you find your way back

to the party and you guys continue travelling
which way, towards the beacon?

LAURA: Towards the beacon!

MARISHA: I've got it in my head now.

LIAM: Wait, wait, wait, I go to Pike. I go to
Pike. Pike.

ASHLEY: Yeah? Hi, Vax!

LIAM: Do you remember that mapmaker? Were you with
us? So much shit has happened. Do you remember

Tyriok the mapmaker?

ASHLEY: I don't think I was with you.

LIAM: There's a man over there. His arm is gone.
Can you fix stoning? Can you fix a man who's been

turned to stone?

ASHLEY: I can try. Remember one time we fixed Vex,
when she was turned to stone, the last time we

fought the basilisks.

LIAM: Two years ago, yeah. What did we do?

ASHLEY: We covered her in basilisk blood.

LIAM: I need to take a walk. Could you do that?
Could you do that?

ASHLEY: Sure. Which stone is he?

LIAM: Look over there by that tree there. Do you
see him? There's two hands pointing towards the sky.

SAM: One hand.

LIAM: Two.

ASHLEY: One and a half. All right, can I head over
there?

MATT: You walk over there, and you do see a number
of broken body parts all turned to stone in

various states of disuse and crumbling. You do see
a young man who's caught with his arms out, one

broken off at the elbow, staring up, glasses at
the end of his nose, looking both frightened and

frozen in a moment of complete unaware danger.

ASHLEY: Okay. Can I try covering him in some of
the basilisk's blood?

MATT: Sure. You take one of the vials that you
collected and take the basilisk blood and pour it

over the statue. The blood congeals and spills
over, crystallizing slowly as the ice cold gets to

it. It doesn't seem to have an effect.

ASHLEY: It's been too long.

MATT: You gather, based on the last time it
happened, the blood needs to be applied within a

short period of time after the person turns to
stone. Do you have anything else that might help?

ASHLEY: Probably Greater Restoration.

MATT: Do you have that prepared?

ASHLEY: I do.

MATT: You concentrate, grasping the symbol of
Sarenrae around your neck and touch your hand out.

The warm glow of Sarenrae's divine energy
transferring into the stone form. The form glows

with energy, and the glow subsides and fades, the
stone texture of his body beginning to slowly

soften, and the color returning to his skin, and
for a moment the head seems to shake, and the eyes

clarify, and a voice begins to peek through these
previously frozen vocal cords. "I mean no--"

(screams) As all of a sudden his arm begins to
spray gouts of blood.

TRAVIS: I got it! I got it! I start catching it
with the sword.

MATT: (stuttering) He turns to you, and sprays
right across your face.

TRAVIS: Good! Splash on! Yes!

MATT: "Help! Help me!"

ASHLEY: I grab his arm and Cure Wounds! I don't
know if that's a really good move.

MATT: Go ahead and heal him up a bit.

ASHLEY: Can I try to reattach his arm?

MATT: You gather that might have been something to
do before you had restored him.

SAM: Oh, shit.

MATT: However, go ahead and heal for Cure Wounds.
Roll a d8 plus five.

TRAVIS: That's kind of fucking hilarious.

ASHLEY: 5d8 plus five?

MATT: Depending on what level you want to use on
him. A level one is 1d8 plus five.

ASHLEY: Oh, God, okay. I feel like I'm using all
this, but I don't know. Okay, so let's do level five.

MATT: Level five. All right, go for it. 5d8 plus
five.

TALIESIN: Not our finest hour. Pretty reasonable
hour, but it's definitely not the finest. We

brought most of a mapmaker back.

MATT: So how much is that?

ASHLEY: 29.

MATT: 29, okay. As you reach out and grasp the
edge of his bleeding stump...

ASHLEY: Stop moving!

MATT: "I just--" (yelps) The warmth causes the
pain to fade and he calms for a second. "Oh.

"Sorry." He looks down as the wound has stopped
bleeding, skin is scabbed over, and it looks like

it's now in a place where it's no longer an open
wound. It is mostly healed over, though he is now

missing part of his arm.

LAURA: Can you regrow his little arm like you
regrew my brother's little nubbin of a toe?

MATT: This is a bit beyond your healing
capabilities.

TRAVIS: C'mon, Deadpool hand.

MATT: At which point he goes, "Thank you, small
one. I--" And he goes to reach up for his glasses

and... Other hand.

LAURA: Oh, we're terrible.

TALIESIN: Technically saved seven-eighths of a
mapmaker.

MATT: He looks around at the rest of you. "Oh!
Hello, it's been a while. We haven't... Well, I

"seem to have gotten myself in a bit of a
predicament."

SAM: What happened?

MATT: "Well, I was... Well, I had two escorts. And
I had been making my way through most of

"Tal'Dorei, and had gotten as far as this region,
and... That's all I remember."

LAURA: Basilisks? Big lizard creatures?

MATT: "Yes. Very scary. I tried to run, and that's
all I remember."

LAURA: Was it just the three of you, then? Not a
large group of people?

MATT: "No, just three of us."

ASHLEY: What were you doing over here?

MATT: "I was trying to finish this portion of the
map. If I... Ah!" And he goes over and reaches

through some of the snow and pulls up a large
stone bag that is currently still attached to his

broken arm.

TALIESIN: No!

MATT: "Um. Is this...?"

TRAVIS: Nope! No, no, that's just part of a-- It
was a statue garden, it's not a big deal. It's

just a fragment.

MATT: "All right. Well, these were my maps."

SAM: Are they stone?

MATT: They are stone, currently.

LAURA: Can we-- Oh, no.

TRAVIS: Is he on the ground still?

MATT: No, he's standing. "Oh boy." He takes his
glasses off and goes to rub them into his shirt

and... does it with one hand and puts them back
on.

ASHLEY: Oh, buddy.

LAURA: I feel terrible.

MATT: "Well."

TALIESIN: It's like a one-legged duck walking
around.

MATT: "What do I do?"

TRAVIS: Which hand does he have, his left?

MATT: He has his left hand.

TRAVIS: Are you right-handed?

MATT: "I'm kind of ambidextrous."

TRAVIS: Thank gods for that.

LAURA: That's good, that's good. Well...

TALIESIN: A lot's happened.

MATT: There's shock on his face. He still hasn't
quite taken in all of this stuff.

SAM: Everything is going to be okay.

MARISHA: Well, you have a great story now.

TALIESIN: And a period of adjustment.

MATT: "This is very true. This is a valid point."

TALIESIN: We should send him back to the
encampment.

LAURA: It's like a two-day walk.

SAM: These escorts you had with you who were also
turned to stone, were they important to you? Were

they friends of yours?

MATT: "I hired them as part of this endeavor. They
were nice fellows. Hold on a second." He starts

walking off and starts rummaging through the
pieces of stone and various people, picking up

heads. "No. Well, that's Alex. Golly, I don't... I
don't know where Gerald is, but... Can I come with

"you for now?"

LAURA: Well, you're more than-- Actually--

TRAVIS: No.

LAURA: He's rather smart, isn't he?

SAM: He has knowledge of the area.

TALIESIN: That actually could be useful.

LAURA: Here's the thing. It's very dangerous,
dear, and it's quite possible you might be turned

into stone again.

MATT: "I don't want that."

LAURA: No, we don't want that for you, either.

TRAVIS: Also eaten alive, burned, shot, stabbed--

LAURA: Straight-up killed.

TRAVIS: -- pulled apart, maimed--

LAURA: Beheaded.

TRAVIS: -- Lacerated.

LAURA: All options.

TRAVIS: But that's just in the mornings.

LAURA: But you're more than welcome to join us,
for a short amount of time. Or you can head back

to a camp that's about a day and a half away.

MATT: "All right. Whereabouts are you going?"

TRAVIS: We're heading up the mountain.

MATT: I'll head for the camp.

TRAVIS: Are you sure? We could always use you as a
decoy-- I mean, as an aid.

MATT: "I'm good. I'm all right. Thank you, though.
I appreciate the offer. I have a lot to think about."

MARISHA: I could...

TALIESIN: Well, we'll run into him when we get
back.

TRAVIS: Do you need a hand finding your way to the
encampment?

SAM: Oh, Grog.

TALIESIN: Not cool.

LIAM: Groan.

MATT: He starts walking northward, basically
trailing past the path where you guys walked from.

LAURA: I feel like we should help him or
something.

LIAM: Not bad enough to actually do it, though,
right?

MARISHA: I have Conjure Woodland Beings in my back
pocket today, so I could conjure you a little

posse to escort you.

LAURA: That would be good!

LIAM: Have some squirrels, buddy.

MARISHA: Have a little posse.

MATT: What's the duration on that one?

MARISHA: I don't know. That's something else that
I haven't done, ever.

SAM: Untested high-level spell? Do it!

MARISHA: That always works so well.

MATT: It's an hour of concentration.

TRAVIS: Is this as far as you got, or did you make
it up the mountain previously?

MATT: "I was cresting through the base of the
mountain, and made it most of the way down the

"Stormcrest and was heading back through the
Frostweald."

TRAVIS: Oh, you've been up there already?

LAURA: You've been to the base of the Stormcrest
Mountains!

MATT: "I was kind of along the side. We were
trying to make our way through the central portion

"of the mountain pass so we could keep track of the
division of topography on both top and bottom."

TRAVIS: Oh, man. Why you didn't say so? We could
really use your help here.

LAURA: Actually, did you see something similar to
this obelisk at the base of the mountain?

MATT: "Uh..." He looks back and thinks to himself.
"Not quite like this, though, but there are a

"number of cavern entrances that litter various
portions of the base of the mountain."

TRAVIS: Did you go in any of them?

MATT: "No, see, I was afraid those would be too
dangerous. So I went into the forest."

TRAVIS: Right.

MATT: "Anyway."

TRAVIS: Well, look, you don't really seem to have
a lot on you. Why don't you join us for just a

little bit, to the areas that he knows, and then
we'll send you back on your way, maybe with a bit

of ale, a little bit of food? Maybe a weapon?

MATT: "That would be fantastic. And... Thank you.
I realize now that if you hadn't come by, I

"probably would have been there forever."

LAURA: Yes, well, we're sorry about the arm,
dear.

MATT: "There are worse things. And I can retrain
to write with this arm. It's totally fine."

SAM: Yes. You're lucky to be alive, and now you're
going on an adventure with us. Hey, who has two

thumbs and is really excited? You and me, both
doing this.

MATT: You know what, make a charisma check.

TALIESIN: You worry me.

SAM: Charisma?

MATT: Yeah, add your plus five charisma bonus.

SAM: 20.

MATT: 20? As you do that, he... "Yeah. You're
right! You're right. I'm thankful to be alive

"today, and it's because of you guys."

LIAM: Technically true.

MATT: "Let's travel!"

TRAVIS: Well, listen, I'll walk with you. Lead the
way.

MATT: "All right, so where are you going? Because
this place was dangerous, and that place is

"dangerous, and we don't want to go that way."

TRAVIS: Yeah, Vex'ahlia will point where we're
headed.

LAURA: Why don't you want to go that way? Have you
seen orcs in this wood?

MATT: He points and says, "There's a lot of them
that way. We came through here to avoid them, and

"that's when this all happened."

LAURA: Ooh. Actually, we should probably take care
of the orcs.

TALIESIN: Get the orcs really quick, and then we
can send him back with the refugees from there.

MARISHA: We did say we were going to take care of
the orcs.

LAURA: Yes, we did.

MARISHA: We did promise that.

LAURA: What do you say, Grog? Would you like to
kill some orc?

TRAVIS: Do you always ask questions to which you
know the answer already?

LAURA: Would you like to stay here while we fight
the orcs, or could you walk us towards them and

stay hidden?

MATT: "I don't want to stay here."

LAURA: Then you come with us, and then you stay
very, very hidden.

MATT: "I can do that. I can definitely do that."

TALIESIN: When it's time, he can hide with the
bear. Then a bear will be hiding with a mapmaker,

or most of a mapmaker.

SAM: We'll be fine. Let's go.

MATT: "All right."

LIAM: While all of that happened, for the last ten
minutes, can I stealth away for a little bit?

MATT: Sure. Roll a stealth check.

LIAM: 31.

MATT: Okay. Based on passive perception, nobody
notices your exit.

LIAM: I don't want to go that far, I want to go so
I can still hear all this bullshit behind me, and

find a quiet spot...

I know you can hear me. I'm going to need... I'm
going to need more than nightmares. A deal has

been struck, and I will honor it. I need to
understand what this is. Any time.

MATT: In that moment, the white snow suddenly
flashes to dark, and it's like you were struck

blind. You gasp instinctually as your vision goes
dark, nothing, and you see come from the shadow,

another flash, another vision. It's of Vasselheim.
Another flash. You look out and you can see

there's one large, darkened structure that you
have not visited but passed by on the southeastern

side of Vasselheim.

TALIESIN: Yeah! Temple! Temple of the Raven
Queen.

MATT: The actual name of this, and you've heard it
in passing before, when you were given your

initial pass over of the... I'm trying to find the
specific name here so I don't mess it up. It's in

here somewhere. You see this dark, obsidian
structure that is ridged, almost like an even rib

cage along each side. It is ominous, and it stuck
out in the middle of the city because, amongst the

rest of the jovial atmosphere, it loomed over the
Amaranthine Oubliette. But this was the central

temple to the Raven Queen. You then flash once
again, in a long chamber, and you see veils, dark

veils passing by, one after another, after
another. Another flash forward, and you see a

chamber with dark brown, smooth floors. You see
gold trim along large pillars that reach up to a

dome-type stained glass ceiling of amber colors
and white, and in the center of this chamber you

see what appears to be a pool of still, crimson
liquid. You see the crimson liquid shift, and a

form rises up out of it. An arm rises up and
beckons a finger. Your vision goes to black, and

you're back in the forest.

LIAM: Fuck. Not exactly what I was talking about.
At some point, a little bit of clarification.

Congratulations, you're creepy as fuck. We'll work
it out. I head back to the group.

SAM: Good talk.

MATT: As you guys gather yourselves, your new
companion, and start heading in the direction that

he ushered you within the Frostweald, towards
where supposedly these orcs have holed up and made

their camp, you know that the good news is, you
probably have the element of surprise in this, but

you're not entirely sure what it is you're in for
when you get there.

That's where I'll end today's session.

(groaning)

LAURA: That was a lot of sidetracks on this
particular adventure.

MATT: That's all right. Sidetracks make it fun.

TALIESIN: Nothing wrong with sidetrack.

LIAM: Heebie-jeebies.

LAURA: Oh, man, she's creepy!

ASHLEY: Creepy as fuck!

LAURA: Creepy as fuck!

SAM: Hey, Pike, good job tonight, lady!

TRAVIS: Hey, Pikey!

SAM: You brought a guy back to life!

LAURA: 19 strength, say what!

SAM: You're super strong!

ASHLEY: I'm a tank.

TRAVIS: Tank up in this motherfucker.

LIAM: (bang! bang! bang!)

ASHLEY: It feels so good to be back.

MATT: I know. Come back to us soon! Physically!

LAURA: Yes, please!

ASHLEY: Yes, very soon! A few more weeks, a few
more weeks.

TRAVIS: She's coming, she's coming.

LIAM: We need our Pike.

MATT: All right, guys. We'll pick this up next
Thursday! Thank you for coming and watching us

play around, make believe on the Internet.

SAM: Is next week any-- It's not our 50th
episode?

LIAM: It's our 49th!

LAURA: Next week is our 49th, two weeks from now
is our 50th.

MATT: 21st is our 50th episode.

SAM: Last time in our 40s.

MARISHA: Got to enjoy it now.

TRAVIS: And don't miss the 50th.

MATT: Don't miss the 50th, it's going to be fun.

LAURA: May be a couple surprises in store.

MATT: We'll see.

TRAVIS: Nothing. Just us.

MATT: I don't know where we'll be in the story,
because that's definitely based on whatever you

guys do. But we'll have some fun things here.

LIAM: Shopping episode.

MATT: Yep. But yeah, thank you guys so much! See
you next Thursday. Those of you in Pittsburgh,

we'll see you this weekend. Is it Thursday yet?