MATT: Hello, everyone, and welcome to tonight's
episode of Critical Role, where a bunch of us

nerdy-ass voice actors sit around and play
Dungeons & Dragons. Hate you, Liam.

(laughter)

TRAVIS: That was good! Really nice. Some good
flavor on it.

MATT: You'll never know. So anyway! Welcome new
folks. People who aren't new folks, welcome back.

We have some announcements to get to real fast,
then we'll jump into the actual story proper here.

But, yeah! So, first and foremost, I wanted to
give a big thanks and shout-out to Syrinscape, I

mentioned them in last week's game, I put together
my gaming playlists on their platform, and I'm

going to be trying them out tonight to make sure
everything works out cool, but their setup is

fantastic and I'm really excited about being able
to overlap audio, and things fade in and out. If

you haven't checked it out, and you want to
really amp up your tabletop gaming, it's

phenomenal. But they're not paying for this, I'm
really excited about it. So that's that,

Syrinscape's awesome. Marisha, you want to talk
about Signal Boost?

MARISHA: Yeah! The first epil-- episode.

LAURA: Epilsode!

MARISHA: The first epil, of--

TALIESIN: Epilay!

MARISHA: Epil, epilay, epilogue. The first episode
of Signal Boost went live on Tuesday. Go check it

out on GeekandSundry.com. Go watch it, it's good
fun. And you should go watch it so we don't get

cancelled, and we'll keep making more episodes.

LIAM: Is that how it works?

MARISHA: Apparently!

MATT: Yeah, it's the weirdest thing.

MARISHA: It's crazy.

LAURA: They care about that?

MARISHA: Yeah. And I talk about Rat Queens, in it,
and--

LAURA: Yes! I saw! It's so good, Marisha. It's
really funny.

TALIESIN: It's like ten minutes of your-- you have
more minutes than two minutes, spend a couple of

minutes.

MARISHA: And I tell you about cool things that I
like. That I picked out myself. My favorite

things. Done.

MATT: Watch it. It's good. All right. Next thing I
wanted to announce for you guys, tonight's

donations, and all donations for the week, are
going to be going, as opposed to 826 overall, are

going to go to 826Seattle specifically, to
Fearless Ideas, is what it's called there, their

section up there, you can go to FearlessIdeas.org.
This past week there was a terrible gas explosion

in Seattle, you may have seen on the news, and it
did a lot of damage to that vicinity, including

Fearless Ideas, and they've had to cancel a bunch
of their stuff, and they're trying to get things

repaired and going. So all of our donations this
evening will be going towards them and helping

them get that effort taken care of. So think good
thoughts and help out if you can. Let's see.

TRAVIS and MARISHA: Love you, Seattle!

MATT: 826. We've, next Friday, in Anaheim, at
WonderCon, Friday night, we'll be doing a Critical

Role panel, from 7:00 to 8:00pm, in Room 515A.

LAURA: Wait, are we supposed to be at that?

MATT: Next Friday. Next Friday. But most of us
will be there for that panel. We'll be doing a

Q&A, answering questions, talking about the show,
for all the folks that are local or coming to that

convention in the Anaheim area of southern
California. So, look forward to seeing you there,

next Friday.

LAURA: Yes, that's when we-- I can't say. I'll
talk to you guys afterwards.

MATT: (laughs) Okay. We'll go over that. Mystery--
secret, I like it.

LAURA: Secret, secret.

MATT: Wanted to give another shout-out to Dwarven
Forge again, I mentioned them last week. You got

to get a glimpse of some of the map stuff they
gave us here at Critical Role to help improve our

battle mats and scenarios on occasion. Their new
Castle Builder Kickstarter is phenomenal, and if

you're looking to do big structures and cool
castle-based ramparts and parapets and everything,

go check it out, it might be right up your alley.

TRAVIS: So pretty.

MATT: So pretty. It's so pretty. Also, Laura,
if you want to announce, we have some new merch up

in the store!

LAURA: Go check GeekandSundry.com, go to their
store, right now, because they're up, and it's so

awesome, and I can't wait for you guys to see, we
have a Gilmore's Glorious Goods t-shirt.

(cheering)

LAURA: And I've been so excited about this shirt
coming out, I can't wait to wear it, why aren't we

wearing it right now?

MATT: (Gilmore voice) "Don't worry. Trust me, it's
a fabulous shirt. Some would even say it's quite

"glorious."

TRAVIS: Oh my god, oh my god.

LAURA: As well as the Gilmore's Glorious Goods
t-shirts, we also have exclusive Critical Role d20

rings, spinny rings. Those are limited, so if you
get them, then snag them fast, because they're

going to be gone.

TRAVIS: We get one of those before they disappear,
right?

LAURA: I think they said they were going to set us
aside some, they'd better.

TRAVIS: They are. They're bitchin'. You spin it,
the 20 is the Critical Role logo.

LAURA: Why don't we have them right now?! At
intermission, maybe we can grab them at

intermission.

TRAVIS: They're sick.

MATT: For those who don't know what those are,
the d20 spin rings, or spin rings in general,

they're actually two separate moving pieces with
ball bearings on the inside, and you have all

numbers one through 20 on the actual ring, and you
can spin it with your finger, and it acts like a

die roll!

LAURA: And the d20, when you crit succeed, it's a
Critical Role logo. Just putting that out there.

TRAVIS: You can do all your life decisions based
off a ring.

MATT: What could possibly go wrong?

LIAM: You still can die from them, though, just to
be clear.

TALIESIN: Roll a one.

MARISHA: And we are not held responsible if that
happens.

TRAVIS: You go straight to Craven Edge.

LIAM: It's appropriately called a "die."

LAURA: Whatever.

MATT: Liam!

LIAM: Yeah?

MATT: You wanted to--

LIAM: Sure, I could talk about a couple of things.
Hey, a quick shout-out for our neighbor, Ivan van

Norman's Kickstarter, The ABCs of RPGs, has three
days left. I backed it immediately, because I like

D&D and I have kids, and you put those two things
together and good things happen. So that's good,

three days left. Also, hey, if you like to put
your dice in boxes, I tell you what. Wyrmwood

Gaming make beautiful boxes, and if you go over to
their site and you use the code critrole.

ALL: Crit. Role.

LIAM: There it is. You get free shipping, they're
beautiful, they have all different kinds of woods

to put your dice inside. Is there anything else?
Oh, yeah! Oh, okay. Yeah, hey, some of us, not all

of us, are going to be going up to San Fran later
this month to make appearances on GameSpot's show

The Lobby for a couple of segments, and then, also
then hopping over to hang with the guys at Kinda

Funny to play D&D.

LAURA: Those guys are stupid.

MATT: Which, a few of us will be running a quick
little one-shot game I'll be running with the aid

of one of their local gentlemen. And it
should be a ridiculously ridiculous time! And

it'll be a lot of fun.

LIAM: And I'm curious to see, because there's
going to be two DMs, in sort of a Batman and

Robin-type relationship kind of thing?

MATT: Oh yeah. We got plans. I've co-DM'd
before, it can be very interesting. And very

chaotic. I'm excited.

TRAVIS: Going to kill everybody.

MATT: Probably.

LAURA: This has nothing to do with announcements,
but I want to only roll green dice tonight. For

Saint Patrick's Day.

MARISHA: That's a good idea, I've got a set of
green dice. I'll get them out. Sure.

TRAVIS: That's stupid. I have gray-ass dice and a
blue one.

MARISHA: Got to get them all out.

MATT: This is technically light green, guys, by
the way, just so you're aware. Cool. Just making

sure we're all cool on that.

TRAVIS: Plus the underwear you're wearing.

MATT: Shh, that's just for you.

LIAM: Travis and I are wearing green snake shirts,
because (Irish accent) Saint Patrick drove the

snakes out of Ireland, into Burbank.

MATT: Drove the Slytherin from Ireland. He got rid
of them all.

TRAVIS: Yeah. I took the Floo network.

MARISHA: And I got this in Ireland, so it counts.

LAURA: It kind of counts, Marisha.

MARISHA: It counts.

LIAM: (Irish accent) It's fucking Irish wool!

MARISHA: And this is green.

TRAVIS: Yeah, made from real Irish cats.

MATT: They are the best, aren't they? Last but not
least, unless anyone else has any other

announcements to make, anything else?

TALIESIN: Oh! I got a quick one, Book of Murder
came out today, so you can hear me do a very weird

accent, it's great. So. Yes. Very weird accent.

MATT: And last, next week, we'll have a special
guest joining us for an episode, a new guest, the

intrepid Nerdist himself, Chris Hardwick, will be
coming in for a game next week.

(cheering)

MATT: Oh, I'm excited! We made his character this
past Monday, and it should be a lot of fun. He's

actually fun to game with. We've played D&D a
couple times, and he'll be a good addition to the

team for his brief stop by. So next week, come
check him out on our show!

TRAVIS: Uh-oh, what does that mean?

MATT: So thanks for coming, Chris. I don't know,
it'll be fun.

TALIESIN: Cleric, is what it means.

MATT: Hoping every guest is a cleric. Just in
case.

TRAVIS: Save us! From ourselves.

MATT: All right, then. Without further ado, unless
you guys have anything else, we'll go ahead and

hop into a quick synopsis of where we are in
Critical Role.

LIAM: Shit. Help. Help. Help. Help.

MATT: Sam will be here shortly, guys, don't freak
out. He's dealing with children and traffic.

TALIESIN: Not at the same time.

MARISHA: Damn it, you beat me to it. I was going
to say those two aren't mutually exclusive.

Children and traffic.

MATT: So. Where we left off. The party of Vox
Machina, having to deal with the current terrible

danger of the Chroma Conclave, a collection of
very dangerous dragons that have torn through the

entire Tal'Dorei countryside, have then gone on
this quest to collect allies, and find these items

called the Vestiges of Divergence, these artifacts
of ancient wars that carry great power and seem to

be the best way you could prepare yourselves for
going up against these terrifyingly powerful

entities. In searching for this, you went and made
your way to Vasselheim, where you reacquired and

reestablished friendships with Zahra and Kashaw,
two allies from previous instalments of our

wondrous adventure, as well as getting Lady Kima
on loan from the Platinum Sanctuary of Bahamut,

and you all went to seek the first bit of
information you discovered about one of these

vestiges, not too far from Vasselheim. The
champion of the Raven Queen's armor that had been

entombed within this temple that had sunken
beneath a lake. After traveling to this lake,

finding your way through this subterranean, watery
location, you found the location of the tomb, upon

which, a series of fish creatures, called kuo-toa,
had seemingly been worshiping another denizen of

this temple, a rather strange slime-covered
beholder, that then surprised the party. The

battle hard-fought, you came out victorious, and
upon going to retrieve your spoils, a trap was set

off in the tomb, dodged by one, survived by a
bear, and claimed the life of our beloved

Vex'ahlia. After a resurrection ritual attempted
by Kashaw, the party helping, they were successful

in bringing her soul back from the other side,
restoring her to life, and the party then,

figuring out what their next step in their journey
was, took their new allies, via Keyleth's

Teleportation via Plants spell, back to
Whitestone, which seems to be building as this

defensive bastion, this currently not on the radar
of the Conclave location that needs defenses, and

a good place to keep your allies at the time. And
that was where we left off, as you guys had just

stepped back into Whitestone.

LAURA: We haven't actually slept yet, then.

MATT: Nope!

LAURA: It's late.

MARISHA: What time is it here?

MATT: I'd say through the evening's travels--
Well, you guys slept all night the night before

you went to the temple, the temple's probably
been--

MARISHA: That's true, we did sleep, actually, we
camped out.

LAURA: We did?

MARISHA: Remember? You talked to Zahra, and I
talked to Kash? Then we slept.

MATT: Yeah, you guys did camp out.

LAURA: Oh. I didn't know if we camped, I thought
we talked.

MATT: You talked.

MARISHA: We at least chilled. I don't know.

MATT: Regardless.
You found your way to Whitestone.

We'll say for the sake of the current setting,
you've come in in a rather overcast mid-afternoon

in Whitestone, you may have spent some time there
gathering yourselves as your allies scope out

their new surroundings, the people of Whitestone
accepting you as you arrive, you can always see

people walking by and catching a glance at the
group of heroes known as Vox Machina that helped

liberate them from the oppressive Briarwoods not
long ago.

TALIESIN: Keep crawling out of trees.

MARISHA: It's always weird. Not crawling out of
trees, that people like us.

TRAVIS: Should we inspect our spoils?

TALIESIN: I was going to say, we should take the
armor and the necklace to the castle and have it

inspected.

LAURA: Is Lady Allura here?

MATT: Kima, who is with you, is like, "Is she?"

LAURA: No. Well, she was on her way to Westruun,
and we haven't heard from her yet.

TALIESIN: No.

MATT: "Haven't heard from her since-- You say
Westruun was under attack as well?"

LAURA: Yes, but she knew it. She was going in
secret.

MATT: "That prideful woman." She slings her hammer
off her shoulder and slams it to the ground and

says, "Well. If she doesn't arrive in the next few
hours, I'm going to gather a party and we're going

"to go to Westruun and find her."

TRAVIS: Yeah!

MARISHA: Kima-- Wait, what? Why?

LAURA: Wait, there's a dragon there, Kima, a very
large one, and she was being very, very

stealthy--

MATT: Her hammer slams into her metallic armor, and
she goes, "I've a much bigger dragon backing me up."

And she looks up to the sky for a second and
grins.

TRAVIS: Lady Kima don't give a fuck.

LAURA: We'll wait, Kima.

MATT: (frustrated sigh)

LAURA: Going in loud will only cause more
trouble.

MATT: "I'll wait a few days."

LAURA: She should be here by then.

MARISHA: I can always attempt to scry, and see if
I can check in on her.

MATT: "Okay. Not a bad idea."

MARISHA: Okay.

MATT: "Okay. I need a drink."

MARISHA: Let's get somewhere safe.

MATT: She charges off, looking for the nearest
tavern.

MARISHA: Here, I guess. I don't know. I forget
it's not overrun by vampires, I'm sorry. Sorry, I

forgot; it's all right now.

LAURA: Maybe somewhere safe, like right here--

MARISHA: Like right here, sorry, there's a lot
going on.

MATT: Zahra and Kashaw looking around expectantly
as you continue this conversation. Kash crosses

his arms, goes, "Great place. There's a lot of
white." Of which Zahra comes and steps over and is

like, "Don't worry, darling. (laughter) So,
sleeping arrangements, I hope?"

LAURA: Yes, the castle.

TALIESIN: We'll be putting you up in the castle.

MATT: "That's what I like to hear. All right. To
the castle, Kash?"

"Sure. It's better than, well,
it's better than anything.

"Let's go for the
castle." And they both make their way towards

Whitestone Castle, to find a comfortable place to
get themselves situated in their new

surroundings.

LAURA: So we're healed up, we are healed, we are
not running the risk of dying at any moment,

because we've been healed.

MATT: What is that? What is that blur of green?

TRAVIS: It's a fucking leprechaun, get it!

SAM: Sorry, sorry, sorry.

LIAM: You should be.

MARISHA: Your shirt, is that new? Because I love
it so much.

SAM: Thanks! But I'm also wearing a tie because
it's a special night.

LAURA: Right. It's a special occasion.

SAM: (sighs) So, is Allura dead?

(laughter)

TRAVIS: Kima just left, so--

LAURA: She's on her way to a tavern. Kima's
drinking it up. Grog! Kima's drinking it up.

MARISHA: Are we heading to a tavern?

TALIESIN: We're heading to the castle. We're going
to talk to friends, we're going to take a look at--

TRAVIS: Corpse armor, hello.

MARISHA: Oh, corpse armor.

TRAVIS: Yeah. You know, the thing that almost
killed our friend over here?

LAURA: It did kill me. According to you.

TALIESIN: It-- yes.

TRAVIS: Yeah, but, I mean, you're here, so you
didn't die. But you did. But you didn't. But you

did. And then you didn't.

LAURA: Thanks, Grog.

TRAVIS: Yep.

MATT: All right, so. You guys all heading to the
castle?

TALIESIN: Yes.

MATT: You head to the castle. Cassandra isn't there
at the moment, but Keeper Yennen is currently

there with a few other members of the makeshift
council you guys put together towards the end. One

of the heads of the entire farming establishment
here in Whitestone is with them, and they're

having a conversation. As Zahra and Kashaw burst
in first, he's like, "I'm sorry, we're not

"currently taking visitors, could you-- Oh. Friends
of yours, I presume?"

TALIESIN: Good friends.

LAURA: Helpers, actually. They're going to be here
for a while. Hopefully.

MATT: "Gracious. Oh, I see you yourself carry the
vestments of a man of the cloth. Who brings your

"power this day?"

Kashaw gives him a look and goes, "You don't even
want to know, buddy." Walks past him.

TALIESIN: That was a really good Kashaw.

MATT: "Very well! I assume they're staying here as
well."

TALIESIN: Yes. We appreciate it greatly.

MATT: "They'll be taken care of, Percival."

TALIESIN: They will be well worth your time. We
also have something that needs a bit of study. We

found something. We found two objects of power
that we think may help us turn the table against

the dragons.

LAURA: Two objects?

MATT: "This is good news."

TALIESIN: Two objects.

LAURA: What was the second?

TALIESIN: There was a necklace.

LAURA: There was?

TALIESIN: There was.

SAM: You were dead.

LAURA: Oh. I must have missed it because I was
dead. That's right.

MATT: "Dead?!"

TALIESIN: It's been a very long day.

SAM: Mostly dead.

MARISHA: Be very careful when handling this armor,
is what we're trying to say.

TRAVIS: Or don't handle it, and we'll take care of
it.

MATT: "So, the armor is what killed you?"

LAURA: No, actually, a trap that Percival set off
is what killed me.

TALIESIN: Yes, the--

LIAM: What?

TALIESIN: -- trap was a bit-- it was a bit, ah--
there was a trap. And it was well-protected.

LIAM: What?

LAURA: What, what, what? What?

TALIESIN: Yes, what.

LAURA: What?

TRAVIS: (mutters) He didn't know that.

LAURA: What? So these Vestiges.

MATT: "Vestiges."

LAURA: These leathers, these things.

MATT: "Um--" And he puts a couple of small,
armored, like, studded-leather gloves on and has

to carefully reach out for the vestments as you
hand them. And he grabs them. "Give me a bit of

"time with them, perhaps, I need to clarify what
this enchantment may be. Do you mind staying

"around, just in case?"

TALIESIN: Not at all.

MATT: "Don't feel strange that I don't trust this,
but, based on your history with it, I would like a

"little backup." So, he carries you off down the
far hallway, you didn't get this far into

Whitestone when you initially came through, but
towards the back there was a small study area

converted into a research establishment largely
set up for the ziggurat beneath the city. He

clears off an area of the table and sets this
down. And he takes some time working with the

vestments before he eventually, and it's this
awkward quiet of hearing him mutter to himself and

bring out a symbol and bring over a minor
enchantment to reveal information, that tearing

into the divinity, the divine magic that is
granted to him, before he says, "This carries the

"mark of the Raven Queen, a very strong mark. I've
not seen power like this in but an object."

LAURA: It was worn by one of her champions. The
great Purvan.

MATT: "That's a strange name."

LAURA: Yeah.

MATT: "Regardless, it appears that this armor does
help fortify one's defenses from any sort of

"physical damage, as well as give you a chance of
surviving even the most dangerous of near-death

"experiences. It also grants a fluid resistance to
the elements. Here."

And he hands it over, and-- who would like to take
this? Item card to--

TRAVIS: Well, you died for it, you--

LAURA: I think I like it, but I'll just look at
it.

MARISHA: It's leather?

LAURA: It's leather.

MATT: So, to give you the specifics on it, it's
plus two to AC. Magical on top of the studded

leather armor. Plus two enchantment, beyond just
the studded leather armor. It does give you

advantage on death saving throws.

SAM: You'll need that.

MATT: As it is called the Deathwalker's Ward, and
once per short rest, you can set it to be

resistant to one of the five types of damage.

LAURA: You choose which one.

MATT: You choose. You can change it. You can leave
it all on one, but if you want to change it during

a short rest, you can shift it from fire or cold,
or lightning--

TRAVIS: Acid, or necrotic.

SAM: You're, like, indestructible now!

MARISHA: Do you have fancy leather armor right
now? What does your armor do right now? Anything?

LIAM: It's acid-resistant.

LAURA: My armor's acid-resistant, I sort of stole
it from my brother. Do you want your

acid-resistant armor back, then?

LIAM: Whatever you want, Vex'ahlia.

LAURA: He's in such a sour mood lately.

TRAVIS: Well, yeah. Well, what about the
necklace?

MATT: "The necklace as well?"

TALIESIN: I hand it over.

MATT: He takes it, and he goes, "Well, the chain
on this necklace is not actually part of the

"enchantment, it's merely to hold the crystal
itself. The crystal is the item of particular

"interest here, this-- oh, wait a minute." He takes
it and he scans over the table and pulls up a

jeweler's eyepiece and inspects it closely.
"There's something inside this gem."

TRAVIS: Uh-oh.

MARISHA: (groans) Not again.

LAURA: What is it?

MARISHA: Why do things like living in gems? It
can't be comfortable.

TRAVIS: It might be a worm.

LAURA: It's like tequila.

MATT: "I can't actually ascertain the nature of
whatever being is encased within this, but--"

LAURA: There's a being, it's a being?

MARISHA: Encased.

LAURA: Is it a soul gem?

MARISHA: Like something put it in there.

MATT: He takes a moment and concentrates on his
holy symbol of Pelor, and you can see as he puts

aside the eyepiece, his eyes glaze over with a
grayish, frosted white color, at which point he

inspects the gem very closely, and there's this
slight vibration in the air around him. As soon as

it fades about a minute later, he pulls back and
goes, "This is referred to as the Raven's Slumber.

"It's actually a small gateway to a tiny
pocket-plane."

SAM: A pocket-plane?

MARISHA: Ooh.

MATT: "It can contain one creature. You have to
contact whatever it was, and it can't be too big,

"but it can essentially contain something
indefinitely within this."

LAURA: But something's already in there?

MATT: "Something is already in this."

TRAVIS: Awesome.

SAM: Something that we can summon?

MARISHA: Any way we can find out what it possibly
is before we summon it?

MATT: "Unfortunately, I do not have that
capability."

LAURA: It was buried with--

SAM: I'll take that.

LAURA: Oh, that's really smart to give to
Scanlan.

TRAVIS: Well, like, you said "not too big" though,
right?

MATT: "The confines of the space, at least, as
part of the enchantment, seem rather small. A bit

"larger than you, maybe, but not much more than
that."

TRAVIS: Right, right, okay.

MATT: "Here."

TRAVIS: Please.

MARISHA: Well, does it change size?

LAURA: This is maybe the worst thing that
Scanlan's ever held outside of that gun that you

had, Percy.

TRAVIS: What are you talking about? Can we take it
in the woods, open it up, and if it sucks we kill

it, and if not, we've got a new pet.

MARISHA: We don't even know how to open it up! Do
we know how to open it up?

TRAVIS: Oh, we will find a way.

LAURA: It was buried with the Raven Queen's
champion, I mean, it could be incredibly

dangerous. Or it could be incredibly good, and he
trapped it, and they're bad, right?

LIAM: The same could be said about your new
pajamas.

LAURA: They are so beautiful. I do like feathers.

TRAVIS: What do they smell like?

LAURA: (sniffs) Like (sniffs) must and mold. And
birds, really.

TRAVIS: (laughing) And birds? Eesh.

MATT: "So, is that all you require of me?"

TRAVIS: I require Percy to tell us what the fuck's
up with the necklace he's reading about.

TALIESIN: Just what he said.

LAURA: Yeah, he already told us about it.

SAM: Once we release whatever is inside of it, we
can use this necklace as a weapon, to--

TALIESIN: It's a cage.

SAM: To trap people.

MARISHA: Hang on, okay. Let's think about this.
What do we remember from the great Purvan's

story?

LAURA: Well, let me look at my book?

MARISHA: What did he fight?

SAM: I just remember that Purvan's story touched
me. Touched me in inappropriate ways.

TRAVIS: (laughing) No, no, no.

LAURA: You know what I like about this particular
piece of paper is that you made it on cardstock so

it's extra special instead of the regular paper.

MATT: It's legendary.

TALIESIN: Legendary cardstock.

MARISHA: Can we get purple cardstock up in here?

LAURA: I'm talking to Matt, bitches. Okay. I
forgot what I was going to say-- Oh, my book! My

30-gold book! Does it say anything about what
Purvan fought?

MATT: All right! You read through. There were many,
many things throughout the war that were fought:

entities from the Nine Hells, there was a faction
of the Abyss that came in as a third bit of evil

in this whole conflict; and while not in alliance
against the other forces of chaos, there were many

forces of chaos lashing out at what was nearby. So
the Champion's-- there was no specific entity that

was his chosen, or at least, what you can
ascertain to be a specific being of hatred,

although it does speak of Purvan, the Champion of
the Raven Queen, keeping with him an ally.

LAURA: Like Trinket.

MATT: It doesn't say the nature of the ally, it
just says the dangerous and respected Galdric.

LAURA: (gasps) Galdric.

TALIESIN: Well, there are some options here.

LAURA: What?

TALIESIN: No, that won't work, damn it.

TRAVIS: Well, say it, come on.

TALIESIN: Well, I was thinking we could find a
safe place, surround it, let it out, and if it's

dangerous, take care of it. We could even take it
down into the pits beneath the castle so that if

it's a magical creature, it would be harmless.
Except I don't know if we could actually release

it down there. I don't know--

LAURA: Yeah, what if it touches the thing, and
it--

SAM: There's also magic resistance down there.

TALIESIN: Yeah, which means it wouldn't work in
the first place.

MARISHA: What if he's friendly? I mean, he talks
about being an ally.

TALIESIN: It might be an ally.

MARISHA: Well then, wouldn't we want to save it?

LAURA: An ally of Purvan! An ally of Purvan's!

TALIESIN: Yes.

LAURA: Is Purvan a good guy?

TALIESIN: Yes.

LAURA: I thought the Raven Queen was not good!

TALIESIN: No, the Raven Queen--

MARISHA: She's like-- neutral.

TALIESIN: Can I make a roll for this?

MATT: Make a religion check.

TALIESIN: Okay, thank you. Nope, nope, it's St.
Patty's Day.

TRAVIS: Don't kill anybody.

LAURA: Yeah, with these green dice.

TALIESIN: Religion or history?

MATT and TRAVIS: Religion.

TALIESIN: 11.

MATT: 11. The general essence of the Raven Queen:
she is both loved and feared in equal parts. She

does not lord over the afterlife, the underworld,
whatever you may call it-- she lords over the

moment and the transition of death, which is
largely considered neither a good nor evil, just a

natural force. It could be accepted either way.
Many men fear it, and fear her for that reason,

and there are those that instead embrace it as the
inevitable. As to the true nature of her intent,

no one really knows. It's part of her mystique.

TRAVIS: So, like, even if we let out the glorious
Ball-lick or whatever his name is, like, if he's

bad, we can't really put him back in, right?

TALIESIN: No, we actually can. Actually, we can
put him back in.

TRAVIS: What, we touch him with it and he goes
back in?

SAM: Correct.

MATT: After a saving throw.

MARISHA: Maybe we should save him and release him
when he'll be valuable to us?

TALIESIN: So would a trap. We could also trap
other creatures--

LAURA: It's like a Poké Ball! Right? It's like a
Pokémon?

TALIESIN: Yes, it's exactly like a Poké Ball.

MARISHA: Who knows if he'll go back in willingly?

TALIESIN: You don't have to go in willingly,
that's sort of the point.

MATT: I guess you could technically use it that way,
yeah.

MARISHA: But wouldn't we rather be friendly with
him than him be angry at us the next time we

release him?

TALIESIN: I'm more excited about the idea of
carrying around an empty trap.

MARISHA: But we could win both. But we could have
a trap and a friend.

LIAM: I think Percy is right that we should let it
out now because it's a question mark, no matter

what. Whatever, it's all theories. We don't know
what we're getting into, and better that it pop

out now, on its own, and not while we're facing a
fucking beholder.

LAURA: I think we should do it in the forest
outside of Vasselheim.

TALIESIN: Or the forest outside of Whitestone.

SAM: Vasselheim? We're here.

MARISHA: Why don't we try and do a little bit more
research on Galdric first?

SAM: That would be too careful.

TRAVIS: Yeah, come on. Come on.

SAM: Vex! Just open it!

LIAM: Percival. Are there any libraries here?

TALIESIN: Not really, anymore.

LIAM: What about a personal collection in your
family?

TALIESIN: Didn't they ravage most of our
collection?

MATT: Elements have been ravaged. Elements of
family history have been destroyed so that there

couldn't be large connections, or the end of the
bloodline itself being too prominently displayed

within the castle itself. There is still a library
there, though from your knowledge-- and you've

read through most of those books growing up-- a
lot of them are loose history books; a lot of them

are more encyclopedia-like, general knowledge--

TALIESIN: She wasn't a revered deity in this part
of the world, we don't have a lot--

LAURA: All right, yeah, let's do it. Woods!

TRAVIS: Woods! Woods! Woods!

TALIESIN: Woods, or Vasselheim, that's actually
not a bad idea to get far away from Whitestone.

TRAVIS: No, because then somebody else'll come
along and kill it.

SAM: Plus they don't like magic.

TALIESIN: This is sort of our secret, and we
should perhaps keep this--

LAURA: Okay.

TALIESIN: Well, we were going to go take a look
at--

MARISHA: (muffled) What if--

TRAVIS: You got shit in your mouth.

MARISHA: We g-- mm, sorry. Little bit of saliva.

LIAM: Goodberries?

MARISHA: Snacks. We go to those goliath caves,
right outside of Whitestone, that were abandoned.

TRAVIS: Stone giant caves?

MARISHA: Those!

TRAVIS: Shit. Made me feel like I had to poop for
a second, there. Goliath caves, fuck.

MARISHA: Sorry! I just remembered you recognized
them. They were empty, and abandoned, we could go there.

TRAVIS: Yeah!

LAURA: Is that close to your family?

TRAVIS: Nope.

MARISHA: No, we saw it on the way into
Whitestone.

TALIESIN: It's just a couple hours away, correct?

LAURA: Oh.

MATT: It's, I'd say roughly three, three and a
half hours northwest of here.

LAURA: Let's do it!

MATT: Yeah, it's where the forest of the Alabaster
Sierras ends and the actual Alabaster Sierra

mountain range begins, is where that transitions.

TALIESIN: We can take a day and do this.

LAURA: All right, sure. Let's do it. All right.
What do you think? Good idea? Good idea?

LIAM: Sure, yes, yes, yes, Keyleth had a good
idea, yes.

MATT: All right. So.

LAURA: We're healed, yes?

TALIESIN: Yes.

MARISHA: We're healed, right? Did we sleep? Do we
need to sleep?

LIAM: I thought we rested before we went down
under the water, though--

LAURA: No, we did, we didn't rest since then.

LIAM: I don't remember resting afterwards. And I
was there.

TRAVIS: I don't either. I remember I peed on a
lake, and then we went under it.

MATT: Yeah, I think you guys decided instead of
resting to come to rest here in Whitestone.

LAURA: Yeah, we need to sleep, y'all!

TALIESIN: Let's take a sleep, and we'll do it in
the morning.

TRAVIS: What time is it, about?

MATT: I'd say by now, with as much time as you
spent in the temple, from waking up in the

morning, it's getting four in the afternoon, five
in the afternoon. The sun's starting to come down, so.

LAURA: I'm going to cast Cure Wounds on myself.

SAM: Aren't we going to sleep?

LAURA: But it's four in the afternoon! There's
other things to do today.

MARISHA: Like drink?

LAURA: Like find out how Gilmore's doing and see
Pike.

MARISHA: And I should probably scry and check in
on Allura, right?

TALIESIN: I've got some work to do.

MATT: It's up to you guys. Yeah, and you're
starting to push towards the bottom of your

ammunition stack anyway, Percy.

TALIESIN: I need to, yeah, to do a little-- and
I've got a little thing I want to work on.

MATT: Cool. All right, so, who's doing what
first?

TALIESIN: I'm going to take Vax aside very
quickly.

TRAVIS: Let's do that first!

TALIESIN: I had a careless moment, and I
apologize. And you're the first apology I'm

putting forward. I don't know if I would have done
anything different, but I hope you know that I

would've never forgiven myself.

LIAM: What're you talking about?

TALIESIN: I rushed in and triggered the trap that
almost killed your sister.

LIAM: That killed my sister.

TALIESIN: I can't say that.

LIAM: What do you mean?

TALIESIN: I was careless.

LIAM: Well, what happened, Percival?

TALIESIN: I felt the danger had passed, and I
moved too quickly, and opened the casket without

thinking. That's all. I just didn't think.

LIAM: You just opened it? Just like that?

TALIESIN: I was tired, wasn't thinking. Sometimes
we move too quickly. But I want you to know that

it would've-- I'm very glad that she's alive,
because I don't think I could have lived with

myself.

LIAM: All right. Could you do me a favor?

TALIESIN: Yes.

LIAM: In the future-- If there is anything that
your little heart desires inside of a box-- In the

future, could you check with my sister or myself
first?

TALIESIN: That's the hope, yes. That was more of a
lesson than I was hoping for. Thankfully not too

much of one.

LIAM: Well--

TALIESIN: And none of us are beyond mistakes,
but... that is a mistake that I am going to be

thinking about for a very long time. We are going
into dangerous territory, and we all have to think

a little bit more. And she especially, I-- I
couldn't--

LIAM: Well listen, Percy. We are not playing a
game.

TALIESIN: No.

LIAM: And we will all make mistakes, and I wager I
will make my fair share. I've little doubt. And

Percival, I want to apologize. I'm sorry. But--

And I punch him in his know-it-all fucking mouth.

MATT: Do you attempt to move out of the way, or
take it?

TALIESIN: Yeah, let's take it.

MATT: All right. (impact sound) Decks you square
in the-- for as hefty as a punch it was? Doesn't

hurt quite as much as you expected. But it's not
the physical pain that hurts, more than the action

and the knowledge that there are more
repercussions to your rash decision than even you

initially anticipated.

LIAM: Goodnight, Percival.

TALIESIN: Goodnight, Vax.

SAM: It's four in the afternoon!

(laughter)

TALIESIN: I'm going to work. I'm going into my
studio.

MATT: All right, who else wants to do something?

MARISHA: Where'd Kima go?

MATT: Kima is actually-- she's begun day-drinking
into the night! So yeah, she's currently by

herself in one of the few functional taverns in
Whitestone. It's fairly empty at the moment,

especially at this hour as the sun slowly sets.
She's not heavy drinking but she's definitely

nursing a tankard and quietly contemplating as she
sits at the edge of the bar with her hands around

the tankard. She's staring at her reflection as
she spins it slowly on the wood. You can hear it

(scuffing) on the woodgrain.

MARISHA: Anyone else want to go to the--

LAURA: I'm going with you, yeah.

MATT: There's like a few other random patrons, but
no one catches your eye. No one specifically.

SAM: I'll come, too. Well, actually, wait. Grog,
what're you doing?

TRAVIS: Nothing yet.

SAM: I'm with Grog.

MATT: Okay. So the two of you, into the tavern--
she doesn't notice you guys.

MARISHA: I go up and put my hand on her shoulder.

MATT: "Keyleth!"

MARISHA: Hey! How's it going?

MATT: "Better."

MARISHA: Yeah.

LAURA: I lean up against the bar, next to you
guys.

MARISHA: Want to check in on Allura?

MATT: "Let's do it."

MARISHA: Is there an empty room around here?

MATT: She looks over to the barkeep. You all stare
over and the barkeep is currently there like

wiping down the bar section. "For how long?"

LAURA: For a couple hours.

MARISHA: Doesn't need to be that long.

MATT: "Two silver?"

LAURA: We saved your life? And the entire town.

MATT: "You are fine to use it as you please for
the remainder of the afternoon. Just don't mess it

"up, please."

MARISHA: Sure. We'll try really hard to find
better things to do with our time. Okay.

MATT: All right, you make your way up and the
place is fairly vacant, there are a couple of

rooms that are currently partially-- the doors are
ajar and you hear voices in there, and you

recognize it's a couple of the refugees that you
guys brought over from your keep, currently holed

up in this tavern. An inn floor on the second
floor. But there are a number of open rooms right

now that you could go ahead and step into for
use.

MARISHA: Just pick one.

MATT: Okay. So. Do you want to go ahead and
attempt a Scry ritual?

MARISHA: Yes!

MATT: Focusing on...?

MARISHA: The flower that I gave her before we left.

LAURA: Ooh, good call.

MATT: All right, so. As you all sit down, Kima
sitting across from you, arms closed. She looks at

you intensely with this really direct glare,
waiting for some sort of sign of an answer or

information. As you complete the ritual
preparation of the scrying, your vision transcends

your form, jettisoned through the ceiling and into
the clouds. Clouds rush past, you can feel the

wind pushing across your face, your hair, and as
the clouds part you see, below, you see Westruun.

And from Westruun you can see most of the city, as
you recall, and a large portion of it currently

looks toppled-over and pushed into ruin. There are
no longer burning black clouds, but white smoke,

long after a fire or some sort of an impact,
lazily drifting off some of those ruins. It

focuses even closer, and you see very little
populace in the streets. Most everyone's either

indoors or not visible at the moment. Your vision
clicks in once again, and you can see currently

some sort of dark room hidden in Westruun. You
see, for a brief instant, a flicker of light, and

you see Drake Thunderbrand and Allura both
gathering a few small books under their arms,

silently waiting, quietly. You hear (impact
sounds) some heavy footfalls above. They both just

stay quiet, stay quiet. Allura stays still for a
moment. She looks over at Drake. They both take

hands and then (whoosh) convert into that same
energy form you saw that jettisoned out of

Greyskull Keep, that echoes down a long hallway
that you previously didn't see was attached to

this room. It leads to a stone spiral staircase
that goes upward before these two dual sparks

travel through the small crack between where the
edge of a trap door and a wooden floor is as the

sparks course upward into the now-setting sun. You
can see amongst the sparks the mostly collapsed

rubble of the Cobalt Reserve, the large library in
the center of Westruun. You can see dozens of

corpses that have been largely dissolved. You can
see what remnants of their bodies have been eaten

away by some sort of caustic material, their arms
and fingers tightened up as the muscles pull into

this horrible, gnarled visage of what once were
the living residents of Westruun. You do see, as

the spark comes to a stop for a second in its
movement, and you hear briefly overhead (wingbeats)

and you see rush overhead, wings fully
spread, the black dragon that you had briefly

encountered in Emon streak upward, roaring loudly,
towards Gatshadow, the tall, dark spire mountain

just north of Westruun. (whoosh) And as it heads
up there, the sparks (electric sound) continue

their trek through the streets, and at that point
the ritual fades, its vision unable to maintain

its focus. Your vision is pulled back up into the
clouds and then thrust back into your current

position and with a shock you find yourself back in
the tavern.

LAURA: What did you see? Is she all right?

MARISHA: She's alive, her and Drake both are
alive.

MATT: "Good. Where are they going?"

MARISHA: They're at the Cobalt Reserve, which is
in ruins, as well as the rest of Westruun.

LAURA: Did you see the dragon?

MARISHA: Yes, the black dragon is there. Looks
like he's taken up residence in the black spire--

tower. What was it called?

LAURA: Gatshadow?

MARISHA: That one.

MARISHA: Gatshadow. Allura--

LAURA: Could you communicate with her when you
scry? I don't know how it works.

MARISHA: No, I can just look in and see.

LAURA: All right.

MARISHA: She was grabbing the last few important
tomes, remnants left from the Cobalt Library, I

mean, Reserve.

MATT: "They staying in Westruun?"

MARISHA: It didn't look like it.

MATT: "Where are they going?"

MARISHA: I don't know, I didn't see.

MATT: "Did you talk about where you--"

LAURA: We left word. And told her we were coming
here.

MATT: "Here to Whitestone?"

LAURA: Yes. If you wait, she'll be here.

MATT: "Who else is coming?"

LAURA: Drake.

MATT: "Drake. Anybody else on the Council
coming?"

SAM: We brought some Council members, right? Were
any among our--

MATT: You're not there, you're with Grog.

SAM: Oh, that's right, I'm sorry, oh, I'm not
there!

(laughter)

SAM: So, Grog! Want to play some bocce ball?

(laughter)

MARISHA: I don't know who all's coming.

LAURA: Uriel.

MATT: "Dead? Well, that's great. That's fantastic.
What about the rest?"

MARISHA: His wife and children are here.

MATT: "Here, okay."

MARISHA: As well as Gilmore.

LAURA: Gilmore's Glorious Goods.

MATT: "Right, right."

LAURA: Wonderful place to buy all sorts of
products, if it were still... standing.

MATT: "Huh. I've only heard things, I've not met
this 'Gilmore'."

MARISHA: You haven't met Gilmore!? Man, I just
assume everyone knows each other.

MATT: "Anybody else? Tofor?"

LAURA: Yes, maybe...? Yes, Tofor...?

MARISHA: He might have... been... slain...?

LAURA: Which one is Tofor?

MARISHA: She's the dragonborn--

LAURA: Yes, Tofor-- they did, I think Tofor is--
definitely maybe here.

MATT: Last you heard, two Council members that
were confirmed still alive by Gilmore when you

found him-- or, confirmed by Uriel's wife and
family-- thank you, sorry, were Tofor and Asum.

LAURA: Yes.

MATT: So both were two of the ones that were saved
by Gilmore, and then once he was too wounded to

continue, they left to seek for survivors in Emon.
That was the last you heard of them.

LAURA: Oh. They're not actually here, then. Yes.
They're looking for other survivors, Tofor and Asum.

MATT: "In the place where this-- and what's this
dragon you keep talking about?"

LAURA: Oh, shit, you don't know anything. Thordak!
Big. Terrible. Red.

MATT: As you say the name again, you can see her
eyes resonate with a clarity, and where once was

this very intense expression and air of demanding
information suddenly recedes into this look of

sudden fear, and she's briefly lost in thought.

LAURA: Yes, you defeated him once. He escaped the
Fire Realm.

MARISHA: Not only did he escape, he tore a giant
tear in the rifts between the Fire Realm and ours.

MATT: (sighs deeply) "Thordak." And you can see,
she's starting to hyperventilate suddenly, like,

for all of her strong exterior, this is the first
time, aside from the brief hit of the beholder's

ray earlier, you see fear in her eyes, and she
starts standing up. (pants) "I need to get some air."

MARISHA: Kima, Kima, it'll be--

MATT: "I need to--"

MARISHA: Sit here, you want to sit down?

MATT: "I need to get s-- I need to get some air."

And she storms out of the room.

MARISHA: Let's go outside.

LAURA: Actually, Keyleth--

MARISHA: What?

LAURA: I shut the door behind Kima.

MARISHA: Okay.

LAURA: I want to talk to you.

MARISHA: Yeah.

LAURA: I would ask my brother, but, knowing him,
he would walk away. What happened?

MARISHA: Keyleth has a hard time looking her in
the eye.

LAURA: Look at me, Keyleth! Be strong! You're
royalty. Tell me what happened.

MARISHA: Vex, I don't want to ever see you like
that again. I don't want to ever see anybody like

that again.

LAURA: I grab both sides of her face and force her
to look at me. I'm all right. I'm still here.

Okay? I need you to tell me what happened. Because
between us? Vax is off. Something's wrong. And I

need to know what it is.

MARISHA: We all watched you die.

LAURA: Yes.

MARISHA: It's like--

LAURA: How did I get back? Who brought me back?
Kashaw, Zahra, my brother. Anyone else?

MARISHA: I guess... you could say, probably an
unseen entity, an unseen force. Oh, I'm

lightheaded.

LAURA: Sit down.

MARISHA: Okay.

LAURA: There's a bed. Sit down.

MARISHA: Percy--

LAURA: Percy helped.

MARISHA: Let's skip that. When we brought you
back, Kashaw performed a resurrection ritual.

LAURA: Like we did with Pike.

MARISHA: Yes. And he called upon a deity and at
first he was afraid that it was Vesh. Which he was

quite terrified about.

LAURA: His wife.

MARISHA: Yes. That, I don't believe, is the
presence that answered his call.

LAURA: Okay. Fluttery words here, darling. Get to
the point.

MARISHA: I thought I was going to lose you both. I
thought I was going to lose you and Vax.

LAURA: Why Vax? Did he get hurt as well? No. What
did he do?

MARISHA: He-- I don't know. I don't know what he
did. He said to take him instead, is what he told

the entity. He offered his life for yours. And my
biggest fear was that neither of you were going to

come back. He offered his life for you. And for
all we know, that offer was accepted.

LAURA: Right.

MARISHA: If I had to guess, it was probably the
Raven Queen herself.

LAURA: Well. It's rather suiting, isn't it?

MARISHA: He seems to do that quite a lot.

LAURA: Yes. Keyleth? Thank you, dear. And I
leave.

MATT: Okay.

MARISHA: I stay behind and burst into tears.

MATT: Okay. Grog and Scanlan! What're you guys
doing?

(relieved laughter)

LIAM: (Grog voice) Go fish.

TRAVIS: So-- what do you want to do?

SAM: I don't know. I hadn't really thought about
it. Do you have any games with you?

TRAVIS: No.

SAM: Anything in the Bag of Holding?

TRAVIS: I think there's some orc parts in there
that've been in for a couple months.

SAM: Doesn't sound very fun.

TRAVIS: Right. I got all nervous when they
mentioned a goliath's cave, so I need to go

boom-boom.

SAM: Should I play a song so no one can hear it?

TRAVIS: Might help. Like, stand guard outside the
door.

SAM: Yeah, yeah. A little muzak.

TRAVIS: Would you mind?

SAM: It's what I'm here for.

TRAVIS: Can I go drop some ordnance?

MATT: And as you find one of the few local
ramshackle outhouses-- none are quite

goliath-sized, and it's an uncomfortable
experience, but thank God you brought a bard along

or you would have woken up half the populace just
going to bed, as Scanlan, I--

SAM: Nothing to see here, everybody! (plays random
chords on the harmonica) Nothing to see here!

TRAVIS: (coughs, then farts) Oh!

LAURA: Okay, okay, okay, okay.

(laughter)

TRAVIS: Now, the music's playing, right?

MATT: Yeah.

TRAVIS: It's just a stall, just me?

MATT: Yeah, yeah.

TRAVIS: All right, can I take out Craven Edge?

MATT: Yeah.

TRAVIS: All right.

MARISHA: In the outhouse? Sorry, keep going!

TRAVIS: It's the palace, this is where all the
best thoughts and conversations happen! I don't

know how it is at your house.

LIAM: Keep in mind how confined it is, okay?

TRAVIS: Yeah!

LIAM: And go.

(laughter)

MATT: Yes. (grunting)

SAM: Sounds like a rough one in there, buddy!

MATT: As you (chuckles) as you see one of the wood
boards splinter out the side for a second--

SAM: Ah, yup, that's tacos!

TRAVIS: You might want to play a bit louder and
maybe take a few steps away, it's about to get violent.

SAM: No problem!

TRAVIS: Yep.

MATT: At that moment you focus, and as you can
feel the blade itself grow cold in your fingertips,

you can see what little bit of light that filters
through the bright orangish-red color that's

coming from the sunset, you can see a reflection
in the obsidian blade as a voice comes to your ear

and says, "You fed me well."

TRAVIS: Yeah, I did, right? I mean, we are really
doing well. Question: so, when we were fighting

that big Earthbreaker Groot-looking guy, he called
you a 'dark weapon'. Does that-- do you have

feelings, and did that hurt them?

MATT: There's a brief pause before you hear this
long, drawn-out, (heavy sigh).

TRAVIS: Right, hold on! No, no, listen. And I take
my thumb and I run it against the blade real quick.

MATT: Okay. As you do, all of a sudden the voice
goes, (gasp, contented exhale).

TRAVIS: Right, yep, sorry, listen. So, my question
is, as much as I love opening up people to feed

you, I want to know, like-- what's in it for you?

SAM: Grog, are you talking to your shit?

TRAVIS: Yeah, no, you got to let it know who's
boss!

SAM: Okay.

MATT: The voice creeps in again, this time. "There
is no feeling more terrifying than hunger. And I

"hunger forever. You help satiate that hunger. That
is our arrangement. I give you the strength of

"those you cut down, and I feed upon them. If this
is unsatisfactory, I can and have found others who

"are more willing to be part of this
arrangement--"

TRAVIS: No, no, no, I'm a big fan, really, I mean,
I am yoked out when I'm using you, it's fucking

amazing. I mean, people are flying apart, it's
like a dream. But listen, can you ever be... full?

MATT: "I have never been full before. Perhaps
you're the one to find out."

TRAVIS: I'll bet I am, actually, you're really
lucky you found me and not these other blokes, not

even half the man I am. But listen, so, there's
no, like, endgame, just to be clear, you just want

to drink and drink, 'cause I've seen the blood,
right? And usually I wipe it off, but you, like,

suck it in, and that's a little unsettling, not
going to lie.

MATT: "My hunger grows, but the air tarnishes my
blade. Perhaps we can continue this conversation

"elsewhere."

TRAVIS: (farts) Right, yeah, right. Not even a
problem. Well, look, I like the way you cut

people open, so we'll continue this another time.
And I sheathe him.

MATT: All right. As you sheathe, the last thing he
says is, "Don't forget: I hunger always."

TRAVIS: I kick the door open, and I'm like, if
you're within 200 feet, back up!

SAM: No one's out here, Grog.

TRAVIS: Oh.

SAM: Just me. Are you all right?

TRAVIS: Yeah.

SAM: I heard you say something about blood.

TRAVIS: Yeah, no, am I sweating? It was a real
workout, that one.

SAM: At some point you said, "Are you full?" Are
you talking about-- did you fill it all the way up?

TRAVIS: Yeah, the privy, you know, it was starting
to give my bum a tickle.

SAM: Wow!

TRAVIS: Yeah.

SAM: You topped it off!

TRAVIS: Yeah. Because, you know, you don't want
to, like, dip in the muck, it's, you know--

LAURA: Foul.

SAM: Not at all.

TRAVIS: Did you want to--

SAM: I think I'm good.

TRAVIS: Are you sure? I warmed it up for you,
it's, like, ready to go.

SAM: I love a good deuce, but not today, I think.

TRAVIS: All right. Fair enough. But I'm feeling so,
like, vacated--

SAM: We should go get a bite.

TRAVIS: I think you're right!

SAM: (laughs) All right, let's go.

TRAVIS: (laughing) Okay.

MATT: Okay. You guys are getting a bite. Percival,
if you want to go ahead and make a tinkering check

with dexterity modifier to create more
ammunition.

TALIESIN: Tinkering check with dexterity
modifier?

MATT: Yes.

TALIESIN: Okay.

MATT: Should be plus 11.

TALIESIN: 16.

MATT: 16, okay. We'll say, in the time that you've
had here, with the materials you purchased, and

Whitestone's pretty open to supplying you--

TALIESIN: I've got a thing.

MATT: Yeah, I'd say you're able to create roughly
40 or so simple bullets in the time that you have.

TALIESIN: Do I have time to poke at a modification
to the explosive arrow? I want to try and build a

rock breaker. I'm curious to try and build an
arrow for taking down walls or taking down doors.

MATT: Like a siege arrow?

TALIESIN: A light form of siege arrow. Basically,
I want to have a tip that actually manages to

breach stone and then an explosion that goes
outwards, so it's a shattering arrow.

MATT: All right, this'll take the remainder of
your evening. You're not going to be able to do

much else after this.

TALIESIN: I have nothing else to do.

MATT: All right. Go ahead and make a tinkering
check with your intelligence modifier.

TALIESIN: Okay. So... That's 23.

MATT: 23, okay. At the cost of roughly 150 gold
pieces, as you have to go through a few different

attempts to finally get the design right, and the
metalworking you have here is not perfected.

You're not at your workshop back at the keep,
unfortunately, so you have to work with whatever

you have here, and nothing here is designed for
the--

TALIESIN: No, I've got an okay workshop here.

MATT: Yeah. The one that you used before,
previously, but that's from mostly discarded

and-- in the time that you've been gone, it's been
cannibalized for a lot of different uses. But it's

makeshift. You manage to complete what you think
could function. You're not entirely certain as to

what the final effect will be, but it all seems to
be in place.

TALIESIN: All right.

MATT: So you can write down 'Explosive Siege
Arrow'.

TALIESIN: Siege arrow.

MATT: And we shall find out in time what it does.

MARISHA: Siege arrow. That's fun.

TALIESIN: A few things I've been working on, and
that's one of them.

MATT: So. Are you guys resting for the evening?
Anything else you wish to accomplish?

LAURA: That would probably be smart. I'm pretty tired
after dying, so I'm going to go to sleep.

MATT: Okay. Vax, anything you want to accomplish
before you--

TALIESIN: God, the guilt. Okay. Yeah.

SAM: Can I buy a torch somewhere? Just a torch?

MATT: Sure! Yeah, torches are relatively easy to
find. You want to try one?

SAM: Three.

MATT: Three torches. That's three copper.

LAURA: I bring Trinket into the castle with me,
just so you know.

MATT: After all this has happened, Trinket has
been, like, almost locked to you. Even you going

upstairs into the tavern, Trinket was like,
(plaintive bear noises) stayed out front, 'cause

Trinket's learned at this point, you can't really
go into all the taverns.

LAURA: It's hard, it's hard.

MATT: It's rough, being a bear.

SAM: And wherever we're eating, does it happen to
be near Jameson the painter's workshop?

MATT: No, but it's about a 20-minute walk, if you
wanted to go find him.

SAM: Be nice to check in with him. Grog, do you
mind walking with me?

TRAVIS: Absolutely not.

SAM: All right, so we'll truck on over to
Jameson's.

MATT: Okay. You head up to it, and this gentleman
is a painter as well as a stablehand, so you find

your way to the facility, knock on it, and
immediately as the door opens, the smell of fresh

manure hits your nose and Jameson steps out. "Can
I-- you!"

SAM: Yes! Hi!

MATT: "Hi!"

SAM: I've come back.

MATT: "I meant to deliver, but they told me not
to, because apparently it's not there anymore?"

SAM: The town, you mean.

MATT: "Town, yeah, where I was supposed to deliver
it to you."

SAM: It was wise of you to keep this precious
artifact here, because it would've surely been

destroyed en route or when it arrived--

MATT: "It's just the canvas, I don't have a-- It's
a bit too large for my specifications of framing, but--"

SAM: I'm sure it's huge. Did you finish it?

MATT: "Yes, yes! Come, come!"

SAM: Can I look?

TRAVIS: Oh please, oh please!

SAM: (laughing) Okay, let's go look!

MATT: He takes one of the hooded lanterns and
turns up the oil wick on it, and as he turns away

he brings you into the back stable area where it's
been sectioned off, and you can see there's paints

that have been dropped all across the ground and
the hay, it's this multicolored spattering, this

rainbow vomit across this section of hay floor,
and there in all of its glory, stretched across

and nailed at the corners to this far, far wall,
you see a fantastical landscape of rolling hills

and treelines rising up at the edges. You can see
a mountainscape in the distance. The lighting he

uses is magnificent. You can see why many people
in the city specifically requested that you go to

this gentleman. There atop this fantastic green
hilltop, you see on this fine white and grey steed

as it raises up, hooves in the air, is yourself,
shirt open, chest slightly fuzzy and muscular. As

you look off, your hair blowing in the breeze--

SAM: How's the face? How's the face?

MATT: The face is pretty damn spot-on.

SAM: Yes!

(laughter)

MATT: The best likeness you can find for somebody
who only had a brief reference, as he sketched you

quickly before he left, and there behind,
clutching you, from the side you can see Pike

wearing these long greyish-silver and blue robes
that are also flowing behind, a long train--

longer than it needs to be, stylistically it was a
choice in the artistics point of this-- it is

everything you hoped it would be. You paid good
money for this piece.

SAM: I'm going to request-- Grog, I need a minute
here.

TRAVIS: Oh, yeah. I understand, take--

SAM: Just to weep.

TRAVIS: Take all the time you need.

SAM: So I regard it for a few minutes, taking in
the beauty and the wonder of all I've

accomplished--

MARISHA: I have a question. Would Keyleth and
Scanlan be crying in rooms at the same time?

MATT: Right now? Yes. For different reasons
entirely.

SAM and TALIESIN: (singing) Somewhere out
there...

TRAVIS: Look at the air, look at the air
high-five. There it is.

SAM, TALIESIN and MARISHA: (singing) Beneath the
pale moonlight

TRAVIS: So white. That was the whitest of white
high fives ever.

TALIESIN: I'm imagining this as a canvas of Lisa
Frank majesty, by the way. Like, the greatest Lisa

Frank Trapper Keeper cover in all the land.

MATT: Oh, man.

(laughter)

SAM: After I weep for a few minutes, I thank
Jameson again and how much did I pay him for this

thing? You've gone above and beyond, Jameson, and
I know that you're a humble man and you don't want

me to spread word of your accomplishments, but
please allow me to write you an epic poem or a

song and tell of your artistic gifts and talents,
please.

MATT: "That would be a fine tip, sir. Please, yes,
do so."

SAM: I'll get right on it.

MATT: "Send them back to Whitestone, please, ask
for Jameson. The more I work this, hopefully I can

"make my way out of this dunghole."

SAM: Don't worry, you'll have lots of commissions
after this, I promise you.

MATT: "Great."

SAM: And I'm going to give him an extra 50 gold.

MATT: "I, um--"

LIAM: That's more than the price of a book.

MATT: "Sir, I-- thank you. Thank you, thank you."

SAM: For art supplies to get your shop up and
running.

MATT: "Of course." He looks down and he's gotten a
little bit of paint on the coins, he's like,

(muttering and stammering). He puts it aside
somewhere. "Thank you--" Wipes his hands off on a

nearby rag. "Thank you." And takes your hand and
shakes it vigorously.

SAM: So, can it be--

MATT: Yeah, he goes in and he takes his little
claw hammer down, starts pulling the nails out

from the sides and gingerly rolls up the canvas.
It takes a good, like, three minutes to roll the

thing up, and it's quite heavy as he hands it over
to you-- (heavy grunt) In your hand, yeah, it

almost takes you off your feet.

SAM: Grog! Grog!

TRAVIS: What?

SAM: Can you hold this for me?

TRAVIS: No, it's you, I mean, you're so
magnificent in it--

SAM: No, I can't do it.

TRAVIS: I don't know it-- I really--

SAM: Grog! I watched you shit for an hour!

TRAVIS: Hey, all right, I'll pick it up.

MATT: All right. You guys find your way out. At
this point night has taken; you can hear the

crickets starting to spread throughout the city.
As the rest of the blue night sky takes on--

Evening is ready, do you guys have anything else
to accomplish before the evening comes to a close?

LIAM: Wait 'til it's quiet. And I leave the room
that I've been given at Whitestone. And I find my

sister's door. And I stand outside it, and I stare
at it for a minute--

LAURA: Vax? Is that you?

LIAM: And I stealth away.

LAURA: I open the door.

MATT: Roll a stealth check, roll a perception
check.

LAURA: Shit.

LIAM: 25.

LAURA: 22. Damn it.

MATT: Nothing to be seen. Must have been your
imagination, Vex.

TRAVIS: He's good.

LIAM: And I wait for the door to close. And then I
walk to Keyleth's door. And I knock.

MATT: You hear a knock at your door.

LAURA: And horses.

MATT: The clomping of horse hooves in the
distance, apparently.

MARISHA: I open it. Hey. Hi. You okay?

LIAM: I don't know.

MARISHA: Come in. Sit down.

LIAM: I go in.

MATT: Okay.

MARISHA: How do you feel?

LIAM: I don't know. All I know is... that I felt
her. I don't know magic, I don't know anything. I

open doors, and only when the wind is blowing in
the right direction, sometimes, I think. I don't

know what happened, but I felt her.

MARISHA: Do you still feel her?

MATT: Make a perception check, Vax.

LIAM: 22.

MATT: As you're sitting there, looking down at the
ground, as she asks this question, you notice the

symbol of Sarenrae that you have stitched into the
back of your glove, what was once a very vibrant,

goldish-brass color has actually very heavily
tarnished, and the metal itself seems to have

cracked in three places. It was not this way a
day before.

LIAM: Yeah. I don't know if I did anything in
there, and I wouldn't take it back if I did, but I

don't know what I'm doing.

MARISHA: I don't know if it was very noble or very
stupid, to be honest. Probably a little bit of

both. I can attempt a Greater Restoration spell,
and see if I can sense anything.

LIAM: I don't know anything about any of that.
I'll let you.

MARISHA: Can I?

MATT: Yeah. So as you prepare your mindset for the
cleansing ritual that is the Greater

Restoration--

MARISHA: Just lay back.

MATT: As soon as the dull green energy begins to
course across your fingertips, and as you touch

the edge of his shoulder to impart his body with
the cleansing energy, it courses through his

shoulders, the spell completes. You sense no
difference in your current physicality, mindset,

and there's this pause, this silence, of no
realization, that is suddenly shattered by the

sound of a (caws). You look over and at the stone
edge of the window you guys are staying in, you

see stepping there a single dark raven, (clicks,
rapid flapping) and it takes off and flies into

the night.

MARISHA: I think this goes beyond any natural
realm that I have any bearing over. And I hug him.

I thought I was going to lose you. And I'm
terrified I'm still going to.

LIAM: Keyleth, I love you.

MARISHA: And I think I love you. I just don't know if I
can allow myself to. I'm terrified to allow myself

to. You do realize that, if by some crazy chance,
we all somehow make it through this domination

alive, with the Chroma Conclave, and I complete my
Aramente, I'll still watch all of you die.

Everything could go phenomenally well. And by
becoming Headmaster, we enter a bit of a realm of

immortality where I could live for a very, very
long time. I'm afraid every time I look at one of

your faces that it's going to be the last, and I
feel like deep down I know that day is coming. So

because of that I'm afraid to let myself feel
anything deeper than I already do.

LIAM: I quickly leave her room.

MATT: The door closes behind Vax.

MARISHA: And for the second time today Keyleth
bursts into tears. Why do people keep leaving me

in rooms alone?

MATT: All right.

TALIESIN: Stop it, you're wasting water.

MARISHA: We're in a drought, god damn it!

LAURA: When was the last time you showered,
Keyleth?

MARISHA: It's been a while.

TALIESIN: Makeup's runny.

LIAM: Go water elemental.

MATT: It's the only way. All right, as you all find
yourself coming to rest for the evening, some of

you easier than others, eventually you get your
full rest. Those who heal up to, say, full hit

points for a good night's rest here, get your hit
dice back, so not a whole lot were spent.

TRAVIS: I lose my strength bonuses.

MATT: Morning comes to you all, and-- yes?

LIAM: Sorry, just one detail. From there, I went
and fell asleep in this idiot's doorway.

MATT: Okay. All right. We will go ahead and take a
quick break, we will see you guys back here

shortly to see what is in store for Vox Machina.
So we'll be back here in a minute.

[break]

LIAM: Matt, shit on my face.

MATT: Welcome back, everybody!

SAM: It's too close!

LAURA: They caught it, that one caught it.

MATT: That was pretty close.

LIAM: All they heard was "ace."

MATT: It's all good. Welcome back, guys. We're
going to go ahead and jump back in. So as you all,

after that, for some, emotional evening, whether
that be conversational emotion or, you know,

having to go drop an emotional deuce. You know,
that's important. You find yourselves waking up to

a fresh morning in Whitestone, hints of blue sky
breaking through the cloud coverage, and that's

rare for this area because it's the northern
portion of the continent, you know that,

especially being so close to the ocean, a lot of
the cloud, heavy precipitation makes its way in

the direction of your town, so it's nice to have a
little break in that. Nonetheless, as you guys

come to consciousness and gather yourselves, your
things, and your plans for the day, what do you

wish to do?

TALIESIN: We are a city of seasonal affectation
disorder, so.

LAURA: Well, I open my door and find my brother
falling through it.

LIAM: I'm awake.

LAURA: Oh, good morning.

LIAM: Hi.

LAURA: Comfortable bed, I see.

LIAM: Yeah. Sorry, I couldn't find my room.

LAURA: Yeah, it's confusing, all these, all these
doors.

LIAM: What time's it?

LAURA: I have no idea. My nature check tells me
it's roughly, I dunno, eight? Nine? Something like

that. Seven? Maybe seven.

LIAM: Come here, you shithead. Don't fucking do
that again.

LAURA: It's not like I did it on--

LIAM: Don't fucking do that again, all right? Just
don't fucking do it again.

LAURA: All right.

LIAM: Fuck.

LAURA: I can't breathe. You're about to kill me
again.

LIAM: You'll live, you'll live. Jesus. Whoever
that is.

LAURA: So-- (laughs) I heard a rumor that you sort
of saved my life in a really creepy sort of way. I

talk to people. I talk to so many people. I find
out things. Secrets aren't safe when Vex is around.

LIAM: Is there any coffee in this fucking castle?

LAURA: Wait, wait, wait, I have a present for you,
because I feel like you're going to really like

it. Would you like it?

LIAM: That's random. All right.

LAURA: I have this armor that I think would be
really great on you. Do you want it? It's really

expensive. If you don't take it quickly, I might
change my mi--

LIAM: I don't want it.

LAURA: Oh, that was expensive cardstock.

(laughter)

LIAM: I'll give you the leather armor after I have
a chance to change.

LAURA: All right. I love you.

LIAM: (softly) I know. I know.

LAURA: Let's get breakfast.

LIAM: Yeah.

MATT: From that point, the smell of coffee begins
to fill the air from the inside of the Whitestone

castle halls. The servants have prepared
breakfast, and a meal is ready for you. Grog

jumping to attention as the scent reaches your
nose. The rest of you all slowly find your way

back down. You eat--

MARISHA: Do we come out and see Vax in the
armor?

MATT: Are you putting on the armor?

LIAM: I'm just looking at it in the hallway.

MARISHA: So I guess I step out and see him looking
at it in the hallway.

LIAM: Still pretty tired, to be honest. Didn't
sleep a lot in the doorway.

MATT: Yeah. Some of you guys step out, and you see
Vax standing in the hallway, clutching in his

hands, looking over all the various, like,
pushed-in, engraved runes across the leatherwork,

the raven feathers that adorn the bottom of the
mantle.

LAURA: Careful, it smells a lot like must and mold
and birds.

MARISHA: I walk by and... briefly lock eyes and
keep going without saying anything.

MATT: Okay.

TRAVIS: Oh shit, you got the armor now?

LAURA: He stole it, what can I say? He is a really
sneaky, stealthy kind of guy.

TRAVIS: Nice.

LAURA: Yeah. Fair and square.

LIAM: I just took it for fashion purposes, I suppose.

TRAVIS: Oh, you need all the help you can get.

LIAM: Yeah.

SAM: Should we go out in the woods and unleash an
undead beast that will kill us all?

TRAVIS: Yes! Christmas morning! Who has that, by
the way?

SAM: I do.

TRAVIS: Oh! Yeah!

SAM: Don't worry, it's safe.

TRAVIS: Where d'you keep it?

SAM: Oh! Hold on-- Got a pouch or some-- you know
what? It's back in my room.

MATT: All right. You go retrieve it.

SAM: Got it!

TRAVIS: Where's Percy?

LAURA: Where's Pike? We should bring her with us.
Can we bring Pike with us? I know she's taking

care of Gilmore, but.

SAM: Mm, that's possibly more important. I think
this thing'll be fine!

LAURA: We need some sort of somebody that can
heal, I think we've learned this for ourselves.

SAM: I can heal!

TRAVIS: Yeah, we got potions, we're fine. It's
probably, like, a big Saint Bernard. What's the

big deal?

LAURA: (sighs) Okay. We learn nothing, carry on.

TRAVIS: Where's Percy?

TALIESIN: I'm right here.

TRAVIS: Oh! Shit, you were quiet. Hello.

TALIESIN: (coughs) Hello. Good morning.

TRAVIS: Need any coffee? An enema?

TALIESIN: What?

MARISHA: A coffee enema?

TALIESIN: What!? No. I'm fine. Good morning.

LIAM: I'm going to walk off with this shit.

MATT: Okay.

TRAVIS: And we go outside with the necklace.

SAM: Yeah, where're we headed?

TRAVIS: The woods!

LAURA: No. The caves. I thought we were going to
the--

MARISHA: Going to the caves on the edge of the
woods.

MATT: Yeah. It's the caves that are--

MARISHA: Going to go through the woods.

LIAM: (sings) Into the woods!

MATT: So. You all gather together and make your
way northwest of Whitestone, towards where you

found the stone giant fortress and the series of
caves that are in the mountain behind it. You get

there; it's still seemingly abandoned. You case
the area for a while. No noticeable movement other

than a few woodland entities that exist in that
vicinity.

LAURA: Primeval Awareness! (radar sounds)

MATT: Okay. That is now the sound it makes every
time you do it.

LAURA: I like it.

MATT: Yeah, so hold onto that one. I'll make that
a new ringtone sound for you guys. What are you

looking for?

LAURA: Oh, there's so many things I could sense!

MATT: Yeah.

TRAVIS: What about sirens?

LAURA: Sirens?

TRAVIS: Wait, what are those things called? The
things that took our horses the last time we were here?

MATT: Harpies?

TRAVIS: Yeah, yeah, whatever.

LAURA: Sure! Harpies.

MATT: For how many miles is it?

LAURA: Six miles!

MATT: Six miles? Yeah, there's a few blips on the
far, far western side of here. You get the essence

way off in the mountains, there's maybe a small
nest. Nothing that's immediately dangerous.

LAURA: What about if I sit for one more minute and
I think if I can sense any giants.

MATT: You do, to the far, far north. You get the
sense that there is some sort of giant-based

lifeform maybe two, three miles north of you.

LAURA: Okay.

TRAVIS: How's it look?

LAURA: Well, I mean, clear of the things I checked
for. No giants.

TRAVIS: Sweet! Let's go! Up to the cave!

MATT: All right. So the fortress or the caves
behind it?

TRAVIS: Fortress or cave?

LAURA: Were they both empty? I don't remember.

TALIESIN: Everything was empty, if I recall.

TRAVIS: Yeah. Small space.

TALIESIN: Let's do the caves.

LAURA: All right, sure. Cave.

TRAVIS: Yeah. Cave.

MATT: All right.

LAURA: Oh, if we stick to the woods, it's my
favored terrain. If we go into a cave, not as much.

SAM: The caves would contain it. It can't fly away
or anything.

TRAVIS: So is it like, cave-fortress, are they
same level? I can't remember.

MATT: It's a pathway that leads up into a small
ravine in the mountain pass where you guys

originally walked down into Whitestone. Up against
the north side of where the mountain meets that

ravine, there's a big stone fortress that is built
into the side of the mountain, and then around

that are a series of smaller caves.

LIAM: (singing) Anything can happen in the woods.

TRAVIS: Yeah, let's go to this fortress, then we
got more room to move in case it does suck.

SAM: All right, fine, fortress.

MATT: You guys find your way inside, the cold
morning air still has encompassed the stone floor

itself, you can see there are still the scattered
and slowly decomposing bits of meat and flesh in

the far corner, you still see the splatters of blood
that have turned black and cracked as it dried. No

corpses here, as the corpses were retooled by the
Briarwoods while they were in control. The

fortress other than that is still empty, and
seemingly untouched since you last left it.

SAM: All right, well, I'm just going to do it then!

LAURA and MARISHA: Wait wait wait!

MARISHA: Wait, there's doors open to the cave,
right?

SAM and TALIESIN: We're in a fortress.

MARISHA: Fortress. Whatever.

MATT: (laughs) Coffee's just starting to kick in
for you guys.

LAURA: Just barely! Do we have any buff spells or
some shit that we should cast, to make us cooler?

MARISHA: Should I throw a wall up?

SAM: A wall for what?

MARISHA: Do I need to bar the entrance? Or are
there doors?

TALIESIN: Vex, by the way--

MATT: There are doors, but they're partially ajar
where you left them.

LAURA: Aww, put it on, it's useful!

LIAM: No. We're not having this conversation.

TALIESIN: Vex, by the way, I've got something for
you.

LAURA: What? Yes, dear?

TALIESIN: And I pull out the arrow.

LAURA: What is this?

TALIESIN: This is an evening of unbridled guilt.
Come here, let me show you. In theory, this is a

siege arrow.

LAURA: Okay.

TALIESIN: Shattering stone, shattering doors,
breaking things that should not be broken.

LAURA: Breaking hearts left and right?

TALIESIN: If that is what you're after. It should
work! Never forget you're my favorite,

and I'm so sorry.

LAURA: I kiss him on the cheek. Thank you, Percy.

TALIESIN: That was much nicer than your brother.

LAURA: Is that a black eye?

TALIESIN: (stammering) I didn't sleep.

LAURA: Huh. This is lovely, I can't wait to use
it.

TALIESIN: There'll be more.

SAM: All right, in three, two--

TRAVIS: Wait hold on, hold on hold on!

TALIESIN: In a circle! Aim it into the center of
the circle.

LIAM: And is it three-two-one, three-two-one-do
it, or three-two-one and go,

SAM: On the one. On one.

TALIESIN: It's Jenga, one one-thousand two
one-thousand three one-thousand four

one-thousand.

SAM: Should one of us leave the room in case it
comes out and paralyzes all of us? Just going to

throw that out there.

TRAVIS: Oh yeah, we should, what do you call it,
spread out?

LAURA: Yeah, definitely, let's all surround it and
make sure we're not all clumped up.

TALIESIN: If only someone had armor that could
make them immune to paralysis.

LIAM: That's not a bad idea, you get controlled by
things. Maybe you could wait just

a little bit further back?

LAURA: This was somebody's pet, all right? It's
probably not smart enough

to take control of our minds.

LIAM: That's a big if.

TRAVIS: I don't mind stepping out, but I would
like to be able to see.

LAURA: Yeah yeah yeah!

LIAM: Yeah! We won't shut the door, I just want
you outside of any potential blast radius.

TALIESIN: Let's spread out in a circle; we'll let
it loose in the center, that way it can't even see

all of us.

LAURA: All right, I like it. It only gets to see
Scanlan.

SAM: It can see me.

LAURA: I'm going to stealth.

SAM: Well, when a thing is born, it latches on to
the first thing it sees, like its mama.

LIAM: Yes, we're going to hide.

MATT: All right, stealth check from both of you
guys?

MARISHA: So we're going to try and talk to it?

LAURA: Yeah, Scanlan's going to talk to it.

MARISHA: Scanlan? You prepared?

LAURA: Natural 20!

TALIESIN: You just teleport, there's like a phase
effect.

MATT: The two of you back off and find the nearby
shaded corners, where some of the haphazardly

tossed hides and furs are in the corner, you
vanish behind the alcoves keeping a watch.

LAURA: Trinket, don't stand next to me, it gives
it away. Go stand next to Keyleth!

TRAVIS: Is there a doorway in the fortress?

MATT: Yeah, there's the main doorway you guys
entered, which is two--

TRAVIS: Can I stand in that, then?

MATT: Sure, you stand there, in the entranceway
that's pushed open, which is wide enough for a

giant to push through. You got a little bit of room to
each side, but you're there.

TRAVIS: Vax, is this g-- Vax?

TALIESIN: It's fine, you're fine.

SAM: Here we go, guys.

MARISHA: So, those two are stealthed-- I'm at
Scanlan's left shoulder, back a bit.

LAURA: And Trinket's next to you!

MARISHA: And Trinket's next to me. I'm rolling
with Trinket.

TALIESIN: I've got a little bit of distance, yes,
that's good.

MATT: All righty, and there's Percy here, and
Travis is off this way. Good to know.

SAM: I don't know how to use this thing.

MARISHA: Yeah, we don't know how to use it.

SAM: By the power of Raven's Slumber, I command
thee: (yells) awaken! Beast! Cruel or otherwise!

Face your new master, and know his name is
Scanlan!

(laughter)

TRAVIS: (laughing) Oh, holy shit! Never could've
been better.

MATT: As you spend your bonus action to release
the gate hold on the crystal, you guys see as he

thrusts his hands forward, there's a burst of
shadow energy that, almost like someone throwing a

big pot of water, this blackness goes out of it,
and then as it hits the ground, it spills into

smoke on the ground, and as that dark form stops,
it is in the form of an about

waist-to-lower-torso-height creature. As the form
coalesces into its normal self, you can see before

you, shaking its head, a rather large, dark grey
and black wolf. (growls, snarls)

SAM: Easy, easy.

TRAVIS: Told you it was a dog.

SAM: Garlic? Galdric, Galdric, easy, Galdric.
Easy. We're friends. Here.

MATT: He's backing up a little bit, snarling. You
see Trinket starts growling, (growls).

LAURA: Trinket, be nice-- oh!

MATT: As you say that (snarls) it looks over at
you in the far corner.

LAURA: (whispers) I'm natural 20! That still
didn't see me!

MARISHA: I pet Trinket, like, 'Chill, chill, be
cool'.

MATT: Trinket backs up a little bit, but still
locking eyes. You can see this wolf now, its gums

and teeth are bared, its fur is all puffed up, its
tail is-- it's definitely holding its ground and

trying to make itself look as intimidating as
possible.

SAM: Is it a small beast?

MATT: This would be, technically, borderline
medium. This'd be medium, technically.

SAM: I can only speak with small beasts.

MARISHA: Wait, use Speak with Animals?

LIAM: (laughs) She swatted me and said, 'Put your
armor on,' so I'm doing it.

MATT: Okay. That'll take you about 15 minutes.

LAURA: Aw.

LIAM: 15 minutes! Well, guess I'm doing it.

MATT: All right. You don't just slip on leather
armor. (chuckles)

LIAM: No, I get that, I get that, I would've
guessed two minutes.

TRAVIS: Can somebody check to see if it's actually
a wolf or just looks like one? Like, check it?

LAURA: Can I use my perception?

MATT: You're a bit far away from it right now. You
can try to get closer if you want.

LAURA: Can I sneak?

MATT: Yeah, make another stealth check.

LAURA: I do get advantage, because of my cloak.
Sweet.

LIAM: You should yell out, 'I'm stealthing'.

LAURA: I'm stealthing! Damn it. 19?

MATT: Okay. As you begin making your way forward,
it doesn't seem to notice you.

LAURA: Hey, it doesn't?

MATT: No.

LAURA: Can I see it better now to perceive it?

MATT: Looking right at it, and from your
experience in the wild as well, and Keyleth,

you're getting it, this does not appear to
be anything beyond a large wolf.

TALIESIN: I'm going to get on my knees and put out
my hand and call it.

Galdric, Galdric.

MATT: Go ahead and make an animal handling check.

SAM: Animal handling! We've never done that
before!

LAURA: If I help my brother get on the armor, will
it happen faster?

MATT: Probably.

LAURA: I help him put on the armor.

MATT: Okay.

LIAM: (whispering) Ow ow ow! That's too tight!

LAURA: Well, you're not the same size as the other
guy!

TALIESIN: Yeah, it's a little bit better. Ten.

MATT: Ten. As you put out your hand, Galdric
snarls, and as you say, "Here, boy."

(growls and snaps) It lashes out at your hand.

That is going to be-- That's a 21 to hit?

TALIESIN: I'll take it.

TRAVIS: Keyleth, can't you talk to, like, plants
and shit?

MATT: You take six points of piercing damage as
its jaws clench down on your hand, and you tear

your hand away. You can feel the warmth flowing
under the glove.

TALIESIN: Gently, I'm gentle with it.

MARISHA: I cast Speak with Animals.

LIAM: I click my Boots of Haste!

MATT: You do?

SAM: Aren't you getting dressed?

LAURA: He can dress faster!

TRAVIS: Speed change.

MATT: All right.

TRAVIS: Quick change.

SAM: Seven-and-a-half minutes!

(laughter)

MATT: You guys all become immediately aware of the
creaking of leather in the distance as the two

siblings are in the process of fast-changing one
of the other.

LAURA: The rustle of feathers.

MARISHA: Okay, I cast Speak with Animals. And I
crouch down to the ground. And bow down a little

bit, and I say: are you the one they call
Galdric?

MATT: Looks over at you for a second. The growl
stops, and its posture changes a little bit. It

raises its nose. (sniffs)

MARISHA: Was Purvan your master?

MATT: Looking at you as you guys hear Keyleth
making this series of growling sounds.

LAURA: Trinket totally understands you, no?

MATT: Strangely enough, Trinket does, Trinket's
like, (confused bear noise).

TALIESIN: Trinket is Scooby-Doo, apparently.

TRAVIS: Shitballs! Taint! You going that way?

MARISHA: Oh my god, I get a secret!

SAM: There are several items that are sold out at
the store! If you'd like to go on and see what

items have already sold out, check it out.
(laughs)

LAURA: We need to get more t-shirts in stock.

SAM: Yeah, we know that. We know that, guys. We
know.

LAURA: That needs to happen. But there is still
the Critical Role logo t-shirt available. What is

happening? What is he--

SAM: Is there a ring or something?

LAURA: Is the ring still available?

SAM: I don't know.

LAURA: If the ring is still available, check out
our ring!

MARISHA: I can respond back, right? Your master
died a great champion for the Raven Queen. He has

been paid a great honor, and now the Raven Queen
has chosen a new master.

LAURA: I push Vax forward.

MATT: You've gotten maybe part of the tunic on.

(laughter)

SAM: Is he Donald-Duck-ing it right now?

MATT: Practically. There are undergarments, but
not much. It's, like, bare legs and knees, part of

an arm. Yeah, he got thrust out of the changing
room about 20 seconds into it.

SAM: Nice.

LIAM: I still walk toward the wolf.

TALIESIN: Waddle.

LIAM: No no no, I did the top, I did the top,
c'mon!

MATT: The wolf turns his head a little bit
curiously.

MARISHA: I continue to speak to the wolf.

LIAM: And I kneel. And bow my head.

MARISHA: A great darkness has fallen upon our
lands. Upon Othanzia. We could use all of the

assistance that we can achieve. Would you be
willing to find a new purpose? Join Vax'ildan--

LIAM: Keyleth?

MARISHA: Yes?

LIAM: Tell him to come forward and look into my
eyes.

LAURA: (whispers) That's a bad idea for dogs.

LIAM: Tell him.

LAURA: (whispers) It's gonna bite your face off.

MARISHA: Galdric. Please. Approach your new master
and look into his eyes.

LAURA: Give him some chocolate, man!

MATT: The wolf looks towards you, looks towards
the loosely half-dressed half-elf.

MARISHA: Look into his eyes. I said look into his
eyes. And see the touch of the Raven Queen inside

of him.

MATT: Wolf slowly stalks towards you across the
stone floor. You can hear the claws of the wolf

clattering against the stonework. As you can see
it's partially, like, digging into the stonework

with each step. It has purpose with each stride.

LIAM: As it's coming, I'm taking daggers out and
throwing 'em on the ground.

MATT: The wolf stops and looks up at you. Turns
around and walks towards the doorway where you are.

SAM: Where who is?

MATT: Where Grog is. Grog, who's now at the door,
at the exit.

LAURA: (whispers) What's his name?

TALIESIN and MARISHA: Galdric.

MARISHA: Galdric!

MATT: Keeps walking.

LAURA: Galdric!

SAM: Going to stop him, Grog?

TRAVIS: Well, I'm in the doorway.

MARISHA: Grog, don't move. Don't move. Look at the
dog. Don't move, and don't hurt the dog. Please

just look at the dog.

LAURA: I pull out one of my treats I have for
Trinket.

MATT: Okay. Trinket starts lumbering up towards
you (thudding).

LAURA: Wait, wait, Trinket-- This is for your
buddy Galdric. Galdric!

MATT: Just keeps walking, doesn't even look at you
in the face, walks--

LAURA: I throw the treat and say, hey!

MATT: It scatters across the stone. Walks between
your legs and exits out.

TRAVIS: I pivot on my back foot. I take out Craven
Edge--

TALIESIN: No!

TRAVIS: No, I do, I take out Craven Edge and I
sink it into the earth right beside his head. And

I say, (shouts) heel!

MATT: Make an animal handling check.

LAURA: Whoa, is it good, is it good?

TRAVIS: 20.

MATT: As the sword (crack) into the rock outside
of this fortress, it probably embeds itself a good

foot and a half into the mountain. You guys all
hear Grog's shout echo through the inside of the

fortress itself, causing little bits of dust and
small pebbles to dislodge from the roof, slowly

fall down. The wolf has stopped and spun in its
place and reached out and lashed the blade with

its jaws and (cling) as it releases it.

TRAVIS: Stay.

MATT: He sits.

TRAVIS: That went well!

(laughter)

SAM: Dog whisperer!

TRAVIS: Good pup.

SAM: Are you its master now?

TRAVIS: No, no, I don't think it has a master.
This is a very powerful beast. But it needs a firm

hand. And I think it needs a job. So. What do we
plan to do with Galdric? Said his name right?

SAM: Yeah.

LAURA: We plan on having him help us kill some
dragons?

TALIESIN: I think he's a wolf. I think perhaps
something a little less ambitious.

LAURA: Trinket hides very well when dragons are
around.

TALIESIN: I think, perhaps, joining the Whitestone
conclave might be a-- Having him

guard Whitestone, perhaps.

LAURA: Good, yeah! I like it!

TRAVIS: I reach into the Bag of Holding and I pull
out one thing of dry food rations, and a probably

pretty rotten chunk of dark elf brain.

LIAM: Where did we get that?

TRAVIS: Oh, there's a veritable Walmart of shit in
this bag.

(laughter)

TRAVIS: And I, like a hamburger patty, smash it
all together.

MATT: The only reason you even know this was at
one point dark elf brain matter is because that's

what you willed to reach in and find. It does not
at all visually match your memory of its--

TRAVIS: Does it have a little bit of a viscous-y
ooze, mostly?

MATT: Oh yeah, no, it's--

TRAVIS: It'll soften up the dry food.

LIAM: Gray Chicken McNuggets.

MATT: It'll soften up a lot of things. It's pretty
terrifying.

LAURA: It'll make the wolf vomit.

TRAVIS: So I throw that on the ground, and I pour
a little ale on top of it.

(laughter)

SAM: Wolves love getting drunk.

MATT: Very good. It leans forward and smells it.

TRAVIS: Yeah, no, it wasn't the best, I can do
better. Okay.

LAURA: Trinket goes up and starts eating it.

TRAVIS: He's going to barf that all over the
carpet later.

LIAM: Forget the chocolate.

TRAVIS: I need to carry beef in this bitch.

TALIESIN: It goes bad.

LIAM: We have Dork! We've got nothing of Dork
left?

LAURA: Oh, you know what I have, by the way? I
still have, like, a cooler Bag of Holding. That we

got from the Slayer's Take.

TRAVIS: Oh! That's really good to know.

TRAVIS: I pour into a little chalice some ale.

LAURA: Like, it keeps things cold. Yeah, it's like
a little bitty one, but it keeps parts from going bad.

MATT: It's nowhere near as large as a Bag of
Holding, but it has a slow stasis for organic goods.

SAM: We should keep some food on hand next time!

LAURA: Totally!

TRAVIS: I offer him some ale, just to see if he
even likes it. Some dogs like beer, some others don't.

MATT: Mm. Wolf doesn't seem to be interested.

TRAVIS: Yeah, all right. Then I chug it.

SAM: So are we telling this wolf something or
commanding it to come with us as we return to town?

TALIESIN: I think he would be helpful to guard the
town, at this point.

LAURA: Well, he'll follow Grog, I suppose.

SAM: Let's go back to town and bring him with us.

TRAVIS: All right.

MATT: You guys return to Whitestone. It's another,
like, three-hour trek to find your way back down

to the city. Stalks up next to you. Definitely
seems to be attentive to your commands. Doesn't

appear to be a bond per se, but of everyone that
it's encountered so far, you're the only one that

really gathered its respect.

LAURA: I threw a treat at it. I don't understand.

TRAVIS: That's a great thing to throw at a giant
400-pound bull mastiff.

MARISHA: I spoke words at it. Apparently that's
not good enough. Communicating.

TRAVIS: Right, so we're walking back to town.
We've got a giant fuck-off wolf with us.

Vax looks like Edward Scissorhands.

LIAM: I'm peeling that off as we walk.

LAURA and TRAVIS: What?

TRAVIS: No!

LAURA: Leave it the fuck on!

LIAM: I'm peeling it off.

LAURA: It's really expensive. What, do you want to
damage it?

LIAM: I'm peeling it off.

LAURA: (quietly) Fuck, he doesn't appreciate
presents.

MATT: All right, so you take what little bit of
the armor you had on, off, and are you putting

your other armor back on?

LAURA: He doesn't have any other armor. I took his
armor.

LIAM: I have regular fucking armor that I grew up
in with you, you fucking shit.

SAM: Do you want to trade with me, Vax? I've got
some armor you could take.

TRAVIS: Yeah.

LIAM: You're a funny man.

MATT: All right, so you're back in town and you
have a wolf.

TRAVIS: Do we find a holding pen for the wolf?

TALIESIN: I don't think we need to. I think we can
communicate to him--

LAURA: No. Tell him not to attack villagers.

TALIESIN: Ask him if he'll be willing to keep the
town safe.

LAURA: Do it in a really aggressive way, though,
Keyleth. Stern.

MARISHA: Very aggressive? Okay. Okay.

SAM: We should find some food for the thing, too.

MARISHA: If I turned into a dog. If I turned into
a wolf, do you think he'd respect me more?

LAURA: No, he'll probably attack you.

TRAVIS: He'll mount you.

LAURA: Or he'll bone you.

TALIESIN: I'm not ready for that game.

SAM: Do it.

TRAVIS: Let's be clear.

(laughter)

LAURA: Matt's like, "mm-mm."

LIAM: Oh, you soured the DM.

(laughter)

TALIESIN: To be fair, that's happened before.

LAURA: Yeah, I remember.

TALIESIN: With the troll.

TRAVIS: With the troll. It was so good. That was
you, wasn't it?

TALIESIN: No, it wasn't me. Was it you?

SAM: I don't know.

TRAVIS: Who was getting humped on?

TALIESIN: I don't remember.

SAM: Finalize this wolf so we can go kill
something.

MARISHA: I take my staff and I say, Galdric! I'm
being assertive.

LIAM: Yes.

SAM: She's the alpha.

LAURA: (whispering) Grog, go stand behind her.

MARISHA: You want a task? I'll give you one.

MATT: All right. How long does Speak With--

MARISHA: I don't know.

MATT: It lasts for ten minutes, so you can cast it
again. It's first level.

MARISHA: Oh, has it not been ten minutes?

MATT: It has been more than ten minutes. It took
you three hours to return.

MARISHA: Okay, we walked back? Okay, I'll cast it
again.

MATT: All righty.

MARISHA: Can I cast Speak With Animals on other
people? I can't, right? No.

MATT: All right, so as you shout, go ahead and
make an animal handling check, with advantage

because of your ability to speak.

MARISHA: With advantage?

MATT: Yes.

MARISHA: I'll take the-- what is that, 16? Plus a
six, so 22.

MATT: Okay. Galdric turns to you and essentially
leans towards you and you get the essence, the

idea of a message across, and to keep me from
having to walk behind now, at this point, as you

guys have managed to make seeming amends at the
moment, employs the idea of,

"I'll listen if you give me a task."

MARISHA: He talked back.

LAURA: Have him guard the village.

MARISHA: Okay. (louder) Galdric. Only a beast of
your great fortitude--

LAURA: Just fucking tell him to do it!

MARISHA: Right, okay. Sorry. Would you like to
guard--

SAM: It's a command.

MARISHA: -- the town, Whitestone? (shouting) Guard
this town, dog.

TRAVIS: Keyleth, repeat after me.

MARISHA: Yes.

TRAVIS: In exchange for food, protect these
lands.

MARISHA: Galdric. In exchange for food, shelter,
and a cozy fire every once in awhile--

TRAVIS: I didn't say that shit. I didn't say that.
He's a wolf. He doesn't need those.

MARISHA: Patrol these lands.

LAURA: Protect these lands.

MARISHA: Protect these lands.

TRAVIS: (quietly) Holy shit.

MATT: "For how long?"

LAURA: (laughs) He already asked that.

MARISHA: Why does he want details? Why does the
dog want--

LAURA: As long as we need you to.

TRAVIS: No, no. A great danger approaches.

TALIESIN: Until the danger has passed.

TRAVIS: You'll know it when it comes.

MARISHA: (clears throat) A great danger--

LAURA: Approaches!

MARISHA: Approaches! A great danger approaches.
Your service is required until that danger--

TALIESIN: Has passed.

MARISHA: Has passed! Is no longer in effect.
You'll know. You'll know, because they're fucking

dragons, man. You'll know. Protect--

TRAVIS: I walk over and put my hand over Keyleth's
mouth. You stay. We feed you. Is there a tavern or

a butcher shop or something nearby?

MATT: There is a butcher. As you're having this
thought, however, Galdric turns back over to you

and says, "I can feed myself."

LAURA: Yeah, you can.

MATT: "But I will watch until this danger has
passed."

LAURA: Awesome.

MATT: "Then am I free to go?"

MARISHA: Then you are free to go.

MATT: "Very well. I grow tired of service. I wait
too long." And the wolf looks at you, gives you

like an acknowledgement, and then walks off into
the woods.

LAURA: Bye, buddy!

MARISHA: Thanks, Galdric. Appreciate it, man.

LAURA: Man, that's a cool-looking wolf.

MARISHA: I look at Grog. How was that? Did that
sound okay?

TRAVIS: That was the dumbest thing I've ever
heard.

(laughter)

TALIESIN: You did good, you did good.

SAM: I thought she did very well.

MARISHA: Thank you. It really liked you. You
should learn how to talk to animals.

LAURA: What is that? What is that you have? What
is that?

TALIESIN: I'm holding onto the Raven's Slumber
jewel at the moment.

SAM: The thing that can capture evil.

TALIESIN: It's empty now, and do you know what I
bet would fit in it very nicely?

TRAVIS: Me.

LAURA: And we can carry him around and then pop
him out. Wait, okay, wait. Is it going to hurt

him? Does it hurt him? Is it like, it's bad?

SAM: Not only does it not hurt him, he does not
age or feel any pain.

TRAVIS: A willing creature need not make a saving
throw.

TALIESIN: It's automatic, and no time passes.

LAURA: Okay, I'm going to try it, and I'm going to
try it, and just to see how he likes it. If he's

okay with it.

MATT: Okay.

LAURA: Hey, buddy, come here.

MATT: As you turn around and look, you see there's
a small puddle on the ground where Trinket has

vomited up. He's pushing dirt over it.

TRAVIS: Yeah, you got to teach him to quit
rummaging, that is really foul.

LAURA: What was that? Trinket, what did you eat?
Don't eat the puke. Do not eat the puke.

Come here.

MATT: Trinket's like scraping dirt over it.

TRAVIS: Got a carrot on your chin.

LAURA: Trinket. Do you want to go for a ride? You
like rides? Yeah? You want to go for one? All

right, sit still. This'll be fun. I don't know how
to use it.

TALIESIN: Just point, yep.

LAURA: I point to him with the--

SAM: You should probably say something cool.

LAURA: By the power vested in me, I now pronounce
you my Pokemon.

(laughter)

MATT: Words be damned. It takes you an action or
so to activate the crystal, but as you do, Trinket

gives a confused look before Trinket's shadow
seems to crawl up his legs until it forms into

this circle, this dark core, roughly half the size of
Trinket's form, before it

shoots into the crystal.

LAURA: Is he about this size, but I don't like
that one, is he about this size?

MATT: A little larger than that before he goes
into the crystal, but once he's in the crystal,

it's small.

LAURA: Oh, it's a little crystal?

LIAM: Trinkachu, I choose you.

LAURA: (gasps) Oh my gosh. That's really fun.
Okay. How do I let him go?

MARISHA: I think you-- yeah.

LAURA: I release you.

MATT: Okay. As you do that, once again the same
dark energy you saw earlier spills out and hits

the ground in front of you, and from that dark
shadow area Trinket's form emerges, standing there

looking really confused.

LAURA: How was it? Did it hurt? Can you talk to
him? You can still talk to him. Talk to him. Ask

him if it hurt.

MATT: (vomiting noises) Vomits a little bit more
on the ground.

LAURA: Well, that's not good.

MARISHA: You know, sometimes the teleportation
makes you lose your lunch.

LAURA: Ask him how he's doing.

MARISHA: Trinket? You all right buddy? You all
right, there?

MATT: "Feeling sick."

LAURA: Ask him how the little car ride was, ask
him if he liked the ride.

MARISHA: How was the ride? Did you feel all right?
How was--?

MATT: "Yeah?"

LAURA: Okay, would you mind, ask him if he'd mind
doing that on occasion, you know, whenever

I need him to.

MARISHA: What was it like in there? Was it--?

MATT: "I don't remember."

MARISHA: Okay, that's good, that's good. Would you
mind--

LAURA: Ask him if he cares if I do it again, ask
him if he cares.

MARISHA: Would you mind doing that, you know,
frequently? On occasion.

MATT "If she wants me to, okay."

LAURA: What did he say, what did he say? He looked
really cute when he said something.

MARISHA: You have a lot of men who will do
anything for you.

LAURA: Oh, buddy! I go and hug him really tight
and scratch his ears.

MATT: You do, and avoid the little bit of--

LAURA: --vomit on, I don't even care! Oh my gosh,
thank you! This is the best, this is the best and

we can travel with him, we can climb with him, we
can sneak around.

SAM: Hey, and if Trinket isn't in it, you can also
use it to capture baddies.

LAURA: I know, it's great!

TALIESIN: And because of the way that the
projection works, you could also in theory capture

a baddie and then let them loose off a cliff and
watch them drop.

LAURA: Oh my god.

MARISHA: Oh my god, you're right.

TALIESIN: It's very convenient.

LAURA: Oh my gosh. Okay.

MATT: So. You have a crystal, you've set a wolf on
a path.

SAM: Where are we going next?

MATT: Where are you going now?

TALIESIN: Your home, I imagine.

LAURA: Don't we need to--oh, yeah.

SAM: What's our to-do list?

MARISHA: We don't have to worry about it. We can,
it's fine.

TALIESIN: Fire Ashari it is.

SAM: Wait, wait, wait. What are the things that we
need to do?

LAURA: We need to check in on Keyleth's family.

SAM: Cobalt Reserve, Ashari.

LAURA: Grog's family.

SAM: Did we already take care of Osysa's mate,
Frostweald?

LAURA: No, but that's down--

TALIESIN: That's far.

MARISHA: That's the other Vestige, correct?

LAURA: Yes, that's over by Grog's family.

MATT: That's information about the Vestiges.

SAM: We need to steal an airship.

TALIESIN: I agree, that's still very important.

TRAVIS: I can't remember where, what--

LAURA: They were by Kraghammer.

TRAVIS: Thank you. I'm having terrible hiccups.

SAM: What about, we need to find Kaylie at
some point. We also need to, who's gone, where's

Allu-- where's Ki-- where's people?

LAURA: Allura should be here in like a day. She
should be here very soon.

TRAVIS: What's close to here? (hiccups)

TALIESIN: Nothing's close, we're specifically far
away from everything.

MARISHA: But we can go wherever we want as long as
we've been there before.

TRAVIS: Well, we should definitely go to the Fire
Ashari.

TALIESIN: Fire Ashari is the next--

LAURA: We should go to the Fire Ashari.

MARISHA: Oh god, I'm immediately nauseous.

MATT: (bear noises)

LIAM: That's two of us.

MARISHA: Oh, Trinket, buddy. What time is it?

LAURA: (laughs) Do you need some water?

MATT: It's still, with the travel to and from,
it's middle afternoon, like one o'clock in the

afternoon.

TALIESIN: Take it.

SAM: If we're going to go, do we need anything
before we leave? We got everything we need?

Potions and stuff? Want to buy some meat for your
cooler?

LAURA: Yeah, let's get some meat.

MATT: It's pretty easy to go ahead and procure it,
five gold of meat will fill that thing.

LAURA: Yeah!

MATT: So go ahead and mark five gold off your
paper.

SAM: How much, could I buy a medical kit
somewhere?

MATT: Yeah, you could find a general store and
purchase a medical kit.

SAM: How much is that?

MATT: I'm going to look that up right now.

SAM: All right, whatever, I've got it.

TALIESIN: It's nifty that you have a book that
tells you how much something like that costs.

MATT: Imagine that. It's like it's a handbook of
some kind, it's crazy.

MARISHA: Does anyone have any fire-resistant
items?

LAURA: He does.

LIAM: I do.

LAURA: Put it on.

MARISHA: I might pick up some fire resistant
potions as well.

TRAVIS: I have this black iron plate that I
haven't used ever. 'While wearing this heavy plate

'armor, the bearer gains resistance to any fire
damage.'

MATT: Five gold for an herbalist's kit for you.

LAURA: Oh, plate armor, none of us can wear it but
Pike.

MATT: An herbalist's kit, like five gold.

SAM: Can that stabilize people?

MATT: If used with a medicine check, yeah.

LAURA: Okay, I have this, which I can't wear.

TALIESIN: What is that?

LAURA: It's a purple and black robe. It was Lady
Briarwood's robes.

TALIESIN: What does it do?

LAURA: Clings to nearby darkness as you walk.
While wearing this robe, you gain resistance to

piercing damage. Anybody need pierce resistance
that can wear robes?

TALIESIN: I'm pretty reasonable.

SAM: Do I wear robes?

MATT: Robes would be worn instead of your armor.

SAM: No thanks.

LAURA: What about Gloves of Missile Snaring? That
appeal to anyone?

SAM: Missile snaring? What does that do?

LAURA: These gloves seem to almost meld into your
hands when you don them, and when a ranged weapon

attack hits you, you can use your reaction to
reduce the damage by 1d10 plus your dexterity

modifier provided that you have a free hand. If
you reduce the damage to zero, you can catch the

missile if it's small enough to hold in that
hand.

TALIESIN: Does it require attuning?

MARISHA: They're pretty sleek.

LAURA: It requires two, no it just requires one
free hand.

TALIESIN: Yes, but does it require attuning?

LAURA: Yes it does, it requires attuning.

TALIESIN: I might be attuned out at this point.

LAURA: Anybody? I feel like that could be cool for
you, Scanlan.

SAM: I think I can take it?

TALIESIN: What's your dex? Your dexterity is not
very-- actually, it might work out well for me,

weirdly enough.

MARISHA: Are you fully attuned?

TALIESIN: I can undo something that I'm not
using.

MARISHA: Percy, you have access here in Whitestone
to alchemy supplies, correct?

TALIESIN: Matt, I have access to alchemy supplies
here in Whitestone, correct?

MATT: (laughs) I mean, there are elements of your
initial workshop I guess, that a lot of supplies

have been cannibalized but a few things can be
pieced together. Plus there was a lot of

alchemical elements and tools that were utilized
in the subterranean tunnels as part of the

refinement process for the whitestone residuum,
the large vats of acid that were distilled by the

Briarwoods while they were here, and there are
other elements of their own tinkering in the

alchemical arts that remain scattered throughout
the castle. So yeah, you can definitely find

enough to tinker with if you want.

MARISHA: I mean, we could take the rest of the
evening and I can attempt to make some fire

resist potions.

SAM: Eh.

TRAVIS: All right, here's what I'm thinking,
right? I mean, if we go after my herd, we're in

for a fight. A big one. If we go to your Fire
Ashari, we're doing recon and hopefully learning

something, right?

MARISHA: Well, we're going to be in for a fight at
the Fire Ashari as well because there's a giant

sunder in the fire plane, and last time I checked
there were fire imps and elementals pouring

through there.

TRAVIS: Are those bad?

TALIESIN: Eh.

MARISHA: They're annoying

TALIESIN: As long as we're quick we can go about
it.

MARISHA: Well.

SAM: What's our mission?

TRAVIS: You really want to get the rest of the
testicles of--

MARISHA: I mean, we could theoretically see if there are
survivors and I can attempt to close the tear in

the plane. I don't know if I can do that. However,
I don't know anyone else particularly more

qualified to attempt it.

TRAVIS: Allura or that bearded dude.

MARISHA: We're talking about the Fire Ashari and
possibly what to do there.

LAURA: Oh.

MARISHA: We can go and look for survivors--

LAURA: And bring them here.

MARISHA: And someone should probably close the
tear in the fire plane.

LAURA: Should we wait for Allura then, before we
go?

TRAVIS: Well, if there are survivors, they might
not be that way for very long if we don't go.

LAURA: They've been there for a while already.

MARISHA: If there are survivors--

LAURA: Then they're surviving.

MARISHA: They've survived. I agree. It's not going
to be pretty.

TALIESIN: I know you don't want to go.

MARISHA: I really don't.

TALIESIN: But we need to go. I say we take the
rest of the day. You make your potions, we leave

first thing in the morning.

LAURA: Wait for Allura, hopefully she'll be here
by then.

TALIESIN: Maybe Allura will join us by tomorrow
morning. If not, we teleport over.

MATT: Okay, you guys are going to rest for the
evening?

TRAVIS: Wait, hold on, is there like a house of
entertainment in Whitestone? I know it's just

getting back on its feet but you know.

MATT: That would be a question more for Percival.

TRAVIS: Percy? I'm having a bit of a soul struggle
and I'm wondering if I might bend

your ear for a moment.

TALIESIN: Sure.

TRAVIS: Yeah, could I speak to you over here?

TALIESIN: Yes, of course.

TRAVIS: Right, so, like, I want to get my freak
on.

TALIESIN: I don't feel that way about you.

(laughter)

TRAVIS: Yeah, no, I, I'm sorry.

TALIESIN: I mean, you're very attractive.

TRAVIS: That was very unclear. So I know this
is like your home and stuff and you might not have

been aware of it, but they have these houses where
like....

TALIESIN: Oh, where you get your freak on!

TRAVIS: Yes.

TALIESIN: Yes. Yes, we have them.

TRAVIS: Oh good, do you think they're still in
order?

TALIESIN: Oh, I imagine so.

TRAVIS: Could you point me in that direction?

TALIESIN: No, I have no idea where they are. I do
know that they exist. I actually had things to do

here. I didn't have time for these.

TRAVIS: Oh yeah, me too, important things. I was
thinking for Scanlan in case he gets bored, you

know, you've got to keep him focused.

TALIESIN: I wouldn't actually know where any of
these places were, would I?

MATT: No, and those that did exist in this town
have not been...

TALIESIN: I figured as much. I'm just fucking with
him. Okay. No.

TRAVIS: Oh, okay, well, I'll let Scanlan know.
Just keep it between you and me 'cause he's very

sensitive about these things.

TALIESIN: Your secret is safe with my
indifference. That's fine.

TRAVIS: Well, my, my, indifference

TALIESIN: I know you do.

TRAVIS: Yep.

TALIESIN: You're wonderful.

MARISHA: Can I start telling that to people in
real life?

TALIESIN: Yes you can. I do it all the time.

MARISHA: Yes. Your secret is safe with my
indifference.

TRAVIS: Okay. I'm going to rest.

SAM: Before we set off on this, is there anything
closer or more pressing? I don't actually know why

we're going to her place, but I'm fine with it.

MARISHA: To look for survivors and close the giant
tear in the fire plane that evil, well not evil,

fiery entities are pouring through.

TALIESIN: It's a hellmouth, it's basically a
hellmouth.

TRAVIS: It's either that or we go goliath
hunting.

LAURA: That's next.

TALIESIN: But this is quick, this is something
that we can knock off the list.

SAM: All right, let's knock it off.

TRAVIS: Yeah, right, let's just check it off.

LIAM: As we're walking through town, do I see any
weaponsmiths?

MATT: Make an investigation check.

LIAM: Okay.

TALIESIN: I'll help you make the potions.

LIAM: 21.

MATT: Okay, that'll help cut down on the time. 21?
There are two functional smiths left in the town.

There were two more than that overall, that were
more like blacksmithy, but they both unfortunately

lost their lives in the insurrection. But there
are two functional blacksmiths in this, yeah.

LIAM: And one's nearby, to pass through?

MATT: About a ten-minute diversion.

LIAM: I'm splitting off from the group.

MATT: Okay.

SAM: We've got to get out of here.

LIAM: One's in front of me now?

MATT: Well, you find your way to-- it's a small
blacksmith, and most of it's outside. Though the

day is growing late, you do see an older
gentleman, long, tattered grey hair pulled into a

very tight bun in the back and a beard that is
actually tied off to the side. Otherwise it would

be hanging down into his work. He's wearing
soot-covered clothes, big leather apron, leather

gloves, and he's currently in the process of (ping
ping) turning over and hammering out a piece of

orange glowing steel.

LIAM: Excuse me, sorry to interrupt, I have a very
simple request.

MATT: He doesn't stop. He seems to, he
acknowledges your presence but he's still working

as he's listening. (smithing sounds)

LIAM: I have six gold burning a hole in my pocket.
I'm not looking for anything simple. Do you have a

short sword? A regular old shortsword.

MATT: (ting) He looks over at you. "If that's what
you're looking for, on that wall over there we've

"got two shortswords." (ting)

LIAM: What's the difference between the two that I
can see?

MATT: (smithing sounds) That you can see? Make a
perception check.

LIAM: 22.

MATT: Looking over them both, from this distance,
they're both made with different hilt designs and

different pommel designs, the grips are a little
different but other than that the blades are

pretty much identical.

LIAM: I grab one off the wall. I slap down six
gold, which I know is way too much and say, thank

you sir. Pelor lives here. And I walk away.

MATT: Okay, as you start walking away he goes,
"Hey."

LIAM: Yeah?

MATT: "You're going to pay proper for that
shortsword."

LIAM: Oh, I'm sorry. How much does it cost?

MATT: "12 gold pieces."

LIAM: My apologies. 12?

MATT: "12 gold pieces, friend."

LIAM: So I put down six. I put down another 14. I
really apologize. I was just confused.

MATT: "It's all right. No harm no foul." Takes the
gold and scoops it and puts it into his pouch.

"Have a good day."

LIAM: I walk down the street going like-- it's
big.

MATT: It's much bigger than you're used to, but
it's got a fine balance to it and it's well-made.

All right, so as you guys have all--

LAURA: I've got an opal dagger you could have
used.

LIAM: I don't need your dagger.

TALIESIN: We're going to make our potions?

MATT: Yes, yes. All right, so.

MARISHA: I have another question.

MATT: What is your other question?

MARISHA: Before we all go to bed tonight can we
get like a fuckton of the green stone under

Whitestone?

TALIESIN: There's really not a lot of it.

MARISHA: Say like $1,000 worth and maybe have like
a real nice Heroes' Feast before tomorrow?

LIAM: Wise as fuck.

LAURA: Or in the morning.

LIAM: Heroes' Breakfast.

MARISHA: I've got to do it at night, because I
have to Tree Stride in the morning.

MATT: You can choose either to create the potion
or to mine the residuum for the evening. You

cannot do both. Both are time, like, to pull that
material from the-- because most of it that

remains has been already embedded within the
ziggurat beneath. You would actually have to

physically chip it from the structure.

LAURA: I have a plan, Keyleth.

MARISHA: Yes?

LAURA: We will cover the 1,000 gold from our own
party funds and have someone here mine some shit

for us and give it to us later.

MARISHA: I like that plan, yeah. Sounds good to
me.

SAM: How about the wolf?

TALIESIN: So potions.

LAURA: Percival, do you have people here who can
mine? Looking for work, people--?

MARISHA: Yeah, sure, why not?

TALIESIN: I'll let them know that they should
start trying to pull the residuum out of the wall,

but it's dangerous down there.

LAURA: Yeah, it is.

TALIESIN: And tampering with it is definitely...

TRAVIS: Necessary.

TALIESIN: Should be ginger. It would, I'm trying
to keep everything ginger down there.

LAURA: So maybe we should take 1,000 gold just from
your family stores then, huh? That might be

smarter.

TALIESIN: We currently have 1,000 gold from my
family stores that are in the group treasury at

the moment.

LAURA: Oh, we do. No, that's 500. That was just
500. Just so you know.

TALIESIN: I feel like it was more than that.

LAURA: No, it was just 500.

LIAM: Hey, de Rolo, do you remember what happened
yesterday?

TALIESIN: He's not there.

LAURA: Isn't he, though?

TALIESIN: I was going to do such a nice
thing for you, but never mind now.

LAURA: (laughs) No, no, no, do something really
nice for me.

LIAM: Where did I go? Oh, I went to buy a
shortsword.

TALIESIN: No, never mind. You went to buy a
shortsword.

LAURA: Dear, dear, dear, I'm sorry. I'm sorry, I'm
sorry. Do nice things. All right?

TALIESIN: I'm trying to be gentle with my family
right now. They're taking on an awful lot.

LAURA: You're right. They're taking on so many
people.

TALIESIN: And we'll see what we can do.

LIAM: I'd like to think you hear me in your mind.

TALIESIN: Always fucking hear you in my mind.

LAURA: Let's just use the damned party funds for
the time being. It's fine, Keyleth. This is a really

important feast.

TALIESIN: We're busy making potions.

LAURA: All right.

MATT: So you prepare a Heroes' Feast before you
begin this potion-creation process? Is that what I

understand or not?

LAURA: What?

MARISHA: Can I make some potions and then, like, I
make dinner for us before we go to bed?

MATT: It's going to take you about the length of a
day to create the potion, with his help it takes

it to about half, so it'll be about 12 hours of
creating. Eight to 12 hours. So.

TRAVIS: Pick one.

TALIESIN: Pick one.

MARISHA: I'll do a damn feast.

TALIESIN: No potion?

MATT: You can do the potion as well. The feast
only takes a moment to cast.

MARISHA: All right, okay. Yeah.

MATT: I'm just saying, be aware that you guys will
probably have, if you want to get a full rest

after that potion creation process, you're going
to have to wait until like this time tomorrow,

like late in the day to make your journey. Which
is fine, if you're willing to be patient about it.

TRAVIS: Sure.

MATT: Yes, no?

TRAVIS: Say one, just say one.

MARISHA: Yeah, let's do it, let's do it. Let's go
in prepared and then we can always rest on that side.

MATT: Cool. For a fine, fine dinner.

LAURA: Just want to make sure we feast right
before we leave so that it's most useful.

MATT: All right, so. You, everyone else goes to
sleep while you and Percy work tirelessly through

the night. If I could have you--

LIAM: Fuck!

MATT: (laughs) Just for the sake of it, I want you
to go ahead and make an arcana check.

MARISHA: Aw, an arcana? Do I get advantage because
of my little skill in alchemy? I'm skilled in

alchemy.

MATT: Yeah. Oh, that's right you are, never mind,
go ahead and do that.

MATT: Proficiency bonus, are you proficient in
alchemy?

MARISHA: Yeah.

MATT: So proficiency bonus, and for this, use
intellect modifier.

MARISHA: Okay. Intellect, which makes it plus
seven. Do I have advan-- ooh, I rolled a natural 19.

MATT: Okay. We'll say, for the fair cost of,
reduced due to the roll, 450 gold pieces, you

create a potion of resistance of your choice of
resistance.

MARISHA: Just one?

MATT: Just one.

MARISHA: Fire.

MATT: It takes a long time, man.

MARISHA: Fire!

MATT: Fire, all right. You create a potion of fire
resistance. The materials cost you 450 gold to

create, you finish it by about sunrise the next
day. Everyone else begins slowly waking up after

the night's rest as you guys both, bags under your
eyes.

LAURA: Oh, that was a good night's sleep, I tell
you what.

TRAVIS: Seriously.

SAM: Keyleth, could you--

MARISHA: What? Oh, god, you snuck up on me.

SAM: Could you make me some tea real quick?

MARISHA: Scanlan.

SAM: What?

MARISHA: Go fuck yourself.

SAM: What, you were up before me, I thought--

TALIESIN: All right. All right, this is fine.

MARISHA: This is fine.

TALIESIN: This is good.

MARISHA: This is great.

MATT: You're doing a Heroes' Feast for breakfast,
then? Is that how it's working?

MARISHA: I'll take a nap. I'll cook breakfast,
guys, good morning. Good morning!

LAURA: Oh hey, good morning, Keyleth!

SAM: Why don't you sleep during the day, we'll all
take our feast, and then blast off at night time?

MARISHA: Because I have to teleport and cooking
this feast are both 6th-level spells and I can

only do one of those a day.

TRAVIS: Man, it's hard being a druid.

LAURA: Can anybody else make a feast? That's
here?

MARISHA: Pike. Pike. Pike?

SAM: She's with Gilmore.

TRAVIS: She's not here.

LAURA: (sighs) I miss Pike.

LIAM: We all miss Pike.

MARISHA: I'll cook breakfast, guys.

LAURA: No, I'll cook breakfast. No, I won't cook
breakfast.

LIAM: That's a good idea, for you to not cook
breakfast.

MATT: What's the plan?

MARISHA: I'm cooking breakfast!

MATT: Are you cooking breakfast or are you
summoning breakfast? That's my question.

LAURA: Are you summoning breakfast and then you're
sleeping and then we're leaving?

MARISHA: I'm summoning-- yes, I'm summoning
breakfast and then I'm sleeping.

LAURA: And then you're sleeping and then we're
leaving as soon as you wake up.

MATT: Okay, that's what I was wondering. We got
the answer, okay, cool. Hoo, today's been a slog.

All right, so you go ahead and you use Heroes'
Feast, summoning forth a fantastical breakfast meal

filled with coffee and eggs and everything you
would hope for, the finest materials.

LAURA: Froot Loops!

MATT: (laughs) Sure, Froot Loops is on the menu,
why not?

TALIESIN: Lucky Charms.

MATT: No Lucky Charms, sorry, those aren't
available on Tal'Dorei. But yes, all you guys take

an hour to finish devouring this, you finish your
meal, all you guys get a 2d10 hit point maximum

increase to your hit points.

LAURA: Ooh, ooh, greens, greens!

MATT: And immune to poison, frightened, and all
wisdom saving throws have advantage.

TRAVIS: Damn!

SAM: Advantage on wisdom.

MATT: Yes, the usual.

TRAVIS: Almost broke.

MARISHA: And wisdom.

LAURA: And you're immune to fear, right?

MARISHA: Immune to fear, poison, and what else?

MATT: And you get advantage on wisdom saving
throws.

SAM: Okay.

MATT: After which, Percy and Keyleth pretty much
fall asleep at the table as it vanishes and they

both collapse to the ground, eggs out of the
corner of their mouth. Eventually they make

themselves back up to sleep and the rest of you
guys peter around for the remainder of the day

while they get their full rest. It now comes to,
at the end of that eight-hour period of time, I'd

say about three, four in the afternoon before they
finally wake up. You've restored your spells.

MARISHA: Yay!

MATT: And the rest of you are ready to go about
your business.

LAURA: Let's go, let's go, let's go.

LIAM: Wait! While they're sleeping, right--

MATT: Mm-hmm?

LIAM: I take Scanlan aside.

MATT: Okay.

SAM: Oi.

LIAM: Hey, buddy.

SAM: Hey, friendo.

LIAM: Yeah.

SAM: What's up?

LIAM: We don't talk a lot.

SAM: Well, we start to and then you leave the
room, usually.

(laughter)

LIAM: I don't handle personal emotional
confrontation very well.

SAM: It's okay. I walk away.

(laughter)

MARISHA: Oh, shit!

SAM: Then I come back, I feel bad.

TALIESIN: No, no, that was perfect.

LIAM: Where did you go?

SAM: Just kidding, just kidding.

LIAM: Pull up a chair, sit down, I want to ask you
something.

SAM: I'm already as low as I can go.

LIAM: You're right. How do you do it?

SAM: How do I do what?

LIAM: How do you do it? You're risking your life
as much as anyone in this group, you're almost

dying every day. You're fucking smiling all the
time. How do you do it? I'm kind of asking as Liam

to Sam as well, but mostly as Vax to Scanlan. How
do you do it? You almost died yesterday as well.

Or two days ago, fuck. Why do you do it?

SAM: Well, Vax. I don't know, I mean, I like you
people, okay? Everything before this was not as

good. This is better. That's why. It's very
simple. You had a shitty childhood, didn't you?

You and the sister?

LIAM: Yeah.

SAM: I think Grog had some troubles. We've all had
our share of shit before we all met. Now we're

together, we're a family, this is better. That's
how I smile. It's better than it was before.

That's it.

LIAM: We're probably going to die in the next
month.

SAM: Yes, but it's fun while it lasts.

LIAM: All right. Thought I might--

SAM: Glean some wisdom?

LIAM: Yeah, but I'm just as confused as before.

SAM: Listen, I'm older than you.

LIAM: How much older?

SAM: A bit. I've seen more than you have. And it's
all shitty, so it just depends on how you look at

it. You can dwell on the shit, or you can just
leave it behind in people's beds and keep going.

MARISHA: Oh god, that works on too many levels.

TALIESIN: Oh god, that's too deep.

MARISHA: Too deep.

LIAM: You did that. Water under the bridge.

SAM: I walk away.

LIAM: That little motherfucker shit in my bed.

MATT: All right. As you regather your will, path
chosen; Keyleth, do you wish to prepare the

transportation spell?

MARISHA: Yeah.

TALIESIN: Let's do this.

MATT: All right. All of you gather and find your
way down to the Sun Tree in the center of the

town. At this point, it's later afternoon, you've
been growing accustomed these past few days of

taking action right around dusk, and as the sky
turns from a blue to a bit of an orangish hue, you

all find yourselves ready to transition back over
to the continent of Issylra.

MARISHA: Let's go. To the Sun Tree.

MATT: Keyleth steps forward, touches her hand to
the Sun Tree, completes her mental incantation,

and you watch the trunk once again tear open into
the somewhat oval walkway into the tree itself. On

the opposite side, what's your destination?

MARISHA: Oh, god. As close as I can get to the
Fire Ashari, I guess.

MATT: Okay. You recall, passing through, there
were a number of trees towards the base of the

mountain that were starting to grow petrified from
the proximity to the ash that constantly falls

from the sky. They died a long time ago and are
slowly beginning to petrify. As the portal opens

up on the opposite side, you can see beyond that
the dark rock that formulates that mountain range.

At the same time, you can see a dull orange glow,
and you all begin to step through in rapid

succession, Trinket racing up after Vex. All of
you find yourself stepping out the other side, at

which point you look up and you can see the
pathway that you took towards the top of the

mountain where the Fire Ashari called Pyrah, where
they maintained their ever-vigilant watch on the

tear into the fire elemental plane. What you do
notice immediately is that the path that you took

initially is no longer a simple walkway. Against
the now very dark sky, this side of the realm

itself, night is, actually, no, sorry. At this
point, you've actually beaten the sun.

MARISHA: Oh, do we gain a few hours?

MATT: Yeah, you guys have gained a few hours,
technically.

MARISHA: Awesome.

MATT: So it's still light in the sky from other
parts in the distance, however, there is a

perpetual dark cloud of smoke and actual storm
cloud gathering across this mountain range. As you

recall the first time you were here, that's the
nature of Pyrah, it's always under this thick,

heavy, soot-and-ash-filled cloud cover. The
pathway that winds up the mountain, though, is

instead a glowing orange mass of slowly dribbling
molten rock that has filled that entire walkway,

and it has come to rest at the base of the
mountain where it has gathered and begun to cool.

You guys are hundreds of feet off from this point
as you step out of the tree. However, where you

see the molten rock has reached the base of the
mountain, you-- it's cooled and formed into solid

rock at its base, and you start seeing flashes of
the orange turning dark, then another section

turns dark from the opposite side. And then a few
moments pass and you can see the orange of the

next section, up in like ten-foot segments, it's
going dark and hardening on its own. You get the

sense that your arrival did not trigger this more
than it has been happening since

before you arrived.

MARISHA: Can I do a nature check to figure out
what's up?

MATT: Sure. Actually, this would be a perception
check to see if you can ascertain.

MARISHA: 16.

MATT: 16. It's difficult to make out at this
distance, but you can see, along portions of the

jagged mountainside, a collection of small figures
that are making their way up the mountain, and

their slow ascent is met with the lava flow
cooling in sections.

MARISHA: Do they look like people, like
humanoids?

MATT: It's hard to tell from this distance, they
look human-ish, humanoid-ish.

TALIESIN: I attempt to use the optics on my gun to
get a better look at them.

MATT: Sure, go ahead and make a perception check.

TALIESIN: 18.

MATT: 18. A little bit of a clearer look through,
they do appear to be humanoid. You do see two

arms, two legs. You can't gauge size comparison
from this distance.

SAM: How far?

MATT: At this point, they're probably a good 800
feet up the mountain.

MARISHA: 800 feet?

TALIESIN: Are they dressed like the Ashari that
I've met?

MATT: From what you can make out, their color
palette shifts, there are reds and browns, some

stand out as an aquamarine white. The Ashari you
saw were a pretty consistent color palette. This

is a little more varied.

TALIESIN: I don't know who these people are.

MARISHA: They could still be Ashari. Just in their
elemental forms. Are there any birds around? I

look up, do I see birds in the sky?

MATT: There are no birds in the sky.
Unfortunately, because of the nature of this area,

especially as the oppressive fumes and dust
continue to pour off from the top of the caldera

of this mountain range, it has made it not fitting
for any sort of aerial life that you're used to

seeing. You glance around for about a minute or
two and you don't see any sort of bird life in the air.

TRAVIS: Did the ground cool where they were
walking? Could we follow them up?

TALIESIN: We should.

MARISHA: Let's stay far behind. Let's go quietly.

LAURA: Let's walk. Stealth? I cast Pass Without a
Trace on all of us.

MATT: Okay. Everyone make a stealth check,
including Trinket.

TRAVIS: You don't want to put him in the thing?

SAM: You could.

LAURA: (gasps) Okay.

LIAM: Try it out.

LAURA: I put it on a string so I could put it
around my neck because it's a necklace because

it's cooler that way.

MATT: Well, it has a chain on it that it came
with.

LAURA: It's got a chain on it, so it's around my
neck.

MATT: All right, so you take it, you put--

SAM: It has a chain and a string now.

MATT: Chain and string.

MARISHA: The string's so you don't forget.

MATT: Exactly. You trigger the necklace, pointing
it in the direction of Trinket, and once again

Trinket is absorbed into the crystal, vanishing
within the inside. All right.

TRAVIS: 17.

MATT: 17.

SAM: Pass Without a Trace is--?

TRAVIS: Plus ten. I rolled shitty.

LAURA: 30.

LIAM: 35.

MARISHA: 32.

TALIESIN: 29.

SAM: 25.

MATT: Okay. You guys begin making your trek up.
How are you going up the mountain? Are you scaling

the cooled flow?

MARISHA and TRAVIS: Yeah.

MATT: That's probably the safest route given the
fact that most of the other side of the mountain

range itself is pretty jagged, and elements of it,
because of the formation of this giant volcanic

caldera, there are portions of broken stone and
obsidian glass that sticks out the side.

MARISHA: As we're walking up, I fall behind
and I slip Vax the potion of fire protection.

MATT: All right. You guys continue in pace with
this, eventually, and make

another perception check?

MARISHA: Much better, that's a natural 19. 30.

MATT: 30. Okay. Looking up, as this cluster of
individuals makes their way towards the very top

of the mountain, seemingly not taking sight of
your traveling group, you're beginning to see the

nature of each section of this flow cooling. And
what you're seeing is the group will move up a

bit, stop, and there appears to be a burst of--
sometimes it looks like very strong wind, sometimes

it looks like a very localized sleet storm that is
brought against the side of the mountain and is

actually forcefully cooling the flow down
temporarily, at least in those sections, before it

begins to spill over and continue its slow molten
descent, but they're doing their best to continue

to force it back up the mountain and--

LAURA and MARISHA: Those are druids.

MARISHA: I cast Skywrite in the clouds above us,
in the smoke.

MATT: Okay.

MARISHA: And I write--

LAURA: "So, how are you guys doing up there?"

TALIESIN: "Hi."

MARISHA: "Hi. Hey you guys." I write, in druidic
symbols, "Keyleth, Kaitiaki."

SAM: What's that? Is that her?

MATT: Okay. You notice the pace in which this
group has ascended comes to a halt at the very,

very top of the mountain range where it ends, and
there's a slight pause before the clouds shift a

second time and it says, from what you understand,
"Kaitiaki. Survivors remain, Keyleth."

MARISHA: And I respond with, "Help has arrived."

SAM: You guys are texting?

MARISHA: (laughs) Yeah.

MATT: Druid texting.

LAURA: What are you saying?

TALIESIN: Stop looking at your phone.

LAURA: What do they say?

SAM: Why don't we go over there and talk to them?

MARISHA: They're survivors.

TRAVIS: Well, let's go.

LAURA: Are they nice?

MARISHA: They're survivors. What does it matter?

TRAVIS: And we go.

MARISHA: Let's go. And I tell them, you know,
"Arriving. Stand down. Here we come."

TALIESIN: "Lol."

MARISHA: "Lol. Winky-face."

LIAM: As we travel, because I was too out of it to
respond and she's way ahead, I take the potion

that Keyleth gave to me, because she didn't have
to, I've got the David Bowie armor on now.

MATT: You did don it. Okay.

LIAM: Yes, yeah. Before going to bed.

MARISHA: Oh you did, okay.

LIAM: And I press it into Vex's hand.

MATT: Okay.

LAURA: Hey, I took your, all right, I'm going to
take it.

MATT: What was your choice of resistance? I assume
it was fire. Okay. All right. As you guys progress

up, and it is, though it is a safe route, it is
still a relatively steep incline and you're all

having to work together to find handholds, and it
is very arduous physically getting up there. I

would like everyone to go ahead and make a constitution
saving throw.

SAM: Oh, shit.

LAURA: A constitution?

MATT: Yes.

LAURA: Oh, do we get advantage because of the
feast?

TRAVIS: No, that's only wisdom.

LAURA: Shit.

LIAM: Come on, Colville meteorite die.

TRAVIS: 17.

LIAM: I'm so weak.

LAURA: Come on, jade.

LIAM: Natural 20!

LAURA: You motherfucker!

LIAM: Thank you, Matthew Colville.

LAURA: I'm rolling my giant jade dice, because
it's green.

TRAVIS: Way to announce it.

LAURA: Womp-womp. Oh, that's a six.

TRAVIS: (laughs) You're fucked.

MARISHA: 20.

TALIESIN: 13.

SAM: Five.

MATT: Okay. As you guys begin to get partially up
the mountain, the proximity of the heat from the--

because the exterior of the rock has cooled, but
it's still molten beneath and there are

parts of that are still cracking open, and bits of
the heat are still pouring through, plus the

general physical exertion from the not-very-hardy
physiques of both Vex and Scanlan, you both suffer

one level of exhaustion from the ascent up the
side of this mountain.

LAURA: Oh, Trinket's in his thing, he's not
worried at all.

TALIESIN: I don't actually know what one level of
exhaustion is.

MATT: You guys have disadvantage on ability
checks. All your skill checks right now, until

your next long rest, are at disadvantage.

TRAVIS: Levels of exhaustion suck.

SAM: Not saving.

MATT: However, as you guys are approaching towards
the top, you can see now the humanoids that were at

the top of this mountain crest have been since
keeping the flow at bay and each time it begins to

crest over again and continue its flow, it's
blasted again from the side and cools and it's

building this very, very slow gradual
outcropping--

MARISHA: I use my cantrip Gust and cool areas
alongside as we ascend.

MATT: Okay. You glance up and you now have a
better view of this group, and what you do see

ahead of you, specifically Keyleth, appears to be
a cluster of about eight or so Fire Ashari-dressed

individuals. You can't make out their physical
details yet. Along with five other entities that

are dressed in the colors and vestments of those
from Zephrah.

MARISHA: Oh shit!

TRAVIS: From who? From what?

LIAM: What's the matter?

LAURA: What's up? What's happening?

MARISHA: I run up.

MATT: Keyleth goes running up.

MARISHA: You said seven or eight from 
Zephrah?

MATT: There are five from Zephrah.

LAURA: Are we going to, we're going to follow?

LIAM: Yeah, I'm breaking out of stealth and
running.

TALIESIN: Ah. Yeah. No. We're running now.

LAURA: I walk. I'm pretty tired. You and me. Let's
just walk.

SAM: Yeah. You can carry me.

TALIESIN: Cardio. God.

MATT: Okay, it takes a while to get up there. As
you guys begin to approach, a little bit behind

Keyleth, and you look, you see the only two
notable Fire Ashari that you see there are

Nastoen, which is a human female that you saw was
one of the four that first greeted you as you

approached Pyrah when you got to the mountaintop.
She looks a little rough, but she's definitely in

one piece. The other one that greets you, and
immediately you recognize as Flamespeaker

Cerkonos, who currently does not have his right
arm. It is charred and is, through some semblance

of flame, cauterized to where he no longer has a
shoulder and part of his torso is a black mass of

burnt skin, probably intentionally, but as you
approach he puts his hand out and goes,

"Hail, Keyleth."

MARISHA: Hail, Cerkonos. And I run up and give him
a hug.

MATT: He pats you on the back and there's a
coldness to his look, his expression. You can see

in a brief instant, though there is strength and
determination, there is a moment as he looks into

your face that you can see the sorrow of losing
most of his people.

MARISHA: And I look back at him and I say: I'm so
sorry.

MATT: "This is not your fault. We had this coming.
We are the able-bodied few you see."

MARISHA: Are these all that have survived?

MATT: "We are 25 living. The rest reside at the
base of the mountain, to be watched, or are the

"watchers. But our attrition is of our own making.
We helped outsiders too long ago."

MARISHA: What? What do you mean, like, how long
ago? 12, 15 years?

MATT: "We helped seal a drake in this rift."

LAURA: Thordak.

MATT: "That is the name they call him. We helped
bring and bind the beast to this rift, sealing

"within it the heart of a primordial flame, one of
the few pure essence crystals of our plane. Such a

"binding will not allow it to leave. It is a
punishment for the most terrible of evils that the

"Ashari take under their order. We carved from the
crystal in bind. This beast was too strong and

"took the entire crystal, but it seemed enough. It
seemed enough."

MARISHA: Cerkonos, it's not your fault. There are
greater forces at work here, beyond us. That's

something that I am desperately trying to reassure
myself of every day.

MATT: And a voice comes up from over the mountain
range, raspy, older, and with a casual importance

to it, and it says, "So, are you claiming some
semblance of dealing with this?" And as it steps

over, the face looks down with recognition. "My
god. Keyleth."

MARISHA: Who are you?

MATT: You guys look up and you see long,
silver-haired half-elf in later years dressed in

the blue and white robes of the Air Ashari. You
see before you Korren, your father. "You live."

MARISHA: Dad!

MATT: He steps forward and goes in, as he steps
away from Cerkonos, takes you in his arms and

holds you extremely tight against him.

MARISHA: I'm sorry I didn't check in sooner. I
didn't want you to be disappointed.

MATT: "Shh." He puts his finger up to your lips,
holds you back and looks you over and with a smile

on his face, you can see the hardness of his
expression fade. "Keyleth, you've grown."

MARISHA: A lot's happened.

MATT: "You look just like her."

MARISHA: I haven't found Mom.

MATT: "Her path was her own. I'm just glad that
you have maintained yours." He wipes the tear from

your face and says, "How goes the Aramente?"

MARISHA: Well.

LAURA: She's kicking ass.

MATT: "Good. Good." And he places his thumb at the
corner of his eye. "We were called naught but a

"day ago by the surviving Pyrah. Told of the angry
mountain and the terrible drake that sundered the

"rift. I helmed the team while the majority of our
people stayed to keep Zephrah cloaked and safe

"from the marauding beast. We've only just made our
way up the mountain. Your arrival is quite

"fortuitous, as we need all the help we can get."

SAM: How can we be of assistance?

MATT: "Come. See what remains of Pyrah." He turns
around and walks back over towards the top of the

mountain.

MARISHA: Daddy.

MATT: He stops. Looks over his shoulder towards
you. "Yes?"

MARISHA: It's good to see you again, father.

MATT: "It's good to see you as well, daughter. Now
come. Show me what you've learned." Goes back to

walking. The rest of the Fire Ashari stand up,
acknowledge and recognize those of you that stand

here before, visiting once before. Cerkonos looks
about. "You show strength and honor by coming here

"in our time of need. This will not be forgotten.
Now come." As you follow them up over the top of

the mountain, you see once again before you the
caldera of this once-volcanic mountain has been

blown apart in areas. You can see sections of
large black stone that are now pushed up into

jagged obelisks where once was a relatively smooth
blackened shale countryside. You can see there are

pits of molten rock that have been punched through
the floor and have gathered into these pools where

the air above is slowly shifting and warped by the
heat that is now released above the mountaintop.

The flow of lava that descends down the side of
this mountain continues and swells and heads

inward towards the Cindergrove. The Cindergrove,
from what you can see from this distance, is but a

fraction of what was once there, most of the trees
now torn apart and scattered amongst the top of

this mountain. You can see bits and pieces of the
various petrified trees thrown hundreds of feet

from the center. There are still standing, defiant
trees amongst what once was the Cindergrove, but

they are very sparse, many of them now blackened
by what you can see in the very distance beyond

the broken huts and homes that once held the
Pyrah, you can see in the distance moving, glowing

dots of various elemental energies spiraling
outward from a very large central red rift that

sits there pulsing and pulsing with bright, almost
sunlight energy. It's like staring into the sun at

the very zenith of its movement. You have to avert
your eyes even staring towards this rift, now a

good 30, 40 feet taller than it was when you last
returned here. What was once the portal in the

ground has now ruptured and is emerging, slowly
piercing out of the top of this mountain.

Undaunted, your father and the other Ashari
continue walking forward with no words.

LAURA: I rush forward a little bit to talk to him.
Question. Your majesty? I want to help, we all

want to help as much as possible, but I don't know
any magic. Most of us don't. Are we going to be

able to do anything?

MATT: "Well, I certainly hope so. If you've
survived this long with my daughter, you've picked

"up a few tricks."

LAURA: Well, that I have.

MARISHA: Father, I wouldn't be here if it wasn't
for these people. They are the most capable

that I know.

MATT: "This is good. Because that's who we need
right now."

MARISHA: However, since we're druids, we're a
little bit more, you know. Geared. Prepared to

deal with the fire. I can cast Protection from
Energy on a couple of these people, if you

wouldn't mind maybe grabbing the other two?

MATT: "I will do what I can."

MARISHA: And I cast Protection from Fire on Percy,
you have it, you have it, do you have it?

TRAVIS: Well, I really don't even know what I'm
going to do here.

MARISHA: Well, it's going to protect you from
fire.

TRAVIS: Okay.

MARISHA: Scanlan?

SAM: Hit me, babe.

MARISHA: I'll do Percy and Scanlan. Father, can
you--?

MATT: It's a concentration spell, so you can only
really have one person going, and that's your

concentration.

MARISHA: Can only have one person going.

MATT: Yep.

TRAVIS: Well, good.

MARISHA: I could cast it at higher levels. Can I
cast it at higher levels?

TRAVIS: I'll take a mulligan on this one.

MARISHA: Can't do that with this one? Fuck.

LAURA: Do Scanlan. Do Scanlan.

SAM: No, I'm fine, don't worry about me.

MARISHA: Well, I'm going to cast it on myself, for
starters. Because I want it.

LAURA: All right.

MARISHA: So I'm going to cast Protection from Fire
on myself.

LAURA: What does a potion of fire resistance do?

LIAM: Halves.

LAURA: The same thing?

LAURA and MARISHA: Halves all fire damage?

LAURA: Okay.

MATT: All right. As the cluster of you begin
stepping deeper into the caldera, you begin to

approach the outskirts of the remnants of the
Pyrah tribe's homestead. You can see where most of

it has been either completely burnt to a cinder or
lies tattered by some great force, shattered. And

you start, as you're walking through, you can see
where the landscape itself, all the jagged bits of

black obsidian glass are shooting up out of the
ground and there's broken pieces of the dark rock

and volcanic material, and it isn't until your
eyes begin to focus that you realize that elements

of this rock is not rock at all but the twisted
and charred remains of the Pyrah that didn't

escape in time, blending in with the ground and
landscape surrounding. The rest of the Ashari

continue pushing forward, not taking notice,
focused, as before you, you can see the rift,

still blinking ever-bright, in the center of the
remains of the Cindergrove. You steel yourselves.

MARISHA: I turn and I look at them and nod and
follow in my people's footsteps.

MATT: And that's where we'll end tonight's
session.

TRAVIS and LAURA: Oh shit.

TRAVIS: Okay. We're cooking with gas now.

LAURA: As Marisha collapses in a pool of tears.

TALIESIN: Cry more, cry more!

MATT: You knew this was coming.

LAURA: Yeah, man. You're going to have a headache
tomorrow, dude.

MARISHA: I'm so tired. I'm tired.

LAURA: Aw, we've got exhaustion, Sam. That's
balls.

SAM: Yeah, that's not great.

LIAM: Thanks for tuning in to Therapy Thursday,
everyone.

TRAVIS: Where we take shits and talk to swords.

LAURA: There you go.

MATT: Got a little bit of column A, little bit of
column B, we got some drama, we got some personal

issues, we got some reunions, we got some
hardships, we got--

TALIESIN: Wild animals.

LAURA: Yeah, so many things!

MATT: And a travel method for Trinket.

LAURA: Oh my god, I'm so excited about it!

MATT: I wasn't sure how you guys were going to use
that one, as soon as you mentioned it I was like,

all right, that's what they're doing. That's a way
to do it. Yeah. Well cool, guys, we'll be back

next week Thursday with Chris Hardwick, who will be
joining us as a guest.

LAURA: Yay!

MARISHA: How is he going to be here?

TALIESIN: As himself. He's going to be playing
himself, it's going to be very exciting.

TRAVIS: Guys, I'm a human. Usually.

LIAM: I'm super busy, I'm super busy.

TALIESIN: Out of the rift suddenly comes Chris
Hardwick.

MARISHA: Super busy, but I'm super successful.

LIAM: I'll help save the world, but I got like 50
things on my schedule.

MATT: Yeah, so we'll be back then. I think April
21st is going to be our 50th episode. We're

going to be doing a fun little evening there.
We'll have Critmas coming up, probably end up

being that night, maybe another night that week, we'll
have details coming up soon, we're trying to

figure out the schedule on that. This'll be our
big 50th anniversary Critmas blowout, and then

we're going to scale it back to like an
annual-type event it looks like, both to save the

people who work this channel Thursday nights and
stay super later to get here, to save the length

of the episodes, and to help all of us who have to
then go to work sometimes very early

the next morning.

LIAM: We love you, but I need to sleep. It's as
simple as that. We love you, and we love Critmas,

but it's a health thing.

MATT: So what we'll be doing is this will be our
big blowout Critmas, we'll still do it probably

for the holidays, and we really implore you guys
to give to charities, send us stuff, we still read

them, we'll still do Periscopes, those
of us who get gifts, some of us will open them on

Periscope for you, so we'll still have the
interaction, we'll have to do it on our own time

and not at 11, midnight.

TRAVIS: 12, 12:30.

LIAM: 12:37.

TALIESIN: On a 7AM call.

MATT: So this'll be our big general blowout. So if
you're planning something for the next Critmas,

this'll be the one to get it in for. But yeah, you
can check out the guide to Critmas on Geek &

Sundry, it has a list of all our supported
charities if you want to give there. It's highly

recommended. Thank you guys so much for those who
donated to 826 tonight so we can go ahead and help

out the Seattle branch.

MARISHA: 826 Seattle! We love you.

MATT: And yeah. Do we have anything else?

ALL: Happy St. Patty's Day.

LAURA: You guys are hopefully sitting at home
being very good.

LIAM: For fuck's sake, take an Uber.

MATT: All right, guys. Well, have a wonderful
night, and is it Thursday yet? Bye!