MATT: Hello everyone, and welcome to tonight's
episode of Critical Role, where a bunch of us

nerdy-ass voice actors sit around, roll dice, and
play Dungeons and Dragons, while Liam curses at me

a few seconds before we start the show to try and
throw me off. It's worked once before.

TALIESIN: Cock goblins.

MATT: It'll probably work again. (laughs) Welcome
to the show. So yeah, for the returning friends,

thank you for coming, and for new folks, welcome
to the chaos.

TRAVIS: Get the fuck out.

LAURA: Don't say that.

MATT: It's already so hostile here tonight. So I
guess first and foremost, let's see if we can get

through these announcements pretty quick. First
and foremost, a reminder, me and Marisha will be

in Colorado tomorrow at the Colorado Anime Fest.
We'll be guests this weekend there, so if any

folks are coming out, we'll look forward to seeing
you. We'll be flying over bright and early

tomorrow morning. Taliesin, you're also--

TALIESIN: I will be in Phoenix, Arizona at the
Amazing Comic Con, and if you follow me on

Twitter, @executivegoth, I will actually tell you
where I will be at the convention at various

times.

MATT: So you can stalk him.

TALIESIN: You can stalk me. I'll be very
stalkable. E-stalk.

MARISHA: It's like Santa Tracker, but Taliesin
Tracker.

MATT: Yeah. Waldo Tracker. Why has nobody done
that yet? Give it some time. Let's see. Also, I

guess, tonight we're going to be trying out this
new table camera here on the side to give you a

separate view of the battle. We can switch around
as we're finding our way through the amorphous

betterment of our program.

LIAM: Can we work in like a Wolf Blizter hologram?
Like they have on CNN as well?

MATT: I'll put that on the wish list.

LIAM: On the table, next to all the guys.

MATT: Only if it's actually Wolf Blitzer, though.
If we can have him running through the

battlefield, it'll be great.

TALIESIN: Just his head, floating.

MATT: But yeah, so you can head to the Geek and
Sundry Amazon wish list, the link should be in the

chat, for other things they're looking for to
hopefully try and improve this experience and

bring it to you guys and be even better going
forward. So you can check that out, and this

camera's our first leap in that direction, so you
can let us know how you think it works and bear

with us as we still figure this whole thing out.
Let's see. Also, next week, most of us will be at

Wizard World Portland. That's our first Wizard
World, you can check out the website for information

about our events and signings and tickets and
stuff like that, so go check it out, please, we

look forward to seeing you guys, and we'll see you
up in Portland next weekend. What else do we have

going on?

LIAM: Well, you know, we have an ongoing
relationship with Wyrmwood Gaming, which you can

find on the internet. They make beautiful boxes
for holding dice and stuff, and if you use the

code "critrole," "critrole," you will get free
shipping. They have all different kinds of woods,

they're lovely. And then also, hey, this is an
impromptu announcement, but Kurtis Wiebe just

announced on the Twitters, Kurtis Wiebe is the
writer for the comic book Rat Queens.

LAURA: Amazing.

LIAM: We all are addicted to it. He works with
Tess Fowler, who's the artist right now, and

basically their outfit and our outfit are in love,
and Kurtis announced on Twitter today that he is

going to be shoving Vox Machina in there in some
way, somehow, and we're very excited.

LAURA: We're making a cameo appearance in Rat
Queens, you guys!

TALIESIN: Our first cameo.

SAM: I want to be the rat!

MATT: (laughs) You would, wouldn't you? So stupid
excited for that. Can't even. I can't even. It's

so dumb. So dumb. Life is dumb. Life is dumb. But
yeah. So, we got that going on. I can't think of

anything else. If anything else comes up, we'll
throw it in there in the mid-break, but in the

meantime--

SAM: Oh yeah, I want to give a quick shout-out to
my charity of choice, the Pablove Foundation.

MATT: Yes!

SAM: I talked to them today. Their minds were
blown by all the gifts that people have sent in

and donations in the name of Critical Role and the
Critter community. They didn't quite understand

what the Critter community was, but I enlightened
them, and they're so jazzed by you guys. And they

appreciate not just the donations and gifts, but
also, they said that the Critters have been

writing long letters and telling great stories and
stuff, and they're super excited.

MARISHA: That's awesome!

SAM: So keep it going to those charities. The
Pablove Foundation.

MARISHA: Yeah, should we go off and do a shout-out
of each of our charities?

MATT: Sure, go for it.

TALIESIN: First Place for Youth. I'll have a link
up to my Twitter in about five minutes. They help

kids get through school, they help kids who are
orphaned and having issues get their stuff

together and become fabulous teenagers like we
need in this world.

MARISHA: We do. And of course, Sam is with Pablove
Foundation.

SAM: The Pablove Foundation.

MARISHA: Pablove Foundation, which is amazing. I
chose the Nature Conservancy. They're great and

they protect the lands and the animals that is
very important so we can keep having a beautiful

green world.

LIAM: I chose the Planetary Society, just in case
the green world dies, and it promotes exploration

of space, and the stuff like that.

LAURA: I chose My Friend's Place, which is an
awesome, very similar to Taliesin's, it's an

awesome place for teenagers that are runaways or
living on the streets. It gives them a place that

they can crash and really help get their stuff
together.

MATT: 'Sup, Jewel-face?

TRAVIS: I am the Vision.

(laughter)

MATT: Donate to the Vision.

TRAVIS: Yes, I have Operation Supply Drop, which
is a great charity service that delivers fun where

there is none to soldiers that are in combat
overseas. It delivers gaming systems, games,

brings some much-needed levity to areas of high
intensity and overall warrior badassmanship, and

I'm very proud of that.

LIAM: What a variety of charities.

MARISHA: Yeah, that's a good stretch of
charities.

MATT: My charity.

MARISHA and SAM: Oh, yeah.

MATT: I got one too, guys!

MARISHA: Sorry. I sometimes forget about you,
because you're on that side.

MATT: I know, it happens.

LIAM: You're god!

MATT: Hey, no, overlooked my entire life,
it's nothing new. My charity is First Book, which

brings reading materials to underprivileged
children and helps people become more confident

readers and youth that don't have access to
programs to help promote literary adventure and

really delving into the amazing thing that is
reading. Thank you guys for helping us support

that, it's been really fantastic.

MARISHA: All things that are important for the
future.

MATT: So important. More than you'd give it
credit for. Yes.

MARISHA: And of course, as always, Critical Role
always supports 826LA.

LAURA: Yes, continually.

MARISHA: Continually. They are our sponsored
charity of choice, and of course look up 826,

there might be an 826 in your area. And you should
go to their storefronts. They make great date

locations, as Taliesin always says.

TALIESIN: Yes, great date.

LAURA: Oh, they really do, that is a really good
place.

MATT: Find a date. Take them there.

MARISHA: Find the date first.

MATT: Tell them Critical Role sent you.

MARISHA: Don't try and find dates at 826. That
gets-- that's bad.

(laughter)

TALIESIN: Wow, you took that to a dark place. You
took that--

MATT: Anyway. So. So. Let us go ahead and delve
into tonight's game proper, folks. So, to get you

up to speed, Vox Machina, the intrepid band of
adventurers you see before you, after a series of

adventures, had found their way back to their
central city of Emon, in the center of the region

of Tal'Dorei. After a ceremony in which the leader
of their city, Sovereign Uriel Tal'Dorei, was

announcing him stepping down, the town was
suddenly under siege by a group of extremely

powerful and dangerous ancient dragons that call
themselves the Chroma Conclave. After tearing the

city asunder in many places, three of them flew
off into the east under the instruction of the

fourth and possibly largest and leader of the
group, that has recently been found to be called

Thordak the Cinder King, who currently resides in
the center of the city of Emon, claiming that his

mercy is only for those who worship him and
essentially feed his greed and hunger. As such,

Vox Machina, narrowly escaping the battle, a
couple of encounters with these dragons, including

one above their Keep, are housing a number of
survivors who have made their way out of the city

and are currently residing in Greyskull Keep for
protection. You guys went into the city to see if

you could find any other allies and friends that
may have survived this encounter. You befriended a

member of the Clasp, named Garthok, who walked
amongst the rubble and proceeded to show you the

secret entrance he knows to the Clasp, of which
you may be trying to inquire about information. On

your way to that area, you passed by Gilmore's
shop, Gilmore being a good friend of the group and

a powerful magic practitioner and creator of
magical items and artifacts and a number of

glorious goods. His abode, however, smashed and
currently a pile of burnt wood and rock. Looters

were currently poring through, and you attempted
to get them to leave the area alone. It came to

blows, and with many of the looters falling in
battle, two of which were kept locked away. You discovered

the location of where they were hoarding the
massive amounts of gold and artifacts that they

had acquired from the rubble. You then found the
secret compartment in which Gilmore's

teleportation sigil was locked beneath his shop,
where the remaining family of Tal'Dorei, Salda and

the three children, as well as Gilmore himself,
wounded and barely alive, having saved them. You

found that Uriel, the Sovereign, did not seemingly
survive the encounter with the dragons, and

Gilmore nearly fell going back to try and make
sure that you guys were okay, barely escaping with

his life. You managed to save his, and taking the
children, Salda, Sherri, and Gilmore back to

Greyskull Keep, some of you splintered off to try
and acquire the goods that were taken from his

store, however, they apparently had already been
stolen from the location they were being stored

in, or been delivered already, you're uncertain as
to what became of them, but you get the sense that

it was probably best that you chose Gilmore over the
gold at first glance. Making your way back to the

Keep, you've sent Gilmore up to rest for the
evening, some of you have then found your way down

into the temple of Sarenrae, where a number of the
escaped refugees from Emon currently try

desperately to cling to their memories, to try and
keep the shakes at bay and contemplate what the

next step is for survival in this now partially
ruined city. That was where we left off. So. What

would you like to do?

SAM: Kill all the dragons and save the day.

MATT: Good! Roll for it.

LAURA: Oh, that was a good roll. See?

TALIESIN: Natural 20. No, no.

MARISHA: Good show, guys.

LAURA: I rolled five natural 20s before the show
even started.

SAM: That's a great, great idea.

LAURA: So it's all going to be terrible.

SAM: Why are you rolling before the show?

TRAVIS: She feels like she's got to "warm up" her
endless army of dice.

LAURA: No, I just have to figure out which ones I
want to use that night.

TRAVIS: You have five d20s right now.

LAURA: I know, and they're all useful. No, I've
got six out here.

LIAM: Yeah, yeah, definitely all useful.

TALIESIN: This is, by the way, for anybody tuning
in for the first time at home, this is how we

express that we have no idea what to do.

SAM: Where are we?

TALIESIN: We're at home.

MATT: You're in Greyskull Keep.

SAM: And Gilmore's with us?

MATT: Gilmore's with you, he's been brought
upstairs--

LIAM: And did Pike's holy visitor fix the keep, or
is the keep still effed up?

MATT: Actually, in the short time in which her
visitor, this angelic deva-like entity that was

brought forth from Sarenrae's sphere of influence,
did manage to repair entirely the damage that was

sustained to the Keep from the battle with Vorugal
out in your courtyard. So yes, Greyskull Keep is

now back to being intact and rather fairly
polished. The stained glass is affixed and

corrected.

LIAM: It must look so strange next to the ruined
city of Emon.

MATT: It's far enough away, but--

LAURA: Little strange.

MARISHA: So what time is it? It was nighttime,
right? Or was it midday?

MATT: It's about midafternoon at this point, maybe
pushing into the evening.

TALIESIN: Is Kima still around?

MATT: I'm sorry, what was that?

TALIESIN: Is Lady Kima still around, or?

MATT: Lady Kima's been in Vasselheim.

TALIESIN: Oh, not Vasselheim, I'm sorry. Allura.
I'm on the wrong page.

MATT: Yeah, she and Drake went.

MARISHA: Remember, they turned into shooting stars
and they flew away.

SAM: Is Clarota still here with us?

(laughter)

LAURA: We're off to a good start tonight, guys.

MATT: In your hearts. In your heart of hearts.

TRAVIS: No, not even there. That piece of shit.
Where are the majority of the people? Are they in

the dining hall and in the--

MATT: They're scattered between the dining hall
and the temple to Sarenrae. Partially because,

one, there's enough space there, two, it's a place
of sanctity, it's a place of hope, and Pike is

currently bringing people-- not preaching to them,
per se, but offering comfort in their current area

of misery and worry. So those are pretty much the
localized areas. Occasionally one of the kids

might begin wandering the halls, a parent might
chase after them, trying to draw them back in, but

respectfully, no one's wandering the house filling
their pockets, they're all still happy to be alive

at this point.

LAURA: Well, that's because we don't have
anything, because Scanlan's troupe stole

everything anyway.

MATT: There's that, too.

SAM: We bought new silverware.

TRAVIS: Sure we did.

SAM: Maybe it wasn't my troupe, maybe it was our
new guests, the people fleeing for their lives.

TRAVIS: I was going to say, are there any new
people that have come into the keep while we've

been away? Can I ask one of our guards that?

MATT: Sure, yeah. Shayne, who's out front,
currently strolling through the courtyard, comes

up to you, and as you ask her, she goes, "Well,
we've had a few other refugees come in and ask for

"entry, and we patted them down to make sure there
were no weapons and tried our best to keep an eye

"on them since they arrived. Seems like most
everyone's keeping either into the city or keeping

"fairly underground."

TRAVIS: Nobody's sticking out to you, though, no
shady individuals, nobody sweating more than is

necessary when being threatened by a big fuck-off
dragon?

MATT: "Not yet, but I believe Jarett's keeping a
close eye."

TRAVIS: Jarett--

SAM: That guy. Man-crush?

TRAVIS: No.

(laughter)

SAM: I wonder, in all prudence, should we go
around to the 'fugees, the refugees and do a

quick--

LAURA: Insight check?

SAM: -- scan, alignment check or something?

TRAVIS: Lauryn Hill is shaking her head.

LAURA: Do we have anything that can sense people's
alignment?

SAM: Pike might.

MARISHA: Yeah, I can.

SAM: Can you do a mass, a mass sense alignment?

MARISHA: Mass sense alignment?

SAM: Is that a thing?

MARISHA: No, I'm saying I could do some insight
checks on people.

SAM: Oh, I'm talking about your magic.

MARISHA: No, I'm not Pike.

SAM: All right.

TRAVIS: Pike's with us, though, right? She could
do an insight check.

SAM: Is she with us?

MATT: Pike is with you. She is currently helping
folks inside the temple. But you could go ask her

to.

LIAM: Use the skull to wish to know everyone's
alignment. Problem solved.

TRAVIS: We'll kill everyone. Kill everyone.

SAM: Maybe we should just kill one of them to make
an example.

LAURA: This is terrible, what is happening?

LIAM: This isn't the real game, the game hasn't
actually started yet.

MATT: So. Glancing about the populace of scattered
refugees throughout the general vicinity of

Greyskull Keep, I will pick two of you who wish to
be the main surveyors of the crew.

SAM: Is this insight?

MATT: This would be insight, yes.

LAURA: I'm on it.

MARISHA: I'm on it with Vex.

MATT: Okay, so Vex and Keyleth, both you guys roll
insight checks, please.

LAURA: See, this is why I shouldn't have this many
dice, because I don't know what to choose. Okay.

21.

LIAM: Insight?

MARISHA: 22.

LAURA: 21.

MATT: Okay. Both of you guys spend about ten, 15
minutes or so scanning through the crew, asking a

few questions, helping a few folks out while
keeping an eye on reactions around the general

vicinity. No one sticks out to you as being either
hiding their intent, shifty. There are a few folks

that are aloof from the whole experience, who seem
to be either in a state of shock, or discomfort

based on their current surroundings, but nothing
in a way that strikes you as nefarious or

worrisome.

LIAM: And are they all strangers, other than the
people we brought back with us?

MATT: Correct.

LIAM: They are strangers?

MATT: Yeah. There's a lot of people that live in
Emon, and none of them seem to catch your eye.

LIAM: Yeah. Is anyone still badly hurt?

MATT: Most of them have had their wounds tended
to. There are a few that have general scars, some

from elements of frostbite on their skin, who were
caught in the blast, who were salvaged after

Vorugal left. There are a few that have scrapes
and bruises from fleeing from the town, from

collapsing debris from different buildings and
such, but no serious injuries. A few bone

fractures here and there that have been set and
bandaged.

LIAM: I'm going to spend the first bit of time at
home helping Pike, doing whatever she tells me to

do, really, to help the people here.

MARISHA: Is there any deceased that need to be
tended to?

MATT: Well, there are a number of deceased in the
front courtyard, people that were frozen and

shattered as part of Vorugal's attack, which at
this point, most of them have been taken care of

by the guards and given a proper burial on the
outside of the Keep, a few yards away, towards the

inside of the one of the hills. They haven't been
left to thaw, if that was what you're worried

about.

MARISHA: That's what I was worried about.

TALIESIN: Red meat. Red.

LAURA: Gross.

LIAM: Way to go dark. Way to go dark.

TALIESIN: I thought that's what we were doing
today.

MATT: Cost-effective. A number of the refugees
have also helped the guards as well, transporting

the bodies of the deceased and making sure that
they're properly interred in the nearby

countryside.

MARISHA: Okay.

SAM: What are our options here? First of all, do
we know Gilmore's status?

LAURA: Yeah, we need to get him settled in, make
sure he's all right.

LIAM: Well, he's gone up, he's resting.

MARISHA: Yeah, we put him to bed already.

LIAM: He's in Percival's room, I think. You said
you would sleep in your laboratory.

SAM: And when we last left things, there was one
plan to go into the tunnels of the thieves' guild

and try to see if there's any more--

LAURA: Yes. Actually, Garthok.

MARISHA: Yes.

LAURA: Garthok is waiting for us down in those, so
we can go look at the Clasp and talk to them and

everything, because he's told them we're on our
way.

SAM: And to what end, again? We're going to see if
there's any random diplomats left over?

TALIESIN: They're the only functioning
organization left in the city at this point.

LIAM: It's true, they're a double-edged sword,
though. I mean, they should not be trusted, we

cannot trust them, but they are an infrastructure
under the city. They may have more of an idea

what's going on than we do. I'm the best to speak
to them, but I'm not on good terms with them, and

I've never really talked to you about this, but
you were marked at one point, a long time ago.

LAURA: What?

SAM: For death?

LIAM: Actually, yes.

LAURA: Why? What did I do?

LIAM: I'm sure I don't know. The reason there is a
brand on my back is because I interceded. Some

other schmoe died instead of you. You might be a
bit of a sore point with them. I don't know. They

might not remember, but I don't think that's true,
I think they'll remember.

MARISHA: How long ago was this?

SAM: What did you do?

LAURA: So many things.

LIAM: Before we met, when Vex and I were on our
own.

SAM: Was it because you farted that time?

LAURA: You didn't think you could mention this?
All the times we've dealt with the Clasp? You

didn't think it was worth mentioning that I almost
died?

MARISHA: She's already been down there. She's
already been down there! You think they're going

to recognize her now?

LIAM: We're going down to talk.

LAURA: We've been down there to talk.

LIAM: Right. All right.

LAURA: That's why you don't keep secrets.

TALIESIN: Well, I say that we organize a group.
Let's not get overexcited about the sudden

realization that some of us can be a bit iffy.
We've all had a moment, probably within the last

three weeks. I'm not saying I don't.

TRAVIS: I haven't.

TALIESIN: Yes, oddly, you and Pike seem to be
immune.

TRAVIS: It is a virtue.

TALIESIN: But let's organize a group, and let's at
least open relations with them at this point.

MARISHA: Well, hang on, hang on. What are we going
to say to them when we get down there? What are we

going to offer them?

TALIESIN: We are going to offer them our services
in getting this city back to a functioning level.

They don't want a city ruled by a dragon, we don't
want a city ruled by a dragon. It's in their

interest to help us clear the city.

LIAM: They're going to look out for themselves,
and you're probably-- I'm sure you're right, they

want these dragons out, but they will do-- they
will preserve their own existence, and there's a

possibility that bowing before these beasts will
preserve their existence.

TALIESIN: Not long-term, and these are groups that
think long-term.

MARISHA: Wait, are you talking about us bowing to
the Clasp, or the Clasp bowing to the-- okay.

Sorry, there were levels.

LIAM: And yes, we've been down there, we've argued
with them, but we're talking about going down

there and making an alliance, an ongoing alliance,
and shit might come up, that's all I'm saying.

TALIESIN: Let's make it a business deal. We're
talking about making a political decision. This is

politics.

TRAVIS: What if they leave? What if they leave the
city, or what if they turn us in to the dragon to

save their own asses?

TALIESIN: They could. I doubt they'd leave, that's
a terrible waste of an investment.

MARISHA: You're essentially relying on the
underbelly of Emon to restore it.

TALIESIN: I am, I'm relying on greed, it tends to
be exceedingly reliable.

MARISHA: In your experience.

TALIESIN: Yes.

LAURA: In all experience, let's be honest.

TALIESIN: Thank you.

TRAVIS: Said the greedy one to the greedy one.

LIAM: This is one option, are we sure we don't
want to seek help--

SAM: Yes, what are our other options?

TALIESIN: I'm curious as to other options.

SAM: We know why the dragons are here, right?
Ish?

MARISHA: I really feel like it might be necessary
for me to also reach out to the Air and Earth and

possibly even the Water Ashari. It might be
difficult because I haven't been there yet. To see

if they've had any other tears through the other
elemental planes.

TALIESIN: That would be quite wise.

MARISHA: We can also seek to employ their
services.

TRAVIS: Scanlan.

SAM: Huh?

TRAVIS: What about you becoming a spy?

SAM: I've been thinking about that, long and
hard.

MARISHA: Have you?

SAM: Yes.

MARISHA: What are your thoughts?

SAM: Most of what I do is long and hard. And my
thoughts are still: fuck you, no way, fuck off.

TRAVIS: So what you're saying is?

SAM: Maybe.

(laughter)

LIAM: So you're saying there's a chance.

TRAVIS: Your shining moment--

TALIESIN: Nothing is ever going to top the
triceratops, really.

SAM: Maybe the triceratops could kill all the
dragons.

TRAVIS: All right. So we reach out to the Ashari.

TALIESIN: Absolutely.

SAM: How's your homeland?

TALIESIN: I don't know.

SAM: Do we need to find out?

TALIESIN: I would love to.

SAM: You can transport there instantly.

TALIESIN: I can. I just can't get back instantly.

LAURA: You need Keyleth.

TALIESIN: And I figure that they would have sent
somebody at this point if things had gone-- they

have an instant transport to us if they need to
find us.

SAM: True.

LAURA: Unless they don't know about the stone and
the only one with the stone--

TALIESIN: The Council knows about the stone.

TRAVIS: Or there's no one left to send.

LIAM: Yes, if things went south--

TALIESIN: We would've heard.

MARISHA: I can scry twice today.

TALIESIN: That would be lovely.

MARISHA: I can do it two times. So we need to pick
where it's most important to check in versus where

we might want to pop in and say hello.

TALIESIN: Whitestone is also somewhere we could
arm ourselves more completely against something

like this. We're going to have to start--

TRAVIS: With what?

MATT: As a note, too, Pike can also scry as well.

LAURA: Oh, good. Because I would like to check in
to Vasselheim as well.

SAM: How do you kill a dragon? Do we need a
dragon? Can we get a dragon that hates these

dragons? Is that a thing?

LAURA: You know, there is the Slayer's Take.

TRAVIS: Wait, what are we talking about dragons?
Do other dragons hate dragons?

SAM: Yeah, could we find a dragon who could fight
for us?

LAURA: Well, there's metallic dragons.

LIAM: Don't get along with chromatic.

SAM: Do we know any metallic dragons?

TRAVIS: Yeah, where are they?

MARISHA: We would have to go to Vasselheim and
maybe--

TALIESIN: My Aunt Edna.

TRAVIS: What?

TALIESIN: She's a dragon-lady, I don't know if
that's the same thing.

MARISHA: Like, oh, like she-- little ceramic
dragons, she likes collecting them?

TALIESIN: I was mocking him, yes.

SAM: So, wait, the Slayer's Take, what?

LAURA: Well, it's an organization made to hunt
massive creatures, isn't it?

LIAM: It's a horde of fucking ass-kickers, is what
it is.

TALIESIN: We fought a dragon-- we killed a dragon
for them.

MARISHA: They're also rooted in Vasselheim, which
is--

SAM: It's safe.

LAURA: Yes, but-- If everything else is under
attack, Vasselheim is inevitable.

SAM: Yes, but they're protected.

LAURA: For a time.

LIAM: Allow me to play tiefling's advocate. If we
leave now and allow the Clasp to take hold and

form some sort of new shadow government, without
us having any part in it, it's out of our control

completely. It won't be in our control at all. But
maybe if we speak to them now, we'll have a better

idea of what's going on. I'm not sold on any idea
yet, but if we leave now and let things play out,

it's entirely out of our hands.

MARISHA: All right, well, how about this? We can
scry, between Pike and I, four times. So we can

make four phone calls today.

SAM: Not phone calls, just a look.

MARISHA: Yes, look home. No, we can peek through a
window. And we can try and go visit the Clasp.

SAM: Okay, well, let's scry it up, then. Who are
we calling? Whitestone, Vasselheim, center of

Emon?

TALIESIN: Whitestone and Vasselheim, I think.
Definitely.

MARISHA: And I want to check in with--

TRAVIS: Can I object to checking the center of
Emon, right? Because that's where the Cinder King is?

TALIESIN: Yes.

TRAVIS: Didn't it, like, ruin magic when we did it
to the beholder, didn't it see us and laugh and we

were like, augh, it hurts my brain--

TALIESIN: He's got a point. You've got a point.

SAM: You're pretty smart, Grog.

MARISHA: We don't need to scry into Emon.

TRAVIS: I remember.

LIAM: We're talking Vasselheim, yeah? Whitestone.
And you can do it another two--

MARISHA: You know what, let's go talk to Pike,
because Pike might possibly have some sort of

spiritual connection with Vasselheim as well that
might save us a scry.

TALIESIN: It's possible that Vasselheim might be
our next stop after we secure everything here.

MARISHA: Okay.

SAM: Oh, Pike! Oh.

MARISHA: I can also teleport us once today, if we
decide to go anywhere.

SAM: Thanks.

MARISHA: Pike!

SAM: Pike! Pikey!

MATT: Comes out, a little bit of dirt on her brow,
looks like she's been busy handling some of the

folks--

SAM: I reach out and brush the dirt from above her
forehead.

MATT: She smiles and pushes your hand away. "Yes,
what, yes?"

MARISHA: Pike, do you have any sort of spiritual
connection with Vasselheim? Do you feel-- you know

how--

MATT: "I do. I do. Why?"

MARISHA: Okay, can you check--

SAM: Can you scry?

MARISHA: Can you see if they're okay? We want to
scry and check in with a few places.

MATT: "Of course, of course, no worries." She
ushers you guys back into the temple.

MARISHA: Okay.

MATT: And then gets a little nervous when she
starts thinking about it and walks up to the

central platform of prayer and takes out her holy
symbol. Her armor's off right now, by the way,

she's in her ceremonial robes. Because it's hard
to clank around in armor amongst a bunch of

refugees. Sits down and focuses for a second, and
pulls out some salt, and begins spreading it into

a small triangular shape around her, and then
pulls her holy symbol out and closes her eyes, and

for that moment, you can see a beam of sunlight
come through the roof, the glass roof of the

temple, which then refracts into multiple colors
that slowly dissipate around her. You can see,

everyone else that has gathered in the room falls
quiet, and watches on as there is this tiny little

visual miracle. And she stays there for a moment.
A few more moments. Probably about 30, 40 seconds

pass before the light slowly retracts back up
through the glass, and she stands up and turns

around and goes, "Vasselheim seems fine for now.
Untouched from the dragon's scourge, at the very

"least."

MARISHA & LAURA: That's good.

TALIESIN: What of Whitestone?

MATT: "Oh. Yes." She gets right back down into
position with an air of begrudging acceptance.

Focuses for a second. Spends a few more moments in
her scrying ritual before stepping back, and turns

slowly to you, Percy, and says, "Whitestone seems
fairly overlooked by these dragons as well. The

"town rebuilds. People seem to be going about their
lives. Possibly none the wiser as to what's

"transpired this side of Tal'Dorei."

TALIESIN: We'll send word, at the very least.

LAURA: It's all over the water. Maybe the dragons
haven't gone that far.

TALIESIN: It's far north. I'll make sure to send
word.

MATT: "Okay." One of the kids starts crying, and
she goes, "Oh, hold on." And goes over and starts

tending to one of the children who has like a knee
brace on, and is currently aching, and she goes to

help calm him down. "Shh, shh."

LIAM: Do you think you could look in on Syngorn?

MARISHA: Of course.

LAURA: Mostly to see, you know.

MARISHA: I step up to the table, and begin my
scrying ritual, checking on Syngorn first.

MATT: Okay.

TRAVIS: Shit.

LAURA: Come on.

TALIESIN: We need like cups and string or
something.

SAM: We do. Or a walkie-talkie. He's saying,
Syngorn is gone.

LAURA: Don't say that.

TALIESIN: Millions dead.

LAURA: Millions. It's very large.

TRAVIS: Remember to shop at Gilmore's Ruined
Rubble.

(laughter)

SAM: Oh no, he didn't even get a new franchise
before it was--

TALIESIN: For all your reclaimed wood needs.

TRAVIS: Oh. Well done. Well done. That was nice.

TALIESIN: The best was watching Laura go, "Oh what
a great i-- ooh."

TRAVIS: And endless supply of pavers and gravel.

SAM: Gilmore's Building Supplies.

(laughter)

TRAVIS: All your home improvements.

MATT: Back to your regularly scheduled D&D game.

SAM: What did you see, Keyleth?

MARISHA: Syngorn is gone. And I don't mean
destroyed, I don't mean burnt. I don't mean that

it's rubble, I mean it's gone. The city is gone.
There's, like, a huge chasm, a huge empty spot in

the middle of the forest where Syngorn once lied.
Lie.

SAM: Lay. Did it look like it was destroyed to
nothing? Or transported somewhere?

MARISHA: Like that. Like transported, like the
city was lifted out of its place and was

teleported elsewhere.

SAM: Could it have been-- I don't know how your
scrying works-- could it have been some sort of a

magical block? Not real, an illusion of some
sort?

MATT: I would like Vax and Vex to both roll a
history check.

LAURA: Any kind of advantage on that? For growing
up there or something?

MATT: Nope, that's-- you get to roll this because
of that.

LIAM: History?

TALIESIN: Should have stayed in school.

LIAM: Didn't help.

LAURA: Eight.

LIAM: 15.

MATT: Okay.

TALIESIN: Can I take a roll just for being a
nerd?

LIAM: All out of luck.

MATT: Are you proficient in history?

TALIESIN: I am proficient in history.

MATT: Sure, I'll let you roll.

TALIESIN: I want a nerd roll. 24. Book reading!

MATT: Okay. Being the astute researcher, the
indoor kid growing up. Yeah. There aren't a lot of

books that made their way north about pure elven
culture, especially wooded elves, that comprise

the entirety of the Syngorn nation.

TALIESIN: I speak Elven, so that's good.

(laughter)

MATT: It has rarely come into play, but because of
previous wars, terrible devastation, and the need

for the elvish culture to protect itself, and to
maintain its existence, you do know that there

have been instances of large enchantments on
places of cultural importance that would bridge

between here and the Feywild. And as a defense
mechanism, essentially, would cloak and/or shift

those locations.

TALIESIN: They've gone into hiding.

MARISHA: How can you be sure?

TALIESIN: I can't, but there's reason to believe
so. It's what it points to.

LIAM: What points to what? What are you talking
about?

TALIESIN: Historically, elves have, in times of
great stress, taken important sites, important

places, people, and either cloaked them, hidden
them, or moved them into the Feywild until such

time as the danger has passed. There is precedence
for this. They've gone into hiding.

LAURA: Great.

LIAM: That's one more thing our father failed to
impart to us.

LAURA: (laughs cynically) At least he's safe.

TALIESIN: Most likely.

MARISHA: I need to check in on the Air Ashari. I'm
going to spend my last scrying.

MATT: Okay. As your vision separates from your
current place of origin, you find yourself

drifting up into the clouds and speeding through
the air. The location itself is blurred, though

recalling the origin of where you originally came
from, you pass by columns of black smoke to your

left, you assume somewhere related to Westrunn's
current location.

MARISHA: Right.

MATT: Eventually, the clouds part, and you find
yourself thrust down upon the earth amongst the

center of the Air Ashari tribe. You can see the
thin leather constructs that make up a portion of

your people's hovels and buildings. You can see
the nearby chasm-based windfall that pours through

constantly with a gentle whistling sound that
forever is marked as the chorus that guides you

all to sleep every evening. There, you can see
your people amongst various conversations, going

amongst their various daily duties, seemingly
untouched, unscathed, and unaware of what recent

events had transpired.

MARISHA: They're okay.

MATT: That is the last of your scrying capability
for the day.

TALIESIN: You didn't have to know that. Big girls
don't scry. Sorry, I saw it on Netflix.

LAURA: Wow. Wow. Hit after hit after hit today,
Taliesin.

LIAM: You know, just because you can, doesn't mean
you should.

TALIESIN: I know. I know. Coffee hasn't kicked in
yet.

MARISHA: All right, they're okay. They seem
unaware, which is very disheartening on a few

levels.

TALIESIN: Well, they'll know soon enough.

MARISHA: Exactly.

TALIESIN: We are going to need transport.

SAM: To where?

TALIESIN: Ah. I don't think we're going to win
this fight staying here, I think we're going to

have to rally power, I think we're going to have
to rally allies. I don't think there's enough here

for us to win.

LAURA: Can we relocate all of the refugees staying
in our walls? Can we bring everyone through the

Sun Tree? Keyleth? How long does it stay open?

MARISHA: Six seconds.

TALIESIN: We can go in shifts. This is not
something that's going to be solved tomorrow. We

can take a week, and move people.

LIAM: That's true. And there's 50 to 100 refugees,
you said, something like that, right?

MATT: At this point now, in your keep, surviving,
you're looking at the 30s.

LIAM: 30s?

SAM: But there's hundreds more inside the city
walls. Thousands.

TALIESIN: We're going-- we're not going to be able
to empty the city.

LAURA: But we can at least get these people out.

TALIESIN: We can get these people out. And we're
going to need-- and I apologise for the brightness

in my voice-- I think we're going to need an
airship.

LAURA: An airship sounds wonderful, Percy, but--

LIAM: You mean like the one that crashed?

TALIESIN: Like the one that crashed.

LAURA: One dragon attacking it and it's down.

TALIESIN: We're going to need to move quickly,
though, from city to city, and we're going to need

to get word.

MARISHA: Well, moving quickly from city to city--
I don't know.

TALIESIN: We may have to steal an airship or
something.

SAM: You're going to steal a plane?

TALIESIN: I'm making a plan. I'm thinking of a
plan.

LAURA: You keep thinking, there.

TALIESIN: It's working.

MARISHA: Well, I mean, I've recently discovered
that that misty Wind Walk spell that I cast on all

of us is not great for battle, but is great for
travel. And that lasts for eight hours.

SAM: What does? Who?

MARISHA: Remember how I failed and almost killed
us all?

TRAVIS: Shit the bed. Yeah.

MARISHA: Yeah. Thanks, Grog. What I learned out of
that was it's not great for battle, but it is

great for travel. It lasts for eight hours. We can
move 300 feet per second.

LAURA: Wonderful. We get the refugees out, we go
to Whitestone, we talk to them there, we use the

Misty Walk thingy and go to Vasselheim, talk to
the Slayer's Take. This is perfect. Problem--

SAM: Are we going to check in with the Clasp? I
really like Percy's idea about stealing a plane.

I'm just throwing that out there.

TALIESIN: There is an empty airdock that's
currently not being used in the city.

LAURA: Do we need a ship right now, darling? I
understand the joy in it.

TALIESIN: We don't need it now, but we're going to
be-- need to move--

SAM: We could take all of these refugees with us.
Don't you understand? We would be helping

humanity.

MARISHA: I'm with Vex. You all honestly--

LAURA: -- believe a dragon wouldn't notice a giant
airship flying out of the city?

SAM: Not if we hide it with some-- some
smokescreen action of some sort.

LIAM: Guys. This is an RPG, not a JRPG.

(laughter)

TALIESIN: I want to live like Teddy Ruxpin. This
is all I've ever wanted.

(laughter)

LAURA: We need to talk to the Clasp first.

SAM: All right, let's go talk to the Clasp. We'll
ask them what they think about--

LAURA: Plus Allura and Drake are coming back. We
need to talk to them as well. Find out what's

going on in Westrunn. And then we need to get
everyone out.

MARISHA: I can transport some of us via plants
today. I will have to sleep if we want and study

to do the Misty Step again.

LAURA: I've got a plan.

TALIESIN: We have time. This is not a one-day
plan.

LAURA: Here's a good plan. This is a good plan,
though.

LIAM: Here it comes, everybody.

LAURA: Open up the tree. Send a bunch of refugees
through.

MARISHA: Shove a bunch in.

LAURA: Shove them through as fast as possible.
Percy. You go with them. We keep the stone. You go

through. You talk to your sister. You bamf back
with the stone.

MARISHA: Let Whitestone know what's going on.
Because they're going to freak out if like--

LAURA: And then we talk to the Clasp together.

TALIESIN: I think that's a good plan.

MARISHA: They will freak out if 20 refugees pour
out of the Sun Tree. And they have no context.

TRAVIS: Do that first.

MARISHA: Okay. So wait, are you going to go on
your mission while we go talk to the Clasp?

LAURA: No, we're going to wait for you. So can we
get the refugees together?

MATT: All right, so as you go into the temple and
get Pike's attention, you begin to round up the

refugees, which as a statement, historically, is
already unnerving. You begin to push them all

together in a group and tell them what?

LAURA: Well, we comfort them and tell them: all
right, obviously Emon is not a safe place to be

right now.

MATT: "No, that's true, that's true! It's terrible
here!"

LAURA: It's dangerous, and we want to keep all of
you as safe as possible.

MATT: "Yes, and thank you for taking us." Everyone
starts cheering.

LAURA: We have a plan.

SAM: We probably can only take a few. It should be
women and children.

LAURA: We're going to take those of you who need
the most attention first, and we're going to bring

you to Whitestone, which is a city that has not
been affected by dragons at all. It has much need

of people who can do an honest day's labor, and
you can earn a wage and find a living there, for

the time being, and if at some point in time you
want to come back to Emon when all of this is

done, of course you're more than welcome to.

LIAM: There is opportunity.

MARISHA: And no dragons!

MATT: Make a persuasion check.

LAURA: I'm rolling the gold one! 20?

MATT: Okay! A couple of folks currently,
(muttering) "I've never been to Whitestone! Is it cold?"

LAURA: In the winter.

MATT: "It's winter!"

LAURA: Then it could be a little chilly!

SAM: Bundle up! We'll give you some wool blankets
for the trip!

MATT: "Okay?"

LIAM: There's definitely no vampires there. None.

MATT: A couple of kids go, "Vampires, sir?"

LAURA: I like that we're sending to them to the
place that's got the orb of death.

MATT: "What was that? What'd you say?"

SAM: No, nothing, she didn't say anything.

LAURA: I said, "You might be able to see your
breath!"

MATT: "Winter! Right! Okay, let's grab our
things!" And some of the folks start getting their

things together. Packing up their things-- what
they had on their back, essentially, as they

rushed here. Shake a few out of their shell-shock,
and they all gather up towards the center of the

Temple of Sarenrae.

LAURA: Percy-- stone. To go through the--

TALIESIN: I already gave it to Keyleth.

LAURA: Oh, okay.

MARISHA: DM question? How many do you think I can
fit through in six seconds?

MATT: We'll find out!

MARISHA: If I put them in like a line, and we're
like, "Go! Go! Go!"

MATT: That's up to you guys! How do you want to do
this?

LIAM: They can't get-- no one can get cut in half,
can they?

LAURA: Well I assume, as soon as we see it
start to shrink, we stop! We cut off the line.

MARISHA: Well, what we should do-- here's the
thing that I'm worried about. We don't want, like,

a kid to go through, and then they get separated
from their mom.

TRAVIS: Well, everybody's got to grow up at some
point.

LAURA: Anybody with children. How many children
are here?

MATT: I'd say you have seven children.

LAURA: Children with their moms go-- and families
go first.

LIAM: Well, we were saying that the terribly
injured, the people with the worst injuries--

LAURA: All right, those people first!

LIAM: Yeah, those people first.

TRAVIS: Yeah, because they'll go through real
fast.

LIAM: And then with kids-- But they need attention
now! They need--

SAM: Hey! We're going to be doing this every day
for several days.

TALIESIN: Hey, I've got a weird theory. Let's not
send people with injuries yet, so that perhaps

Pike can stay here and take care of them for a
little bit?

LAURA: Oh! Good call, okay! So the injured can
stay.

TRAVIS: Can't we put them on a wagon? Can't we like
put them on a wagon, down and like--

TALIESIN: We don't want to lose a wagon to
Whitestone.

SAM: This is just how Schindler did it, by the
way.

LAURA: What!?

SAM: He debated it for a while, and then--
(nervous laughter).

LIAM: No words! No words!

TRAVIS: And the room goes silent, and the mug
comes up.

LAURA: Okay. So not the injured.

Families first. How about that?

TALIESIN: We'll count to six, and then we'll put
the rope down, and when we hit six, we pull the

rope, and it'll hold everybody--

SAM: Wait, there's a rope?

LAURA: As soon as we see it start to shrink, I'll
hold the people back.

TALIESIN: Yes, hold the people back.

LAURA: So Percy, you're first, everybody follow
through. So any families here? Families?

MATT: Some of the kids raise their hands, some
adults go over and they grab kids' hands and stand

next to them. "Yes."

LAURA: Are you really respons-- I can tell when
you're lying, sir. Are you responsible for that child?

MATT: Make an insight check.

LAURA: 26!

MATT: Ha! Two of those people are definitely just
taking a kid's hand in hopes of getting through first.

TRAVIS: I walk in and start cracking my knuckles
behind Vex.

MATT: "Well, I mean, I can wait, no worries!
Eh--"

LAURA: Child, where's your parents? Do you have
one?

MATT: "They haven't shown up yet."

LAURA: Oh, dear.

SAM: Leave them here, in case the parents come.

LAURA: Okay. Then you would stay and wait for your
family, potentially?

LIAM: You can stay with Pike, for now.

MATT: Pike comes over and pats him on the
shoulder. They're the same height, so it's easy.

MARISHA: Let's do completed full families who are
comfortable relocating.

LAURA: That can move. Here we go.

MATT: Altogether, completed full families, there
are two.

MARISHA: How many people?

MATT: It'd be a total of eight people.

LAURA: That's good! That's a good amount!

TRAVIS: Yeah, think about it! One one thousand,
one one thousand--

LAURA: And then, any other like single people that
can move fast?

MARISHA: Yeah, a couple single people? To bring up
the rear?

MATT: Okay. You have about ten more people that
raise their hands.

TALIESIN: We can get that many through in six
seconds.

SAM: What are you talking about?

LAURA: Get ready to run, people.

MARISHA: All right. So let's go to the tree.
Percy, you're going to lead. Percy, you're going

to lead. We're going to put the eight up front,
with the ten, 15 stragglers behind. I tell them

all: all right. As soon as you see that tree start
to part, run! Run your face off! I tell that to

the crowd.

TALIESIN: And keep running. So that you make room
for everyone behind you, we don't want like-- it's

not the bottom of an escalator. Whatever that is.
It's a thing I've been working on, it's going to

be great.

MARISHA: Don't stop in the tree, you will create
terrible congestion.

LAURA: Everybody comfortable with the plan?

SAM: Can I inspire Keyleth for this?

MATT: Sure.

SAM: Okay, I will perform a limerick for her to
inspire her. I know an airheaded young druid /

whose plans are more gassy than fluid / when the
battle starts / she turns her pals into farts /

they see danger and pass right through it!

MARISHA: Thank you, Scanlan. I love it. It's so
like me.

MATT: Take a 1d10 inspiration die.

TRAVIS: I hate to be the detail-oriented one about
this whole thing, but should somebody be counting

as soon as she starts so we put down an arm at
six?

LAURA: You count in your head, Grog.

TRAVIS: You really don't want me to do that.

MARISHA: Maybe with my inspiration, I can get a
few more seconds in there?

MATT: We shall see. I'll say for the sake of this,
go ahead and roll a wisdom check.

MARISHA: Oh boy.

MATT: A d20 and add your wisdom modifier.

MARISHA: Oh, that's not good.

SAM: You've got inspiration if you need it.

MARISHA: Can I add my inspiration to this?

MATT: Go for it.

MARISHA: Ooh, that's good. That helps a lot. What
am I adding? Just my straight wisdom?

MATT: Yep, wisdom modifier.

MARISHA: My modifier? 19 total.

MATT: 19 total, okay. So as you all gather around
in the center of the temple, Keyleth, you step up

to the outside of one of the two front trees to
the temple, one of the ones you guys usually use

to transport to and from here. As you focus in and
reach your hand out and touch the outside of the

tree's bark, with a rough tearing sound, the tree
bark widens into an oval-shaped doorway that is

immediately visible. On the opposite side, you can
see before you a lightly snow-dappled landscape

that is the central market of Whitestone.

LAURA: We put blankets on everybody, right?

MATT: From what you had.

MARISHA: Go! Go! Now, run, go! Go, Percy, go!

MATT: Who's pushing?

TALIESIN: I'm already through.

MATT: Percy's through. All right, are you guys just
letting them go at their own rate?

TRAVIS: (shouting) Move your fucking asses!

MATT: Roll an intimidation check.

MARISHA: It's like a football line.

TRAVIS: 17.

MATT: 17. With that, everyone goes, (startled
noise) and starts charging through wildly. The

crowd starts pushing through.

MARISHA: I'm trying to hold it.

LIAM: No severed limbs, no whammies!

MATT: Okay. All of the rest-- the family people go
through, the young folks push through. You manage

to get a total of 23 people through.

(cheering)

MATT: Some folks who weren't even planning to go
on this were so driven by the sudden shouting Grog

voice echoing from behind that they charged
forward Black Friday-style, and managed to escape

the tail end of the spell tapering the doorway
off.

LIAM: "I regret nothing!"

SAM: Well, I hope Percy comes back soon.

MARISHA: I've got the gatestone.

MATT: Percy?

TALIESIN: I'm going to get everybody organized.
Everyone, please follow me. We're heading towards

the main castle.

MATT: They're all looking around.

TALIESIN: Welcome to Whitestone.

MATT: A gentle snowfall is coming down. The sky
itself you can see is covered in light, white

clouds. Just enough moisture to carry the little
snowfall that's happening. There are folks in the

center of the town that are surprised to see this
arrival, but recognize you and cheer a little bit.

"Hey! Percival."

(laughter)

TALIESIN: Thank you for that smattering of
applause. Golf claps, please. Golf claps.

MATT: The refugees all gather up behind you, and
you guys walk towards Castle Whitestone.

TALIESIN: We make our way to the castle.

MATT: The guards greet you and lead you inside.
And within a few minutes, Cassandra comes down

from the upper floor. "Percival, you've
returned."

TALIESIN: Things are not going well. Have you
heard any news of Emon and what has been

transpiring there?

MATT: "No, we've been focused on restoring our
city. Why?"

TALIESIN: Yesterday, we were attacked by a group
of chromatic dragons. The city is destroyed.

There's no simple way to say this, but we're under
siege. We were afraid that Whitestone would be

destroyed, as well, but it seems that they have
passed over you so far, but we fear for many

cities' safety. I was hoping that it would be all
right if we moved a small number of refugees

through to Whitestone for the time being. Less
than a hundred, I imagine. These are the first

20-some-odd that we've pulled through.

MATT: And she looks behind you, looks to the
crowd, snaps her fingers. Some of the guards step

forward, she goes,

"Please, if you would make sure to find any of the
various unoccupied buildings are provided to these

"refugees. Thank you."

And the guards nod, and begin gathering the group
and sending them back into town, and she gives you

a look back and says,

"For better or for worse, we happen to have a
number of vacancies in the city due to recent

"events. But--"

TALIESIN: Oh! Well, yes. Nothing I-- Anything I
should know about?

MATT: "No, just-- We've lost many in the struggle
against the Briarwoods. But yes, they will be

"provided for, I assure you."

TALIESIN: So I will let you know to stop all
business with Emon for now. Be very wary, prepare

the city for a possible dragon attack. Things are
looking dark.

MATT: "Yes, yes."

TALIESIN: And if it's possible, any research-- any
energy that can be put forward towards mounting

some sort of defense against these creatures would
be greatly appreciated.

MATT: "Right, right, well, we had a few
individuals that were researching the ziggurat

"beneath the city. Two left a while back and we had
one arrive just the other day."

TALIESIN: Who arrived the other day?

MATT: "I cannot recall his name-- Realm
Seeker, Realm Seer-- I'm not--"

LAURA: (whispering) Eskil Ryndarien!

TALIESIN: Please bring me to him.

MATT: All right, Cassandra leads you down into the
city again, and one of the houses has been

provided, she knocks on the door, the door opens and
you see stepping out, an older gentleman who

you've heard of but not really had an encounter
with since-- no, actually you encountered him for

the final ritual that took the phylactery from
Grog's chest.

TALIESIN: Oh my god.

MATT: But this is Realmseer Eskil Ryndarien, the
archmage that basically was one of the folks who

lived within Westruun and was called to Whitestone
as part of research--

TALIESIN: That's some pre-stream stuff,
everybody.

MATT: As the door opens, he comes out, eyes
adjusting to the light, and you can see the

interior is very dark. He's one of those
live-in-lightless-territory types of person. Comes

out with his round spectacles around his nose, his
robe is disheveled, bundled over his shoulders, he

goes, "Yes, if I may be of service--?"

TALIESIN: We've met! You look very familiar.

MATT: "Quite! Yes we have. You're with those
S.H.I.T.s, weren't you?"

TALIESIN: (laughing) Ah, yes.

MATT: "Unfortunate title you've chosen--"

TALIESIN: Long gone, thankfully, long gone. We're
Vox Machina--

MATT: "Good! Vox Machina, glad you took my
suggestion."

TALIESIN: Yes, thank you for that.

(laughing)

MATT: "What can I do for you?"

TALIESIN: Well, first of all, how goes the
research into the--

MATT: "Frustrating, to say the least. It appears
that this entire--" and he walks back into the

house, expecting you guys to follow. As you enter,
immediately you're hit with the smell of sage and

other burning herbs, and you can see there's a
vast number of books that are strewn about the

table in front. The fireplace in the back is
pouring smoke up into the roof area and soot's starting

to gather on the stonework on the outside. Looks
like there's two or three different kettles going

off with different types of tea. It's complete
chaos in here, but he seems to be in control of

most of it, at least. He goes, "From best we can
ascertain, this is some sort of a magical siphon

"device. It has prevented us from utilizing any
sort of ritualistic endeavors in ascertaining its

"nature, it's quite perplexing. I'm hoping to
either head over to Wildemount, or perhaps return

"to the Cobalt Reserve and perhaps find some
historical information about such an object, but

"nothing in my current--"

TALIESIN: Well, sir, I have some bad news for you.
I hail from Emon, which has been attacked by

chromatic dragons--

MATT: "I'm sorry, what?"

TALIESIN: Dragons have declared war on
civilization. A group of dragons have destroyed

our city, and they have destroyed other cities as
well. We are in desperate need of powers to defend

ourselves with-- So I would be very careful and
send forward-- Send word ahead of yourself before

you travel anywhere, it may not be there by the
time you get there.

MATT: "Well, I guess it's good that I moved my
tower before I left."

TALIESIN: Things are looking grim and I would ask
while you-- If you intend to remain and work on

your research on this anomaly beneath our city,
perhaps thinking as to how it may be turned into a

weapon for our use against these creatures would
not be out of the realm of question, and any

information you do have of the chromatic dragons
would be invaluable. Any research that can be

done. We are at war.

MATT: "This is very disconcerting news. I will do
what I can. Unfortunately, I'd have to get back to

"the Cobalt Reserve. That's where most of my
research is completed."

TALIESIN: That's Westruun?

MATT: "Let me see. Jeckt--" And he snaps his
fingers, and you can see his manservant, Jeckt,

who you've met before, slicked-back darkish red
hair, mustache, very prim and proper-type

manservant, well-dressed, steps out of the
shadows.

"Yes, my lord?"

"If you would be so kind, prepare me for travel,
pack up this--"

TALIESIN: Westruun is no more, sir.

MATT: "Well, that's really frustrating!"

TALIESIN: Yes.

MATT: "Really."

TALIESIN: Extremely aggravating.

MATT: "Yes. I am unhappy with this circumstance!
How am I supposed to do my research without a

"place to do my research?!"

TALIESIN: Well, we hope that you will find our
winters here quite solitary, and convenient on

that level. Things are looking grim.

MATT: "Well, you can say that again."

TALIESIN: I must go. I have other work to do to
start preparing--

TRAVIS: Peace!

MATT: "Yes, yes go! Do your thing!"

TALIESIN: Good day, sir. And good luck to you.

MATT: "Should I find anything, how will I--
whereabouts-- Where are you?"

TALIESIN: We don't know yet, but we will be
returning here.

MATT: "That does not help me. I will do my best."

TALIESIN: Cassandra will be able to get a hold of
me if necessary.

MATT: "Ah, Cassandra. All right! Someone of use
around here."

TALIESIN: I am going to go find my sister and make
my way to the stone.

MATT: He doesn't even say goodbye to you. He's
completely flustered. It's funny. For everyone

who's taken completely by the horror of the
situation, he just seems really perturbed about the--

TRAVIS: Inconvenience of it all.

MATT: Yeah, it's so inconvenient. That library was
very helpful.

TALIESIN: Why isn't the internet working!
(frustrated noise)

MATT: Basically. You find your way to Cassandra
again. She's waiting outside of the room. "I hope

"he's been helpful, brother"

TALIESIN: No, he wasn't helpful, but it was very
helpful the way he wasn't helpful.

MATT: "Yes."

TALIESIN: It's a strange, strange--

MATT: "He's a very strange man."

TALIESIN: Everything's going to be all right.

MATT: "I hope so."

TALIESIN: Thank you. I will return very soon. We
will, again with your permission, hopefully be

using Whitestone as a place to regroup and prepare
ourselves.

MATT: "Is there worry that these dragons might
come here?"

TALIESIN: Yes.

MATT: "How will we stop them?"

TALIESIN: You'll hide. I have thoughts, perhaps of
a weapon. I don't know. But we're going to find a

way to stop them.

MATT: "We have to."

TALIESIN: I'm not good at being the bearer of any
bad news, but this is very dangerous and I don't

know what we're going to do.

SAM: (whispers) Steal an airplane.

MATT: "Neither do I."

TALIESIN: (whispers) They don't have an airplane.

MATT: "Stay safe, Percival."

TALIESIN: I shall return soon.

MATT: "I hope so. We'll do what we can in the
meantime to see to your refugees and hopefully try

"and prepare ourselves."

TALIESIN: There will be a few more through,
possibly tomorrow, with word.

MATT: "All right. We'll be prepared. Thank you."

She reaches out and puts her hand on yours, again,
and looks you sternly in the face and goes, "Be careful."

TALIESIN: I will.

MATT: "You're all I have left."

TALIESIN: And Cassandra, I'm proud of you. You're
doing very well here.

MATT: "There's still a ways to go, brother."

TALIESIN: We'll get there.

MATT: She hands you the gatestone. And with that,
there's a slight popping sound as you're in a very

soft bit of bluish-purple light. Your body slowly
subsides and fades into nothing before it (poof)

vanishes out of existence. As you guys are back at
the keep, suddenly, who has the gatestone? As

you're holding it, it begins to shake in your hand
and give off a warm light.

MARISHA: I think our reservation's ready.

SAM: I'm telling the, what, seven remaining
refugees?

MATT: You have about eight or nine.

SAM: Sorry you didn't make it through. It doesn't
mean that you'll be here forever. We'll get you

there tomorrow. No big. Don't worry about it.

LAURA: More food for you guys, which is A+.

MATT: At which point now, there's a slight smell
of burnt cedar before the air itself begins to

sound like a light hum or vibration as suddenly
Percy's form (poof) appears in the center of the

room next to your gatestone. Both of the stones
you guys are holding all of a sudden become

white-hot, and you instinctively drop them before
they tumble to the ground.

LAURA: Hey! They work!

TALIESIN: They hurt. Good to know.

SAM: That's great. Did you see your sister?

TALIESIN: I did, everything is fine up there, the
research continues. They're happy to take people.

LAURA: That's wonderful.

TALIESIN: So, and they are prepared for more.
They're also happy to be a base of operations as

we put things together.

LAURA: And you told them to make preparations in
case something happens?

TALIESIN: Whatever preparations one can make for
something like this, to be prepared to hide.

(sighs) For now.

LIAM: In the worst-case scenario they can go
underground.

TALIESIN: Worst-case scenario, they can go
underground, yes.

LAURA: They need to start hiding food.

TALIESIN: They have to grow food, they haven't
really recovered that yet. There's also a--

MARISHA: Hopefully I hooked them up there.

TALIESIN: I have one of those terrible ideas I get
on occasion.

SAM: What is it? I love it.

TALIESIN: That thing beneath Whitestone could be a
weapon.

SAM: How?

TRAVIS: Ooh, that's true.

LAURA: Anything touching it disintegrates.

TRAVIS: Yeah! Like a dragon.

SAM: Do you shoot it at something?

TALIESIN: I might be able to turn it into a
projectile.

LAURA: How would you turn it to a projectile-- are
you okay, Keyleth?

LIAM: It is a fun idea--

TALIESIN: A long-term idea.

MARISHA: Just choking on Percy's idea.

TALIESIN: I can make an antimagic missile.

MARISHA: What-- a magic-- a magic missile? An
antimagic missile?

TALIESIN: An antimagic missile.

LIAM: One plus one plus two plus one.

LAURA: One plus two plus one plus one!

SAM: That's a great idea.

TALIESIN: I've been-- I've been mulling it over.

SAM: Could we fire it from an airship of some
sort?

TALIESIN: Yes, I have-- that's actually part of
the idea.

MARISHA: Percy, when I tried to touch that thing
it was like it was sucking me in. I don't think

that thing and me touched. How are we going to
turn it into a projectile?

TALIESIN: I have thoughts, I'm going to follow
them through, and it may require some

experimentation in the future, but I think
perhaps--

MARISHA: At the cost of possibly your life?

TALIESIN: I take my life into my hands any time I
build something. I think that a non-magical

approach to containing it might actually work. I
think the problem is--

LAURA: Well that's good, because it cancels out
any magic--

TALIESIN: I think the problem is that we keep
trying to magic our way out of something that

denies magic, and maybe I can engineer our way out
of it.

MARISHA: Have they found anything out, did you get
any updates?

TALIESIN: A little bit of information, there will
be more later. I'm going to take a look at all

the data and see if it's possible.

SAM: Should we go visit the Clasp?

TRAVIS: Oh, please.

TALIESIN: I'm trying to be more open.

TRAVIS: Yeah, let's go!

MARISHA: What time is it?

MATT: At this time? It's pretty close to dusk, the
sun is getting close to the mountain line, you

probably have another hour of daylight.

MARISHA: Okay.

TALIESIN: To the Clasp?

TRAVIS: Yeah, they're probably nocturnal anyway.
That means they're around at night.

TALIESIN: They're not turtles, no.

MARISHA: Did you learn something new, Grog?

TRAVIS: What?

MATT: All right, you guys heading back into Emon?

SAM: Everyone? Some? All?

TALIESIN: I think Pike should stay behind to take
care for--

MARISHA: You seem to have reservations--

SAM: Vex, are you okay going down there? You're
marked for death by these people.

LAURA: I've been down there several times without
knowing that.

SAM: I know, I feel like it might put you on
edge.

LIAM: She's not marked for death, she was marked
for death, it's just awkward. It's awkward. I'm

not a full-fledged member, they don't like me. I
don't like them!

LAURA: Maybe I can become a member.

LIAM: Maybe you can.

TALIESIN: This is politics, you're not supposed to
like them.

LIAM: Well, let's go, then.

TRAVIS: Yeah! What he said.

MATT: You guys taking the tunnel or you walking
in?

LAURA: Taking the tunnel, we're taking the secret
entrance--

TRAVIS: Oh come on, we're never even-- we've not
even walked in yet.

LAURA: Garthok showed us the secret entrance, he's
waiting for us and having them prepare our way,

this could get bad.

MATT: No, are you guys walking through your tunnel to the
city, is what I'm saying.

LAURA: Oh! That! Yes. Cool.

LIAM: We're not going to walk in the open.

SAM: What are we doing?

LAURA: We're taking our secret tunnel into the
city.

SAM: Okay. It puts us in the wrong side of the
city, but it's okay.

LAURA: What else are we going to do?

MARISHA: (coughing)

LAURA: How you doing there? You okay?

MARISHA: I'm good. Mm-hmm. Sorry. I got a piece of
chip stuck.

TALIESIN: No, I'm going to leave one with Vax.

TRAVIS: What is it?

TALIESIN: I'm giving Vax my gatestone.

LIAM: That's a good idea.

TALIESIN: I'm giving you the other one.

LIAM: For now, it's a good idea, I won't hold onto
it forever.

TALIESIN: He's the one who's going to get stuck
in a room alone if they decide they don't like him.

LIAM: Can we call this the Jenga stone? In moments
of need.

TALIESIN: Jenga stone. Remember, it takes about a
minute to work.

LIAM: Do I need to spend a little time with this?

MATT: No. However, it does work only once a day.

LIAM: Once a day?

MATT: After another long rest you'd be able to use
it again.

LIAM: All right. Good to know. All right.

SAM: Into the city.

LAURA: In your pants.

MATT: Like you do. Half-elven storage space. You
guys find your way back into Emon, utilizing your

secret tunnel entrance, coming up through the
false outhouse once again. You leave the chain

behind, locking it up, and make your way into the
city.

LAURA: Cast Pass Without a Trace on us.

MATT: All right. You guys, I'd like you all to
make a stealth check.

TRAVIS: Come on, giant blue nut ball dice.

Natural 20!

LAURA: Aw, it fell out of my hand. I don't think
it should count if it fell.

MATT: Nope, too bad.

LAURA: Aw, that's mean. Oh, I get advantage!

SAM: Oh, and we get a plus ten, right?

TALIESIN: 33.

SAM: 15.

MARISHA: 35.

LIAM: 38.

LAURA 35.

TRAVIS: Natural 20.

SAM: Wait. With no judgment, is Trinket coming?

LAURA: Trinket is staying with Pike.

SAM: That's a fine decision.

MATT: Okay.

TRAVIS: Hell hath frozen over.

MATT: Placing Trinket over here.

LAURA: Oh! He's crying! I'm crying.

MATT: So as you guys start dodging between the
alleyways, making your way towards the north side

of Emon, alongside the ruined interior of the
Cloudtop District, you instinctually begin to--

and I'd say-- who else has proficiency in
perception?

LIAM: Right here.

MATT: All right. You guys all start noticing there
are what looks initially like flocks of birds

moving through the sky. Some of them are heading
down into parts of the town in the distance. As

you continue to push forward, one set of four in
particular start heading overhead. You look up and

you can see a small cluster of about five or six
flying creatures. Not dragon-sized, by any means,

but either a very, very large bird or something of
that degree. You can't make out the details, as

right now as the sun's beginning to set, a lot of
it's dark against a red-orange sky. You keep

yourself at bay, waiting for them to pass.

MARISHA: Oh, waiting for them to pass?

MATT: Unless you guys want to do something else.

LAURA: As a dragon-favored enemy, could I
guesstimate what those winged creatures are that

would hang out around dragons?

TRAVIS: Could you determine if they're wyverns?

MATT: Yes. They are actually indeed wyverns.
Wivverns. However you want to pronounce it. Both

work in my world. It's fine.

LIAM: It's pronounced 'jif'.

MATT: Yes.

(laughter)

MATT: I will fight you. But yeah.

SAM: They're diving into the city?

MATT: You can see a few that dove into city and
stayed there. And one group goes overhead, and

continues onward.

MARISHA: Okay.

MATT: Pushing forward, deeper into the city, you
make your way through the Temple District, and

start pushing through Abdar's Promenade once
again, retracing your steps from the day before,

dodging through open areas as fast as possible to
stay within the shadows. All of you go darting

into one of the alleyways. As you turn behind you,
you can see your tiny-legged gnomish bard friend,

keeping up as best as he can before his foot
hitting a divot on the ground and (slam) falling

face first on the ground, making just enough
noise--

SAM: Sorry. Sorry.

MATT: You hear a little screech in the distance.
(screech) And coming up on the rooftop, you can

see, perched up there, appears to be one wyvern
that is looking over down at the currently toppled

gnome, and on top of the wyvern, you see something
riding it. Something that is holding reins on the

edge, something humanoid is glancing over, just a
little enough of a shadow, to see.

SAM: He sees me? I see him?

MATT: He looks down at you, yeah.

SAM: Okay. I will cast Hold Person on him.

MATT: Okay.

SAM: I don't know what he is, but I want him to
stop.

LIAM: And Scanlan's the only one-- we all see it?

MATT: You all barely see it looking over the edge
as Scanlan's there, left in the middle of the main

walkway. That is going to be a natural 17 on the
will save. That'll be an 18. What's your DC?

SAM: Well, it's 17, but the hand-cone makes it
19.

LAURA: Ah-ha!

SAM: Do you think I had the wherewithal to use
it?

MATT: With having you fallen on your face, I'd say
probably not. Since it wasn't specified, that

would be a DC of 17. So the creature seems to rear
back for a second, shake its head, and you get a

little bit of a look at the features at this
point, too. And it is humanoid, but you can see

its outer body is not fleshy, or smooth, it is
scaled and bumpy. You can see ridges across the

back of the head, and in one of the hands, looks
like some sort of a spear. Immediately as it rears

back, it puts its head up and goes (guttural
gibberish).

LAURA: The creature?

MATT: Yeah, riding on the back of the wyvern.

LAURA: Those are the things that attacked the
airship!

SAM: Yes. Possibly.

MATT: I would like you all to roll initiative.

TALIESIN: This is going to be fun.

LAURA: I think you should turn it into a bunny,
Keyleth! Turn it into a bunny.

MARISHA: Jesus Christ. I can do that today. Just
rolled shitty on my initiative.

LIAM: Not too good.

SAM: (singing) This is the music that plays when
we fight!

MATT: All right, so! Scanlan, as you were running
across the thoroughfare, you tripped and fell that way.

SAM: That's me!

MATT: The rest of you had come into this alley
over here. Currently, looking over the top of this

rooftop, is this wyvern and its rider.

MARISHA: I love that the rider is like (derpy
noise).

MATT: (imitates derpy noise) It's fine.

MARISHA: Go home, rider, you're drunk.

MATT: That's going to be-- 25 to 20?

TALIESIN: 26.

TRAVIS: 20.

MATT: 20. All right, 20 to 15?

LAURA: 18.

MATT: 18, let's see. Vex. 15 to ten?

SAM: Yikes.

MATT: Ten to five?

SAM: Eight! No, seven.

MARISHA: Five.

MATT: (laughs) Okay.

TALIESIN: Wow.

LIAM: Uno!

MATT: Plus?

LIAM: Oh, six, thanks for that.

MATT: So you would be-- actually, technically,
Keyleth, is next to you.

LIAM: That was so crushing, to see the number on
the die.

MATT: Aw, sorry buddy. It happens to the best of
us. All righty. So. Currently with this guy up on

top of the rooftop, Percy, you are first.

TALIESIN: Quick question, is he in flight, or is
he just sitting on the rooftop?

MATT: Just sitting on the roof, perched on the
edge. You can't even actually see him, everyone

else who's near the front can see, the few that
made the check. You've got a little bit of

movement up there, but you're just out of view
with the building-- you're right in an alleyway.

TALIESIN: There's no easy way up onto the roof, is
there?

MATT: Aside from a well-placed acrobatics check.
You could try.

TALIESIN: That would be my whole movement, too,
wouldn't it, though?

MATT: Most likely.

TALIESIN: Nah, let's see.

TRAVIS: And how high is the roof?

MATT: I'd say it's about anywhere from 16 to 20
feet tall. It's two-story, but it's not extremely

well-built.

TALIESIN: I'm going to try to get a vantage point
where I can at least get where he's only

three-quarters cover. So I suppose I'm going to
head south down the alley to see if I can get a--

MATT: Pushing to these guys?

TALIESIN: Yeah.

MATT: Okay, so one-- You can get to about there if
you want to.

TALIESIN: I can get a good look at him there.

MATT: You can see, yeah. He'll have half-cover
from there.

TALIESIN: Half-cover's fine. So, if I were to
knock him prone, would he fall off the roof, or

could I try and push him off the roof? These are
my--

MATT: For the wyvern, or for the rider?

TALIESIN: The wyvern.

MATT: You can try. It's hard-pressed, he's sturdy
on the side, knocking him prone might fall over

onto the rooftop. Who knows if it'll slide or not.
It's your call. What do you want to try?

TALIESIN: I'll try knocking him prone, and see if
that does it.

MATT: Okay!

TALIESIN: Actually--

SAM: Do it!

TALIESIN: Yeah, it's either that or try and push
him off the roof, which could be pretty funny.

I'll try and knock him prone.

MATT: Okay.

TALIESIN: All right. So I'm going to use Bad News,
because that's funnier.

MATT: Okay. So (whoosh) you whip out.

TALIESIN: Take a shot. That's a 28 to hit.

MATT: That'll hit.

TALIESIN: And that's a wing shot, so you have to
make a constitution saving throw.

MATT: Okay.

TALIESIN: Against 18.

MATT: Well, this is the wing or leg shot, right?

TALIESIN: Wing or leg shot. I'm sorry, that's a--
Actually, I'm sorry, I have the new sheet.

MATT: Yeah, new sheet on that one. Updated that.

TALIESIN: Strength saving throw. Sorry, strength
saving throw against 18.

MATT: Okay. That's a natural 19 plus four for
strength, so that's a 23 on the save.

TALIESIN: Motherfucker, but he'll still take some
damage.

MATT: Still takes damage though, go ahead and
roll.

TALIESIN: I'm going to take another shot at him,
too, because eff that. I was not quite prepared

for this. 2d12 plus six, four, eight, 14 points of
damage.

MATT: 14 points of damage, nice. All right.

TALIESIN: And I'm going to take a-- reload, take
another shot and try and knock him off the roof.

MATT: Go for it. The same shot?

TALIESIN: Same shot. Ugh. That's a three, so that
means I--

MATT: Misfire.

SAM: Clank!

MATT: So, first shot of Bad News, (explosion
noise) echoes, the sound of the blast rippling

through the nearby alleyways, the blast hits the
wyvern in part of its arm, sending a spray of

blood as it shrieks in pain. As you can see its
rider is moved to the side, and you see a second

head behind the rider from the reaction of
movement. Looks like there's actually two of these

creatures riding on the back of this creature. As
you go to reload, bring Bad News up again to fire

a second time, you pull the trigger and there's a
(thump) sound, and you can see now a stream of

smoke pouring out the back of the gun itself, and
you're a little worried what this is going to do

if you don't fix it soon.

TRAVIS: Look down the barrel!

SAM: Yeah, that'll work.

TALIESIN: I can use my-- I actually can't do-- Am
I going to panic and try and fix this?

MATT: Next turn? That's your movement, that's your
three attacks, do you have a bonus? Anything?

TALIESIN: I can-- I'm going to, I'm going to throw
an action surge and see if I can fix this.

MATT: Go for it. Go ahead and make your tinker
check.

TALIESIN: Yes! Yeah, 14.

MATT: So you spend your action quickly trying to
fix the gun and get Bad News back. You manage to

clear the barrel, get the pellet out, as the rest
of the team starts coming up with their turns.

That'll be the rest of your action. Okay, finishes
Percy's turn. Grog, you're up.

TRAVIS: I'd like to hold my turn until it gets off
the roof and maybe comes down to the ground.

MATT: Okay, okay, good to know. Let's see here. It
appears that my-- Taliesin, could you do me a

favor and hand me that box next to the fridge
there?

TALIESIN: Sure.

MATT: Thank you. All right, so Grog, as you're
doing that, the blasting sound of Bad News that

echoed through, you all of a sudden start hearing
other shrieks in the distance, like a call to arms

of a number of other entities.

MARISHA: Oh boy.

MATT: As you see a multitude of other winged
creatures begin to arise in the distance.

TALIESIN: I shouldn't have gotten him that box,
should I?

MARISHA: Was that in the box?

TRAVIS: Yeah, we could always run, too.

TALIESIN: Could.

SAM: How far are we from the tunnel system? Far.

MATT: You're a ways. Probably a good 25-minute
run. There's another one on the roof over here.

And there's one on this roof here. Each one of
them with their own riders, as well.

LAURA: Shit.

MATT: Now. All right, so for this turn, this one
leaps off and swoops down here to where Percy is

while both of its riders leap off to the side. One
that leaps off and rushes over to Scanlan on the

ground, and this other one that gets right up next
to Percy. This one goes flying forward and lands

in the center to about there. Two of its riders
leap off. This one stays up in the air over this

way in a flanking position-- or in a visual
perspective with two of its riders on its back.

Put them there.

LIAM: For clarification, does this count as turns,
or are they, since they're coming late to the

party, or this is just them in position?

MATT: This is them now entering the fray.

LIAM: Are they into the initiative order, just
gameplay talk?

MATT: Yeah. Well, this is the initiative I rolled
for them after being called by the guy who was

already shouting out into the air.

LAURA: Oh, right, right, right.

MATT: You didn't see them before, given your
perspective. These guys leap off over here-- over

there. Okay. So we have, first the wyvern that
swooped down on you, Percy, is going to go ahead

and make an attack with its bite and an attack
with its stinger as a multiattack. So that first

strike, that is going to be a-- The bite, 13?

TALIESIN: That does not hit.

MATT: The stinger, however, is a 19.

TALIESIN: I'm going to use my Amulet of the Shield
and up my AC for that attack to 23, so.

MATT: Yeah. So that will miss. So that uses the
Amulet. Good to know. So the stinger goes to

strike you after the bite misses, and as you grasp
your chest, you can see now an arcane barrier

shines in front of you and completely ricochets
the stinger out into the air to the side as it

reacts angrily. The other giant humanoid lizard
creature that's coming towards you with a giant

heavy club is going to attempt to slam you with
it.

LAURA: There's so many things!

MATT: Twice. Well, it's going to attack you with
its club, that's going to be a 17.

TALIESIN: Nope.

MATT: And then it's going to try and slam you with
a spike shield. That is 15.

TALIESIN: Nope.

MATT: So that guy starts swinging at you loosely.

TALIESIN: I'm sword out. Yeah.

MATT: All right. Attacking you, Scanlan.

SAM: Oh. Shit.

MATT: The one that's on the ground there. All
right. So it has two attacks against you with

advantage.

SAM: With advantage?

MATT: Because you're prone. You're on the ground.
That'll be a 24 to hit.

SAM: Yeah, yeah, okay.

MATT: And the spike shield is going to be a 24
again, actually.

LAURA: Oh no!

MATT: So as you're on the ground, it slams you
with a shield for 12 points of bludgeoning damage.

SAM: Okay.

LAURA: Why didn't I bring Trinket?

SAM: I know! What's wrong with you?

MATT: The shield slams you for eight points of
piercing damage. So a total of 20 points of damage

as (whack) slams you into the ground twice.

LAURA: I thought this was a stealthing mission!

MATT: It was until he rolled a 15 stealth.

SAM: Blame me, blame me.

MATT: Those wyverns are too far away for combat.
The other guys are just assisting the scenario here.

LIAM: Percy shot at them.

MATT: Okay. There's one fellow over here that is a
bit far away who steps off. Instead of holding the

same clubs and shields or other various hack
weapons, he's carrying a gnarled staff.

SAM: Oh, shit.

MATT: Steps forward and sees the weapon that you
fired twice and had been fixing, this large

metallic dangerous entity, looks forward and
begins hissing under his breath (hissing gibberish).

SAM: Do I see this?

MATT: You do.

SAM: I'm going to release my--

MATT: Though you are being slammed on the ground.
I'd say make a perception check, actually, to see

if you see this.

SAM: Okay.

MATT: Because you are currently--

SAM: 19!

MATT: Yes, actually, I will say you do see this.

SAM: I will release my Counterspell.

MATT: Okay!

SAM: I assume he's casting something.

MATT: He is, actually--

TRAVIS: Or has a terrible cold.

SAM: And I will-- I will sing at him, (singing) And you
still haven't hit what you're aiming for!

MATT: That's a second-level spell, it is dispelled
immediately. As he'd attempted to Heat Metal on

your weapon, you can see as the metal begins to
glow for a moment and you could feel the heat

welling in your hand, all of a sudden the spell
(crack) is shattered, like the sound of thin glass

in the distance as Scanlan shouts to intercept its
arcane ability. That is going to end their opening

turn. That brings us down to the initiative order.
Vex, you're up.

LAURA: Oh, I think Grog was before me.

MATT: Oh, right, Grog, you're holding your action
first.

TRAVIS: Right. Can I barrel down through the alley
now that someone's on the ground, and race towards

the one that's nearest Percy?

MATT: I'll say sure. Usually, going forward, if
you hold your action, that's just your action, not

your movement, you still move to the situation,
but I'll let it stand for this, it's fine.

TRAVIS: I'll remember that going forward.

MATT: Yeah. So you're going to tear down to this
guy there?

TRAVIS: Yeah. I would like-- and I would like to
swing twice with Craven.

MATT: Go for it. Still maintaining your bonuses
from last game, by the way. You haven't taken a

short rest yet.

LAURA: Oh my gosh!

TRAVIS: Yes indeed.

LAURA: He's so strong from the last game.

TRAVIS: Plus-- That's 26.

MATT: 26 hits.

TRAVIS: And a 14 on the second one.

MATT: 14 does not hit. This is the Great Weapon
Master?

TRAVIS: No, these are regular attacks.

LAURA: You didn't rage yet?

MATT: Did you rage?

TRAVIS: Yeah. Oh! No, I did not.

MATT: Do you want to rage as part of your bonus
action to this?

TRAVIS: I would like to rage.

MATT: Okay. Figures. All right, so as your bonus
action you go into a rage before you strike. Go

for it.

TRAVIS: 12-- 22? Oh, wait. Yep, 22.

MATT: 22 damage. All right. The second strike
missed.

TRAVIS: Oh, that's right. 22, that's it.

MATT: 22. So you rush forward, slam the sword into
the side of the lizard creature. It puts its

shield up and it manages to block most of the
blow, but it still slides off and slams into part

of its neck area. It shoves the blade out.
However, it fails its save.

TRAVIS: Yes!

MATT: Take a strength point off of it and add that
to what you have now. What's your strength

currently?

TRAVIS: 22.

MATT: So it goes up another plus one to attack and
damage. If it became 22, it does.

TRAVIS: Yes.

MATT: All right. Grog, that ends your turn. Vex,
you're up.

LAURA: Is there anywhere I can stand that I get a
good cone shape? Or am I all blocked in?

MATT: You can try to move through. You might get
an attack of opportunity from the guy that's

attacking Grog.

LAURA: Okay, how high is the roof next to me?

MATT: It's about 16, 20 feet.

LAURA: Could I acrobatics that shit up?

MATT: You could try to. Go for it.

LAURA: Okay.

LIAM: Parkour!

LAURA: Hold on. Oh! 31?

MATT: With that, you look over and see the rooftop
up there. You leap off each side, Ninja

Gaiden-style. Hop onto the rooftop with a solid
view of the entire battlefield before you,

including the one flying creature up there.

LAURA: Oh, okay. Then I'm going to Hunter's Mark
the magic user.

MATT: All righty.

LAURA: And I'm going to Conjure Barrage in a cone
to get as many of those fucks as I can.

MATT: Okay, so it's a 60-foot cone. Right there?

LAURA: Yeah, sure. Sorry, Scanlan.

MATT: You will hit Scanlan, as well.

SAM: Oh, balls! I'm a little man!

MATT: All right, so go ahead and roll for that.

LAURA: 3d8.

MATT: Yeah, roll 3d8 damage.

SAM: 3d8 damage?

MATT: Yeah!

LAURA: It's not that much. 16, and then an extra
d6 on that guy. An extra six.

MATT: Okay, so does he make his save? He does
not.

SAM: Do I have to make a save?

MATT: Yes, you do.

SAM: What kind of save?

MATT: This would be a dexterity saving throw.

SAM: And I'm on the ground. That's a nine.

MATT: You take 16 points of damage from that.
That's a fail, and a success. So 16. The wyvern

makes that, so half that for eight. He fails. All
right, cool. Got it. So as you go forward, leaping

up on top, you mark the one guy, turn around, and
release a torrent of arrows that sprays into the

center of this open pathway of the city. I believe
that ends your turn.

LAURA: Yes, it does.

MATT: All right, that brings us to Scanlan.

SAM: Oh, me?

MATT: Yep.

SAM: Balls. Shit. I'm on the ground. If I stand
up, that's my action?

MATT: It's half your movement.

SAM: That's half my movement. Okay, I'll stand up.
He doesn't get to hit me, right?

MATT: Not unless you move away from him.

SAM: Okay. Which riders are still on their
beasts?

MATT: These two are the only two that are still on
their beasts.

SAM: I will ignore the guy next to me and I will
Hand Cone it up, and I will-- he's got two riders?

MATT: Yeah, they have these ramshackle-- you can
see now with a closer look, these leather kind of

saddles? But they're mostly thrown leathers that
are strapped to its back, and there's two of them

holding onto these knobs in front to stay on.

SAM: Two riders?!

LAURA: Come on, Scanlan.

SAM: I guess I'll Dominate one of them. The main
guy.

LAURA: Can you Dominate the beast?

SAM: He's not a person.

MATT: There's Dominate Person and Dominate
Monster. They're two different things.

SAM: I'm going to dominate the guy in front.

MATT: Okay.

SAM: Maverick, not Hollywood.

TRAVIS: It's Maverick and Goose!

SAM: Well, at the end, it was Hollywood.

TRAVIS: No, it was Merlin.

SAM: Merlin?!

TRAVIS: Yeah. Tim Robbins.

SAM: Merlin was the teacher, the guy who spun out.
Hollywood was the guy who was his--

TRAVIS: You don't want to do this with me.

TALIESIN: This is the first conversation I've ever
been in in this group where I feel young.

MATT: The rider's screeching down while it's
holding on, and all of a sudden it shakes its head

for a minute and looks down at you, eyes
connected, and you know that this entity is

waiting for its command.

SAM: Can I only give it one command per turn?

MATT: You can give it a basic command and it will
follow it through, unless you wanted to directly

control it.

SAM: Well, I've got two things to do. He's got to
get rid of that fucker on his back, and also other

things. Let's go for the big kahuna. I command him
to ride his beast to attack the one below him. The

wyvern below him.

MATT: Okay. All right, good to know. And do you
want to stay where you are? Do you want to move?

SAM: No, I don't want to move because he'll hit
me. That would be bad. Who hasn't gone? You

haven't gone.

TALIESIN: Vax hasn't gone--

SAM: Vax hasn't gone? Oh my god.

LAURA: No. because he rolled a one, remember?

LIAM: Yup!

SAM: Okay. I will inspire Vax with my inspiration.
And I will say: This is ground control to Major

Vax, you've really made the blade. And the papers
want to know whose blood you spilled!

MATT: (laughs) All right, take your d10
inspiration die.

LIAM: d10. Yes.

SAM: Rest in peace.

MATT: All right. That's Scanlan's turn. Vax,
you're up.

LIAM: So I'm having trouble seeing the battle map.
Grog is right against a wyvern, right?

MATT: Grog is against a lizard-like creature--

LIAM: Oh, so not against a wyvern?

MATT: No. That's a little bit away. But Percy is
next to it.

LIAM: Oh, so Percy is right there?

MATT: Correct, yes.

LIAM: And Scanlan's next to the magic user,
right?

MATT: The magic user's over here, that's been
Hunter's Marked.

LIAM: Scanlan's up against a dude, right? All
right, so what I want to do is slink up behind

Percy, reach over-- oh, no, I want to click my
Boots of Haste, is what I want to do.

MATT: Did you use them during the battle against
the looters?

LIAM: I don't think so.

TRAVIS: I don't remember him doing it.

LIAM: No, I didn't. No I didn't, I definitely
didn't, because I remember kicking myself for-- I

definitely didn't. Okay so, click, everybody
starts moving slower around me. I want to-- so

Percy's against the wyvern, I want to reach over
Percy's shoulder and stab the wyvern, and then I

want to throw another dagger at the dude standing
next to Scanlan.

MATT: On this side there, you mean?

LIAM: Yeah. Well, I can't tell, I can't see shit--
is that over Percy's shoulder?

MATT: Because right now you're being blocked, you
can't quite get to the wyvern unless you move

around the building that you left.

LIAM: But I can go around it, yes, let's do that.
I'm going to stab the wyvern in the butt, and then

I'm going to throw a dagger from my other hand at
the guy standing next to Scanlan-- I've got a

question for you. Because both of them have
somebody who's running interference, do I get

sneak attack damage on both?

MATT: You only get one sneak attack damage per
turn.

LIAM: Just per turn?

MATT: Once per turn.

LIAM: All right. So I'm going to use sneak attack
damage on the wyvern if I get it.

MATT: Go for it! So first strike against it, as
you (whoosh) whip around the side of the building,

blades out--

LIAM: 25!

MATT: That hits!

LIAM: And then for the dude by Scanlan gets a--
word, 19.

MATT: Yep. If you have both blades out, you get a
third attack too, don't forget.

LIAM: I do. Oh-- yes. So the third stab will go
back at the wyvern.

MATT: Okay! So the sneak attack against the
wyvern, first strike.

LIAM: Yeah, and the last one was a 24 total, so
that hits as well. Okay! So that's two, one, yes.

That's 14, 17, 22, 23, 25, 27, 29 into the
wyvern.

MATT: All right.

LIAM: And then the jerk over by Scanlan gets
seven.

SAM: Yes!

LIAM: And then the wyvern takes another, the Keen
Dagger, takes another nine.

MATT: All righty. So, as you rush around, you stab
the wyvern on the back of its haunches and you see

it shrieks in pain (screeches), looks over its
shoulder and starts biting its tail, its stinger

swinging about, but you avoid it, fling the other
dagger to the side and then jam the other side of

its haunches with your other hand. It's definitely
aware of your presence now.

LIAM: Did I use up all my movement?

MATT: Nope!

LIAM: Knowing that it can swat at me, I'm going to
try to go right back around where I came from.

MATT: All right.

LIAM: And I'm wearing the Cloak of Displacement.

MATT: Okay. It's going to swing at you with
disadvantage.

SAM: Just call it cloak number seven.

MATT: That's a two on the first roll, so yeah.
That misses you. (whoosh) Its stinger swings out

towards you and you duck underneath, it slams to
the side of the building, breaking part of the

wood, you can see splinters fly out to the middle
of the road. That ends your turn?

LIAM: Yeah.

MATT: All right. Keyleth, you're up.

MARISHA: Okay. How far away am I from this guy,
like-- roughly how many feet?

MATT: Roughly--

MARISHA: The guy who's in the air, flying.

MATT: I'd say about 60, 65 feet.

MARISHA: Beautiful. I want to move up and around--
here-ish.

MATT: Okay.

MARISHA: Sorry, I've got this thing in the way.
Back a little bit-- scoot back. Is that still in

your path?

SAM: No, he's my guy.

MARISHA: He's your--? Oh. Well, I'm not going to
fuck with him. I'm going to-- you Dominated the guy?

SAM: I Dominated the guy.

MARISHA: Should I turn the wyvern into something
else?

SAM: I don't know. I don't know.

MARISHA: Should I Polymorph him? Yeah, I guess
he's Dom-- you are Dominating that guy. Is there

anything else that's flying? He's the only one
that's up in the air left, right?

MATT: Yeah, all the other wyverns have landed and
let their riders off on the sides.

MARISHA: So you commanded him to attack the one
below you, right? I'm going to turn that wyvern

into a-- chicken!

MATT: This one?

MARISHA: Yes!

MATT: Okay. What's the save on that?

MARISHA: Poof! He has to make a wisdom save.

MATT: That is a seven!

MARISHA: Fail!

MATT: And with that-- (laughs) The wyvern--
(laughs) Twice now--

MARISHA: (laughs) This is my favourite game, you
guys!

MATT: The bane of wyverns everyone-- (swoop,
chicken noise). As both the riders tumble off,

slamming into the ground (sound of impact). That
would be-- Okay, ten points of damage to the

wyvern, which kills the chicken form entirely. It
turns back to a wyvern on the ground, taking the

excess three damage.

LAURA: Yeah-- (laughs) Keyleth.

MARISHA: Fuck.

LAURA: Shit! (laughs)

MATT: What?

SAM: Do I keep hold of my guy?

MATT: The riders fall also, they both take an
additional 14 points of damage to each of them

from the fall.

MARISHA: They all took damage-- and they're on the
ground now.

MATT: Let's see if it takes damage and makes a new
saving throw against the spell. Does not make it,

so it is still Dominated.

SAM: Oh. Okay. Thank God.

MARISHA: I didn't fuck it up this time.

MATT: But they are all-- all three of them are
considered prone for now. They are all knocked prone.

MARISHA: Cool. That's my turn.

MATT: All right, ends Keyleth's turn. At the top,
Percy, you're up.

TALIESIN: Okay. Where am I, I can't see--

MATT: You're right here, you're blocked in between
the two buildings, the mouth of the alleyway, with

a wyvern and lizard creature right there, standing
before you.

TALIESIN: Okay, I have no advantage on any of
these bastards at the moment if I were to attack.

Okay, that's fine. And how would you describe--
these are like scaly people?

MATT: This up close and personal, they are
humanoid in build, they have, you know, stand up

upright, they have long tails, ridges across the
head, they're bigger than an actual human and

they're very muscular, and the more you look at
it, you can see that their clothing, they have

tattered cloth and leathers that have been
haphazardly dyed in blood and gore to all be a

very, very deep red color. And they're pretty
uniform across what they are wearing.

LAURA: They're an army.

SAM: Team colors.

TALIESIN: I think you've got that one guy covered
at the moment, so I'll concentrate on the--hmm.

Tough call, tough call. You know what, I'll have a
little fun. I'm going to pull my sword and I'm

going to take a slash at the guy who's involved
with--

MATT: All right, go for it.

TALIESIN: That's 21.

MATT: 21 hits.

TALIESIN: Oh shit, I forgot to use my bonus
action. Can I pop in a quick bonus before that?

MATT: For what?

TALIESIN: Hex him.

MATT: You've already hexed today. You used it in
the battle versus the looters.

TALIESIN: Oh, it's--

SAM: Same day.

TALIESIN: That's right. Still the same hour. It
can only do it once a day, right? That's all

right. That's fine, I can just do a little thing.
So, just add to this, would he be described in

anywhere on his little D&D card as something with
a dragon keyword?

MATT: Nope!

TALIESIN: So I'm just going to do normal damage to
him?

MATT: Yes.

TALIESIN: Okay. So--

MATT: Wyverns, however--

TALIESIN: All right, just checking. I'm going to
do nine points of damage, slashing damage, to him.

MATT: All righty.

TALIESIN: And I'm going to turn to the wyvern, and
take two slashes at the wyvern.

MATT: Go for it.

TALIESIN: First is-- ew. 14?

MATT: 14 hits.

TALIESIN: Wow.

MATT: They're sacks of hit points, but they don't
have lot of armor to them.

TALIESIN: That's 19 plus-- 26 points of damage.

MATT: Nice!

TALIESIN: And second shot-- 13, 24, yeah, that
hits. Ten, 17, 18, 19, 26 points of damage.

MATT: 26 twice in a row. So with this you pull the
sword out, as soon as you see it in the proximity

of the wyvern, the blade itself almost seems to
shimmer with this gleam of green on it, like the

metal almost seems to bend and wave with your
movements. And as you turn back around to slash at

the wyvern, the blade cuts through it like butter,
there's not even resistance, it goes right through

its flesh. With each slash of the longsword, you
can see large chunks of its muscle coming visible

as parts of its body are now being pulled from the
muscle and sinew. It shrieks in pain, you can see

it angrily now starting to get ready to rake at
you pretty heavily. That end your turn?

TALIESIN: That's my turn.

MATT: All righty. Grog, you're up.

TRAVIS: Yeah, I'm going to continue where I
started on, shitfucker out in front of me.

MATT: Okay! (laughs)

TRAVIS: But I would like to go Great Weapon Master
and I would like to use Reckless Attack.

MATT: Go for it.

LAURA: Wow, wow. Wow.

SAM: Reckless.

MATT: Roll your first attack against him.

TRAVIS: That's a 31.

MATT: Roll damage on that.

TRAVIS: 25?

MATT: 25? He fails his save, so you get another
plus one to your strength, and that swing just

cleaves it in two. It goes (whoosh) right through
its midsection, it (gurgles). It tumbles off,

falling to the ground.

LAURA: Oh my god. Grog.

LIAM: Grog is full juicing.

TRAVIS: I told you he'd open up to me!

(laughter)

MATT: You can move in now with your movement and
do your next attack, if you'd like.

TRAVIS: I'll go ahead and take care of that wyvern
that's next to me.

MATT: Go for it, all right, so now you get your
next attack.

TRAVIS: Natural 20.

MATT: Go ahead and roll damage.

LIAM: Does his strength go up to 100 eventually?

MATT: It's double your first dice roll--

TRAVIS: 19-- oh, so the 2d6 was nine, plus five
is--

MATT: So 18.

TRAVIS: Plus 11.

MATT: So 29, plus two additional die rolls.

TRAVIS: Ten.

MATT: Okay. So we're at--

MATT, TRAVIS AND MARISHA: 39.

MATT: And then one more? Because you roll 2d--
it's twice, because of Brutal Critical.

LIAM: Jeez, you got like Tetsuo arm, it's like
five times bigger than it should be.

TRAVIS: Four. Four for those two, do I plus five
to that as well for the--

MATT: Well, plus ten for your-- you already added
that for your--

TRAVIS: Yes, 2d6 plus five on each one and the--

MATT: No, it's just the additional 2d6 each time.

TRAVIS: Yeah.

MATT: So yeah, with that you turn around after
hacking its friend, leaping forward (grunts), foam

at the corner of your mouth, your eyes bloodshot
and angry. You take the blade and sweep it down,

and it plunges itself right into the wound that
Percy had left open with his sword swing, finding

no resistance before it comes all the way to the
hilt in the body of the wyvern, which shrieks for

a moment (screeches) before its breath stops and
its body falls limp.

SAM: Yeah, one down!

MATT: Does make its save, though.

TRAVIS: Oh, yeah, and on Great Weapon Master on a
crit or killing an extra hit, but I guess I--?

MATT: As a bonus action! For the record, going
forward, if you're frenzied raging it doesn't

really give you a benefit, but if you're not, it
does help. So in theory, you could if you wanted

to try and chuck it.

TRAVIS: (laughs) Just throw it? Don't throw it?

MATT: What are you going to do, Grog?

TRAVIS: I'm good, I'm good.

MATT: Ends Grog's turn. All right. Now these guys
both get up, currently no longer on the wyvern.

Did you want to give it another kind of a thought,
if you see it land?

SAM: Get on the wyvern and kill the other one.

MATT: Okay. This guy gets up on the wyvern, grabs
its reins, pulls it forward, and jams it with its

spear as it leads it inward. It runs forward and
is going to take a swing-- It's going to take a

swing with its stinger at the one behind it. It's
confused and figuring out what's-- why is it doing

this, it's more of like-- this might work once.
That is going to be a-- 17, it hits! That's going

to be 11 points of damage, does it make its save?
It does not make its save, that's an additional 24

points of poison damage on that one. So that's 35
points of damage, one wyvern to another. (laughs)

As this guy immediately whips around angrily.

SAM: You have pleased me.

(laughter)

MATT: Both of these guys go charging forward
here.

LAURA: Oh no, Scanlan!

MATT: It's going to pull up its javelin and chuck
it at you, Vex.

LAURA: Me?

MATT: Yeah. That is going to miss you at a 12. It
(swoosh) throws, the javelin arcs past you. This

one over here is going to come forward and it's
going to take a javelin as well out and chuck it

right at you, Grog.

TRAVIS: Heh, you're dead.

MATT: That is a 20 to hit.

TRAVIS: Hits.

MATT: You take ten points of piercing damage,
reduced to five, as you basically (impact)--

TRAVIS: (snapping noise)

MATT: (laughs) Snap it off and grin in its face.

TRAVIS: Let me return that favor in a second.

LIAM: Grog is on god mode.

MARISHA: (laughs) Save game plus.

MATT: (laughs) --now it sees the danger that
you're in, looks at you, sees you hack through the

center of one of the wyverns, intensely looks at
you and begins casting another spell.

TRAVIS: Oh shit.

MATT: Like it is wont to do.

MARISHA: Is it?

TRAVIS: Come on, smart Grog.

MATT: All right. So, Craven Edge, as you're
holding it, all of a sudden the handle becomes

white hot and you immediately take six points of
fire damage just holding it.

SAM: Grip it harder! (groan)

MATT: Fire's biting through. Three attacks against
you, Scanlan.

SAM: Oh, God.

MATT: Currently two of which are flanking you, so
they're going to have advantage on the attacks. So

that's a natural 20 on one of them.

This guy is-- 18. That hits. And then this
guy here without the advantage-- still hits with a 17.

SAM: I'm going to use Cutting Words on the last
guy.

MATT: Okay.

SAM: I'm going to just-- (plays flute badly) to
distract him.

MATT: Okay, go ahead and roll a d10.

SAM: d10. Which one's ten, I never remember. This
one. Nine!

MATT: Okay! So he rolled a 17 plus seven, that
would've been a 24, that brings him to 15, which I

believe misses you. So the last strike, as he
swings towards you, the shrilling tones, it causes

him to reach up and grab one of his lizard-like
ear holes and (snarling) the swing goes wildly

over your head. However, as you duck down, you
look up as you see the shadow come down of two

large clubs that (boom boom) over the head of your
tiny gnomish form. That's going to be-- (groans)

SAM: Oh, that's not a good sound.

MATT: Oh, and they also get bites after this, too.
All right, so you take 12, which would double to

24-- Oh, no, sorry, 12-- 20 points of bludgeoning
damage from one. You take 12 points of damage from

the other. So 32 points of damage total. And
they're both going to attempt to bite you as well,

with advantage.

SAM: A bite with advantage!

MATT: That is a 20 on the first one.

SAM: That's the damage it does?

MATT: That's to hit. And that one's going to --
double 19, so they both hit. So you take another

20 points of damage total of piercing damage as
they both start tearing into your body.

LAURA: 52 points of damage just then?

SAM: (rasping breath)

LAURA: No, Scanlan!

MARISHA: No, you're still up, you're still up! I
thought you said you had 55!

SAM: I did.

LAURA: 52!

MARISHA: It was 52 total.

LAURA: You have three points left.

SAM: Ah! That was close, guys. I saw my mother!
Then I saw myself at math class, failing.

MATT: I need you to make a bunch of concentration
checks here.

SAM: Oh yeah. Okay.

MATT: To maintain control over it, yeah.

SAM: Advantage on concentration checks.

MATT: Yeah, so just roll two at a time.

SAM: Two whats?

MATT: Two d20s.

SAM: Well, I only have one d20.

MATT: Adding your constitution modifier to it.

SAM: How many-- oh, for each thing that--
constitution modifier. Holy God. Okay. I'm

counting both of those, the first one's only 12.

MATT: 12, that'll work, because none of them--
only one of them did 20 damage and it's minimum of

ten, so as long as you get above a ten with each
one, you're fine.

SAM: Okay. So I got to do two more?

MATT: Yeah.

SAM: Yeah, that's 16 plus two.

MATT: Okay. Another one.

SAM: 17 plus two.

MATT: Another one.

SAM: Two plus two.

MATT: You have advantage on these.

SAM: Seven plus two. Nine.

MATT: Nine. Nope.

SAM: No good. No bueno.

MATT: With that, you lose your concentration on
the Domination spell. As that fades--

LAURA: That's okay. The other wyvern is still mad
at the first one, so that's good.

MATT: So that ends their turn. Vex, you're up.

LAURA: Oh man. Okay.

MATT: You see Scanlan being tossed around on the
ground, and then you see streaks of blood in the

air as one of them tears a big chunk out of his
shoulder.

LAURA: Yeah.

MATT: He looks up at you briefly, his eyes
half-open.

LAURA: Scanlan! I got you!

SAM: No, no, I know you did. You shot me on the
last turn, I remember. Yeah, you got me good! You

got me good!

LAURA: I shoot from my Bow of the Sky Sentinel.

MATT: Sky Sentinel, I believe, did you use that
last battle?

LAURA: Fuck.

MATT: I'm pretty sure you did.

LAURA: I did, but I only used my burning thingy
once, so I can do that. Okay, okay, okay, okay,

okay. So I'm going to move my Hunter's Mark to one
of the guys around Scanlan.

MATT: Okay. Do you want to say the most wounded of
them?

LAURA: Yeah, sure.

MATT: That would be--

LAURA: Or the least wounded of them, actually.

MATT: The least wounded would be this one.

LAURA: Okay. And then I'm going to shoot-- I'm
going to shoot arrows.

MATT: All right!

LAURA: All right. I'm going to shoot through my
Blazing Bowstring on that guy and the guy in front

of him.

MATT: Okay. Right there and there?

LAURA: Yeah.

MATT: So Blazing Bowstring, and then regular. Go
for it.

LAURA: Okay. So I forget how to do that. I roll to
attack. Why is this so hard?! Okay, 18!

MATT: 18 hits.

LAURA: Okay, I'm going to roll damage on that one,
which is ten plus my normal eight. 12, 14 plus six

for Hunter's Mark. 20 plus six for sneak attack,
bitch!

LIAM: Did you just call the DM a bitch?

LAURA: No, I was calling that guy a bitch.

SAM: Matt does not deserve that kind of language.

LAURA: 6d6. So that's 25 damage against the first
guy.

MATT: 25 damage? That's just enough. Say goodbye
to him. That sneak attack was just what you

needed, that was the last bit of damage.

LAURA: Yay! Okay, so the second guy is another
18.

MATT: Another 18? That hits.

LAURA: Actually no, that's a 20-whatever. Yeah.
Okay. 14, 15, 16. Do I get sneak attack on him, too?

MATT: Can only sneak attack once per turn.

LAURA: Dang it. So 16 damage against that guy.

MATT: 16 damage, okay. So this arrow-- The first
one hits it in the neck and he gurgles and falls

to the ground and bleeds out on the floor next to
Scanlan. The other one, the arrow strikes it in

the middle of its shoulderblades and it arcs up in
pain, but it's still standing. Though it's having

to really move around with much pain in its face.
That end your turn? You going to stay up there?

LAURA: I'm going to-- yeah.

MATT: Staying up on the rooftop, sniping down.
Good call. That brings us to Scanlan!

SAM: It's my turn?!

LAURA: Take a potion! Heal yourself!

SAM: Oh yeah! If I had a potion, that would be
great! I will do Thunderwave-- Thunderwave at

third level.

MATT: Thunderwave at third level, all righty.

LIAM: Dissention in the ranks.

MATT: (laughs) Okay, so that is 4d8 thunder damage
to all the ones on a failed save. So, their

constitution saves here. Is this through a hand
cone?

SAM: Sure, man.

MATT: Figured-- both fail!

SAM: What is it, 4d8?

MATT: It's 4d8 thunder damage. They are pushed ten
feet away from you.

SAM: Did they all fail? Did they both fail?

MATT: Yes. This pushed this way. This pushed that
way.

SAM: Ten. 17!

MATT: 17 points of damage to each. Okay! They're
blasted backward, barely catching themselves on

their feet. And from the impact, you can see what
little bit of red-colored leather armor they have

on is tattered and destroyed. You can see blood
pouring out of the sides of their earholes where

the thunderous blast possibly burst their
eardrums. And they're both like, shaking their

head. All right.

SAM: Bonus action, I will Healing Word myself--

MATT: (laughing) Okay.

SAM: I can do that at higher levels? Yes?

MATT: Yeah.

SAM: I'll do it at a level four.

MATT: (laughing) Okay.

SAM: And I will sing to myself; sadly,
pathetically, (breathy) I get knocked down, but I

get up again. Ain't never going to keep me down.

(laughter)

MATT: All right! So that is 4d4 plus five healing
to yourself.

SAM: Okay, 4d4 plus five-- That's 14 plus
five.19.

MATT: 19. So you heal yourself 19 hit points. That
ends your turn. Up next, Vax.

LIAM: I'm going to scramble up to the top of the
building that I'm right next to.

MATT: Acrobatics check.

LIAM: Sure. No problem. Yeah, way high. 20-- 33.

MATT: Yeah. You parkour up the side, land on top
of the rooftop. Leap across and you're now at the edge.

LIAM: Is that Percy right there?

MATT: That's Percy right there.

LIAM: Okay. Oh, who's right directly in a row,
away from me? Yeah, I can't tell. It's a bad guy?

MATT: It's a bad guy, bad guy. Bad guy, bad guy,
bad guy.

LIAM: I want to run, actually, and I want to jump
off and land next to Percy. Yeah. I want to run

straight by and I want to stab the dude. I'm going
to run forward, yeah. Stab that guy.

(laughter)

LIAM: Yeah, exactly. That is 20.

MATT: That hits, roll damage.

SAM: Run, run, run. Stab. Run, run, run. Stab.
Those are the two buttons on the Vax video game.

(laughter)

SAM: Run and stab.

LIAM: Nine.

MATT: Nine damage?

LIAM: Yeah.

MATT: (grunt) You shank him in the side and he
tumbles over.

(cheering)

LIAM: Run towards Scanlan, and I want to grapple
him. Hopefully he just takes it. No, not that far.

One square back. Right there! Grab him. And I'm
using my bonus action to dash and then drag him

backward, behind Grog.

MATT: It's an action to grapple someone who would
be against it, are you letting him grapple you?

SAM: Oh, hell yes.

MATT: I'll say for the sake of the--

LIAM: Right, two actions and a bonus action, mix
them around, Matt!

MATT: Yeah, it's fine, because he wants to. You
rush forward, you grab him, and you're dragging

him back this way?

LIAM: And then back-- yeah, right behind Grog, and
I drag him behind Vex and Grog, back by Keyleth.

(airplane noise)

MATT: Okay. I'll say that's about as far as you
get because you have a bit of movement taken away,

even though you are hasted, because he's not too
heavy, but he's still a gnome.

LIAM: Right. Dash-- hasted, I can go very very
far.

SAM: Your hands are so rough and masculine.

LIAM: I spank him on the ass and say, you're
welcome, shorty.

MARISHA: Okay. I'm going to push my way through
the crowd a little bit. Can I have that laser pointer?

LIAM: Yes, you may.

MARISHA: Thank you. Okay. (grandiose voice) And
now with all of the rage, thinking about all--

SAM: "I turn someone into a chicken."

MARISHA: I-- boof! Boof! Boof! I want some
feather-down pillows for our loft. I channel all

of my Fire Ashari ancestors. And I cast my
7th-level Firestorm!

SAM: Oh god, we're all going to die.

MARISHA: So as I concentrate, enraged at the sight
of dragons, I have ten--

SAM: (whispers) Did you get me away from-- because
I--

MARISHA: Yes, you're fine. You're fine. No, he
didn't get you away because he knew this was

happening, it just happened to work out. So ten
ten-foot cubes-- They all have to be connected.

Exactly, I'm going to start here and I'll work my
way over. They're ten-foot-- remember, they're

ten-foot. But they're attached. So they're bigger
than that.

MATT: Three-- well, they're ten foot by ten foot,
which is about this size.

MARISHA: Okay, okay.

MATT: Right, so it's one, two, three, four, five,
six, seven, eight, nine, ten.

MARISHA: Oh, okay, yeah, get the wyvern.

MATT: You can get all of them there.

LAURA: Oh my god, that guy is going to be so--

LIAM: Grog's going to bite his head off.

MATT: What's the DC on this?

MARISHA: They have to make a dex saving throw or
they take--

MATT: Right, right, but what's your DC on it?

MARISHA: Oh, my spell DC? 19.

MATT: Fail, fail, fail, they're not very dextrous.
Fail, fail, fail-- Fail! They all fail.

(cheering)

MATT: So that's 7d10 fire damage to each of them.

SAM: Why don't you use that all the time!?

MARISHA: I just got it! I just got it when I
leveled.

LIAM: You've got to be careful with friendly fire,
and we're all out of the way.

MARISHA: So a giant, fiery chasm splits open.

MATT: The ground bursts open, rocks being torn
asunder as giant columns of flame-- boof, boof,

boof, boof, boof-- out of the ground, completely
engulfing each one of them in this sudden

conflagration of red and orange and yellow flames
and molten magma.

MARISHA: 24. 24, that was four-- 24, that's good,
so 27, 36, 30-- 42 points of fire damage.

(clapping)

LIAM: Phew. Gingers, man. Gingers.

MARISHA: My hands light up.

MATT: Each one of the lizardfolk-type creatures in
the flames, you see them shriek for a second

before their forms are turned to ash in these
blasts of fire, each sub-woofer-like, guttural

impact as the ground cracks open like (explosion
noise) scatter amongst--

MARISHA: So they explode? Popcorn?

MATT: Yeah, each one of the wyverns themselves,
you can see the flames emerge around them, and as

it recedes they have burn scars and their flesh is
cracked and peeled against the fire wounds that

now tear across the front of their body. They're
all looking fairly hurt by that.

MARISHA: And then, I take a bow.

(laughter)

MARISHA: And I'm-- exhausted a little bit, little
single tear as I think of my ancestors-- And

that's it.

MATT: All right, end of your turn. Percy, you're
up.

TALIESIN: All right. I'm going to start walking
towards that wyvern at the bottom there-- Yeah,

that way, I'm not going to get quite close enough
to get into the reach of that jerk over there--

MATT: So you can go here.

TALIESIN: Yeah. While I'm walking by him, though,
I'm going to nail-- I don't even know if I'm

really going to-- going to shoot him three times
while I'm walking by, because that's funny. With

Sharpshooter.

MATT: Okay. So first shot against them?

TALIESIN: It would be seven, 19.

MATT: 19 hits. Go ahead and roll damage on him.

TALIESIN: That's-- 1d10, what did I do with my
1d10s, because I wasn't thinking-- here we go.

That's 26 points of damage.

MATT: (explosion noise) You take his head right
off as you walk by, without even looking.

(explosion noise, pained squawk) And you can see
the lower jaw gets blown off and it falls to the

back on the ground.

TALIESIN: Since I've got two more shots, I'm going
to start shooting at that one dragon-- that

wyvern, as I'm--

MATT: Right there? Go for it. Two shots on the
wyvern.

TALIESIN: Sharpshooter again.

MATT: All right.

SAM: Pew!

TALIESIN: That's a nine, yay! So that's 16?

MATT: 16 hits.

TALIESIN: And I'll roll the second one, just to
have it. That's nine. Nah, nine'll miss.

Thankfully will not-- that's great. 26 points of
damage.

MATT: All righty. This one (explosion noise) the
bullet hits inside of its body, you can see a

little (splurting noise) of blood squirt out--

TALIESIN: And I'll get as close as I can get to
him in this round, also, I'm going to spend my

movement walking straight towards him.

MATT: (heavy walking noises) That's the rest of it
there. Okay. That's your turn. Grog, you're up.

TRAVIS: Oh! Yeah! I leave one of those to you
guys, and I run at the two wyverns on the left.

MATT: Getting in the middle of the fray? Against
them both?

TRAVIS: Yeah, against them both!

MATT: There you go! Grog charges, and they're
both-- There you go!

TRAVIS: Here's hoping these puppies go-- That's
24?

MATT: 24 on the more wounded one?

TRAVIS: Yeah.

MATT: All right, that hits him.

TRAVIS: Can I swing at the other guy?

MATT: If you want to.

TRAVIS: Yeah, let's divvy it up, I don't want to
give anybody too much love. Five, four, 26?

MATT: Hits, so roll damage on each.

TRAVIS: 11, 22, 32?

MATT: They're both Great Weapon Master? Okay, 32
damage?

TRAVIS: 32 on the first.

MATT: First one, you carve through him with the
blade (whump).

LAURA: Nice.

MATT: Makes his save.

TRAVIS: Five, ten, 21, 31, 31.

MATT: 31 damage? Okay. This one you (whoosh)
streak across with Craven Edge. Makes its save.

You leave a large wound across the front of its
jaw and it (choking noise). However, you did kill

one, so you do get to use your bonus action for an
attack because of your Great Weapon Master feat.

TRAVIS: Do I have to roll for the hit?

MATT: Yes.

TRAVIS: That's 31?

MATT: With the minus five?

TRAVIS: Sorry! No, no, never mind, sorry, what's
31 minus five?

LIAM and TALIESIN: 26.

MATT: Hits, yeah, you're good.

TRAVIS: Okay. Three, seven, 12, 30. Oh, 22, 32.

LIAM: He's covered in ichor.

MATT: 32. This time (whoosh) you swipe through the
second time with the blade, this time carving off

part of its wing, and you see that one of the
wings is half-curled and keeping up to the side,

it's hobbling around its legs, looking like it's
on death's door, but still keeping itself. All

right, is that the end of your turn?

TRAVIS: That's it.

MATT: All right, (wyvern noise) in there, and this
one stays there and is going to unleash upon you,

Grog. It's going to bite and tail attack against
each of you with the stinger against you, Grog.

That is a 21 to hit?

TRAVIS: Hits.

MATT: And natural 20 on the stinger, okay.

TRAVIS: Well, I have resistance against poison, so
that helps.

MATT: That does help, actually, so it'll just do
regular poison damage against you. So you take 11

points of piercing damage, reduced to six from the
bite. And the stinger deals-- That's 12 points of

piercing damage, reduced to six as well.

TRAVIS: Okay.

MATT: The stinger, however, I need you
to make a constitution saving throw.

TRAVIS: All right. Ugh, 12.

MATT: That's a failure. Actually, it would have
been an additional 12, because it was a critical

hit on the pierce, so you take 12-- so a total of
18 damage so far, and then, as part of the poison,

you take 48 points of poison damage. Because you
have resistance, that is reduced to 24.

SAM: Hey! That's nice!

MATT: All right, you have poison resistance from
the belt, right? Yes. All right, so there you go.

The other one coming up against you, Percy,
strikes with its bite. That is going to be a 20-- 16?

TALIESIN: 16 misses.

MATT: 16 misses. That is going to be a 22 for the
stinger.

TALIESIN: Stinger hits.

MATT: Okay, stinger hits you for six plus four,
ten points of piercing damage. I need you to make

a constitution saving throw.

TALIESIN: Constitution saving throw. 20.

MATT: 20, you succeed. No poison.

TALIESIN: So I took ten points of--?

MATT: Piercing damage. Correct. All right, it's
looking rough on both their ends. They're just

fighting to the end at this point. All right, that
ends their turn. Vex, you're up.

LAURA: I'm going to cast Hunter's Mark on the one
fighting--

MATT: Moving it over?

LAURA: Yeah. Percy.

MATT: All right.

LAURA: And I'm going to first attack the one
fighting Grog.

MATT: Okay.

LAURA: 16?

MATT: 16-- does hit, yeah.

LAURA: Yes! Okay.

MATT: Don't have a whole lot of armor. They just
got a lot of hit points.

LAURA: 17 plus sneak attack-- 18.

MATT: 18. So Grog, as you're thrashing about with
the blade at this creature, eager to get that

final hit, you reach back with Craven Edge before
an arrow (impact) into its face and it

(burble, thump) collapses to the ground.

TRAVIS: Aw!

(laughter)

LAURA: And I shift my attention over to the one
fighting Percy!

MATT: All right.

LAURA: And that is 30, no, 28?

MATT: 28 hits, go ahead and roll damage with the
extra d6 for Hunter's Mark.

LAURA: Nine, ten, 11-- Where's my dex? 17.

MATT: Gotcha. 17 points of damage. second you
(whoosh) pull out the second arrow, (whoosh)

release it and it strikes the side of its body,
and (pained squawk) it still seems to be standing.

It hurt it, but didn't leave it in any dire
straits yet. That ends your turn, are you staying

where you are?

LAURA: I'm staying where I am!

MATT: Okay, Scanlan, you're up.

LAURA: Actually, I'm going to jump off the roof
and rush over to Scanlan.

MATT: Okay. So leaping off, make an acrobatics
check.

LAURA: 24?

MATT: 24-- Scanlan, at the start of your turn, as
you're getting ready, all of a sudden (impact) in

front of you, spooking you momentarily, you see
Vex lands on her feet and looks down at you with a

look of concern and wanting to make sure you're
okay.

SAM: Oh, hi, thanks for checking on me. Could you
move for a second? I'm going to kill this thing.

(laughter)

SAM: Oh, so I'll-- I can't do much, because I'm
far away and I don't want to kill Percy--

TALIESIN: It's not going to live through me
anyway.

SAM: That's true. I will Wand of Magic Missiles
him.

MATT: Okay, using how many--

SAM: I'll use six of my seven.

MATT: Oof! All righty. So go ahead and roll proper
damage on that.

SAM: Okay, the first, okay, so is that 6d4 plus
one?

MATT: This would be Magic Missile, cast at level
six, technically, I'm pretty sure--

SAM: Well, it's weird, because my--

MATT: So it would be-- it would be 6d6 plus six.

SAM: 6d6 plus six?

MATT: Oh, I'm sorry. 6d4 plus six. Bleah.

TRAVIS: (chuckles) Heh, math.

MATT: Hey.

SAM: Sorry, it's close.

LAURA: Yeah.

SAM: One more? 12 plus what? Six? 12 plus six.
18.

MATT: 18? Okay. The missiles (impact noises)
slamming into the side, arcing off and swirling

around Percy to hit it, anime-missile-streak
style, hitting it from all sides, you can see

chunks of its body being blown off from the force
of the arcane casting. It still stands, though it

is dripping from multiple wounds and is having a
hard time.

TALIESIN: I got this.

MATT: Ending your turn, Scanlan?

SAM: I think so, I mean, I'm okay. I'll heal
myself a little bit more with another level one

Healing Word.

MATT: Go for it, take your d4 plus five.

SAM: Okay. Seven more points-- yay!

MATT: You're up.

LIAM: I'm going to start walking towards it and
dagger, and dagger, and dagger.

MATT: Go for it.

LIAM: First is 20.

MATT: 20 hits.

LIAM: Second is 23.

MATT: Hits.

LIAM: Third is a 23.

MATT: Hits.

LIAM: So, we get--

MATT: This is Sneak Attack.

LIAM: Ten for the fir-- Sneak Attack? Is it near
something?

MATT: Percy is in melee range with it.

LIAM: Okay, so the first is ten plus-- wah!

LAURA: Oh no, dice down!

LIAM: Ten plus 16, 23, (growling) 29, 36, 39, 41
for the first dagger.

MATT: How do you want to do this?

(cheering)

LIAM: I will aim for its open mouth as it's going
"huah." And pin its tongue into the back of its skull.

MATT: As you step forward, your first dagger, you
pull it out and aim it and over-the-hand toss it

as it rears back, ready to bring its fangs out to
sink down into Percy, the dagger vanishes into its

throat, and you see its face go lax for a second.
(wet coughs) It begins trying to cough, and as it

does, you can see bits of blood and gore from its
throat being hawked across the ground. It takes a

few steps. Percy steps out of the way as it heads
towards you before it rears back and

(choking, thump) and collapses onto the ground. You can see
the blade still sticking out the back of its head,

towards the back of its throat, before it appears
at the side of your belt.

SAM: Sorry I made a noise, guys, sorry.

LAURA: Next time, stealth. We should get inside.

TRAVIS: Yeah.

LAURA: We should hide.

TALIESIN: We should-- we should take what we can
and we should also hide the bodies.

LAURA: Good call.

TALIESIN: Let's bring everything inside.

MARISHA: I go down to the wyverns and I start
going for those stingers.

MATT: Okay.

LAURA: If you can do this quickly, Keyleth,
because we need to hide these bodies.

MATT: It's going to take you a while to do it.

LIAM: Can I assist with my Keen Dagger, and help
her under her instruction?

LAURA: Let's get them inside.

LIAM: We're going to drag the wyverns indoors?

TALIESIN: Drag everything indoors.

SAM: Wait, wait, wait-- these stingers are on the
end of tails?

LIAM and TALIESIN: Yeah.

SAM: Grog, can you chop off their tails and we'll
take the tails with us?

LAURA: No, we've got to get the wyverns inside. If
anything flying overhead sees these bodies, they

know something's been attacked.

SAM: Aren't half of them burned to a crisp
anyway?

TALIESIN: Not crisped, just scorched.

MARISHA: There's some ash. I go ahead and I do a
cantrip, Gust, and start spreading out the ash.

MATT: Okay. It still looks like someone emptied a
bunch of fireplace ash pits into the center of the

walkway where there once were lizardfolk.

LAURA: I'll have the bag.

TRAVIS: What for?

LAURA: Just the Dust of Tracelessness.

SAM: I give us cover. I'll blow my Horn of Fog.

LAURA: I start putting the Dust of Tracelessness
down on the ground so it looks like

nobody's been here.

MATT: Low fog sound as Scanlan blows the horn. Fog
fills the vicinity and you guys begin tossing Dust

of Tracelessness around--

TRAVIS: I go grab the humanoid figures and I throw
two over my shoulders and then I get one in each

hand and I start dragging them toward a door?

TALIESIN: Any-- inside. Just inside.

TRAVIS: To an "any inside."

LIAM: I'll get the door for you. (door creaks)

MATT: All right, you guys pretty quickly manage to
move what you can out of the way, we'll say over

the next few minutes the fog is there. Under that
cover, you begin to drag the wyvern bodies into

the alleyway, into the shadows. If you want to go
ahead and make some checks here to go ahead and

see if you can harvest.

MARISHA: Yeah, okay, let's do different ones.
Okay, so first one, I'll definitely take

advantage, so, since I have advantage-- not that
much better-- 14. The first one.

LIAM: Would it help if I gave her my Keen Dagger
for the rest of it?

MATT: I would say, given the circumstance, all it
would do would offer her advantage, which she

already has, so it wouldn't make much difference.
So the first one, it's been a little too damaged

in battle and you aren't able to really draw any
poison from the stinger for the first one-- what's

the second one?

MARISHA: Second one, 15 total.

MATT: 15's what you needed. You manage to extract
just enough of the wyvern stinger poison for

possibly a single dose, so you can mark down a
dose of wyvern poison.

MARISHA: Okay, I'll give it to-- I'll give that to
Vax. Do you have poison? Or do you-- Vax or Vex--

I give it to one of the twins. Here, twins. You
fight over it. Fight over it.

LAURA: Is it good for you?

LIAM: Yeah.

MARISHA: Two more, maybe I can-- 14-- Okay, well,
the second one I rolled a 25.

MATT: Okay, so that's a second dose of wyvern
poison.

MARISHA: That I give to Vex. Last one-- I'll take
that 15, with-- 26.

MATT: All right, so you have three doses of wyvern
poison that you've managed to harvest from these

creatures; you guys can distribute as you see
fit.

TALIESIN: Anything else to loot from these
schmuckuses?

MATT: They don't carry much gold, and what they
have, you envision, probably went to the entity

that rules Emon. And as you're looking over the
bodies of the few of the lizard men here, you see

they didn't just wander their way in here. And you
remember mention from Allura before that there

were lizardfolk worshipers of Thordak years ago.
Apparently, once the city's been taken, Thordak

has, or at least the worshipers of Thordak are
also moving in. So, taking this time to harvest

poisons, looking over the bodies, you can see the
consistency between their red, crimson-dyed

leather materials, and you get the sensation that
while this was a small skirmish group, this is

probably the new policing state of Emon. So. With
that, we'll take a quick break for the restroom.

We'll pick up here in just a few minutes, guys, if
you want to hang tight.

And we'll see you here shortly.

Jumping back in-- As the party re-gathers
themselves after the battle with these lizardfolk

and the wyverns in the center of the city of Emon,
you slowly make your way back through the streets

towards the north, passing through Abdar's
Promenade, finding the building that was

previously brought to your attention thanks to
Garthok.

LAURA: Should we take a short rest, though, before
we head down to the Clasp? Because some of us have

taken some hits--

TALIESIN: We'll take a breath in the--

LAURA: Okay. Before we head down?

TALIESIN: Yeah. In the basement.

MATT: So you guys find the building that was
brought to your attention; you head down into the

same cellar, keeping tabs on the external trap
that was brought to your attention by Garthok last

time. You make your way inside. There's the same
barrel in the far corner; you pull the top off and

there, indeed, is a ladder that leads down
underground.

LAURA: This is why I left Trinket. Because he
wouldn't have been able to come down here anyway.

Just so you know.

TRAVIS: Hey, search that shit, Vax.

MARISHA: He's very claustrophobic.

LIAM: So we've just got ladder down. That's it?

MARISHA: Well, hang on, let's heal up. I need to
hit dice it up as well.

LIAM: Well, I'm fine, so while everybody is--

TRAVIS: I would not like to take a short rest.

LAURA: Oh.

TRAVIS: I lose all my Fancy Feast if I do.

LIAM: Just do some push-ups. Just do some push-ups
while I check this ladder out. So I'm going to

check for any traps on this ladder or anything.

TRAVIS: Oh, yeah yeah yeah! Can she heal me
instead?

LAURA: I'll heal you. I'm going to heal you--

LIAM: 23.

MATT: Okay. Looking at the barrel, there are no
traps currently set, and it's not locked. The only

traps were on the outside of the cellar, from what
you knew previously, and as that mechanism had

already been shown to you by Garthok, so that was
easily disabled.

LIAM: I'm not going to go crazy, I'm just going to
go to the bottom of the ladder-- in I go.

MATT: Okay. So while you guys are taking a rest--

LIAM: 30 for stealth.

MATT: You drop down the ladder. As you head down
what probably comes to about 15, 20 or so feet

into pitch black-- it's completely dark down
there. Do you have any light source, or do you

want to--

LIAM: I have a Flame Tongue Dagger.

MATT: Okay, so you pull the Flame Tongue Dagger.
It puts out a very, very low candlelight, opens up

the vicinity to you as your feet splash down into
very, very shallow, a couple inches, shallow

water. Looking around you, you are in a
subterranean sewer system. The smell hits you as

you hit the bottom of it. This is the entire
underbelly of Emon, and there is the slight sound

of trickling water that's rushing through this
tunnel you're currently standing in. The ladder

drops close to about a foot above the floor before
it comes to a complete stop. Looking to your

right, it descends a little further down on that
side, and you can hear-- make a perception check.

LIAM: 22.

MATT: Okay. To the right of you, what should be the
eastern tunnel, you can hear the sound of

trickling water growing louder; it's almost like
this stream meets another. As you listen to the

left, and the stench is pretty rough in this part,
to the left you can see in the tunnel is a very,

very faint dim, yellow light that is shifting ever
so slightly in the distance as it curves around

out of view. It is level to where you are now,
actually, slight incline for a little bit.

LIAM: (quietly) Vex'ahlia-- There is a long tunnel
down here and there is a bit of faint light. I

have Percy's fancy rock; I am not planning on
doing anything crazy, but I think I should--

LAURA: You don't have the-- the rock doesn't work
until we sleep. You don't have anything.

LIAM: Well, technically I do still have it.
Regardless, I should go ahead and, if there's

anyone to talk to, I should talk-- I'm not going
to go yet, I'm going to wait 'til you guys have

rested, and come down to-- it's pitch-black down
here, I'm not running ahead. I'm better at this

shit than you and the rest are, so take a rest,
I'm going to sit here--

LAURA: You're better at talking than the rest of
us are?

LIAM: Sometimes, Stubby, yes.

LAURA: How will I know if you get into trouble,
and your hands are tied--

SAM: Do you need me to come?

LAURA: We can all hear you.

(laughter)

LIAM: Stubby, could you come down here for me?

MARISHA: Hi, Vax.

LAURA: Hold on just a moment. Mind the gap.

MATT: You splash down into the sewer system.

LAURA: Eugh, fuck, it smells down here.

LIAM: Yeah.

LAURA: Do I have to step in the water?

LIAM: Probably. Come here.

LAURA: Yes?

LIAM: All right so, before all these guys-- you
were being stalked by someone, I don't know for

what reason, I don't know who the person was, I
don't know what they wanted with you.

LAURA: Stalked?

LIAM: Someone wanted you, and I don't know who.
The Clasp was going to get you for them, and I

stopped that from happening. I followed you one
night, or rather, followed this person following

you, and met the Clasp. And I made an exchange for
your life.

LAURA: What?

LIAM: I went and got someone else. And--

LAURA: And said it was me? No--

LIAM: Not immediately. You're almost on it. They
told me to get a body, I got a body. A living

body. A child rapist. And brought him to the
Clasp, and they brought out a stick-- really it

was made of human tongues.

LAURA: A stick. Of human tongues.

LIAM: Yes. They touched it, and he turned into
you.

LAURA: What the fuck?

LIAM: And they took that guy. For whatever. And in
exchange for your life, I have this, and they are

allowed to call on me when they want. So, I know
that we've run in and out a couple of times, but

we're going in. You can talk my fucking ear off in
a moment, all right? Just shut up for a second. We

are going to go in and try to form some sort of
alliance or working partnership, this is different

than running in, smashing some shit and running
out, all right? So keep the cloak up, hang back,

don't say a lot, and you can talk my ear off
later.

LAURA: Okay, I will do that, I want to know that
tongue guy, that looks like me-- is he dead or is

he alive now? They gave him to some stalker, some
stalker!

LIAM: I don't know why you were wanted, I don't
know what it was about, all I knew is that they

were going to take you away and I wasn't going to
let that happen and I took some fucking piece of

shit and traded him in.

LAURA: So there could be at this moment in time
another person that looks just like me parading

around the world?

LIAM: Well, if I had to wager on it, I'd say that
he's in a dungeon in a rubber suit, but I don't

know where, no.

LAURA: Well, thank you. For, you know, doing
that-- (nervous laugh)

LIAM: I never told you because it's creepy as
fuck.

LAURA: Was it the Clasp here, was it the Clasp in
Westruun?

LIAM: It was in Westruun.

LAURA: Well, these guys probably don't know me.

LIAM: Probably? Probably.

LAURA: I'll put my hood up--

LIAM: Stay at the back.

LAURA: I would like to find out who the guy was
that wanted me, though. That's kind of weird.

Thank you. For everything. thank you. You always
have my back and I know it.

LIAM: Yeah.

LAURA: And for that, I won't say very much.

LIAM: You do you, Vex'ahlia.

LAURA: Everyone can come down.

MATT: So as you finish your short rest, you all
progressively find your way down the ladder and to

the subterranean sewer system. The choice is to
travel to the east or western side of the tunnel.

LIAM: Sounds like there's, I don't know, drainage
or something coming from slightly up in that

direction.

LAURA: I'm guessing towards the light, is where
they are. Scanlan?

SAM: Oi?

LAURA: Do you have something that can make
disguises? Don't you have like, not the mustache,

but something that can really change my looks?

SAM: How do you know I'm Scanlan? I could be in
disguise, but yes I do.

LAURA: Could I use that?

SAM: You would have to attune it to yourself-- is
that right?

LAURA: Oh, it takes like a little bit?

SAM: Oh no no no, requires attunement. What do you
think?

LIAM: Well, that's not a bad idea, but it means
we've got to sit in this stank.

SAM: I can instantly make us, with Seeming, I can
instantly make us all look different.

Or just you.

LAURA: Or just me. How about just me? I've got a
question, though. Here's the thing: if you think

that they know what I look like, don't you think
they know what you look like? Because you

look just like me. So what difference does it make
if I'm there or not?

LIAM: I don't know if the person who wanted you
was part of the Clasp. I don't know who it was.

It's parading you around in front of the people
who made an illicit deal with me.

LAURA: All right, all right, all right. Seeming,
how about that?

LIAM: It could be fine. I don't know.

LAURA: Okay! Seeming?

SAM: Yeah, no--

LAURA: Please?

SAM: (smarmily) It's pretty high-level stuff--

LAURA: Scanlan, what if I heal you?

SAM: What if I-- ooh! I cast Minor Illusion and
give her a moustache. What about that? Is that

pretty good?

MATT: A fancy, fancy moustache that you cannot
wipe off your face!

TRAVIS: Hey, that's very handsome.

LIAM: I don't think that's going to be enough.
It's not quite enough for our purposes.

SAM: All right, I dispel it.

LAURA: How about a limerick as payment, Scanlan?

SAM: A limerick for you?

LAURA: For you.

SAM: Oh! You're going to give me a limerick?

LAURA: I'll give you a limerick. Hold on. I've
been preparing it--

LIAM: She's multiclassing a third time.

LAURA: Have you heard tale of Scanlan the Bard? /
Or Burt Reynolds, if you look at his card.

Always tries to get laid / Sometimes with ladies
he made!

But I still respect him, 'cause rhyming is hard.

(laughter, cheering)

SAM: That was excellent.

LIAM: Second firestorm of the night.

TRAVIS: Where's the extinguisher?

MATT: I will give you a d6 inspiration dice for
that.

LAURA: Yay!

SAM: Wait-- me or her?

MATT: Her.

SAM: Wow. That's impressive. Here's the hat. You
can use it--

LAURA: Oh, thanks, Scanlan.

SAM: In about 20 minutes you'll be able to use
it.

LAURA: I take off my circlet, I guess, and I put
on the hat.

LIAM: How 'bout that smell, everyone? Eh?

MARISHA: Did you live in this?

LIAM: I never lived--

MARISHA: Did you deal with this!? Oh, oh, that's
good.

LIAM: I'm, like, a distant cousin to all this.

(laughter)

MATT: In the time it takes for you to take the Hat
of Disguise and go ahead and attune to that, you

guys are now prepared. What path would you like to
take?

SAM: Towards the sounds, yes?

MATT: Well, you have the sound of water rushing to
the right, in the darkness, and you have the

sound, or, yeah, the view of slight moving light
to the left.

LIAM: But did you say, on the right, is it going
down, or is it coming down?

MATT: The water is trickling downward; the water
continues sloping downward this way. The opposite

direction is where the light is. The little bit of
light you see in the distance.

TALIESIN: I say we follow the water.

LIAM: Follow the water down or follow the light?

MARISHA: Follow the water towards the light.
Right?

TRAVIS: Jesus, what the fuck are we doing here?

LIAM: This is like the Underdark again.

SAM: I abstain.

LAURA: Let's go towards--

MARISHA: Towards the light.

TALIESIN: I'll do whatever they say.

MARISHA: Are we going towards the light or towards
the rushing water?

TRAVIS: Light.

MARISHA: All who vote "light," say "aye."

TALIESIN, LAURA and TRAVIS: Aye.

MARISHA: All who vote "water," say "aye."

TALIESIN: Aye.

MARISHA: To the light.

MATT: So you guys head-- left, or--

LIAM: Is there any-- I'm sorry, one last question.
Is there any Thieves' Cant on the walls at all?

MATT: Make a perception check.

LAURA: Can I look, too?

MATT: You know what, yes, you can.

SAM: With inspiration.

TRAVIS: Is there any poo on the floor?

LIAM: 31.

LAURA: Oh, he doesn't need my help.

MATT: Looking along the walls, you start heading
in that direction, you do see a few markings that

basically say 'sanctuary' in Thieves' Cant, in the
direction of the light.

LIAM: All right. Confirmed.

MATT: You guys continue onward?

LIAM: Yeah, I'll lead the way. Yeah, we sat here
for 20 minutes in the stank.

MATT: Yes. (clears throat) So, you guys continue
forward up that tunnel. Eventually, as it curves

around, the light-- you can see-- it's shifting,
because it appears to be a distant fire light that

is the source in this vicinity, and as you turn
the corner, as the tunnel slowly curves around, it

opens up into a large central sewer chamber,
though most of it is dry, and you can see there is

a large mound of dirt in the center that seems to
rise above most of the water that has collected

along the ceiling, and there are a series of
platforms constructed out of wooden scaffolding at

different levels all throughout this chamber. Some
of it looks a little rickety, some of it looks

very old, but various states of moisture rot.

(offscreen sneeze)

MATT: You hear a sneeze from the distance from one
of the--

(laughter)

MATT: As you look and see a series of small
bonfires throughout the room that are currently

lit and surrounded by figures. You see a
ramshackle tent city, and/or a series of small,

wooden hovels that have constructed here. You see
a number of figures that are huddled around these

bonfires: cloaks, hoods up, generally keeping warm
in what is a relatively cold, subterranean area.

You guys, glancing over here, as you're first
looking, and you can see a few of them appear to

be laid up and hurt, and there appear to be at
least a few individuals that are heavily bandaged

or have slings on. As you guys step into the room,
not being very stealthy in your arrival--

LIAM: We could have been, but I use a bit of sign
language from the Cant, and let them know that I'm

part of the Clasp?

MATT: Okay. A few of them stand up, hands on the
side of their hilt, and stop there for a second

before one individual steps out of the shadows and
puts his hand up, putting it down. You recognize

this to be Garthok.

SAM: Garthok!

MATT: He says, "Don't worry, they're with me. I'm
glad you made it. It had been a while. I was

"afraid maybe you wouldn't come."

SAM: We got held up by some wyverns. I almost
died, it was crazy. We're here now.

MATT: "It sounds like it. I'm sorry to hear it."

SAM: Hey. It's all right.

MATR: "I'm glad you stayed alive." And as he
starts to talk, the group of individuals standing

about ten feet behind him separate as another
figure pushes past them. Pulling the hood back,

you can see a man about six feet in height,
average human height, long, blond hair that trails

past the middle of his back over a dark grey
cloak. Fine features at one time; he looks older,

you can see the weathering in his face and the
various wrinkles and lines from years and years of

living in this atmosphere.

LIAM: You said "human", right?

MATT: Human, yes. He has a red-tinted monocle over
one eye.

SAM: Ooh! I like him already.

MATT: As he steps forward, the rest of the Clasp
put their hands off to the side of their weapons.

He pushes aside Garthok to the rest of you and
says: "So, you are the ones called Vox Machina, am

"I correct in this assumption?"

SAM: Yes, you are.

MATT: "Hmm! Trusted of Uriel, executors of Modeth
the Traitor. One among you is a member as well,

"I'm told."

LIAM: I step forward.

MATT: "Then you are welcome here. I am Spireling
Shenn--"

SAM: (whispers) Spireling Shenn?

MARISHA: (murmurs) He's a Spireling!

MATT: "Master of networks and information--"

SAM and MARISHA: Ooh!

MATT: "--of the Clasp of Emon. Excuse the mess, we
lost a portion of our territory and are currently

"caught in mid-adaptation. So, what can I do for
you?"

LIAM: Well, you know who we are.

MATT: "And you know who I am, now."

LIAM: Yes. And you know my spotty track record
with the Clasp. But that's all past now. The

city's in ruins. You're looking at the right hand
of Uriel.

MATT: "Uriel is no longer with us. You are a hand
to nothing."

LIAM: Of course. We're looking for what to do next
with this city. I don't think any of us wish to be

the pets of the beast that's now roosting in the heart
of Emon.

MATT: (chuckles) "No, that does not do any of us
any good. Business has ground to a halt, and we've

"lost a few good patrons in this unfortunate
circumstance. We lost our entire northern tunnel

"structure as soon as the creature attacked the
Cloudtop District."

LIAM: Well, I'll be honest, our first thought was
to flee this city.

MATT: "Safer."

LIAM: But before we make that decision-- yes, it
is-- we know that you're the next best thing to a

government in Emon.

MATT: "Hmm."

LIAM: And we want to know what's left behind.

MATT: "Well, we're seeing to our own. We're going
to see how many of our allies still lie within the

"city. Going to reach out to our friends across
Tal'Dorei and see how much of a network we still

"stand to keep. Then we call in a few debts, reach
out to some friends and, ah, we see if we can find

"some way to supplant this red thing."

LIAM: Can I insight check?

MATT: Go for it.

LIAM: Not good. No. Nine.

SAM: Nine, you said?

LIAM: Nine. The plan now is to lay low and hide?

MATT: "Well, for now, I have a number of
operatives topside who are currently trying to get

"as much information on the red one as possible.
The piles of wealth are growing, and it looks like

"the beast is building a damn home out of the
district."

TALIESIN: The city's going to need a black
market.

MATT: "Oh, I am aware, and we are preparing for
that. However, it's still fairly fresh, and

"individuals aren't willing to release any coin
when all of it goes to the pouches of the thing

"that sits on us. Word has gotten back that
Westruun was also hit rather hard in the night.

"And these creatures have continued eastward ever
since-- no further word on their whereabouts. So

"we're put in a reactionary position, which I
loathe. We're used to being ahead of the rest of

"the curve."

TALIESIN: Well, here's where we could help each
other.

MATT: "It would appear that could be a
possibility."

TALIESIN: We need this city to stay alive. We need
the citizenry to be fed, and we need people to

know where they're going to get their medicine and
when they're going to get their food. We

understand it's going to be tricky. We need
information, we need spies, we need to know what's

happening in the city, and you need people like us
to stay out of your way.

MATT: "That seems like a fairly top-heavy trade in
our direction, if you ask me. There are many ways

"to get people out of our way."

TALIESIN: There are ways that we can benefit each
other.

MATT: "I would love to hear it."

SAM: (whispers) I would, too.

TALIESIN: We have safe haven-- and please, by the
way, stop me if you feel I'm being too broad.

SAM: No, go for it.

TALIESIN: We have our keep that is untouched by
the dragon's attack-- we have a safe haven.

MATT: "Hmm. How is this keep accessed?"

LIAM: We can get to that.

TALIESIN: There are-- options.

LIAM: We also have strong connections to
Whitestone.

LAURA: And Vasselheim.

SAM: And to The Slayer's Take-- that's what
they're called, right? Yes? There could be a

formidable force that could come to protect the
city or drive out the dragons.

LIAM: We're proposing a short-term solution-- you
want to get back to a position where you can

grease the wheels and make money. That's not going
to happen anytime soon. But you can't take care of

these beasts on your own. And neither can
Whitestone, neither can we.

TALIESIN: But it is very likely that we will be
the thing that is dropped upon it from a great

height, and the most cooperation we can get,
getting into a position of power over this beast,

the happier we'll all be.

MATT: "Hmm. Let's say we do this, let's say we go
forward with this alliance. You get out of our

"way, you promise resources from Whitestone,
perhaps? They have quite a few unique

"contributions they could make. The Slayer's Take--
I have not had many dealings across the Ozmit Sea,

"but are you referring to, ah, Vasselheim?"

SAM: Indeed. They are a mighty force.

MATT: "Now, that is a tough nut to crack, that
city. If you're connected in Vasselheim, perhaps

"we can talk."

LAURA: There's no guarantees you'll be able to get
in anywhere.

MATT: "There's no guarantees we'll be able to
provide food or medicine-- it's dangerous times,

"my dear."

LAURA: It is. But the sooner these dragons are
defeated, the sooner business can get back to usual.

MATT: "Of course."

LAURA: Ow. I mean-- (fake coughs) eh.

SAM: I know I'm getting a bit ahead of ourselves,
but once the dragons are gone and the city's

returned to normalcy, what is your ultimate goal?
To hold power or to remain in the underbelly?

MATT: "All the real power lies in the underbelly,
my friend. I have a proposition for you, then. We

"will do this. We have many channels and secret
tunnels throughout the city, and we could very

"easily deliver food, medicine, shelter, even, to
the wired and poor and downtrodden folk of this

"town, be the subterranean heroes of Emon. Out of
the goodness of our hearts, of course. However,

"once this creature is toppled, and the city is
brought toward, I gather you would have the ear

"of whoever comes to power in this city."

SAM: We may very well be the person that comes to
power in this city.

MATT: "That is helpful. And I imagine you also
have some presumably powerful connections in

"Vasselheim. We would be interested in beginning a
sect of our fair trade in that distant, all-too--

"how do I put it? Xenophobic cityscape?"

TRAVIS: What?

MATT: "If you agree to be our seed in that
stubborn garden of a town, you have our aid."

MARISHA: Can you give us a moment? (softly)
Please?

MATT: "My patience grows thin."

MARISHA: (whispering) Can we talk about this for a
second, guys?

MATT: He adjusts the monocle on his eye.

MARISHA: Do we really need them? Are they really
providing us with enough to make this worth our

while, to where we essentially want to open up the
Pandora's Box of crime in Vasselheim? Do we want

to be responsible for that?

TRAVIS: Well, I'm all about Pandora and her box,
but I don't think we really need this. It's not

worth all of that. Especially if we're going to
Vasselheim.

MARISHA: I feel like we just took one pretty
top-heavy deal and traded it for an even more

top-heavy deal not in our favor.

TALIESIN: Oh no, I'm not-- I feel the urge to
further discuss this. Also, to be fair, we're not

representatives of the Clasp; we couldn't,
technically speaking, open-- All we can do is-- I

think, the most fair thing to do-- to offer in
exchange for this is perhaps some trade with the

materials that are available in Whitestone and
maybe a promise of keeping a blind eye towards

their business until the finished reconstruction
of the city. Let them reestablish themselves until

the city is properly completed.

LAURA: Don't say that.

TALIESIN: You need an underbelly. Underbellies are
function. Underbellies function for this very

need: the fact that we can actually get food and
medical supplies into the city right now if we

need to. Less than 72 hours after such a
devastating attack, there's no other system--

LIAM: If the Clasp were to vanish, something else
would take its place.

TALIESIN: They're inevitable.

LAURA: But I don't want to introduce them to
Vasselheim, no.

TALIESIN: At the cost of people starving or not
starving.

LAURA: We're already here, Keyleth.

MARISHA: I'm down for joining them and letting
them join our cause, and using their

infrastructure, but beyond that--

LIAM: Can I use perception to make sure that we're
really private right now?

MATT: Make a perception check.

LAURA: Can I join in?

LIAM: 22-- Oh, 22, plus can I use my inspiration
on this?

MATT: When'd you get that inspiration die?

LIAM: I got it in the wyvern fight.

MATT: It would've faded by now, unfortunately.

LIAM: Okay, so 22.

LAURA: 33.

MATT: 33?

You're far away from the crowd. However,
Spireling Shenn has been very concentrated in

shifting his attention from each person that is
currently speaking in this conversation.

MARISHA: He's reading our lips.

LAURA: I turn my back to him and I say, he can
read our lips as well as I can.

TALIESIN: Of course he can, which is why I'm not
saying anything that I wouldn't want him to hear

anyway. I just don't want to promise anything we
can't deliver. I don't think we could deliver

Vasselheim; we're going to be busy! We have too
much on our plate as it is.

LAURA: I don't think they'd listen to us anyway,
honestly.

TALIESIN: I'm going to offer what we can give, and
see if that's enough.

SAM: We have to have something to sweeten the
pot.

MARISHA: Yes.

SAM: What are you offering, money?

LAURA: Offering to sweeten the pot-- we're
defeating a fucking dragon! Let them get back to normal.

SAM: We can't promise that! The dragon could very
easily kill us!

LAURA: We could say-- They certainly can't do it
without us. And we can't do it without them. But

we'll be bringing in other armies with us.

MARISHA: I agree-- it's joined forces at this
point, that's all we can offer them. A place to

fight at our side.

TRAVIS: You're still assuming he's going to keep
his word, too.

TALIESIN: Let me go back to him. (deep sigh)
Shenn.

MATT: "Yes, hmm."

TALIESIN: I propose a counter-offer. I just don't
feel comfortable offering Vasselheim; I don't

think that we could necessarily deliver, and we,
honestly, have a lot to do.

MATT: "All I'm asking is an introduction to a
handful of key figures in the city, no more than that."

TALIESIN: Well, I will not promise that now. What
I can promise right now is some access to

materials from Whitestone, which-- and I show him
my gun hilt, which is embedded with the gems. I

can see what's still lying around, and we can make
a deal. I can also promise that for the

reconstruction, once this has been dealt with,
which is in everybody's best interest, until such

time as there's a functioning government in this
city, you will be treated with the respect

appropriate of a group of people who are helping
keeping the city functional.

MATT: "You act like that hasn't been our treatment
for the entirety of this city's existence. You

"think your council didn't have dealings with the
Clasp for many years before this happened?"

TALIESIN: Of course they have.

MATT: "We helped make this city function. All
we're offering is this service to other places

"that maybe don't have the right guidance to
achieve their true greatness. All I ask is an

"introduction. Beyond these other. Far after the
fact; don't even need to worry about it now. Who's

"to say what changes from now to then?"

LAURA: Who would we even introduce you to?

MARISHA: We don't even know anyone.

SAM: Yes, we do. We know some high-ranking
clerics. We know the Slayer's Take. We met a bunch

of people up there.

MARISHA: In a zealot city? You want to go to a
cleric and be like, "Hey. Thought you might want

"to meet the underground mob boss."

MATT: "We don't have to worry about that now. Just
a simple handshake, and it's all done."

TALIESIN: I'll put something forward to the group.
If they prove themselves honorable, if they prove

themselves faithful and capable of keeping this
city afloat, then we will speak to whomever they

wish us to speak to precisely of what they did. No
more, no less.

MATT: "If this is an issue of morality, I would
like to remind you that, one, we've let you escape

"after murdering one of our leaders, only upon
learning that he himself was an immoral

"individual."

LIAM: You're welcome.

MATT: "Also, we went against our word as an
organization by letting you take a war criminal

"that had already paid his way out of the city."

TALIESIN: And for that, we are grateful.

LAURA: And we gave you something very powerful in
exchange.

MARISHA: And you got to keep that man's money.

TALIESIN: That was business.

MATT: "It was business, but business that was
persuaded by the actions of good people, and

"bringing justice. We want society to thrive."

TALIESIN: I'm willing to kick this ball down the
field.

TRAVIS: What?

MATT: "So. Not wasting any more time, shall we
make this a fine, healthy city once again?"

TALIESIN: This feels a fair deal to me, and it
means that we can leave knowing that the city

will, in fact, still have a populace while we're
gone.

MARISHA: You seem used to selling your soul,
Percy.

TALIESIN: It is the job of ruling.

SAM: If we come back and learn that you have made
a deal with the dragons, you'll be the first to

die, not them.

MATT: "Oh. I would only hope that would be the
case. I wouldn't be caught dead dealing with such

"a selfish entity."

SAM: All right, then let's do this. Keyleth, shake
the man's hand.

TALIESIN: You don't have to.

SAM: You've got nice soft hands.

TALIESIN: Vax?

TRAVIS: It should be Vax.

TALIESIN: This is not the worst deal I've ever
heard.

MARISHA: You just don't know that yet.

MATT: "I have things to do."

TALIESIN: I have met the devil. That's not him.

LAURA: Don't do it.

MARISHA: Percy, you make me so nervous.

TALIESIN: Thank you.

MATT: "I haven't all day. My arm grows weary with
impatience."

MARISHA: Vax?

SAM: Would you like me to sing to give you some
extra strength for that arm?

TALIESIN: Vax, I will make the deal if you're not
up to it, but I want your blessing.

LIAM: You know what? Keep your deal.

TRAVIS: Yeah! Attaboy.

SAM: We're going to leave the city abandoned?

TRAVIS: Yes.

SAM: With no one to protect it?

MARISHA: We are not abandoning it. We already
discussed it. There's more than one way to cut

through this knot.

LIAM: I don't think you're going to let this city
fall, anyway. If this city dies, you've nothing.

MARISHA: I agree.

LIAM: If the parasite hasn't a host to feed on,
the parasite dies. No, thank you.

MARISHA: Percy? I'm sorry, but I think our methods
of being rulers might differ. I don't think I need

to sell myself for the greater good.

MATT: "Very well. Unfortunate as it is. Step
forward."

LIAM: Is this a whisper?

MATT: No, this is him asking you to step forward.
He steps really close to you, and he takes you by

the shoulders and turns you around to face away
from him. Do you resist?

LIAM: I'm going to roll out of his hands forward
to my friends.

MATT: Okay. Make an acrobatics check.

LIAM: 28.

MATT: 28. You tumble away from his grasp, and he
(grunts). "Very well. I know your face now, at

"least. And the rest of the Clasp will know you are
a false member, now. You are not welcome in these

"tunnels ever again, and if we see your face
amongst our kind, it will be our word that you are

"to be taken on sight. It's a shame you've marked
yourselves our enemy this day. I wish it wasn't

"this way. But to step up and confront us with such
disrespect for all the patience we've shown you in

"previous years is just-- it irks me. Stinks of a
lack of civilization. So please be on your way.

"We'll do as we do. You do as you. Now be gone."
And he turns around, flicks his cloak, and steps

back into the group. The rest of them keep their
hands on their belts and wait for you to leave.

SAM: I look at Garthok and say, "Even you?"

MATT: Garthok actually gives you a very stern look
and pulls his blade an inch from

the side of his scabbard.

TRAVIS: I wouldn't do that.

MATT: At which point, you can see 25 more Clasp
members step out. Even wounded ones as they are,

all stepping up and gathering. There are now 35 to
40 of them starting to form out of the shadows,

forming a semicircle around you entirely.

SAM: Don't do it, Grog.

TALIESIN: Absolutely not.

MARISHA: Let's go. Come on.

TRAVIS: A fellow can't smile every once in
a while?

LAURA: We'll just back up.

TALIESIN: I take a bow, and I turn my back to them
and walk out.

LAURA: I do not turn my back. I walk backwards the
entire way out, with an arrow notched.

TRAVIS: I stay next to Vax.

SAM: I say, party on, Garthok. And then we
leave.

LAURA: Keyleth? Darling? Could you maybe make a
wall of stone and close off this tunnel?

MARISHA: Unfortunately, no.

LIAM: Save a thought for the people of Emon, if
you've any room left in your narrow minds.

And I back out.

MARISHA: I end with, hopefully, you will realize
there is a far greater enemy at hand than the

personal squabbles between us small people. And I
also step away.

MATT: The Spireling's not even in view at this
point. He's disappeared amongst the rest of them.

MARISHA: I'm sure he can hear me.

MATT: Possibly. As you guys exit and find your way
back up to the surface, as the last of you makes

it outside of the entranceway, you immediately
start hearing this slamming and breaking of stone

from underneath you, and you gather pretty rapidly
that this entrance is being entirely removed for

possible entry.

TALIESIN: I would like to point out, since you had
such noble intentions towards my position on

things, this is your ego at work here. I may be
many things, and I may be a deal-maker, but I

never forget that when I rule, I rule these
people, as well. I'm not better than them. And you

may think you're better than them, but this is
what it creates. It creates enemies.

MARISHA: No, Percy. The difference is, I don't
think I'm better than them.

TALIESIN: They certainly think you do, and they
are not pleased.

LAURA: This mark. Is it magic? Can they trace you
through this mark?

LIAM: I don't answer. I walk over to Keyleth. Can
you still do the thing with your hands?

MARISHA: (fire noise) That thing?

LIAM: I rip my shirt down. I want you to burn it
away. Now.

MARISHA: Vex, do you have an arrow?

LAURA: Of course.

MARISHA: I hand it to him. Put this in between
your teeth. (sizzling noise)

MATT: (sizzling noise) Searing white pain through
the back of your eyes, Vax, as Keyleth presses her

palm into the center of your shoulder blades. You
can hear the sizzling and cracking of skin, and

smell the burning of Vax's flesh in the air in
this cellar. Make a constitution check.

LIAM: Seven.

MATT: Seven. You break through the arrow with your
grip, and actually give out a very loud, painful

scream out of reaction.

LIAM: Like you do.

LAURA: Similar to when you hit me in my arm.

MATT: Kind of. A moment passes. Keyleth, you pull
your hand back, and where the Clasp symbol once

was, there is a hand mark burned into the back of
the shoulders.

TRAVIS: Vecna.

(laughter)

LIAM: It was you.

TRAVIS: Kill her now!

MATT: What would you guys like to do?

SAM: Well, that was a bust.

TALIESIN: That could have gone so much better.

TRAVIS: Vax, I think you made the right call, and
I don't think very often.

SAM: Or very well.

TRAVIS: Yeah.

LIAM: Thank you, Grog.

TALIESIN: I think we could have gotten out of
there with at least the hintings of an alliance,

as opposed to just--

LAURA: Straight up--

TALIESIN: Bitter enemies. This was a disaster.

TRAVIS: Sometimes you have to walk away from a bad
deal to find a good one.

SAM: That's not a thing.

TALIESIN: That's not a thing. Where did-- you
didn't read that--

MARISHA: I got what you were saying, Grog.

TRAVIS: When it rains, the sun is shining.

LAURA: That's deep, Grog. I like it.

TRAVIS: Stew on that.

LAURA: I cast Cure Wounds on--

LIAM: No!

LAURA: I already did it. Too late! I fucking
touched you, fucker.

LIAM: Does that take the scar?

LAURA: It just takes the pain away.

MATT: Cure Wounds? What it does is prevents
infection. It does heal you for the hit points you

would have lost for that. I'll say it nullifies
the damage you would have taken from the burn

mark. It does not alleviate you from the scarring.
It's not as graphic as it would have been, had it

been left to heal on its own, but it does muddle
the Clasp symbol somewhat.

LIAM: Okay. Thank you.

SAM: Shall we go back to our keep?

TRAVIS: We could just kill them all now.

LIAM: There's hundreds of them, Grog.

TALIESIN: (splutters) No, we can't.

TRAVIS: I saw, like, 40 or 50.

LIAM: Yeah, there were another 160 in the
rafters.

TALIESIN: It would do no good. Who would be
bringing food into the city in the first place?

LIAM: They're going to go on doing the same thing
they would have done with us or without us.

TALIESIN: They're doing it without us, though.

MARISHA: But Percy, do you honestly think that
after all of this was done-- do you want to be

beholden to those people?

LIAM: And I don't believe they are going to bend
the knee to Thordak. I don't believe it.

TALIESIN: They're not going to, no. Of course
not.

LIAM: And that was all I, personally, was worried
about.

TALIESIN: I wanted people on the inside keeping us
informed, and we just lost a

very powerful spy network.

LIAM: I think the only people on the inside right
now have scales.

TALIESIN: Everybody needs something.

LAURA: Can we go back to the keep?

TALIESIN: We are not going to bother. We're going
to go and we're going to find a way of killing

these things, and we're going to hope for the best
in this city. That's what we're going to do.

MATT: As you guys are heading back, I need stealth
checks from everybody.

LAURA: Stealth check. Pass Without a Trace.

MARISHA: Fuck! Natural one.

TALIESIN: Oh my god, really?

MARISHA: Natural one.

LAURA: Then what's the point of anybody rolling?

LIAM: 27.

SAM: 19.

LAURA: 37.

TRAVIS: 29.

TALIESIN: We have a plus ten? 33.

MATT: All right. You guys push southward through
the city, finding your way. At this point, the sun

has set. Night has come in, and occasionally you
hear the flapping of leathery wings overhead as a

number of sentry groups of wyvern riders go
tearing through the city. At one point, you hear a

similar (raspy cry) sound, and you hear other ones
begin rising up off the rooftops, heading in your

direction, Keyleth. What do you guys do?

TALIESIN: The minute we see that, I'm going to
push her against the wall, and I'm going to Minor

Illusion a shadow right over her.

MATT: Okay. Make a new stealth check with
disadvantage.

LAURA: Add ten.

MATT: (chuckles) It's a natural one on their end.

MARISHA: Oh, good.

MATT: As long as you didn't roll a natural one.

MARISHA: No, I didn't, I rolled an eight, plus a
seven, plus ten.

MATT: So, at that point, they (whoosh), one swoops
down and lands on the edge of the roof, and you

see it curling down. And takes off again, and they
continue on, out of the way. You wait a few

moments before silence takes the night once more,
and you press on heading southward.

(laughter)

LAURA: Nice.

SAM: Good job, Percy.

MARISHA: Thank you, Percy.

TALIESIN: One day you're going to stop being
afraid of me, by the way, and I hope that day

comes soon.

SAM: Before we go to the keep, do you want to
swing by the place?

TALIESIN: The place?

SAM: The place with the airships.

TALIESIN: There's no "swinging by," that's a
caper. That's an entire thing,

that if we're going to do--

SAM: Just to go there and look?

TRAVIS: The showroom is fucked. It's broken.

TALIESIN: This is one of those things that we're
going to have to get everybody on board before we

even start talking about it, so probably a good
night's sleep.

SAM: All right.

LAURA: We need to sleep. We need to get up in the
morning--

TALIESIN: And then we'll talk about an airship.
I'm really on board with the airship.

SAM: All right.

LAURA: I think we need to go to Vasselheim or
Whitestone.

TRAVIS: Vasselheim.

LIAM: We don't need an airship to do that.

LAURA: No, we don't. But we also need to find out
what's happening with Allura in Whiterun.

Westruun. All those cities.

SAM: All right. Back to the keep then, I guess.
When we get there can we check in on Gilmore and

the queen?

MATT: Yes. And as you return to the keep, Pike has
been taking care of the rest of the individuals,

and she's been seeing to Gilmore's side. Gilmore
is fast asleep, dealing with the tail end of a

fever that has broken, after the healing from the
day before. Earlier in the day, I should say. It

also appears that Salda and the children have been
in and out, keeping an eye as well. Pike, as you

enter, looks up to you with a smile, and says,
"He'll be all right. He's going to pull through."

LAURA: That's wonderful.

MATT: "I should probably stay with him for a bit.
Make sure he's okay."

LIAM: Is he unconscious still, or just sleeping?

MATT: He is asleep, currently, yeah. "He's been
conscious throughout the day while you were gone,

"but he's got to rest a bit more. He's still had a
rough few days."

TRAVIS: It's dead on.

TALIESIN: Just needs headphones.

MATT: I just need headphones, and to brush against
the mic occasionally. Especially during really

really impactful story moments.

LIAM: "What? What?"

MATT: So you guys find yourselves resting for the
evening. You take to a night's sleep.

LAURA: You going to sleep, Grog?

TRAVIS: Yeah.

MATT: Yeah, you got to sleep.

TRAVIS: I got to sleep.

MATT: If you don't sleep you're going to start
getting levels of exhaustion for the next day.

TRAVIS: Oh. Okay.

MATT: All right. So you lose the strength bonus.
Everyone, you can get half of your hit dice back.

TRAVIS: That's a lot of--

LIAM: As the sun goes down? It's been down and
everyone's going to their rooms? I go to Keyleth's

door and knock on it.

MATT: Keyleth.

MARISHA: I open the door. Hi.

LIAM: Hi. I don't want to be alone tonight. Do
you?

MARISHA: I haven't been wanting to be alone most
nights. And I let him in.

MATT: Okay. So, we--

LAURA: Bow-chicka-wow-wow!

MATT: Jump forward to the next morning--

TALIESIN: That wasn't the kind of ship I was
hoping to get.

(laughter)

TALIESIN: I don't think we can all fit on that
ship.

MATT: So, next morning, you all wake up; full hit
points, get back half of your max hit dice that

you spent. All your spells back.

LAURA: I give Scanlan the Hat of Disguise back.

MATT: Okay.

SAM: You sure you don't need it?

LAURA: Yeah, fuck 'em.

SAM: All right. Keep up those rhymes. Not bad for
a first timer.

(laughter)

MATT: All right, so. What's the plan?

SAM: You know, Vex, I don't want to be alone right
now.

(laughter)

LAURA: I take his face and I push him down on the
ground.

MATT: All right. What's the plan?

MARISHA: I don't know.

LAURA: Do we have a plan?

TALIESIN: I suppose our plan is the Slayer's Take
next?

TRAVIS: Yeah, Vasselheim.

SAM: How do we get there? Wait, we have to get rid
of all the 'fugees.

LAURA: Yeah. We need to go to Whitestone, then.

TALIESIN: Well, here's the question is do we want
to head towards Vasselheim from Whitestone?

LAURA: Yeah, let's do that.

TALIESIN: So we'll all go. We'll take the last of
the-- I can't believe I'm going to say this-- the

last of the 'fugees.

SAM: Yes. Ooh, la la la.

LAURA: Wait. All of our guards, and our servants,
as well. I don't want to leave everyone here.

SAM: We're abandoning the keep?

LAURA: I don't know what else to do. If dragons
attack, our five guards aren't going to be able to

do anything.

LIAM: One dragon crashed in the roof of the
building.

TALIESIN: Accidentally smushed.

LIAM: What are the cook and the maid going to do?

TALIESIN: Make it breakfast.

LIAM: Jarett's pretty badass, but I don't think he
can handle that.

TRAVIS: Dragons get hungry.

SAM: When we come back, our keep will be gone.

TALIESIN: And we'll be able to build it back up.

MARISHA: It'll match the rest of the city,
Scanlan.

LIAM: Percival's the lord of Whitestone. He's got
a castle!

LAURA: We find a new keep.

SAM: But my room is just the way I want it.

TALIESIN: I'm sure that some lucky dragon's going
to come and shit in your bed. It'll be fine.

SAM: All right, if we're going to leave the keep,
I'll need a moment in my room.

LIAM: You'll find another room bathed in 
self-loathing.

(laughter)

LIAM: It doesn't need to be here.

TALIESIN: It takes a good month to bathe a room in
that much self-loathing.

SAM: You look like you're glowing this morning.

LIAM: That's ridiculous.

SAM: I've never seen you quite so chipper.

TALIESIN: Let's gather what we need, make sure
that Gilmore is ready to move, as well. We'll

bring everybody through to Whitestone.

SAM: All right.

MATT: All right.

LAURA: I guess we should go tell the guards that
they probably will have to leave, if they want.

TALIESIN: And that they can come work in
Whitestone.

LAURA: Well, I don't want to force them to, but of
course they're welcome to.

LIAM: Why don't you go ask the guards? I'll go
talk to the kitchen staff.

LAURA: All right.

TRAVIS: I know who she's going to talk to.

LAURA: He's the captain of the guards, anyway.

MATT: We'll say for the sake of brevity, you speak
with the rest of the keep's staff, including the

guards as well. Jarett for the most part is like,
"As long as I'm still getting paid, we're more

"than happy to go where you need us to be. If it's
further away from dragons, I am okay with that."

SAM: Don't you need your tools?

TALIESIN: I can pack up my kit, and I've also
technically got a reasonable workshop back in

Whitestone.

MATT: Okay, so you gather your materials, you
prepare at the tree in the center of the keep, you

say your goodbyes--

SAM: Before we go out there, I go to my room, I
take a dump on my bed--

MATT: You've used it at the temple of Sarenrae--

SAM: No, it's not a potion. Just a straight-up
poo.

MATT: Just a straight-up poo? Okay. Marking your
territory. I respect that.

SAM: I hang a note on the gate of the keep.

TRAVIS: Shitting on your own bed?

SAM: I don't want anyone else to use it. And with
a butter knife, I put a note on the gate to the

keep that says, "If Kaylie comes, go to
Whitestone. P.S. If my painting is delivered,

"please forward to Scanlan Shorthalt, care of
Whitestone."

MATT: All righty.

TRAVIS: "Mind the poo."

LAURA: I leave a note for Allura, and tell her
we've headed to Whitestone, as well.

MATT: Okay.

LAURA: I don't say Whitestone. I say, "the place
where we sent you originally,"

so she knows where it is.

MATT: Okay. Notes are placed. Spell is prepared?

TALIESIN: I've packed everything that could
possibly be used to make anything dangerous.

MATT: Okay. You have your supplies at the ready.
You all gather in the center of the temple of

Sarenrae. Keyleth?

LAURA: Not yet, Keyleth!

TALIESIN: We'll be back.

MARISHA: What's wrong? Are you ready, Vex?

LAURA: I mean, it's the first time we've had a
home in forever, and we're leaving it.

SAM: Can you make it disappear, or something?

LAURA: We can go. It's nothing.

MARISHA: I can put Hallucinatory Terrain over it,
that'll last a bit, but not

long enough to make it worthwhile.

LAURA: It's just stone.

LIAM: We've done it once before. We can do it
again.

TALIESIN: It will be built back better than
before. That's what we do.

LAURA: Let's go.

MATT: The portal opens outside of the tree, and
all of the refugees start rushing through. You

guys give chase, following over to the opposite
side, where Whitestone waits. You all emerge from

the Sun Tree in the center of the familiar town.

LIAM: Fucking cold!

MATT: It is chilly. Not as snow-dappled as it was
when you first arrived. A little has melted, and

the clouds are a little bit more open; you can see
some of the blue sky above you. It's actually a

beautiful day, if a bit chilly. As you emerge, you
can see there's a few individuals in the center of

the town, including a couple of the original
refugees that seem to be waiting for the rest to

come through. They greet you as soon as you
arrive, and rush up and grab a couple of people

that they had met at your keep. Some come forward
and say, "Thank you. I'm so glad you made it!"

They shake your hands.

You've arrived back in Whitestone. So, do you guys
want to wait here for the day, and then make your

way to Vasselheim?

SAM: Do we need to talk to anybody here?

TALIESIN: Just to set up to make sure that the
queen and her children

are taken in at the castle.

LIAM: I imagine you'll fill your sister in.

TALIESIN: I will. I'll fill my sister in on how
they're to be taken care of. Make sure that

Gilmore is taken care of.

SAM: We may want to stock up on potions and stuff
before we leave.

LAURA: Yeah, buy as much as we can.

TALIESIN: There's a shop.

MATT: There is, but you guys have cleaned it out.

LAURA: Buy stuff in Vasselheim.

MATT: They have not had an opportunity to restock.
Their main providers have been killed.

LIAM: Do you think that with the time that's
passed, Cassandra has found any of the belongings

of the Briarwoods? They were pretty snazzy.

TALIESIN: We can ask about that.

MATT: You approach Cassandra, who is happy to
greet you once you return.

"Did you have a question?"

TALIESIN: Vax?

LIAM: We need to kill some dragons, and we are out
of everything. You've been here a while. Have you

found anything of the Briarwoods? Any store of
treasure or potion or anything of use?

MATT: "Well, the personal effects you all
retrieved when they were defeated. What remnants

"of income or gold which they'd kept was put in
with the rest of the Whitestone treasury when they

"took over."

LIAM: Not so much interested in gold as in means
of protection or healing.

MATT: "They weren't really specialized in healing,
I'm afraid, and what bits of protection they had,

"you've already taken. But if gold is what you
need, we can probably spare you some."

LAURA: I mean, I'm not going to say no to the
gold.

TALIESIN: Obviously, we'll sieve the coffer a
little bit because we're going to

need it for the mission.

LAURA: So very generous of you.

TALIESIN: Also, let's re-employ our castle guards
as the Emon royal guards in the meantime, and they

can serve the queen and her children.

LAURA: I like it.

MATT: "That can be very easily presented. Oh, here
we are!" There's a small chest with a lid that she

hands it over to you. Actually, puts it out and
your hands are already out. "All right. 2,000 gold

"from our coffers. It's not much, but we have to
keep the city running."

LAURA: Of course.

TALIESIN: And a small amount of the green gem, if
that would be possible, that's left over from the

mining operation.

MATT: "Of the glass?"

TALIESIN: Of the glass. If possible.

MATT: "Yes, certainly."

TALIESIN: Thank you. I'm working on something.

MATT: "Very well." It takes a few minutes for that
to be retrieved from down south of the tomb in the

mausoleum, but nevertheless, you get four
half-dollar-sized pieces of residuum glass.

TALIESIN: Perfect.

MATT: Four shards of residuum glass. "I hope
that's of aid to you. Apology for the confusion.

"We have quite a bit of individuals to find homes
for, and get them running."

TALIESIN: Gilmore will be of great help.

MATT: "Yes, as you've told me."

TALIESIN: (laughs) I'm sorry to drop this all on
you, and I'm thankful.

MATT: "I'm thankful that we even have an
opportunity to offer aid to somebody. That's

"thanks to you, so it's nothing on us."

TALIESIN: It will not be the end of it, sadly.

MATT: "That's all right. Whatever we can do.
Anyway, good luck."

TALIESIN: I'll be off in the morning.

SAM: How are we getting to Vasselheim?

TALIESIN: We can teleport.

LAURA: Yeah, teleport, right?

SAM: Is that true?

LAURA: Just pop on over, yeah. We sleep for the
night, and then we go over to

Vasselheim the next day.

LIAM: Let's have dinner.

LAURA: Hang out in Whitestone for the day.

TALIESIN: I'm going to work on that little
project.

LIAM: Whitestone and chill.

TALIESIN: The thing I was trying to attach to my
gun but wasn't working, I'm going to try to attach

it to my boot instead.

MATT: Interesting.

TALIESIN: I can draw you a sketch.

MATT: All right. While the rest of you guys are attempting
to rest, I need you to make a tinker tools check.

LIAM: Tinker tools. This goes in here.

TALIESIN: That's better. 22.

MATT: 22. You've affixed it to your boot. We'll
see if it works.

TALIESIN: And I've got one working piece? I know
each individual build, I have to build the--

SAM: The nubbin.

TALIESIN: The actual device itself has to be built
for individual usage; it's not auto. I'm going to

try and build one and see how it goes.

MATT: Okay. So total cost for the materials on
that will put you at about 300 gold.

LAURA: What?

SAM: 300 gold.

TALIESIN: I'm working on something.

LAURA: Okay.

TALIESIN: Thank you.

LAURA: I mean, it's your city.

LIAM: Are you borrowing 300 of your gold from the
money you loaned to Vex?

TALIESIN: Since the day I've met her, I've given
her every bloody dime I've made. So, yes. I no

longer even think about it anymore.

LAURA: And I love you for it.

TALIESIN: She's practically the royal treasurer.
She's just happier that way.

MARISHA: (laughing) "She's just happier that
way."

MATT: All right. You find an evening's rest. The
next morning comes uneventfully. You find

yourselves refreshed. I'd say at this point,
you're all at full hit dice after two nights of

rest; you're fine. So, on to Whitestone, Keyleth?

LAURA and TRAVIS: Vasselheim?

MATT: Sorry. You're in Whitestone.

LIAM: We were just here!

MATT: You recall you've seen a number of trees.
The largest you've seen in Vasselheim would

probably have been on the outskirts of--

LIAM: Where we fought the hydra, maybe.

MARISHA: We camped out in a few trees outside of
Vasselheim.

MATT: Do you want to stop outside the city or
within the city, is the question.

MARISHA: Whatever's closest.

TRAVIS: No. No magic in the city.

LAURA: No magic in the city, remember?

MATT: No arcane magic. Divine magic is a different
thing. There's plenty of

divine magic within the city.

LAURA: Oh, is there a teleportation circle? Do we
have one in Whitestone?

MARISHA: There wasn't a teleportation circle to
Vasselheim.

MATT: There are no sigils to Vasselheim. Part of
their defense process is preventing any secret

intrusion in that regard.

TALIESIN: We'll teleport to the outside of the
city and perhaps sleep at the temple of Sarenrae.

MATT: There's the Abundant Terrace.

LAURA: We always have rooms at Slayer's Take,
remember.

TALIESIN: We do always have rooms at Slayer's
Take.

MARISHA: What's the Abundant Terrace?

MATT: That's the section that Melora looks over.
That is where primarily most of the farming, food--

MARISHA: Yeah, let's go there.

MATT: That's where you know there are a number of
orchards and things that are kept in that

vicinity. If you wanted to.

MARISHA: That's right outside the city?

MATT: It's within the city. It's one of the five
quarters. I won't say quarters. It's one of the

five areas.

MARISHA: Sure.

MATT: Quarters.

LAURA: Is Gilmore staying here in Whitestone?
Yes?

MATT: Yeah, unless you want to try and bring him
with you.

LAURA: No, it makes sense to leave him here,
right? Where do you want to stay, Gilmore?

MATT: (laughs) You're approaching Gilmore. He
goes, "To be perfectly honest, I'm not quite

"feeling 100%, and let's just say I'm not a huge
fan of the zealot type."

LAURA: Understandable.

MATT: "Vasselheim doesn't really jangle my
dingles."

LAURA: You've got a whole bookstore devoted to you
here.

MATT: "This is true."

TALIESIN: I would appreciate your help in restarting
the economy of Whitestone, to be fair.

MATT: "Well. (sighs) Guess it's not too late to
open a new branch of Gilmore's Glorious Goods,

"since my other, possibly, two no longer exist.
(sighs) I was so close to opening. I started from

"nothing! I can do it again. (coughs) Good luck,
you all."

TALIESIN: You as well.

SAM: So we're going to a tree outside of the
city?

TRAVIS: Yep.

MARISHA: Well, it's in the farming district in the
city.

MATT: It's in the actual city.

LAURA: All right, cool.

MATT: All right. Using this once again off the Sun
Tree, you guys step through. As you emerge out the

other side, you are in the thick of a heavy
orchard in the Abundant Terrace. There is heavy

snowfall that has fallen recently here, and where
it was cold in Whitestone, it's cold here in

Vasselheim. You can see built-up ice and sleet
that has recently been pushed off to the sides of

the orchard. Even amongst this very cold weather,
all of the plant life in this area is vibrant and

springtime green.

As you all emerge in the center of this orchard,
you can see one of the nearby workers who's

tilling the land looks over. "Hey! What are you
doing here? You're not supposed to be in the

"middle of the orchard!"

LAURA: Slayer's Take business. We'll keep moving.

TALIESIN: We were just leaving.

MATT: (groans) "Fucking Slayer's Take. Do whatever
the fuck they want." He drinks out of his canteen.

"Fine! Just get out."

LIAM: Glad that manticore's not in your orchard.
That's all I can say.

MATT: "Manticore?"

TALIESIN: That's just cruel.

LAURA: Don't worry. We took care of it.

MATT: (weakly) "Thanks." He starts looking
nervously over his shoulders as he goes back to

his work. Eventually, you guys step outside of the
Terrace, finding your way to the Quadroads, which

is the central network that the four main portions
of Vasselheim attach to. This is the Erathis-based

center of the town. You have before you, to remind
you, at the very northern part of the town is the

extremely tall, pointed mountain known as Heaven's
Stair. Attached to that mountain on one side is

the Silver Talon's Reach. That is the main temple
to Bahamut. To the left of it, against the

mountain, not actually into it, is the Braving
Grounds. This is the area that is geared towards

Kord, the deity of war, where you had previously
had a conversation with the Dawn Master, the

Earthbreaker Groon. There's the Platinum Sanctuary
in the Silver Talon's Reach, which is where the

Highbearer Vord, the Silver-Touched, the high
priest of Bahamut is. You also just left the

Abundant Terrace, and there is the Quadroads,
which is where the Slayer's Take currently is. And

there is the Duskmeadow, which is the Raven
Queen's domain. Where do you guys want to go?

LIAM: Remind me, what was the Duskmeadow, again? Was
that where we chased the rakshasa?

MATT: That is where the Amaranthine Oubliette
resides, which is the prison of the city.

MARISHA: What was the name of the section of the
city that has the Slayer's Take?

MATT: That's the Quadroads, the Erathis, deity of
civilization.

TRAVIS: So, like, I really want to go talk to the
Kung Fu Panda master. I don't think we're going to

get a lot of fights in. The guy, I think he was
the teacher of Kern.

The guy I beat in the crucible.

LIAM: That ripped, chiseled old man?

TRAVIS: Yeah.

SAM: The guy who beat you twice?

LIAM, LAURA, AND TRAVIS: No.

TRAVIS: And nobody beat me twice. He got lucky
once, get it straight. I want to go talk to him

because maybe we need some more fighters and
strong folks and I think he might know where they

might be.

SAM: We should talk to the Slayer's Take, as
well.

TALIESIN: We should get our rooms.

LAURA: Yeah, let's go post up.

TALIESIN: We have things to put down.

MARISHA: And also only about a day's travel from
Pyrah.

SAM: What's that? Pyrah?

LAURA: Her home.

SAM: Oh.

TALIESIN: What's left of it. That will be a trip
that will be necessary soon, but not yet.

MATT: You guys hit the Slayer's Take first, or
where are you heading?

LAURA and TRAVIS: Slayer's Take.

LAURA: Just to let them know we're here and we
need some rooms.

MATT: Okay. You make your way to the outside of
the main Slayer's Take guildhall. The dark wood

exterior greets you happily. You can see they
still have a gathering of various antlers of

creatures that are tangled into each other that
form this rustic-looking entrance. And there on

the front doors, you see emblazoned the Slayer's
Take-- for lack of a better term, their symbol

with the words of their actual guild spread across
it, as you saw before.

Opening the front door, you can see within the
main foyer area, there is the dark iron

chandeliers that run across the entire length of
the moot hall, if you will. Across the front area,

you find the clerk desk. Sitting behind it, a
familiar red-haired, tousled, chin-bearded,

scarred-up tiny man with his feet up on the desk,
falling asleep in his chair.

LAURA: (laughs) Oi!

LIAM: Ta-da!

MATT: "What is this craziness? (laughs) Ah! It's
been some time."

LAURA: It has.

MATT: "So. Hello."

LAURA: Hi.

MATT: "What's your business? What are you looking
for?"

LAURA: Dragons? Have you heard about anything?

MATT: "Other than the fact that you killed one.
That is the most recent, but nothing beyond that,

"really, no."

LAURA: We're going to need rooms.

LIAM: And we're probably going to need to speak to
your lady lord.

LAURA: Your wife.

LIAM: Well, your wife, but I'm talking about the
boss, here.

LAURA: That's his wife.

LIAM: Higher still: the sphinx.

LAURA: Oh.

MATT: "Vanessa, she's currently out on a hunt.
Should be back in the next day or so."

LIAM: We've urgent business to discuss with her.
For now, we need a place to stay.

MATT: "Well, you're always welcome here. This is
your home away from home, so please, take a load

"off. Pick a room. It's up to you. It's good to see
you all so healthy!"

LAURA: Healthy.

SAM: Thank you, Mertin. Right?

MATT: "Yes. So glad to hear."

LIAM: The only reason I remember that is it sounds
like merkin.

LAURA: Is Zahra around?

MATT: "She's actually currently out with Vanessa
on a hunt, as we speak."

LAURA: That's wonderful.

SAM: Perhaps we could see her.

LIAM: Sorry, we're tired. We've been hopping all
over.

MATT: "Me, too. I was sleeping when you came in. I
don't mind if I get back to that."

LIAM: Sorry. Any room?

MATT: "If it's somebody else's room, they'll let
you know, so please, take your time."

LAURA: Well, settle in?

TALIESIN: I'm settling in.

MARISHA: Yeah, I guess we all settle in.

MATT: There's a number of empty rooms. Doesn't
look like there's a lot of individuals around. As

you walk down one of the hallways, though, you do
see there is a card table, and the two individuals

in there, you see a very scarred, burly, and
frustrated dwarf who's throwing down cards on a

table. Black, long series of beards, and his hair
over his beard. You see Thorbir is sitting there

at the card table with another man wearing really
beautiful, ornate armor that is well-polished;

very short, dirty blond hair, who is apparently
owning him at cards, going, (chuckles) "You've

"terrible luck, friend. I'm sorry to hear this."

LAURA: (whispering) Aldor.

MATT: It's Aldor.

TALIESIN: Whoa!

MATT: Thorbir's sitting there, and throws his
cards on the table. (scoffs, sighs) "They tell me

"I'm supposed to have the luck of the dwarves."

(laughter)

MATT: "Oh. I guess it's about time you all showed
up. I'm going to get a drink." And he gets up,

away from the table, and walks away from the rest
of you, with a half-hearted "hi," but he's in a

huffy mood and walks off. Aldor takes his winnings
and scoops the change into a pouch.

LIAM: Aldor, Aldor, Aldor.

SAM: How's Lyra? Have you seen her?

(laughter)

MATT: "Why? Have you seen her?"

SAM: Not in a while, but we thought you guys were
engaged to be married. No?

TALIESIN: That's the last we heard.

MATT: He reaches forward and grabs your shirt and
pulls you in. "Where did you hear that?"

SAM: Not from a reliable source, I promise you.

TALIESIN: Very sketchy source.

MATT: "Good. You haven't seen her, have you?"

SAM: Not in a long time.

MATT: "Good."

LIAM: She's still a member of the Slayer's Take,
of course, though. Isn't she?

MATT: "I assume. I just run if I see her. She's a
bit--"

LAURA: Yeah.

SAM: No! She seems nice to me.

MATT: "Good. You know what, actually, if you want
to do me a favor. I mean, she's a nice girl,

"probably pretty easy if you ask her. Why don't you
take her off my hands and go on a date? Take her

"out for dinner. Distract her."

SAM: You saw her first. I'm a man of honor.

MATT: "Oh. No. I should go." He grabs his stuff
and leaves in a huff.

TRAVIS: Good to see him.

LAURA: Yeah.

TALIESIN: He's looking well.

SAM: True love.

MARISHA: It's weird being back, you guys.

SAM: Well, I guess we should ask them all if they
want to come with us to fight a dragon?

MARISHA: Yeah, do we do that now, or do we do that
in the morning?

TRAVIS AND TALIESIN: In the morning.

LIAM: It feels like we were just running screaming
from dragons in the sky.

MARISHA: Yeah. We traveled.

SAM: We'll sleep on it. We'll talk to Nessa in
the morning.

LIAM: We'll get up in the morning, we'll take some
of that gold, we'll put it to good use, we'll wait

until Nessa gets back, and then we'll carve out a
plan.

SAM: Okay.

LIAM: Percival?

TALIESIN: That sounds just fine.

SAM: Kord's strength to us all.

TRAVIS: Yeah!

LAURA: I wonder if Kashaw is still here.

LIAM: Probably, he works here.

MARISHA: Who?

SAM: Kashaw. That was the one that they went on
a--

LAURA: Oh! Right, Keyleth? The guy that kissed
you.

MARISHA: (stammers)

TALIESIN: Brooding. Handsome. He was so troubled.

LIAM: He was.

LAURA: He was very handsome.

MARISHA: So we should probably go to sleep, you
guys.

LAURA: It's morning, still.

MATT: Yeah, it's maybe 10:00am.

MARISHA: Take a nap?

MATT: It's across the world, so it's technically
earlier.

MARISHA: You know, it's jet lag. It's teleport
lag. It gets to you.

LAURA: Maybe Nessa and Zahra have seen him. We
could find out. We could use another healer, always.

MATT: It would be 10:00, 10:30 in Whitestone.
About 6:30, 7:00 in the morning in Vasselheim.

LAURA: Pike, speaking of clerics, do you want to
check in with your temple?

MATT: Pike has actually stayed back in Whitestone
to help the refugees.

TRAVIS: Yep.

LAURA: Oh. She didn't even come to Vasselheim?

MATT: No, but she did say that she's going to keep
an eye, best she can, through Sarenrae. When she

can pop in, she'll try and see if she can project
her form, going forward.

LIAM: She's led by her conscience.

MATT: She's led by her schedule in New York.
(laughs)

TALIESIN: We didn't think to leave her a stone,
did we?

MATT: If you'd like to, you could have.

SAM: Would we have done that?

TALIESIN: I would have definitely suggested
leaving her with one of the stones.

LAURA: Yeah, we probably should leave the stone
with her so she can pop in with us.

MATT: Okay. We'll say that she does that. She
keeps a gatestone with her, just in case.

TRAVIS: Trinket stays in Emon, right?

LAURA: Shut up!

TALIESIN: Trinket's going to guard the castle.

LAURA: Trinket is right here, right now! He has
been quiet, because he's really well-behaved.

MATT: Trinket's been practicing his stealth. (bear
grunts)

LAURA: So stealthy, darling.

MATT: All right, so you've set up your rooms, your
stuff about you. You have a full day before

seemingly anyone from the Slayer's Take is going
to come back. Where do you want to head?

TALIESIN: Individual?

TRAVIS: Individuals? Yeah.

LIAM: Oh, shit, can we buy potions in this city?

TALIESIN: I don't know.

LIAM: Shit! You can't, can you?

LAURA: I'm afraid to start anything. It's 11:00.

MARISHA: I know, it's late.

MATT: All right. Then we will end it there this
evening. I just wanted to get an idea of where you

guys were going for next week.

LAURA: Oh, okay.

TRAVIS: I plan to go see Earthbreaker Groon.

MATT: Okay.

LAURA: I want to wait and talk to Zahra.

MATT: Okay.

TALIESIN: I may want to have a conversation at the
temple of the Raven Queen.

MATT: Okay.

SAM: Zahra sounds fun.

LAURA: Right? But I do want to buy potions, as
well, and stock up.

TALIESIN: Yeah, that, too.

LIAM: Nothing. I'd probably tag along with
Percival.

LAURA: What?

TRAVIS: Old punchy man? You don't want to come
with?

SAM: Oh. Yeah, I'll come watch you if you're going
to have a fight.

TRAVIS: No, I'm going to have a conversation.

LIAM: You're right. I do want to see Old Punchy
Man.

TALIESIN: We can do both.

TRAVIS: Some hand-to-hand?

SAM: Watch you lose again.

TRAVIS: I'm not fighting him!

MATT: All right, so Vax and Scanlan are going with
Grog to the Trial Forge.

LAURA: I'm going to stock up on a bunch of stuff.

MATT: Okay. We'll do some shopping.

TALIESIN: I'm going to go to the temple of the
Raven Queen. I also want to

talk to our mapmaker friend.

MATT: So you're going to the Raven's Crest. Got
it.

TALIESIN: Yeah.

MATT: All right, cool. We'll pick it up next week
at that point, guys. Awesome. Well done, guys!

TRAVIS: We abandoned Greyskull Keep.

MARISHA: Yeah, we did.

LAURA: Yeah, we did, and it's sad.

MARISHA: It's very sad. We abandoned Emon.

MATT: Damn.

LAURA: We can't help it from there. We have to go
somewhere else in order to come back to it.

LIAM: Greyskull Keep is going to be an ancient
dragon's kitty litter box.

TRAVIS: I'm allergic to cats.

MARISHA: If you love it, you have to--

MARISHA and LAURA: Let it go.

LIAM: Like our first hometown, or our elven town?

LAURA: Don't say that.

TALIESIN: I was going to say, do you know who
says, "if you love it, you have to let it go?" The

one who got dumped, that's who! Sorry.

MATT: That's horrible.

TALIESIN: Yeah, you are. I'm a terrible person.

MATT: Well, guys. Thank you so much for watching.
We'll pick this up next Thursday. Those we'll see

tomorrow in Colorado, looking forward to it, and
tomorrow, look for my next episode of GM Tips.

That'll be fun, and is it Thursday yet?

TALIESIN: See you in Arizona!