MATT: Hello everyone, and welcome to tonight's
episode of Critical Role, where a bunch of us

nerdy-ass voice actors sit around, roll dice, and
play Dungeons and Dragons. You may notice Ashley

Johnson left us last week to go shoot in New York
and shooting got delayed a week.

ASHLEY: Here I am! Well, hey, guys!

LAURA: Astral projection!

MATT: Pike's gone, but she at least can sit there
while you guys play, which will be fun.

(laughter)

ASHLEY: I just came to hang out.

MATT: Yeah, that's cool, I appreciate and respect
that. Thank you guys for your patience with the

tech issues, we're trying out some new
arrangements here and it took a little setup.

Nevertheless, we are good to go.

Before we jump into tonight's game, let's go ahead
and get through our announcements. First and

foremost, Loot Crate has been our fantastic
sponsor, and they currently are unveiling their

July theme: Futuristic! Which is pretty rad. They
have a bunch of things from Rick and Morty,

Futurama, Megaman, Valiant Comics, and Star Trek.
Then they have a figure in there, they also have

their monthly t-shirt and pin, all that cool stuff
coming up, and we have the Loot Anime July theme

of Squadron as well! Which includes a bunch of
Gundam, Gate, Arpeggio Blue Steel, Anti-Magic

Academy stuff, an exclusive loot to the anime box.
Both of these are their current themes for July.

If you want to sign up to Loot Crate to get these
and be awesome and keep our sponsors happy, you go

to www.lootcrate.com/criticalrole, and there you
can go ahead and sign up for a $3 a month discount

by putting in the special code criticalrole, one
word, into your subscription.

ASHLEY: It's the best.

LAURA: Do we get to do this? We haven't opened
any of these yet.

SAM: Loot Anime? Wait, we all have to have anime
reactions to these.

MATT: Okay, ready. Ready?

TRAVIS: One, two, three.

(anime reactions)

LAURA: Oh, this is super cool!

SAM: This is definitely a Captain America shirt.

MATT: I was going to say Homestar Runner.

(laughter)

TRAVIS: Biggest Dragon Ball Z fan in the world.

MARISHA: It's Super Saiyan Goku! That's pretty
great! He's got gold hair.

TALIESIN: Boy and little Chiko! I'm going to put it
on my head.

TRAVIS: Fullmetal Alchemist transmutation circle!

LAURA: We may or may not do voices in Fullmetal
Alchemist and Dragon Ball Z.

ASHLEY: Full circle!

MATT: You got a cool poster!

LAURA: You got a poster? Oh, there is a poster!
Oh, and little cell phone charms!

MATT: Yeah, these are from Unity. These are little
feather charms from Unity.

LIAM: Can someone save me a Loot Crate box?

TRAVIS: Shut up, Liam. You're not here!

LAURA: Sorry Liam, you're missing out. I'll save
you a cell phone charm.

MATT: So we got an awesome Yokai shirt.

ASHLEY: They're like little best friend charms.

MARISHA: Yeah, they're like best friend charms.

LAURA: And they're feathers! Actually, Liam, these
are really appropriate. They're feathers. I'll

save you one!

TRAVIS: This is going in the kitchen in front of
the sink. I'm going to stand on it and transmute

my dishes into clean.

ASHLEY: I love this little plush.

TALIESIN: Most useful alchemist ever.

MARISHA: Yay! Thanks, Loot Crate!

MATT: Thank you, Loot Crate. Check it out, if it's
something you want to be part of, they send this

stuff monthly, themed crates are awesome, we've
been at this for a long time.

LAURA: I didn't even know they had an Anime Loot
Crate. That's pretty cool.

MATT: And now you do, Laura. What!

ASHLEY: (singing) The more you know!

MATT: Awesome. So once again, that's criticalrole,
one word, on their website at

lootcrate.com/criticalrole to get your discount for
being Critters and awesome. We have, also, Laura?

LAURA: Oh, the t-shirt competition! Okay. So we
have officially selected the top three of our

choosing, and then we are now presenting them to
you guys to vote on. They are already up on

geekandsundry.com, so go and check them out and
make your votes heard, and we're going to be

announcing the actual winner of the t-shirt
competition at our live show next week, so

everybody that comes and sees that will get to see
a picture of it live. Just like you guys at home.

TRAVIS: What a goober.

MARISHA: You basically see it 30 seconds before
everyone else.

LAURA: That 30 seconds makes a huge difference.

MARISHA: It does.

TALIESIN: We may be miming something while the
picture's up, and that'll be exclusive content.

ASHLEY: And there were so many good ones. It was so
hard.

LAURA: The amount of texts that went back and
forth between all of us, trying to decide what the

top three were going to be, was really--

MARISHA: It was like, okay, everybody pick your
top three, and so we each picked six. And they

were all different. And we're like, cool.

TRAVIS: Which brings us to our next announcement,
which is we do have a live show next week!

(cheering)

TRAVIS: We're going be at Landmark Theatres. It's
a sold-out show, somehow, because everybody's

crazy and is coming to see it. We're going to be
there, in person, trying to pull off this live

show thing. It's going to be wacky, it's going to
be zany. We're not going to have any clothes on.

LAURA: No, that's not true.

MATT: You are welcome to come clothed.

TRAVIS: I'm gonna sit in a sock, and that's it.

LAURA: No!

MATT: Travis, it's already sold out, you don't
have to--

TRAVIS: It's the first of hopefully many, so we'll
see how it goes.

MATT: Yeah, if it goes well and runs smoothly and
people are receptive to it, then hopefully there

will be more of these at different places over the
country.

SAM: Guys, one more quick announcement, over here
on the cool table. Joe Mad posters. You know

them, you love them, they're up on
shop.geekandsundry.com. It's your last chance to

preorder the unsigned limited edition Critical
Role poster. The poster size: it's not 23 by 35,

it's 24 by 36. We went the extra inch for you
guys. These posters will be removed from the

website and deleted forever tomorrow at 1:00pm
Pacific. The cost is $40. Go buy it now. Sorry,

Taliesin. Let me try that again.

TRAVIS: We must reiterate, they are gorgeous. You
will want one of these for you or your friends.

TALIESIN: Trust Scanlan. It's that extra inch that
makes all the difference.

SAM: It's the extra inch, cubed.

MATT: All right. Any other announcements anyone
wants to bring forward? I know Technomancer just

came out. I voice Sean Mancer in that.

MARISHA: What just came out?

MATT: Technomancer.

MARISHA and TALIESIN: Oh, cool.

MATT: A game. It's a game. Anybody else have
anything?

SAM: That's a very half-hearted plug, Matt.

MATT: I just want to get in the game. It's a
thing. There's stuff in it. Yeah, I'm a little

jet-lagged. But that doesn't matter, because
that's what energy drinks are for. All right guys,

let's dive in here to the proper part of tonight's
episode of Critical Role.

TALIESIN: Opening credits!

[dramatic music]

MATT: Welcome back! So we had a week off last week
where the amazing Liam O'Brien there ran a

one-shot game of absolute chaos and did an amazing
job.

LAURA: It was pretty fun.

MATT: If you guys haven't had an opportunity to
check it out, you should. It's up on

geekandsundry.com. It's amazing, and made me and
Marisha very jealous that we couldn't play it, but

we were here in spirit, and obviously, motorcycle
and sidecar. So that was fun. We'll show you some

of the fanart.

But anyway, back to this game. Vox Machina, the
group of adventurers who had found their way now

seeking the Vestiges of Divergence, ancient
artifacts of power, to help them in their struggle

against the Chroma Conclave, the collection of
chromatic dragons that have razed the entire

countryside of Tal'Dorei. They've acquired a few
of them, but the most recent one sends them to the

Feywild in search of Fenthras, a bow which seems
to have acquired the eyes of Vex upon it.

You took care of some business, managed to ward
off an assassination attempt by a rakshasa, and

found your way through Keyleth's Plane Shift spell
into the Feywild, somewhere in the vicinity of the

portal where the nymph in the Frostweald, upon
meeting Vox Machina years before, supposedly lives.

LAURA: Oh shit, Grog.

ASHLEY: Time to get some... tail. I was going to say
something else and then I realized-- Not sure

where that came from.

MATT: So to bring us back in. As you step out into
the temperate air, you're struck by the vibrant

purples, blues and pinks of sunset that envelop
the skies and the clouds above the tree line. The

smell of fresh morning dew and poppy upon the
breeze fills your head, and your feet wade through

tall, thick grasses that tickle your knees with
each step. Vine-covered tree trunks rise all

around you, curling as they stretch upward like a
bending dreamscape, and hundreds of small, bobbing

faerie lights glow in the shadowed distance of the
forest. Looking about you, you can see what appear

to be clusters of mud and small pools of water
that are scattered in your vicinity, some ten, 15,

even 30 feet apart. Small, little pools that dot
the landscape almost like pebbles scattered across

a small field. What do you guys want to do?

LAURA: Already?

SAM: Where are we?

MARISHA: It's beautiful.

TRAVIS: I feel like we got drugged.

TALIESIN: This is fantastic.

TRAVIS: Is anyone else seeing the colors and the
shapes and the--

TALIESIN: Oh, it's everything I could have hoped
for.

MARISHA: I want to live here. It's amazing. Okay.

LAURA: Well, I have no idea how to get our
bearings here, unfortunately.

TALIESIN: Well. Is there any sign of any bit of
civilization or construction?

MATT: Make a perception check.

TALIESIN: Oh lord.

TRAVIS: First roll of the day. Don't fuck it up.

TALIESIN: Ah! Yay. 26.

MATT: 26, okay. As you guys are taking in the
vicinity, Percy, glancing around, you see no signs

of civilization. The only thing that catches your
eye is a little ways past the immediate tree line,

that meets your eye, the fairy lights seem to be
caressing the outside of some sort of older stone

structure. And that's about as much as you can
make out. Looks about four or five feet tall, and

it's only barely visible between two of the
trunks.

TALIESIN: I think I see a thing. I'm heading in
that direction.

MARISHA: Oh! I want to go see a thing. I want to
go! I take off after Percy.

TRAVIS: We can always let them go first and they
die, and then we go.

LAURA: Perhaps it might be wise to move quietly.

TALIESIN: We are already going.

LAURA: Brilliant.

LIAM: You remember what our teachers said of this
place. It's pretty, but it's dangerous.

LAURA: It's very dangerous, and I'm afraid they
don't understand.

MARISHA: Guys, look! They're fireflies!

TALIESIN: Wait, don't touch. Don't touch. We're
going to head towards the stone.

MATT: Okay. You make your way across these
extremely thick, moss-covered tree trunks. You

push past the two and eventually come upon the
structure, and as you get closer, the fairy lights

dim and vanish, as soon as you get within five or
six feet of them, and they seem to only appear at

a peripheral point. You guys approach the stone
structure?

LIAM: Do Vex and I have memories of these from our
tutoring in Elftown?

MATT: Not particularly. Nothing about it strikes
you as part of the general Feywild lore. There are

structures that have been built throughout periods
of time, some of which have fallen to ruin. Nature

in the Feywild tends to reclaim things that aren't
natural if left to their own devices.

LIAM: But the lights, we never heard anything
about those lights?

LAURA: (whispering) Will-o'-wisps.

LIAM: Well, Liam knows that, but I'm asking if Vax
does.

MATT: I would say, have both of you guys roll
history checks, for the both of you. Vex and Vax.

TALIESIN: Can I add into that, too?

MATT: You would not.

TALIESIN: I learned Elven. I was a bit of a nerd.

MATT: You learned Elven, but elven culture and the
Feywild are two entirely different things.

TALIESIN: Oh yeah, I'm aware my head's full of
bullshit, too.

LAURA: 20.

LIAM: Just a 13.

MATT: 13, okay. Best that you can ascertain, the
first worry initially, and you have encountered

something like this before: will-o'-wisps,
entities that were the lost souls of individuals

that died under tragic circumstances in swamps and
bogs and in heavily wooded areas. However, those

entities are usually larger and are drawn towards
sources of life. The fact that these are much

smaller and tend to fade at your arrival means
either they're not will-o'-wisps at all, or a

different kind you haven't encountered. That's as
much information that you can deal with.

LIAM: I wonder if they're fairy folk.

LAURA: Maybe.

TALIESIN: Now, don't touch. We'll stay 11 paces
away.

MARISHA: Okay.

MATT: I'd like you both to make stealth checks if
you could.

MARISHA: Okay.

MATT: Anybody else going up with them, or is just
the two of them?

TRAVIS: Oh, fuck those pieces of bait.

LAURA: Can I climb a tree? Close by.

MATT: Make an athletics check.

LAURA: Athletics. Can I use my acrobatics to hop
up? Ooh! Swing myself? Parkour?

MATT: Roll athletics with disadvantage, just
because I'm giving you a chance.

LAURA: Acrobatics, with disadvantage?

MATT: Yes.

LAURA: 24.

MATT: Okay. This is the one time you've bartered
with the DM this session.

LAURA: Oh no! I should've saved it!

MATT: You do manage to leap across. Because these
trees are thickly wooded and the branch line

starts at about the four-foot mark anyway, it's
fairly easy for you to leap up the top of the tree

without an issue. You vanish up into the canopy.
You two, what'd you roll for stealth?

MARISHA: A 20.

TALIESIN: And a 12.

MATT: And Liam, what'd you get?

LIAM: I didn't roll anything. I just wanted to
call out: you couldn't have used the broom for that?

LAURA: (laughs) Nope!

TALIESIN: And we're keeping about 11 feet, so. At
least.

MATT: 11 feet, okay. You approach this stone
structure, which you see now is the corner part of

a wall. It looks like there was some sort of a
small structure here. Best that you can make out,

all of it's heavily covered with vine and ivy, and
all the places where the stonework is broken looks

to be through natural erosion or claimed by actual
roots, and you can see now part of the tree roots

have actually risen up and tore down elements of
these walls, and you can see broken rubble barely

poking through the very thick underbrush of this
forest. Whatever was here was built a long time

ago and has been mostly reclaimed by the forest.

TALIESIN: Inner corner or outer corner?

MATT: The corner is facing you guys, so you're on
the outside of where the structure would have been.

MARISHA: It's a ruin? Or are there walls that
continue on?

MATT: This is a ruin, but most of it's been torn
down and it's not visible. Sections of walls

available. The largest piece is currently the
corner you're facing.

MARISHA: Interesting.

TALIESIN: Go ahead. I'm going to sit and quietly
sketch for a moment. I'm taking everything down.

MARISHA: Can I do a check to see if I can
recognize who might've built this stone structure?

MATT: Make a history check.

MARISHA: Ten.

MATT: You have no idea. The planes you've studied
are the planes of the elemental form. The Feywild

is a little ways outside of your realm of any
training or storytime you've been given growing

up. Most of what you've gleaned about it thus far
has been based on the conversations you've had in

recent weeks.

TRAVIS: Are there a lot of pastel colors all over
the place?

MATT: It ranges from, at least in this forest, a
very deep lush dark green, like a heavy winter's pine

green. The forests are more vine-wrapped, mossy,
willow-ish trees that hang down.

TRAVIS: Okay, so not crazy LSD colors going.

MATT: No. However, the evening sky is very purple
and orange, like around a very bright dusk. And

that colorscape does contrast with the green of
the forest quite beautifully.

TRAVIS: Is it dusk?

MATT: It looks to be getting to dusk, yeah.

TALIESIN: It may or may not be.

TRAVIS: What does that mean?

LAURA: Time is different in the Feywild.

TALIESIN: So there's no carvings that I can see on
this outer wall, nothing?

MATT: Not from ten feet away, no.

TALIESIN: And the vines that are climbing on it,
are they flowering anything at all?

MATT: The vines that are there do have small
whitish flower buds. Little flowers that have been

blooming in a small scale across the vines.

MARISHA: Do they look like anything that we have
on our plane?

MATT: Not particularly. They look like white
flowers from this distance. You'd have to get

closer to inspect directly.

MARISHA: Can I do that?

MATT: Sure.

TALIESIN: Be very careful. Nothing here is exactly
what it appears to be.

MARISHA: I won't touch it! I'm going to-- it's so
pretty.

LIAM: Vex'ahlia!

LAURA: What? Yes?

LIAM: Do you want to go higher and get a bird's
eye view? Maybe that's not safe, but--

LAURA: That's why I'm staying in the trees,
brother.

LIAM: I meant even higher.

LAURA: I will if it looks safe.

LIAM: All right.

LAURA: Does it look safe?

MATT: The canopy is very thick, and only in these
small little patches of meadow, like the one that

you entered and had all the little pools in it,
and the one that you're entering now which has the

ruin, have little breaks in the canopy where you
can actually see the sky. Otherwise, it's very

thick, so actually flying through the canopy,
unless you're going very slowly, is going to be

whipping you and probably knocking you off.

LAURA: Can I see from my height, can I see a
better view of the ruins and everything?

MATT: You can make your way up there a little bit.
Make a perception check. Keyleth, you approach the

ruin to get a closer look at the plants? Make a
nature check.

LAURA: Oh! And this is forest, right?

TALIESIN and MARISHA: Oh!

MARISHA: 30.

MATT: Okay. These white flowers resemble a form of
daisy that exists in Tal'Dorei. However, they grow

there in flower clusters out of the ground. You've
never seen them sprout from a vine, and the

shape's a little different, and you don't actually
know this form of plant from your personal

experience, but you can ascertain a similar nature
to it.

TRAVIS: Nothing is what it seems.

MARISHA: A "feysy." Are they poisonous or anything
like that?

MATT: They don't appear to be toxic, no.

MARISHA: Can I touch it?

MATT: As you reach out and touch it with your
finger, I need you to go ahead and do nothing,

because it's fine.

LAURA: You sneaky. Here we go.

TRAVIS: "As you" always means doom.

LAURA: I got 25 on my perception.

MATT: Okay. As you rocket up past the boughs and
begin to emerge from the edge of the canopy over

this opening, you do see a very large water pool
on the other side of this ruin. You can see where

this ruin used to be. Most of it has fallen and
then sunken into what appears to be a very glassy

pool of water. A still surface, untouched. There's
no wind in this area. It's a perfectly reflective

surface to the opening above it.

LAURA: Do I see any life forms around?

MATT: You don't see any life forms. You do see a
bare minimum hint of movement, if you will,

beneath the water. You can't make out the shape,
but you do see something moving beneath the water.

LAURA: Does this look similar to the pool that was
on the other side of the portal?

MATT: It's a pool.

LAURA: I wouldn't know?

MATT: It looks like water. And you've seen a
number that you've come past in this way. This

one's larger than the others.

MARISHA: I want to pick the little white flower.

TALIESIN: Oh, I wouldn't do that!

LAURA: I come down and I watch as Keyleth makes a
stupid move. Don't pick anything.

MATT: You pluck the flower. As you pluck it, the
vines begin to writhe and pull away from the

stone, actually releasing the hold on the ruin,
and as it does, you hear what sounds like some

movement, some shifting of water on the other side
of the stone wall.

LAURA: There was something in the water on the
other side of the ruins.

MARISHA: I take the flower and I put it back.

MATT: The vine has retracted, and as you set it
towards the vine, it tumbles off. And actually the

flower, you see now as you reach down, it has
turned from a beautiful white and has immediately

withered into a black, dried husk.

TRAVIS: Wow. We've been here five minutes.

MARISHA: I was going to press it and keep it.

LAURA: I'm not lying. We should probably hide!

MATT: Where was once silence, you hear the rushing
of leaves as the canopy's beginning to close over,

like the trees are leaning in and the actual
branches themselves are starting to close up the

gap in space on the sky.

LIAM: I'm going stealth! Ducking into the grass!

MATT: Stealth check on both you guys.

SAM: I'm hanging back with Grog. I've been
scratching my back on his knee for a while.

TRAVIS: I don't see what the big deal is, really.

LAURA: 29.

MATT: Okay.

LIAM: 34.

MATT: Okay. Both of you guys-- you go back into
the branch, and you can feel the branches pushing

behind you, and you have to actually get low to
not be dragged away with the rest of these

extending branches that are closing off the
opening in the canopy. Vax, you make your way

towards one of the tree trunks and dart out of the
way. Percy, you're watching this in horror.

TALIESIN: I'm trying to very gently back her up.

MATT: Okay. It's at this point, you guys see a
hand creep up over the stone. A secondary hand.

MARISHA: Maybe it's his version of a doorbell. You
pick a plant and you get--

MATT: Pulling up from here, you now see what
appears to be a humanoid female form, lithe, hair

wet and slicked back, and as the head peeks
over--

TALIESIN: I bow. And I push her down.

MATT: Okay. The moment there is any movement, she
flickers and moves back from the wall, looking

already very perturbed by this whole circumstance.
I need both of you guys to make constitution

saving throws.

MARISHA: Oh, not bad. 21.

TALIESIN: Natural one.

MATT: Natural one. As you're shoved ahead, and
begin to go into a bow, Percy, you bow, but you

can't take your eyes off of it as the creature
pulls herself up over the wall. An extremely

beautiful, impossibly beautiful woman, nude, steps
up over the edge of the wall, and as you glance

forward, everything goes dark. Blackness.

MARISHA: Is he still conscious?

MATT: You bow, and he appears to be bowing. He's
still standing; he's fine.

TALIESIN: Hello?

MATT: As soon as you say that, the creature darts
backward, and you see it take a few steps and then

leap and dives into the pool and vanishes beneath
the water's surface. Although you see that,

Keyleth. Percy, you do not. You just hear
footsteps.

TALIESIN: Oh dear.

LAURA: What happened?

TALIESIN: We're going to have to find her.

LAURA: Did she say anything?

TALIESIN: No.

MARISHA: She was very pretty. Are you okay?

TALIESIN: I think she blinded me. No, she blinded
me.

MATT: And you look at Percy, eyes wide open,
glancing about, the pupils moving about.

TALIESIN: Yes, I'm blinded. I'm blind.

MARISHA: Okay.

TRAVIS: Really?

SAM: We should test it out.

TRAVIS: Yeah. How many fingers am I holding up?

TALIESIN: One.

(laughter)

TRAVIS: He's a liar! He can see fine. Piece of
shit.

LAURA: Grog! Did you recognize that woman?

MATT: Were you paying attention?

TRAVIS: No.

(laughter)

LAURA: You didn't see the naked woman come up over
that wall?

TRAVIS: Where? Hold on. Did you hear that?

SAM: If there was a naked woman, I would have
seen it.

TALIESIN: I'm going to curl up in a little ball
for a minute and rock.

MATT: Okay. Percy crawls onto the ground and
begins rocking back and forth.

LAURA: I come down out of the tree. Can you just
be quiet for two seconds?

MARISHA: Maybe it'll wear off in a minute?

LAURA: (shushing) Grog.

TRAVIS: What?

LAURA: There was a naked woman. In a pool.

SAM: Go on.

LAURA: That reminded me of maybe the pool on the
other side. We were jumping over from close to

that portal, right? Could it be the nymph that you
stole the heart of?

MARISHA: She was very pretty.

TRAVIS: I don't know. Maybe.

LAURA: Would it be safe for you to see her again
and maybe ask for her to cure our friend here or

would you-- Is she dangerous to be around?

TRAVIS: Well, she didn't blind me.

LAURA: What'd she do to you?

TRAVIS: That's none of your business.

LAURA: Well, I worry if we go try to talk to her
if it's not her, then she could blind all of us.

TRAVIS: I don't know. My chick didn't blind me, so
if she did, I think we need to kill her.

TALIESIN: I'm going to take out my Dragonslayer
Longsword and stand up and start using it as a

cane. Find my way to Grog and poke him with it.

MATT: Okay. Make a perception check.

TALIESIN: Better. That's 18.

MATT: Okay. As they're having this conversation,
you--

TALIESIN: Just a tap.

MATT: You find your way over, and sure enough, no
person has the leg density that Grog does, and

you're pretty sure you have your mark.

TALIESIN: Going to give it a good little whack.
Oh, I'm sorry! It's so hard to see.

TRAVIS: I'm sorry, I need to be more sensitive--
look out, it's a parrot! And I kick the sword.

MARISHA: A parrot?

TRAVIS: Yeah, there are rabid parrots out here in
the Feywild.

SAM: He kicked the sword.

TRAVIS: Oh, you know what? Just go pick it up.

(laughter)

TRAVIS: Let me get it for you. I'll hold onto it,
since you're obviously useless now. I go pick up

the Dragonslayer Longsword.

LIAM: I walk over to Percival. Percival, I'm
worried you're going to walk your glasses into a

tree or something. Do you want one of us to hold
those for the time being?

TALIESIN: I'll take them off and put them in my
pocket.

LIAM: Do you have something to put them inside of,
besides just the pocket? I don't want you falling on them.

TALIESIN: No. I've got a thing. It'll be all
right.

LAURA: Percival, would you like something to hold
onto as you walk?

TALIESIN: Actually, if you don't mind, can I
borrow a bear? Yes.

LAURA: Yes, of course. I pop Trinket out.

MATT: Okay. Trinket. (whoosh, bear noises)

LAURA: Hi, buddy!

MATT: Jowls shake as you rub your fingers into his
fur.

LAURA: Trinket, we're in a very weird place. A
weird place. Things can happen.

MARISHA: And I whisper to Trinket: don't crush the
flowers.

TALIESIN: I'm willing to try and make this work
for a moment.

LAURA: Trinket, can you help Percival walk? He's
blind.

LIAM: Matt! Pike is with us, right?

MATT: No.

LIAM: No? Okay.

LAURA: She's back in Whitestone.

LIAM: All right. I robot out once in a while on
Skype. I guess I missed that.

MATT: That's okay. All right, so you feel the
somewhat damp, cold nose of a bear nudge under

your hand, and then (bear noises) and a shoulder
lunges into you.

LAURA: Now don't walk him into any trees, Trinket
dear.

TALIESIN: Do you mind? I'm going to try and hop on
top. I'm going to make a leap to get on top of the bear.

MATT: Okay. It takes you a little while, but you
get up onto the bear eventually. You have to right

him because he's facing the wrong direction a
little.

TRAVIS: All right. So wait, can we be clear? You
picked a flower, all the trees got pissed off, you

went blind, some naked chick jumped a wall, and
that's the story of what's happened so far? We are

killing it right now.

LAURA: Don't touch anything.

TRAVIS: I feel like maybe we need a change in
leadership. Just saying.

MARISHA: There are very large consequences for
picking flowers.

SAM: All right, which way did she go?

LAURA: She jumped over the wall here.

SAM: Should we follow?

TRAVIS: Yeah. Vax? Can you get a pair of eyes on
her without going blind?

LIAM: I don't feel confident about that.

LAURA: I can try.

TALIESIN: Which direction was this pool?

LAURA: It's right past the ruins. Right there,
darling, can't you see? Grog, do you want to give

it a go?

TRAVIS: What? Go look for her?

LAURA: Just go see if it's her?

TRAVIS: All right. Fuck it.

LAURA: Be quiet-- okay.

TRAVIS: No. And I do a full vault over the wall.

MATT: You land, feet go (squelch) into the muddy
outskirts of the pond. It's about up to your

ankles, but you can see the water is now rippled
and disturbed.

TRAVIS: Can I stick my fingers in the mud. Does it
smell weird?

MATT: Smells like probably the freshest poolside
mud you've ever come across.

TRAVIS: I wipe it across my chest. Do I see any
footprints from where naked chick went?

MATT: No, none.

TRAVIS: What?

LAURA: She went in the water, Grog.

TRAVIS: She left no traces!

LAURA: She was in the water before.

TRAVIS: Does anyone want to come with me to the
water?

LAURA: I'll come with you to the water.

TALIESIN: I'll go with you.

TRAVIS: You're not going anywhere!

TALIESIN: Trinket!

MARISHA: I'll go get your eyes back! Okay.

TRAVIS: All right. I cautiously make my way down.
How far is the water? Can I see it from where I am now?

MATT: Yeah. It's about maybe ten feet from you.

TRAVIS: All right, I'll stealthily make my way ten
feet towards it.

MATT: Roll a stealth check.

TRAVIS: Son of a bitch.

MATT: You put it in the descriptor, man.

TRAVIS: I did. 17.

MATT: Okay. (squelching) You make your way, as
markedly quiet as you can.

MARISHA: I'm going to sit on the wall and watch
for a second.

MATT: Okay. You come up to the edge of the water,
and you can see some of the ripples are starting

to lap across the mud. The mud and silt continues
downward into a perfectly clear pool, though the

light source has been cut off from the sky now as
the canopy has closed, and what little bit of

light happens to find its way through the forest
ceiling-- other than that, it's pretty dark.

However, you do have darkvision; a few of you do
have darkvision, so it's not a huge hindrance

within a certain distance. You do see what appears
to be clouds of silt on the bottom of the water

that have slowly found their way close to
resting.

TRAVIS: Can I call out: hello? 
Nothing?

MATT: No immediate response, no.

TRAVIS: Can I reach in the Bag of Holding and grab
a basilisk egg? And can I try to launch it as far

as I can into the pool?

MATT: Yeah. Go ahead and make a strength check.

LIAM: I'm going to scramble up next to Keyleth to
watch this.

MATT: Okay.

TRAVIS: 23.

MATT: 23. You lob the egg with perfect accuracy
directly into the center of the pool. It hits and

floats on the surface, semi-buoyant, with a little
bit of the shell revealed on the top. A few

moments pass before a few fingers curl up and grab
it, and pull it down below.

TRAVIS: Oh! I saw a hand!

SAM: Did you recognize the hand?

TRAVIS: No, I'm not like Ray Charles. I can't tell if
someone's attractive just by their hands.

MARISHA: Grog. Do you know how to float? Do you
know how to float on top of water?

TRAVIS: Yeah?

MARISHA: You should do that.

TRAVIS: You want me to put my body in there?

MARISHA: Right. Don't we want to talk to her?

TRAVIS: What if there's more than one her?

LIAM: It went really well for you the last time
that this happened.

MARISHA: Yeah! I figured it went well for you the
last time. You're the only one who's done this

before.

TRAVIS: Yeah, but there were these invisible
steps, right? I feel like we walked up some steps

and then there was a portal. And she came out
first! It wasn't like I went to her apartment and

I was like: Hey! Want to hook up?

LAURA: Hey. Does this look like the pool you came
into on the other side?

TRAVIS: Does this look like the pool I came into
on the other side?

MATT: Make an intelligence check.

(laughter)

TRAVIS: 11.

MATT: You were distracted for the brief time you
spent over here, but it does appear to be

similar.

TRAVIS: Similar?

LAURA: Remember her name?

TRAVIS: No! Did she have a name? Her name was
Nymph!

SAM: Why don't you call out her name?

TRAVIS: O Nymph! Where thee art thou?

MATT: Make a persuasion check.

TRAVIS: Oh shit! Seven.

MATT: You watch as suddenly there's a burst of
bubbles under the surface of the water.

LAURA: Scanlan! Whisper to Grog what to say to
draw a lady out. You're very charismatic. And

repeat what you hear Scanlan say.

TRAVIS: Okay. Well, you've got to come closer,
though.

LAURA: Use your earring!

TRAVIS: Oh yeah, we got earrings.

MARISHA and ASHLEY: Cyrano de Bergerac!

ASHLEY: Cyrano that shit.

SAM: O Nymph! Hear my call!

TRAVIS: O Nymph! Hear my ball!

SAM: Nope, call.

TRAVIS: Call!

SAM: Once, we spent an afternoon together.

TRAVIS: Once, we spent an afternoon together.

SAM: The sun never shone brighter.

TRAVIS: The sun never shone brighter!

SAM: The clouds were never quite as fluffy.

TRAVIS: The clouds were never quite as fluffy!

SAM: Oh, it would make me a man again to see you
once more.

TRAVIS: Oh. That was too much.

SAM and TRAVIS: Oh! It would make me a man again
to see you once more! I have a small dick.

MATT: Another burst of bubbles comes up on the
surface as the water begins to break, and you can

see a very beautiful, water-covered nude female
form that is laughing uproariously in the pool.

(laughs) "Oh. It has been some time."

(gasping)

SAM: It's her!

MATT: And she takes her hair off to the side and
gets the water out of it and shoves it over her

shoulder. She steps up, and this time her feet
touch the surface, and she walks on it like it's

solid. As she begins to step carefully towards
you, "I apologize for being, well--" And she

points over towards him. "I would recommend in the
future, perhaps, a more respectful means of arrival."

MARISHA: (stage whisper) Sorry!

MATT: "If I recall, your name was Grog, is that
correct?"

TRAVIS: That's right, my lady. Forgive me, your
beauty has wiped my mind. Your name was?

MATT: "Nala."

TRAVIS: Nala. I shan't forget again.

MATT: "I watch over this glade. It is bound to me
as I am to it. I would hope that in the future

"you'd be more gentle with that that resides
here."

MARISHA: Sorry. I'm a huge fan is all. Hi. I'm
Keyleth, by the way. Of the Air Ashari--

MATT: As you're talking at this moment, there's a
sudden sparking sound, like a heavy log has fallen

in a forest with a crack and a thoom. There's a flash of light
and she instinctively turns and then dives beneath

the water once more. As you guys glance over,
there's a somewhat shimmering form of light that

congeals into a small gnomish female flickering in
and out. As Pike, after coming back from your

goodbyes and walking to the temple of Pelor now
constructed to take at least a moment to begin

building a bastion for Sarenrae worship here, as
well, you miss your friends so hard in that moment

that, for a brief moment, the divine energies give
you one last brief moment to walk beside them

across the planes.

LAURA: Pike! It's been five fucking minutes.

ASHLEY: Don't we have a gatestone? I'm sorry! I
didn't want to stay.

SAM: Is it because I owe you two gold?

ASHLEY: Yes!

SAM: Okay, here it is!

ASHLEY: Okay, bye!

TRAVIS: Buddy!

ASHLEY: Hi, buddy!

TRAVIS: What the fuck did you just do?

LAURA: You missed the naked chick! There's a naked
chick. She blinded Percival with her beauty.

ASHLEY: Oh, wow. Well maybe we can take it. Where
is she?

TRAVIS: Yeah, she went back underwater. Wait, do
me a favor. Look, maybe everybody take a knee and

be real chill while I throw down this swag, all
right?

ASHLEY: Sorry. Did I come in at a bad time?

SAM: Well, you cockblocked Grog a little bit.

ASHLEY: I'm sorry, Grog.

TRAVIS: I was on fleek and now I'm on flock.

ASHLEY: Oh no. Well, let's fix it. I had to come.
The Feywild, you know? I know we just said bye,

but I had to come. All right, let's do this.

LAURA: We all get down on a knee.

TRAVIS: Nala, it is a friend, not a foe. She's
with me, and a great ally of ours.

MATT: With that, Nala steps back through the
water, taking invisible steps up to the top of the

surface, where you're pretty much up to your waist
in the pool at this time. She's now standing

directly on the surface about ten feet from you.
She looks out and looks towards you. "I remember

"you, as well."

ASHLEY: Hi. I remember you. (stammering) I didn't
mean to startle you. I didn't know everyone was in

the middle of something.

SAM: (whispering) She fucked her, too.

MATT: She met all of you guys.

MARISHA: Oh right, for a hot second. But then she
took Grog--

SAM: Of course we remember that thing that
happened when we were drunk two and a half years ago.

(laughter)

ASHLEY: I do apologize again for startling you.

MATT: "It's all right. Not many things happen in
this glade these days, so when they happen

"rapidly, it tends to drop my heart a bit. Speaking
of which, do you still carry my heart with you, Grog?"

TRAVIS: As you know, my lady, of course I do.

MATT: She turns her head. "I don't sense it on
your person."

TRAVIS: Oh! Right. An actual-- No, I don't. We
needed it for something. Yeah, so when last I saw

you, I had this horrible bunk in my chest? It was
terrible. And in combination with your heart, I

was able to remove it and prolong my life. Which
means I'm here.

MATT: "Glad you're safe. I shall begin the process
of creating a new one, then. I'm glad it served you well."

TRAVIS: It did, thank you. Many, many thanks. And
you have our apologies again for beheading one of

your flowers and for making all the loud snapping
noises. This is not the way we wanted to start,

believe me.

MATT: She puts her hand up and nods.

MARISHA: I Druidcraft a Tal'Dorei daisy and give
it back to-- I didn't mean to hurt your flowers.

MATT: She nods and laughs. She brings her arm up
and as she does, a singular vine seems to grow up

out of the muck and curl up, and take the daisy
from your finger and drag it off into the forest.

MARISHA: Sorry.

TRAVIS: If I might ask, old bleachy-hair over here
took a look at your beauty and all of a sudden

went (raspberry) and can't see anything.

MATT: "That's a hard lesson learned."

MARISHA: Can you not get it back?

TRAVIS: Nope, he's blind forever.

MATT: "It doesn't work that way. I'm sorry."

LAURA: How does it work?

MATT: "For the most part, those that fall under my
protective gaze, they've earned it. Don't consider

"past that. And my innate talents do not reach
beyond that striking, so I'm sorry."

TRAVIS: Yeah, totally cool. We're going to put
some Braille on your gun.

LAURA: I bet Pike has a few tricks up her sleeve.

ASHLEY: I think I could give it a go, with some
things.

MARISHA: Do you have Regeneration on you today?

ASHLEY: (quietly) Yeah.

TALIESIN: I think it's probably mystical.

MARISHA: I could attempt a Dispel Magic first.

SAM: Maybe you're just this way now, and your
other senses will get better.

MARISHA: You could rock it for a while.

TRAVIS: You said it's been very calm around here.

MATT: "Yes."

TRAVIS: No unexpected visitors or commotions
lately?

MATT: "Not around my glade, no. I'd know."

TRAVIS: May I introduce to you Vex'halia?

MATT: "We've met, yes."

TRAVIS: Yeah, that's right. I forget. She's
seeking something in this place.

LAURA: Yes, actually. We all are. Have you heard
tale of a sick tree? Something very cancerous on

the land.

MATT: "There are trees that fall under various
states of corruption time and time again in the

"Feywild. Light and darkness stands eternal here."

LAURA: This one holds a bow at its heart.

MARISHA: It's located in a bog?

LAURA: In a bog. Something about glass?

MARISHA: Near the river of the Gilded Run?

MATT: "The Shademirk Bog."

MARISHA: The Shademirk Bog. That's the one!

MAT: "That is roughly two days duskward from
here."

SAM: Duskward? That's west.

TALIESIN: Or what passes for west.

LAURA: I just started a page on the Feywild and
now it's already-- there it is.

TRAVIS: Nala, I'm sorry. I'm very simple. Is
duskward actually west?

MATT: "Duskward is towards the dusk." She points.
As she puts her finger up, you can see the trees

relax now and open up the sky above you, and you
can see the direction where most of the setting

sunlight is being cast into the sky, and she
motions in that direction.

TRAVIS: Are you controlling the way the trees
move?

MATT: "This is my glade. We are one."

TRAVIS: Yes. It's very impressive.

MARISHA: Man, can you teach people how to do that?
Because that's awesome.

SAM: We'll be moving on before then.

MARISHA: You know what? I'll talk to you later
about it.

SAM: Have you heard anything of this bow or this
tree?

MATT: "I have not. I stay here. This is my home,
and I am bound to it to not wander too far. What I

"know of the Shademirk, I only know through
individuals who passed through and kept me up to

"speed with things that may or may not be
transpiring in this landscape, but those meetings

"are tens of years, if not more, between."

LAURA: Wow.

LIAM: I'm sorry. Have there been any significant
changes of late? Cities here that didn't exist but

a while ago?

MATT: "Not to my knowledge, no. My understanding
of realms beyond this wood and beyond this glade

"are fairly limited beyond what I've been given by
passersby, and it's been not since you, Grog,

"stepped through with me. I've not had another
cross my path."

LAURA: Sounds lonely.

MATT: "It is my life. The trees keep me company.
The roots, they speak. The earth itself is

"sustenance and the voice, the timeless voice of
this land-- well, there are many stories here."

TRAVIS: She's so sweet.

MARISHA: I really like her, yeah.

TRAVIS: As we make our way towards this area, is
there anything that you would warn us of?

MATT: "Everything."

TRAVIS: Oh. Everything.

TALIESIN: Like don't pick the flowers.

SAM: Is there anything specifically we should
avoid? Specific plants, colors?

TRAVIS: Hands in the pocket policy going forward?

MATT: "Gauge with care that which you tamper. Many
things lie and live in these lands that could be

"of aid and many, your own destruction. Words
spoken by many who live and call the Feywild their

"home are in themselves riddles. Deceit is their
common form of time passage, and those that wander

"from beyond, well, some would consider you more of a
toy or a plaything than a visitor or passerby."

TRAVIS: Before we leave, is there anything we
might bring you on our way back through here,

should we be successful?

MATT: (laughs) "Bring me some books."

TRAVIS: Books?

MATT: "I'd like some books."

TRAVIS: My kind of books? Pictures?

MATT: "Pictures are always nice, but things to
tell me of things beyond my sphere. Perhaps the

"world you come from. Beyond the Frostweald, I know
very little, as well."

LAURA: I have a book on me. Would you like it?

MATT: "Take whatever you wish to say goodbye
with."

LAURA: Well. I basically have it memorized at this
point, I've read it so many times.

MATT: She takes it and thumbs through.

LAURA: That'll be 30 gold.

(laughter)

LIAM: 35.

LAURA: 50 gold.

TRAVIS: Markup's a bitch.

MATT: Closes it. "Thank you."

LAURA: Thank you.

SAM: Before we set out. You've told us what to be
wary of: everything. Is there anyone out there we

can trust if come across them?

MATT: "Depends on what you seek and what your
reasons are. Trust goes all ways. The difficulty

"is finding who is aligned with your ideals, your
intentions, and your goals, and who isn't. I trust

"practically no one. Sorry."

TALIESIN: I'm sorry, were you talking to me?

SAM: She's talking to you.

LAURA: What were those little colored lights that
disappear as we get close?

MATT: "Oh! Feyspecks. They are small entities that
care to the underbrush of the forests here.

"They're not dangerous."

LAURA: Do they lead you anywhere?

MATT: "I'm sure they lead you many places, though
none of them may be where you're trying to go. I

"wouldn't trust them to guide you. They themselves
are very deceptive and trickery-loving entities.

"But they help me keep the glade in the forest."

LAURA: I was wondering if you have any sort of--
you're very well-versed with this area. Any form

of protection you could offer us or recommend to
us as we move forward in this confusing land?

LIAM: Any last bit of advice.

MATT: Make a persuasion roll.

LAURA: 26.

MATT: She thinks for a moment, holding the tome
under her arm. "Well. I have minor magical

"capabilities. Perhaps I could harden the
physicality of one of you, in a way to aid. It

"won't last long, but it's something."

MARISHA: Any assistance is more than greatly
appreciated.

LAURA: Maybe Grog?

TRAVIS: No, I definitely don't need it. I'm good.
Who's all tender?

SAM: Percy, at this point.

LAURA: Oh. Well, that's true.

SAM: How many of us can you embolden?

TALIESIN: I'm a bit useless at the moment.

SAM: No, don't sell yourself short. You're great.

TALIESIN: You know I know what you're doing right
now?

MATT: She steps forward, and as you're having this
conversation, she puts her fingers towards the

front of your forehead and touches your skin. You
feel a surge of warmth through your body, though

blackness still takes your vision. The rest of you
watch as his skin suddenly turns to a dark brown

and crackles. For a brief moment, you fear, but
notice it's like his physical form, all parts of

the pinky flesh of the human Percy become hard
like tree bark.

LAURA: Oh, that's attractive.

TRAVIS: You got wood.

LAURA: How's it feel?

MARISHA: I sniff Percy.

MATT: It's like a fine cedar.

MARISHA: It's nice. It suits you. It's very
masculine. It's a musk.

TALIESIN: Thank you. I'm still angry with you, but
thank you.

SAM: Grog, carve your name in him.

TRAVIS: Yes! Oh my god. Holy shit.

TALIESIN: I put the pistol slowly in the direction
of his voice. My lady, I do appreciate your gift,

and I do apologize for my friend and for startling
you earlier. It is my deepest regret that I cannot

take in the majesty of your realm for the moment.

LAURA: (laughter) Of your realm.

MATT: "Well. Keep your wits about you. That's the
finest defense you have against this uncertain

"landscape."

TRAVIS: It was a true joy seeing you again. We'll
try to bring ourselves by this way on our way out

as we can.

MATT: "I appreciate that. It is good to see your
faces, as brief as it is."

TRAVIS: Well, wish us luck.

MATT: "Good luck and safe travels."

ASHLEY: Bye, Nala.

MARISHA: As we walk away, I give Percy a wet
willie.

TRAVIS: I bow to her before I leave.

LAURA: Yeah, we do that, too.

TALIESIN: Does she go for the wet willie?

MARISHA: No, I give you a wet willie.

TALIESIN: Are you trying to give me a wet willie?
I use missile snare.

TRAVIS: (pointedly) I bow before we leave.

MARISHA: It's not a ranged attack.

MATT: So you bow. She turns around and begins to
walk back down the invisible steps you see her

taking, as she drifts deeper into the water, and
actually, before she disappears beneath the

surface, looks over her shoulder and smiles at
you, Grog, and then disappears beneath the water

below.

LAURA: Be honest. You totally (tongue click).

TRAVIS: What?

LAURA: Did you?

TRAVIS: I what? What's wrong with your mouth?

LAURA: Did you get it on with her?

LIAM: Copulation, Grog. She means did you do the
thing.

TRAVIS: Population? No. There's no population in
that. I think it's just her in that.

LAURA: All right.

LIAM: Did she like the beard, though?

LAURA: Oh, that's right, you didn't have a beard
before!

MATT: As you guys are having this conversation,
there's a brief sound as Percy, even amongst his

blinded state, catches Keyleth's finger in
midair.

MARISHA: I still don't say that's a ranged
attack!

TRAVIS: Gross. While the children play, I make my
way towards the dusk direction.

LAURA: Toward the Shademirk.

LIAM: Wait, hold on. I believe I was standing next
to Keyleth, so I stick my pinky into my mouth and

I shove it into Percy's ear.

MARISHA: Wet willie is happening!

MATT: All right. Flanked by wet willies, Percy,
one is halted, but in the distracted moment and

the stealthy rogue being what he is, you feel the
slimy insertion of a single half-elven digit into

your ear canal.

LIAM: And I say: Keyleth, that is really immature,
really. What is the matter with you? And I walk off.

TALIESIN: Still angry at you.

ASHLEY: We should fix you.

MARISHA: Consider that payback.

(laughter)

TRAVIS: Is there any rocks or debris or little
pebbles around on the ground?

MATT: Yeah. There's plenty of stone debris.

TRAVIS: I'll take a small pebble. Pike, you really
should do what you can to help Percy.

ASHLEY: All right.

TRAVIS: And I toss the pebble at his face.

(laughter)

TALIESIN: Missile snare? With disadvantage?

MATT: Make a perception check.

TALIESIN: Okay.

MARISHA: See, that is a ranged attack.

TALIESIN: 26.

MATT: He catches the pebble out of the air.

TALIESIN: My kung-fu is far stronger than yours.

SAM: All right, Pike. Do your thing.

LAURA: I don't know if he needs it.

TALIESIN: I have dreamed about coming here since I
was a little child. I'm going to see this!

ASHLEY: Okay.

LIAM: Wait, let's all think about this for a
moment. Don't do anything hasty.

(stage whisper) Everybody, let's back up slowly.

MATT: It gets really quiet suddenly, Percy.

TALIESIN: I'm on a bear.

MATT: Yes. Trinket stops and (bear noises).

LAURA: (stage whisper) It's okay, Trinket.

SAM: (stage whisper) Pike, if you do this thing
that you're going to do, will it take away his

Barkskin, too?

ASHLEY: I don't know. That's why I'm a little
nervous.

LAURA: Well, you know. That's how it goes.

MARISHA: You know, and to be fair, Barkskin, it's
all right.

TRAVIS: Maybe it's temporary.

MARISHA: Barkskin is temporary.

TRAVIS: No, I mean the blind part.

MARISHA: Oh, the blindness? I don't know.

TALIESIN: You're all wearing your earrings. It's
dangerous as it is, but--

LIAM: It's clearly hilarious, but Percival is our
sharpshooter. I don't know if we want him--

LAURA: He is one of our sharpshooters, thank you
very much.

LIAM: Well, why would we want one when we could
have two?

TRAVIS: Let's try it, then.

ASHLEY: Yeah, a blind sharpshooter might not be
the best in the Feywild. I would throw it out there.

TALIESIN: Be a shame if your broom breaks.

LAURA: It really would. Hey, I want to heal you!
All right?

MARISHA: Do you want to be healed or not, Percy?
Jeez, first you say you're mad at me and then you

ensnare my melee wet willie--

SAM: People! We're tearing ourselves apart in the
Feywild.

TALIESIN: I'm just reminding the dear what side
her bread is buttered on.

SAM: Let Pike get rid of this blind spot so we can
all be together again.

TRAVIS: It's masterful.

LAURA: How long has he been working on that?

TALIESIN: Wow. Okay.

LIAM: Critical Role, where you come for high
fantasy.

LAURA: Give it a go.

MARISHA: Wait. Percy.

TALIESIN: What?

MARISHA: Say you're not mad at me anymore. Say:
Hey, I know I've done things in the past to piss

you off--

LAURA: Trinket, come here!

MATT: All of a sudden, Trinket lurches forward and
starts dragging him.

TALIESIN: Am I a reckless human?

MARISHA: Yes.

TALIESIN: So when I say you shouldn't probably
touch anything, there's probably a really good

reason, right?

MARISHA: Yeah. Are you going to hold this one
against me because I picked a flower, like how you

held the Clasp against me?

MATT: Trinket's been dragging him away from you,
towards her.

MARISHA: Hold against me like the Clasp?

SAM: Do you need inspiration, Pike?

ASHLEY: No, I think it's okay.

TALIESIN: I'll have my revenge, but I love you.

MARISHA: It's okay.

ASHLEY: Get my way up Trinket and cast Greater
Restoration.

MATT: Okay. So as you clutch your holy symbol,
your flickering divine form drifts over towards

the side of Trinket. You reach up and touch his
leg, and the warmth of the divine energy surges

through his leg. You can see it almost like a
sparkle up his chest, little light rays peering

out from beneath the clothing. It comes up his
gullet, up the side of his face, and his eyes

flash white, with beams of gentle sunlight
shooting out for a second. The darkness becomes

blurry, and your vision over the next 15 or so
seconds returns to normal.

TALIESIN: Oh!

ASHLEY: You see?

TALIESIN: Yes, much better. Hi! It's so good to
see you.

ASHLEY: Does he still have Barkskin?

MATT: Yes.

LAURA: Yay!

MARISHA: I come up from behind and give him
another wet willie!

TALIESIN: (yelps)

MARISHA: See? I got you even when you had your
eyes.

TALIESIN: I'll make you a deal.

MARISHA: All right, what?

TALIESIN: Come here.

MARISHA: What?

LAURA: Can we start moving forward? Yeah, we leave
them.

MARISHA: All right. We'll keep moving.

MATT: You guys catch up with the rest of the
party, who's now moved on ahead. Making your way

through this thick forest, I would like you all to
make a perception check.

SAM: Perception check?

LAURA: Perception check.

TRAVIS: Nice. 19. Natural 19.

LAURA: 27.

TALIESIN: 11.

MARISHA: 25.

SAM: Oh, ten.

ASHLEY: 14.

MATT: What did you get, Liam?

LIAM: 24.

MATT: 24. Okay. 25s or higher, which I think is
Keyleth and Vex. You guys push through the forest

for about another two hours or so.

MARISHA: While we do that, I take Percy's
Barkskin, and I regal it out. I give him moss

epaulets, grow some flowers on it, give him a
little Whitestone flower crown. I'm making him a

fancy tree.

LIAM: A druidic Sergeant Pepper?

TALIESIN: Now we're even. Good.

MATT: All right. Two hours of travel towards the
direction of the dusk, keeping tabs on it the best

you can, you being the tracker you are, you notice
that the night hasn't come. The light in the sky

itself has not changed. The dusk hasn't waxed or
waned; there's been no change in the sky light or

color whatsoever. The dusk seems to have for the
last couple hours been perpetual and unmoving.

TALIESIN: Maybe we're in the dusklands.

LAURA: I feel like I remember hearing that the
time here is very strange.

MARISHA: It stays at a constant, correct?

TALIESIN: Well, not necessarily.

LAURA: Maybe it moves slower here. I don't know.

MARISHA: We are moving towards dusk, correct?
We're moving towards the setting sun?

MATT: You're moving towards that. That was the one
direction you were given by the nymph, yes.

TALIESIN: It could be that we are either stuck in
a loop or that we simply in an area of the Feywild

that is eternal dusk.

LAURA: Does it feel like we're moving forward?

MARISHA: She said it was two days' travel.

SAM: Two dusks' travel.

TALIESIN: So we have to pass a dusk, at least.

SAM: That could be years.

TALIESIN: It could.

LAURA: Do you think it's safe if I fly up and look
at the sky?

TALIESIN: No, but you might as well. Nothing's
safe.

MARISHA: Do I see any birds or anything like that
in the sky? Any wildlife? Any critters?

MATT: Make a perception check.

ASHLEY: Any critters?

LAURA and TALIESIN: Critters everywhere.

MARISHA: Sorry, 21. Yes, 21.

MATT: Yeah, okay. You glance up at the next
opening you have in the canopy, and you see

occasionally a flock of birds go flying by. There
is definitely vibrant wildlife, and you've seen

throughout the forest here skittering squirrels
and other creatures that live here, though

themselves being skittish and running off as soon
as your footfalls begin to hit that portion of the

forest. There is a very vibrant critter lifestyle
here within this part of the Feywild.

LAURA: I'm going to try flying up. All right, I'm
going to try flying up above the canopy.

MATT: Okay. You come up above the canopy. Have to
maneuver around some of the larger branches, and

these trees are tall. You probably get yourself a
hundred feet up before you finally break the

canopy, and as you coast over the top you can see
now before you, this forest is vast. The majority

of it behind you, and you can actually see what
appears to be the edge of the forest's line maybe

about ten miles up, and past that you can see
rolling grass hills before a mountain

line. You can see in the distance, a very far
distance-- make a perception check.

LAURA: I'm assuming I'm not in the forest anymore,
right?

MATT: This would be looking beyond the forest, so
yeah, it would not have advantage.

LAURA: 17.

MATT: 17. You see a faint glimmer of some kind.
Something that stands out, it's like a reflection

or bead of light amongst the grass fields beyond
the forest. You're unable to really tell the

distance, but it does stand out as it occasionally
flickers.

LAURA: Flickering. Do I see any sign of a city?

MATT: Not from this perspective, no. Mostly, it
looks natural from this view. Also, the clouds in

the sky are slowly moving like normal clouds, and
you can see in the distance what appears to be a

sun that has passed beyond the mountain range, but
there is no change in the light.

LAURA: The sky looks the same?

MATT: Same it was since the moment you arrived.

LAURA: Well, at least we know we've made some
headway. I go back down. There's a tree line, at

least. I think we should reach it soon.

TALIESIN: And if we don't, then we know that
there's a problem.

LAURA: Right.

TALIESIN: And remember: in theory, from what
little I know, the prettier it is, the more

dangerous it probably is, and the older it is, the
more dangerous it probably is.

MARISHA: What, things get prettier as they get
older here? That's not fair.

SAM: Just the men.

MARISHA: Damn it.

TRAVIS: All right, let's keep going, then.

MATT: Okay. You guys push on for another three or
so hours--

LAURA: We're not out of the tree line yet?

MATT: At the pace you guys are walking, you just
begin to push outside of the trees. It was hard

gauging the distance from that period of time;
that was the rough estimate based on the

perception roll. You begin to watch the tree line
thin a bit. There's still many trees around you,

but the density's beginning to scatter, and you're
beginning to see more and more light let through

from the treetops, and the trees themselves are
not as tall as they were towards the central bulk

of the forest. Vex, you do catch to your left side
something that sounds like at first a little hiss, but

instead it comes to your ear as a chuckle.

LAURA: Hello?

TRAVIS: What?

ASHLEY: Did you hear something?

LAURA: Is somebody there?

MATT: Make a perception check.

LAURA: Ooh! Natural 20.

MATT: Natural 20. You glance out of the corner of
your eye, and you see about four trees behind you

some outline of a shaded figure that darts behind
a tree.

LAURA: (stage whisper) Did anybody else see that?

ALL: What?

LAURA: Okay, cool. Did it look childlike or
adultlike?

MATT: In between.

LAURA: Oh. Okay.

LIAM: We got a problem here?

LAURA: Just be ready.

SAM: Which direction?

LAURA: Behind us. I saw you!

MARISHA: Let's get back-to-back, shall we?

TALIESIN: I'm going to sit backwards on the bear
while we move forward.

MARISHA: I'm going to go back-to-back to the
twins.

LAURA: Did you want to say hello?

MATT: No response.

LAURA: All right. I guess we'll have fun over here
without you.

TRAVIS: Are you sure you really saw something?

LAURA: Laugh like I told a really funny joke.

(forced laughter)

TRAVIS: You kill me. Oh man, who would want to
miss this?

SAM: I didn't know a nun could curse like that.

LAURA: So funny. Anything?

MATT: You guys continue making your way towards
the edge of the forest, and shortly after, the

tree line does come to an end. There are small
clusters of trees, but beyond that, you're now

opening this nearly-endless grassland, the grasses
themselves swaying with the breeze that is

starting to catch up. You can see the waves that
curl over these low hills, and this beautiful,

deep verdant green-emerald color that shifts and
cascades over and over and over.

As you begin to step into the grass, it's high.
It's chest-high to the half-elves. A little below

waist-high to you, and the gnomes are swimming
through grass, at this point.

TRAVIS: Hey, buddy.

ASHLEY: This is fun, though.

TRAVIS: Do you want to keep staying down there
doing the breaststroke?

ASHLEY: No. I'm done.

TALIESIN: It occurs to me, I don't actually have
to ride the bear anymore.

LAURA: That's true. Do you guys want to ride
Trinket and see?

SAM: No, thanks. I'll ride Grog.

TRAVIS: Yeah!

ASHLEY: I'll ride Trinket.

MATT: You hop on Trinket.

LAURA: Do you still have Barkskin? Nice.

MARISHA: He looks good, too, right?

TALIESIN: She's done me up.

ASHLEY: I give Trinket a scratch where it makes
him go weird and start scratching his neck.

MATT: (bear noises) He reaches up and gives you a
lick, but it pseudo-passes through your form, and

Trinket looks really confused and tilts the bear
head to the side.

ASHLEY: Sorry, buddy.

LAURA: Oh! As we're walking, first question: do I
see any form of path through this grass?

MATT: It's open field. Directionless and before
you. There is still the dusk ahead of you. That's

the best directional point you have right
now, but there is no worn path. There is no road

or street. There are no signs of civilization. It
looks like an endless field.

LIAM: I've played the original Legend of Zelda. I
know if we go up, left, down, left, we should get

out of this field.

MATT: Shoot the bush.

LAURA: The flicker of light I saw in the distance.
Are we going to intersect it in the direction that

we're going?

MATT: You will get near it.

LAURA: Okay, so I'll keep an eye in that direction
as we move forward, but I want to talk to you,

Keyleth.

MARISHA: Yeah?

LAURA: I've been trying to find out a way to talk
to Trinket like I know you can, right?

MARISHA: Oh?

LAURA: I was wondering if maybe you could teach me
how to do that?

MARISHA: (gasps) Teach you?

LAURA: Do you think that's possible?

MARISHA: I don't know! But I'd like to try.

LAURA: Okay!

MARISHA: Yeah, that would be fun. Okay. Can I do
something like that?

LAURA: I have a spell slot available for Speak
With Animals that I never claimed that I want to learn.

MATT: You want to take it? Okay. As you guys begin
to walk through the field, you begin to reveal

some of the druidic secrets of animal
communication to Vex, and over the course of the

next hour of travel--

MARISHA: See, the thing is, you have to get the
accents right for each critter, or else they could

get a little offended.

TRAVIS: And you're the point of access.

MARISHA: Totally. I keep going.

MATT: She bestows upon you the elements of it.
It's less about vocality. It's about being able to

connect on an empathic and emotional level, where
creatures can speak to you less out of words and

more out of the idea of emotions and thoughts,
which our human minds-- or in some cases,

half-human minds-- accept as words. There is no
actual speech that they're talking, like,

"Hello, my dear!"

MARISHA: So one of the things that I like to do is
embody the animal, and that can get you in the

mindset.

LAURA: I will definitely keep that in mind.

MARISHA: Let's practice being Trinket together.

LAURA: I let her do that, and I'm going to keep
walking normally.

MATT: She does it for a while.

MARISHA: I go up to Grog. (sniffs, groans)

LAURA: I'm learning so much.

ASHLEY: I think we're all learning. This is so
great.

SAM: I wish Nala had cast Blindness on me.

(laughter)

LAURA: Can I walk up to Trinket and say: Hey,
buddy. Can you understand me?

MATT: Do you cast the spell?

LAURA: Yeah!

MATT: Trinket turns to you.

LAURA: Do you understand me?

MATT: "Yes."

LAURA: (screams) I hug him so hard! Oh my gosh!

MATT: You grab him. Trinket doesn't seem to
realize any sort of difference.

LAURA: Could you understand me all the time?

MATT: "Yes."

LAURA: Oh, darling, but now I understand you, and
it's wonderful!

MATT: "Okay."

LAURA: Okay, quick question. Do you mind being in
my necklace, or does it bother you? What's it

like? Is it terrible? Because I don't want to do
it if you hate it.

MATT: "It's a little lonely."

ASHLEY: Oh no!

MATT: "I haven't been in there very long."

LAURA: No, you haven't. Okay. Well, that's good.
Well, I basically wanted to say that I love you so much.

MARISHA: I give her a thumbs up.

MATT: "I love you, too, Vex'ahlia."

LAURA: (sobbing) I start crying!

MATT: A big lick upside your face, and nudges his
head against you.

LAURA: Oh, this is the best spell ever! I can't
believe I didn't know it before! Trinket! Thanks,

Keyleth!

MARISHA: The accent's really good. You're doing a
good job. It's very good.

MATT: As Trinket nudges you, he says, "It's okay.
I can stay in there all you need."

LAURA: Thanks, buddy.

MATT: "I can watch you through there. I can see
you."

LAURA: You can? Wait, you can?

MATT: "Yes."

LAURA: Cool. It's like when your dog comes in the
room when you're peeing. It's a little awkward at

first when you hear about it, but it's fine. It's
okay. I'm fine with it. Whatever.

MATT: Grog, you've actually been in there, so you
have an idea of what he's talking about.

LAURA: If you understood what he was saying, which
you don't!

MATT: Boom, what!

TALIESIN: I'm imagining the genie bottle.

LAURA: For a while, as long as my spell lasts, I
want to keep talking to Trinket and catch up on

old times.

MATT: You guys do, and he talks about how he hated
at the time, but has in hindsight enjoyed the

memory of the pie contest in Whitestone.

LAURA: Oh, right. That was so good, right?

ASHLEY: What about getting his hair done with
flowers and braids and bows?

MATT: He tells you that was fine, but you can tell
through the subtle bear undertones that he wasn't

too happy about it. But everything has this tone
of basically whatever you need, and anything for

you. There is an undying loyalty and love from
Trinket that you've always felt, but now to hear

in language form is very moving.

LIAM: I'm watching quietly the whole time with a
smile at this bear that I've known as a cub

grunting with my sister grunting back, and it's
very touching.

LAURA: I love the Feywild.

TRAVIS: I think the whole thing is fucking weird.

MARISHA: Keyleth wipes away a little tear.

ASHLEY: Same. I'm sitting on Trinket, wiping away
tears.

LAURA: We're walking.

TRAVIS: We've been walking this whole time.

MATT: You guys keep walking. And you keep
walking.

SAM: We still haven't hit that tree line?

MATT: You're past the tree line. You're in the
grass, but it's hard to really gauge, since you

have no sun in the sky and you don't have a
central timepiece of any kind.

LAURA: Do we feel tired?

TRAVIS: Well, hold on. Can I spin around and see
if the grass we've been trampling on is leaving a trail?

MATT: No. None. No trail. It's like you never
stepped through behind you. The grasses parted

where you walked through, and then, looking
behind, it's like you were dropped in the middle

of a field.

TRAVIS: Is anything following us?

MATT: Make a perception check.

LAURA: There was that kid that we talked to.

ASHLEY: Good call.

TRAVIS: A deathly eight.

LAURA: There was a creature in the woods.

TALIESIN: That you saw?

LAURA: I saw it.

TRAVIS: Nothing. We're good!

ASHLEY: Can I perception check?

MATT: You can make a perception check, as well,
yeah.

TALIESIN: Vex, do you feel like getting a little
bit of a bird's-eye view really quickly, perhaps?

ASHLEY: 14.

MATT: Glancing about, a smooth grassline.

TRAVIS: We're clear. Team monster!

ASHLEY: No one's following us!

SAM: What about this? Keyleth, can't we move
through the trees?

TALIESIN: We can't. There's no trees.

SAM: Just grass?

MARISHA: I will turn around. How far away are we
from the treeline?

MATT: From where you guys left?

MARISHA: Yeah.

MATT: It's visible, but it's quite a ways away.

MARISHA: We have been moving away.

MATT: Yeah. It's the rolling fields and hills.
It's comparable to the width of the valley between

the Cliffkeep Mountains and the Stormcrest
Mountains on Tal'Dorei. It seems like such a vast

space, with no immediate scattered landmarks. In
your head, which is used to gauging your position

from small changes in the scenery, it's
mind-numbing. It feels like it's endless.

LAURA: We have food. We're on our way.

SAM: What if this is a week's journey? What if
this is two weeks' journey?

MARISHA: She said two days south.

SAM: She said two dusks south. What if this is a
month?

MATT: She said two days duskward.

LAURA: Two days duskward. See? Two days.

LIAM: Does that mean two days into dusk or two
days that last an eternity?

LAURA: Two days. It's two days.

MATT: She said two days duskward.

TRAVIS: We're fine.

MARISHA: But you were saying she was using two
days in a way that we would understand?

LIAM: We don't know.

TALIESIN: I'm feeling pretty confident about this.
I'm not having a lot of stress about this.

TRAVIS: Let's keep grooving. Sun's up.

TALIESIN: Until it's time that we all think it's
time to take a rest, and we'll take a nap.

LAURA: Yeah. When we feel tired-- I do want to
make sure that nothing's following us on occasion,

and make sure that nothing is around.

TRAVIS: We checked it out. We're solid.

SAM: Should one of us circle back and make 
sure that no one's behind us?

LAURA: We'll get separated.

MARISHA: We'll never find each other again.

SAM: All right, then we're going to keep going,
and I'll keep reading my book on top of Grog.

MARISHA: Do we still see the flashing light in the
distance that she saw?

MATT: Only at times, because when you go below the
hills into these deep valleys, before you come to

the next hill line, it cuts off your perspective.
But as you get close, make another perception

check, Vex, as you're keeping an eye on the back
of Trinket.

LIAM: Wait, you said Vax. Do you mean Vax, or do
you mean Vex?

MATT: I said Vex.

LAURA: 18.

MATT: 18. The source of the glimmer is becoming
larger, but you can't make out any details. There

are actually a few glimmers, clustered. It's one
of those things where it's not perpetual. Every

now and then you see it.

LAURA: We are heading towards something. I'm not
sure what it is.

MARISHA: Is it erratic?

MATT: It seems erratic, yeah.

TRAVIS: Something's on fire.

TALIESIN: It's a party.

SAM: Press on?

TRAVIS: Yeah!

LAURA: What else are we going to do?

TRAVIS: Definitely nothing here.

TALIESIN: We press on until it's time to rest.

MATT: You push on for a few more hours, and trying
to think back how long you've been here, the time

passes in a strange way to the point where you
have no way of understanding how much time has

gone by, but you're starting to get a little tired
like you would towards the end of a day's worth of

travel. You come up over a large hillside, and you
can see now, there's a base of a mountain range

that you can make out a little bit in the distance
that meets up where that flickering is. You can

see what appears to be now the source of the
flickering. There looks to be some sort of a

civilization. There are towers. There appears to
be a stone ring around it. It's hard to make out

the details from this distance, but it looks
fairly large. It's in the side of the mountain range.

TALIESIN: I say we camp here. I think it's a
lovely idea.

TRAVIS: What's around us? Grass fields, pretty
much?

MATT: Just grass fields.

TRAVIS: Far as you can see?

MATT: As far as you can see, and then the hill
line eventually gets so high in the distance where

you can't see past it. You see the mountain range
and whatever the source of this glimmer is, this

strange, city-like series of structures at the
base of that mountain range.

TRAVIS: Yeah. Let's set up shop, drop.

LAURA: Can I fly up on the broom and see if I can
see anything in the field around us or look for

any movement in the grass?

SAM: Don't forget your hat!

LAURA: I put my fucking hat on.

TALIESIN: It suits you. It's lovely. I'm going to
use my optics to try and sketch what I can of the

city for the moment and get a general idea of it,
sitting down and starting to get an idea of it.

LIAM: And does it look like anything from my
sister and my memory?

MATT: Go ahead and roll a perception check on your
end, as well, Vax.

LAURA: And me?

LIAM: 20.

MATT: As you're getting up, sure, go ahead and
make one, because you get a better view, as well.

LAURA: 25.

MATT: 25. Vax, it's hard at this distance to make
out much of the information, especially with the

grass being as high as it is, and the hill beyond
it. For the most part, the folks that can get a

clear bead are those that are above the grass line
and keeping a keen eye, which Vex is.

LAURA: Oh, whispers! Whispers!

ASHLEY: (singing) Whispers in the night!

SAM: This is the anticipation that you feel before
you open a Loot Crate! Not knowing what it could

be. Could it be good? Could it be bad? What you do
know is that it's $3 off if you use the code

criticalrole.

TALIESIN: Don't try and Super Saiyan me.

MARISHA: Amazing.

TALIESIN: Oh, not quite.

MARISHA: Almost. Wait, maybe the bigger one?

LAURA: He's been chewing on that, just so you
know. In addition to that, do I see anything in

the grass around us?

MATT: From what you can see... every now and then,
you see tiny little bits of movement in the grass,

maybe a quarter mile one way. You can see a
similar type winding shape in the grass a mile or

so the other way. It's even further out. There are
other things moving in the grass, but none of them

are breaking the grass surface. But they appear to
be singular, at least in the shifting of movement.

You do catch a smaller source of movement in the
grass, no more than 30 feet off from where the

rest of your party is currently walking.

LAURA: Can I fly down near it?

MATT: Yeah. You swoop down, and over view of that,
you can see what appears to be a small humanoid

that is curling through the grass line. Looks
human. Big, thick curled beard, very coarse dark

hair. A muscled torso; stocky, but strong. What
appears to be a light blue vest that's covering

the upper part of the torso, most of the buttons
missing, and the bottom of it tattered and worn.

The hindquarters themselves are fur and come into
cloven hooves, and you can see a small pair of

horns hooking off the back of the head. This
individual is skulking through the grass, carrying

a small book and a long quill, and he's
occasionally leaping up over the grass line,

landing, and then drawing something in the book.

LAURA: Does he see me?

MATT: He does not see you at the moment, no.
You're overhead.

LAURA: I want to float down above him on the broom
and lay down on the broom and say:

What are you drawing?

MATT: As soon as you come down and whisper, the
tome slams shut. The figure stands up straight,

slowly turns the eyes towards you, and you can see
the dark and ruddy skin, the sun-touched nose and

cheeks, a darker, more leathered texture to them,
but the eyes are piercing ice blue as he looks

back into yours. "Nothing."

LAURA: Nothing at all?

MATT: "Just taking notes."

LAURA: On those people up there?

MATT: "Yes."

LAURA: Oh. Interesting.

MATT: "Because why not?"

LAURA: Why not? You know, you probably could get a
better view of them if you were riding on this broom.

MATT: "You see, if you're worried, it's not me you
need to worry about. It's him." And points past

your shoulder.

LAURA: I'm not looking. I'm not falling for that!
Nope! Can I insight check him and see?

MATT: Make an insight check, yeah.

TALIESIN: I love this place.

LAURA: 16?

MATT: 16? He seems like a slippery person in
general, though he is caught off guard and right

now is in self-preservation mode. It's hard to
gauge if he's telling the truth or not.

LAURA: I'm not going to bite you.

MATT: "I don't-- I'm not a biter. I'm not the
biter in this area." And he starts backing up

towards the grass.

LAURA: Can I fly down and grab his wrist and fly
up?

MATT: You grab his wrist and fly up? (whimpers) I
need you to make a grapple check. Go ahead and

make an athletics.

LAURA: Oh, okay.

TRAVIS: I love it.

LAURA: Athletics? Oh, great. 15?

MATT: He pulls away, and as your hand grabs his
wrist, he attempts to slip his hand out. Fingers

pull through from your grasp as you double over
your other hand and grab him by the elbow. You

lift up and pull him out of the grass field, now
dangling his little feet in the middle of the air.

As he's being dragged up, the quill gets dropped,
and he looks for it, and the book's tumbling out

of his hand. He grabs the book and clutches it to
himself. "What are you doing?"

LAURA: Now I spin around and see if there's
anything behind me.

MATT: There is nothing visible in the vicinity.

LAURA: Sneaky little fuck!

MATT: "Please! This is really high!"

LAURA: It really is. I think we should go say hi
to my friends, don't you?

MATT: (whimpers)

LAURA: We're in need of company, dear. And we fly down.
Hello to everyone.

MATT: You drag him down, the broom coasting right
over the grass line, presenting you and your new

compatriot to the rest of Vox Machina.

LAURA: Well, look at this friend I just found!

MARISHA: Look at you!

MATT: Dangling from her grasp.

SAM: Grog, grab him!

LAURA: Gentle, Grog. Gentle.

MATT: "Hey, friend. You look like a smart fellow.
Let's have a conversation."

SAM: Don't talk to him.

TRAVIS: What is this?

LAURA: What are you?

TRAVIS: What are you?

MATT: "I am but a simple wanderer and an
individual who enjoys learning about things that

"are new and different."

SAM: Squeeze him.

LAURA: Don't squeeze him, Grog.

ASHLEY: What's your name?

MATT: "Garmelie."

ASHLEY: What was it?

MATT: "Garmelie."

ASHLEY: What are you reading?

MATT: "I'm--"

ASHLEY: What are you reading?

MATT: "Nothing! No reading!"

LAURA: No reading, just drawing. Percy! Our friend
Percival here, he likes to draw, as well.

TALIESIN: I do, quite a bit. Let's see your work.

MARISHA: Oh yeah, compare notes!

MATT: He tries to wiggle out of your grasp, but it
does nothing. You're concrete around him.

TRAVIS: With one of my fingers, can I give him a
little tickle?

MATT: (giggles) "No!"

TALIESIN: I'm going to very gently put my hand on
the book and take it.

MATT: It's a very finely bound book. The leather
is impeccable. It's oiled. There's a brass

metallic trim around the edges of it and the
binding. There is a thick piece of red velvet

strip that is set as a bookmarker in the center of
it.

TALIESIN: May I?

MATT: (whimpers)

(laughter)

ASHLEY: That's the best face ever.

LAURA: Garmelie, I saw what you were drawing, and
it was quite lovely. Don't you want to share?

MARISHA: What's the matter? Are you scared?

LIAM: You might want to tell us what's going on
before we figure it out for ourselves. This is

your chance.

MATT: "There's really nothing going on. I was
curious and taking notes."

TALIESIN: I've been taking notes myself.

MARISHA: Yeah, you guys should compare notes.
Cross-references are always good.

MATT: "You wouldn't understand."

MARISHA: You could help us.

TALIESIN: Do we have that Hunk of-- not that
that's going to help here.

MARISHA: The Hunk of Quall? It's expired.

SAM: I'll step forward and put my hand on his
shoulder and say: Listen.

MATT: By the way, he's being held up by Grog right
now.

SAM: On his toe, then. I'll say: Listen, little
man. I'm little, too, and you have nothing to fear

from us as long as you cooperate. I will cast
Suggestion on him, and I will suggest that he

fully cooperate with us and tell us all he knows.

MATT: What's the DC?

SAM: Well, I didn't use the hand cone, did I? So
18.

MATT: Okay.

TALIESIN: Is the book safe to open?

MATT: As you, touching his leg and looking up at
him, there's that shimmer of purplish energy in

your eyes, and he gives you a look. "Right, no
worries. No problems whatsoever. Whatever you need."

MARISHA: Can I go find his feather quill that he
dropped?

MATT: You don't know about the quill. You know the
book that he had.

MARISHA: Okay.

SAM: Tell us. Can we open the book?

MATT: Do you want to try to open the book?

TALIESIN: I'm asking, is it safe to open? For me?

MATT: "Yes, it's quite safe."

TALIESIN: What's at the bookmark, may I ask? And I
slowly start to open it at the bookmark.

MATT: "It's where I'm currently making notes."

TRAVIS: Please be nudie pictures.

TALIESIN: I'm gently opening it.

MATT: All right. The picture you come to, as of
right now, is a very finely detailed sketch of

Grog. Very well drawn, but he has bulging eyes,
big buck teeth, and a very tiny penis.

(laughter)

TRAVIS: What do you see?

TALIESIN: He's brilliant. He captured everything.

TRAVIS: What's it a picture of?

SAM: He's a little shithead!

TRAVIS: Has he drawn us?

TALIESIN: I turn it.

SAM: Don't kill him, Grog!

LAURA: There's nothing wrong with drawing a funny
picture.

SAM: Art is subjective.

MARISHA: Oh man, he nailed you, Grog.

TRAVIS: What other goliath has been tromping
through this place?

MATT: "Many! So many. That's one of them."

TALIESIN: I'm going to start gently flipping
through some of the pages.

MATT: There are drawings of the entire party, but
with extremely exaggerated cartoonish parody

features. For Pike, her head is extremely large.

TALIESIN: Like Six Flags Magic Mountain caricature
vibe?

MATT: Yeah, with a hint of Mad Magazine. It's
essentially a book full of dickbutts. It's him

drawing and vandalizing the image of a number of
you guys. There's a picture of Vax and Keyleth

that are both covered in poo and slapping it on
their face. Written in Elvish, "I love this!" with

a word bubble. It's essentially a kid entertaining
himself with a bunch of stupid pictures.

TALIESIN: This is an awfully expensive book to be
this shitty in.

MARISHA: Is this just your hobby? Your pastime? Or
are you an actual records keeper for whatever town

this is? Because both would be humorous.

MATT: "No. No record keeper."

TALIESIN: I'm going much earlier in the book to
see what's there.

MATT: You start seeing a number of elven
individuals. You see people in really nice regal

armor, but all of them are pooping themselves.
There's a bunch of elvish ladies with oversized

floppy boobs smacking each other in the face. It's
truly childish. But they're really well drawn and

well shaded! There is a serious talent to the
artwork. His skewed intent of imagery is

fascinating.

LIAM: I'm in the mood to hear this guy's life
story. Get him a cup.

LAURA: I love them. Honestly, I think you're quite
talented.

SAM: Should we make camp here and invite him into
the mansion?

LIAM: As long as he's secure, yeah.

MARISHA: What's the name of this little town here
that we see?

MATT: "That! That is the elven city of Syngorn.
They've been here for a little while, and they've

"been a gracious source of subjects."

MARISHA: And where do you live when Syngorn's not
here?

MATT: "I live wherever I please. I choose my place
to rest."

LAURA: Where do your clothes come from? Where do
you live?

TRAVIS: Do you have any family? Friends?

MATT: "I've got family and friends all over, yes.
They're just a ways away."

LAURA: So you know this area quite well.

MATT: "I know it well, yes."

LAURA: So you could potentially guide us?

MATT: "It's hard to guide when you're being
crushed by a giant green-gray man thing."

TRAVIS: I'm just saying, is there anyone that
would miss you if you're gone?

LAURA: Grog!

TRAVIS: What?

LAURA: Be nice to our guest.

MARISHA: We're in the Feywild.

LAURA: I have a deal for you. We could offer
you--

TALIESIN: Dinner!

LAURA: Dinner! Delicious dinner. Chicken. Have you
ever had chicken? It's so wonderful.

MATT: "Chicken?"

MARISHA: Also a bath.

LAURA: If you happen to lead us where we want to
go.

MATT: "Where do you want to go?"

LAURA: We'll tell you in a little bit.

TRAVIS: Yeah. Crack out the door, homie.

SAM: All right.

TALIESIN: And to sweeten the offer, after you've
had dinner with us and we send you on your way,

perhaps we will consider giving you your book
back. Perhaps.

LAURA: I fly off, and I go grab the quill.

MATT: Make a perception check. That quill fell in
the center of a tall grass field.

LAURA: I didn't even make it into the square. It
was pathetic. 27?

MATT: You spend the better part of the next 20
minutes realizing that there is no way you're

finding this quill amongst the grass. This is the
needle in a hay factory.

ASHLEY: Can I pat him down for any weapons?

MATT: Make an investigation check.

SAM: He's got seven dicks.

ASHLEY: Nine.

MATT: Best you can find throughout his body, the
only thing that catches your attention is a

now-crushed ocarina that he had on the inside of
his pocket that did not survive the grasping of Grog.

SAM: We can fix it for him.

ASHLEY: We can make you a new one somewhere.

TALIESIN: Give me the bits.

LIAM: Garmelie, we have a very bad track record
when we make friends. We have been burned badly a

few times, and I want to make it clear that you
will be watched while you're here. Come in, eat,

enjoy yourself, but multiple people here are
keeping an eye on you. Understand?

MATT: "I understand. Look, if we are to strike an
accord here, one of friendly trade of services, I

"would greatly appreciate it's done without this
very handsome, muscled-- "

TRAVIS: (sneezes) I sneeze right in his face.

MATT: You see it (drip) off his nose. "Without
this man trying to smash my innards, please."

LAURA: Grog, let him go.

SAM: Well, not go. Just put him down.

LAURA: Grog, put him down and put your hand on his
shoulder.

SAM: Are we making camp here? Should we get in the
house?

LAURA: Let's hold hands as we walk through the
door.

SAM: I'll cast the mansion. I'll sit down and
sing: (singing) My house is very, very, very fine

house! With chicken everywhere! Life used to be so
fair, but now it's better because of me!

(laughter)

MATT: As you finish the incantation, the
shimmering doorway of Scanlan's magnificent

mansion outlines within the grass field, only
emerging about a foot beyond the actual tallest

part of the grass. You have to bow down to get
into it. But you guys all enter, along with your

new friend, Garmelie, into the mansion itself.

We'll take a break there, and we'll jump back into
this crazed circumstance here in a few minutes.

We'll see you guys shortly.

[break]

MATT: Welcome back, everyone. A couple quick
things I forgot to mention at the top, as I guess

I can talk about it now. GenCon.

LAURA: Oh shit, we can talk about that?

MATT: I'm talking about it. They have a Critical
Role panel that they've announced in the thing

they put out--

SAM: Press release?

MATT: Yes, one of those. Emails, newsletters.
Thank you. Critical Role stuff happening. I will

be there all four days so panels and stuff coming
up. Cool. We'll have more info as that's unveiled.

But those of you going to GenCon, hopefully I'll
have some cool stuff ready for you then. That's

one mention. Also want to give another thanks
again to Loot Crate for being our awesome

sponsor!

(cheering)

MATT: Go to lootcrate.com/criticalrole and put in
the singular criticalrole word phrase to get your

$3 per month subscription discount. And we have
hit 20k subscribers, which is ridiculous!

(cheering)

MATT: I've just been notified that once we hit 25k
subscribers, that goal, whenever we reach that,

will be 25k and a talent show. I guess a lot of
the hosts and people involved with this show and

others have a lot of random weird-ass talents that
they want to reveal on the internet, because what

could possibly go wrong? So that's something to
look forward to. And we'll have other things

intermittently, giveaways and other goals, but
that's the next big goal that's been put out there

as far as I know, so I want to let you guys be
aware of that.

LAURA: My talent includes taming otters. I wish.

MATT: Is it the otter taming finger?

LAURA: No, that's my other stupid talent. But I
wanted an excuse to have an otter here.

TALIESIN: Shocking otters.

MARISHA: We missed the sloth, so if anyone wants
to bring out an otter, I'd be okay with that, too.

TRAVIS: You didn't miss anything. It moved super
fucking slow.

LAURA: Oh, it was magical.

ASHLEY: Maybe a baby panther.

MARISHA: That's so random, but I'm into it.

ASHLEY: I want one.

MATT: 22k and a red panda.

LAURA: 22k and a red panda! That's not official.
25k and a talent show, though, is real.

MARISHA: You're going to get an e-mail tomorrow
being like: Matt.

MATT: Unofficial!

ASHLEY: I don't want any zoo animals.

LAURA: I don't want any badly poached animals
taken from their environment.

MATT: Badly poached?

LAURA: I know, that was terrible.

SAM: I like a nicely poached animal.

MATT: There you go. Affectionately. All right,
guys, so back in the game. As you guys find your

way into the interior of Scanlan's magnificent
mansion, the individual, the fey creature known as

Garmelie, nervously walks along with you. What do
you wish to do before an evening's rest is taken?

TRAVIS: I stand at the door like a sentry.

TALIESIN: Let's have some food. Let's put two
guards on him.

SAM: I put 20 guards on him.

TALIESIN: 20 guards? That's a lot of guards.

MATT: A bunch of the servants (whoosh) shimmer out
next to him and he's like (nervous whimper).

"Hello."

MARISHA: Guys, let's have a carpet picnic tonight.
Can we have a carpet picnic?

LAURA: Is there a carpet here?

SAM: Yeah, there's carpet, but we have beds.

LAURA: Just a picnic?

MARISHA: Because we're in the Feywild. It seems
appropriate.

TRAVIS: We're not in the Feywild. We're in the
house.

TALIESIN: There's tables.

MARISHA: I just thought it would be fun.

LAURA: I would have a picnic with you, darling.

MARISHA: Thank you! I sit down next to the satyr
and I stare at him like this, a little bit.

MATT: "Hi."

SAM: What do we want to know from this little
twerp?

LAURA: Why don't we eat, and we'll get to the
questions in a little bit? Let's give him a rest.

I shocked him when I abducted him.

MARISHA: Do you shed?

MATT: "A little."

MARISHA: Do you grow a thicker coat during
wintertime?

MATT: "Winter-- seasons-- It's not really a thing
here."

MARISHA: Do you grow horns?

MATT: "They grew."

MARISHA: That's awesome.

TRAVIS: Would you care for any ale?

MATT: "Yes, please."

TRAVIS: All right. I crack out the big-ass cask of
ale.

LAURA: I would like some of that, as well, Grog.

LIAM: Pass it around.

MATT: You pass the ale around. He skulls it.
(gulps)

TRAVIS: Well, all right, Tiny Toons. Nicely done.

LAURA: Can I pull Vax aside for a moment and ask:
Do you want to go to Syngorn? We could avoid it.

LIAM: Well, we know no one here except for this
guy. We need to find you that bow. I don't relish

the idea of dealing with our father, but it seems
like our best bet.

LAURA: Right. Of course. We should go see them.

LIAM: Are you sure you want to, though?

LAURA: Of course, why wouldn't I? Please. And I
walk back to the group.

TRAVIS: I give the satyr another drink.

MATT: He greedily drinks it down.

MARISHA: Can I pet your fur? Is it coarse?

TRAVIS: Keyleth!

LAURA: Keyleth, that's a bit forward.

TRAVIS: You're so touchy today.

TALIESIN: I understand.

MATT: "So. If we're here to talk and make this
deal we're discussing, what is it you want from me?"

TRAVIS: Is he looking any more drunk?

MATT: A slight slur.

LAURA: Can I have some more ale, as well, Grog?
Keep it coming, all around.

TRAVIS: Yeah, fine.

TALIESIN: Honest opinion, what is the disposition
of the people in that city over on the hill? You

can be frank. We're not from around here. You
can't offend us with your opinion of them.

MATT: "It's a busy place right now. We haven't
seen the city of Syngorn in close to a hundred

"years, at the very least, and they have an entire
army building up right now. It's hustle and bustle."

TALIESIN: They have an army building up? Why is
that?

MATT: "Hell if I know. I just wandered through and
used that distraction to acquire a few things and

"make some fantastic notes."

LAURA: Acquire what?

MATT: "Things."

LAURA: Do you steal, darling?

MATT: "I don't steal. I borrow indefinitely."

TALIESIN: You just pinch small things, though,
like little gold trinkets. This is not really a

talent of yours, is it?

LIAM: Are we talking klepto stealing, or career?

MATT: "I take things that look nice that I think I
would want."

MARISHA: Where do you steal these things? Are you
a pickpocket?

MATT: "I am no simple street thief. I am a
procurer of wayward items and objects that need a

"better home."

TRAVIS: I think you should know that this door
that you walked through in this big house, if you

steal anything, it shreds you into ribbons when
you leave.

MATT: Make a deception check.

TRAVIS: Fuck. Six.

MATT: "Oh, I'm sure it does, big man."

ASHLEY: Well, it'll disappear if you take it.

LAURA: It certainly will.

MATT: "Well, good to know."

LIAM: Chicken in your belly goes, though.

MATT: "Look, I'm not going to take anything from
you. You've already proven far more of a match for

"me than I had ever anticipated, and what was meant
to be a simple, fun game of follow and-- follow

"has turned into a much more complicated
circumstance, so I'd like to get it over with as

"soon as possible."

MARISHA: Are you not having fun? We want you to at
least enjoy yourself.

MATT: "My quill is gone! You've threatened me and
my life!"

LAURA: I searched for it! Was it a special quill?

MATT: "It had sentimental value. I can get
another."

LAURA: I'm sorry.

MATT: "What do you want from me?"

SAM: We want you to take us to this place, this
mirk place.

LAURA: The Shademirk.

MATT: "You want to go to the Shademirk? Whatever
for? Why would you go to the Shademirk?"

LAURA: There's a very scary tree there.

MATT: "Yes. Why?"

LAURA: What do you know about the Shademirk?

MATT: "To stay the hell out of it, certainly. Want
to go to the Shademirk? Be my guest!"

LIAM: A little more than that, friend. A little
more.

TRAVIS: Your glass is looking empty.

MARISHA: You must know something, or else you
wouldn't stay out of it.

MATT: He takes it from you. He sloshes it around
and makes wild gestures. "It's a dangerous place.

"It's been a source of vileness and ichor here in
the Feywild for hundreds of years. It's a

"terrible, horrible cesspool of nothing. I'm so
sorry, this is getting everywhere."

SAM: Don't worry, the servants will get it. It's
terrible because of what dwells there, or because

of the place itself?

MATT: "Both! All of it!"

SAM: What dwells there?

MATT: "Creatures, things, trollish slime
creatures."

LAURA: Do you have drawings? Have you drawn things
from there?

MATT: "I sketched a thing or two."

SAM: Which page?

TALIESIN: Flip, flip, flip.

MATT: You take a moment to scan through, and there
are all sorts of creatures, all drawn stupidly,

many with extra private parts coming out of
shoulders and stuff. "Around page 163, 164." And

you see, and there are creatures all throughout,
but at that page in particular, you see a lanky,

tall humanoid that is oozing black, thick, viscous
tar. It's shaded in a way where it looks like it

has that glaze that only thick, oil-like
substances really give off. And it's dragging this

absolutely unnecessarily large dong behind it
about four feet. Every picture looks pretty good

to a point, and then you're like, "aw, really?"

LAURA: Garmelie, that creature. Is it very large?

MATT: "It's a little bigger than you."

LAURA: Oh shit.

MATT: Gestures and takes his drink back.

MARISHA: Does it have a name? What's this called?

MATT: "I haven't gotten close enough to it."

LIAM: But you know how to get there.

MATT: "I know how to get there, but it's not an
easy, let alone safe, route."

LAURA: Well, we'll protect you.

MATT: "So you're saying that as part of this
agreement, I will be your guide to the outskirts

"of the Shademirk? Because I am not going in
there."

TRAVIS: If you want your book back.

LAURA: Have you heard of a very large-- well, I
don't know if it's large. A very scary tree there?

Something poisoning the land?

MATT: "The land there is poisoned. I haven't gone
in there myself. I'm sure there's many poison trees."

TRAVIS: How far from here would you say it is?

MATT: "Day and a half, maybe? Duskward-seaward,
maybe?"

TRAVIS: He's been very helpful. Maybe he could
just point us in the direction.

SAM: No, we're taking him. We're taking him as far
as we can. We need guides who know the land.

MATT: "Then let us make the other side of this
agreement. You want me to be your guide, you'll

"give me back my book." He sets the drink down.
"Back my book, and--" He looks at the rest of you.

"You seem to speak like you know thievery, yes?"

SAM: One of us is a member of a thieves' guild.

MATT: "There's a few things in that there dreary
elvish city that I haven't the skills to procure,

"but if you wouldn't mind maybe borrowing them for
me in my stead, well, we've a done deal."

TRAVIS: Borrowing them indefinitely.

LIAM: What are we discussing, exactly?

SAM: Quid pro quo?

MATT: "If you will."

LAURA: I've got no problem stealing from any of
those people.

LIAM: Yes, but the devil's in the details. What
are we after? Tell me a little bit more.

MATT: "We make the agreement first."

LIAM: Say again?

MATT: "We make the agreement first. Consider it a
bit of trust!"

LIAM: Balls is what that is.

TALIESIN: Let us add an addendum, then. If we are
going to steal things from you, you will not only

take us to the bog--

MARISHA: But you'll take us to our final
destination.

MATT: "Nope, no. No Shademirk. I'm out. Sorry."

SAM: Or we could kill you here.

TALIESIN: Are we killing people?

SAM: We could kill him.

TRAVIS: Do I get to grab him again?

MARISHA: Remember, you have to be nice to things
in the Feywild. This is what we've learned.

SAM: We have a powerful position in negotiation.
I'm a master negotiator.

TALIESIN: No.

MARISHA: What is he doing?

SAM: Who's getting whispered to? Percy? Percy goes
blind again. Every five minutes.

TALIESIN: This is interesting. 17.

SAM: A roll and a re-whisper.

LAURA: The Feywild. Slippery. Sneaky.

SAM: This is crazy.

TALIESIN: Interesting.

SAM: He just said the C-word, the F-word, the
G-word!

MATT: "If it's that important to you to go to this
dark place, then keep the book, all right? I can

"draw more."

TALIESIN: I've got an idea. We broke your ocarina,
correct?

MATT: "Yes."

TALIESIN: Why don't I try and fix the ocarina? We
give him his book back, we take a couple things

from those people and get on our way? We could
just get on our way.

MARISHA: Not have him at all?

TALIESIN: No, let's make the deal and get this
moving. This is a place where deals happen. Let's

do it.

TRAVIS: But you're usually so picky about details.
What if he asks us to steal somebody?

LIAM: We're talking about a pantsless cartoonist
in the middle of fairy land.

TALIESIN: We agree to the deal, we present it, and
then we're there.

LAURA: If we can't steal the things, then the deal
is off.

MATT: "It's that simple. We both go our separate
ways, and good luck finding the Shademirk on your own."

TALIESIN: It's kismet, in my opinion.

LAURA: Well, I trust you, Percy, if you think it's
smart.

ASHLEY: Can I insight check Percy? Because he's
acting a little strange.

LIAM: Same.

MATT: You can make an insight check, but he's not
acting too far out of his normal place here.

LIAM: Yeah, but I've done insight checks before
because he's Percy.

LAURA: Did you do it?

ASHLEY: Yeah, but I didn't get anything.

LIAM: I got a 15. Balls.

MATT: It's an interestingly tense conversation.
It's hard to ride one way or the other, but it's a

valid point. If worse comes to worst, and what
he's asking for is beyond your grasp or something

that you wish not to do, then the deal is off and
you go your separate ways.

TALIESIN: We're in the Feywild. We're going to
make a deal with something. This is what the

Feywild is.

TRAVIS: All right. Fine.

LIAM: I turn to Vex. You like this idea? You want
to do this?

LAURA: I have no love for that city. I don't
care.

TALIESIN: I want to go there, too.

MARISHA: The people we're stealing from better be
meanies, though, and they better have deserved it

at some point.

LAURA: Ultimately, I would love to ask them to
help us in our fight. They're cowardly and stupid

for hiding, but we could use their help if they're
making an army.

LIAM: Possibly better equipped and better
educated, sorry, than this one here.

MARISHA: Well, Garmelie also said they were
strengthening up an army. Did they ever have a

standing army before?

MATT: They did.

LAURA: They did? Of course they did. They're a
city.

MATT: It wasn't a huge army, per se, but they had
trained forces, and they had a means of defending

their city.

LAURA: We had a fight instructor when we were
growing up.

LIAM: They're elves. They're very civilized.
They've all got sticks up their asses. They're

fucking elves.

TALIESIN: I can't wait.

MATT: "I like this one."

SAM: Are you going to fix his what-is-it-called?

TALIESIN: Give me your ocarina. Let me see if I
can get to work on it.

MARISHA: I can help Percy.

SAM: I will inspire Percy by singing. (singing) Go
ahead, Percy, and fix his ocarina! Take your

tinkering tools and fix his ocarina! You go,
Percival, you can fix his ocarina!

ALL: Hey, ocarina!

MATT: Take your d10.

MARISHA: Can I help with a Mending spell?

TALIESIN: You can help with a Mending spell.

MATT: Mending spell? Do you have the cantrip?
Mending is a cantrip.

LIAM: I thought she used it once before on
something.

MARISHA: I thought I used it as a ritual spell
before.

LIAM: You fixed that little Sarenrae doll.

MATT: Right. So you have the spell, correct?

MARISHA: I thought I learned it. I don't know.

LIAM: Oh jeez, here comes the internet.

MATT: Cantrips you have at all times.

MARISHA: Can I use it as a 1st-level spell?

MATT: What cantrips do you know?

MARISHA: Guidance, Druidcraft. I used Druidcraft
before, for the wooden thing. Can I use Druidcraft

to help this?

MATT: How would you use Druidcraft?

MARISHA: What's it made out of? Is it made out of
wood?

MATT: Actually, it's made out of clay, yeah.

TALIESIN: So I'm going to attempt to glue it
together, and then I'm going to need something to

hold the whole thing together while the glue
sets.

MATT: Okay. Using what materials are within the
workshop that you had before, there is a very mild

adhesive paste that you construct. Go ahead and
make a tinkering roll. This will be with your

intelligence modifier.

TALIESIN: That was a natural 20.

MATT: Very rapidly, with the things that are given
at your disposal, not even needing the materials

here, but what you have on you as part of your
traveling tinkering kit, you piece together a

nearly unnoticeable binding agent for clay and
dirt and earth-based materials. You manage to fix

the ocarina rather quickly, in a period of maybe
20 minutes, and with the help of Keyleth's

Druidcraft, dry it and manage to get it fixed.

TALIESIN: Your instrument, sir.

MATT: "Thank you. That's one good deed you've done
me today. I appreciate that."

TRAVIS: Don't forget about all them ales, yeah?

MATT: (whistles) It's awful. He doesn't really
know how to play, and it's like (off-key singing).

TALIESIN: It's quite nice.

TRAVIS: At least you can always draw.

MATT: "If I can find my quill."

LAURA: I'm sorry. I said I'm sorry. I looked for
20 fucking minutes. I looked, all right?

ASHLEY: I'm sure we could find you a quill.

LIAM: I've got one right fucking here. I pull the
black feather out from behind my ear and hold it

up. This is a very fine feather to sweeten the
deal. Don't fuck us over. And I slide it into the book.

TRAVIS: Don't give him that, Vax. It's too nice!

LAURA: No, it is really nice! I know you're acting
like he's lying, but he's telling the fucking truth.

SAM: Good lie, Grog.

LIAM: We've really been burned. I am really going
to punch you in the back of the head if you fuck

us over. Do you understand me? I don't like you.

MATT: "I like you! Well. Are we at an agreement?

LAURA: Sure, why not. Me?

SAM: Who's he shaking?

MATT: "Whoever your leader is! Shake my hand."

LIAM: Here, give me your fucking hand, you dirty
bastard.

MATT: Before you got your hand there, Vax, Vex put
her hand in, and both of you guys clasp both sides

of his hand at the same time. A trio handshake.

LIAM: I'm pretty sure he was talking to me.

LAURA: I'm pretty sure he was talking to me,
actually.

MATT: All right, so you guys shake hands with him.
You feel this shiver on your back as you shake

hands, and he smiles. "Very well. Now, we've
properly gotten acquainted. My sharper

"introductions are in order." He stands up and
wobbles for a second, a little drunk on the ale.

"My name is Garmelie. I am a simple joy finder of
the ever-shifting grasses, and I am happy to be

your guide for the remainder of this journey to
the outskirts of the Shademirk, and no further.

"Three things you wish you avoid as you progress
further. As we are traveling through the

"Moonbrush, alongside the Green Sea-- we could take
one or the other, your choice. Eventually finding

"our way to the Gilded Run, and from there on to
the Shademirk itself. I'll be leaving you at the

"outskirts of the Gilded Run, but it should suffice
for the journey you wish to have ahead.

"Things you wish to avoid. One, the Hut of
Wodenna. She's a terrible woman. You see a hut,

don't go. You may smell enticing things."

LIAM: Odenna?

MATT: "Wodenna. Delightful smells, sounds of soft
music, a gentle light across the shade and sea.

"Two words at once. I'm drunk. But do not go near
the hut. Avoid the hut. No hut!

"Two. Avoid the Last Campsite of Sorudun the
Happy."

SAM: Sounds nice.

LIAM: Yeah, that sounds fun.

MATT: "Avoid it. Trust me, avoid it. If there's a
campsite that's empty, looks happy? Avoid it. And

"three, avoid the theater."

SAM: I love the theater!

LIAM: Oh, that's good advice, actually.

MATT: "Avoid the theater."

SAM: Just in general, the theater?

MATT: "In general. I hate all theater. Let's avoid
the theater, please!"

SAM: I do an insight check.

MATT: Do it.

SAM: I don't know what I have. Terrible. 13.

MATT: He seems pretty perturbed by the idea of
theater.

LIAM: I'm changing my mind on this guy.

LAURA: Why should we avoid the hut? What does
Wodenna do?

MATT: "She's been around a while."

LAURA: She's a hag? Is she a hag?

MATT: "That's a name. Best to avoid. Trust me."

SAM: We do nothing but trust you.

MATT: "Great. Wondrous. And who are you, by the
way?"

MARISHA: We're Vox Machina.

SAM: The Slayer's Take.

MATT: "Vox Machina Slayer's Take. Very well.
Pleasure to meet you all, Vox Machina Slayer's

"Take." He holds his drink out for you to fill
again.

TRAVIS: How many fingers am I holding up?

MATT: "I don't care. Thank you. Now, the deal is
made, drink's been had, introductions have been

"properly given. I think it's time for bed." He
takes two steps forward, (thud) face-first in the

center of the main area, and starts snoring
loudly.

LAURA: Maybe we should move him to a safe location
that we can lock.

LIAM: With those 20 guards, right, Scanlan?

ASHLEY: Can I take his ocarina? Just for the
night?

MATT: Make a sleight of hand check.

ASHLEY: He's asleep, so do I get advantage or
something?

MATT: Make a sleight of hand check.

ASHLEY: Natural 20.

MATT: You sneak forward, and in a move that
would've made Vax proud, you pull the ocarina from

his grasp, show it to the rest of the party, and
tuck it away.

ASHLEY: I look over at Vax and give him a wink.
And Vex!

LIAM: That was primo, baby.

ASHLEY: Thanks.

SAM: Hey, Keyleth.

MARISHA: Yeah?

SAM: You've got magic. I don't entirely trust this
thing. We were told specifically not to trust

anything. Do you have any spell that can do
true-seeing, or that can restore him if he's

putting on this form, or that can dispel some
charm that he has around him or some aura?

LAURA: Maybe some sort of magical thing that he
put on me, because I'm pretty sure he cast

something on me and my brother.

MARISHA: Really? What happened? What did you
feel?

LAURA: A shiver. When we shook his hand.

MARISHA: Okay. Yeah.

ASHLEY: He never told us what he wanted you to
get, what he wanted to steal.

TALIESIN: No, he hasn't.

SAM: Pikey, do you have something that can reveal
some truth or dispel magic from him?

MARISHA: I actually have Dispel Magic right now.

LAURA: Can we try it? On me and my brother, see if
it cancels out whatever he just did?

MARISHA: I'll touch Vex and cast Dispel Magic and
see if anything happens. Wait, take off all

magical items first.

LAURA: Everything I'm wearing is magic.

MARISHA: Well, take it off.

TRAVIS: Yeah, take it off!

LAURA: What is it about this dimension that makes
us get naked all the time?

SAM: The hat is not magic. You can leave that on.

LAURA: Thank you. So I take off everything except
for the hat.

MARISHA: I don't want to risk dispelling
anything.

LIAM: I'm taking a short walk, all right.

TALIESIN: Every time I've seen anything attractive
and naked, it's gone very poorly today. I'm

walking away.

MARISHA: It's like wearing metal in a really hot
sauna. You just don't do it. Come on.

MATT: Roll a d20 and add your wisdom modifier.

MARISHA: All right. I'll do the big guy. Come on,
big guy. Oh, that's okay. My wisdom, just my

modifier? 22.

MATT: Okay. You cast the spell.

ASHLEY: Do you feel different?

MARISHA: That was a very high wisdom roll. Do you
feel anything?

LAURA: Do I feel anything?

MATT: You didn't feel anything in particular.

TRAVIS: Give it a minute. It might take a while to
take effect. Maybe do some jumping jacks.

LAURA: I'm definitely putting my clothes back on.

MARISHA: I can also try a Regeneration spell.

SAM: Wait. I think I can do something. I can sing
a song. That's mostly what I do, if you haven't

noticed by now. I have a power that I never ever
use. It's called Countercharm. I can counter charms.

MATT: As they're being cast. So you still can't
use it.

(laughter)

TALIESIN: I'm going to start gathering the
servants to pick the boy up and put him in his room.

MATT: And the 20 guards lift his form and carry
him off.

TRAVIS: Don't let him steal any of our shit.

TALIESIN: Everything would disappear, anyway.

TRAVIS: No, I mean our personal shit.

LAURA: Lock the door.

TRAVIS: Yeah, but what if he can do Scanlan's
thing where he goes through the door?

MARISHA: I have a feeling if he shook your hand
and did something, like Scanlan said, it's

probably a Pike thing, like a Remove Curse. It's
got to be something more like that. Mine is all

nature-based. I can try to Regenerate you, but I
don't think this would fall under that.

TRAVIS: She's fine. It was a draft. She needs to
wear more clothes. It's all right.

ASHLEY: Do you feel different?

LAURA: No, not anymore.

MARISHA: I have a feeling it's like if you stray
from a contract or something, you might feel it. I

don't know. That's what I would think.

TRAVIS: I'll go to bed. And I sleep on all of my
weapons and stuff. They're under me, on top of the

mattress.

MATT: Perfect. Everyone else go to bed?

MARISHA: I put a blanket over the satyr, and I pet
him, now that he's asleep. Is his fur coarse, or

is it soft?

MATT: It's pretty coarse.

LAURA: That is really creepy.

TRAVIS: Creepy, unconsented petting farm.

MARISHA: Okay, good night.

TALIESIN: I make sure everything's fine. I will
leave him his book, lock the door, and head up to

my room and lock the door behind me, as well.

SAM: I stayed up all night reading.

MARISHA: Are you going to take a point of
exhaustion for that?

SAM: I have to.

LAURA: I get very little sleep. I'm having trouble
sleeping.

TRAVIS: You are?

MATT: All right. So this is your second level of
exhaustion.

SAM: No, I slept last time.

MATT: Oh, that's right! You did sleep. Correct. So
you do take another point of exhaustion now, so

you're back to one point of exhaustion. So all
your ability checks are at disadvantage.

ASHLEY: How long does that take?

TALIESIN: A week.

ASHLEY: It takes a week? To memorize it?

SAM: I think it was 48 hours of reading over a
period of six days.

LAURA: Oh jeez.

SAM: Yeah.

ASHLEY: How close?

SAM: I'm on day four, I believe. And I'm up to 36
hours now, if this counts as ten, 12 hours.

ASHLEY and LAURA: Wow.

MARISHA: So you're close. Yeah, you're doing
good.

TRAVIS: Yeah.

MATT: All right. Anyone else doing anything?

MARISHA: I sleep, and I dream of fireflies and the
Feywild because it's so magical.

MATT: There you go.

ASHLEY: I'm going to get up early, but yeah.

LAURA: I'm going to get up early and try to fix my
hair and make it as pristine as I can and try to

clean off my clothes and everything before we go.

LIAM: I sleep like a baby in my armor.

MATT: All right. Percy, as you're getting ready to
go to bed, you feel this strange tickle at the

back of your head that dissipates.

TALIESIN: Is it what I think it is?

MATT: It is the fading of a Charm Person spell.

TALIESIN: Okay. Goddamn it.

MARISHA: Son of a fuck.

TALIESIN: And as I'm going to bed? Or as I wake
up?

MATT: As you're going to bed.

TALIESIN: Okay. Fuck.

TRAVIS: Did you fuck us?

LAURA: Percy was charmed.

TALIESIN: No, you don't know anything yet. I'm not
quite going to go to sleep yet. I'm going to go

see who else is still awake.

MATT: Okay. Scanlan is reading in his room with
the door slightly ajar.

SAM: Yes?

TALIESIN: The little fucker charmed me.

SAM: I knew it! I suspected it! That's why I tried
to use Countercharm, but I don't know how to use it.

(laughter)

SAM: Apparently, it's some sort of preemptive
thing. I have to read about it. Oh shit, I'm

already reading this! Goddamn it!

(laughter)

SAM: Anyway. What do you think we should do?

TALIESIN: I don't know what we can do.

SAM: Wait. When were you charmed? What did it
affect? What decisions did you make today that

were key?

TALIESIN: We made a bloody deal with him.

SAM: Well, we can always back out on the deal.

TALIESIN: Well, no, we can't, really.

SAM: What, is there some sort of blood pact that
we made?

TALIESIN: (sputtering) I don't know exactly how it
works. It's just in any book you read about the

Feywild, you make a deal and it's a deal and you
have to deal with it.

SAM: What does mean? You and I could go down to
his room right now and kill him and be done with it.

TALIESIN: I don't think that would work.

SAM: Would we be cursed?

TALIESIN: Maybe?

SAM: Haunted forever?

TALIESIN: Probably.

SAM: Oh man. That sucks. I don't want to be
haunted. That's for you and Vax!

(laughter)

TALIESIN: You would look lovely in eyeliner.

SAM: No baggage, man, no baggage. What do we do?
We made a deal with a devil of some sort.

TALIESIN: It was inevitable.

SAM: Is there a way to trick the trickster into
releasing us from the deal?

TALIESIN: Could be.

SAM: Because, you know, I'm a sly talker.

LIAM: When did this show turn into Rosencrantz and
Guildenstern Are Dead?

(laughter)

MATT: Right now.

TALIESIN: Right now. I'm going to have to tell the
others in the morning. I'm going to go see if

anybody else is awake. Oh god. Sleep well. Oh,
you're reading. Never mind. Don't sleep.

SAM: Now I've got to read about the fucking fey,
too.

TALIESIN: No. Finish your bloody book.

MATT: Keyleth is at rest, Grog is at rest, Vax is
at rest. Vex is still up, cleaning your garments,

you said, right? And Pike, you went to bed but are
waking up early, correct? So essentially, it's

just Vex who's awake.

TALIESIN: Vex.

LAURA: Yes?

TALIESIN: Little shit put a charm on me. I felt it
wear off about 45 minutes ago.

LAURA: Before we made the deal with him?

TALIESIN: Yes.

LAURA: Fuck, Percy! I made the deal because you
said it was fine!

TALIESIN: Well, I--

LAURA: It's fine. You didn't know. Well.

TALIESIN: Well, at least we know that he
definitely can't be trusted.

LAURA: It's our own stupid fault. We knew we
weren't supposed to trust anything here.

TALIESIN: I know. We've got to make sure that Pike
doesn't give him back his whistle, just yet.

LAURA: Why did you want to fix his whistle? You
just liked him.

TALIESIN: He was so nice! He was just so nice.

LAURA: Damn it. I thought you knew something we
didn't know. I really thought you did.

TALIESIN: I did. It's sadly what I knew was he's a
little shit. I just didn't know until about half

an hour ago. I hate magic!

LAURA: Percy. Change of subject. Would you say I
look put together? Well off? With this armor.

TALIESIN: In what sense?

LAURA: Well, you come from money, right?

TALIESIN: Yes.

LAURA: Right, so do I look like I come from
money?

TALIESIN: Does she look like she comes from
money?

MATT: That's entirely up to your opinion. You know
the attire she wears; you've traveled with her.

It's based on what you want to base that judgment
on, whether it be pure looks, the person inside.

It's whatever Percival thinks she would be in his
eyes.

SAM: (quietly) She's naked in a hat.

TALIESIN: (laughs) Honestly, dear, you're too
happy to look like you come from money.

LAURA: (laughs) I don't believe that.

TALIESIN: No, it's a sure sign of it, is an
abject misery, believe me. I can speak to it. You

look too much like you, and you don't look enough
like something you're supposed to be. If you feel

the urge to deeply bullshit, I'd be happy to help
you. It's not hard.

LAURA: No?

TALIESIN: No. It is easy to pretend you come from
money. You just have to be a bit of a shit and wear

what everybody else is wearing. Does this have
something to do with that city? It does, doesn't

it. Who's there?

LAURA: Well, you know. Everyone. We were judged,
growing up, and I don't look forward to seeing

that again.

TALIESIN: (sighs) Well.

LAURA: It's not important.

TALIESIN: Oh, I disagree. Dear, I think that if
you're worried about them knowing whether or not

you've made your money and made your fortune-- I
don't think that's going to be the thing to earn

their respect. I think you're better off, A, with
the company that you keep, and B, with the fact

that you're probably just better than most of
them.

LAURA: (laughs)

TALIESIN: I've known a lot of people with money,
and they are definitely not worth you. And

besides, if they have something nice that makes
you feel inferior, we can just take it.

LAURA: (laughs) I like the way you think.

TALIESIN: Well, and then they're just shit without
anything, and then you're you with their stuff.

LAURA: Thank you, Percy.

TALIESIN: You're welcome. I know it doesn't really
help.

LAURA: Will you stay at my side when we're there?

TALIESIN: Yes. And the outfit works. Don't change
it. Keep the hat.

LAURA: (laughs) All right. Good night.

TALIESIN: Good night. Sleep well.

LAURA: We'll sort out this charmed mess in the
morning.

TALIESIN: I'm sorry for my part in it.

MATT: So you guys go your separate ways. You find
yourself eventually to bed as the rest of the

group is asleep. Vex, you take a bit of solace in
the conversation, finish cleaning your things,

though it doesn't seem like the incessant
scrubbing you were driven on has much purpose, nor

the impact you thought it might at this point, and
you resign yourself to sleep for the evening. As

the evening comes to a close, Pike, you wake up
early. As you come out of your room, you struggle

with the view of 20 guards slowly shifting through
the foyer as a very hungover and groaning satyr

begins clomping through the main foyer, going,
"Breakfast, please? Please, breakfast?"

ASHLEY: Yes. Follow me to the kitchen.

MATT: "Yes! Someone they listen to! Thank you!"
Rubbing his eyes as he follows you into the

kitchen. He comes up onto one of the long benches
in the center of one of the main dining tables.

ASHLEY: I put down a cup of coffee for him, and I
run into the kitchen and get a very large-- oh no.

MATT: "Are you poisoning me?!"

ASHLEY: What's wrong?

MATT: "What is this?"

ASHLEY: It's coffee?

MATT: "I don't like coffee."

ASHLEY: Oh. What do you want?

MATT: "Something that's not coffee."

ASHLEY: Okay. Can we get him something that's not
coffee?

MATT: The servants look at each other, confused,
and wander off and come back with a carafe of an apple juice.

ASHLEY: Apple juice will be great.

MATT: "That is familiar. Thank you." He takes the
carafe.

ASHLEY: I run in the kitchen really quick and get
a very large piece of butcher paper.

MATT: Okay.

ASHLEY: Okay. So. Garmelie.

MATT: "Yes."

ASHLEY: I think you're so talented, and I wanted
to ask if maybe you could draw a family portrait

for us. The most ridiculous you can make it.

MATT: "What do you mean?"

ASHLEY: Just of all of us. I want to hang it above
the mantel before everybody wakes up.

MATT: "Well, it's hard to do without seeing the
subjects, but if you want to fill in the details?"

ASHLEY: Yeah, fill in the details.

MATT: "All right. Well, I need a quill or some
charcoal."

ASHLEY: Vax gave you a quill last night.

MATT: "He gave me a feather. It has to be refined
into a quill."

ASHLEY: Oh, I forgot. I think there's one in the
kitchen.

MATT: There is no quill in the kitchen, but
glancing around and asking the servants, there are

pieces of charcoal. There is charcoal available,
sketch charcoal.

ASHLEY: Okay. Can you use charcoal?

MATT: "Of course."

ASHLEY: Great.

MATT: "All right."

ASHLEY: Have at it.

MATT: "You first?"

ASHLEY: Sure.

MATT: "All right."

SAM: It's Leonardo and Winslet.

ASHLEY and MARISHA: Draw me like one of your
French girls!

MATT: You hear the gentle lyrical stylings of
Celine Dion swell in background as the satyr

quickly begins sketching your charcoal form.

ASHLEY: And remember, very ridiculous.

MATT: "I don't know what that means, but I'll do
my best." In rapid time, faster than anyone you've

ever seen sketch, his form almost becomes blurred
with the haste in which he draws, and within the

hour, he has completed an extremely well-detailed
portrait. And I mean portrait, as everyone is

standing shoulder to shoulder like a family above
a mantel, and it is grotesque. Horrifying. You

look like perhaps the Trickfoots had been keeping
the bloodline strong for a very long period of

time. Droopy face, one eye sinking below the
other. You don't even have the right number of fingers.

You see Grog in the back, who is as wide as the
rest of everybody, is behind them, this giant wall

with this tiny little head, with a tongue lolling
out to the side. It looks like he has one finger

as a thumbs-up and the other one's up his bum.

In the front, you see Vex and Vax, the twins, are
furiously making out in a really horrible display,

clutching each other. It's terrifying.

Keyleth is currently clutching the side of a tree
happily, and as she does, her eyes are going in

different directions, and the tree itself is
trying to push her off the branch.

You see Percy, who is extremely tall with this
squat, thin head with these giant glasses that

make his eyes bug-eyed and strange. You see a
little bit of scruff on the chin that's actually

turning into this long, awful, matted dingleberry
mess of a goatee, and he has both of his guns

pointed at his head.

Next to that is a perfectly defined, unchanged
portrait of Scanlan Shorthalt.

ASHLEY: I just wanted to hear you explain it. So
I'm going to take it and I'm going to paste it

above the mantel. I'm going to go back upstairs to
my room.

MATT: Okay. Eventually you all come to
consciousness, brought to the wonderful, welcome

morning scent of, once again, a chickenful
breakfast. You find yourselves down to a once

again passed-out satyr, slumped over the breakfast
table with two plates of mostly devoured chicken,

mashed potatoes, and a couple other side
elements.

LAURA: That sounds so good.

MATT: There above, on the mantel across the room,
is a glorious sketch of the family of Vox Machina.

TALIESIN: Charming.

SAM: Who changed my-- oh, I look pretty good.

MARISHA: This is brilliant. Wait, Scanlan, why do
you look normal?

SAM: I think we all look normal, actually. That's
how I see us, sure.

LAURA: This picture is disgusting.

MARISHA: I love it.

TALIESIN: No, that is awful.

MARISHA: You guys, we have a souvenir! We have a
souvenir from the Feywild!

TRAVIS: I think he wants a beating. That's what he
wants.

LAURA: I flick his head.

MATT: "Yes, what? What? Hi!"

TRAVIS: Why would you do that when we've been so
hospitable?

MATT: "It's a gift." Make a persuasion check.

ASHLEY: 15.

MATT: He goes, "I thought I'd leave you a little
present."

ASHLEY: I love it.

LAURA: Well, it's gross, but everybody else looks
quite wonderful.

TALIESIN: I sit down, right in front and across
the table.

TRAVIS: I guess I don't mind. At least I'm big.

TALIESIN: I like it.

LIAM: I think it's gross.

MATT: "Eat up, and we'll be on our way!" He
notices the tension from Percy and Grog.

TALIESIN: No, not yet. Not yet. Just so all cards
are on the table, we know that we agreed to a deal

last night, despite your charm spell on me, which
was--

MATT: "Defending myself! As was warranted."

TALIESIN: Fair play.

TRAVIS: You got charmed?

LAURA: I do think we should inform you, though, we
may have used a little magic on you. Sorry. Just

to make sure the deal was solid.

MATT: "I'm certain that was a necessary
precaution."

TALIESIN: Well, the deal stands as it is at the
moment, I suppose.

MATT: "Wondrous. I had hoped as such, because we
have much to gain."

ASHLEY: Wait.

TALIESIN: Yeah, no, he charmed me. He put a charm
on me last night.

ASHLEY: I had a feeling.

LIAM: So you no longer think it's a good idea to
enter into this agreement?

TALIESIN: Well, a little late.

MATT: "It is a little late."

ASHLEY: You never told us what you wanted.

MATT: "I'm going to show you."

LAURA: You're going to walk us right in.

MATT: "Something like that."

TRAVIS: Well, might as well.

MARISHA: What are you going to do?

SAM: Why don't you pet his legs again, weirdo?

MARISHA: You fascinate me.

MATT: "Good. That's not the first time I've heard
that."

TALIESIN: Friend, I applaud your cleverness. I am
excited by this deal, and I want to let you know

that, god forbid something comes up, where I come
from, the world I come from, I am possibly the

worst person you have ever met. And I think, I
hope, not necessarily to hurt you or harm you, but

I hope that one day you can know just how awful I
can be.

MATT: Make an intimidation check.

TALIESIN: 17.

MATT: (stuttering) "I hope it never comes to
that."

TALIESIN: Let's hope.

MATT: "I can make addendums to the art piece, if
you're unhappy."

TALIESIN: I love the art piece. Actually, since
we're on the subject, have you ever drawn yourself

before?

MATT: "Many times."

TALIESIN: I'd be curious to see one of your self
portraits. Are they in the book?

MATT: "No."

TALIESIN: I didn't think so. Self-reflection is
not one of my favorite pastimes, either. Anyway,

what are you looking for in the city?

MATT: "I'll show you. As part of the agreement,
it'll be unveiled upon arrival."

SAM: Sounds good to me.

LAURA: That's not sneaky at all. I fully trust
you.

MATT: "Great. Now, finish your food! Much to do.
Much to see. Much to take."

LAURA: I hate him now.

MATT: (off-key music)

MARISHA: No. We did that for you. Do not abuse
this. That's right.

ASHLEY: What are you doing with your hands?

MATT: "Where did-- What?"

TALIESIN: Where did what?

MATT: "They giveth, and they take away."

TALIESIN: Bless the small print.

MATT: "Well, then. Eat well." And he makes his way
toward the door, and the guards stop him there.

"I'll just sit here, then." And sits on the floor,
waiting for you guys to finish.

LAURA: What sort of magic did you cast on us?

MATT: "What do you mean?"

LAURA: What was the deal we agreed to? What will
happen if it breaks?

MATT: "Deals are meant to be kept. Should you go
against a deal that you've made, especially in

"here, these realms, there are consequences, so
don't stray from the deal."

TALIESIN: I think it's just a deal. I think deals
may be a big deal here.

SAM: So we can still kill him?

TALIESIN: I don't know. I think if it comes to it,
it's a possibility.

MARISHA: What happened to don't hurt or touch
anything in the Feywild?

LAURA: Yeah, we fucked that up, didn't we?

ASHLEY: Can I take out his ocarina and play a
couple of notes while I'm looking at him?

MATT: Sure. Make a performance check.

SAM: Performance check?

TALIESIN: That's a thing.

TRAVIS: Is this your first performance check?

SAM: You're definitely the right person to be
doing this.

ASHLEY: Yeah, right. 13.

MATT: 13. In a very rudimentary, kindergarten
recorder way: (off-key music) It's a little shaky,

but you get the hang of it. It's the only sound in
the room. It's dead quiet as you do this in the

middle of breakfast, with food being brought to
the table.

LAURA: That was amazing, Pike.

LIAM: Move over, Scanlan. Holy hell, that was
good.

ASHLEY: Thanks. I learned once.

LAURA: I don't think I've ever seen anyone play an
instrument that well.

SAM: Wait, hey. This is my house.

LIAM: Oh, look, the satyr's sad. What's the
matter, friend?

MATT: "She has my ocarina."

LAURA: Oh, that's terrible. Poor guy.

TALIESIN: You're clever. I'm sure you'll be fine.

ASHLEY: Maybe we'll give it back to you, but I
know what you did to my friend with this little

thing, so I'm not going to give it back to you.
Not just yet.

MATT: "Eat your breakfast."

ASHLEY: Already did.

LIAM: Somebody get this poor asshole a
handkerchief. He looks so sad.

MATT: He sits there and pouts. As you guys finish
your meal, laughing and enjoying yourselves.

MARISHA: As he pouts, I Druidcraft a little flower
crown for him.

MATT: He somehow recedes even further into his
grumpy self, his neck disappearing as his head

pulls into his torso.

MARISHA: He's so fun to mess with.

LAURA: We are really shit at making friends.

TRAVIS: So I'm curious. While we're eating, would
you happen to tell us what our first objective

might be?

LAURA: He's going to show us.

TALIESIN: I think it's time to make our way in.

TRAVIS: Yeah, I'm full.

ASHLEY: I'm going to walk over to Scanlan.
Scanlan!

SAM: What?

ASHLEY: I'm going to give this to you.

SAM: The Macarena?

ASHLEY: Yeah. Because I don't like performing.

SAM: You're really good at it.

ASHLEY: That's a lie. Just take this and maybe you
can charm some people with it. I don't know if

that's what it is, but I don't want him to have
it.

SAM: Thank you. I will try my best.

ASHLEY: All right. Let's go.

TALIESIN: Can't believe I wasted a natural 20 on
his-- Sorry. I'm good.

MATT: You guys finish your breakfast. The guards
come with you and escort you and your ally outside

the door. As you exit, the--

MARISHA: Wait. Take and roll up the painting, the
charcoal drawing that he did and put it in the Bag

of Holding.

LAURA: It's going to disappear as soon as we take
it out! Leave it in the mansion. That way it'll stay.

TALIESIN: It's from the mansion, so it'll stay in
the mansion.

MARISHA: Will it stay in the mansion?

MATT: You've tried taking things out of the
mansion, and they've turned to dust.

MARISHA: But I know things will also get ejected
from the mansion. Okay, I'll leave it.

MATT: You take it down, talk, put it back up. No
worries. As you guys exit the mansion, the dusk

light of the sky has not changed. You get the idea
here, at least since you've arrived, that there

has been no movement in the sun. You haven't even
seen the sun. The light source of dusk beyond the

distant mountains and horizon is stuck in the dusk
hour, with the threat and curl of midnight in the

opposite direction, the dark blue coming over the
horizon, unmoving. It also is raining gently.

There is a rather heavy cloud that has come over,
and it's not a terrible downpour, but a gentle

rainfall has been here for a while, and the floor
between the grasses is quite slushy as you step

out. (squelch)

SAM: Let's go to the city.

MARISHA: Vex? Should we be dressing for the
occasion? Should we put on our nice cloaks?

TALIESIN: We do have nice cloaks we could wear.

SAM: I think we're going to be sneaking in to
steal things.

LAURA: No, there's no way we could sneak in.

LIAM: We're going to go in and make introductions
and get settled and then figure out what the fuck

we're doing.

MARISHA: Yeah, cloak me.

LAURA: With what?

MARISHA: Our nice cloaks.

LAURA: He has some fancy cloaks, unless he's used
them all.

TALIESIN: Am I still made of wood, by the way?

MATT: No, that faded with the night's rest.

TRAVIS: I don't have fancy robes. I do have your
fancy winter stuff.

TALIESIN: It's raining. It's not like Hawaii rain.
It's rain, I would assume? It's not chilly, but cold.

MARISHA: I'll cloak up. Try and look like I made
some sort of effort.

TRAVIS: All right, Keyleth gets a cloak. Do you
want some nice shit?

TALIESIN: Oh, yes.

LIAM: I'm not changing anything.

SAM: How long will it take to get to the city from
where we are?

MATT: A few hours, maybe.

LAURA: Can't you craft something to keep the rain
off of us?

MARISHA: I'll do a little cantrip Gust over top of
us to make one of those air umbrellas that would

never work in real life.

MATT: Okay. You guys would have to get close
together to do that, but it's doable as a cantrip.

She keeps this general revolving sphere of wind
above that scatters most of the rain to the sides.

For the most part, Grog, you still get pretty damp
because of your size and difficulty, but most

everyone else can stay pretty dry as you cluster
together, walking through the grass.

You travel for another hour or so before the grass
towards the outskirts of the mountain range in the

city begins to slowly subside. It grows thinner
and shorter, and you come to a bit of marshland,

almost. Treeless, open marshland with little
bushes in clusters. Anything you guys want to--

LAURA: Perception check? See if I can see anything
moving ahead of us?

MATT: Okay, perception check.

LAURA: 29.

MATT: Okay. As you guys begin walking into the
marsh, you can see there are areas where it's

elevated mud patches, where it's very shallow
water, maybe an inch at most, and there are a few

different areas that get noticeably deep and
murky. You watch to avoid those elements. You're

not sure what might be beneath, if anything, but
you naturally move through this terrain carefully.

You do notice that, occasionally, upon this walk,
you see, different from the rest of the bushes and

pieces of terrain, these deep bluish purple sprout
leaves, almost like carrot tops, very leafy plant

top emerges in places, occasionally clusters of
two or three. There aren't a lot of them, but many

of them occur throughout the walk in this swampy
landscape.

LAURA: Garmelie? What are these?

MATT: "Oh, these are best to be avoided. They're
mandrake. Don't disturb them. Don't pull them out.

"Don't do anything with them."

MARISHA: Mandrakes? Oh, cool.

LAURA: Let's leave it.

TALIESIN: I've read things about those.

LAURA: What's this?

TALIESIN: That's just a thing. Just read it.

LIAM: It's a potted screaming baby. Leave them.

MATT: "Best left to the side." You guys make your
way through the marsh, occasionally passing by the

mandrake tops, until it begins to subside, the
marshland itself, and you come towards the base of

the city before you.

You see a massive, ivy-covered wall of jade-like
stone surrounding a dense cluster of towering

trees unlike those in any of the surrounding
forests or the one you left. It is an open plain,

and then within the city walls, there are trees
emerging many stories into the air. Trees that you

guys recognize have always been there. These trees
came with the city, and they're actually from the

Verdant Expanse where Syngorn usually resides.

As you walk closer, you can see large sealed gates
every so often along the outer wall. Every so

often, you see these gates embedded in the wall,
housing a massive emblem of a crescent moon

flanked by two trees over a deep cerulean stone
about two feet across. Twins, you know these as

the threshold crests. These are the enchanted
crests that enable the city to travel back and

forth between the Feywild, should it be necessary.
They're powerful, and they're rarely utilized, as

the journey is not always accurate. It seemingly
did so this time.

Make a perception check, guys.

TRAVIS: Everybody or just the twins?

MATT: Everybody who's paying attention.

SAM: I'm not. I'm reading.

LAURA: This is not woods anymore? This is not
forest? Is this marsh?

MATT: Just past marsh into flatland. 20?

MARISHA: 21.

LAURA: 21.

LIAM: 21.

ASHLEY: 15.

MATT: Okay. You guys continue towards the front of
the gate. There's nobody on the outside of it.

It's a solid, outside city. You can see white and
gray tower spires that streak up from inside, some

of which are entwined by trees that wrap around
the base and cluster around the center of the

tower's height, like its own canopy belt, if you
will.

As you get even closer still, you can see the
white walls themselves are replaced with heavy

gold and brass, gold-leaf edging across the top,
and at each one of the various nooks where the

solid stone walls are adjoined, this is a very
intricately carved and well-crafted wall. Probably

as part of the enchantment that was placed on it,
amongst others, to keep it defended.

You get about a hundred feet from the wall before
you, Vex, hear (scrape) a quick sound. You leap

back instinctually as all of you watch a series of
bolts and arrows (arrow impacts) across the floor

right in front of you.

SAM: That's exciting.

MATT: You all stop in place.

SAM: Should we attack?

MARISHA: I look up on the wall. Is it coming from
archers on the wall?

MATT: You can now see, up on the wall, dozens of
figures atop, with longbows, and some with

crossbows, drawn and nocked, trained on all of
you.

LAURA: I take my hood down. You know us. We're
here to see my father.

MATT: There's a pause, and they're still 100 feet
away from you. One of the voices says,

"Who is us, if I might ask?"

LAURA: The twins. Vex'ahlia and Vax'ildan.

LIAM: Syldor's children.

MATT: There's a little bit of a conversation. You
see a couple of figures disappear behind the wall.

About five minutes pass, and as you guys get a
little fidgety or one of you makes a swift

movement, you can see the drawn bows tense up.
They're trained on any movement you guys give at

this moment. As time passes, an individual steps
up to the top of the wall, adorned in similar

Syngorian armor, but the helmet is taken off, and
you see a woman with deep crimson hair braided to

one side and shaved on the other. She steps up and
looks out. "Vex'ahlia. Vax'ildan."

LAURA: Do we know who she is?

MATT: "The Vessar twins return. Do I know why?
What is your business here in Syngorn?"

LAURA: We came to speak to our father.

MATT: "And the rest of your company?"

LIAM: They're with us.

MATT: Make a persuasion check, both of you.

LIAM: 20.

LAURA: 14. I'll stop using that one tonight.

MATT: "Come forth to the gate. Relieve your
arrows, please." The guards all take their bows

off of you and release the tension in the strings.
The woman turns and steps off the wall again. You

can see the very front gate, the front of the
wall, opens ever so slightly, about a five-foot

gap left.

LIAM: Everybody, let my sister and I do the
talking for a minute. Thank you. I scoop up my

sister's hand, down by my side, and walk forward.

MATT: As you guys walk single file, continuing
towards the city, your satyr friend stays in the

very back behind you, clutching. (whimpering) As
you glance back, Grog, he's not there.

LAURA: Can you still feel him? Oh, sorry.

TRAVIS: Can I reach down to where he was?

MATT: Still tugging, he's holding on to you, but
has lost visibility.

TRAVIS: Clever little spider monkey.

MATT: As you guys approach, there waiting at the
side of the gate within are about ten guards and

this individual. She looks a little more
battle-hardened and wasn't elevated before, was

just one of the guards when you were children, but
this is Iova.

Now Watcher Iova, the Watchers which guard the
wall. She appears to be of an elevated status

within the Watchers of Syngorn. As you approach,
she lowers her head in a respectful bow, but still

not breaking eye contact, and has an aloof and
distanced expression.

LAURA: Watcher Iova. Nice to see you have elevated
yourself.

MATT: "Time has passed since you were finding your
own path. Surprised to see you return here,

"especially so far from the material realms."

LIAM: Then you can imagine there is great cause
for us to be here.

MATT: "Is your father aware of your arrival?"

LAURA: No.

MATT: "He is now. You and your guests will be
watched. You will be followed, until otherwise

"given proof and permission from individuals higher
than my station within the city, preferably your father."

LAURA: I would expect nothing less.

MATT: "Now, go. And welcome to Syngorn." She turns
around, puts her helmet on, and half the guard

walk away, while another six remain behind,
keeping watch.

TALIESIN: Interesting.

MARISHA: Not quite a warm welcome.

TALIESIN: I wouldn't expect one.

LAURA: I guess we should probably make our way
straight to-- so we can have free rein.

LIAM: I motion for the rest to come up behind.

MATT: As the rest of you approach and find your
way within the city walls, you're met with an

astounding cityscape. Hundreds of homes and
buildings and sanctuaries, formed with a natural

grace and keen architectural mind as to seem
almost grown from the trees and earth themselves.

Upon closer look and a nearby inspection, you can
see the craftsmanship, but from a distance, it's

almost like they were born from the materials,
than they were built or crafted. You can see

distant magical lantern light shines all across
the city, like the start of a glittering snowfall,

as the rest of the streets themselves are ever lit
by these little shining beacons.

The center of the ageless place is divided by a
grand lake of pure blue water, a roiling mist

drifting across the surface, obscuring the view of
boats currently on the surface of the water. You

do notice a large military presence within the
city, as the armored guard of Syngorn, these

individuals, the armored military force known as
the Verdant Guard, are walking throughout the

city. Not with a hurried pace, but there is a
general tension in the air, far more than you've

ever seen in all the years that you did spend in
your youth within Syngorn. That's where we'll

finish our session for the evening.

LAURA: Shit.

ASHLEY: I felt like we were just getting started.

MATT: It's 10:30, though.

ASHLEY: How?

LAURA: I guess you just have to fly in next week,
too!

ASHLEY: I wish I could.

MATT: As I look down and once again notice my Tick
Spoons shirt I've had on the entire evening, my

overshirt seems to have been shortening it to--

TRAVIS: Poon!

ASHLEY: Oh, I noticed.

MATT: Or even better--

MARISHA: Poo!

LAURA: Well, that's okay. It says Spoon.

MATT: Spoon! It's intended to be. It all works
fine. Both ways it's the new Scanlan shirt. Poon

and poo! Scanlan Shorthalt. Autobiography. Well,
great, guys! Thank you so much. We'll be picking

up the next length of this journey in the reunion
of Vex and Vax with their father, Syldor Vessar.

MARISHA: Syldor. Such a dipshit.

TRAVIS: Oh shit. At the live show.

LIAM: Live show, no pressure.

TALIESIN: I am so excited.

MATT: And you did notice that they were referred
to as the Vessar twins.

TRAVIS: Vessar twins?

SAM: What does that even mean?

LAURA: That's our dad's stupid last name.

SAM: Vessar? Vax and Vex Vessar?

MATT: Whether they use the name, that's up to
them, and I don't think that they do. But that it

is. All right, folks, we'll see you guys, some of
you, live at the-- well, we'll see you all live

next week, but some of you we'll see at the actual
venue in person.

TRAVIS: Thank you to Loot Crate.

MATT: You guys are awesome.

TRAVIS: One day left for Joe Mad.

LAURA: (Dragon Ball Z war cry) There we go.

MATT: That's okay. Ashley, I'm glad you could join
us.

TRAVIS: Yay Ashley!

MATT: And we'll see you guys next week. Is it
Thursday yet?