MATT: Hello everyone, and welcome to tonight's
episode of Critical Role, where a bunch of us

nerdy-ass voice actors sit around, roll dice, and
play Dungeons and Dragons. Yes, in my face.

Thanks, Travis. So tonight we'll kick off here
with some announcements. First and foremost, the

first run with Loot Crate went very well; you guys
rose up and showed your interest in that fantastic

product and they've come back!

(cheering)

TRAVIS: Put the stank down! Loot Crate!

MATT: Once again--

SAM: (airhorn sounds)

(laughter)

MATT: That's wonderful. So yeah, so those of you
guys who are tuning into this wonderful offer for

the first time, they are offering a $3
subscription-- the word escapes me for some

reason.

SAM: Discount.

MATT: Discount, that's the word, because my brain
is stuck in fantasy mode.

MARISHA: Discount code. I love that you called it
a modifier!

MATT: He said "modifier." That was Travis on that
one.

TRAVIS: Jock said modifier, y'all.

MATT: Minus $3 modifier to your Critical Role
subscription for Loot Crate. But no, Loot Crate is

a monthly subscription box. They make a really
awesome, continuously new array of geek-centric

and gamer gear, toys, T-shirts, wearable content,
collectibles, it's badass. Me and Marisha have

been members for years ourselves.

MARISHA: And Taliesin.

High-five. There we go.

TALIESIN: High-five. That was so awkward.

MATT: That was delightfully awkward. That was
great. So we announced at the end of the last run

with Loot Crate that their new upcoming box is
themed "dystopia." It's everything

post-apocalyptic, they've had a lot of really
awesome Robocop, Terminator 3, Matrix items and

Bioshock items--

LAURA: Fallout 4!

MATT: --a bunch of really cool things in this
next Crate. Plus, on top of the previous stuff

we've offered, they also put out what's called a
DX Box, this Dystopia DX. Which is a special,

premium box which contains over $100 in items into
it, it's for the really hardcore awesome

collectors out there. And the box itself is a lot
bigger--

TRAVIS: Yeah! Look at that thing!

SAM: It stands for "Damn! Extreme!"

(laughing)

SAM: Are we unboxing? Are we doing this?

TRAVIS: Don't let him get ahead of us! Open that
thing!

SAM: Are we just doing the DX?

LAURA: Shut up! I gotta savor this.

LIAM: Skeletor! Mine!

LAURA: No. no, It said small, it said small,
Liam!

LIAM: Skeletor. Mine!

MARISHA: Oh! Is it Skeletor?! Oh, this one's a
small too, on this side.

LAURA: Oh man. I guess the girls get to take
advantage of the Skeletor shirts.

MATT: (Skeletor voice) I'll get you He-Man!
(cackles)

ASHLEY: Whoa! That's a rad shirt!

MARISHA: This is a rad shirt.

TALIESIN: There's Street Fighter, Street Fighter
gym bag.

LAURA: Do you want to roshambo to see who keeps
the shirt?

MATT: Having had the pleasure of actually playing
Captain America once, this is really awesome, and

having voiced Iron Man once, this box is made for
me. Now I need to voice Skeletor and I'll be good.

TRAVIS: There you go.

MATT: That's fantastic.

SAM: Oh, I'm wearing a Loot Crate shirt right now.
No, from this month's Loot Crate--

TALIESIN: I got my Street Fighter gym bag.

LAURA: That's so cool!

SAM: Are we allowed to open the small one, too?

MATT: Heck yeah! Do it!

SAM: I mean, it's not small. It's more exclusive.

MATT: There you go.

LAURA: Did anybody-- who all did voices for Street
Fighter? Taliesin did-- You do Street Fighter,

don't you?

TALIESIN: I do, I got my Street Fighter bag.

LAURA: So me and Travis will share this one?

MATT: There you go.

SAM: Here, Marish. What do we got?

MARISHA: This is Dragonball, right?

MATT: Yeah, that's Dragonball too.

MARISHA: Dragonball!

SAM: I mean, it's too much good stuff.

MATT: That you are re-rolling a new character,
Grog suffered a stroke.

TRAVIS: Man, you're good.

MATT: I'm pretty fast on that draw. Pretty quick!
Watch out for the microphone. I found in here

hidden amongst the rest of the big things a really
awesome Stan Lee pin, which is badass

because years ago, at an Avengers-themed birthday
party, we all dressed up, I actually dressed up as

Stan Lee, it was a lot of fun--

MARISHA: You did.

MATT: Yeah. We got a whole Avengers Last Supper
picture with Stan Lee in the middle just going like--

LAURA: What?

TALIESIN: It was also-- we had a friend who did
Jack Kirby and we got a fight sequence going.

MATT: Yeah, me and him fought. You showed up as the
Purple Man and you did karaoke to Start Wearing

Purple. That was a good night.

SAM: Stan Lee licks every pin.

MATT: He does. Individually. True believers!
(slurp noise)

TALIESIN: Excelsior!

MATT: So yeah, for those who aren't subscribers,
it's awesome.

TRAVIS: That's a gift, man, that is a great gift.

SAM: And with a $3 discount, if you multiply that
by 12, that's like getting a free Crate every

year. I'm just making that up.

TRAVIS: I'm not good at math so I believe you.

MARISHA: Yeah, I know, I was like, sounds legit.
Sure. I'd believe that!

MATT: So, if you want to sign up to get the
discount, you go to

www.lootcrate.com/criticalrole. if you want to
sign up for the DX box, for the real collectors

out there, that is 
www.lootcrate.com/criticalroledx.

LAURA: Is there a link in the chat or something,
so that--

MATT: There is a link in the chat.

SAM: We'll also tweet one out or something.

LAURA: Yeah, we'll tweet at the break.

MATT: Okay, so I'm going to keep this. And you're
not going to tell anyone.

LAURA: (laughs) Are we supposed to give it back?
'Cause that's not happening.

MARISHA: Well, they might belong to Geek and
Sundry, but.

MATT: You guys won't tell anyone, right? Anyway,
on to the rest of the announcements! Next up, at

E3, which is next week, we're going to be showing
up on Thursday as part of GameSpot's E3 coverage.

We're going to be doing cycling interviews with
them starting at noon on Thursday, I believe, next

week. So check in with GameSpot Thursday next week
to have us sit in front of a camera and make

complete and utter fools of ourselves, unlike we
do here every Thursday. So that'll be a lot of

fun. A reminder, me and Marisha are going to be at
the Haven Expo convention in Australia beginning

of July, so all you Australian folks in the
Southern Hemisphere want to come and say hi, we'd

love to see you. Comic Con, San Diego Comic Con is
coming up.

LIAM: I've heard of that.

MATT: Yeah, yeah. We're going to be there. Looks
like we may have a couple panels

throughout the week, as well as the main Geek and
Sundry panel, so if you guys are planning on

coming to that area, keep an eye on the
@CriticalRole Twitter, we're going to be

announcing those times and rooms when they become
available to us, so you can plan to come see us

because we'd love to see you out there.

MARISHA: It's going to be all of us?

LAURA: Come say hi! As Travis says, "Come give us
a squeeze."

TRAVIS: Come give us a squeeze. We'll be at the
convention hall and we'll be over at Petco in both

places at different times.

ASHLEY: Don't give me a squeeze, it makes me
uncomfortable.

TRAVIS: It makes me toot.

ASHLEY: I don't like being touched.

TRAVIS: (fart sound) That'd be great every time.
(fart sound) Oh no.

ASHLEY: Oh no. I just fart every time.

MATT: That's impressive, how does that keep
happening? All right, Taliesin, your next episode

of Signal Boost, I believe your last episode of
Signal Boost--

TALIESIN: It's my last episode of Signal Boost?

TRAVIS: But you're the most interesting man in the
world!

LAURA: You really are, Taliesin.

MARISHA: No one wants you to leave, but you're
leaving.

TALIESIN: It's really hard to make those episodes
and I have to get on with my life.

LIAM: Here's a cardboard box, please put all your
things in it.

MARISHA: And I have to get on with my life, is
that what you just said? It's hard to think about

12 things that you legitimately feel passionately
about.

TALIESIN: Especially when you took four of them on
your run. I was really angry about that.

MARISHA: Oh, dibsies.

MATT: And we have the "Dear Abby" Vox Machina
articles still coming up-- we have a new one

tomorrow, I believe? Who's up on that one? Do we
know?

SAM: It's Trinket and it's all salmon-based
advice.

(laughter)

MATT: If only that was the case.

TALIESIN: It might be me?

MATT: It might be Percy, we'll find out! Tomorrow
it'll be a surprise! Go to geekandsundry.com

tomorrow to find out whose article it is. Because
we don't know! And I think that's it, that's all,

unless anyone has anything else they want to
announce, or shall we dive into the game for the

evening?

TRAVIS: I would like to announce that I have an
egg on my pizza.

MATT: Was that intentional? Or did it just
happen?

LAURA: It's breakfast pizza, man!

TRAVIS: It's just a mythical thing, you don't
question it.

MATT: I love me some breakfast pizza! I didn't
know if it was actually breakfast pizza, or he got

regular pizza and somehow it got an egg on it.

MARISHA: It's like slapstick pizza.

TALIESIN: It's very embarrassed pizza.

MATT: Hmm, that's weird. Anyway, let's go ahead
and bring it down here, as we return to the realm

of Exandria for tonight's episode of Critical
Role.

SAM: Is something happening now?

MATT: I hope so, I hope we're at the intro.

[dramatic music]

MATT: Hello, and welcome back, everyone. So, to
bring us into tonight's game, let's do a little

recap of recent events. This group of intrepid
adventurers, Vox Machina, found their way towards

the city of Westruun, which had been partially
destroyed by the attacks of the Chroma Conclave, a

dangerous group of chromatic dragons, very
powerful entities that tore through the

countryside. In the wake of this destruction, the
Herd of Storms, a roving barbaric tribe that Grog

once belonged to, swept in and conquered the city
of Westruun. They made an accord with the

returning black dragon, Umbrasyl, that they would
alleviate most of the spoils of their findings

toward it and, as such, would not be in conflict
with such a powerful and dangerous entity. Vox

Machina swung into the town, cut down the rather
brutal and ruthless leader, Kevdak, and aided his

son, who seemed to be of more honorable mind,
Zanror, and Grog himself, to temporarily take the

herd in its current state and use this moment to
surprise and hopefully take down this ancient

black dragon known as Umbrasyl, the Hope
Devourer. They set a trap. They sprung it, and

kept the dragon close to the ground as long as
they could, dealing vast amounts of damage but not

enough to stop it as it began to tear through the
herd, as well as Vox Machina itself. Vax and

Scanlan had, through the use of magic and
ingenuity, teleported themselves inside of the

dragon. Didn't seem to go as well as they
intended, as the dragon took off, leaving a

dangling Grog with his axe and chain stuck in its
side, flying off towards the high, darkened

mountain of Gatshadow. The midair battle ensued as
they tried to find ways to carve their way out of

the beast. Vax, utilising the embedded arrow hole
and loosening the tension of the muscles with the

dragon blade at his disposal, Scanlan's technique
a little more sensual.

SAM: I fisted it.

MATT: You fisted the dragon and, as such, found
your way out. During this period of time, Vax

embraced the blessing of the Raven Queen, taking a
level of paladin, Grog got more intelligent,

briefly, as a giant eagle, and you managed to
reconvene with your party members as the dragon

went to recover within its lair at the top of
Gatshadow. You then encountered a very elderly

goliath who you hadn't seen in quite some time,
named Shale, who spoke of the scouting crew that

had been obliterated by the dragon. You followed
Shale as she led you up the mountain to where the

dragon's current lair resides. You did battle with
Umbrasyl, a very hard-fought battle, many of you

taking a bunch of damage. But you prevailed and
Grog dealt the death blow, killing the dragon. You

all began to sift through its hoard, the bulk of
which we will be doing as you rest into the

evening here, Shale shambling down the mountain on
her own to see the rest of her greater destiny.

So, as we come back, you've all decided to take an
evening's rest to recover from this heinous battle

that you just suffered. You carved out some
elements of Umbrasyl's corpse that were not

destroyed by the anger and might of Grog. I
believe I told you a tooth count, a blood vial

count, what did I not give you from the remains of
the black dragon?

SAM: We don't know what we don't know, Matt.

TRAVIS: Scales and claws.

MARISHA: I don't know if I got a tooth count,
either.

LAURA: Oh, you got three vials of Umbrasyl
blood, is all we have.

TALIESIN: It was a lot of teeth.

MATT: Yeah, it was 15 or so, I believe, because a
lot of them were destroyed from the perpetual axe

smashing in the mouth--

LAURA: Do you want me to write them in the bag?

TRAVIS: Make sure it was dead!

MATT: Yeah, exactly, it was the more
important part, really.

LAURA: I'm writing the body parts in the Bag of
Colding.

TALIESIN: What's a dragon kidney stone worth?

LAURA: 15 teeth--

MARISHA: Does it turn into a pearl?

TALIESIN: It might do, you know, a diamond?

LAURA: What about scales?

MATT: Well, ten dragon claws were harvested from
this entity, and about-- and it's going to take you

quite a while, you're probably not going to be
able to rest if you continue to harvest from the

corpse to get scales off of it, at this
point, because it's more dragonhide than just

scales, you're taking the hide off of it and
you're going to need a team of people and an

extended period of time to do that well.

TALIESIN: I said I was going to help with the
sword, with that process, since I've got it--

MATT: Okay, that does help, it's still going to
be-- there's a lot of hide--

TRAVIS: We only have like 60 pounds of scales from
previously, left over.

(thumps)

LAURA: What is happening?

TRAVIS: Umbrasyl's ghost.

MATT: Yeah, ravaging the countryside from the
east.

SAM: We're still in the lair?

MATT: You are still in the lair, yes.

MARISHA: We have 60 pounds of scales left?

LAURA: Yeah, but these would be Umbrasyl scales.
This way we can make Umbrasyl black dragon armor!

TRAVIS: Then we can have, yeah, black and white
scales.

LAURA: Yeah, yeah, yeah, but we could make
dragonhide-- with dragonhide you could make badass

armor, right?

LIAM: Yeah, we could have done that ages ago.

MARISHA: (laughs) I want some black and white
armor. How--

MATT: Do keep in mind, the Bag of Holding can hold
upwards 500 pounds, to the max.

LAURA: Oh.

MATT: Just be aware.

SAM: It's not infinite?

MATT: No.

LAURA: Oh, I thought it was infinite.

LIAM: Also, many of the shops that can do that
kind of thing are destroyed, so--

TRAVIS: Oh, we're okay, there's not a bunch of big
stuff in here.

TALIESIN: We'll get some, we should get some.

SAM: What about the gold? Did we find out how much
gold?

MATT: We're about to find out.

LAURA: Well, okay, I'm definitely doing that while
they're working on the dragon.

TALIESIN: We'll work on the scales.

MATT: As you guys are working on the scales--

MARISHA: I want to work most of-- I want to take as
much as I can--

MATT: Of the scales? Okay, that's fine. Hide,
dragonhide, we'll say. Scales themselves are just

little pieces, used more for alchemical elements,
can be removed from hide later, so we'll call it

hide. So I want you to go ahead and make an
investigation check, Laura.

LAURA: Oh man! Come on 20!

LIAM: Also, I believe I was first to the pile. I
was looking for what weapons there are and I also

want to watch her, very closely, with everything
she does.

LAURA: Does this have to do with dragons? Is it an
investigation about dragons?

MATT: Uh, no, this is more to do with the gold--

LAURA: What about because I'm in a mountain and
it's my favored terrain?

MATT: Your favored terrain, ironically, is not
gold, it is mountains. However, when you level up

as a ranger, if you choose to, your next favored
terrain should be gold. Just as a character choice--

LAURA: I'm just checking for-- I wanna be sure I'm
rolling what I'm supposed to--

LIAM: (singing) Ducktales! Woo-ooo!

LAURA: 13 is all that I rolled, though.

LIAM: With a swimming speed of 40 in gold.

MATT: It is quite a lot of gold. As you start
counting up a section of it, and you being a very,

very discerning eye, you're looking upwards of
around 78,000 gold pieces.

LAURA: Oh, but some of this is Westruun's.

MATT: A lot of this is Westruun's.

ASHLEY: Is it, though?

LAURA: It is, it is, it is. You know what, I'm
going to keep it-- I'm keeping it in a separate

stock, because I don't want to take money away
from Westruun--

MATT: Just so you're aware, that's 1,570 pounds of
gold. You can't carry all that.

ASHLEY: If we separated it?

LAURA: Well, we're going to put a marker in it and
let Westruun know that this is their gold and then

we'll send them up--

TRAVIS: Oh that's fair! Then they can come back up
and get it.

LAURA: Yeah, they can, 'cause how else are we
going to get it to them? I'm just going to take a

little bit of it.

MATT: How much you taking?

SAM: 20%.

TRAVIS: 15,000.

LAURA: What we put in is still down on the
ground.

MARISHA: How much did we put in?

LIAM: Ten.

LAURA: I think we should take 10,000.

TRAVIS: Higher! Higher!

LAURA: But it's Westruun's money!

ASHLEY: We can let the people decide?

SAM: And we have spent a lot of our hard-earned
cash saving this for them.

TALIESIN: I'm going to need a little bit of that
money to fix my gun, too, which is very broken.

LAURA: How much do you need, Percy?

TALIESIN: I don't know how broken it is.

SAM: Our Heroes' Feasts are 1,000 bucks each--

MARISHA: About how much is 500 pounds worth of
gold? Maybe that's a better question?

MATT: Well 50 gold pieces is one pound, so that's
about 100 pounds. 5,000 you said? 500? 500 would

be, you know, ten pounds.

TALIESIN: We need some platinum.

LAURA: Oh, is there platinum in there? We're so
greedy!

MATT: It's mostly gold. Platinum is not too
heavily traded, it's usually more-- there aren't a

lot of people in the general town and cityscapes
of Westruun, these areas of the country, that

carry large volumes of platinum. They're more like
inter-country large purchases that are made. Most

of this has just been gathered from people's
homes, from personal stashes and mercantile store

houses, so most of it here is gold.

MARISHA: How much did you say was the total
again?

MATT: About 78,000.

SAM: I feel like we should take 15 to 20.

MARISHA: So 20% would be 15,000.

LIAM: 15's fair.

LAURA: Is it?

LIAM: We put in a lot of work. If you wanna do
more, you can tell the children of Westruun,

personally--

LAURA: No, I don't want to put-- I don't want to
put more, I want to take less, honestly.

SAM: Why do you hate children, Vex?

TALIESIN: They're very dirty, they smell terrible
and--

ASHLEY: Is it a terrible idea to let the people
decide? 'Cause maybe they would give us more?

SAM: The people, how? Hold a vote? Do you want
this money or do you want us to have it?

ASHLEY: (sighs) I don't know, because maybe some
of it may not all be theirs.

SAM: Could you pray on it and ask what Sarenrae
would do?

ASHLEY: I'm not going to pray over this money!

TALIESIN: I think if we ask them, they're just
going to argue amongst themselves.

SAM: Like us?

MARISHA: Yeah, I agree.

We would ask an entire town to come to a
decision.

MATT: That's 300 pounds worth of gold. If you were
to put that within the Bag of Holding, that's the

most you could carry.

TRAVIS: That's all right.

MATT: Your Bag of Holding, I'll say at this point,
would be full.

TRAVIS: Maxed out? I could do that, plus I could
make myself really big for a little bit, too.

LAURA: All right, but that's all we're taking.

TRAVIS: Okay.

LAURA: These people are in need. It's very hard to
say, but I don't want people being homeless and

we're walking around with a bunch of gold
that's--

TALIESIN: Beyond homeless, they're going to probably
have to run, so any money we give them will be

money they will use to get out of town. To go
somewhere else.

MARISHA: Are we sure there's people capable in
town to bring back all this money? That we trust?

SAM: Sure, if they had enough people and enough
wagons. But, however, if we leave all this

gold just sitting here, won't brigands come and
rob it and pilfer it?

LAURA: Probably. But what are we going to do?

SAM: We can hide it in some stone shit. Can't you
make some stone shit, to hide it? Some sort of--

LAURA: Oh, yeah, like a wall or something?

SAM: I don't know, like a fake stone wall that
they could walk through? I don't know!

LAURA: That only lasts for a while.

MARISHA: I can Stone Shape like a little. No,
Stone Shape's permanent?

MATT: Yeah, it's instant. You just (impact).

MARISHA: Okay, Okay. Stone Shape's permanent, so I
could Stone Shape a little cubby and put a little

symbol over it so we know--

LAURA: Okay. But hide it well. I'll hide the hole
so that we tell them where it is.

MATT: Okay, so as you begin moving and trudging
through the gold, as you start moving it into that

pile, you also discover 25 pounds' worth of
precious gems, most of them cut, some of which are

also rough.

SAM: Do any of them have identifying marks, like
wedding rings, or--?

MATT: I mean, there are a number of gems that look
like they're part of necklaces or rings, yes.

LAURA: I wonder why he's asking.

MATT: There are a number of gem-encrusted rings that
would be very, very beautiful wedding rings if

they were utilized, yes.

SAM: Any particularly small ones?

(laughter)

MATT: There are a number that could fit smaller
folked fingers

SAM: I'll take a sapphire.

MATT: Okay, that's about a 400 gold worth sapphire
ring.

LIAM: "Oh! This one's nice!"

MATT: So note the 25 pounds' worth of gems. You
could attempt to ascertain their worth later. You

don't have the materials, nor the actual personal
knowledge to figure out exactly how much those gems

are worth at the moment. You do also find a bunch
of art and fine decor, brass and gold statues that

were pulled out of homes, some art pieces,
silverware--

SAM: Can I do some sort of arcana check on some of
the stuff? Have we done that already?

MARISHA: We have the Hunk of Quall. I'll go ahead
and, here, I hand Scanlan the Hunk of Quall

LIAM: Isn't Quall's Hunk just for Quall's stuff?
Or is it for everything?

SAM: It just finds magical things, right?

LIAM: I thought it was just for his special
stuff.

MARISHA: It finds things with magical essences.

TRAVIS: Scanlan, she's metaphorically handing you
the Quall.

MARISHA: Here, do you want the Hunk of Quall? Do
you want to hang onto it?

SAM: Sure, I'll Quall it.

MATT: Okay, make an arcana check.

SAM: Ooh! 20.

MATT: It sparks for a second, then goes dark
again. Looking at it, it seems like whatever it

was designed to find, it has found and expended
most of its temporary enchantment.

LAURA: Lame.

MARISHA: Boo.

SAM: So it doesn't do anything. So then I'll scan
through the stuff, looking for magical dope items--

MATT: Make an investigation check.

LAURA: Are there any pretty paintings that grab
our attention?

MATT: There are some very pretty paintings.

TRAVIS: We're not taking any paintings.

LAURA: I could roll it up, Grog, it's not your
call!

TRAVIS: They're very heavy.

SAM: I got a 14, anyone want to help me look for
magical scheisse?

ASHLEY: I'll help, I'll help you look!

MATT: So the armored gnome, Pike, leaps onto the
pile of gold coins and eagerly sifts through with

her giant ogre-ish hands.

(laughter)

ASHLEY: I just rolled a one.

(laughter)

ASHLEY: There's nothing magical here, at all!

SAM: Keyleth, you wanna help?

MARISHA: Huh?

SAM: Just look for magical shit.

MARISHA: I'm covered in-- I mean, I can--

SAM: Grog? Grog, look for magic.

TRAVIS: Uh, I rolled a 16.

SAM: (laughs) That's better than us!

(laughter)

TRAVIS: Hold on!

MATT: His large size allows him to push through
large swaths of the pile of coins. You do pull

through what appears to be a very, very fine
ceramic jug that has runes carved along the sides,

and it rightfully should have broken under the
weight of most of the metal that had been placed

upon it or shifted around.

TRAVIS: It's almost all broken anyway.

ALL: No!

SAM: Do any of us recognise the type of runes--

LIAM: That really seems right up your alley,
buddy, but I think--

ASHLEY: Can I try reading the runes?

MATT: You may. Go ahead and make an arcana check.
Actually, yeah, this would be arcana.

ASHLEY: Just, arcana check?

LAURA: Come on!

ASHLEY: 16?

MATT: 16? It's not a specific language, they're
all basic magical runes that are used in

transmutation magic. You're not too familiar with
anything in this realm, but transmutation is the

most you can get out of it.

MARISHA: Hang on, wait, Grog! Grog, come here.

TRAVIS: Okay.

MARISHA: I cast Create Water and I fill the jug
with water.

MATT: Okay.

SAM: It explodes.

TRAVIS: If I die because of this...

(laughter)

TRAVIS: (explosion)

MATT: What's interesting is, as you take the jug
from him, it's empty but you still hear sloshing,

even though it's empty as you hold it before you.
You put water into it. It swishes around.

TRAVIS: Can I tip it upside down?

MATT: Yep, you tip it upside down, and the water
spills out.

TRAVIS: Anything else?

MATT: Nope.

TRAVIS: Can I shake it? Any more swishing?

MATT: You shake it, you still hear the swishing,
yeah.

TRAVIS: Can I put my head in the jug?

MATT: You do. (muffled) It blocks it, quite a bit.
Your voice is ringing in your ears.

TRAVIS: Can I shake the jug?

MATT: You still hear, around you (sloshing).

TRAVIS: What is this witchcraft?

(laughter)

MARISHA: Do you hear the ocean, Grog? Do you hear
the ocean?

TRAVIS: (echoes) No, no, no, no.

LIAM: Bored, Vax starts tossing gold coins off of
Grog's junk while it's on there.

TRAVIS: What! What the hell?

LIAM: They're very small.

TRAVIS: Oh. Come on, let me break it! It's
obviously broken.

ALL: No!

ASHLEY: Can I try taking a sip?

MATT: Sure, what are you-- You just take it?

ASHLEY: Just seeing if I can just drink anything
in there.

MATT: You tip it, nothing comes out of it.

ASHLEY: Aww. I thought something cool was going to
happen.

LAURA: If you reach your hand in it, can you touch
the bottom of it?

MATT: Yeah, you feel the bottom. It's all dry
ceramic.

TALIESIN: I'm going to take the jug. I'm going to
put some of the dragon blood that's drying out

in the jug and swirl it around a little bit.

MATT: It swishes around.

TALIESIN: And pour it out.

MATT: It pours onto the ground.

TALIESIN: It's just blood?

MATT: It's just blood.

MARISHA: I scoop up a little bit of dirt and I put
the dirt in the jug.

MATT: You have dirt in the jug

MARISHA: Dump it out.

SAM: This is a filthy jug.

MATT: You turn it over and dirt falls across the
ground before you.

(laughter)

LAURA: Oh, what the fuck?

SAM: Oh, I put some semen in it.

LAURA: Gross!

TALIESIN: No!

SAM: I think that's the magic!

TRAVIS: Literally some sailors that are at sea?
Yeah.

TALIESIN: A baby comes out. Now this is your
responsibility.

MATT: You go to the docks of Emon. No. You'll have
to take some time with this to discern what it

actually does.

SAM: All right, we'll just hang onto it.

ASHLEY: What if it's just like a Jug of Holding?
Like you could just keep putting stuff in it?

LAURA: Yeah, but everything's been pouring out but
there's still something in the bottom of it.

TALIESIN: Let's take it to an expert, we'll find
out later.

LIAM: There are smarter people than us.

MATT: You also find amongst this chaos a number of
glass shards, and you start discerning that there

are a number of empty vials that were shattered
and broken across the floor in this area and

across the coins. A bunch of empty vials.

LAURA: Potions all mixing together?

MATT: A lot of things that were seemingly recently
used in the recovery of the large entity. However,

there is one unbroken vial that you see that
contains a cloudy grey oil that swishes around on

the inside; some of it tends to seep through the
glass, almost, and then evaporate instantaneously

on touching the air.

LAURA: Ooh! Who wants this creepy looking shit?

SAM: I'll take it! Can I? Have I seen anything
like this before?

MATT: You haven't, actually.

SAM: Dammit. Can I sniff it to get any clues?

MATT: You sniff it and it smells metallic,
strangely, as you pull the stopper off. It's not

liquid, it's more like a thick oil. It's very
viscous and slowly swishes in place as you rotate

the glass.

LAURA: I bet Gilmore would know what that was.

SAM: I'll hang onto this for now. It might be
massage oil.

LAURA: What?

SAM: You never know.

MATT: You never know. You do also rummage through.
You find another unbroken-- the glass itself is

cracked a little bit, but it's still intact-- what
appears to be a small brown, silver and gray

layered liquid. It's like three different layers
that are all sediment and separate from each

other, based on how it's been laying there.

LAURA: Ahh! Should we put this inside another glass
container so if it breaks, it's okay?

TALIESIN: Honestly, I think just putting it in the
biological--

LAURA: The Bag of Colding?

TALIESIN: --the Bag of Colding. Might be wise.

LAURA: All right. Layered gray-brown potion is
what I'm writing.

MATT: It's got layers of brown, silver and grey.

TRAVIS: So mostly grey.

MARISHA: It's like a birthday cake shot?

MATT: Kind of. And then as you push the last of
the coins in this hole that you've made in the

side of the wall to hide it out of the
way, you do also find at the very bottom of this

what looks like an old book of some kind, like a
tome, it's about this big with a heavy thick

leather binding around it.

LAURA: Can we read it?

SAM: No, this could be the spellbook.

TRAVIS: Oh, yeah! Dres Vina's--

MARISHA: Dres Vina's spellbook?

TRAVIS: Abjurist Noja's.

MARISHA: Abjurist Noja, that's right.

SAM: Abjurist Noja's. Does it look like a
spellbook? Have we seen a spellbook before?

MATT: You look through and as you open it up, the
words are scrambled and, as you focus for a

second, they seem to reassemble them in Common.
And as you read through, the first page has a

large title across the top that says: "Tome of
Leadership and Influence."

LIAM: This is special.

LAURA: It is! Who should read it? I want to read
it right now!

SAM: Well, only some of us can read, no offense.

TRAVIS: Fuck off. Are there any pictures in the
book?

MATT: There are no pictures, it is pure text. Your
favorite.

TRAVIS: Completely worthless. It's awful cold--

LAURA: If Grog looks at it, does it reassemble
itself in stick figures?

MATT: It's interesting. You look at the pages, and
the lines don't make sense to you but for some

reason you understand the gist of what the content
is. It goes beyond the barrier of language and,

for a second, it's almost like there are pictures,
but the pictures are assembled by a bunch of tiny

lines in a row and different shapes that show you
what it means!

TRAVIS: See, it's a book about leadership, clearly
it wants to communicate something to me--

ASHLEY: Intelligence--

TRAVIS: Intelligence, right, thank you.

LIAM: This is like the Grognak comic book in
Fallout, is what this is.

MARISHA: See, I was going to say How to Win
Friends and Influence People.

SAM: As the unofficial leader of the group--

LAURA: Yeah? Really Scanlan?

SAM: --I don't really need the book. So perhaps
Percy should look at it.

TALIESIN: I was thinking perhaps Keyleth might
actually--

LAURA: That's true! You do have a people to rule.
Both of you do.

TALIESIN: Yeah, Keyleth, perhaps, might want to
take this book.

I am not leading anyone.

MARISHA: Thank you, Scanlan. Thank you.

TRAVIS: Keyleth, you wanna trade the book for this
stupid vase?

SAM: It's not Secret Santa, we're not trading
things.

(laughter)

TRAVIS: Fine.

MARISHA: I mean, I guess because I happen to be
holding the vase at the time, sure. No you can--

you can have it

TRAVIS: I can have the book?!

MARISHA: No, you can have the vase.

ASHLEY: Wait, what's the book? The book is
Leadership and what?

MATT: Leadership and Influence. If you guys want
to take the evening to kind of look over these

items, you could probably discern most of the
nature of them.

SAM: Okay, well, let's do that. Let's take a look
at them overnight.

MARISHA: I'm going to continue eviscerating a
dragon.

MATT: You get to the point where you guys, late
into the night, have carved away roughly 40

functional pounds of hide before you're exhausted.
You're exhausted and there's still plenty of hide

to pull off of, but it would take you a week and
you can notice the more you go, the scent is

changing. It's almost like the acidic contents of
the body are beginning to accelerate

decomposition. It is actually, essentially, now
that the body is no longer living, the acidic bile

that it usually utilizes as a weapon is slowly
consuming its remains.

TALIESIN: I'm perfectly content with 40.

MARISHA: Yeah, we can make a decent amount of
armor with 40 pounds--

MATT: So whoever wants to carry that, because it's
got to be carried, because the Bag of Holding is full.

TRAVIS: I'll take it.

ASHLEY: I can carry some. I'm strong.

LAURA: How much does the biological bag hold?

MATT: The biological bag holds 100 pounds.

LAURA: I could put some in there. I don't have
very much in here. It's all light.

MATT: Okay, so there you go.

MARISHA: Yeah. Cool, cool, cool.

LAURA: So 40 pounds? I'll mark that down.

MATT: So 40 pounds of black dragon hide.

TRAVIS: You're carrying around 100 pounds of
shit?

LAURA: It's magic, it's weightless.

MATT: The Bag of Colding. The bag itself weighs
five pounds to her, but can contain 100 pounds. So,

as you guys work through the evening, who's
looking over which items? Who's looking over the book?

SAM: I'm looking over the book.

TRAVIS: Will you stand up there and get me the
vase?

MATT: There is the vase for Grog--

LAURA: Was there other things to look at? I'll
look at the vial that I have, the layered one.

TRAVIS: Gimme. Gimme!

TALIESIN: I'm going to sit and try and get my gun
working again--

LIAM: They're no good for me, but I think last
week you said something about spears or javelins

or something?

MATT: There are various basic weapons in there,
but nothing that comes across as anything beyond

well-crafted weaponry that was gathered.

LIAM: There any shortswords in the pile?

MATT: There are a couple. A lot of them have been
dinged up and wrecked but there are two regular

shortswords that seem to be functional and not
damaged too heavily.

LIAM: I'm going to scoop them up

MATT: Okay. So two shortswords.

TALIESIN: I don't know how I even feel about that.

MATT: So, Percy? The level of broken that Bad News
is would require a workshop of some kind. Even

just basic blacksmithing tools--

TALIESIN: I was going to use the workshop that's
in the house.

MATT: Okay, if you guys want to go and rest in the
house, then that's doable.

SAM: Yes, I'm doing the house.

MATT: Okay, all of you hop into Scanlan's
Mordenkainen's Magnificent Mansion.

LIAM: Yeah! Chicken!

MATT: Get yourself a delightful chicken dinner.

SAM: I know what that spell is, you just pass
through walls like a ghost.

MARISHA: Through walls and stuff, yeah. So what's
that deal?

SAM: This is +2 to charisma, permanently.

TRAVIS: This is fucking brilliant.

LAURA: Does anybody need-- Who's shit at
climbing?

SAM: Pike?

ASHLEY: Hey!

(laughter)

ASHLEY: Wait a minute! Am I shit at climbing?

MATT: No, your strength's pretty high. You can
rock climb.

ASHLEY: I'm strong!

LAURA: Oh, it's based on strength?

MATT: Climbing is, yeah.

LAURA: Oh, we're shit at climbing!

LIAM: I'm okay.

LAURA: I'm shit.

LIAM: Oh, hey, by the way. Take your fucking shoes
off and give them back to me.

LAURA: Oh what, these fabulous shoes that fit me
perfectly?

LIAM: Yeah, give them to me or I'll just take them
while you're sleeping, easily.

LAURA: You think you could do that, like I wouldn't
notice you sneaking up?

LIAM: So fucking easily.

LAURA: I don't believe it!

LIAM: Keep your boots, then. See if they're there
in the morning.

LAURA: All right.

MATT: (laughs) As you all find yourselves to rest
within the confines, the comfortable confines, of

Scanlan's mansion, Percy, I want you to go ahead
and make a tinkering check.

TALIESIN: That's tinkering is plus four, plus
proficiency bonus, plus a d20, if I recall?

MATT: It's proficiency bonus, plus your dex for
the purposes of fixing this.

TALIESIN: Okay, that's even better. That'll do.
20.

MATT: 20, okay. It takes you most of the evening.
You'll rest up but we'll say for the purposes of

this you've only regained two hit dice for the
evening's rest, of your spent hit dice.

TALIESIN: Okay. So I'm just down two hit dice?

MATT: Yeah. Any that you've used, if you used any,
you don't recover any but two. Normally you'd

recover half of your unused hit dice right now.
The gun is fixed, the materials that you were

required to use will cost you half as much as the
actual weapon is worth.

TALIESIN: Lord almighty.

MATT: Which, let me look at my list here for
that-- It's going to come to roughly 400 gold in

materials to repair.

TALIESIN: I thought it was a more expensive gun
than that, I feel a little better. Oh, that's

right, it's the cheap gun of the two.

LAURA: What about the Bad News? You broke that one
too, didn't you?

TALIESIN: That was Bad News. The other gun was
working. I broke it but it was just jammed. Bad

News was like (creaking).

MATT: All right, so the evening's rest goes
relatively uneventful.

SAM: I've commanded ten of my invisible guards to
protect Vex's feet.

(laughter)

MATT: Okay! Vax?

LIAM: So in the middle of the night, I'd like to
swing by the kitchen--

LAURA: I'm sleeping with them tucked up under me.
I'm going to sleep like, you know how little kids

sleep with their butts in the air and their feet
are tucked under them? That's how I'm-- yeah.

MATT: (laughs) Okay!

LIAM: Okay. I go by the kitchen and I get a mug of
water and some spices. Just some various, simple

stuff-- I'd like to sneak into my sister's room.
I'd like to check the door for traps.

MATT: Go ahead and make an investigation check!

LIAM: It's not very high. Oh, no, yes it is. It's
a 20.

MATT: All right, it does not appear to be trapped,
however it is locked.

LIAM: Okay, I'd like to pick that lock.

LAURA: Do I notice this happening?

LIAM: 30. You're sleeping.

LAURA: Yeah, but I have a really good passive
perception, bitch!

LIAM: All right, 30 on the trap.

MATT: Right, on the lock you mean--

LIAM: On the lock, yeah-- I'd like to sneak in.

MATT: Ever so quiet, you make it into the room.
Pull the door close to closed, but not entirely.

You look up in what little bit of low firelight
is coming from a distant fireplace in the far

corner that's down to very, very simple embers,
you see drifting in a semi-circle around the bed,

ten spiritual servants, all arms crossed, just
staring right at you--

LIAM: Protecting her feet, right? That was the
command.

SAM: Protect her feet. That was the command.

LIAM: I walk in. They're not on her feet. I want
nothing to do with her feet, guys, I just want

those shoes that she's hugging.

LAURA: No, I have the shoes on my feet--

LIAM: You said you were hugging them up here like
this.

LAURA: No, no, no. I said I'm sleeping with my
feet tucked up under me.

LIAM: Like how? Like Cirque du Soleil?

LAURA: Like child's pose, Like child's pose! Yoga,
bitch! You know what I'm talking about--

LIAM: With your feet here?

LAURA: No! Like this.

LIAM: That's what you said!

LAURA: Here I'll show you. Sorry, guys, you don't
get to see-- But it's like this, Liam--

SAM: Oh, that's so vulgar!

LAURA: No, it's not!

(laughter)

LIAM: Okay, guys, this is a little bit of family
trouble, just give me a minute. And I leap on top

of her, I take the cup of water and I splash it in
her face and I throw flour on her face like that!

LAURA: What?! What the fuck?!

LIAM: Give me my boots! Give me my boots! You give
me my damn boots!

(laughter)

MATT: You are immediately pulled off of the bed,
slammed onto the ground on the floor--

LIAM: I don't get to roll?!

MATT: --as all the spirits hold you down. No.

LIAM: No dexterity, no nothing?!

MATT: No, because the moment that you go ahead and
splash the water and go towards her, they're on

top of you, this isn't about dodging--

LIAM: I left her feet alone!

LAURA: Wait, wait, wait. What's happening? Don't
attack him! Don't attack him!

MATT: Right. It was less of you trying to avoid
and more to see if they could grab you.

LIAM: Yeah, okay.

(laughter)

MATT: So you're vaulted off and slammed onto the
ground and they're just holding you there. Not

attacking you, they're just holding you--

LIAM: Give me my boots, you greedy shitbird.

LAURA: What? You think I was really going to keep
them?

LIAM: I want them now. I don't trust you as far as
I can throw you. I want you to-- just keep holding

me up, guys. I want you to put them on my feet
now.

LAURA: But they look so good on me. And your feet
are so smelly! Are you-- are you mad?

LIAM: I gave up my life for you. I will have my
shoes. Please.

LAURA: All right.

MATT: One of the servants begins slowly going
towards your foot and (sniffs).

(laughter)

LAURA: They're smelly, they're really smelly.
See?

LIAM: We should cap 'em, right boys?

LAURA: What if--?

SAM: You think any of my servants are boys?

(laughter)

LIAM: I assume they have both sets of parts,
actually--

SAM: That's true, that's true.

(laughter)

LAURA: I suppose I could part with them.

LIAM: Waiting.

LAURA: Wait, wait, wait. Ahh! I'm not putting them
on your feet.

LIAM: Sure you are.

LAURA: No, I am not! But before I do, I want
payment, for these boots. What's going on with you

and Keyleth?

(laughter)

LAURA: Right here. I'll give you these boots if
you tell me.

LIAM: I could rescind my deal with an all-powerful
deity and let you fall to the ground or you could

hear about my personals. What's your choice?

LAURA: What?

LIAM: Give me my fucking boots!

LAURA: You love her? You love her so much. Take
one, right here. You could put it on, cover up at

least one foul stench in the room.

LIAM: No, I can't because they're holding me
around the arms--

MATT: Two of the servants take the boot from her
and start putting it on your feet. Kind of polish

it a little bit.

LAURA: Does she feel the same way about you?

LIAM: Ask her.

LAURA: (gasps) Maybe I will. Fine. Here's your
other boot. Servants--

MATT: They take it and they hold you down even
still forcefully, grab your other leg and gingerly

put the other boot on. Polish it--

LAURA: Now go to sleep, we fought a dragon
yesterday.

LIAM: (laughs) I love you, but you are a terrible
person. And I walk out the door.

MATT: (laughs) And you walk away.

LAURA: (coughs) I spend 15 minutes getting all the
flour off of my bed.

MARISHA: I go to Scanlan. Scanlan?

SAM: Oi?

MARISHA: Did I hear you had a hot spring, or
something like that? Or like a spa here? I feel

like you'd have a spa-- Because I am covered in
dragon bile.

SAM: Ooh, yes. Well--

MARISHA: Not. no, no.

SAM: No?

MARISHA: Just, can you point me in the direction
of the spa?

SAM: Oh, I'm not coming with you. Don't worry,
darling. Yes, it's downstairs in the third

basement-- I don't know!

(laughter)

MARISHA: Thank you!

MATT: You hear a (stone shifting) shift as a third
basement is created in the bottom of the

mansion--

SAM: Right next to the boiler room!

MATT: Another shake as a boiler room has now
apparated right next--

MARISHA: Is it a very fantastic bathhouse?

MATT: It's not bad, actually. It's a fine natural
hot spring, a comfortable hot tub temperature.

SAM: It's got Russian temperature, Swedish
temperature, Finnish temperature--

MARISHA: I go over the comms and I say: hey, Vex,
Pike, I think I just found the new hangout spot

for the ladies--

ASHLEY: Where are you?

MARISHA: I'm in the third basement, come down!

TALIESIN: There's a third basement?

TRAVIS: What's in the third basement?

SAM: Yeah, we can all hear you--

TALIESIN: Yeah we can all hear you. You can't just
pick people, you are aware of that?

MARISHA: Oh, I mean. Shit! Uh. This is not
Keyleth, this is another transmission you're

picking up, it's-- I'll change the channel

TRAVIS: (shouting) Party down in the third
basement!

LAURA: All right, let's go down.

TRAVIS: We're all going down.

MATT: So, ladies, you all convene in this
beautiful hot, air filled with steam. There's a

fountain in the corner with some rocks and some
nice plants around the area. There's a beautiful

giant portrait of Scanlan, nude, sprawled over a
rock--

(laughter)

MATT: With a towel just gently placed on his knee.

(laughter)

SAM: Not covering anything.

MATT: No, no. It's decorative. As soon as you all
sink in this moment, the door opens behind you as

Percy and Grog come storming in.

TRAVIS: Shit yeah! CANNONBALL!

LAURA: Well, this was peaceful--

TRAVIS: Heh! Look at Scanlan's wiener in that
picture. (laughs)

ASHLEY: I'm going to cannonball in too.

MATT: Pike jumps in--

TALIESIN: I'm taking off my glasses and going to
go soak in a corner quietly.

LAURA: I go find Keyleth.

MATT: All right, so you guys have made your way
comfortable into the hot spring. Vex saunters over

to you with a look of intention on her face.

MARISHA: You look so intent.

LAURA: Yes. Do you like the hot springs?

MARISHA: I love the hot springs, aren't they
fantastic?

LAURA: I do too. I sit down next to her. So my
brother.

MARISHA: (coughs)

LAURA: What's going on with you guys? Because I
just asked him and he got really awkward. I

mean, is it for real? Is it definitely happening?
Are you guys "in love?" Getting married? Having

babies? Little druid babies?

MARISHA: Oh wow, you just said a lot of things in
a very short space of time. You know, we just

killed a dragon.

LAURA: We did.

MARISHA: We just killed a dragon.

LAURA: I know, I feel so alive!

MARISHA: Okay. So that's about as far as I got. I
wasn't sure if I was going to, you know, live past

that. I wasn't sure if he was going to live past
that. I wasn't sure if you were going to live past

that. Really, any of us--

LAURA: But we did.

MARISHA: Yeah we did, we did. Now there's three
more. And I have a lot that I still have to do and

still have to figure out about myself.

LAURA: So do you like him? Do you love him? That's
an answer, you can just answer it, it's not a big

deal, you just say yes or no--

MARISHA: (sighs) I'm afraid what will happen if I
say yes.

LAURA: Okay, that's not what I asked, though.
Don't think about the fear. Think about what

you're feeling.

MARISHA: Maybe.

LAURA: (whispering) I think that's a yes.

MARISHA: Will you hate me if I do?

LAURA: No.

MARISHA: You sure? Because I kind of thought you
might for a very long time.

LAURA: You know. I thought I might as well, but
here's the thing. We've been through a lot. We

face death on a very regular basis. (sighs) And I
see the way he looks at you, and I see the way you

look at him. And happiness is fleeting in this
world; we don't know when it will end. Take

advantage of it while you can. And stop living in
fear.

MARISHA: Maybe we're not people who are allowed
happiness.

LAURA: That's bullshit, Keyleth.

MARISHA: And what happens if I lose either of
you?

LAURA: Well, you go on. You can't think about
that!

MARISHA: You've been to the other side. What did
you see? Anything? Is there an afterlife?

LAURA: Well, I wasn't there for very long, but I
think there can be. My brother serves Death,

Keyleth!

MARISHA: And death is a natural thing that happens
with or without him.

LAURA: This is true!

MARISHA: Do you believe in the gods? Do you
believe that Vax actually serves Death?

LAURA: Yes. Yes I do.

MARISHA: What do you think that means for the rest
of us?

LAURA: I think it means that-- I think it means
that what we do has a purpose. Regardless of the

outcome, there is a purpose.

MARISHA: You don't think we're just destroying
everything, everywhere we go?

LAURA: No! Are you kidding? We saved an entire
town today! More dragons may come, but for the

time being, people are safe, and we are safe. If
we are successful, we could save this entire

fucking world.

MARISHA: (laughs) I don't know if I'm cut out to
be a hero.

LAURA: You already are.

MARISHA: (groans) I don't know about that.

LAURA: Anyway. Be happy. Go to him. Just live in
the moment, don't worry about it right now.

MARISHA: Maybe there's another time and another
place where we don't have to. But now I feel like we do.

LAURA: We're in a mansion right now. Fucking
cannonball! And I get up and I cannonball.

MATT: Big splash. Hot water across your face--

TRAVIS: Four and a half!

LAURA: All right. I need a higher-- I need a
broom!

MATT: Servants come by and fill your goblets that
they brought you, with wine, because, drinking in

hot tubs, what could possibly go wrong?

LIAM: Did you just cannonball away?

LAURA: I did.

LIAM: We all do it, we all do it.

ASHLEY: Should we have a cannonball contest?

MARISHA: I cast Breathing Underwater on myself and
I just sink to the bottom of the pool and I just

stay there for a really long time at the bottom of
the pool.

MATT: Do you have Water Breathing prepared? Or was
this your Alter Self gills?

MARISHA: Alter Self! Yeah, totally! Gills. I can
do that.

MATT: So the sides of Keyleth's throat just sprout
gills suddenly and naturally and she sinks

underneath

TRAVIS: (shouting) Keyleth! No! No! And I run over
and pick her up off the bottom, which is

essentially suffocating her, right?

MATT: Grog pulls you out of the water and shakes
you abruptly

MARISHA: Wha--! Ow!

TRAVIS: Gills, sorry. And I shove her back in the
water.

(laughter)

MATT: Back under.

MARISHA: And I just let myself sink again

(laughter)

LIAM: On a side note, I have an earring as well
and I heard everyone go down into the hot springs

so I went back to the kitchen and got some of that
chicken sorbet that they make here.

MATT: It's delicious.

LIAM: And I went back to my sister's room and I
pulled the blanket down and I just smeared it all

along the inside of the bed. And then I bring up
the blanket and tuck it in nice. It looks

perfect.

MATT: The ten servants watch the whole thing and
just nod, well done.

LAURA: That's disgusting!

SAM: They had their orders.

TALIESIN: You are the worst of us.

LIAM: Goodnight boy-girls.

SAM: (husky voice) Goodnight.

TRAVIS: Wait, is Percy in the water?

MATT: Yeah, Percy's in the water with you guys.

ASHLEY: You got in? No, he went into the corner?

TRAVIS: Did you do a cannonball?

TALIESIN: No, I do not cannonball.

LAURA: Cannonball, Percy!

TALIESIN: I do not cannonball!

TRAVIS: Percy!

TALIESIN: I can't wear my glasses, I'm going to
hit something and I'm just going to bleed everywhere

ASHLEY: A cannonball contest?

SAM: You want to do a cannonball contest?

ASHLEY: Let's do a cannonball contest.

TALIESIN: Fine. If there's a dare involved, that's
completely different.

ASHLEY: How much money should we put on it?

SAM: 15,000 gold.

(laughter)

LAURA: How about five pounds of gems?

SAM: Sure. Do we all have that?

LAURA: No, but I have it and I'll put it in the
middle.

SAM: All right. Five pounds of gems.

MATT: Five pounds of gems.

SAM: I haven't been here, but I wander in eating
some chicken with no pants.

(laughter)

MATT: You just got Donald Ducked, guys!

LAURA: Scanlan! Oh Scanlan! Your painting! Your
painting is not accurate, Scanlan!

SAM: Oh. No, of course not. It's artistic licence.
Come on.

(laughter)

TALIESIN: Did they run out of paint, is that what
happened?

SAM: All right, the rules: Everyone gets one jump
to be officiated by--? Who? Sarenrae?

LAURA: Somebody has to-- by your servants.

SAM: They'll vote for me.

(laughter)

MARISHA: Wait! What are we doing? We're doing a
cannonball contest?

MARISHA: Oh, I'll join this. I swim back up to the
top to join.

SAM: Can you officiate? Are you going to join or
are you in too much of a funk to?

ASHLEY: Grog can officiate.

Be fair.

TRAVIS: I will!

ASHLEY: But vote for me.

TRAVIS: Okay.

LAURA: Who's up first?

MATT: Who's going first?

SAM: Alphabetical order.

ASHLEY: Keyleth!

MARISHA: Oh sure.

MATT: So, Keyleth. You go ahead and swim up, take
some time back, rush forward, leap. Make an--

MARISHA: We've had a short rest, right?

MATT: Correct.

MARISHA: Okay. Acrobatics check?

MATT: No, this is an athletics check.

This is a jump, leap and--

MARISHA: Not bad. 19.

LAURA: Oh, that's good.

MATT: She jumps into the air, seemingly
weightless--

MARISHA: And in midair, I use my bonus action to
turn into an earth elemental!

MATT: Turns into an almost literal cannonball,
displaces enough water to the point where the

actual water level in the hot spring, now, is
about two inches lower than it was before--

TALIESIN: I'm going upstairs to get a bottle of
raw sodium.

(laughter)

TALIESIN: It's on, motherfucker!

MARISHA: I come out. Yeah!

ASHLEY: That was good, that was good, that was
good!

TALIESIN: Actually, I send a servant. I tell them
what it is.

MARISHA: Can we refill the pool after each use? Is
it magical enough to where we can refill the pool?

SAM: Sure, there's a trickle--

ASHLEY: Hey, it's my turn! Do a little stretching.

MATT: Do you have your gauntlets on or not?

ASHLEY: Yeah.

MATT: So you're just like--

ASHLEY: Naked with gauntlets.

MATT: You're not wearing anything?

ASHLEY: Nope!

SAM: But you can't see her naughty bits because
they glow with heavenly light.

LIAM: Here come the artists!

TRAVIS: The sound of 10,000 pens hitting paper.

MATT: So this strong, stout, powerful gnomish
female form steps out of the water with these

large gauntlets with an ogre face across the back.
Looms up, gets a good distance, turns around,

focuses, leaps. Make an athletics check.

TRAVIS: Squash that! Ooh, snip diggity!

LAURA: Oh shit!

ASHLEY: 23?

MATT: Amazing as your earth elemental form was, it
displaced about the size an earth elemental would.

Pike's much smaller form managed to displace about
as much as an earth elemental would. Water goes

flying out, spraying you guys. The water itself
takes a while to actually calm down again--

TRAVIS: I actually slip and fall backwards like--

(laughter)

TRAVIS: Whoa!

ASHLEY: Whoa, that was a big one!

(laughter)

MATT: Who's up next?

LAURA: Percy.

TALIESIN: I'm not done, I'm still working on
something.

ASHLEY: Oh, wait, you should have gone before me.
I'm sorry.

TALIESIN: I'm working on something, you go next.
I've got a pot and some cloth, and a whole thing--

LAURA: Oh, I'm the only one that's left?

SAM: No, I'm here too! L, M, N, P, Q, R, S. That's
me! Oh boy.

ASHLEY: Sorry I jumped you, Percy-- He was gone,
that's why.

SAM: I'm going to take a flying leap and jump in
while cannonballing.

MATT: All right, athletics check.

SAM: Sploosh. That's an 11.

(laughter)

SAM: And when I hit the water I set off a level
two Thunderwave.

(laughter)

MATT: So Scanlan doesn't sprint but gingerly jogs
up to the side of the pool, leaps in the air. It

sends waves out from each side and drenches all of
you waiting on the side again--

(laughter)

MATT: As the water comes rushing back, slapping
into you, Scanlan, after the fact but,

nevertheless, a very impressive display.

SAM: Why, thank you. Take a bow, take a bow.

ASHLEY: Good job, good job.

SAM: Thank you, thank you. Percy, are you back
yet?

TALIESIN: I'm ready.

MATT: All right.

TALIESIN: I've got a kettle--

(laughter)

TALIESIN: And what is essentially a giant
cheesecloth teabag of raw sodium in an oil holding base.

You are aware of what will happen when I
hit the water?

MATT: Yep.

TALIESIN: Okay, cool. I grab the kettle. I put it
to my chest. I take a run, and I leap into--

MARISHA: Isn't this is detrimental to your
health?!

PERCY: Yes, this is a terrible idea. Do not do
this. Do not do this. You will die. And I take a

run and jump head into the--

MARISHA: (shouting) Percy, no!

MATT: Make an athletics check.

TALIESIN: Not acrobatics? Athletics. 23

MATT: 23, okay. So, as you land and hit the water,
there's a momentary pause, a little (sploosh,

explosion sound). A secondary explosion that
sounds dulled and covered until it hits the air in

a loud cacophonous (explosion sound). Water and
smoke and pieces of metal go flying as the kettle

is destroyed. You, Percy, suffer--

TALIESIN: Should have mostly directed down but I'm
aware that some--

MATT: Yeah. 23 points of bludgeoning and piercing
damage from shrapnel and pieces of metal that have

just scattered across your chest but nevertheless,
a very impressive display.

LIAM: For science!

ASHLEY: Total Party Kill cannonball!

TRAVIS: I look down and pull out a small piece of
the kettle out of my pectoral and toss it away.

That was very impressive, all of you. I'm very
impressed. It seems that--

SAM: The twins!

MATT: The twins haven't gone.

TRAVIS: Oh, oh! I'm so sorry.

LAURA: It's all right, Grog.

TRAVIS: No, no. Get it. Go do it.

LAURA: All right. I take my broom.

LIAM: Here comes the bellyflop--

LAURA: I know, right? I fly 20 feet up. As high as
the ceiling. How high is the ceiling?

SAM: Not that high.

LAURA: I get to the top of the ceiling.

MATT: Okay, it's about 15, 20 feet up from the
water's surface.

LAURA: All right. I stand up on the broom.

MATT: Ceiling's right above you. You're
having to hunch forward a little bit.

LAURA: And right as I cannonball off of the broom,
I release Trinket out of the necklace too so

(shouting) double cannonball!

MATT: As you leap off, make an athletics check.

LAURA: 13!

MATT: Make an athletics check for Trinket.

LAURA: Oh, man. I thought that was going to be
good. Me and Trinket kind of suck. What

is that, strength?

MATT: Strength, yes.

LAURA: 16.

MATT: 16. As you hit the water, there's a (double
splooshing sound) as a bear is suddenly placed

magically into the water beneath you at the same
velocity, causing the water itself to splash

outward, in a large column, a spray that gently
comes down around the sides of the initial splash.

Impressive, a very impressive display.

SAM: Impressive. And she didn't really use magic,
so that's good. Bonus points there.

MATT: Trinket eventually comes out of the water.
(growl, shaking coat sound) Shakes off.

LIAM: Is the judging of this up to artistic
interpretation, like ice skating?

SAM: That's up to Grog!

TRAVIS: Well done, all around. Really, I'm really
quite impressed. However, there was only one--

ASHLEY: Hang on. He still has to go.

LAURA: No, he's not in the room.

ASHLEY: He's not in the room.

TRAVIS: Yeah, wait. Is Vax going to do it? Is he
coming down?

LAURA: Is he stealthing right now and he's
actually in the room?

SAM: I don't think so.

LIAM: (snoring)

TRAVIS: No, there was only one that managed to draw
blood with their display. Therefore, Percy is the

winner.

(applause)

SAM: Well met, well met. Five pounds of gems?

LAURA: Yeah.

LIAM: He needs it!

MATT: He takes it and smiles as the blood slowly
runs from one nostril--

(laughter)

ASHLEY: Oh man!

TALIESIN: Now, if you'll excuse me, I need to
sleep off this spa.

(laughter)

LIAM: Those gems are going to turn into lead,
aren't they?

TALIESIN: Got plans for one of them--

MATT: He takes the gems in one hand, takes the
towel, wraps it around as he steps out of the

water with the other and makes his way outside of
the spa.

TALIESIN: Leaving a little trail of blood all the
way down the corridor.

(laughter)

SAM: Good game, good game.

MATT: All righty.

TRAVIS: Well, I'm going to bed.

LAURA: All right, all right.

MATT: All right. You guys go, find your way to
your respective rooms, rest for the remainder of

the evening. Wake up to the smell of wonderfully
cooked chicken wafting through the hallways of

the mansion. The only person that has a unique
evening's sleeping is Vex, who slides into her

comfortable, silk sheet bed to a (sucking sound)
to find some sort of now chilled but loosely

room-temperature chicken paste--

LAURA: That is just disgusting.

TALIESIN: Don't you mean, that's fowl?

(groaning)

TRAVIS: Oh! Fowl!

LAURA: I don't even care. Trinket loves it.

MATT: And Trinket is all over that. Trinket is now
just lapping it up from the inside of the bed--

LAURA: Yeah. I just go to sleep and I'll take a
shower in the morning.

MATT: Okay. All right. You all wake up. Breakfast
is at your disposal. You begin to eat comfortably,

you wash up, Vex--

LAURA: A lot.

MATT: Is there anything else you wish to achieve
here or shall we continue with the rest of your

journey?

SAM: Well, we just have a few things to divvy up.
I've learned about the book that we found from the

dragon. It is filled with knowledge that can
increase someone's abilities.

LAURA: What abilities?

SAM: The abilities that I happen to be very good
at would be even better.

LAURA: Hmm.

MARISHA: I don't want any part of that.

SAM: It's not my sex abilities.

MARISHA: Oh, oh. Okay.

SAM: Actually, technically yes. Technically, yes.
My sex ability--

LAURA: What abilities? (laughs)

SAM: Charismatic abilities.

LAURA: Oh?

ASHLEY: Oh, it just gives you, you have all the
charisma?

SAM: Permanently better charisma.

LAURA: Well, Keyleth, as you make that awkward-ass
face, maybe you should improve your charisma.

LIAM: You smell like chicken.

LAURA: Yeah, somebody put chicken paste in my bed.
I don't know who it could be.

LIAM: Yeah, we've got to get out of this mansion.

LAURA: Yeah. Weird.

TRAVIS: Well, I also went to my room and I was
like "Man, what I could really--" and I was

holding the jug, at the time, and I was like, "I'm
just going to break it, nobody'll know--"

SAM: Oh shit!

TRAVIS: It'll be great. And I was like, "I could
really go for some beer right now," and all of a

sudden, the jug was full of shitloads of beer.

LAURA: What?!

TRAVIS: Yeah.

SAM: Is it a never-ending beer jug?

TRAVIS: Oh no, it's not never-ending. It stopped
after a bit. But I got plenty fucking wasted.

LAURA: Is it just beer?

SAM: Is it just beer? Or is it any spirit? Or
what?

TRAVIS: No, I said "mayonnaise" and it started to
make mayonnaise and then it stopped so I think

there's a finite amount of stuff it can make in a
day.

(disconcerted oohs)

LAURA: Do you have a jug of mayonnaise now?

TRAVIS: No, I ate that too.

(laughter)

MATT: In the wee hours of the morning--

TALIESIN: There's chicken!

LIAM: That was one of the best exchanges of our
entire run!

ASHLEY: Oh my God.

TALIESIN: Wow!

MATT: So--

LAURA: Gross!

ASHLEY: I can't stop laughing.

LIAM: Oh my goodness.

MATT: So, what else?

(laughter)

SAM: Okay, now you're going to get a bunch of
mayonnaise shipped to our PO box.

(laughter)

LAURA: No mayonnaise!

LIAM: Beer. Send beer, is fine.

MARISHA: Oh, that one brought tears.

ASHLEY: Please somebody draw him just sad in his
room eating mayonnaise--

MATT: Scooping mayonnaise out of a jar.

TALIESIN: A Grecian urn of mayonnaise.

ASHLEY: Oh, my tears.

MATT: Saddest Winnie the Pooh ever--

SAM: I also found out that that one of the vials
is a potion vial. It can temporarily give the

drinker a spell of Etherealness. Which is like you
temporarily turn into Casper the Friendly Ghost.

You can pass through walls.

LAURA: Oh cool!

SAM: Anyone who drinks it.

MARISHA: Vax?

LAURA: Oh, that would be good for you.

MATT: Well, less drinking. More like applying.

SAM: Oh, it's rubbing?

MATT: Yeah, it's an oil.

LAURA: Oh, don't drink it.

MATT: I would not recommend drinking it.

SAM: I can rub it on your back for you.

MARISHA: Yeah, you have to rub it on you.

LIAM: I'm all right with that.

(laughter)

TALIESIN: You'd need to use a stepping stool to do
it, but you could.

LAURA: The other one was a Potion of Climbing,
which we decided--

MARISHA: Does Pike want it? Oh, you?

SAM: No, it's Vex.

LAURA: I suck at it, but anybody else can have
it.

TRAVIS: Don't you have a broom? You ain't going to
be climbing much.

LAURA: That's true! I don't need it. I have a
broom!

TALIESIN: Actually, I might take it. High ground
is occasionally very useful for me.

LAURA: I've got a broom that flies.

TALIESIN: And I'm not that strong.

MARISHA: What was the name of that tome again,
Scanlan?

SAM: Tome of Leadership and Influence. I'm torn,
Keyleth. You have some charisma issues, shall we say?

MARISHA: Uh-huh. No, keep telling me about myself,
Scanlan, today.

SAM: Well, I'm just saying that I am quite
self-confident, sure of myself. Some would say

charming.

LAURA: Some. Not most.

SAM: And this book would make me unstoppably so--

MARISHA: Sure.

SAM: So, I don't know, we could roshambo for it?
What does the group think?

LIAM: I think Keyleth should read it. She's trying
to lead her people.

TRAVIS: Yeah. Roshambo for it.

MARISHA: I don't want to-- what? I don't like
wanting things. I don't care, you--

LAURA: Who has-- This is-- who has charisma-based
spells?

SAM: Me?

MATT: You.

LIAM: That's a big fat pause, is what that is.

MATT: Yeah.

SAM: Why don't we think on it?

MARISHA: All right, we'll think on it.

TALIESIN: To be fair, it takes days.

SAM: It takes six days of reading to take effect.

LAURA: Oh shit. So if you read for two days and
then pass it off to someone else, does it just

restart?

MARISHA: No.

TALIESIN: It's once a century it works.

TRAVIS: Oh shit! Once a century?

TALIESIN: I have a similar book, that I used--

LAURA: What did you use it on?

SAM: Yeah, you live for many centuries, Keyleth.
You can have it nexties!

(laughter)

TALIESIN: That's actually a very fair point.

TRAVIS: That's kind of perfect.

TALIESIN: I was about to say, would you like a
Manual of Quickness? Here, for you--

(laughter)

MARISHA: Oh, for the next century?

TALIESIN: So 99 years from now--

MARISHA: Sure, I'll hold onto it for that long.

TRAVIS: When we're all cold and dead!

TALIESIN: I was holding onto it in the hopes of
finding somebody long-lived to sell it to.

SAM: Speaking of old, are some of us older than we
used to be?

TRAVIS: Yeah!

MARISHA: Are we still old? It would have worn off,
right?

MATT: I would say, for the purposes of the travel,
because you guys had a few days' travel from the

actual Sphinx's lair, towards Westruun when you
were travellng back, you had the opportunity to

use Greater Restoration to get rid of it.

MARISHA: Between Pike and I--

MATT: Yeah, in that time.

SAM: What if we don't want to be any younger?

MATT: Then you could have said no and kept it as
you go. If you wanted to take in your nice salt

and pepper--

LAURA: How old are you now, Scanlan, if you keep
it?

SAM: I don't know.

ASHLEY: That salt and pepper hair?

SAM: A girl never tells her age.

MATT: Would you want to maintain your little
creeping Reed Richards going on at the sides there?

SAM: No, I'll get young again.

MATT: Slightly.

SAM: Slightly.

MARISHA: He said, begrudgingly.

MATT: I know.

LIAM: Set that dial back to 39.

MATT: All right then. Anything else?

MARISHA: What were you going to say, Percy?

TALIESIN: I was thinking, perhaps, you're not
necessarily the person to magically augment your path.

MARISHA: That's kind of my hesitance about it, I
guess.

TALIESIN: I had meditated upon the idea for a
minute.

MARISHA: I'm honestly kind of afraid of what kind
of leadership things and influence it could

possibly tell me. I don't know. I don't know. I
don't know.

TALIESIN: (laughs)

SAM: I do!

MARISHA: You can read it, Scanlan.

SAM: Yes!

(laughter)

TALIESIN: At the very least, it'll keep him busy
for four or five days.

MARISHA: That's true.

ASHLEY: That's true. That's true.

TALIESIN: Because you have to read for 48 hours--

LAURA: What if he gets even more charismatic and
then he proposes again? And he charms you more?

ASHLEY: Well, if he's so charming, I just wouldn't
be able to help it.

LAURA: It's possible.

MARISHA: I know, that's my-- actually, my only
other regret is do we want to turn Scanlan into a

charm nuclear weapon? Because that's what we'll be
doing.

LAURA: I kind of do want to do that. He is super
good at talking to people.

MARISHA: He is.

TALIESIN: And I think there's enough of us that we
could all keep each other in check, from--

LIAM: Between Grog and Scanlan, we can solve any
problem, I think, so beef him up, so to speak.

MARISHA: Tell me what kind of leadership things--
who wrote that, Scanlan?

SAM: Lao Tsu.

MARISHA: Tell me what kind of leadership skills Lao
Tsu wants to bestow upon you. If there's any good

ones, pass them along.

SAM: All right, I'll give you some tips.

MARISHA: All right.

MATT: (laughs) All right. You guys finish your
breakfast, make your way outside of the mansion, back

into the dragon's den. Is there anything else you
wish to do before you leave? As you can only take

the amount of gold that you retrieved, and the
items you could farm, the rest will have to be left

behind, hopefully to be retrieved at some point down
the line by either the remnants of Westruun or

yourselves.

LIAM: I'll just say that I've attuned to all my
old shit while everyone was swimming.

MATT: Okay. Cool.

LAURA: Yeah, yeah. I carved a pretty little heart
on the side of one of the boots just to make it

extra girly.

MATT: Make a perception check.

LIAM: I would just think that meant you love me.

LAURA: Maybe I do.

LIAM: Uh, that is a 39.

LAURA: (laughs) What?!

LIAM: 17 plus perception is-- did I get it wrong?
Am I too tired? I've had a long day, people. Let's

say 29.

MATT: Did you take perception as one of your--

LIAM: Yeah.

MATT: Oh, then yeah. Okay. You take the boots and
you put them on and immediately, there's a heart

there. And you're like (pained) hmm. That probably
means she loves me.

LIAM: No, I like it. It's fine!

MATT: Yeah. At first you're like, sh-- oh no, it's
cool.

LIAM: I don't know what you're thinking. It's
beautiful.

MATT: All right, you guys are back in the dragon's
lair. Is there anything else you wish to do?

TALIESIN: We're going to make sure we walk around
the trap that is still active in the front--

TRAVIS: Right.

MATT: Make your way back through the tunnel that
you had carved before--

LIAM: Have to avoid that old magic.

TRAVIS: Is there any lasting damage from the acid
burns?

MATT: Thankfully, through magic healing and other
means there was no scarring. The tattoos and beard

that were partially destroyed--

TRAVIS: I was going to ask: beard?

MATT: Yeah, the beard's a little bit reduced from
the sheer volume of acid that was thrown at your

face but since healing magic was applied shortly
thereafter, the little bit of the beard that began

to singe, it stopped that process. So you still
have some facial hair, just may have to grow back

to its full majesty--

TRAVIS: I may need a haircut in a day or two.

TALIESIN: Ooh. Can you Stone Shape something for
me?

I would like to have Keyleth Stone Shape
and use one dragon scale, if you would be so kind.

Or, actually, one tooth if that would be all
right.

MARISHA: Sure. Tooth me.

TALIESIN: I would like to leave the "VM" seal on
the side of the cavern.

LAURA: (gasps)

TALIESIN: And just written in-- what would a
dragon understand?

MATT: Draconic.

TALIESIN: Draconic?

LIAM: We have somebody who can do that--

TALIESIN: "One down" and let's embed the tooth
into the rock.

SAM: Ooh.

TRAVIS: Yes! I like it.

TALIESIN: We might as well.

LAURA: I like it. I like it.

MARISHA: So I do the Vox Machina crest.

MATT: Okay.

MARISHA: And then "one down." Who speaks
Draconic?

MATT: All right, so you get with her. You scribble
onto the ground what that phrase would look like.

You go ahead and copy that and you embed it
permanently and immediately into the side of the stone.

LIAM: And I said, bitch!

MATT: All righty. You guys make your way down
Gatshadow, through the Bramblewood Forest to

Westruun itself. As you hit the base of the
mountain, start getting towards the edge of the

forest, you see a pillar of smoke rising up from
that direction--

MARISHA: From Westruun?

MATT: A relatively thick pillar of smoke, a few
actually.

LAURA: Oh no!

MARISHA: Wait. What?

SAM: Uh-oh. They've already attacked.

TRAVIS: No, we go fast. We go.

MATT: All right. You guys rush through the
remainder of the Bramblewood, come out into the

field and are met by what looks like a series of
fires that are out in the open field, north of

Westruun, not within the actual city. You see these
are pyres. The dead of the Umbrasyl battle have

been set aflame, being given off the proper heroes'
sending. It is a standard after-battle remembrance

of those who fell for the herd. You see standing
amongst them the twelve surviving members of the

battle, many of them pretty badly scarred from the
encounter but alive, nonetheless. Bandaged and

kind of taking a moment of silence. You do see of
that group, as well, Zanror and Worra are there.

They haven't noticed you yet. And standing behind
them all, one large aimless stone golem with a big

chain hanging out of its chest, just standing
there.

MARISHA: Fassbender!

SAM: Who controls him?

LIAM: No one at the moment.

MATT: Yep.

LAURA: Oh, you took it off?

LIAM: I took it off.

MARISHA: But you have the circlet still.

LIAM: Of course I have the circlet, yeah, but--

TALIESIN: I'll take it if no one else does.

LIAM: Sure.

TRAVIS: Can I find my way to Zanror? Is his-- is
she his wife? His woman--

MATT: His mate, Worra. Yeah, they're both next to
each other and as you get closer you notice most

of them have gathered their belongings. They have
travel packs. They have taken sacks and whatever

they could to bring whatever belonged to them and
it looks like they are getting ready to move. You

see Shale a bit behind them, as well, who has also
taken some small supplies with her one good arm

and putting it over her shoulder and tying it to
her armor before she grabs her staff again. So

you walk over to Zanror and Worra. Zanror looks
over to you as you approach, his arm still around

Worra's shoulder. "It's good to see you survived,
Grog."

TRAVIS: Yeah. Did more than that, actually. Found
our way up to the cave where Umbrasyl was. Left

him in pieces.

MATT: "As Shale told us. 'The Bearded King,' she
said."

TRAVIS: (laughs) A word of advice. If, as you're
finding your way out of town, you were to stop by

a certain cave, there might be some things for you
to pick up.

LAURA: Gro--

LIAM: I take my sister, put my hand over her
mouth, and I drag her back about 30 feet.

MATT: He gives you a look, and looks to Worra,
looks to her belly--

LAURA: (whispers) That's for the people of
Westruun!

MATT: --and goes, "Appreciate that. We'll take what
we can."

TRAVIS: Your little one. You take care of him.
Her. It.

MATT: "I will."

TRAVIS: All right.

MATT: "Do you want to come with us? We know we
cast you out once, but we're not like that

"anymore. The herd's dead. We go to find prosperity
with the Rivermaw. A people we wronged and we're

"probably going to spend some time making it up to
them, for my father's infractions. You're one of

"us now, and we'd be honored to have you."

TRAVIS: I'm honored. Truly I am. But I lost a
family, all those years ago. And while I will

always think fondly of you, I have a new family
now, and I must stay and guard them with my life.

MATT: "I understand. Well. I'm not very good at
these parting pleasantries." He puts his arm out.

MATT and TRAVIS: (crashing sound)

SAM: Stereo.

TRAVIS: Come on, it blew your hair back when it
happened.

MATT: Yeah, a little bit, little bit.

TRAVIS: Magnavox, like (squeal sound)!

MATT: "You be safe. You find your way, head north
of the Silvercut. You're always welcome in our tents."

TRAVIS: I'll keep that in mind. Travel safely.

MATT: He goes ahead and takes up his bags. Shale
takes up her staff, comes up to you, and: "We'll

"see each other again, Grog. Of this I'm sure."

TRAVIS: Yeah. Hm, totally sure, heh. You look out
for that other eye now. Don't lose the other,

because then you'll just be like (scared noise) in
the dark.

MATT: As you're doing that she smacks you on the
nose with the staff. "I'll be fine." And she walks

away with a smile on her weathered, crooked face.
Zanror yells out, "Come! We move west." Everyone

turns their heads and gather their things and they
walk by. As all the soldiers walk by, those

wounded and not, to each of you they bow their
heads in respect. And you swear you hear a couple

of murmured "thank you" as they all solemnly make
their way out west, away from Westruun.

LIAM: Is it just the remainder of the herd?

MATT: Mm-hmm.

LIAM: Herd leader! We trust you will leave
something in that cave for the people of this

town. Something to help them recover.

MATT: Zanror turns to you, and says, "There's very
little in our lifestyle that really has use of

"this coin, just enough to make it from place to
place if need be. Besides, occasionally we need

"supplies, something to trade with. I'm not like my
father. This I've learned in recent months."

LIAM: Prosperity on your family.

MATT: "Hm." Looks to Grog. "Your family as well."
Turns around and continues to walk.

LAURA: You're lucky he's nice, Grog.

TRAVIS: What, what?

LAURA: Offering all the gold to the herd instead
of the people of Westruun.

TRAVIS: I didn't offer all of it. I said there was
something to pick up. He might have grabbed a

bunch of mud, what are you so upset about?

LIAM: He meant well.

TRAVIS: Yeah.

MATT: As you guys make your way-- uh, where are
you heading?

SAM: Into Westruun?

TRAVIS: Yeah, yeah, yeah.

MARISHA: Is the gold pile trap still there?

MATT: It is, yes.

TALIESIN: It's sprung. We have to pick it up.

LAURA: Is our gold still there?

MATT: Your gold is not there.

(groaning)

LAURA: It's a good thing I only put a little bit
in.

LIAM: I'm going to go take like five minutes. I'm
going to kneel down and sort of meditate in front

of one of the pyres.

MATT: Okay. (laughing) But what you do notice,
ironically, while the gold is still there, it's

scattered about. Because there's been an explosion
where the gold was left behind.

LAURA: (gasps) Oh shit.

ASHLEY: Oops.

(laughter)

ASHLEY: My bad. I made a bomb!

MATT: Nearby, there is a groove in the dirt that
is dragged on for about four, five hundred feet,

before there appears to be a body at the edge.

LIAM: Dead dwarf?

MARISHA: It's a dwarf?

MATT: No, it's not. It's the gentleman who
disappeared as you let him out of prison.

(shouting)

TRAVIS: That son of a bitch! That thieving
bastard?

LAURA: He deserves it!

MARISHA: The fucking asshole that peaced out!

TRAVIS: Blackfoot-- what was his name?

MATT: Oran Blackfoot.

LAURA: I knew he was going to go for the gold.
That's what he thought he was going to do.

MATT: As soon as you guys left, he seized the
opportunity.

(laughter)

TRAVIS: Good kill. Good kill.

ASHLEY: All right, all right, all right.

LIAM: I'm taking a moment to pay my respects to
the dead.

MATT: Okay.

MARISHA: I do the same.

TALIESIN: I'm attuning Fassbender. And working on
getting the chain removed from him.

MARISHA: Keyleth takes a minute to Druidcraft some
wildflowers around the pyre.

MATT: Okay. As you guys are taking this break,
Vex, you notice a small group of individuals

walking from the town in your direction. Make a
perception check.

LAURA: I bent my paper. (high voice) 17!

MATT: Okay. You glance over and, best you can
make out, some appear to be armored, some appear

to be just carrying sacks and goods. There's a
cart being dragged behind with two beasts of

burden affixed to the front, a set of horses, and
at the front of them you see a human male wearing

chain mail with a heavy shield to one side,
walking up and approaching. He's mid to late 40s,

big black- and gray-streaked beard pulled into two
points, wild crazy-looking dark hair, also gray

streaked. Sun-dappled nose. He walks up with his
hand in the air.

LAURA: Oi, friend.

MATT: Can we go ahead and have our guest enter?

LAURA: Ooh!

LIAM: I know that guy!

(cheers)

SAM: Sorry for the wait.

MATT: We had to have a hot spring episode.

MARISHA: Very important cannonball competition we
had to get to.

PATRICK: I'm sorry that I was laughing loud enough
for the mics to pick it up. Some people on Twitter

were saying that they heard me laugh.

MATT: That's fine. Patrick Rothfuss, joining us
today!

SAM: Fabulous writer. Good person.

PATRICK: That's not me.

MATT: So, as you're walking up from the city of
Westruun, carrying behind you the group of

eager-to-leave refugees that have gathered around
you, you notice the burning spires, and you see

the remnants of the horde leaving westward behind
the group of heroes that you all had feared had

gone to the top of the mountain to meet their
doom. They stand before you alive and resting, and

as you approach to hail them, one of them, the
half-elf female, hails you.

LAURA: Sir, how fares-- (stuttering) How are you
doing?

SAM: Charisma!

LAURA: Give me the book. Give me the book!

TRAVIS: Amazing. Couldn't have done any better.

LAURA: What's happening in the town? Are you
leaving?

PATRICK: How many people are left in town and how
many have come with me?

MATT: In town, there's probably a couple hundred
that are scattered throughout. Most of them have

left, the party has sent them out, but many
individuals that they didn't get to have still

been holed up in their homes. You have with you
right now 20 people, and these are the folks

that have congregated around you to figure out a
plan of what to do.

PATRICK: Okay.

SAM: What's with all the questions, narc?

(laughter)

PATRICK: I will admit I did not expect to see you
folk again.

LAURA: Well, we're here.

PATRICK: What's happened?

LAURA: You know that dragon?

PATRICK: I noticed the dragon.

LAURA: Gone. Killed. Destroyed. Vox Machina!

(laughter)

LAURA: Give me the book.

SAM: Nope.

PATRICK: I don't know what to say. I was expecting
to have to bury some more bodies.

LAURA: Thankfully, that is not the case. And you
are smart, with leaving town.

PATRICK: Well, the town itself hasn't decided
exactly what to do, how much to rebuild, or

whether or not it's even worth it.

But now, at least we can make some
plans.

LAURA: Definitely.

SAM: Oi, what's your name?

PATRICK: Oh. My name is Kerr.

SAM: Kerr?

LAURA: Like Care Bear?

MARISHA: Is that with a C or a K?

PATRICK: (laughs) With a K.

MARISHA: Okay. Kerr. I like it.

SAM: And tell us about yourself, if you don't
mind.

PATRICK: I have been here in this town for a
while. I settled down after-- I had a bit of an

adventurous youth.

SAM: Ooh! I like!

TRAVIS: Yeah, me too.

PATRICK: How old do these guys look?

MATT: They look younger than you. They look like a
bunch of young upstarts, for the most part.

PATRICK: They're puppies, right?

MATT: They're puppies, but looking close up, you
can see weathered experiences in their eyes.

PATRICK: They came back from the dragon. But
still, these are like kids, right?

MATT: From your perspective? Yeah.

PATRICK: Yeah.

SAM: I'm an adult man!

MATT: Who's just roughly past your knee.

PATRICK: I welcome you back to what is left of the
town, and I offer my thanks, and thanks on behalf

of those of us that are left.

LAURA: Are you responsible for these pyres?

PATRICK: The town has been pulling together, and
we have been doing what we can with what we have.

MARISHA: And what's your position been in
Westruun?

PATRICK: Oh, I don't have a position in the city.
I'm just the smith.

LAURA: You're a blacksmith?

TRAVIS: You make weapons?

PATRICK: Yes.

LAURA: Armor?

PATRICK: Armor.

SAM: Percy?

TALIESIN: Well, I make things. They're not--

SAM: Maybe you guys could collab on a joint
project.

TALIESIN: Smithing and gadgetry, while I can see
how, to the layman, they look very similar, are in

fact quite different.

SAM: I actually might have a project for you, if
we have a moment.

MARISHA: Okay, before we start hitting him up for
work.

TALIESIN: Is this everybody you could round up to
get out of the city?

PATRICK: Well, this is everyone who was interested
in coming out on this particular expedition.

TRAVIS: Oh, yeah! What is your expedition?

PATRICK: Mostly exploratory. Like I said, we just
didn't have any information at all. I didn't know

if we were going to be burying more bodies, or
dealing with an increasingly angry dragon.

LAURA: Well, the dragon in the mountain is dead,
but there are increasingly angered dragons in

other cities that will probably be coming here to
retaliate.

PATRICK: That will be coming here?

SAM: Possibly.

LAURA: More than likely.

MARISHA: Probably.

TALIESIN: Maybe.

MARISHA: We don't know.

TRAVIS: No. No chance.

(laughter)

SAM: Actually, this raises an important question.
What do the people of Westruun do at this point?

Do they rebuild? Do they go underground? Do they
leave and abandon the city?

LIAM: It's a huge question, yes. What do you
think, personally? What is this small group that

you're leading? What's your plan?

PATRICK: I offered to come along with them in case
they needed a strong arm. I don't speak for the

town. I just know most of the people involved, and
I wanted to make sure they stayed safe. But the

truth is, there's a lot of people who have nothing
to rebuild, and nothing to rebuild it with. And if

there might be dragons coming back, I don't know.

TRAVIS: Well, Kerr, Pike and I are both from
Westruun. Yeah. Yep.

ASHLEY: I've seen you before. Do you know Wilhand?
My great-great-grandfather?

LAURA: Great great?

ASHLEY: Great-great. Yeah. Two greats, not just
one.

MATT: A tiny, hunched over gnomish gentleman, a
little absent-minded but friendly enough, keeps to

himself.

LAURA: Likes to drink.

PATRICK: Ah!

ASHLEY: Yes. You probably have had some drinks
with him before.

PATRICK: A little bit. And I haven't met you, but
I've heard of you.

TRAVIS: Oh, yeah?

PATRICK: Yeah!

TRAVIS: What have you heard?

PATRICK: I heard that you were a good member of
the community.

TRAVIS: Yep, that's me.

SAM: Nope. You are incorrect.

TRAVIS: Totally.

ASHLEY: He was, and is, but we're just never
home.

TRAVIS: Grog. Grog is my name.

LIAM: Kerr, do you have a sense of how many people
are left in the city, roughly?

PATRICK: Maybe as many as a couple hundred.

LAURA: Oh, that's it?

MARISHA: That's not a lot.

PATRICK: A lot of people have been leaving, but
some people can't.

TRAVIS: Well, look, I would just like to put this
forward. Westruun is their home. It's Pike's home,

it's my home. And if you start running, you never
really stop.

SAM: But where are they going to stay? I've been
down to the sewers, and there's crazy giant

creatures down there.

TRAVIS: Well, you can treat it like a weather
shelter. If the dragons come, we set up an early

warning system. They go underground. But this is
their home.

TALIESIN: Here's an interesting thing to
contemplate about this whole problem, is that we

have three dragons still at large. Three dragons
who have probably found cities of their own, so

the chances that they're going to come back and
take time away from their own city to go look at

one that's, in theory, already taken over is very
thin. And if they are traveling, then they're

going to travel to cities that haven't been
plundered yet.

LAURA: That's true, this one has been plundered.

TALIESIN: This is no less or more. There's a risk
either way. It's just the risk of running or the

risk of staying.

SAM: Also the dragons know that the last dragon
who came here died.

MARISHA: I think the dragons' motives have
probably shifted by now, and where the dragons

might not be interested in plundering anymore,
instead might be interested in any city that we

are in.

TALIESIN: Which, I imagine we're leaving soon,
anyway.

LIAM: Yeah, they might not believe we'd be here,
but they also might try to--

TRAVIS: Kerr, are you an honest man?

PATRICK: I've been called an honest man.

SAM: I insight check him!

TRAVIS: Can I insight check-- Oh yeah, you do
that.

(laughter)

MATT: You may both make insight checks.

SAM: 19.

TRAVIS: (high voice) Four.

TALIESIN: If you whisper to Grog, it's going to
make me really happy. Yes!

SAM: He just said, you fart.

TALIESIN: Mightily.

MATT: Excuse me for just a minute.

SAM: What was this about Loot Crate?

TRAVIS: Three dollars off if you use
lootcrate.com/criticalrole next week!

MARISHA: But that's no secret!

SAM: I trust him with my life. I pledge my
allegiance to you, sir.

TRAVIS: You just dabbed to him.

MARISHA: Scanlan literally hasn't said that to me
in the entire three years I've known him.

SAM: What was your name again?

TALIESIN: Scanlan just found out that Kerr has a
daughter, is what he found out.

TRAVIS: Wow, you pledge your life to him? Jeez.

MARISHA: Kerr. You said you were an adventurer
several years ago.

PATRICK: Many years ago. Many years ago. I've
lived here-- I've lived here a lifetime at this point.

MARISHA: Did you have a party that you traveled
with as well?

PATRICK: I did.

MARISHA: Would we happen to know any of them?
Allura? Asum?

PATRICK: No, that was a long time ago, and I'd be
very surprised if you'd heard any of the stories

from back then. I will say, though, from what I
know about dragons, that perhaps vengeance might

not be outside a reasonable expectation. There
might not be anything here for them to plunder, but--

MARISHA: But no one likes having their ass handed
to them.

PATRICK: And these creatures are old and
intelligent and powerful, and they stay that way

by striking fear into people. And (sighs) as much
as I hate to leave my own home, I don't know who

will be able to help my people if any other things
like this happen.

MARISHA: We can't be everywhere at once.

LIAM: What about the sewers?

SAM: Well, we were down there, and there was
horrible, creepy things.

LIAM: We could help with that.

SAM: We could clear out the sewers.

MARISHA: But that's not indefinite.

TRAVIS: No, it's not.

MARISHA: They'll be back.

LAURA: The only other option is--

TALIESIN: There's the traveling band, by the
river.

LAURA: Split the city up? Set them on different
paths?

LIAM: There's Whitestone.

TALIESIN: Whitestone is rapidly becoming a very
large target.

LAURA: Very quickly becoming noticeable, I think.

LIAM: Ever been to Vasselheim?

PATRICK: Refugees are often very unwelcome, too,
and most of the people here did not have much left

to lose before they lost it.

LAURA: We have claim to the gold that was stolen.
It's up in the mountain. It's just hard to get down.

TALIESIN: Someone honest is going to have to come
and help divvy it up amongst the survivors.

PATRICK: We can look for an honest person.

MARISHA: But if all of the survivors are
evacuating the city--

PATRICK: We could probably-- I know enough people
to put together a group of carters to go up there

and start fetching stuff down?

MATT: Yeah. And the people that have gathered
around you are people that have been around you

most of the time you've been in the city, or
at least have known you long enough to the point

where they themselves are also like-minded, so you
can trust most of the folks that have walked with

you out towards the pyres.

PATRICK: I'll say, excuse me for just a minute,
and I'll walk off and I'll chat with them a little

bit, so you can see that I'm pointing up. I'll do
a little talk off with them, so you can talk about

me behind my-- Without me.

SAM: I like this guy.

TRAVIS: You do?

LAURA: Why do you pledge yourself to him?

SAM: I just feel like he's an honest man. He's a
good guy. He's got a nice twinkle in his eye and I

recognize that as a sign of honesty, because I
have a similar feature.

LAURA: You do? I've never noticed a twinkle in
your eye.

SAM: Yeah, the light has to hit it just--

LAURA: No, it's a crusty from the morning. You
might just-- yeah.

TALIESIN: How do you get glitter in there?

TRAVIS: That seems like such a shame. I mean,
shouldn't we ask the people of Westruun if they

want to stay or go?

SAM: Well, there's only 200. We could have a huge
meeting and put it to a vote.

TRAVIS: A town hall thing?

LAURA: Why not?

MARISHA: But he said some people were incapable of
leaving. There might be elderly and sick here that

can't travel.

SAM: Is there a way to hide the city with magic?
We've seen that done before.

LAURA: Can we make it look like it's already been
burned down?

TALIESIN: It has already been burned down.

MATT: (laughs)

TALIESIN: That won't be hard at all.

LAURA: Can we hide?

LIAM: Can't they have sentries and a shelter in
the sewers? They could clear out part of it and

have sentries every night, and any time a dragon
comes, they just go underground and wait. Wait it out.

TALIESIN: I don't think this is a terrible-- I
think this is a pretty reasonable idea.

LAURA: What do you think, Grog, Pike?

TRAVIS: That's what I said.

ASHLEY: I feel like it's a good idea.

TRAVIS: Yeah. I don't--

MARISHA: Hang on, hold the phone. Hold the phone.

SAM: We could spend a few days here and get them
started before we go on to our next thing.

TRAVIS: It's so hard to find shelter and
protection that's not a city where you're

unwelcome in the first place.

TALIESIN: Well, this is an unwelcome world at the
moment.

LAURA: We could leave Fassbender here to help
protect everyone.

SAM: Yes, I guess if we gave him away. But we need
him.

TALIESIN: Do we need him?

LIAM: He's going to slow us down.

LAURA: How are we going to get Fassbender anywhere
with us?

SAM: Tell him to walk.

TRAVIS: Are we returning the band?

MARISHA: Yeah, Quall did want the circlet at some
point. It's not necessarily ours to give away.

LAURA: Quall's evil.

TALIESIN: Is he?

MARISHA: Selfish, maybe.

TALIESIN: We are under contract, technically.

LAURA: This is true.

MARISHA: What were you going to say, Pike?

ASHLEY: We could just leave it with Wilhand.

MARISHA: We could leave it with Wilhand,
actually.

ASHLEY: And then we could tell Quall--

LIAM: Oh, Quall, we didn't know where you were, we
couldn't find you, we left it with Wilhand.

ASHLEY: We wanted to leave it in one place, just
in case we see you again.

SAM: Is that your lying voice?

LIAM: Sorry, buddy.

PATRICK: What is the general atmosphere in town?
Are people just done?

TRAVIS: Yeah, right? I'm fucking over this shit!

MATT: Best that you can ascertain, a lot of people
are scared because they were separated from their

families. A large bulk of people left south to
Kymal, which is the nearest township to Westruun

that feasibly could take in refugees. They left
directly after the dragon attack, even before the

herd was there. When the herd came in, the maybe
ten percent, 15 percent of people that stayed

behind were then captured, some of them were
killed as they fought back, many were enslaved and

brutalized, and a number of them did escape thanks
to this group's efforts. So I'd say those that are

left behind, they're eager to see their families.
They're probably eager to leave for the time

being. Some of them do want to stay just because
they're stubborn, but the majority seems

interested in not being in a place that could be a
target for more dragon attacks, as rumors have

come back that there is more than just the black
dragon, and many of them recall the red, the

green, and the white that came with the initial
onslaught that tore through the city. Or it

would've been the green and the white.

PATRICK: Okay, yeah. So I'll wander back, and I
say, my friends here are willing to go on a

retrieval mission. I'm assuming you folks could
use some rest, and the hospitality of the town

isn't what it used to be, but I'm sure a lot of
people would be very glad to see you. Have you set

up protections? Did you hide the treasure?

LAURA: We did. We did. It's hidden in a cubby with
a little mark on it.

SAM: We'll give you instructions.

PATRICK: Sketch out something.

TALIESIN: Including a little walk around.

LAURA: Oh, yeah, the walk around is important.

TRAVIS: But there are stuff out there in the
woods. There are things.

SAM: He's a strong man.

PATRICK: And I've got, these are the more capable,
these folks can go out on their own?

MATT: A number of them can, yeah. Some of them
were there for general visual support,

carrying things forth and stewards that have taken
up arms because they have to, but you're

essentially the strongest of a group of relatively
capable individuals.

TRAVIS: I'd hate to send you into anything that
all of a sudden got a bit too nasty. I see you

wearing chain mail. If I may, what is your weapon
of choice?

PATRICK: I'm partial-- I was partial to the
warhammer.

TRAVIS: Ooh. I reach out to shake his hand. I like
your choice.

ASHLEY: Kerr, do you know how to make armor be
quiet?

(laughter)

PATRICK: That's probably the first laugh you get.
I've been there. I lived there a long time. We

could talk shop about that.

ASHLEY: I love talking shop. Let's do it.

PATRICK: I'll set up a little expedition and I'll
send people out, knowing that a lot of these folks

that are here are going to head out. They're going
to need resources, and based on what they've said,

my team can go out and get some of this treasure?

MATT: Yeah, based on the description they've said
and the sheer volume that's there, they end up

taking four carts that are capable of doing a
somewhat treacherous mountain journey with the

strong individuals you send up as well. I don't
know if you wanted to go up with them or stay

behind.

PATRICK: It sounds reasonably clear. We'll send up
a good group with spare parts, and they're all

craftsmen here, they're all farmers, they can fix
a cart if it breaks.

TRAVIS: Is there any way for them to contact you
if shit goes down while they're up there? If we

need to go in as the cavalry to the rescue?

PATRICK: Are there any--?

SAM: We can send one of the stones with them.

LAURA: (groans)

PATRICK: Anybody with cantrippy message
sending--?

MATT: Unfortunately, anybody with any modicum of
arcane practitioning capability left.

PATRICK: They beat feet long ago. Yeah.

MATT: As soon as shit hit the fan, they were like,
nope!

PATRICK: I think at this point, it's people that
are stubborn and with really low intelligence

scores are the only folks left, so the wizards
went right away.

TALIESIN: It's appropriate on occasion to leave
people to a modicum of risk. Life is risky. It's

perfectly reasonable to send people on
themselves.

LIAM: Can we steer them away from the area where
we ran into those basilisks?

LAURA: Yes, we will tell you about the basilisks.

TALIESIN: They're locals. They should know.

MATT: Well, the basilisks were far south. That was
in the Frostweald.

LAURA: Oh, never mind.

MATT: As far as you know, they were nowhere near
the Bramblewood, thankfully.

LAURA: So what should we do here, clear out the
sewers? Because that's what was said.

SAM: Wait, there's three options for these people,
and they have to decide for us. They can stay here

and live in the sewers. They can go to, what's it
called?

MATT: Kymal.

SAM: Kymal, where they're still accepting
refugees, or they can wander off into the desert.

TALIESIN: Well, there's also that group of people
wandering around. There's that group.

SAM: That's what I'm saying.

TRAVIS: Hey, guys, so remember the farmer?
Outside, and then he turned into a scarecrow?

MARISHA: Yes, we remember.

TRAVIS: I found his daughter.

SAM: Oh, where is she?

LAURA: Did you tell her?

TRAVIS: No, no, I didn't know what to do. She
looked like a deer in the headlights.

LAURA: Where is she?

TRAVIS: She was in the prison with Abjurist Noja
and Blackfoot, who's now dead. What's her name

again?

MATT: Amelia.

TRAVIS: Amelia, really sweet.

MARISHA: Did you send her towards refugees?

SAM: Is she around?

TRAVIS: I brought her out before we took the fight
to the dragon, so I think she's still in the town,

but I don't want to tell her.

LAURA: We should tell her, Grog.

TRAVIS: Yeah, I know, and maybe give her a little
coin, but, Pike, do you think maybe you could--

ASHLEY: Tell her?

TRAVIS: Yeah.

ASHLEY: Yeah.

TRAVIS: Okay.

LIAM: Do I remember where he is?

MATT: Where Reginald is? Yeah.

LIAM: I head off that way.

MATT: Okay. It's directly west of the town, so
it's pretty much south of where you guys are

currently standing, because the drop point was
northwest of the city. He is still affixed.

LIAM: I bring him back here.

TRAVIS: Make him sound real brave, you know. Paint
a good picture when you talk to her.

TALIESIN: He was real brave.

LAURA: There's only about 200 people left. Do you
know someone named Amelia?

MATT: You know of Amelia, though you-- No, you did
see her last night. You hadn't seen her in a

while. She was one of the people that was still in
the town. She was peripheral to the battle with

the dragon, but fled as soon as she saw it.
Unfortunately, dragons have that effect on people.

She was a little shamed by it, but you calmed her
down. But you do know that she's safe and

reachable.

PATRICK: Yeah, she's around.

LAURA: Where is everyone staying within the town?
Are they scattered about or are they staying in a

central location?

PATRICK: We've organized places for people to
sleep if they don't have places for themselves.

It's makeshift, but-- because it's been a couple
of days, at this point?

MATT: Yeah, it's been almost two days since the
initial encounter.

PATRICK: Right, so we've got triage camps set up.
I will say, some people are going to stay no

matter what, and they have the right to stay, and
that's their choice. I imagine some people will

come back and rebuild here, but most people, they
are ready to go. They miss their families.

LAURA: An entire city.

TALIESIN: We can build a dragon shelter. At the
very least, that is something we can do.

MARISHA: But these people are prisoners here. They
feel like they're prisoners in their own home, and

that's not a home.

TRAVIS: Then we let them make their choice.

TALIESIN: They'll do what they're going to do, but
we can give them an option if things get hairy.

LAURA: Let's make our way toward them, then.

MATT: Okay. You guys make your way towards town.
The largest concentration of survivors that you've

been keeping tabs on actually aren't that far from
Wilhand's home, in the area where most of the

temples are constructed, which is generally
considered one of the oldest and most protected

areas of Westruun. There are two inns that are
basically now ramshackle homes for sleep. There's

bedspreads across the entire floor, all the tables
and chairs have been moved out, and it's now just

a giant room where people who had their homes
destroyed come and sleep, not because it's

comfortable, but because there's comfort and
safety in numbers. People have gathered what

belongings they still had that are worth
anything or they might need for a journey. Many of

them are still gathering bits of dried food and
fruit and whatever, preparing for whatever the

next step of their travels may be. But you
probably have the bulk of the people in the town,

other than a few older, very stubborn folks that
are like, "I'm going to stay in my home!" The

folks that stayed at Mt. St. Helens, where you're
like, come on, guys, seriously?

(laughter)

PATRICK: There's always some.

MATT: There's always some. But yeah, so as you
approach and the door swings open to the first

tavern, as you introduce them too, a few of the
folks perk up. A few children who couldn't sleep

look over. Two of the kids that recognize you run
up, "Uncle Kerrek!" They run up and grab the side

of your legs. Your chain mail clanks and you pick
them up.

ASHLEY: I look around for Wilhand.

MATT: Wilhand is not amongst this group. Wilhand
probably stayed safe within his home, which kept

him safe up to this point, so far.

TRAVIS: Do we see Amelia?

MATT: Looking about, yes, you do see Amelia. She
is asleep right now, though.

SAM: Wake her up! Tell her her dad's dead!

MARISHA: Hey, hey. It's really important. I need
to tell you right now.

ASHLEY: We see her?

MATT: You see her. She's asleep. It's later in the
day from the travel, you guys went down the

mountain to even get here after you woke up in the
morning. You spent most of the day getting back to

Westruun, so you're getting pretty close to
sunset. The group has been set off for the

evening's travel toward the top of Gatshadow. She
appears to have fallen asleep early.

PATRICK: I'll start a few things, and I'll spread
the word. Everybody could really use a bit of a

party here. We don't have many resources, but I'm
betting there's enough liquor for everybody to get

good and drunk tonight.

MATT: Oh yeah.

PATRICK: That's the resource there's always an
abundance of at this point. We'll kind of put the

word out, and honestly, I don't need to organize
it. I can just say, "Dragon's dead, and they did

"it. We're going to throw them a party tonight."
And I'm just going to let that happen.

MATT: And with each chain of that word spreading,
the energy immediately lifts up within the room,

and the building adjacent, and folks that were
either resting or in a state of perpetual

anxiousness suddenly brighten up, even with the
dirt-smeared faces, you can see smiles poking out

as people begin coming into the room to see those
who slew the dragon that threatened them. People

start coming up and shaking your hands,
individuals who haven't seen you guys for years,

people that lived down the street and gave you a
passing hello in the younger days of your youth,

are now coming up to you with a look of absolute
appreciation and thanks. Just as that energy picks

up, the wine and the ale begin to go throughout
the area as stores of them beneath the taverns

that were not found by the herd, as there were
only so many members of the herd and a larger

number of actual inns and taverns throughout the
town, people start grabbing cups. Even some of the

kids start coming up with cups, and the parents
are like, "Hmm, a little." It's New Year's, you

can have a sip.

TALIESIN: It's medieval times, everybody drinks.

MATT: Without much worry at that point, everyone's
getting nice and liquored up, and happiness has

ensued. Some folks pull out some meager
instruments. There aren't a lot of extremely

practiced bards, so your ears tweak a little at
the sound of imperfect music, but there is honesty

and joy coming from it, so you choose not to lend
any sort of constructive criticism to the

performers.

(laughter)

TALIESIN: You sent the last of the decent bards
out of town. It's all on you.

LAURA: Can I hang out outside? I want to keep my
eye on the skies.

MATT: Yeah, not a worry. Go ahead and make a
perception check.

TALIESIN: I was about to say I was going to join
you. I've had my fill of party.

LIAM: Yes, I'm sure you were.

LAURA: Wait, what is that? 32.

LIAM: That's okay.

MATT: 32? All right. You look about the sky. It is
clear. The dark clouds that had loomed towards the

top of Gatshadow have since blown away. The starry
night sky now spreads infinitely above you, and

for the first time in a long time, knowing that
the immediate danger is no longer chasing you, you

take a minute to appreciate the sheer beauty of
the view that Westruun always had. This brief

moment to allow yourself to exhale helps remind
you what all this is worth, and the importance of

moments like this. You can hear the laughter
behind you within the inn. You can hear the music.

You can hear the kids chuckling and telling jokes.
People clinking glasses together. And in this tiny

little microcosm of a moment here, you let
yourself silently smile, and really know what all

of this is worth.

TALIESIN: I'm going to join--

MARISHA: About that time I reach and grab Percy's
hand before he leaves the door. Percy. Percy!

TALIESIN: What?

MARISHA: This is giving me a lot of anxiety.
There's a lot of people here.

TALIESIN: Is it about your feelings about Vax? Is
that the whole problem right now?

MARISHA: No.

TALIESIN: I really don't--

MARISHA: There's so many people calling us heroes.

TALIESIN: Yes.

MARISHA: We're not heroes.

TALIESIN: We pretty much are, actually. I hate to
tell you this.

MARISHA: No. We're not, we're terrible people.
We're terrible people. Why are they telling us

this? Oh, god. Oh, god, if I have to shake one
more townsperson's hand. Oh, god. I feel like I

was cursed. I was cursed. I don't want any of
this. I don't want any of this!

PATRICK: Do I spot that?

MATT: You do. As you guys are having this
conversation, Kerr walks over with a rosy grin on

his face.

PATRICK: Is this your first time?

MARISHA: (hyperventilating) Hi. I'm Keyleth. Do
you want to step outside?

LAURA: I come back inside.

PATRICK: Let's step outside.

MARISHA: Okay!

MATT: You guys pass Vex as she steps back into the
tavern, passing you guys.

LAURA: Pat her on the back. Drunk? Already?

MARISHA: No, not enough.

TALIESIN: Panic attack.

MATT: As you step outside with Kerr, the cold
night air comforting to you, hitting your face,

hitting your lungs. It helps the breathing slow,
and you have a moment of control over your

emotions.

MARISHA: (groan) Does the nausea always happen? Is
that always a thing?

PATRICK: Is it the people, or is it the fact that
you have finally realized how pointless it all is?

(surprised laughter)

MARISHA: Maybe it's the fact that I feel like I've
been lied to my entire god damn life, and it's all

crashing down upon me right now.

SAM: She's druish.

MARISHA: So druish. So yeah, you could say-- how
about a little bit of column A and a little bit of

column B?

PATRICK: Yeah.

MARISHA: Yeah.

PATRICK: Yeah.

MARISHA: Yeah. How did you deal with it?

PATRICK: I found other places where I could do
good things.

MARISHA: Really?

PATRICK: Yeah.

MARISHA: Like what?

PATRICK: Like, I make wagon couples. The thing
that hooks--

MARISHA: Oh. I don't know exactly what you said.

PATRICK: You have a wagon.

MARISHA: Sure.

PATRICK: And then you have a horse.

MARISHA: Right, yeah.

PATRICK: And then something needs to hook the
horse to the wagon.

MARISHA: Got you.

PATRICK: And if you have a bad one of those, it
breaks, and so people need good ones of those.

MARISHA: I don't know at all what you just told
me. I'm not going to lie. But I think I get the

message.

PATRICK: I'm guessing that you are bothered by the
fact that no matter what you do, you seem to end

up destroying more things than you fix.

MARISHA: Yes! Jeez, you're like the first person--
no one else gets it.

PATRICK: They don't get it, do they?

MARISHA: No, they don't.

PATRICK: No.

MARISHA: Is that it? That's it? We will destroy
everything we touch? We will cause more harm than

good? We will carve a path of destruction and make
it seem like we're doing good, and then people

will worship us because they think we're heroes,
when in the back of my head I'm thinking about all

the death that has come by our hands?

PATRICK: That can be a lot of it. I'm not going to
lie to you about that.

MARISHA: Yeah, you know, Kerr, you're not really
helping make me feel better about this. I'm not

going to lie.

PATRICK: Well I imagine that your friends will
tell you a lot of things that would make you feel

real good. But I'm not one for short term
solutions. I think that you're right. I think that

you've obviously put a lot of thought into this.

MARISHA: So much thought. I swear I've gotten
nosebleeds. Keep going. That's beside the point.

PATRICK: And I've known people like you before.
People who are very sensitive to this sort of

thing. I have been the sort of person you are. And
it's not simple. Your friend who lived here for a

while, the big one, what's his name?

MARISHA: Grog. Yeah.

PATRICK: Right. He doesn't have this. He has the
opposite of this. It's all good for him, right?

And you're kind of jealous, aren't you?

MARISHA: I so badly wish I could have what he
has.

PATRICK: But somebody has to look at the big
picture. And sometimes that's us, and usually it's

unpleasant. But somebody needs to do it.

MARISHA: So you're saying this is my curse? This
is my duty?

PATRICK: I'm saying that-- (long pause). I'm
saying that if you aren't careful, it will rip you

apart from the inside, but that's not a long-term
solution. That's just another piece of

destruction. You need to find a way to live with
the fact that you do what you can, because that's

what you can control. And sometimes bad things
happen anyway, and so you just have to decide

where you're going to pick your hill. You find
your hill. Everybody gets one hill, and you plant

your flag and you can die on that one. But you
have to be careful, because you only get one. If

you're really unlucky, you get more than one.

MARISHA: And what if the ultimate problem is that
I feel like I've had zero control from the start,

since birth? I didn't want any of this. I didn't
want my abilities. I didn't know I was special

until now. And I so desperately just want to be
normal. I want to go back to being ignorance and bliss.

PATRICK: Then I do have a momentary, short-term
solution for you.

MARISHA: Shoot.

PATRICK: It's actually there, and I will get you
another one.

(laughter)

PATRICK: It will help a little bit for now. It
will smooth out some of the rough edges long

enough for us to talk for a while. Because I've
been down this road. Okay? The thing is, you're

not wrong, and you're not crazy, but it's not
hopeless, either.

MARISHA: Okay. Thank you.

PATRICK: I'll do maybe one of these. It feels like
she wants one of these.

MARISHA: Yeah, yeah.

PATRICK: I can read that.

MARISHA: I give in. Yeah. Yeah. You know, Kerr.

PATRICK: Yes?

MARISHA: Even surrounded--

SAM: He stabbed you in the back.

(laughter)

LIAM: The Chroma Conclave sends its regards!

(laughter)

MARISHA: So Game of Thrones.

MATT: As he brings you into a warm hug, and at
first, there is the resistance because this is a

person you don't know.

MARISHA: Yeah, and my headdress is a little
wonky.

MATT: A little wonky due to the drink, due to not
concentrating. However, as much as you travel with

your friends, this stranger has seemingly come to
you with more wisdom and understanding of your

continuous predicaments than anybody has in a long
time, if at all, and you give into the hug and

realize just how nice it is to have somebody
understand.

MARISHA: I was pretty much going to say that in
character, but yeah, that's pretty much what I feel.

MATT: Sorry.

MARISHA: No, no, that's-- I wasn't-- Yeah. Yeah. I
tell Kern--

SAM: Kern?

MARISHA: Car. Kerr.

MATT: Somewhere in that neighborhood.

MARISHA: Care Bear. I tell Kerr, even surrounded
by friends, I often feel so alone. Thank you for

being a friend, even though we just met.

PATRICK: I get that.

MATT: He brings you in. Gets you another drink.

PATRICK: Actually, I'll bring another drink out to
her.

MATT: Oh, perfect. All right.

MARISHA: It's crowded inside.

TALIESIN: I stumble outside for a bit as well at
this point.

SAM: Meanwhile, I'm telling my table a story about
how I won a cannonball contest last night.

MATT: They are enraptured.

SAM: It was in a dragon's lair! I was amazing.

(laughter)

LAURA: Is Amelia awake at this point?

MATT: Amelia has woken up due to the sound and
noise, and she's wandering about with a drink in

her hand now.

ASHLEY: All right. We'll walk over to her.

TRAVIS: I'll stay with you, but just behind you.

LAURA: Amelia?

MATT: "Hi, yes! Thank you again for releasing me
from the terrible stocks. I really appreciate

"that. Thank you for everything you've done for
Westruun."

LAURA: Well, thank you for everything you've done.
I've heard amazing things about you and your

family.

MATT: "We're meager folk. We come from very simple
roots. I--" And she takes a big, long sip of her

flagon, sets it down on the table and wipes her
mouth. "Truth be told, I-- as soon as I saw that

"dragon, I ran straight away. I didn't-- You guys
are the heroes. I didn't do anything."

LAURA: I sit down next to her.

ASHLEY: I sit down next to her, too. (whispers)
Should we just wait till the morning?

LAURA: We have to do it right now. So. We knew--
your father is Reginald.

MATT: "Yes. Have you seen him?"

LAURA: Yes. He-- I take her hands. One of the
bravest men I've ever had the honor of meeting.

MATT: There's recognition in her eyes. Her head
pulls back a bit. Her expression goes stoic as she

sinks in the wordless reality that you've just
bestowed upon her.

LAURA: I know this can be-- I know how hard this
is to hear. But none of this would have happened,

none of this celebration would be possible without
him. He sacrificed himself, so that all of us

could live, and he spoke your name in the end. He
wanted nothing more than for you to be taken care of.

MATT: (long pause) "That sounds like Dad." Wipes
her eyes.

LAURA: Would you like to pray, Pike?

ASHLEY: I don't know if you're a woman of faith,
but--

MATT: "What faith do you belong to?"

ASHLEY: I follow Sarenrae.

MATT: "Then, for the night, as do I." She reaches
over and takes her flagon, and the tears are

streaming down her face in spite of her smile, and
she looks to you both, and looks to you. "To

"Reginald. To Dad."

TRAVIS: To Reggie.

ASHLEY: To Reggie.

MATT: And she starts weeping into her hands.

TRAVIS: Amelia. You should also know, your father
was a man of a few tricks. He told us that he had

been saving this up for whenever you were old
enough, but I think you should have it now. I hand

her 400 gold pieces.

MATT: She looks up for a moment. "How? How did--
they took everything."

LAURA: He hid it.

MATT: "This could help a lot of us. Okay."

TRAVIS: I think he knew you would do well with
it.

LAURA: Dear, there's more coming to the town. You
take care of yourself.

MATT: (deep breath) "We'll take care of each
other. I think that's what he'd want."

TRAVIS: Aye.

MATT: She grabs her flagon again and takes a big
old sip, sets it down. Her eyes are dried a little

bit. She wipes the last away.

TRAVIS: I pour my flagon into hers.

MATT: She laughs and drinks of it again.
Definitely embraced the idea that she's going to

get really drunk tonight. She begins joining in,
singing with the music. And the rest of the party

picks up as the celebration once again fills the
air. The rest of the folks gathering around.

(birds tweeting) Don't know why there were birds
in that track.

(laughter)

ASHLEY: Is it morning?

MATT: There will be a lot of partying through the
night, so probably it's an eventuality. However,

we will take this moment to take a quick break to
the restroom. We will return here for the next bit

of this adventure, so we'll be right back here in
a few minutes, guys. Stick around.

(cheering)

[break]

MATT: Welcome back. So as you return here, bellies
full, the evening of drinks, rabble-rousing, and

stress release through conversation and laughter
carries through until the morning light comes.

Everyone wakes up extremely hungover, but in a way
that is well-earned and still worthy of the

evening that transpired before it. You all come to
consciousness, about midday at this time now.

LAURA: Whoa.

MATT: You all slept in after what happened.

LIAM: I actually spent the night in a field with
Reginald.

SAM: Ew.

MATT: You did.

LIAM: That's your brain, man. I sat next to his
body, waiting for people to come back, they never

did. I piled some of Keyleth's flowers on his
chest, and then I fell asleep, in the field, six

feet away from him. Party!

MARISHA: Did you think we were going to--

LIAM: Yeah, well.

MARISHA: Never mind.

LIAM: I don't know.

LAURA: Oh. Shit.

LIAM: I don't know what I thought, but that's what
I did.

LAURA: Why didn't you check up on the earring,
dude?

LIAM: I wanted some space.

MATT: So as you all come around to the breakfast
morning, food is being cooked up within the

kitchen by some of the various villagers that have
taken up to help out with what they can in the area.

You start realizing that Vax is nowhere
to be found and as this conversation begins to

progress, he eventually finds you guys and waltzes
into the groaning room of semi-conscious Westruun

denizens.

LAURA: (yawns) Where were you?

LIAM: Getting a good night's sleep on a field of
grass. How are you doing?

MARISHA: We had a bender.

LIAM: You need some water?

MARISHA: Yeah.

LIAM: Can you make some?

LAURA: In that endless jug? Or does it only
make beer and mayonnaise?

MARISHA: Say water to the endless jug.

TRAVIS: Yeah, it makes water.

SAM: It seems like a waste.

TRAVIS: Give me water like the ocean!

SAM: Oh, no, no, no!

TALIESIN: No!

MATT: The jug is now filled with water to the
top.

TRAVIS: Yeah, look! Water.

LAURA: Is it saltwater?

MARISHA: I dip my finger in and take a taste.

MATT: It is saltwater.

LAURA: (groans) Damn it, Grog.

TRAVIS: Did I do it wrong?

SAM: You did it wrong.

TALIESIN: You should try that, though. See if you
like it.

TRAVIS: Is there anybody else sleeping in the
room?

MATT: There are a few folks that are probably still sleeping
off the drinking, but I'd say the majority of the

folks have woken up in various states of
grogginess.

TRAVIS: (whispers) Hey, should we wake up the rest
of the people with this?

SAM: The people who've lost their city? You're going
to prank them?

TRAVIS: Well, I'm feeling a bit salty this
morning.

(laughter)

TRAVIS: I go outside and I dump it.

MARISHA: I cast a Create Water spell so we can all
have some water.

MATT: Okay.

LAURA: We should probably call everyone 
in the town to talk.

MARISHA: Yeah, we should have a big meeting, let
them decide what they want to do with the rest

of their fucking lives.

TALIESIN: What did you have to drink last night?

LAURA: Is there a bartender or somebody that's
running the inn that everyone's staying at? Or is it kind

of makeshift--

MATT: It's just kind of makeshift. However,
whoever who once ran this place is no longer

here, probably left with the first or second wave
of evacuees. Everyone here is just kind of doing

their part to keep it going.

LAURA: Can I grab someone nearby that looks like
they're up and about and actually accomplishing things?

MATT: Yeah. There's an older woman who did not
drink but just was around last evening who's done most of

the cleaning-- and even though there's no reason to
clean, she's still just kind of going through the

motions of wiping down the counters and putting things
away properly.

LAURA: Dear heart, um--

MATT: "Yes?"

LAURA: Could you spread the word that there's
going to be a town meeting?

MATT: "A town meeting? What for?"

LAURA: So we can talk about how to keep everyone
safe, dear.

MATT: "All right."

LAURA: Yes. As soon as possible, can everyone meet
here?

SAM: No, the central--

LAURA: In the center of town.

SAM: Where we killed Kevdak.

LAURA: Where the goliaths, where the barbarians--
sorry, Grog-- where all the mean people were.

MATT: "All right, I'll get the word out." And she
puts away a couple of towels and grabs a couple of

people near her, and the three of them saunter out
into the main walkway.

SAM: Also, I don't know if he remembers, but
sometime in our revelry last night, I asked Kerr

if he could-- I gave him a sheath, just a sheath
of a sword-- and I asked him if he could make just

a little-- there's some metal components to
it-- I was asking him if he could just make a

little secret compartment on it. Like a place that
you could hide a little vial or a little powder or

a little note or something, just in the side of
the sheath.

PATRICK: What are the odds that I would make a
total hash of that?

(laughter)

PATRICK: I'm imagining I don't do that much
delicate work.

MATT: No. But also, how much did you drink last
night?

PATRICK: Oh, right! Yeah, I can totally do that.

MATT: So, how much-- how drunk were you?

PATRICK: You know, I probably was pretty modest.
I probably drank with her, to be social. And then

I probably just kind of prowled and made sure
nothing got out of hand and everyone was okay.

Yeah, I probably-- I'll take a shot at it. How
attached to this sheath are you?

TALIESIN: (snickers)

SAM: Yes. Extremely.

PATRICK: Extremely.

(laughter)

PATRICK: I'll see what I can do.

LIAM: Just nail a sock on the side of it, it'll be
great.

(laughter)

SAM: I don't make the best decisions.

MATT: Especially while drinking. You find your way
back to your forge, which is still functional. It

was not one of the buildings that fell on the
initial attack. You heat it up late into the

evening. It doesn't require a lot because it's
smaller work. Go ahead and make a blacksmithing

check with your proficiency bonus. Plus, with
this, it would be dexterity. Because it's very,

very minute work.

SAM: Could I have inspired him?

MATT: You could. Yes! You can very much do that.

SAM: I will give him a limerick to inspire him with.

MATT: Drunken Scanlan limerick, here we go!

SAM: Have you heard the legend of Shale? One eye,
elderly, frail? To a black dragon, she told, "You

"may be ancient, but I'm old!" And somehow lived to
tell the tale.

(cheering)

MATT: Go and take your d10 inspiration dice, if
you want to add that to the roll.

PATRICK: All right. So, just proficiency bonus--

MATT: Plus your dex bonus.

PATRICK: Yeah, my vast dex bonus. 16.

MATT: 16. That's not bad. It's not the finest
craftsmanship in the world, and what once was a

very, very beautifully detailed sheath to a
weapon now has a somewhat hammered, dented

element to it that you probably want to hide with
a silk or something. It's an imperfection in what

was a previously a perfect element, but it is
functional. It is a small compartment that

actually has a tiny metal slot that can be moved
closed or open with your thumb.

SAM: Great!

MATT: It's functional. It's not pretty, but it is
functional.

PATRICK: We focus on function here.

SAM: I understand. Thank you for your nimble
fingers. Next time, I'll ask Percy to do it.

(laughter)

TALIESIN: And it will explode.

MARISHA: I make a tonic out of the glissfoil
that I had in my pouch from the garden back in

Emon. Pass it out, a little hangover tonic.

MATT: It does help, actually.

LAURA: All of us?

MARISHA: Yeah.

LAURA: Sweet!

MARISHA: Just a little crushed herbs and water,
like a tea.

TRAVIS: A little hair of the dog, huh?

LAURA: Thanks, Kiki!

TRAVIS: Are we day drinking?

SAM: Also, before we go to the meeting, I haven't
used it in a while but I would like to use my

Scrying Potion to-- not potion! The scry that I
left at our Greyskull Keep so long ago, to kind

of see what's going on at Greyskull.

TALIESIN: Your scry pie?

SAM: Yeah.

MATT: Glancing at it this moment now, and it's about
midday, you concentrate on what you left

behind.

SAM: Yep. We all know what it was.

MATT: You have a brief view, a small windowed view
of the kitchen before you. It seems to be

currently empty.

SAM: But still standing?

MATT: But still standing. You do notice, in the
sink there are some fresh dishes.

SAM: Oh! Okay.

TALIESIN: Squatters.

MARISHA: It's fucking squatters.

SAM: Or maybe our staff.

TALIESIN: Unpaid now, so now they're squatters.

SAM: Okay.

MATT: (laughs) It's an important distinction.

TRAVIS: Can you talk through your poop?

SAM: No, no. Poo doesn't work that way, Travis.
It's a one-way street.

TRAVIS: The finer points are lost on me.

ASHLEY: You left it in the kitchen?

SAM: I left it in a jar in the kitchen and I told
the people not to open it.

MARISHA: We only got a C on our general
inspection rating.

(laughter)

MATT: There's a parchment that's just nailed to
the outside of the keep. At least it's good

calligraphy. All right, so unless you have
anything else to prepare in this time, most of the

townsfolk are beginning to converge towards the
square in the central-southern region of Westruun

where you had the showdown battle with Kevdak
outside of the Margrave's home. The now deceased

Margrave. Everyone seems to have gathered together
and there is an air of tension. As you approach,

as folks are muttering to themselves, then it
gets quiet as you all step into the central area.

There is still-- it's been pulled over, it was
partially damaged before, but there is a

large elevated platform that was used for
speeches or celebration elements that has been,

for the time being, fixed to allow you guys to
stand up if you wish to address the rest of the folks.

LAURA: Who wants to talk? Scanlan? You're so
charismatic.

TALIESIN: What are we going to say?

SAM: I'm still reading my book. But, yes, we're
just going to ask them a question.

LAURA: I think we need to ask them where they want
to go.

TALIESIN: And if they ask what we think?

SAM: We don't think anything. We'll support their
decision, right?

TALIESIN: I think something.

SAM: What do you think?

MARISHA: I guess I could talk to them?

TALIESIN: I would like to build-- The death of a city
is such a blasphemy. It is the murder of the dead. And

I'm horrified.

MARISHA: Percy, a city is nothing without living
people in it. A city is made up of the people that

live inside of it.

TALIESIN: It is.

MARISHA: We have to protect them first.

LIAM: Percival's suggesting letting them live here,
building something for them underground--

MARISHA: Which we can facilitate?

LIAM: Rather than running.

SAM: We have a lot of other things to do-- let's
talk to them.

TRAVIS: How about Pike talks to them?

ASHLEY: Me?!

TRAVIS: Yeah! You were born here.

LAURA: This is true! Pike? They know you.

ASHLEY: (sighs) Well, I'm not very charismatic.

SAM: I'll be with you.

TRAVIS: But you're genuine.

ASHLEY: Do you want to help me?

LIAM: Exactly. You are genuine.

ASHLEY: So we're telling them-- asking them if
they want to stay. And if they do stay, that we

could built them shelter.

LAURA: Help them take shelter in the sewers. If
there's danger.

TRAVIS: The dragon's dead. We don't know if
another one will come.

LAURA: Can we ask before we go up on the stage if
Kerr, if you're willing to help, should they want

that? Is that something you could help us with?

PATRICK: I would be delighted to help facilitate
things between you and the community. I know a

lot of people that have left will return. I don't
doubt that for a second. But right now, everyone

is scattered and scared. And a lot of families
have been separated. A lot of people who would

love to return here and rebuild the city, they
don't know where their loved ones are. And I know

that is preying on their minds more than their own
safety, in some cases. I know most people are

looking to leave and come back eventually. And
depending on the resources, like what you've

generously offered from the caves-- that will
keep them from being refugees. They can continue

to be a community in this other town, and then
return, well-organized and with resources to build

it. (sighs) I don't feel they're ready to do it
here and now, though. I don't feel they're excited

about that. I know that so many of them have
people from their lives they're just missing.

TRAVIS: And by the way, it's going to be a hot
second before the carts come back from the cave, right?

PATRICK: Yeah. Probably--

MATT: Another day or two before they arrive, yeah.

MARISHA: Can we even say that these people are in--

ASHLEY: So are you thinking they won't want to
stay, then?

PATRICK: I know from speaking to a lot of people
over the last couple of days, and even speaking to

them last night, they're relieved that the dragon
is gone. But they're worried about more in the

future. But primarily, they're looking to be safe
now, and reunite with their friends and family,

and most of those people are in--?

MATT: Kymal.

PATRICK: Kymal.

LIAM: I think we give them a choice. But I
think, Pike, I think it's a good idea. I think you

present the idea of staying and getting word to
the people in Kymal that some of their loved ones

are still here, still living. The dragon is dead.
Summon them back to rebuild.

LAURA: How far away is Kymal?

SAM: Two days' travel.

TRAVIS: Wow. Fucking Shorthalt!

ASHLEY: How do you know?

LAURA: Was that in your book?

SAM: My girl is there.

LAURA: Your daughter's in Kymal?

SAM: Yes. I'll be going there anyway.

TRAVIS: Haylie? Maylie?

SAM: Kaylie.

MARISHA: And Kymal hasn't been hit yet?

TALIESIN: Not yet.

LIAM: Is Kymal bigger or smaller than Westruun?

MATT: It's smaller than Westruun.

LAURA: Well--

LIAM: They're better off in Westruun.

MARISHA: I'm afraid with each refugee we add to
another city, we're only making it a larger

target.

TALIESIN: Which is why-- (sighs) There is no safe
harbor right now.

MARISHA: And there's no point in rebuilding--

TALIESIN: There is.

MARISHA: Why?

TALIESIN: Because this is civilization. This is--

MARISHA: There's no point in rebuilding right now
when there's still three other dragons who will

only come and go, 'Stomp, stomp, stomp! Dead!'

TRAVIS: They might.

TALIESIN: They might.

MARISHA: They. Will.

TALIESIN: No, they might. We don't know they
will.

PATRICK: If you were a dragon, what would you do?

TALIESIN: I would hit the city where all the refugees
are going. Because it would hurt more. I would not

hit the city that's going to take 200 years to be a
shadow of its former self.

MARISHA: Yes, but you're also not a vain dragon
who just had one of its allies taken out in this

very city. These dragons are going to have a huge
vendetta against Westruun now.

TALIESIN: I may not have lost an ally, but I am a
vain dragon.

TRAVIS: Maybe they will, maybe they won't. How
about for those who want to stay, we help build

some fortifications. For those who want to leave,
we'll protect them on their way there.

LIAM: We're at wartime. The people can live
underground. For now.

TALIESIN: Building will give them something to do.
And if the dragon comes back, they will be safe

underground. And if the dragon doesn't, we
have saved thousands of years of inspiration

and life. It's-- you can't just abandon something
like this! There's too much here.

LIAM: Otherwise, what else are we fighting for?

TALIESIN: Otherwise, it becomes our friend Pike
from Nowhere.

TRAVIS: That would be bad.

ASHLEY: That would be bad.

LAURA: That would be terrible.

TRAVIS: Scanlan, get their attention.

SAM: Get their attention? All right.

LAURA: And Pike, do you want to step up there?

ASHLEY: Okay. I'll go, I'll go.

SAM: I blow my horn to call the meeting to
attention.

MATT: (horn noise) Everyone gets really quiet. The
two of you step up onto the platform--

ASHLEY: (airhorn noises)

MATT: (laughs) It gets quiet. Everyone gets quiet.
You hear one voice in the back go, "That's my

"Pike!" As you immediately look over, you see at
the far end is Wilhand, leaping up, trying to get

a view between the crowd. Everyone's quiet,
looking at the two of you, now on top of this

platform. Which puts you just over head
height from the rest of the folks, by the way.

ASHLEY: (stuttering) Hello, everybody from the
town.

SAM: I'm doing sign-language interpretation.

(laughter)

ASHLEY: I know I'm not one usually to speak up, but
because I know so many of you and some of you are

family-- (blows kiss) Um, we-- I'm sure you guys
have heard because of the party and festivities

from last night, the dragon has been killed.

MATT: There's a cheer (crowd cheers), clapping--

ASHLEY: And we know that some of you have stayed
because if anything else, this is your home.

MATT: Some murmuring.

ASHLEY: And some of your family has left for
Kymal?

SAM: Kymal.

ASHLEY: Kymal. But we wanted to give you all an
option. And for those of you that do want to stay,

we would like to provide you with an underground
protection of sorts.

MATT: (whispering and murmuring) Whispers
through the crowds.

SAM: As we speak, upwards of 40,000 gold are being
delivered by your finest men. This, with our help, can

help construct a sturdy underground layer that
will shelter you if the dragon were to come back. It

will take days, possibly weeks to construct this.
But if you wanted to stay, this would be your best

bet. However, we are not forcing you to do
anything. If you would like to go with the fellow

refugees to Kymal, or find your fellow citizens
scattered about, roving in the lowlands, that

would be fine too. We need to come to an agreement
today, so that we can help you do what you want.

MATT: One gentleman takes the stage next to you
guys, man in his younger 20s, kind of soot

smeared on his cheeks. Looks like he's a little
weathered by the experience. Even though he looks

young and thin, there is a general hardness to his
face from recent experiences. He kind of raises

up, looking at the both of you, below him:

"I, for one, miss my family and have no home to go
back to. And the the homes that are empty in this

"town right now are empty because those who lived
there are now dead. There are ghosts here I

"wish not to see every morning when I wake up. If
I'm going to live here, I want to return with

"those that are important to me and build a new
home, over the old. Now is not my time to stay.

"Especially if more of those things are coming back.
If anyone wishes to come with me to Kymal, please,

"stand with me."

And he steps off the stage and make his way to
the right side of the stage. Everyone in the crowd

looks to each other, and few folks begin filtering
off and gathering around him. I'd say about a

third to half of the crowd begins to shift over as
another person steps up right next to you

guys, actually. This is a woman in her late 40s or
so. She's wearing relatively nice clothing

that's been kind of torn apart through constant
use and not really having an option to change into.

She looks like she came from money, but has
definitely been pulled down to the same level as

the rest of the folks here; they're living in
destitution out of necessity. Her hair's

trying to be pulled up into a bun, but a lot of it
is kind of falling around her face, and she's keeping

this kind of poor facade of her previous life. And
she stands up:

"I myself, my family's history is here in this town and
I would be remiss if I didn't express my

"hesitation in leaving that behind, for the next
roving horde of barbarians to rush in and take

"from us while we're away. Especially if this gold
is to be retrieved, how do we know how much of that

"is to be distributed? How much was my family's
versus yours? If we're to divide ourselves at this

"point, we're leaving ourselves open to inner
conflict, lest we have a very clear idea where

"these funds are going. And I, for one, want to
make sure I have a home when my family returns. So

"I'm not leaving. I'm not going to come back here
months down the line and find four layabouts

"living in that home, made a complete mess of our
things, and telling us it's now theirs. Those who

"wish to stay, stand with me." (harrumphs) And she
walks offstage, to the side--

TALIESIN: I'm going to get up on stage.

SAM: (whispers) You don't live here.

TALIESIN: The terrible woman may have a point.

(laughter)

MATT: "Thank you. What?"

TALIESIN: (sighs) Many of you are going to leave,
and that's fair. And that's right, you're free to

do so. I wish any of us could promise you safety
once you leave this city. But there is no safety

anywhere. The dragons fly freely. They may come
back and wreak their vengeance upon the rest of

Westruun once again. They may not. They may find
new, fresh targets. We don't know. (long sigh) We

will build an underground haven in case of attack,
free of charge. We will make a place that is open

to all. Since there seems to be some dispute about
the finances, we will create a trust that will be

used to help those who stay and help rebuild. It
will be managed and it will be fair. And it will not

go to titles. If you're properly titled, you'll
have money elsewhere, and you'll figure it out.

(laughter)

MATT: You hear, "Hmph!"

TALIESIN: New money.

(laughter)

SAM: Old magic!

TALIESIN: Old magic, new money from ivory towers.
I would urge you to stay. I would urge you to

leave, collect your people and return. I would
urge for one city not to be wiped from the map.

And anything we can do to make this at least
livable while it is rebuilt, we will do our best

to help. (sighs) It is such a victory for them if
Westruun falls. And I sit back down.

MATT: Make a persuasion check with advantage.

TALIESIN: 22.

MATT: There is a silence in the crowd and people
have stopped shuffling from side to side. Some of

the folks on the side of the gentleman began to
shift back and people tend to stand up. And even the

gentleman who was standing at the opposite side kind of
ponders for a moment: "Well, regardless of what

"happens, we have to get word out. We have to let
our loved ones know what has happened, and that

"it's safe to come back. If you indeed can help us
set this about, I'm confident we can keep out

"of sight. At least, hopefully."

MARISHA: I stand up on the podium. Um, sorry.
While the terrible man and the terrible woman both

absolutely have a point--

SAM: (whispers) He's not that bad.

TALIESIN: (whispers) I'm that bad.

MARISHA: I look at the man who's off to side. I
agree with you that finding your loved ones is

most important. I believe we can actually maybe
do a little bit of both here and solve both problems.

Me, alongside with the help of other magic
users, can help quickly build an underground

bunker. And I would be willing to help escort any
party to Kymal in order to help find your people.

Whereas I do agree, to an extent, with Percy that we
should not let Westruun fall to this, this city is

only as great as its people.

LAURA: Woo! Good leadership!

(laughter)

SAM: That's definitely Vex.

MATT: Some claps and a few folks kind of agree and
nod their heads. The gentleman that you've been

talking to kind of looks at you and he's very
intently engaged and nodding in agreement.

MARISHA: Uh. To Westrunn! Huzzah!?

LAURA: Huzzah!

TALIESIN: The awkward woman makes a fine point!

MATT: And the people eventually raise their arms,
"To Westruun!" "To Westruun!"

(laughter)

MATT: The clapping comes together.

TRAVIS: Yeah, football rules!

TALIESIN: Pike, do you remember that spell
you cast on Greyskull Keep when it got hit by

the dragon? The thing you did--

LAURA: That was Divine Intervention, I thought.

TALIESIN: Was that Divine--?

MATT: No, she summoned a Planar Ally. That one
was--

ASHLEY: To help rebuild?

TALIESIN: That was expensive, wasn't it?

ASHLEY: No.

MATT: That spell was expensive.

ASHLEY: Yes!

LAURA: It was, like, a thousand gold?

MATT: That was Planar Ally--

ASHLEY: What do you want to rebuild? I mean,
underground--

MATT: Depends on how long you want it to stay. So
a task measured in hours requires a thousand gold

per hour.

TALIESIN: No, no, no.

MATT: A task measured in days requires 10,000 gold
per day--

LAURA: (in alarm) No, no, no!

MATT: Mind you, these entities can do some crazy
stuff.

SAM: Yeah. And we have 40,000 more gold coming.
That's four days of entities--

LAURA: But I don't want to use up all the--
we can do that after things are--

SAM: What else are we going to spend the money
on?

ASHLEY: I can try Divine Intervention again so--

MARISHA: We don't want to rebuild a city that's
going to be stomped by dragons in another three

months!

ASHLEY: No, just the bunker, right?

LAURA: Just the bunker--

ASHLEY: Not the city.

LAURA: No.

ASHLEY: Keyleth can make the bunker.

LAURA: It's fine.

SAM: For hundreds and hundreds of people?

TALIESIN: Yes.

MARISHA: Honestly, if we take a couple days, I
can make a pretty extensive--

TALIESIN: We're going to use a previously existing
sewer system, and we're just going to reinforce it

with pillars and then block off any of the sewage
and re-route it, since it doesn't have to handle

the load that it used to.

ASHLEY: We're going to build a vault?

TALIESIN: We're going to build a vault.

PATRICK: While they're chatting, I'll step forward
and I'll say: we all have a lot to think about.

Talk with your friends and neighbors and come to
know your own minds. This is a decision that has

to be made soon, but not on the spur of the
moment. Thank you for coming.

MATT: One man in the front, an old friend of
yours, his name is Joseph, puts his hand up,

"Kerrek! Of which mind are you? Are you staying or
are you going? Are you going to escort, go along

"as an escort with this woman, or are you staying
to protect us? Where you walk, I walk."

PATRICK: I am going to do what would be best for
the town as a whole. I am not sure-- to a certain

extent, I'll be led what is needed by the town.
If--

MATT: "What we need is a decision."

SAM: If I may, If I may, I'm so sorry, I know
everyone's talking here. A city is not just a

collection of houses and streets. It is a person
of itself. And we can't go dividing it right now.

Everyone should stay here. Everyone should be a
unit, a cohesive unit. And we: me, Keyleth, and

one of your own, Pike, will definitely travel to
Kymal to spread the word, if you give us a list of

your ancestors, family members, friends, we can
get word to all of them very quickly.

MATT: Make a persuasion check.

SAM: 28.

MATT: Everyone in the crowd seems to nod, and the
gentleman kind of nods his head to you, "All right."

(laughter)

TALIESIN: You're a monster.

PATRICK: Since you haven't been as present in the
community for a while, if I am sure that things

are adequately defended here, I might go myself to
ensure the proper apportionment of funds and to

talk to those of our townsfolk who have already
left, and perhaps organize them a little more

effectively so that they can return.

MATT: There's a few nods of agreement that spread
through the crowd, and actually, the folks on the

left side, with the woman that seemed to building
tension and arguing amongst themselves over the

ideas of that, seem to quiet a bit at you taking up
that position. You guys notice this, too; there's

a general respect for Kerrek that other folks
don't seem to carry in this community. Everyone

nods in agreement. "Well, I have no objections!"
"Neither do I." The woman on the other side.

(huffs) "Well, have no other choice, do we?"
Everyone nods, and they look up to the rest of

you. Look to you. "Then let's begin building."

LAURA: Bunker it is.

LIAM: As all that starts to wind down, I ask my
sister to point me towards Reginald's daughter.

LAURA: Do you see her?

LIAM: The one with the nice hair?

LAURA: Yeah, that one. And the giant bag of gold.

LIAM: I seek her out in the crowd.

MATT: She's still looking up, kind of by herself
in the crowd, clapping off to the side as you

approach.

SAM: I'm going to hang near him.

LIAM: Excuse me, young miss.

MATT: "Yes? Hi."

LIAM: I'm sorry. We haven't spoken, but you spoke
to my friends. You spoke to my sister. My sister

looks very much--

MATT: "I can see the similarity, yes."

LIAM: I know the news they delivered to you. I am
so sorry for your loss. Your father was very brave

at the end. Impressively so, and I want you to
know that. I've also recovered his body, and I

thought to add him to the pyres that this city did
outside the city, but I thought maybe you had a

family plot or somewhere you'd prefer him to be
laid to rest. I'll gladly take him there for you,

or take him with you. Whatever you prefer.

MATT: "I'll come with you. I'd like to see him one
last time. We have no family plot. We were meager

"folk. But he spent most of his life working in
that field. I think it's only fitting that's where

"he spends the rest of his days. Show me." And as
you guys begin the building process, she follows

you out to the field where she is shown the body
of Reginald, and she takes a moment of quiet with

him, and cradles his body. But there's a smile on
her face, and she says thank you for letting her

say goodbye face to face. With your help, you both
bring the body back to the farmhouse where you had

first met, and you spend the rest of the day
interring his body within the hillside that is

buttressed against the actual farmland that he
tilled.

LIAM: To lose a parent before their time is no
easy thing. I'm very sorry for you.

MATT: "It's all right. He did good."

LIAM: That he did.

MATT: "Let's go ahead and make sure the rest of
these folk have more to look forward to, shall we?"

She looks at you for a second, and you can
see she takes a general scope of your expression

and your emotional state, and even for a young
girl, she has a stronger insight than you

expected, and she puts her arm out and touches
your shoulder and says, "You carry too much

"sadness with you. You've done a lot of good. Let
yourself-- Let yourself understand and accept the

"fact that you've done a lot of good." And she
starts walking back towards the town.

LIAM: I linger for a bit.

MATT: All right. Now. You guys begin the process
of building this subterranean bunker. You take the

first day, scanning through as a group, clearing
out whatever creatures lurk beneath the city.

Nothing of severe threat lies down there to your
power level, and you know, what once was a threat to you

guys long ago, within the period of a day, you've
cleared out a very, very sizable portion of the

sewer system. And because it's been empty for
quite a while, it's also not in a very terrible

state either. I mean, it still needs to be
cleaned, but that's also the specialty of those

who can control water and air, let alone
reinforcing the stonework that keeps the walls

themselves sturdy, strong, able to support any
heavy weight on the surface.

Within the next couple days, you guys continue the
reinforcing process. People begin actually moving

their supplies down underground and begin taking
bits of furniture and elements that would at least

make life down there more comfortable, or at
least, a ghost image of some of the life they

lived above. Because when you're down there, the
comforts are what keep you going. But the people

seem, as more and more of it comes together, folks
genuinely begin to get a little excited at the

idea of having a safe place to live for a while.
And you feel like this is doing some good for

these folks at the very least. Whenever you guys
would like to take your journey--

TALIESIN: I would like to do a couple things just
to the room before we do anything other than this

to our houses.

MATT: Certainly.

TALIESIN: I would like on one wall to carve the
names of every survivor who stayed in the city.

And on the other wall start--

SAM: In Draconian.

TALIESIN: In Draconian.

(laughter)

TALIESIN: Terrible person. And on the other wall,
start carving in the story of--

MARISHA: Those we've lost? That's not what you
were going to say.

TALIESIN: What we've done to save the city, and
where the story, and where the city came from, and

what has happened, and make a place where other
people, they can start carving in also the history

and everything they need to say about the city,
just one of the giant walls, I just want to start

filling in with stories of the city.

MATT: Okay, and this catches your attention too,
because as pragmatic an individual as Percy is,

this is a strangely artistic endeavor of his
point, at least the intent behind it.

TALIESIN: You disagree with my opinions.

MARISHA: I don't really agree with immortalizing
ourselves in stone--

TALIESIN: It's not about us.

MARISHA: --way before we're even dead--

LAURA: It's not us, Keyleth. It's the history of
the town. Perk up, you're driving me crazy.

(laughter)

TALIESIN: How long do you live?

MARISHA: If I complete my journey, it could be
upward of a thousand years or more.

TALIESIN: How long do you think I live?

MARISHA: Less than a hundred? If you're lucky.

TALIESIN: No.

MARISHA: How long?

TALIESIN: (sighs) I am Percival Fredrickstein Von
Musel Klossowski de Rolo III.

MARISHA: No kidding.

TALIESIN: My ancestry dates back thousands of
years and will continue for thousands more, unless

Whitestone falls. I live as long as Whitestone
lives. This place is the human soul. This is what

we have built with our tiny moments. To lose a
place like this, we don't feel it immediately, but

it would ruin everyone in small ways.

MARISHA: Not all of us are lucky enough to have a
lineage in a name.

TALIESIN: Not all of us are lucky enough to have a
lineage in a lifespan.

MARISHA: Not many of us are lucky enough to have a
lineage at all.

TALIESIN: Which is why we save everyone we can.

MARISHA: I guess that is one thing we can both
agree on.

TALIESIN: This is good we're doing here. This is
great good. And it's not about idolizing

ourselves; it's about a very long story, which we
are, even you, a tiny part of.

MATT: At this moment, you look down and notice
that, while you guys were having this talk, a

small child has walked up to the wall and where
Percy has stopped the carving, the child has

picked up a piece of wayward chalk that was on the
ground and has begun to draw little stick figures

on the wall where you stopped. And in a little bit
of the quiet, he stops and looks up over his

shoulder at the two of you and smiles, and then
just goes back to writing on the wall.

TALIESIN: He'll outlive you, right there.

MARISHA: Yeah, no, you're probably right. Look at
him. I guess this little guy is like the moment

encapsulated. Hey, bud.

LIAM: (kid voice) That's a octopus!

LAURA: (kid voice) That's a shark. This is a
flower.

ASHLEY: (kid voice) This a bear!

TALIESIN: I give Keyleth a little hug.

SAM: Pikey-pants. Do you want to have gone to
Kymal? Or do you want to have stayed and helped?

ASHLEY: Didn't you volunteer me to help?

SAM: I volunteered you to come with me to Kymal.

ASHLEY: I'll go with you to Kymal.

TRAVIS: I'll come along to chaperone. No, I'm
kidding.

SAM: You can.

PATRICK: Oh, so these two things are happening
simultaneously?

MARISHA: Are these two things happening
simultaneously?

MATT: This is up to you guys. The Kymal journey--

LAURA: It's a couple days.

SAM: A couple days and back.

MATT: Well, not according to druidic spells.

SAM: Oh yeah. You could bamf us there.

MATT: Which is what I assumed you were referring
to about instantaneous travel.

TALIESIN: At some point we should put a teleport
circle in this, down here.

LAURA: That would probably be smart.

MATT: Well, you would have to contact an arcane
practitioner.

TALIESIN: Somebody else is going to do this. We've
got shit to do.

ASHLEY: Let's bamf in.

SAM: Let's go do it.

MARISHA: So we're all going to go?

MATT: If you would like to.

LAURA: I'm going to stay and help build.

MATT: Okay. So, Scanlan, Pike, and Keyleth, you're
going with them?

MARISHA: I guess so. You guys are going to need me
to get back.

SAM: That's true.

MARISHA: Unless I can get you there, and then you
can walk back. Fly there, walk back. Or you can--

TALIESIN: Teleport.

ASHLEY: Can you fly?

SAM: I can fly.

MARISHA: I can mist form us, and then we can get
there in how many hours?

MATT: Mist form, you'd get there in under a day.

MARISHA: Teleporting is more fun.

MATT: So what are you doing?

TALIESIN: Teleport them there, and then they can
get back on their own.

SAM: Yeah, we can get back on our own. It's two
days.

MARISHA: All right.

TALIESIN: They just killed a dragon, they'll be
fine. What's a bandit going to do?

MARISHA: Have fun, you gnomes! (magic crackle)

MATT: All right. She finds one of the surface
trees just outside of the sewage system. As she

touches her hands to its bark, the bark cracks and
splits open, revealing the doorway behind it,

about five foot of internal wood tunnel leads to
an opposing side that opens into what immediately

is a tent city on the outside walls of Kymal. You
guys quickly step through with the moments you

have before the portal slams shut.

MARISHA: High five! High five!

SAM: Nope.

MARISHA: Asshole.

MATT: You do get a little tag from Pike right
before it shuts.

MARISHA: Yeah! Scanlan, you suck!

(laughter)

MATT: You guys are now standing on the outside of
a small cluster of trees outside of Kymal. The

mountain range behind it, you can see, there are
hundreds and hundreds of people that are displaced

in the outside of the city in tents.

PATRICK: Before-- because assuming it's been, it
sounds like a couple of days, if there's walls and

artistry happening, have the wagons gotten back?

MATT: They have, actually, yes.

PATRICK: And if there are those resources, and I
know that this trip is happening, I've got to go

across and make sure that my people aren't dying
of dysentery.

SAM: You're coming?

PATRICK: Yeah.

SAM: Great. (coughing) Third wheel. Trying to get
some action here.

(laughter)

MATT: There's a high five tag to Keyleth as Pike
jumps through, and before it slams shut, Kerr

goes, "Wait!" and jumps through after.

SAM: No, this is great. It's great to have an old
dude with us also.

ASHLEY: I do think it's great!

LIAM: Two old dudes.

ASHLEY: There's so much that I wanted to talk to
you about, Kerr! I'm so glad that you came along!

SAM: (grumbles)

(laughter)

PATRICK: There's important work to be done here.

ASHLEY: There is very important work to be done,
and I feel like we all need to focus on that, and

get down to the nitty-gritty of it, you know?

LIAM: I think your nitty-gritty might be different
from somebody else's nitty-gritty.

(laughter)

ASHLEY: Let's go, let's walk!

SAM: Let's go spread the good word about Westruun,
and the great things happening in sewers there.

MATT: All right. You guys begin to make your way
from tent to tent, finding individuals, many of

which you recognize. Some have recognition of you,
and there's a brief little discussion of what's

happened, what's transpired, and you tell them of
the fall of Umbrasyl, of the herd being sundered

and sent westward, and making sure, as Scanlan
would, that Vox Machina is responsible.

SAM: Yes. And that it rhymes.

MATT: Indeed. There is no central guidance here.
The Margrave Tumner Wann, who runs Kymal, does

occasionally come out to check up on people. It's
not like they're being kept out of the city

forcefully. There's just no room for them. They've
taken in as many refugees as they can, and then

everyone else on the outside is being helped to
the best of their ability, but they're very thin

on resources. They've sent trade wagons out to
Stillben, even southward, they sent some over into

the Verdant Expanse to hopefully trade with
Syngorn. There have been people that have been

trying to help where they can. However, most of
the people outside are still beginning to starve a

little bit. A lot of the beasts of burden have
been converted into food out of necessity, so

there's a lot of empty carts and wagons around.
People are in this holding pattern, waiting to

hear any news. And the news that you bring does
bring hope to the eyes of those that do speak with you.

SAM: At some point in our journey I excuse myself
for ten minutes, drink my last shit-scrying

potion. Poop out a little loaf.

(laughter)

SAM: Take a tiny bit in it, wrap it in a little
bit of parchment, stick it in the secret

compartment of the hilt of the sword.

MATT: Okay.

SAM: The scabbard, yeah.

TALIESIN: You should name the sword Number Two.

(laughter)

SAM: I like it.

MATT: The classiest of magic practitioners,
Scanlan Shorthalt. You do so. Like spackling a

wall, you fill the compartment affixed within the
scabbard without issue.

SAM: Thank you.

LIAM: Shove that dingleberry in there.

TALIESIN: Fresh blueberry sherbet.

MATT: Anyway.

SAM: All right, so we've spread the good word. Are
people going to travel back, do you think?

MATT: Many folks are now considering returning.
Some folks speak of another group of people that

are over by the Foramere Basin. They're going to
go ahead and send people over there to give word.

Some people are asking to see if their family
members are okay, and you don't know everyone's

name there, but you tell them there are survivors.
Most of the people you talk to are intent on

returning, because this living situation is only
going to be so good for so long.

SAM: I hope we're not sentencing them to death.

TALIESIN: To be fair, the town you're
currently in could be gone next week.

SAM: That's true.

TALIESIN: Either way.

PATRICK: I know what's needed back there. I've got
access to money. They have wagons and labor. I

know most of the people in town, so I'm not going
to do it myself, but I know who-- honestly, anyone

who runs a farm is a better organizer than any
modern small business owner.

MATT: This is very true.

PATRICK: So I will talk to a few of these old,
capable farmer types and say, okay, here's the

money. You know how to bargain. Do your business,
and we can get together and we'll head back all

together. As soon as you can get everyone together
and all that. Also, I'll put somebody in charge

of making sure that we're bringing in food, and
I'll do a scan around and make sure that people

literally aren't dying of dysentery. That they
have a clean well and all of that stuff.

MATT: Yeah. I mean, there is disease, as tends to
happen when you have people who are displaced and

clustered like that in sub-par living conditions,
but no major pandemics that are kicking through

the people there. The people who are sick are
being tended to, and there are people who are

medically practiced, or at least herbalists and
such, that can help with that. You find a slight

group of trustworthy individuals that you know
would do well and understand the process, and with

the mere inclusion of a few thousand gold, would
be more than enough to be able to purchase from

the interior of Kymal enough oxen, horses, and
other beasts to bring most of the current carts

back with you. That was the only real barrier,
because Kymal was like, "We can't help you guys

"for free." Now there's gold, people are like, "Oh!
Well, let's talk." Charity only goes so far. But

you do feel through this trip that you've
definitely made an impact, and most of the people,

at least over the next week or so, will be
outfitted with the proper materials, food for the

journey, and be able to make their way back
towards Westruun.

SAM: And I will also go to look for Dr. Dra and
Kaylie at some point.

MATT: Go ahead and make an investigation check.

ASHLEY: I'll go with him.

SAM: 27.

MATT: Okay. As you walk with him, within mere
hours, almost like you picked up the scent on a

hunt, you see a glimmer of short, dark hair, and
you glance over, and sure enough, there is Kaylie,

who is currently holding over her shoulder Dr.
Dranzel, who is limping alongside her.

SAM: Oh God! Is he okay?

MATT: You can go and ask.

SAM: I'll go and ask!

MATT: They're walking across the street. They
haven't noticed you yet.

SAM: Oi! Shorthalt!

MATT: There's a stop, and Kaylie turns her head.

SAM: Hi.

MATT: She drops Dranzel's arm and rushes forward
and gives you a hug. And then lets go after a

second and pushes away. "Glad to see you survived.
That's good."

SAM: You, too. How's he?

MATT: "He's got a foot infection, nothing too
great to look about." You look down and his left

foot is all swollen. He's like, "I've had worse!"

SAM: Pike has healed feet before.

ASHLEY: May I?

MATT: "Please. Be my guest." As the half-orc grins
with his hat still floppy on his head, he presents

his horrible foot that gives off a delightful
smell of putrescence.

SAM: While she works on him, I'm going to take
Kaylie off to the side.

MATT: It's easy enough for you to cleanse elements
of disease with minor healing. We'll say for the

purposes of this, through a couple of low-level
spells you're able to pretty much take care of his

foot entirely. He's like, "That's incredible! I
mean, if you ever need a traveling troupe, we're

"always looking for someone to keep us on the up
and up! Can you cure hangovers?"

ASHLEY: I can.

MATT: "Well, hang with me, young Pike!" While this
is happening, you turn to Kaylie.

SAM: I'm so happy that you are alive and safe, and
I came a great distance to do other things, but

mainly to see you, and I just wanted to say a few
things before I go off to complete my mission. You

know, I know I'm not the father that you wanted,
but I'm the father that you have, and I'm sorry. I

just wanted to tell you that I've been doing a lot
of thinking about you, and me, and where I fit in

to the life of a family man. Most of my adult
life, I've been longing for a gnome to care for,

and I met a really good one, and she's here and
her name is Pike. And she's beautiful and

wonderful, and possibly my soulmate, but I've
learned that she's not my family and never will

be. You're the gnome that I'm to care for forever,
and I'm doing something very stupid now with my

friends. We're going to try to save the world. And
I didn't know why, but now I know, and if we die

doing it, it will be for a good thing, and if we
don't, then, well, I'll find you, and I'll be

whatever kind of father you need me to be. One
who's close and helpful.

MATT: She shushes you. Puts her finger up and
shushes you, then steps up and looks at you. The

hardness in her face softens, and there is a
little bit of tears gathering at the edge of her

eyes when she says, "Don't you die. You stay
alive."

SAM: I don't intend to. But you know, I was just
inside a--

MATT: "You're. Not. Going. To die. You're going to
go do your stupid world-saving mission like you

"told me, and you're going to come back, and we're
going to have a lot to talk about."

SAM: All right.

MATT: "All right. Can you do that for me?"

SAM: I promise you. I promise you.

MATT: "I'll hold you to that."

SAM: Well, you do the same, all right? Stay safe.
I got you a present. It's a ring. It's a beautiful

ring because you're a beautiful girl, and I'd like
you to keep it.

MATT: She takes it and looks at it and goes, "Are
you sure this wasn't for someone else?"

SAM: No. Never.

MATT: She puts it on.

SAM: And you're also strong, and you'll need this
sword. And I give her my Singing Dawn Blade, which

has a unique little imperfection at the bottom of
it, and I say, this sword has killed a king, which

makes it almost worthy enough for you. I hope that
it keeps you safe until I can see you again.

MATT: "I don't know what to say. I'll start with
thank you. Well, I feel pretty well protected."

SAM: Okay. Get out of here. If you can, try to
make your way to Vasselheim. There's three more

dragons, and it'll be a while before I kill them
all.

MATT: "I don't know, you've done quite a bit of
work in even these past few weeks. Vasselheim.

"I'll talk it over with the doctor. See what he's
interested in. You promised."

SAM: Gnome's honor.

MATT: She reaches up and grabs your shirt and
gives you a kiss on the forehead. And then pushes

you away and says, "Get out of my fucking face."
Turns around and walks back towards Dr. Dranzel.

SAM: All right, Pike, I'm done.

ASHLEY: Okay!

MATT: "But she's not done! You're sticking with
us, right?"

ASHLEY: I don't think I can.

MATT: "Oh, I know. I'm just-- I try."

ASHLEY: But you guys are headed to-- Where are you
headed to? Where are you going to go?

MATT: "I don't know! I figure we can-- based on
what we're hearing around here, folks are heading

"back to Westruun. They probably need some cheering
up on the road. From there, who knows? Actually,

"I've never been to Marquet before, but I'm
thinking--" At this point, Kaylie comes up and

goes, "Let's have a talk. I'm feeling a bit of
religion coming on. Perhaps we should look further

"west. Northwest. Vasselheim. Not a lot of music in
those parts. They'll be willing to pay for that, I

"assume." He's like, "Vasselheim? It's cold there,
isn't it? Let's get some furs." They both start

walking away from you guys.

ASHLEY: Before they go, I just reach out my hand
and introduce myself to Kaylie. I've heard many

lovely things about you.

MATT: She looks at you guardedly and takes your
hand. "As I've heard of you. He made a promise."

ASHLEY: I'll make sure that he keeps it.

MATT: "Thank you." They keep walking. So, with the
money dispersed, the group having a returning

sense of hope, with materials, goods, food being
redistributed amongst the refugees, it appears

there is a direction for the future of Westruun
that you've set into place. As you guys gather the

rest of your things, Keyleth, you take an
evening's rest with the troupe, and the next

morning return back to Westruun.

LIAM: Something I wanted to do last night. In all
the hubbub that's going on in Westruun, I spend

some time to find my sister, and I wanted to
stealth up on her.

MATT: Easy enough to do while they're out and
about taking their rest with the group in Kymal,

while you guys are still helping rebuilding. So
yes, go ahead and make a stealth check.

LAURA: I'm just reading these names on this wall!

LIAM: 20.

MATT: What's your passive perception?

LAURA: 21.

SAM: Oh, shit!

MATT: You hear a few very, very faint, very
familiar steps come across the stones behind you.

LAURA: I pretend like I don't hear them.

LIAM: Stubby! And I pull her into a big fat hug.
Your hair looks like shit, sit down. I start

braiding it.

LAURA: I love you too.

LIAM: Elaina would be proud of you. I'm proud of
you.

LAURA: That's worth more.

LIAM: Saved my life again.

LAURA: Did I?

LIAM: I crawled out through an arrow hole.

LAURA: (laughs) I saw this little lump squirming.
I thought it was probably you. Tiny little you.

LIAM: There's a bit of chicken here.

LAURA: Oh, ow!

LIAM: One day at a time, right?

LAURA: One day at a time. Ow!

LIAM: There.

MATT: All right. As you guys spend the next few
days together, forming what is a fairly functional

stronghold, for at least the necessary needs of
protecting a fair amount of refugees beneath the

northern area of Westruun, you feel confident that
with the folks that are here and the folks that

are coming, there's enough of a community building
now where it may not be absolutely necessary for

your perpetual oversight and presence, should you
have business elsewhere.

Anything else you wish to take care of
before you continue your journey?

TALIESIN: I have a small package and letter that I
want to deliver to Kerr before we leave, but other

than that.

SAM: A Kerr package?

TALIESIN: Yes. I was hoping, I was really hoping,
someone would say that.

LAURA: I would like to pull Kerr aside and say,
you know these people here, they're a bit lost,

and they need a leader.

PATRICK: Yeah, they absolutely do. We'll see if we
can find them one.

LAURA: I'm looking at one that would be wonderful.
Just something to think about.

PATRICK: I've thought about it. But no. But you're
very kind. You know, over-- How long has this been

going on?

MATT: You're going on the better part of two weeks
since the initial dragon attack. A little over two

weeks, maybe, by now.

PATRICK: One thing that I'll make a point of doing
is, while a lot of this is going on and I'm seeing

what they're really capable of, in terms of
reshaping everything, I'll spend a little bit of

time at her shoulder. We'll talk, maybe a little
bit, or not. Depending on what she's in the mood

for. And the general gist of it is, you know, that
it takes a long time, doing the stuff like this.

You're making something. And sometimes it doesn't
seem to balance out that scale very well, but

that's all you can do. And sometimes all you can
do is be around for people while they make things,

because you can't do everything.

MARISHA: Well, Kerr, I'm certainly glad that you
showed up in my life, in this time, when I am

building this-- whatever the hell this is. Thank
you.

TALIESIN: We've made you something, if you will
accept it. We pull out a small wooden box that we

put together.

MARISHA: I put some Ashari decorative stuff around
it.

MATT: So the box itself is wooden, but there is
fresh, living ivy curled across it with a few

bursts of beautiful red flowers on each side.

MARISHA: Totally. What's the flower of Westruun?

MATT: The flower of Westruun would actually be the
white iris, which grows around the western side of it.

MARISHA: Beautiful. It's covered in white irises.

TALIESIN: You sick fuck. You're amazing.

LAURA: Oh, the white iris. No big deal. It's the
white iris.

TALIESIN: Talk Westruun to me.

PATRICK: I'll--

SAM: Spring snakes!

TALIESIN: Too soon! Inside is a scrolled
parchment, a wooden bracelet, and a metal

circlet.

(water bottle falls off the table loudly)

SAM: Spring snakes!

TALIESIN: Trying to have a moment, thank you.

PATRICK: Have I got the first clue?

MATT: No.

TALIESIN: The parchment will explain everything
and how to use them, but this circlet and this

bracelet will help make you a champion that can
help protect this city now. And should the need

arise, this circlet will give you control of the
body of a creature that will help.

MARISHA: His name's Fassbender. And he's got an
awesome mustache. And the bracelet's kind of just

a bracelet, but I made it. It might be a
friendship bracelet.

PATRICK: I'll put that on.

MARISHA: It might say "friendship" in Ashari.

TALIESIN: The circlet will, if anything, if the
need ever arises, it will be something that will

help protect the city. The scroll will explain the
particulars.

MARISHA: If you go up by the funeral pyres, where
we set the trap, you'll find him.

TALIESIN: I've already moved him.

MARISHA: Percy will tell you where he is.

TALIESIN: It's in the scroll.

MARISHA: Just read the directions.

MATT: As you read the scroll, glance over it, and
you may have seen this entity walking in their

vicinity once or twice during the time you met
them. It is a 12 foot tall stone golem. It is

explained in this that with the use of this
circlet, you have control over this creature.

PATRICK: The people of this town are-- you know
that they're grateful. The problem is, for some of

you, they may not be able to say that in a way
that you can hear right now. But know that they

are, and know that they will be for a long time.
And if I have anything to say about it, it will be

a very, very long time. So thank you. Thank you
for them, and thank you for me.

MARISHA: I give Kerr a big hug.

PATRICK: Free hug!

TALIESIN: I watch awkwardly.

MATT: You do. As you guys break your hug, you look
down.

MARISHA: I'm going to miss you, Kerr.

PATRICK: Well.

MARISHA: No, it's okay, you don't have to say it
back.

PATRICK: You know where I am. It could be that I
will see you before too long. Some of us have more

time than others, of course.

MARISHA: I'm sure I will see you at some point
later.

MATT: As you step away and turn back to the wall,
which is mostly done carving with the names and

the story bits you and Percy have been working on
during this time, that child has returned, and is

still drawing with the chalk, and as you look down
at the stick figures, you can see one with

antlers, two that are smaller than the others, one
that is larger than the rest, burlier, thicker

around the chest, one that you can barely see, and
one that flies across them all on a broom. And

then, at the very end, just finishing, one with
funny glasses. The kid stands up and looks at it

once and goes, "It's done!" And then runs off.

TALIESIN: Oh, dear.

LAURA: I just take a little piece of chalk and I
add Trinket right on the other side.

MATT: Much better drawn than the rest of them.

LAURA: Almost perfect. Almost perfect.

TALIESIN: I can be right every now and then.

MARISHA: I hate you.

MATT: (laughs) So what's your next step?

SAM: We have more Vestiges to get. An airship to
steal.

TALIESIN: Yes!

MARISHA: No.

TALIESIN: Please?

ASHLEY: Vasselheim?

LIAM: I have to go to Vasselheim.

LAURA: Vasselheim is so far away, and the Feywild
is so very close.

MARISHA: I have to go to the water tribe of the
Ashari.

TRAVIS: The Feywild is close.

LIAM: I have to go to Vasselheim now, and I will
go on my own if I have to.

SAM: Why?

TALIESIN: Oh, that's why.

MATT: You have many avenues at your disposal. You
have to come up with some central choice here.

There's also Whitestone, which you guys haven't
been to in a while yet to check in with anybody.

There's definitely where all the Vestiges are
currently held. There is all those locations. So

what is your next step in the journey?

MARISHA: Why do you need to go back to Vasselheim?
Right now?

LIAM: I'm not done with her.

ASHLEY: I think I know why he needs to go back to
Vasselheim.

TRAVIS: Why?

ASHLEY: It's not my place to say.

LIAM: I have to go now. Whether it's just me--
Pike, I would be grateful if you would go with me.

LAURA: Well, I'm going with you, too.

LIAM: I don't think that this is somewhere that
you can go with me.

LAURA: Vasselheim? I've been there.

LIAM: Yes, you can go to Vasselheim, but what I
have to do there, I don't want you to have any

part of it. Just this. Just this one thing.

LAURA: Well, then I'll go to Vasselheim and I'll
wait outside.

LIAM: I need you.

ASHLEY: I take him and I pull him aside. I know
that you've been avoiding me. And I just have to

say, I don't know who this-- I don't know who or
what this Raven Queen is, and I think that's what

scares me the most. But I know if you're choosing
a life of faith or whatever you want this to be,

I'm happy for you.

LIAM: I take her by the hand and I pull her
further away. Much further away. Did the others

tell you what happened in the tomb? In the sunken
tomb?

ASHLEY: I'm getting bits and pieces.

LIAM: I have been avoiding you. Percival-- There
was a trap, and Vex'ahlia-- I almost lost

Vex'ahlia, and a woman appeared. Not a woman. A
god appeared. She appeared, and I did something. I

tried to save my sister. I did something stupid. I
tried to bargain. I didn't even fucking want the

armor that I'm wearing right now! I didn't want
it. I don't think I've ever told you how much I

admire you.

ASHLEY: Vax.

LIAM: I always have. You have a kindness about you
that comes with such ease and honesty. You have

always carried a light. Her light. I think, you
know, I admire everyone in our band of misfit

toys, but you most of all, and when you left, we
all noticed its absence. All of us. I think I

wanted to find it again for myself. Hers. Your
benefactor. I felt Her, and I told myself that

when you came back, I was going to come to you and
I was going to learn from you, and follow you and

follow Her. As soon as you came back. And like so
many things that I reach for in this life, it

slipped through my fingers, and I've gone and
painted myself into a corner. I can't anymore. And

I think when I saw you, it was just a reminder of
what I lost. I'm sorry for avoiding you.

ASHLEY: Don't be sorry. I understand now. And I
don't think that you're lost in any way. I think

if you felt in some way that this is who you've
needed to follow, then follow her.

LIAM: Well, the bottom line is I couldn't walk
away if I wanted to, because I know that I would

lose my sister. But I don't want to anymore. We've
all been close to death, all of us, and now I'm

just a little bit closer. It took me a bit, but
maybe we're not meant to be happy. I don't know.

ASHLEY: I don't think that's true.

LIAM: Well, I don't know. But I know that I can be
of use.

ASHLEY: You can be, and you are of use. I'm not
the type of person who would ever say that you

have to choose and follow who I follow, but I will
tell you now that if the Raven Queen fucks with

you, or hurts you, or doesn't change you for the
better, then she's going to have to deal with me,

and we're going to have a problem. But as of right
now, I love you, Vax. It is going to be fine, and

I am here for you, no matter what, and you can
talk to me any time. Don't be ashamed or

embarrassed.

LIAM: I was. I'm doing better.

ASHLEY: Okay. Don't be ashamed. And turn that
frown upside down.

LIAM: It would help if you stayed around.

ASHLEY: I will do my best. Sometimes people call,
and sometimes I just have to go to do work.

(laughter)

ASHLEY: But maybe you'll discover that with the
Raven Queen. Maybe she'll take you to jobs and you

just have to go.

SAM: Prime Time.

ASHLEY: But I adore you. Okay?

LIAM: I was all kinds of fucked up a couple of
weeks ago.

ASHLEY: Well, you are all kinds of fucked up all
the time, and that's why we love you. We're all

all kinds of fucked up, and that's why we all are
together.

SAM: I walk by, eating chicken and wearing no
pants.

ASHLEY: See? And I give him a slap on his bare ass
as he walks by. You okay? You will be.

LIAM: Ish.

ASHLEY: Ish. That's all we can be, is ish. Okay?

LIAM: Okay.

ASHLEY: Okay.

SAM: To the Feywild!

MATT: To where?

SAM: He needs a destination.

MATT: What is your next plan of action?

LIAM: I'm going to Vasselheim.

SAM: God damn it. To Vasselheim!

LAURA: To Vasselheim, then.

TALIESIN: If emo elf is going to Vasselheim, we're
going to Vasselheim.

LIAM: You can go. I can catch up.

TRAVIS: You can't go by yourself.

SAM: Well, we have the rocks. We could send a rock
with him.

LAURA: That's fucking stupid. I'm going. I
wouldn't let him go to Vasselheim.

TRAVIS: We're all going to Vasselheim.

TALIESIN: I have things I can do in Vasselheim.

LIAM: It's the only bastion of standing
civilization left.

SAM: Is Feywild on the way?

LAURA: No.

MARISHA: No, it's in the opposite direction. It's
south of here.

MATT: The Feywild is ever-present, technically.
It's another plane.

SAM: Oh, let's go on the way. It's like on the
way, practically.

LAURA: No, we know an entrance to the Feywild in
the Frostweald.

MATT: There are many doors to the Feywild
throughout the world. You just only know one.

SAM: Let's just let Vax go by himself.

LAURA: No.

TALIESIN: No, there's actually things that can be
done in Vasselheim.

MARISHA: I pull Vax aside.

TRAVIS: Christ.

LIAM: Hey, you had two hours to beat the shit out
of a goliath! Sit tight, buddy.

SAM: I pull Kerr aside.

LAURA: I pull Grog aside.

TALIESIN: I walk away.

LIAM: Catch phrase! Catch phrase! Meme! Tweet
tweet tweet!

MATT: All right, so. As Keyleth pulls you aside.

MARISHA: Do you want to go alone? Do you want to
go by yourself? Because if you want to go by

yourself, say something, and we'll let you go. If
you think this is something you need to do by

yourself.

LIAM: I'm actually scared shitless, and I would
like Pike and you to go with me. I would like my

sister not to go anywhere near her. That's what I
would like, and that's it. You and Pike.

MARISHA: Then say something.

LIAM: I did.

MARISHA: No, you didn't.

LIAM: Hey, I'd like to go to Vasselheim, Pike.
Keyleth, can you open up a hole in a tree? We can

go quick. Everyone can go to Vasselheim. There's
just a specific place in Vasselheim that I need to

go. And I love you, but I just don't want you to
be a part of it. You either hang out with Grog, or

stay outside, okay?

LAURA: Fine.

LIAM: Okay.

SAM: To Vasselheim!

MARISHA: To Vasselheim.

TALIESIN: To outside a building in Vasselheim.

MATT: Indeed.

MARISHA: To a far wooded area where magic is
permissible, outside of Vasselheim.

MATT: Divine magic is permissible. The essence of
pulling magic beyond the powers. It's the arcane

practitioning that is frowned upon. It's not
illegal. It's just generally frowned upon.

TALIESIN: It's rude.

MATT: But yes, as you step back to the surface
beyond the subterranean personnel bunker that is

now the sewage system of Westruun, you find
yourself at a nearby tree. The doorway opens, and

you all dart through into the cold, snow-dappled,
cobbled streets of Vasselheim.

And that's where we'll end tonight's game. Picking
up next week, at that moment. Thank you guys so

much, that was a great session! Dude, Patrick,
thank you so much for joining us!

MARISHA: Patrick, my new best friend!

LAURA: Thanks, Kerr Bear!

PATRICK: Thanks so much for having me. I've been a
fan for a long time. It was a real treat.

MATT: Dude, our pleasure, man. Thanks for coming.

ASHELY: As we have been of you.

MARISHA: Kerr Bear Share!

LAURA: And thanks, Loot Crate!

MATT: And thanks Loot Crate, for deciding to
sponsor us again! And thank you guys for being so

supportive of us having sponsors now! It's really,
really helpful.

TRAVIS: Use the link! Show your Critter power!

MARISHA: It makes us feel like we're a grown up
show now.

TALIESIN: We're a real Twitch stream!

MARISHA: We're a real Twitch stream with
sponsors!

PATRICK: Is it gauche if I mention a thing that's
going on?

MATT: Yes, please, go for it!

SAM: What are you, a sellout? Come on, man.

PATRICK: There's a subtle difference between
selling and selling out.

MATT: Exactly. You're fine.

PATRICK: And I'm constantly pushing that border. I
run a charity called World Builders, and we raise

money to support various charities. We rally the
geek community, and right now we're running our

midseason fundraiser. It's an Indiegogo with a
bunch of cool things that geeks might like. We

teamed up with Rat Queens. We're doing a T-shirt
for them. If you're a fan of the Dresden Files,

we've got a T-shirt based on Harry Dresden and
those books. We've got a T-shirt based on my

books. We've got, literally, there's 40 items
there, a bunch of different cool geekery of

various sorts. For those of you that have read The
Slow Regard of Silent Things, they pulled off a

foxen night light. It looks beautiful. I should've
brought the prototype so I could show it to you. I

should've brought the prototype, but it turned out
so good.

LAURA: I'm going to look it up.

PATRICK: The thing is, it only lasts for four more
days. This is just a weeklong fundraiser. You can

get coffee, you can get hoodies, you can get a
bunch of these things, and all the money goes to

charity. If you're interested, swing on by and
take a peek at what we've got. If there's any of

my people in the Twitch stream, which I'm guessing
there are, you can throw a link up there so other

people can see it.

TALIESIN: What's that web address again?

PATRICK: If you search on worldbuilders.org,
that's our main web page. This fundraiser in

particular is happening on Indiegogo.

LAURA: Plus there's a link in your Twitter
account, right?

PATRICK: Yeah, I've been talking about it in my
Twitter account, and I do occasionally Twitch

stream, too, and I throw up the link there as
well.

MATT: And what is your Twitter account, just so
folks know?

PATRICK: @patrickrothfuss, just all together.

MATT: Perfect. Fantastic. Thank you guys again, a
great session tonight, and yeah. I guess we'll see

you guys in a week. Until then, we ask ourselves:
Is it Thursday yet? Have a good night, guys!