MATT: Welcome to tonight's episode of Critical
Role, where a bunch of us nerdy-ass voice actors

get together and play Dungeons & Dragons. Tonight,
apologies for the slight technical issues, but

we're back and we're going to be playing through
tonight's adventure. Before that gets started,

let's go ahead and get through a couple of quick
announcements. First and foremost, it's our third

week of our Loot Crate sponsorship. Thank you very
much.

(cheering)

MATT: Thank you for your interest in our show and
our audience, so for those of you who are

interested, Loot Crate is a really cool service
where once a month they bring you themed boxes

that have mystery contents within that are part of
that theme. All generally pop culture and

geek-centric.

LAURA: Taliesin, you're so loud!

MATT: Taliesin, quiet!

SAM: Shut up, Taliesin. Jesus.

(laughter)

TRAVIS: Stop masturbating during the
announcements.

LAURA: It's so loud. What are you doing?

TALIESIN: I think I hit my microphone.

SAM: Don't worry. You're not an audio
professional.

MATT: That's okay. At least it wasn't during a
very climactic and important emotional moment in

the game.

TRAVIS: (laughing) Yeah, that's right.

ASHLEY: You're welcome!

MATT: (laughs) Anyway, yeah. Loot Crate's awesome.
We've gone with it for years. They send mystery

items that are all geek and pop culture-related.
They're a lot of fun, and if you go to their

website at www.LootCrate.com/criticalrole and
check it out. If you like it and you get a

subscription, you can use criticalrole-- one word--
as a promo code to get $3 off a subscription.

SAM: I'm wearing some of the stuff from the crate
right now.

TRAVIS: And they've got a power crate coming out.

LAURA: David Bowie! Labyrinth!

TRAVIS: They have an Infinity Gauntlet oven mitt.

MARISHA: That's pretty dope.

LAURA: Is that giving something away? I feel like
we gave spoilers.

LIAM: It was already Periscoped.

LAURA: Oh, that's true. Never mind.

MATT: That would be nice in the box. We're good?
We didn't waste it?

LIAM: What's in the box?

ASHLEY: (singing) A dick in a box.

MATT: I hope there is no dick in a box as part
of this service. Or perhaps I guess you do,

depending on-- that's a whole different
box service.

MARISHA: If there is, you should call your local
post office.

(laughter)

MATT: That's a love box membership. Anyway, so!
Also, once again, I want to remind everyone, we

are happily carrying along the torch of 826LA, a
fantastic charity that's been with us from the

very beginning. 826 is a wonderful charity that
promotes creative writing skills and literacy in

mostly underprivileged kids at a young age, at
which they normally don't have access to tutoring

and people to help them on that direction, so if
you can and have the opportunity and you're

feeling like giving to some awesome people out
there, 826LA, and 826 in general in your area, is

a great charity to take a look at, so please. You
guys have been a tremendous help in the past and

you may continue to be so, if you wish.

TRAVIS: Absolutely.

MATT: Good times. Let's see. Taliesin is joining
us from Hawaii. Where are you at, Taliesin?

TALIESIN: Where am I right now? I'm in my hotel
room. Somewhere-- which island are we on? Oahu.

We're on Oahu. For Amazing Comic-Con.

MATT: If you're on Oahu and you're watching this,
you should go say hi to him. Not right now, but

tomorrow and Sunday. And the rest of the great
folks that are out there with you. All good

people. Big old Street Fighter troupe. Also, we
have Travis and his nose goblin and Laura, you

guys are attending Puerto Rico Comic-Con?

LAURA: Yeah! We leave early tomorrow morning.

LIAM: Ah, you can sleep on the plane.

LAURA: Good times.

TRAVIS: Yeah! If you're in Puerto Rico, come see
us. We'll be there, totally sleep-deprived and

bushy-tailed.

LIAM: It's a good one, though.

TRAVIS: It's a good one?

LIAM: Yeah, I went to that one.

TRAVIS: We're excited to go. San Juan, baby. San
Juan!

MATT: That's pretty slick, actually.

MARISHA: That's awesome.

MATT: Does anybody else-- you said you wanted to
mention something?

LIAM: Yeah, Sam Riegel and I are both in Fallout:
Far Harbor, which is the first big DLC story dump.

"Fah Hahbah." Fallout is my favorite way to escape
reality second to this, so I hope you come join

me. I play a human guy, but there's also a synth.
Look for the synth.

SAM: I think I play a synth. And there you go.

LIAM: There you go. That's it.

SAM: Good plug.

MARISHA: You can also build a Taliesin robot,
which I did, and named it the Taliesin 2000.

LAURA: Aw, that's awesome!

MATT: So you could take either a custom-build
Taliesin or me as your companion to Far Harbor and

talk to these shmucks. And have a full Critical
Role after-the-apocalypse experience. That's

awesome. Okay, we're actually going to be
downloading that soon. Anyone else have anything

they want to mention before we jump into the game
tonight?

TRAVIS: Let's do this.

MARISHA: I don't want to die.

MATT: Let's go ahead and get this started, as we
dive into tonight's episode of Critical Role!

SAM: Nothing's happening.

MATT: No intro.

SAM: Nothing's happening.

(laughter)

SAM: Wait! Let's act it out.

MATT: Act out the intro?

MARISHA: Okay!

(imitating music)

TRAVIS: (growls)

MARISHA: (swishing sound effects)

SAM: Taliesin, do something!

LIAM: Shoot from your screen!

LAURA: Shoot, you're shooting your gun! Be Percy!

LIAM: Then you got hit by a wang!

LAURA: Oh, you fall over!

MATT: Well done Taliesin, that was great. Ashley
picks him up.

LAURA: She's healing him.

ASHLEY: I'll hold your hand! Eyes closed, holding
my holy symbol!

MATT: And it got weird.

ASHLEY: Had to add it.

MATT: And now it swings--

LIAM: Oh, Laura Bailey standing in for an orc!
(stabbing sound) Ugh, gah! Now be yourself oh!

LAURA: Pew pew!

LIAM: And I'll go oh!

LAURA: And then I'll go oh! Then I wink at you.

TRAVIS: This was not the plan, for the love of god
help us!

LAURA: And then I shoot another one at you!

[actual intro plays]

MATT: Welcome back to this majestic clusterfuck
that is tonight.

(laughter)

MATT: As open beta leaves its red and raw path, we
rebuild! We stand up against the swaggering might

of the new programming, and we stand tall for
tonight's episode of Critical Role. Previously,

Vox Machina, the band of adventurers walking
through Tal'Dorei post-attack of the Chroma

Conclave, an evil troupe of chromatic dragons that
are currently holding power in this region and

beyond, after tearing through many of the bastions
of society in this countryside. They have gone on

a quest to search for artifacts known as the
Vestiges of Divergence, from ancient wars and

heroes of old and yore, to use against the leader
of the Chroma Conclave, Thordak the Cinder King.

Now as part of this confrontation, they made their
way to the city of Westruun, which was partially

destroyed by the black dragon, Umbrasyl. While it
was off and away with the rest of the Conclave,

was then conquered by the wandering Herd of Storms
that Grog once belonged to. After finding it

occupied by these rather brutal barbaric
individuals, Vox Machina set into the city,

destroyed and tore down their leader Kevdak, to
much fanfare from Grog's past. And through

Kevdak's son and Grog's majestic might they
decided to take the remainder of the Herd of

Storms and take out Umbrasyl, the great black
dragon. Half the Herd didn't like that and has

decided to leave to their own devices, where the
rest of the party possibly prepares to plot and

plan a way to kill an ancient black dragon.

TRAVIS: I don't like the way he said that. Why'd
you have to say it like that? It's just a black

dragon!

MATT: What else am I going to say?

LIAM: Why the dramatic pauses?

MATT: Because it's fun.

TRAVIS: You used the word 'somehow'.

MATT: I like it. You guys, having just finished
this stroke of a conversation with Zanror in the

Margrave's homestead, the dawn light is now
beginning to pour over the mountain range in the

distance. The day has officially begun. Zanror has
stepped out and has begun to speak with a few of

his trusted Herd members to stand down for the
day, letting people know that the battle has been

postponed for the time being while a plan is to be
enacted, prepared for, and then sprung the

following day. The rest of you guys have this day
to prepare however you see fit. So I ask you: what

would you like to do?

SAM: We have so many things that we need to do!

MATT: Where do we begin?

SAM: We need supplies. We need to parlay with our
allies. We need lots of chains.

LAURA: We need to trap the dragon obviously on the
ground.

SAM: For that we'll need some bindings of some
sort: chains, hooks, spikes.

TALIESIN: I have a thought, I have a thought in
that direction. When we're ready, I was thinking

of basically building what is essentially a giant
pressurized mousetrap.

LAURA: Is there, how would you do that?

LIAM: How much time do you need, Perce?

TALIESIN: Do I have access to some people to help
build it, and some perhaps broken homes and chunks

of wood and chain?

MATT: You do have access to broken homes, chain,
and scraps at your disposal. As far as individuals

that can aid you, you have individuals that can
help hold things for you. The Herd of Storms is

not known for its ingenious use of tinkering
tools, but--

LAURA: What about blacksmiths in town? Are there
any blacksmiths left?

MATT: You can check around.

TALIESIN: This would be a blacksmith just to make
a couple springs. This is not a complicated-- This

is literally something you could make in the
woods. It's a slightly more complex version of

something you could make in the woods to catch
birds. I'm just building a really big version.

It's a whole bunch of systems like this that will
have chains and weights on them that when you

disrupt the weight at the center the whole thing
goes clunk, throws a whole bunch of-- it's

basically a netting system. It's an entanglement
and will be an entanglement.

MATT: Okay. I'll tell you what. Go ahead and roll
an investigation check, Percy, if you don't mind.

LAURA: Can we help him at all?

MATT: Yeah, I'll say if you want to go ahead and
aid to that, take advantage on that, Percy.

TALIESIN: Thank god. Yeah, no, not very good.

MATT: What'd you roll?

TALIESIN: I rolled a six.

LAURA and MATT: With advantage?

TALIESIN: Yes.

MATT: So! After taking the better part of about
three hours scouring the town, most of the

remaining villagers--

LAURA: He took three hours doing that?!

MATT: Three hours, so, from what he's doing with
the aid of people that aided him, which would be

Vex asking about, the few folks that have any
experience with any sort of blacksmithy are the

folks that make horseshoes, and that's the extent
of the complication they can create. So they can

attempt to, with your aid, craft some springs.
They have the materials to do very basic metalwork

and ironwork, but the people you encounter, two
folks in particular, they're both a little

confused by your overall design and are waiting
for you to lead them in a specific direction.

TALIESIN: Okay, I'm just going to take them and
I'm going to start building one and see if they

can follow suit then. Three springs will be more
than enough for this design.

MATT: How big a spring?

TALIESIN: I would say, how tall is this dragon?

MATT: Roughly 30 to 40 feet, depending.

TALIESIN: About a two-to-three-foot spring, then.
Three two-to-three-foot springs made of solid

iron. Just enough to lift the system and toss. And
it's just, you make them like chainmail. It's a

process that exists. I'm not going nuts.

MATT: I'm not saying you're going nuts. You are a
little stretched for supplies and manpower based

on the circumstances in Westruun for a complicated
task, but it's fairly possible, but it will pretty

much take the entirety of your day and most of
your night to prepare this. You'll be able to

squeeze by with this, with the construction of the
device, and have maybe just enough room for-- I'll

let you squeeze in a long rest.

TALIESIN: That'll be perfect.

MATT: But that's success or fail.

TALIESIN: That'll do.

MATT: Okay. What are the rest of you guys
planning?

LIAM: Three hours ago, back when we were still
together, I pulled Scanlan aside. Listen, I want

to talk to you. I have an idea.

SAM: Is this about Kaylie? Because I'm still
worried about her. But I don't think that we

should discuss her right now. We have other
things! Why are you harping on this? She's my

daughter.

(laughter)

SAM: Just give it a rest.

LIAM: You're right, I should have never dragged
you down into the sewers, and I apologize. It

won't happen again. But listen to me. I have an
idea. It's a dangerous idea, and I don't want to

lead with it. I don't want to fight this dragon,
to be honest, but I think the group is going that

direction. If we do-- Percival's run off to try
something, maybe we're just going to run out. I

have an idea that only you can do.

SAM: Okay.

LIAM: We have a rod.

SAM: Yes.

LIAM: Not the cube. A rod that 
cannot be moved.

SAM: We could use it in some way.

LIAM: You can teleport, and I'm almost too afraid
to even suggest it, but if shit goes south, how

would you feel about teleporting inside of
Umbrasyl's stomach? With that rod.

SAM: Well, what has he eaten? Because it could be
nasty in there!

LIAM: I assume it will. I don't know anatomy. I
haven't talked to my sister about this. She might

be able to give us input, and I don't want to lead
with this. I don't want you to do it because I

feel like you could melt in there.

SAM: Of course I could melt in there! I'm a little
man and he's got acid on him!

LIAM: I know. I'm looking for a way through this
fucking clusterfuck and if there's nothing else to

do, you could go in there and click that rod and
give him the worst suppository ever invented!

SAM: Listen. If there's a man invented who can
go to where shit is made and make some really good

shit, that's me. So let's pursue this. As a plan
B.

LIAM: As a plan B. And I take him by the
shoulders. You remember that little talk we had

about a week ago, when you told--

SAM: Is this about Kaylie again?

LIAM: No, we can talk about Kaylie in a couple of
days, all right?

SAM: Okay.

LIAM: When you told me how things were better now?
Okay, you remember that?

SAM: Yes.

LIAM: That was fucking insane. They are not
better. Everything is terrible! Our lives are

terrible. They are way worse than they were six
months ago, way worse. I was with all of you

assholes a year ago, and two years ago, they're
way worse.

SAM: You're saying that, a sullen loner who is
confiding in one of his closest friends while

holding him on the shoulders. This you never had
before.

LIAM: I slap him on the cheek a little bit and
say: you are a fucking madman, but I am glad

you're here.

SAM: I'm glad to be with you.

LIAM: And I love you. And I give him a playful
slap across the face.

SAM: Six points of damage.

(laughter)

MATT: Unexpected, sneak attack. 7d6 points of
damage.

SAM: All right, so I'm going to go talk to Vex. An
expert in dragons I hope?

LAURA: I'm an expert on dragons.

SAM: And ask her how dragons work, how their
bodies work.

LAURA: What do you mean?

SAM: Where they're vulnerable, where they make the
acid, where they have lungs, where they have

stomachs, how many stomachs? Are they like a cow
with eight stomachs or something?

MATT: Go ahead and make an intelligence check with
advantage.

TRAVIS: Cows have eight stomachs?

MARISHA: They've got like two or three.

LAURA: Shut up! 17.

MATT: 17. Yeah, dragons have the pieces you
imagine they would have in the right vicinity.

Their stomach is quite acidic, as it has been
known to dissolve some of the hardiest of

creatures, let alone break down some basic
minerals and materials. So it's not a happy place

to be, but it's not like instantaneous
dissolution. It will hurt. Also know that the

breath weapon, the acid that a black dragon, which
uses acid as a breath weapon in a stream in front

of it, much like your lightning bolt, does not
come from its stomach. That acid is much more

toxic, concentrated, and comes from a separate
part of its body, a gland, a breathing mechanism

that projects it outward.

LAURA: Where's the gland located? Would I know
that, like, in his throat?

MATT: It's somewhere in this vicinity, you're not
entirely certain.

SAM: So if I miss, end up in that gland, that
would be not good.

MATT: That would be really bad.

LIAM: Don't roll a one!

ASHLEY: But that would probably be really hard to
just get right into that spot.

LIAM: But you know, you wouldn't suffer.

LAURA: It would be instantaneous, at least.

SAM: Also. Vex. Vex'ahlia.

LAURA: Oh. Getting fancy now, Scanlan Shorthalt.

SAM: Thank you. Your brother tells me that you
have some sort of acid-resistant something.

LAURA: The armor? That I took from him?

LIAM: Yes, my armor. She has it.

LAURA: Well-- are you here? Are you next-- are you
next to me now?

LIAM: No, I'm about five feet behind you rolling
my eyes and doing this the whole time you're

talking about dragons.

LAURA: It's the armor that I won fair and square
from him! Yes, I am wearing it right now.

SAM: Is that your primary armor?

LAURA: It is.

SAM: How would you feel about me asking you to
take it off? Doing a little unbuckling and giving

it to me instead?

LAURA: Scanlan, that's going to cost you a lot of
money.

SAM: We could swap armor.

LAURA: You think your little armor will fit me.

SAM: I have a pretty broad chest. These are pecs.

LAURA: What kind of armor do you have?

SAM: I have cold snap leather armor.

LAURA: Which is cold resistant?

SAM: Cold resistant. Maybe the dragon will throw
snowballs at you.

LAURA: I doubt that. What is it, is it plus two?

LIAM: Yeah.

SAM: Plus two on top of the armor, so it's four.

MATT: So it's armor plus two.

LIAM: It's better overall.

LAURA: Okay. Well sweet, then yeah, sure, give it
to me.

SAM: Can we do that?

MATT: Yeah.

LAURA: Strip on down there, Scanlan.

SAM: Well, ladies first!

LAURA: No, you first, I want to see the cube and
then I'll give you my armor.

SAM: Shall we make it interesting and play a
little poker?

LAURA: There's no time for that.

SAM: All right. I very slowly and sultrily
unbuckle my armor, let one strap fall, let the

other strap fall, just do a little shimmy and let
it fall to the ground, sort of like The Crying

Game. Just sort of, camera pans up a little bit
and it's just, there's nothing underneath, it's

just me and the cube. And I cry a little.

(laughter)

LIAM: During which I pick up Scanlan's shawm and
start playing it terribly. No idea what I'm doing.

Do you blow into this, are there strings? I don't
know.

LAURA: I try really hard not to start laughing.

SAM: Go with what your body tells you to do. 
How are you going to take off your armor?

LAURA: That's a good question. Do you want to walk
away for this?

LIAM: Yeah, I leave the room.

LAURA: I completely ungracefully take it off and
throw it at you. Give me that armor. How is this

going to fit me? I'm just naked trying to squirm
into these extra-skinny jeans.

MATT: Actually, as you pull the armor pieces up,
they shift and formfit to your size as part of

their enchantment.

LAURA: What color is it? Is it beautiful?

MATT: The cold snap armor is I believe dark browns
with traces of white and silver along the edges as

a cold winter motif as part of the enchantment.

LAURA: Does it match my storm bow?

MATT: Yeah, I guess you could say that.

LAURA: You might not be getting this back,
Scanlan.

SAM: Oh, really? Well. What does mine look like?

MATT: For a moment, it looks pretty haphazard and
hanging off of you.

SAM: Oh, these are like C-cups up here.

(laughter)

MATT: As the armor slowly retracts and finds
itself to your form.

SAM: Oh! They went down.

MATT: In that moment, Scanlan learned a lot about
himself.

SAM: All right. I feel good about this. Now we'll
continue our dragon lesson I suppose.

LAURA: Wait, why did you need to change-- are you
going to be up close and personal with him?

SAM: Well, I think we all are, you know. 
He breathes acid.

LAURA: Well yes, but.

SAM: Yeah, so we could get hit! Now I'm more
protected than you are!

LAURA: This was a really stupid-- why did I give
that up?

SAM: I'm very charming.

LAURA: Now you're not here?

LIAM: You told me to leave! You took off your
clothes. I'm Liam, I'm not Vax, what're you

talking about?

LAURA: Are you planning on doing something?

SAM: We're all planning on doing something, and I
don't think that my part of the plan is any

stupider than yours will be. So. Good luck to you.
I'll keep your armor safe. Hopefully we can trade

back. And if not, you can peel it off my dead
body.

LAURA: As long as you're not melted from all the
acid.

ASHLEY: I'd like to attune to my frostbrand
sword.

MATT: Okay, so you'll be putting aside the mace of
disruption and taking on the frostband instead.

Okay. Cool.

LIAM: Oh, shit, I go running after Percival. I'm
going to go find Percival.

TALIESIN: Yeah.

LIAM: Yeah. Well. Does that take an hour, or do I
catch up with him pretty quick?

MATT: You would know the direction he went, and
thankfully in the awkward still-quiet that is the

center of the town now that it's missing most of its
populace, and those that are there are

acknowledging the tension of what might be coming,
and many of them are now packing up and leaving

and getting out of the town, evacuating when
they've been notified of the possible coming

battle. The sound of metal clangs in the distance,
and the gathering of materials from some of the

rubble is not too difficult to discern over time.
Takes you about half an hour or so to locate him.

LIAM: Oh, there's that white hair. Percival!

TALIESIN: Yes? Hello. Bit busy. What?

LIAM: Yeah, I'm sorry, I don't want to take up a
lot of your time. I reckon you're going to be busy

with this all day, yeah?

TALIESIN: Oh yes. This is quite a project.

LIAM: Ah, and also tomorrow. You're probably going to
be taking potshots at that thing, yeah?

TALIESIN: Ah, that's my hope is to be, honestly,
as far away from this as humanly possible.

LIAM: That's probably not my plan. Can I have use
of your blade?

TALIESIN: Oh! The dragonslayer longsword, yes, of
course, of course. I pull it off my belt and hand

it off. Could help. I'm a little terrified that
you're getting that close to it, but here it is.

LIAM: It's just in case.

TALIESIN: It's quite a piece.

LIAM: Good luck today.

TALIESIN: Thank you.

LIAM: Good luck tomorrow.

TALIESIN: I am down to my normal sword now.

LAURA: Can I be talking to Zanror?

MARISHA: I'll join you in that. That was my next
plan.

MATT: The two of you eventually find Zanror.
Zanror and Warra are in the process of piling

weapons and armor with the rest of the Herd into
the center of the town where the battle outside of

the Margrave's house happened. Most of the
warriors there are in the process of steeling

themselves, some of them are gathering their
materials, some are in the process of doing some

minor ritualistic scarring in preparation for the
battle. There is very little conversation

happening. It seems like there is this quiet
understanding that this, for many, might be their

last day. They're making peace with the coming
glory of battle. You'd expect this sense of tense

fear, this very Battle of Helm's Deep-type
acceptance of doom, but this is a different

personality amongst the Herd here. There is almost
a brimming excitement with the idea of possible

glory or at least a glorious end. And it very much
befits the story that you've heard of Grog's past

history, and very easy to see where he once came
from.

LAURA: I bring Zanror a big tankard of ale and sit
down in front of him.

MATT "Oh, good to see you."

MARISHA: I stand behind Vex'ahlia.

MATT: "This for me?"

LAURA: Yeah.

MATT: Looks to Worra.

MARISHA: Don't worry, we wouldn't try to poison
you the night before a dragon-fight.

MATT: (laughs) "That would be rather stupid,
wouldn't it?"

MARISHA: It would.

MATT: And he just downs it all in one big chug.
"Thanks."

LAURA: Zanror? Did I hear you correctly before,
that you have been the one speaking with the beast

in the past?

MATT: "I have, aye."

LAURA: So when it comes and gathers its treasure,
it stops and talks, or does it just come and take

it and leave?

MATT: "It has at times. More at the beginning. If
it had questions and seemed curious. That wore off

"after the first few times. Now it just seems to
come and take and find its way out."

LAURA: So if the treasure looked different this
time, it might stop and talk about it?

MATT: He stops for a second. "Maybe."

LAURA: I'm curious because I know you said you are
lacking in gold and treasure. What will entice the beast?

MATT: "Hm. Beyond that, I don't really know.
That's what is forcing our hand right now."

LAURA: What if we had a way of providing some
gold?

And maybe you provide an offering of a different
kind? What if you say that your father Kevdak had

been plotting against the dragon and you found out
about it. Would you be able to offer his body and

the body of his allies as tribute to the dragon?

MATT: "Huh."

LAURA: Dragons are vain.

MATT: And you do know specifically white dragons,
or sorry, black dragons, they're very cruel by

nature. They actually enjoy messing with creatures
they see below them, especially intended prey,

torturing for extended periods of time before
killing. They aren't comparatively as vain as

other dragons per se, but all chromatics fall in
some way shape or form on that same scale of

self-love to the point of being a near-disease to
many of them. Zanror thinks to himself for a

second and goes, "We can certainly try. I mean,
I've got no more use for it, though it's going to

"be hard to convince it without a head. I'm pretty
sure Grog took that with him."

LAURA: Well, we may be able to get that back. How
are you planning on hiding your fellow warriors

from the dragon so as not to attract its
attention? Because we may have some ideas.

MATT: "We'll have to share ideas. Ours was to go
ahead and plod up Gatshadow. Usually it's about

"noon when it comes down for the offering. We leave
it what little we have left, possibly lose two

"men in the process of delivering it, and then when
it returned to its place we'd be there waiting to

"ambush it once it returned, use that time when it
was gone to go ahead and hole up inside its home."

LAURA: Okay.

MATT: "That was our intent."

MARISHA: We might be able to do one better.

LAURA: A dragon's lair is not--

MARISHA: Especially a black dragon's lair.

LAURA: We wouldn't do much damage to it there, in
fact, it's probably laid several traps against us

already.

MATT: "Well, there's not much we can really do
when we're all fighting with our fucking axes and

"swords, can we? In the lair at least it's stuck on
the ground."

LAURA: What if we could trap it onto the ground
here?

MATT: "How do you intend to do that?"

LAURA: We have a wonderful tinkerer. Quite
talented. And he's creating something to trap the

dragon.

MATT: "Really."

LAURA: Plus we can provide several chains. Once
it's on the ground, maybe your very strong

goliaths could try to snare it, grappling-hook it,
throw some chains up and over?

MARISHA: This pile of weapons you have here, I see
a decent amount of javelins. A rudimentary

harpoon, in the hands of some of your strongest,
could help wrangle him down.

MATT: He stops for a second and goes, "I just want
to be clear we don't underestimate the sheer size,

"strength, and ferocity of this beast. With all 20
men, we might be able to hold it down, I don't

"know how long. I hope that contraption your friend
is making is strong enough to aid us that last

"little bit, because I get the feeling that if our
might is put to just keeping it on the ground--

"well, that's a lot less of our strengths that we
could be tending to. A lot less blades we could

"put into its hide."

LAURA: Well, hopefully it would only be needed for
a small amount of time before our magic users have

their way with it.

MARISHA: About that time I light up my hands.

MATT: "That's impressive. You know what else is
impressive? Watching four of my friends melt in a

"matter of seconds."

MARISHA: That is very impressive. You're not
wrong.

MATT: "I just want to instill with you an
understanding not to be brash, not to go ahead and

"run into this unless you're absolutely certain.
Now. I've got chains, you've got chains. We've got

"strong men. If we put ourselves intent on just
holding this beast down, I have the feeling, even

"with our weight behind it, it's going to be a
difficult attempt. Do we have any other way of

"anchoring it down, something else we can put the
chains to?"

MARISHA: About that time I walk over to the-- is
there a stone wall in here?

MATT: I mean, there are pieces of stone building
in the vicinity.

MARISHA: I put my hand against the stone and I
cast Transmute Rock and I push my hand into the

stone as it turns to mud.

LAURA: And now turn it back, Keyleth.

MARISHA: I take a spear that's on the floor, stick
it in, and then turn it back.

MATT: All right. Let me look this up real fast.

MARISHA: See? Magic.

(laughter)

MARISHA: Put my hand underneath the spear. Put my
hand over the spear.

LAURA: Ah? Ah? No strings!

MARISHA: Where is it, where is it?

MATT: Yeah, mud to rock, yeah. Lasts for-- it's
instantaneous. So when he looks at that, he goes,

"So. What you're saying is if we can find a few
places in which the rock is close to the surface,

"you could lock these chains in?"

MARISHA: I think I could lock the whole dragon
in.

LAURA: Once it's on the ground, if we can pull it
down enough, she may be able to lock its legs into

the stone.

MARISHA: Beyond that, if that fails-- And then I
cast, for right now I'll just do Wall of Stone,

I'm just burning through all my spells as a
demonstration. And I bring up two pillows. Two

pillows?

ASHLEY: And then we all lay down and go to sleep!

SAM: Pillow fight!

(laughter)

LIAM: Billy Mays here for the Ashari Tribe!

MATT: "Goose down. Unexpected tactic."

LAURA: I like how we're walking through all of
these ideas and none of it's going to work when we

get there.

MARISHA: I blast up two pillars, right next to
Kevdak.

MATT: Not next to Kevdak. You mean Zanror?

MARISHA: Sorry, sorry. Sorry, the other big
goliath leader.

SAM: Whatever your name is.

MATT: That one, ohmygod.

MARISHA: And trap him in.

MATT: Okay, you (rumbles). Warra's pushed to the
side as the stone shoots up.

MARISHA: (whispers) Sorry, Warra, sorry. So-- I
know! Did not mean to lay a hand.

MATT: "All right, your point is made. We've got
two others who can do similar magic as you, maybe

"not the same level, but--"

MARISHA: Fantastic.

MATT: "Want us to put them at your aid?"

MARISHA: That would be wonderful. Beyond that, in
prep, I can dig a trench, hidden underground

around our trap, so that whenever we're ready,
your army can bust out of the ground.

LAURA: Surprise.

MARISHA: Without being seen.

MATT: "Without being seen, what, are we going to
bury my men?"

LAURA: Very lightly.

MARISHA: Pretty much. To be fair, I actually did
it on a trap to kill like eight of your men on the

way in and it worked phenomenally. So you should
trust me.

LAURA: It was pretty great.

MARISHA: It worked well.

MATT: "I think we'll take our chances above
ground, please."

LAURA: The only thing I'm worried about, Zanror,
is that if this ugly beast flies in and sees, oh,

how many of your men do you have?

MATT: "Currently we're sitting at 25 total,
including myself."

LAURA: 25 men standing around. Don't you think
it's going to be a little curious as to why all of

the sudden-- all of a sudden? There's a large
number of people around, that's never been there

before?

MATT: "You're asking me this, our plan was to go
inside while it was out. But if you want us there,

"let's figure out a way to hide, then. I don't
think my men are going to like to be

"underground."

MARISHA: It'll be very spacious. It'll be a nice
big tunnel, it's not going to feel like you're

buried alive.

MATT: "And what, they just leap out one by
one through an opening?"

LAURA: It'll be super shallow. Just enough that
they can come on up and out.

MARISHA: It'll be awesome, it will look like
they're coming out of the grave. They'll look like

badasses!

MATT: "I don't think that's going to really get a
dragon shaking in its claws, y'know?" (sighs)

LAURA: Not a lot is going to get a dragon shaking
in its claws.

MATT: "Let me talk to my men. We'll see what we
can do, we can muster as far as these chains go."

LAURA: A surprise attack is going to be one of our
best shots at grounding this thing.

MATT: "So, am I to tell my men we're 
going to bury them in the ground?"

MARISHA: Not bury them, that sounds so dramatic
when you say it like that, I mean I'm going to

make a tunnel, there'll be stairs, they'll be able
to walk freely, they'll have air holes, it'll be

just like when you moved through the sewers to not
be seen.

MATT: "I'll talk to them. I certainly hope your
magic stone-shaping is as strong as it is. At the

"very first moment that dragon looks like it's
going to go ahead and break free, we're weapons

"out. You do understand that."

MARISHA: We would appreciate that, actually.

MATT: "Okay."

LAURA: We want it to land, then we strike. We just
want it to hit the fucking ground.

MATT: "Okay. And what's our bait? You say you have
some gold to give?"

LAURA: Some gold to give.

MATT: "Try for Kevdak's corpse-- I hope that's
enough. I'll see what else we've got left in our

"coffers." He turns around and him and Warra walk
away, a couple of the men join them and they--

MARISHA: Oh, I actually-- I go over to Warra real
quick before she walks away? Just to her side, and

say, you look well. Have the Seers told you if it's
going to be a boy or a girl yet?

MATT: "Not yet. But if we survive this, I have a
feeling I'll know. The strength and glory of this

"fight will confirm."

MARISHA: If you survive this fight, I'm pretty
sure you'll bear the strongest child anyone has

ever known.

LAURA: The stallion that mounts the world, for
sure.

LIAM: There it is, there it is. It's in all our
heads.

MATT: Nothing ever goes wrong when that title
comes up.

(laughter)

MATT: What could possibly go wrong? She looks over
her shoulder at Zanror as he's walking away and

goes, "Could be." And she just turns and starts
walking with him.

LAURA: So we really need to dig a trench.

MARISHA: Yeah. I'm going to start digging a
trench.

LAURA: Around the area that the treasure is going
to be.

MARISHA: How far is it?

MATT: You guys scope it out, it's northwest of the
town, you saw it on the way in, and it's very easy

to make out at this point because there have been
large claw-marks in the ground, there are broken

pieces of wood, there's a shattered cart, there's
some barrels that are partially destroyed to the

side, there's a little bit of leftover ends and
pieces that fell out of whatever it picked up as

it took off as well as a smattering of copper,
silver, and gold pieces that you rummaged through

before when you first came to the town. But
there's a definitive place that you recognize

where this drop point is, it's out in the open in
the field, there's going to be a couple of nearby

rocks, a handful of trees, but they're all very
sparse and spread apart. Other than that, it's

just open field, so.

MARISHA: How far away is the nearest tree
cluster?

MATT: To that, it's about-- tree cluster? I mean,
most of the trees that are here are singular,

there's two trees that are within ten feet of each
other and that's maybe 80 feet away from it.

MARISHA: Okay.

LAURA: When you dig the trench, can I use my
perception and my ranger ability to camouflage

things and make sure that from above the ground,
from the height that the dragon will be looking at

it, that it's not seeable at all? I don't want
this trap to be seen-- I guess I should wait until

we find out if Percy finishes his trap and gets it
in place to do all of this.

MATT: You can do that if you'd like to. Yeah, as
far as the camouflage ability--

LAURA: I know Hide in Plain Sight is for myself,
but I feel like as a ranger I'd be able to hide

tracks and stuff.

MATT: I'll say we can certainly give you--

LAURA: We can use a little Dust of Tracelessness
or something?

MATT: We can make something function a little bit
there, you know, illusion magic is also helpful.

If you have anything illusion-based that could
even just help tidy up before. You do know that

dragons are very perceptive creatures and are
very-- are not very trusting either. They're

paranoid. That is part of their narcissism, so
anything you can use, whether it be illusion,

camouflage, anything to hide any sort of possible
chance of it not trusting this scenario you're

going to want to do, otherwise this thing might
fly overhead and notice one thing and be like ah,

peace! So. Be warned. Miss Dragon Specialist.

LIAM: That was all knowledge in your head.

LAURA: I know all of these things! All of a
sudden!

MARISHA: Did he just say dragons have really high
perception so don't fuck with anything and make it

look weird?

LAURA: No, he said if we're going to do it, make
sure it is hidden.

MARISHA: Right. Make it look real good. Right.

TRAVIS: Can I go up to some of the guards
outside and say, oi. Where do you keep your

prisoners, hostages, meat shields?

MATT: I mean, there are no real guards of Westruun
anymore, most of the guards that--

TRAVIS: I meant like the goliath, the Herd
guards.

MATT: Yeah, the Herd guards. They're a little
sparse right now, there aren't any towards the

outside of town, most of them are gathering
towards the center as the rest of the folks are

leaving the town, finding their way out south of
Westruun to be away from the battle. But you do

find in the Margrave center, similar area to where
they were talking to Zanror, there are gathering

warriors that are getting their weapons ready,
some of them armoring up to just see how easily

they can get it on, some of them might even sleep
in their armaments, it's not a huge thing. But as

you approach and ask this question, one of them
turns to you and goes, "Well, there's-- the Iron

"Stocks is where we generally keep our prisoners.
The ones who were before and the few we did keep,

"well, those we chained up or executed, but there
were a few that were thrown in there."

TRAVIS: Are there any still in there? Or are they
all clear?

MATT: "Oh, there's plenty of prisoners still in
there, we didn't touch the prison, mostly."

TRAVIS: Hm. All right, thank you. (whispers) What
was Reginald's daughter's name?

LAURA: I don't know if I wrote it down.

SAM: I wrote it down.

TRAVIS: I'd like to make my way over to the Iron
Stocks.

MATT: Okay. And you've been here before, you know
the Iron Stocks, although you weren't sure if it

was being used as still a prison. And seemed
loosely, just throwing a handful of people in for

use later on that never quite came to fruition.

MARISHA: I don't know her name either. We might
not have known a name.

TRAVIS: I thought we knew her name. Reginald's
daughter's name?

MATT: Do you remember her name?

TRAVIS: Are you asking me?

MARISHA: What Sam wrote, he just wrote down
'Reginald's daughter'.

SAM: Maybe he never told us her name.

MATT: (laughs) All right, you make your way to the
Iron Stocks. And it is currently unguarded, there

is nobody there, the Herd has lost interest in it,
the door's partially ajar, and as you walk inside

you can already smell the place just reeks of
refuse and decay. It looks like everything left in

the middle of a workday. There are still ledgers
open on the front desk, you can see what looks to

be a small group of-- a barracks-type scenario to
the left of the entrance that is just completely

abandoned and looks like some cases are left open,
scattering various keepsakes and bottles that are

shattered on the ground, a lot of people left either
to go into battle to defend against the dragon, to

lose their life in it, or just to get the hell out
of Dodge.

TRAVIS: Can I walk up to the ledger and pretend to
read it?

MATT: Yeah. You pick it up and leaf through for a
few pages, lotta great squiggles.

TRAVIS: Yep.

MATT: Some pretty handwriting, you can tell--

TRAVIS: Any squiggles that look familiar?

MATT: Um, no. No, none that-- I mean, some look
familiar, some are more rounded--

TRAVIS: Oh, this poor bastard right here, yep, I
remember him, good chap. Hello? Is anyone in here?

MATT: There's a slight pause. Then you hear a
voice echo from the right side of the room, down a

hall just through the stone, you can barely make
it out because the distance it's at, because

you're hearing the echo protrude from quite a
distance, but a voice just says, "Hey! Hey! In

"here! Need food please!"

TRAVIS: Oh, shit. So I go in that direction. Open
the door and try and make my way that way.

MATT: You charge down the hallway and there are a
number of cells that are immediately here. Some of

them are open and abandoned entirely, there are a
few that you look off to the side, looks like a

few individuals just passed away inside the cell.
You come to a set of stairs that leads down into

the next subterranean region and you hear the
voice again, much closer, be like, "Hey! Hey! I

"hear your footsteps!" And you see a hand reaching
out from behind some of the bars.

TRAVIS: Put your hand back inside.

MATT: The hand retracts as you look over.

TRAVIS: That's a good lad. What's your name?
Before I approach. Still far enough away.

MATT: "Ah. Orn. Orn Finch at your service. Been in
here far too long and very thirsty. I will be

"happily at your service, fair muscled man, should
you see fit to relinquish me from these binds."

And you look at him, he looks like a lowly beggar,
longish tattered hair, wearing just general

tattered and soiled clothing, no shoes, feet look
blistered and black.

TRAVIS: Ugh. I'm going to call you Orn Blackfoot.

MATT: "Blackfoot it is, Orn Blackfoot at your
service, if you could just--"

TRAVIS: My name is Lord Grog.

MATT: "Lord. It is my pleasure." And he reaches
through and grasps your hand, his fingers are bony

and thin, and he takes it and shakes it with what
little strength he has.

TRAVIS: Man, you are looking a little rispy-- Pour
out a little ale into a goblet, and I give him a

goblet of ale.

MATT: He snatches it from you and slurps into it,
extremely thirsty.

TRAVIS: Ah-ah, not too fast, not too fast, don't
want to get the bubbles. And I reach into the Bag

of Holding and I have a dry food ration. I have
three left. Now I have two. And I give him some

dried food ration.

MATT: He takes it and eagerly starts jamming it
into his mouth. As he's eating, he's not even

talking at you, this is just sheer hunger, the
need to survive has taken over and he's just

cramming it in there, choking a couple of times,
keeping himself okay.

TRAVIS: Pace yourself, lad. Tell me, why are you
in here, Orn Blackfoot?

MATT: "Ah, well, this is-- everyone just started
yelling and they abandoned us all here. It's been

"terrible hearing the moans and screams going
silent. I thought they abandoned us all."

TRAVIS: No, they did, to be clear. They totally
abandoned you. You are really the only person I

know of that's in here. All the other mates around
you, they're either sleeping or, you know.

MATT: "I appreciate the food and drink, you've
certainly done--" At which point a voice comes

from about two cells over behind you that goes--
"Did I hear food and drink?"

TRAVIS: Fuck.

MATT: "Food-- food and drink, please. Please."

TRAVIS: Orn, did you kill all those dried food
rations just now, did you just--

MATT: You see him very discreetly pocket some in
his robe. "Oh, everything you gave me is gone, I'm

"sorry, friend."

TRAVIS: Man, what an appetite. Do you mind
regurgitating a little like a momma bird into my hand?

MATT: "What?"

TRAVIS: Never mind. Orn, don't, heh, don't move.
And I walk over to see where the other voice is

coming from.

MATT: Okay. As you turn around the way, there is
the next set of bars, you see behind there a man

in his forties, also extremely thin and gaunt,
reddish long thin beard, long unkempt brownish red

hair that is just crimped up around the base of
it, like it's just gone almost into dreadlock

territory from how long he's been in there and
mistreated. You can see dried blood at the corner

of his mouth. He looks up at you. "Sir, if you
would be s-- Grog?" And the moment of recognition

hits you, this is Abjurist Noja, whom you
previously--

(yelling)

TRAVIS: Abjurist is a very powerful-- he has
knowledge of the arcane and stuff, right, he was--

LAURA: He was the guy who saved us! He saved us
when the white dragon came to Westruun.

LIAM: I was frozen in ice. That guy!

TRAVIS: I found us Boba Fett, sweet!

MATT: He looks pretty wrecked right now.

LAURA: Oh shit, give him food, Grog!

TRAVIS: Abjurist Nosebleed, hold on real quick,
look. And I take the other, the second to last dry

food ration, I give him that, and I give him a
thing of ale, I'm like, I'm sorry, it's really dry.

MATT: "Thank you, friend, thank you very much."

TRAVIS: Oh, yeah, you're very welcome! Hold on. Is
there anybody else in this hallway before I give

away my last bit of food?

MATT: You hear two voices simultaneously down the
end of the hallway come in, one of which is a very

weak female voice, the other is a very loud kind
of-- "Hey, bring me food this way, please!" The

other one is like, "Please, I ask of you, I'm
starving." And you see these two hands come out of

the two cells in the distance.

TRAVIS: Right, I'm going to pick a number between
one and ten. Ready? Go.

MATT: There's an awkward pause. "Three?" "Seven!
Definitely seven!"

TRAVIS: I lean over to Abjurist Noja, I say, I
actually don't know any numbers, so. Y'know what,

we're going to deliberate and we'll be with you in
just a moment. (whispers) Abjurist, how old y--,

why are you in here, who put you in here?

MATT: "I've only been in here for about a week.
Got in an altercation in my store when these

"brutes started walking in. Threw me in here,
didn't even let me take my spellbook."

TRAVIS: Oh, that is a crime. I love b-- I can't
even say it. Hold on, stay right there, I'll get

you out-- And I walk back to Orn Blackfoot, I go,
look, hey, so I gave you food, can you do

anything, like, special?

MATT: "What?"

TRAVIS: Like, can you make your hands turn to
flame, can you disappear, are you really good with

a bow and arrow?

MATT: "No! No." And he reaches out and grabbing at
your clothes though and starts pulling you--

TRAVIS: Hey! Orn, chill!

MATT: "But I have friends in many places, though.
I can, I can get you things. I can make

"connections--"

TRAVIS: Yeah, but most of the people in here are
dead, right, like they're probably not--

MATT: "Not even here, Emon! I can get you anything
you need from Emon. I can get you from Stillben.

"And Lansway, just name it and get me out of here
and I can--"

TRAVIS: How long has it been since you've been to
Emon?

MATT: "Few months?"

TRAVIS: You got any loved ones there?

MATT: "Why?"

TRAVIS: I don't know, just asking, like, do you
want me to take a note from you to them or

something, you know.

MATT: "No, if you can release me, I'd be more than
happy to take it myself if you don't mind."

TRAVIS: Yeah, no, I'm still deliberating, sorry.
Enjoy the food that you snuck in your jacket

pocket. And I go back towards the front desk area.
And I try and find any-- is there a lever on the

wall to release the cells or can I look for keys?

MATT: You-- make an investigation check.

TRAVIS: Fuck me.

MATT: Yes.

TRAVIS: Your fate is in excellent hands. Oh shit,
you're not dead!

(laughter)

TRAVIS: Minus two for a 17!

MATT: Ah! All righty. So. After spending the good
part of an hour or so clamoring through, just

throwing bookshelves over and (crashing) taking
the desk and actually throwing it onto its back

and pulling drawers out, this is Grog's method of
investigation here, you're just--

TRAVIS: Yeah, just trying some splinters of wood
in the locks just in case.

MATT: Yeah, yeah. You break off a few forks in
some locks.

TRAVIS: (laughs) Forks, yeah.

MATT: In practice, yeah, whatever looks small
enough and should fit, though it doesn't, but you

make it fit. And it doesn't help. You do
eventually find in one of the cells, closed and

locked as you look by, there is one person in
guard armor, in Westruun guard armor, that is in

the cell. Not moving.

TRAVIS: Hey. Hey, you. I kick him in the back a
bit.

MATT: No movement.

TRAVIS: I kick him harder.

MATT: No movement.

TRAVIS: I look down the hallway. I back up a few
steps. And I really run up and kick him really hard.

MATT: He just lurches over onto the side. Not
moving.

TRAVIS: Yeah, you're dead. Can I pat him down?

MATT: Yeah, you reach in and you can smell the
decay starting to set in. And as you get close you

can reach through the bars and see him, the actual
area is closed and the door appears to be locked,

and inspecting the body very quickly you can see
that he was stabbed multiple times from behind and

probably left in here to bleed out.

TRAVIS: Low perception.

MATT: But you do find on him what appears to be a
ring of keys. Not directly on his body, but

underneath the corpse, like he was-- you gather
best you can, someone probably grabbed it, got

their way out, used that moment to stab him and
escape.

TRAVIS: Nice! I take the keys and I jauntily
run by Orn Blackfoot and I go to Abjurist-- Hey,

do you know who those other two voices are at the
end of the hallway? Like, did you have anyone with

you when you got put in here?

MATT: "No, no one with me. Although-- been plenty
of angry discussion from that dwarven fellow down

"the way."

TRAVIS: Yeah, he's got a really rough accent.

MATT: "I can hear you!"

TRAVIS: Shit. My voice carries. Are you all right
here for one minute? I have to go perform an

interview real fast.

MATT: "I'm all right." And he just finishes eating
the little bit of the ration that you gave him,

like dried meats and bread.

TRAVIS: All right, sit tight. All right, you two,
put both your hands outside the cell where I can

see them.

MATT: They both put their hands out. The dwarven
man you can see puts his hand out, the skin is

very wrinkled and you can see the varicose veins
on it, the arm hair that you see on the dwarven

arm is white, like bright white. The female hand
comes out is thin, but the skin looks a little

softer and younger.

TRAVIS: Female elven, or is this female--

LIAM: The daughter.

TRAVIS: Who said three?

MATT: At this point, the dwarf voice goes,
(incoherent semi-cursing).

TRAVIS: I know, look, it's always lucky number
three, right? That's what they say. Who says that?

MATT: "Racist little-- peh!" And the arms just
withdraw, and the woman, "That's me, that's me."

TRAVIS: Oh good. Hi. You look nice.

MATT: Look down, you see a young woman, maybe in
her late teens, early twenties, long brown hair,

tangled, covering one half of her face. You can
see the edges of her lips are cracked from just

dryness and lack of moisture. She's wearing, both
of them actually are wearing just these long,

simple cloth drape-over robes that are just,
y'know, for any prisoners in here that need to not

be wearing their normal clothing.

TRAVIS: I've got three other goblets left, can I
both give them a goblet and some ale, just to wet

their lips and get a drink in?

MATT: They eagerly take it and begin scarfing it
down, the dwarf's like, "Oh! That's nothing!" You

can look at the dwarf now, he's elderly,
crotchety, half-blind, one clouded eye, but for

being a man who's been stuck in prison and slowly
dying, he's got this wry grin on him at all times.

TRAVIS: You're turning away good ale. Looks like
you've seen many a moon.

MATT: "You're telling me that. But no, seriously,
that's like half full. Come on, don't be stingy!"

TRAVIS: I like your gall. And I pour more ale in.

MATT: "That's the ticket!" It's like spilling on
the sides and getting stuck in his bright, bushy

white beard, and each bit that dribbles down, he
goes-- catches it and then pushes it back in, not

wasting a single drop.

TRAVIS: Beautiful. If you don't mind, ladies
first, love, what is your name? Why are you in here?

MATT: "It's Amelia. I was taken because they
were-- the beasts were dealing with an uprising

"from some of us farm folk and, well, they took me
as leverage in the argument. Stopped their--

"stopped their arguing."

TRAVIS: You're-- you're farm folk?

MATT: "Yeah."

TRAVIS: Do you have any family?

MATT: "I do."

TRAVIS: What are their names?

MATT: "There's my father Reginald."

LAURA: Oh no!

TRAVIS: Sorry, I had a bit of split pea soup
that's just disagreeing with me, it's all right. Yep.

MATT: "Are they okay, have you seen them? Have you
seen any of the people out there?"

TRAVIS: No, I-- we should get you out of here,
there's really bad stuff going on outside, we're

trying to get everyone out of the town.

MATT: And you hear a voice down the way say,
"Everyone out of the town? That sounds like a

"great plan." And the dwarf behind you is like,
"Well then, get us out! I'm sick of this cell!"

TRAVIS: Yeah, just a minute, hold on. And so like.
Hold on. Can I try the keys on Amelia's cell?

MATT: Mm-hmm. You go through the keyring, which
probably has a good 40 or so different keys on it.

TRAVIS: Shit.

MATT: And so you go through one, two, three, four,
yeah.

LIAM: Six, six, six.

MATT: (laughs) And what would be the late teens,
and for what to you seems like forever, one key

does (squeaking) in the lock and it opens. She,
who's been like sitting down the whole time,

stands up weakly and grabs the bars and pulls
herself up and waits for you to let her through if

she does, just being patient.

TRAVIS: Amelia, if you would, please stay with me.
Funny, I believe I heard of a man named Reginald.

Very brave. Not sure where he is, but we're going
to get you out of the city, just stay put for a

moment.

MATT: "Okay."

TRAVIS: All right, you, you salty bastard, what's
your name?

MATT: "Old Davin. What's your name?"

TRAVIS: Lord Grog. Emphasis on the Lord.

MATT: "Lord Grog."

TRAVIS: Yeah.

MATT: "Lord of?"

TRAVIS: The Vales of Strongjaw.

MATT: "I'll take it, that's fine. Get me out,
please?"

TRAVIS: Right. Oh, keys. Can I take the keyring
and can I pry the metal keyring-- is it like one

solid piece or is it the kind that I could maybe
bend it open?

MATT: I mean, it is one solid piece that has been
looped twice, but it has been-- the iron itself

has been bent around itself to make it nice and
tight, form-fit on one end. Go ahead and make a

strength check.

TRAVIS: 26.

MATT: Ping. (laughs) Like, you were preparing
yourself for a full pull, and with but a minor

twitch of your muscles it just bends open.

TRAVIS: Can I take half the keys and give them to
Amelia and say, love, would you go and let out the

kind gentleman with the reddish beard and the
little blood on his mouth named Abjurist, would

you try these keys and see if his cell will open?
Not yet for Mr. Blackfoot across the way.

MATT: "Right. I will, I will." She rushes off and
starts fumbling through the keys, and you hear in

the distance her making her way through the keys
as--

TRAVIS: I take the other half and start trying to
get Da-- what was his name?

MATT: Old Davin.

TRAVIS: Old, I like old.

LAURA: Have we met Old Davin?

MATT: You have not met Old Davin, no.

TRAVIS: Okay. Davin, what did you get put in here
for?

MATT: "Right if I know! Got real drunk and woke up
in here, everyone started screaming and running

"away, and I'm like ahh, run away you pansies, and
they did, ran away, they never came back. Some

"packed fire, but not a problem now." And yes, the
one snowblind eye doesn't move at all, the other

one glances around, that one's completely stuck in
a forward position.

TRAVIS: Is that magic?

MATT: "I mean, certainly gets the ladies."

TRAVIS: Yeah, it does.

MATT: "But no, it's a reminder to not, well, to
not mess with your people."

TRAVIS: Oh. Well, I'm sorry to hear that. But they
do make you look very young.

MATT: "Much worse, say I."

TRAVIS: Now if we let you out of here, right,
which we're actually in the process of doing, what

is your weapon of choice?

MATT: "Oh, oh." And he thinks to himself for a
moment. "I would have to say my weapon of choice

"would be Bloodvine ale. Aye."

TRAVIS: Bloodvine ale?

MATT: "Aye, if we're picking poison, that's my
favorite."

TRAVIS: Yeah, no, my-- He's a dwarf, right?

MATT: Yeah.

TRAVIS: Yeah. Obviously we are brothers of the
beard. Like, to fight with, right?

MATT: "Oh, that kills, eh?"

TRAVIS: Yeah, stab, poke, enchant, whatever.

MATT: "Once upon a time I was quite a duelist, so
if you got something pointy and prickling I can

"spear 'em with the best of them."

TRAVIS: I do have a Greatsword of Frenzy, but it's
a two-handed weapon.

MATT: "Ah, that's not my preference."

TRAVIS: I do also have one regular, just a regular
longsword. About the best I have.

MATT: "Yeah, that'll do, certainly, I'll take a
longsword."

TRAVIS: All right, so. Have I got the door open
yet?

MATT: Not yet. But at this time there's an awkward
pause and now you're like, don't have any more

conversation. But you still have to finish the--
about a minute later, he's sitting there going,

"Come on, come on, come on." Eventually-- tink!--
it opens up. "Yes!" And he pushes it open as you

pull it open.

TRAVIS: Before I give you this sword--

MATT: "Aye?"

TRAVIS: --are you up for the fight of your life?

MATT: "Yes?"

TRAVIS: Can I insight check him?

MATT: Yes, you may.

TRAVIS: This is going to go really well. Eight!
Nine!

LIAM: Go Tarv, go Tarv.

MATT: He seems a little--

SAM: Scottish.

(laughter)

MATT: He seems a little malnourished, and a little
confused.

TRAVIS: Right.

MATT: But nothing sets you off as untrustworthy.

TRAVIS: Look, your expression says a lot. What if
I put an excellent meal in your belly, sharpened

that sword some more, would you like to fight for
some glory come the morrow?

MATT: "Sure. Why not?"

TRAVIS: That's what I thought. If you would go
join Amelia, I have to get my good friend Abjurist

Noja out of his cell and then we're going to go
have a meeting, because there's going to be a big

feast tonight, it's going to be delicious.

MATT: "Oh, great, I'll be there for that, aye.
Where's it happening?"

TRAVIS: You know, it's very secret, yep. Secret
location, TBD.

MATT: "Right, right. I'll wait for you." And he
walks out, taking the keys from you as he runs off

toward Amelia.

TRAVIS: Now, has she gotten Abjurist out?

MATT: At this point, yeah, Noja has
stepped out of the cell and is putting an arm on

her, you see he's actually having a hard time
standing and she's helping support him, even

though she's having a hard time standing.

(Skype noise)

MATT: There goes Taliesin.

TRAVIS: Man, I know a lot of people that are going
to be really, really happy to see you.

MATT: "Ah. Really? Well, I'm very happy to see
these people, anybody really, that're not the

"inside of this blasted prison." (coughs)

(Skype rings)

LIAM: Oh, get him, get him!

LAURA: Quick, answer it!

LIAM: Stupid tinkerer.

SAM: I'm trying, I'm trying!

LIAM: Percival and his technology.

MATT: There we go. Welcome back.

LAURA: Hi Percy.

TALIESIN: Hi.

TRAVIS: Could I ask you a question? So I have this
new axe, right, it's really nice. I got it off the

leader of goliaths, real prick. It's really strong
and I've known about it for years, there's

nothing, like, funny about-- Actually, if I give
this to you, would you just tell me if you, like,

hear anything?

MATT: "Ah, they took my spellbook when they threw
me in here."

TRAVIS: Oh.

MATT: "If we could find that, maybe I can help
you."

TRAVIS: That makes sense.

MATT: "Otherwise, I'm out of tricks, friend,
sorry."

TRAVIS: All right. I turn around to Orn Blackfoot
and I'm like, "All right, mate. Last chance. Why

"should I let you out?"

MATT: "Because I can be a good friend and help you
out. I can get you money and women and travel

"anywhere you wish."

TRAVIS: I've done all three of those things more
than most men do in three lifetimes.

MATT: "And you can have a fourth! Please, just let
me out of here."

TRAVIS: I'm thinking of a number between one and
three.

SAM: He's not.

MATT: "Two."

TRAVIS: Shit.

(laughter)

TRAVIS: That's like only one of a couple that I
know. All right. You get to come out.

MATT: "Ah, wonderful. Thank you, thank you, thank
you. And I'm a man of my word, don't you worry."

TRAVIS: Can I insight check if he's a man of his
word?

MATT: Go for it.

TRAVIS: Roll better. Shit fuck balls ass. Three.

MATT: Three. Seems legit.

(laughter)

TRAVIS: You have a face that is truly trustworthy.
And I start looking for the key to his cell.

MATT: Okay. At this point, you've run through the
ring enough, you can go ahead and take it from Old

Davin. Over time you eventually get him free, and
as soon as you do, he stretches, cracks his back a

bit. "All right. Thank you kindly. So. Let's be
off." And he charges up next to Noja and then

breezes past them and you guys all exit the
outside of the Iron Stocks.

LAURA: Look for Noja's book, look for Noja's
book.

TRAVIS: Oh, yeah, well. Noja, Noja, is there a
location where your spellbook was last? (belches)

MATT: "They took it from me when they arrested me.
I don't know where they would have put it."

TRAVIS: Yeah, well, goliaths are awfully fond of
books. Let's go find out, shall we? And we go back

towards where I guess everybody last was.

MATT: Okay. On the way there, Noja's like, "I do
have one of my older spellbooks, wouldn't have all

"of my materials, but that would be back at my shop
if we ever have a chance to stop by."

TRAVIS: Well, we could go there now if you'd
like.

MATT: "Certainly."

TRAVIS: How far is it from here? I forget, it's
been a few years.

MATT: "Oh, it's about-- just due east of where the
temples are, about 25, 30 minutes up that way."

TRAVIS: Hold that thought. I grab my earring and I
say, can anybody hear me?

SAM: Can we?

MATT: At this point, yeah, the Stocks aren't too
far. Whoever's--

TALIESIN: Yes.

LAURA: What's up, Grog?

TRAVIS: Right, so. What if I told you I found
somebody's name that rhymes with Daburish Koja?

LIAM: You found Dabney Coleman?

LAURA: Dabdrist Cojo?

TRAVIS: It's Abjurist Noja.

ALL: Oh!

MARISHA: Man, I didn't realize 'til now how many
people we actually know whose name rhymes with that.

TRAVIS: Yeah, we're like really important.

MARISHA: Yeah, we know a lot of people.

TRAVIS: So I'm going to take him to find his
spellbook, because I feel like he could be a great--

TALIESIN: I don't recall this person.

TRAVIS: You don't?

MARISHA: Weren't you with us, Percy?

MATT: Yeah, Percy met him.

TALIESIN: Was I?

MARISHA: Yeah, remember the guy who saved us at
the first Winter's Crest festival?

TALIESIN: Oh yes, no, he was quite lovely.

MARISHA: Yeah, he's very nice.

TRAVIS: Yeah, I found him. I'm going to get him a
spellbook. Does anybody want to come with, or are

you all good?

MARISHA: I'm about to dig a trench, so I'll pass.

LIAM: Keyleth, where are you right now?

MARISHA: Heading northeast towards, northwest,
northwest. Sorry. It's noon, it's hard to tell in

the sky right now. Northwest.

LAURA: Are you with us, Pike?

ASHLEY: Yeah, yeah.

LAURA: Pike's with us.

ASHLEY: I'm done attuning?

MATT: Yeah, the attunement takes about an hour or
so, half an hour to an hour.

ASHLEY: Yeah, I just found you guys, just hanging
out.

LAURA: Hey, what's up. You want to help us clear
some stuff?

ASHLEY: You need some help? Yeah, let me help you,
I'm so strong.

SAM: Um, Grog, I can come with you, Grog, if you
need some help.

TRAVIS: Yes. The cube is always welcome.

LIAM: My. Goodness. Gracious.

TRAVIS: Please. It's more like a Coke can. Okay.
Um.

LIAM: A what?

TRAVIS: What? So, Scanlan, if you want to come
meet us, we're over by the Iron thing. How would I

tell him where we are?

MATT: Iron Stocks, you can describe it to him and
eventually he'll find his way there.

TRAVIS: I'm over by this thing balalalala.

SAM: Excellent description, I'm on my way.

MATT: (laughs) And you've been to the town before,
you guys have spent some time in Westruun, so you

know the basics around. So you manage to meet up
with these fellas and you make your way northward

into the outskirts of Noja's shop. Noja's shop is
untouched by the battle, it seems, still stands.

MARISHA: Oh, shit. Really?

MATT: He walks up and the door's open and looks
inside and just sighs heavily, as the interior of

this place has been picked clean.

MARISHA: Ah, son of a fucking-- looters!

SAM: Noja, were there any hidden compartments or
secret safes where you kept the good stuff?

MATT: "Well. Follow me." And he heads towards the
back of the shop, heads into a room in the side

which contains his bed and his personal setup.
That door's kicked in, there was a lock on it, the

lock's still hanging as part of the door
contraption as the actual door was just kicked

inward and the wood splintered and left open. He
steps inside, feels above the doorway. There's a

panel of wood that he pulls aside and brings out.
There is a singular book, where he pulls it out

and sighs, blows dust off it. "Ah, this is a bit
rudimentary for what I require, but it's

"something, it's better than nothing." Puts it
aside, manages to find some pieces of his clothing

that have been tossed onto the floor as a heap or,
you know, raiding the room and gets out of his

prison robes and puts them over that to just go
ahead and not be as tattered as he looked. He does

pull what looks like a small jug from it and sets
that aside, and he looks around his room, (sighs)

"I guess let's see if there's anything in the shop
that still remains." Steps around the way. Oof.

All right. Yeah, most everything of worth appears
to have been taken or broken.

LAURA: Search around, help him search!

TRAVIS: Yeah, is there anything we can help you
find that you're looking for?

MATT: "Anything intact, really."

TRAVIS: Yeah, can we help him look for any vials,
or--

MATT: Make an investigation check.

TRAVIS: Better. 17.

SAM: 16.

MATT: 16, okay. Looking around, most everything is
ruined, destroyed, or missing, however you do find

what looks to be two unspoiled, undestroyed vials
that were part of a display set that has been

tossed over the side. Most of the fluid contained
in these vials, like corks have been left open,

glass and crystal have been shattered, and the
contents had just stained the floor and dried over

time into little sticky pools of different colors.
You do find two, one of which is a yellowish fluid

that's streaked with black swirls, and there is
one that it's like a clear liquid that has a-- the

liquid itself fills the vial and then shrinks down
to a tiny bead and then expands again to fill the

vial, like a very, very slow heartbeat. Those are
the two that you find.

TRAVIS: What?

MARISHA: Yellow with black swirls, and then a
clear potion that--

SAM: Oh, he'll just tell us, I assume. Sir, we're
about to embark on a deadly adventure to try to

clear this town so that you can once again live
here safely. Might we trouble you to borrow these

potions if they can be in some way helpful to us?

MATT: "You've done me great service by getting me
out of that hellhole. You are welcome to take

"these with you for now. I guess I have to start
from scratch..."

SAM: Do you know what they are?

MATT: "Oh, yes, I'm sorry, I'm sorry." And he
takes the vials and looks at them. "Ah, this is a

"Potion of Diminution. It shrinks you to a smaller
size."

SAM: Oh, I could be small! Oh, wait.

MATT: "It only lasts for a few hours, depending,
the magic isn't perfect, but it does make you

"smaller. This other one, this vial contains a
liquid that will make you quite speedier. It will

"increase your metabolism for a short time, the
world around you seems to slow, it's quite

"effective."

SAM: Thank you so, so much.

TRAVIS: Yeah actually, have you ever seen this
shrinking potion work, like, how small does

something get?

MATT: "Pretty small. Like, if on your size--" And he
makes a shape of about that big.

SAM: So teeny-tiny.

MATT: "For you, yes. For you, you'd be about his
size."

TRAVIS: That would be the best thing ever. Now
that you've found-- I'm sorry, go ahead.

SAM: No no no. This is most helpful. Do you know
anywhere also around here where we might pick up

some chains, hooks, spears, javelins?

MATT: "Ah, those are not my forte, my apologies."

SAM: All right.

MARISHA: Should've took those from the prison.

MATT: "I mean, check a general goods store,
perhaps?"

SAM: Oh no, this is so helpful, thank you, let me
go get those.

MATT: So here are your potions.

TRAVIS: That book that you got, it's not your
favorite, right, the one that was hidden above the door?

MATT: "No, no, but it'll do, at least. Do you wish
me to inspect that weapon for you?"

TRAVIS: Yeah, would you mind? I've never done that
before, but the last one I had talked to me.

MATT: "That's... unsettling. That's very
unsettling."

TRAVIS: Yeah, among other things.

MATT: The dwarf and the woman are still waiting at
the door, they've picked through things and

they're finding bits of broken glass and over time
they can't find anything else. He takes the hour

to rest and regains, after some quick preparation,
the use of at least his Identify spell. Takes the

axe, holds it for a moment, chants some
incantation that you don't understand. There's a

brief glow on the weapon, and around the outskirts
of his fingers, a brief glow around his temples.

As it fades, he goes, "Hm. Well, if what you worry
about is the presence of some sort of sentience, I

"can assure you, you need not worry. This is merely
a tool, and a powerful one at that." And he begins

to tell you what it does, which is exactly what
you already know after attunement.

TRAVIS: No long card coming? (laughs)

MATT: No.

TRAVIS: Son of a bitch. Thank you, Abjurist, you
are as wise as you are. Old.

MARISHA: Old? (laughs)

MATT: "I'm only 48, but thank you."

TRAVIS: That's lost on me. Do you need anything
else?

SAM: Oh, oi, oi, I was just-- I'm enthralled by
these potions, they're fantastic, and I'm

enthralled and so happy that we met you again and
all that. I totally remembered who you were.

(laughter)

MATT: "It's good to see that you're all doing
fine, considering the circumstances. Stay safe.

"I'll pick up what pieces I can."

SAM: Should you get-- should we tell him to get
out of the city or fight with us?

TRAVIS: Well, I was going to ask, you do know what
is beset upon this city, right? The horrible

calamity that's coming?

MATT: "I saw the dragon tear through, yes."

SAM: We aim to finish the dragon, maybe even
tomorrow, and make Westruun free once again. Would

you have any interest in aiding us in this fight,
or are you past the point of putting up a brave

battle?

MATT: And you see him standing there, even just
standing here this time, his knees are wobbling a

bit, and he goes, "I'm afraid I wouldn't be of
much aid at this moment without my proper

"spellbook. I have a few child's treats at my
disposal." And he sifts through a few pages and he

seems to-- the book looks like it's pretty old,
like probably his training manual when he first

began to study as a practitioner of the magical
arts. "I don't know how much use I'd be,

"unfortunately."

TRAVIS: The day's still young. What say we give,
like, a solid effort to finding your bigger books,

and then if you can't find it and you can lend no
aid to us, we'll make sure you find yourself

safely on your way?

MATT: "All right. All right, fair enough. Well
come, let us look. Perhaps we should give another

"once-over of the rather seemingly destroyed
interior of that prison."

TRAVIS: Yeah.

MATT: Looks like Amelia and Old Davin have nothing
else better to do, they begin to aid you for a

bit, although Amelia is eager, and mentions the
possibility of going and checking in on the

farmsteads on the outside of town.

MARISHA: Yeah. About that.

MATT: Orn? Orn Blackfoot? Gone.

MARISHA: Yeah, figured that much.

MATT: He has peaced.

TRAVIS: He left.

MATT: Yeah. You guys take a moment, and when you
start deciding what to do, and you look around and

he's just gone.

SAM: I thought you had him.

TRAVIS: I thought you had him. I clearly said when
you came up, watch the guy with the black feet.

What'd you do?

SAM: I was watching you, you have disgusting black
feet. You walk around barefoot, you're

disgusting.

TRAVIS: I really can't argue with that.

(laughter)

TRAVIS: Well. Whatever. I saved a life, go me.
I'll take it later. Yeah, so can we go back to the

prison, not to take away from everything else, and
maybe look for chains, like some hooks, maybe some

broken bars?

MATT: Yeah. The two of you guys, make one more
investigation check, this'll signify the next few

hours of looking for the things you want.

LAURA: Oh god, roll really good.

SAM: 22.

TRAVIS: 19.

MATT: Between the two of you, working into and
past dusk, you manage to acquire quite a number of

chains. It's funny, a prison seems to have a lot
at their disposal. They have a queue of chains

that are used of various lengths, some of them may
have to be put together to make the length of

which you're looking for, but between ramshackle
manacles to just lengths of chain that are used to

opening gates and used to seal elements of the
subterranean portion of this prison, you manage to

acquire quite a bit. You do, towards the end of
the evening, manage to find partially destroyed

remnants of Noja's spellbook. He seems a little
disappointed as soon as he sees the state it's in,

a lot of the pages have been burnt and torn out of
these--

TRAVIS: I am sorry.

MATT: "Ah, it's all right, there are some here
that are of use to me. And if I can be of any

"assistance tomorrow in this fray, hopefully at a
distance-- How big is this dragon, you said?"

TRAVIS: Oh, it's like seven feet.

MATT: "Oh, well then I can definitely be of help
there, not a worry, all right. I'll prepare myself

"best I can."

TRAVIS: Yeah. We'll make sure, we'll keep you on
the outsides with those that are not, you know,

can't take a good walloping.

SAM: Do you have any healing potions or anything,
or I mean, I'm sorry, healing spells?

MATT: "That's not my specialty, I fear, and the
potions I had are now soaking in the floorboards

"of my humble shop."

TRAVIS: Not that I would understand, but could you
tell us what your specialty is?

MATT: "Abjuration, of course. That's the school of
magic of which my--" (laughs)

SAM: I'm familiar with that.

TRAVIS: Abjur--yeah. Mm-hmm. No idea what that
means.

LIAM: Like Claymation.

TRAVIS: Oh, like puppets. I'm a big fan of
puppets.

SAM: All right, well, we'll get some rest, try to
put the pieces of your place back together.

MATT: "I will. Come to me when the time is ready
to face this fiend, this foul creature, and I'm

"happy to help."

SAM: Good night.

TRAVIS: Oh yeah, we should probably make him a
part of the feast.

SAM: Oh. All right.

TRAVIS: We'll come get you later tonight.

MATT: "All right."

LIAM: I'm going to track down the women after
talking to them over the earring.

MATT: Okay.

LIAM: Straight from Percival, once I catch sight
of them, can I talk to you for a minute?

MARISHA: Sure.

LIAM: Just a minute, I know you're busy. Um.

LAURA: She's super busy, brother!

LIAM: Yeah, two minutes. Two minutes. Um.

LAURA: So busy.

LIAM: Thanks, Stubbs. You're way more powerful
than I am, and I don't know what I'm going to--

(Skype noise)

SAM: God dammit.

LIAM: What's that sound?

MARISHA: So many noises happening.

LIAM: You're going to be doing a lot more damage
than I am tomorrow, it's not like I'm going to run

up and stab the thing in the back. I feel like
you're probably going to be too busy to be using

Fassbender--

MARISHA: Yeah, do you want Fassbender? I was
actually going to offer him to you, 'cause I feel

like you might--

LIAM: I think I want to be of use, so yeah.

MARISHA: I'm pretty sure you don't have to worry
about that.

LAURA: (gagging)

LIAM: So it just goes on the head, then how does
it work, what do you, what do I talk to it or do I

think it or what do I do?

MARISHA: So you give it a command, it takes your
full concentration to give it a command, and then

once you do that it will enact that plan until
it's complete or until you tell it otherwise.

LIAM: All right.

MARISHA: And if you wanted to cast a Slow spell,
just, you have to focus and tell it to do that.

LIAM: Okay. Do I say like, slow?

MARISHA: You know, I don't know. Just wing it. I
kept talking to him like it was a person and I

don't think that's necessarily the way to go.

LIAM: Maybe I'll prac-- where did you park him?

MARISHA: It's still in Scanlan's mansion.

LIAM: Oh.

LAURA: Is that still there?

SAM: Yes?

MATT: Well, based on the time that spell was cast,
the 24-hour duration has expired. All things in

the mansion have been jettisoned from the
doorway.

LAURA: Including your grandad!

MARISHA: So he's in Wilhand's house, with
Wilhand.

LIAM: Great, well, I'll take that.

MARISHA: Yeah. Hopefully Wilhand's watching over
him right now, actually.

SAM: It might have destroyed the house.

MARISHA: It might've destroyed Wilhand's house.
Yeah.

LIAM: Kiki.

MARISHA: Yes?

(Skype noises)

LIAM: What is that?

MARISHA: This is the weirdest field.

(Taliesin makes noises on Skype)

(laughter)

LIAM: Percy. Tinker quietly, please.

(Taliesin makes louder noises on Skype)

(laughter)

LIAM: I think he's eating popcorn, or maybe
opening a butterscotch candy in the theater.

TALIESIN: I can't even see you guys, are you
like?

LAURA: Oh, he went away! Aw, this is just not--

LIAM: Okay, really quickly.

LAURA: Okay. Well, at least he started.

MARISHA: Yes? This seems to happen all the time,
every time we try to talk to each other. I don't

think I've really, continue, continue. It's hard
to have a conversa--

TALIESIN: Hi.

MATT: Continue, please.

LIAM: Hello, yeah, Percival, I'll talk to you in a
minute, all right?

MARISHA: Shut up, Percy. Thank you.

LIAM: Ah. I've been confused. I am confused. But.

And I take her by the hand.

LIAM: It wasn't fair, last week. It wasn't fair to
you. And I'm sorry.

MARISHA: What are you talking about?

LIAM: In your room, in your room. Me leaving
wasn't--

MARISHA: When you left me, right--

LIAM: --wasn't fair.

MARISHA: Yeah, no, that I remember. Yeah, that.
Yeah. Yeah yeah yeah.

LIAM: That's it. I'm sorry.

MARISHA: I'm sorry if I dropped that on you, and
put any more undue stress, that's not what I want--

LIAM: This is awful, all of it is awful.

MARISHA: This is awful. Yeah, no, this is pretty
bad. You know, I've actually been wanting to talk

to you. I wasn't entirely planning on now. I know
you've been struggling. I know you feel like

you're drowning, and I'm sorry that the Raven
Queen chose you, but she did choose you. You know,

as druids, I was raised to have an interesting
perspective on the gods. We are taught that nature

is the one true powerful force. I have yet to see
a god control the sunrise and the sunset, so

therefore it's hard for me to sometimes have the
same faith in these gods. Personally, I believe

that just because you're immortal doesn't make you
infallible. These gods can be great ambassadors of

their virtues and what they represent, or they can
be horrible disgraces to their domains. And just

because some self-proclaimed person or deity
decides that they want control? Doesn't mean that

they have to have control over me.

Now, this does not mean that I do not respect the
gods and the power that they wield, but, I mean,

for the love of Sarenrae, we have seen Pike do
many a powerful thing. So, therefore, I do not

respect the gods any more than I respect the
living people who are standing beside me at this

moment. So I've also been coming to terms with the
fact that it seems that, whether we like it or

not, we are going to have to employ their
services. Looks like we're going to have to be

working with them in some way or another, myself
included, if we are going to overcome this.

So maybe you should start rethinking the way you
look at your relationship to the Raven Queen.

Maybe this can be a fine partnership. A fine
endeavor to do with her, and then once we save the

world and we retire and some other young prodigies
come forward to save the world again, then we can

thank her for her services and move on. I don't
think we'll always need her. I don't think you

will always need her. And, keep in mind, the one
true thing that gives these gods their power are

their worshipers. So I guess I'll let you choose
what you want to be. And I walk off to catch up

with the ladies.

MATT: All right.

LAURA: Did you guys make out? Was it really fun?
Lots of making out there?

MARISHA: Vax. Vex. Vex.

LAURA: I understand you have him on your mind. You
can't get our names straight.

MARISHA: You know, I was talking to him, so-- Hey.
I love you a whole lot.

LAURA: Do you still think you're talking to my
brother?

MARISHA: I know who I'm talking to.

LIAM: Really similar.

SAM: She's the ranger.

ASHLEY: Did you ask him if he's going to help us?

MARISHA: Who? Vax? Oh.

ASHLEY: Vax. Is he going to help dig the trench?

LAURA: I turn around and see him. Is he just
standing there?

MATT: Just standing there lost in thought, yeah.

LAURA: Um, hey.

LIAM: What?

LAURA: Hey, what are you doing? Are you coming to
help us, or are you just standing in the middle--

LIAM: Yeah, we gotta kill a dragon tomorrow. We
gotta kill a dragon. What do you need?

LAURA: Do you want to help build, I don't know, a
trench? Set a trap?

LIAM: I mean, I'm really weak, but I think I can
use a shovel.

LAURA: What time is it? We haven't even started
digging the trench yet? What fucking time is it?

MARISHA: It'll take me like an hour. It's fine.
What time is it?

MATT: For you guys, at this point, it'd probably
be mid-afternoon, late afternoon. Percy. I need

you to go ahead and make three tinkering checks
for me, if you don't mind.

SAM: Oh, shit.

MATT: The first one is using your intelligence
modifier.

TALIESIN: That's intelligence modifier plus
proficiency bonus plus tinkering?

MATT: Well, proficiency bonus is what you get with
tinkering.

TALIESIN: Yeah. 24.

(cheering)

MATT: All right, so, initial designs and
describing with your lackeys, for lack of a better

term, that are helping you develop these springs,
you manage to explain, lay out, and develop the

proper materials, the process, and they seem to
acknowledge and understand what you're trying to

do, and you guys begin the work. Second check is
going to be with your dexterity modifier.

TALIESIN: Oh yeah, baby.

SAM: No one can help him on these things?

LAURA: We're not there.

TALIESIN: 22.

MATT: You spend the better part of the day helping
them take the metal, strengthen it, bind it,

pulling it into the springs that are required. You
complete one, you get partway through the second

one. Make a final check if you don't mind.

TRAVIS: With dex?

MATT: This is also with dex, yeah.

LAURA: Come on.

TALIESIN: That's 23.

MATT: 23?

TALIESIN: Yeah, it's the dexterity, right?

MATT: Yeah.

TALIESIN: So yeah, that's right, 23.

MATT: 23. As the evening comes into about ten or
11 o'clock at night, after hours of aching work,

sweat beads dripping down the foreheads of the
three of you, forcing the furnace to work

overtime. The room's heat and darkness eventually
almost puts you to a point of exhaustion and

passing out. However, you do manage to complete
the springs. They seem to be functional, the

structure of your trap is set. We shall see on the
morrow if it is as functional as you hope it is.

You do take a point of exhaustion through the work
that will consist throughout the next day.

TALIESIN: Okay. What does a point of exhaustion
do?

MATT: Disadvantage on ability checks. So,
essentially, any skill checks or ability checks

you make-- not attacks or saves, but ability
checks you make for the next 24 hours will be at

disadvantage.

LAURA: Did he work all the way through the night?

MATT: No, this is just the physical activity
involved in getting it done in that short period

of time.

TALIESIN: Just double-checking, because I have no
brain currently, dice roll, dex modifier,

proficiency bonus?

MATT: What?

TALIESIN: Just because I have no brain, dex
modifier, proficiency bonus, dice roll?

MATT: Correct.

TALIESIN: Okay, good.

MATT: You're good, you got it. As you guys find
yourselves resting for tomorrow's trap incursion

and hopeful defeat of Umbrasyl, we will take a
break for the rest of you and come back here.

LAURA: Oh, god! There's more we have to do!

SAM: It's okay, we'll do it during the break.

MATT: We'll come back in. We need a pee break.
Quick one, guys.

[break]

MATT: And welcome back. So, as you're preparing
for this, what else do you guys need to do before

the morrow?

MARISHA: I dig a trench.

MATT: All right, so you dig the trench.

MARISHA: I want it to be far away to where there's
a tunnel and then make a circle around it.

LAURA: We need to get Fassbender into the middle
where the treasure's going to be.

LIAM: I walk Fassbender out and I lay him down on
his back, face-up.

MARISHA: We have to do some stage-setting here. We
have to set the scene.

MATT: Okay, as a note, when you return to
Willhand's house, Fassbender and Willhand were

both ejected from the doorway. Fassbender doesn't
fit in that large room and wrecked part of the

staircase from underneath but is fine. As soon as
you acknowledge Fassbender to start moving,

Fassbender, who has been inert this entire time,
since left there for the evening before, takes a

step and the area where the crack that you sealed
earlier reopens. It looks like there is a minimal

magical effect that was more of a cosmetic effect
in the healing, but being a construct, it does not

actually heal damage from it.

MARISHA: Okay. Can I go ahead and take this
time to do--

SAM: You're not there.

MARISHA: Oh, I'm not there yet? Oh no, I'm
building a tunnel. You're getting Fassbender.

Never mind.

LIAM: Yeah, I'm walking Fassbender out to where
Keyleth is.

MATT: Okay. (stomping) Fassbender follows you out
to that area of the town. As night has come now,

the sun has gone, you guys are working in
darkness. What are you guys doing?

ASHLEY: Vex, can I have one of your arrows? I want
to make it real special.

LAURA: You're speaking my language.

ASHLEY: Okay, so I grab one of her arrows and I
cast Glyph of Warding on one of her arrows.

LAURA: How many arrows can you do that do?

ASHLEY: I think just one.

SAM: Matt's checking his e-mail.

MATT: Within an object that can be closed, such as
a book, scroll, or treasure chest. So yeah, it

would have to be on something that, like a doorway
or--

MARISHA: Like a treasure chest? If-- can you cast
it in like a barrel that he's going to break open?

ASHLEY: Okay.

LAURA: Thanks. I really enjoyed the idea of that.

ASHLEY: I thought it was going to work. It was
going to be real cool.

MATT: So, you decide what triggers the glyph when
you cast the spell. For glyphs inscribed in a

surface, the most typical triggers include
touching or standing on the glyph, removing

another object covering the glyph, approaching
within a certain distance of the glyph, so you

could place this in theory on the ground near
where the treasure's being left and give it the

specific trigger for it to go off.

LAURA: It can be maybe in a chest above
Fassbender, 'cause he's going to be buried, and

then it can be triggered maybe when the dragon
lifts it up.

MARISHA: What exactly does it do, the Glyph of
Warding?

MATT: You can choose explosive runes--

ASHLEY: An explosive rune.

MARISHA: Oh, so it, (explosion). That's cool.

MATT: 5d8 acid damage, cold damage, fire, or
lightning or thunder damage. Your choice.

Everything within a 20-foot-sphere radius around
it.

LAURA: 20 feet is really big. Oh my god! You know
what you could do? You could make a trigger if he

gets a certain height off the ground, and that
way if he's over 20 feet above the ground, then it

triggers and he's the only thing that would get
affected.

MATT: Well, it triggers as a glyph, so whatever's
near the glyph would be affected.

ASHLEY: So can we hide it in the loot?

MATT: You can, you can definitely choose some sort
of a small chest or the ground underneath the loot

if you want to.

ASHLEY: Okay. I'll find something in the loot,
some little chest or something that I can put it in.

MATT: Okay, and what's your trigger?

ASHLEY: When he gets-- if he starts to fly away.

MATT: Okay. So if a creature-- the trigger would
be, if a creature--

LIAM: Pulls the glyph up?

MATT: That's up to you. What would you like the
trigger to be?

SAM: Specific.

ASHLEY: If he removes something on top of it. But
also if he grabbed it.

LAURA: What if it gets above a certain feet in the
air? Can it trigger then?

MATT: You can say if a creature flies above it at
a certain height it can trigger. I'll give you

that, yeah.

ASHLEY: Okay. So if it flies--

MATT: If it flies 20 feet above it?

LAURA: I thought it meant if the glyph lifted in
the air.

MATT: We'll make that one of the triggers if you
want it to be lifted. So, if the glyph is lifted

by a creature--

ASHLEY: So it can't be if he just touches it?

MATT: You could do that, yeah.

LAURA: But it might be better if he lands and then
we spring the trap. It could be a thing, if he

tries to leave it explodes.

ASHLEY: If he tries to leave.

MATT: Okay. So, if the object is lifted off the
ground, it triggers.

ASHLEY: Yeah. Even like this much? If it's just
moved.

MATT: Okay, and you're doing explosive rune. What
type of damage?

ASHLEY: I want to do cold damage.

LAURA: Would I know, is a black dragon-- does it
have any weaknesses?

MATT: You would know, with your knowledge and
specialization, it does not have any weaknesses.

LAURA: It has no weaknesses.

MATT: It is immune to acid damage, of course. But
that is the only real information you have.

TRAVIS: Make it acid damage.

(laughter)

ASHLEY: I'm going to go cold damage.

MATT: Cold damage. All righty.

LAURA: What about Fassbender? Is he immune to any
damage?

MARISHA: I'm pretty sure he's immune to most kinds
of damage.

LIAM: No, it's hitting and slicing. I'll check.

ASHLEY: I'm going to cast it at fifth level.

MATT: Fifth level? All right. That brings it to
7d8 cold damage. And what's your spell DC?

ASHLEY: 17.

MARISHA: If we lose Fassbender--

LIAM: He's expendable. Hopefully he survives. If
not, good cause.

LAURA: Can we fuse some chains into Fassbender so
that he can be attached to the ground?

MARISHA: I can. Can I do that? Right now?

MATT: Using what?

MARISHA: I want to take and cast a Stone Shape
spell, and then I want to open and almost make him

a chain harness that's embedded into his waist?
And then while I'm at it, can I patch him up?

MATT: Stone Shape is instantaneous. So whatever
you want to do, it happens immediately. So,

essentially, you could, with one casting of Stone
Shape, seal the wound. With another casting of it

you could then go ahead and have the chains--

LAURA: Ready to go (squishing).

MATT: Yeah, just embed them in and have it seal.
How many chains are you embedding in it?

LAURA: Two big ones?

MATT: Two big chains? Okay. So you get two of the
heaviest chains that you can find, which you

probably got from the prison.

MARISHA: All right, well, how about this? Vax,
Vex, grab a chain.

LAURA: All right. These are heavy.

MARISHA: Okay, ready? On my go.

LAURA: Wait, where are we putting it?

MARISHA: I'm going to shove them in his abdomen.
Okay? I'm going to make a spot and just--

LAURA: You take left. I'll take right.

LIAM: Okay.

MARISHA: Ready?

LIAM: Yeah.

MATT: Okay. As she does that, suddenly the chest
wound opens up into these two big cavities. You

take the chain edges and put them inside as they
seal around them. There's now these two giant,

heavy, door-holding chains that are now dangling
for about 70 feet on each end from his abdomen.

LAURA: Where do we attach these chains to? The
ground?

LIAM: One to the ground. Put the other one in a
goliath's hands with a harpoon or a hook on the

other end. Snag our prey, and then we have a
Fassbender hanging from the bottom of a dragon.

MARISHA: Okay.

MATT: You can find some metallic hooks just
through general construction materials in the town

if you want to.

LIAM: I think we should do ten or 15 feet to the
ground of chain and ten or 15 feet to the dragon,

so that it's, thunk, and he's caught on the
ground.

LAURA: Just ten.

LIAM: Yeah?

MARISHA: Okay.

LIAM: Yeah, we'll sever the chains with Grog's
muscles. We need to get 'em the right distance.

MATT: About how long?

LIAM: Ten feet into the ground, which we can--

MARISHA: Do it right now. Ready? I'm going to do
another Stone Shape spell into the ground.

MATT: You have to go around and find an area,
because a lot of it's dirt. You have to find an

area that has actual stonework in the ground.
Otherwise, it's just earth that's pulling it. Go

ahead and roll a survival check.

MARISHA: Not bad. What's my survival? 24.

MATT: 24, okay. You take some time. It's about 60
feet out from where the drop point is, is the

nearest piece of near-surface stone. It's about 15
feet beneath the surface, but it is viable.

MARISHA: Negative. I will cast--

LAURA: Why can't it be 15 feet below the surface?

LIAM: But he's going to go up like a kite now
because it's going 60 feet all the way over there,

where stone is.

MARISHA: I'm going to burn-- I did that earlier,
but I'm going to burn my last 5th-level spell to

do Transmute Rock again?

MATT: Okay.

MARISHA: So you said there was dirt? All right,
let's dig a little bit of a hole real quick. So

we dig a hole ten feet down.

MATT: Okay.

MARISHA: Put the chain in there. Cover it back up.
Transmute. Turn it into rock.

MATT: Okay, and with that, the earth-- Okay, what
is the radius of that one there? Let me see.

SAM: We have to cover this up.

LIAM: With dirt?

MARISHA: And treasure.

MATT: Transmute Rock-- 40-foot cube. You turn that
into a solid fucking subterranean block of stone.

All righty. Now you have Fassbender just there,
stuck to the ground with the chain at its side.

LIAM: Fassbender, lie down. Lie down?

MARISHA: Can I take my last little bit of Stone
Shape residual energy and take that mustache Vax

drew on--

MATT: Stone Shape does not--

MARISHA: And make the mustache permanent that he
drew on with charcoal?

MATT: Sure, I'll let that slide. With the remnants
of the spell magic fading, the now-lying-down

Fassbender staring up with his vacant sunken
blue-glowing eyes towards the night sky and the

stars above, your hand reaches across the face,
and with that suddenly the--

MARISHA: I like this, I want to keep it, there we
go.

MATT: --the once-charcoaled curly mustache recedes
into the face, carved permanently to his face.

MARISHA: You look much better now, Fassbender.
High-five.

LIAM: Give Keyleth a very soft high-five, please.

MARISHA: Yeah! Isn't that cool?

MATT: That'll probably bruise tomorrow.

MARISHA: It's okay. It's cool.

LIAM: I quickly take that same charcoal out and I
write in Common on his chest: Conclave or bust.

(laughter)

SAM: I'm going to go to Keyleth and ask if I can
borrow the rod of immovable rodness. How big is it?

MATT: It's like that long. It's like the rung of a
ladder.

SAM: Got it.

MATT: It's got a little button on the side.

SAM: Button on the side? Cool.

TALIESIN: Like a Tron lightbike.

SAM: I love it.

LAURA: When are we going to set the trap that
Percy made?

LIAM: As soon as he finishes it.

MARISHA: Yeah, we should set the stage.

TALIESIN: In theory, it has to be laid down
underneath all the treasure so that it just is

nothing, and then we put everything on top, and
then basically it's set, and then pins get pulled

so that it's set. And you don't disturb shit
again.

MARISHA: Hey Percy, we're ready to fly in the trap
whenever you are.

TALIESIN: Yes, let's do that, gentlemen. Let's
move it. Good work, ladies and gentlemen.

MARISHA: While you guys set the trap, I'm going to
turn into a raven. My job is done here. I'm going

to just go and circle while they're setting the
trap and setting the stage and do patrol and make

sure we're not being watched.

MATT: Okay, make a perception check.

LAURA: Why this creepy music?

SAM: It's random, guys.

ASHLEY: Why is he doing his eyebrows up and down?

LAURA: Because the fucking dragon's going to see
us right now.

MARISHA: 16.

MATT: 16?

MARISHA: No, sorry. 15.

MATT: 15. You circle for a while and keep watch.
So far, nothing seems to have caught your

attention that's out of the ordinary. About half
an hour passes before you see a group of

civilians, along with Percy, wheeling on carts
this large ramshackle construction made of

support beams from houses, metal joints that were
used as basic construction elements, as well as

these large metallic springs on multiple sides
with hooks and elements of a chain-based net that

has been piecemealed together. Eventually you guys
bring it over. You clear out the area.

LAURA: Fassbender will lay on top of the trap.

MATT: Fassbender will lay on top of the trap?

LAURA: Right? He can't lay under the trap.

SAM: Well if it's like a mousetrap, can't he lie
in between it? Taliesin, how does it work?

MARISHA: Let's just keep him right off to the side
because if that trap triggers--

TALIESIN: In theory, he should be able to fit
right at the sides of it, because it's got an

armature spring system. As long as you're not in
the way of the armatures, you should be fine.

MATT: So you set it up and away, laying the sides
down, precariously putting the pins in, holding it

in an open position. You begin to take dirt, dust,
and gathering up the area, trying to hide it to

the best of your ability. Who is in charge of
camouflaging this piece?

MARISHA: Go ranger, go ranger, go!

MATT: Make a survival check.

TRAVIS: "Which dice will I use? There's no way to
choose."

SAM: Can I aid her in this bit of camouflage?

LAURA: You want to sing me some inspiration?

SAM: Can I inspire her?

MATT: Sure, what do you want to sing?

SAM: (singing) R-r-ranger, turn and face the
strange! R-r-ranger, looks like you're going to

have to hide this shit! Time may save me, but I
hope you-- also do--

(laughter)

LAURA: 31.

MATT: 31. You guys take a good portion of the next
hour or so, under her guidance and tutelage,

hiding this entire trap, getting dirt, the top
layer of sand to cover it so it looks like it

hasn't been recently disturbed--

LAURA: Little Dust of Tracelessness.

MATT: Little Dust of Tracelessness to fill in and
smooth out any of the ripples of any possible

passage that has come through. Fassbender has
been--

(crash)

MATT: Killed. Buried beneath the surface, just to
the point where he's pretty much flush with the

ground of where it is. Contraption set, the
objects placed back inside with some of the

barrels and some of the leftover pieces of wood,
the one overturned cart. You go ahead and take the

chest and you place the glyph onto it. It takes a
while to cast that spell, about an hour, but you

complete it without an issue.

LAURA: Make it look like there's treasure on it. I
take some of the gold that we have and--

MATT: Place it onto it?

LAURA: A thin layer, where it looks like a lot of
gold but it's really just a thin layer of gold

over top of rocks.

ASHLEY: If it's a chest, can we put some coins
sticking out of it? So it looks like it's full?

MATT: You can do that. It does cost you about 200
gold worth of components to do this glyph, so mark

off that from your personal gold supply.

LAURA: Grog.

TRAVIS: Yeah?

LAURA: Question. We sort of thought maybe we could
use Kevdak as a tribute, like we sacrificed him to

the great shitty Umbrasyl. Is that his name?

MATT: Umbrasyl, yes.

LAURA: But it doesn't quite have the same effect
without his head. Do you still have that head? In

fact, I think I might have the head. Did I put it
in my bag of cold?

MATT: You did, I believe. You gave it to her to
put in there?

LAURA: Would that be all right with you, Grog?

TRAVIS: No.

LAURA: Don't you want to kill this dragon, Grog?

TRAVIS: I want that head.

LAURA: I don't have the head. I only have the
gross bear tattoo off Kevdak.

TRAVIS: That's right, I put the flayed skin. I
don't have the head.

LAURA: Grog, I can tell when you're lying.

TRAVIS: I don't have the head.

LAURA: You're lying. Grog, can we maybe-- you'll
be able to get it back, because we're going to

kill this dragon and then you can just go and pick
up the head and keep it again in your Bag of Holding.

TRAVIS: What's the head for?

LAURA: So we can make it seem like we sacrificed
Kevdak to the dragon.

TRAVIS: What if you sacrifice me?

LAURA: Well, what?

TRAVIS: Yeah, use me as bait!

SAM: We'd have to chop off your head.

MARISHA: No, we could just tie him to a chair or
something.

TRAVIS: Or I could just put my hands behind my
back.

MARISHA: Make it look-- wrap some rope to make it
look like it's loosely tied.

SAM: What if he bites and kills you?

TRAVIS: Well, I don't know, but it's better live
bait than dead, right? At least when you fish.

SAM: Nope.

TRAVIS: Pretty sure that's true.

SAM: Nope.

LAURA: Do you want to be bait, Grog?

TRAVIS: Yeah.

MARISHA: Does that sound fun to you, or--

LAURA: There's exploding things around here. Are
you sure you want to be in this area?

TRAVIS: Yeah.

ASHLEY: No, you don't.

TRAVIS: (laughs) No, I don't. I will give you the
head of Kevdak.

MARISHA: Oh my gosh, it took a look from Pike!

SAM: Wow, that's a powerful look.

TRAVIS: I want it back.

ASHLEY: You'll get it back.

TRAVIS: You better promise.

LAURA: I promise.

TRAVIS: All right. You can have it.

ASHLEY: With a bow on it. You'll get it back.

TRAVIS: I don't want a bow on it! He didn't ever
wear a bow!

ASHLEY: No, I'm just saying you'll get it back.

TRAVIS: I take the skull and roll it to her feet.
It's still got flesh on it, right?

MATT: Yeah, it's a little soft, but it works. So
you have the head of Kevdak at your disposal. Trap

is set. Percy, who's pulling the pins, what's the
trigger mechanism?

TALIESIN: The trigger mechanism is any weight
shift. It's the same as a mousetrap. It's like you

put pressure on it, you take pressure off of it,
doesn't matter. As long as there's immediate

weight shift in the platform, where the booty is,
it just goes snap.

MATT: Okay. So very carefully and very
precariously, you all have set this trap as the

final element, aside from the camouflage. Is there
anything else you would like to add with this very

sensitive large situation being finished?

SAM: Where are we hiding?

LAURA: We're going to hide in the trenches, yes?

MARISHA: It depends on where you want to hide, I
guess. (caws)

TALIESIN: As long as I'm within range for my guns,
I'm going to hide way off in the treeline.

MARISHA: Yeah, there were two trees that were 80
feet? Or 60?

MATT: Which, Ryan, can I get the box of tree
materials? Thank you.

SAM: You know, that box of trees that you have.

ASHLEY: Are we near any structures or any houses?

MATT: No, this is outside of town. It's an open
field other than a handful of trees. Just to give

you guys perspective right here, this is the setup
right now. This is the central area where most

things have been dropped. There are pieces here.
If you want to put it into perspective here, the

glyph lies over in this area. Most of the
treasure's been placed in that area. The trap

we'll say is set about in that area, with the
central piece being the triggering mechanism.

LAURA: And the trench is all around that?

MATT: The trenches are down in this area. Oh, now
you say the trenches, are you saying they're

covered or not?

LAURA: They are covered.

MATT: So they're tunnels. They're not trenches.
Where is the opening for the tunnel? Where would

you like it to be?

MARISHA: Far away.

LAURA: There, on the other side?

MATT: This side over here?

TRAVIS: Make it 50 feet at the most.

MARISHA: I want it to be more than that, I'd like
it to be 100 feet away.

TRAVIS: You want them to get there in one turn,
right?

LAURA: You want to be able to get there right away
on surprise attack, spring right out of the

ground as soon as that trap triggers.

MARISHA: No.

TALIESIN: In theory, if the trap is sprung it'll
make enough ruckus that anyone in those trenches

should hear it.

MATT: Right, but it's more about the proximity of
the exit to the trenches.

MARISHA: Yeah, what I'm thinking is I've got a
circle that I've carved around it. And then

there's like a tunnel that shoots off this way and
there's an entrance that they can walk in and get

into their places.

MATT: You want them to just burst out, then?

MARISHA: I've made it really thin like I did
before, carved it nice and thin--

MATT: Okay. So the entrance is back here, then.

MARISHA: I don't know what that means.

TRAVIS: I thought we were all filing out of one
hole.

MATT: That's what I was getting at beforehand. The
intent is for them to push up and out?

MARISHA: Unless you guys think it would be
better?

LAURA: No, I feel like they've gotta burst out, yeah.

TRAVIS: I was confused.

MARISHA: It's going to be cool, like night of the
living dead-style! Orcs coming out of the ground!

In my mind, it's really awesome.

SAM: In your mind, so many things--

MARISHA: So many things.

MATT: There we go. All right. We have entrenched
areas in this vicinity with you around it. What's

the last things you need to prepare before the
evening is done?

LAURA: We need to have a feast.

SAM: Heroes' Feast.

LIAM: I have a couple of questions. One, so I
asked this outside but I just want to make sure.

It says in the rogue section that longsword is
something that I'm proficient in, but there's a

rule somewhere that I can't find that says I can't
use that for sneak attack? On page 95, it says I'm

proficient in longswords.

MATT: Correct.

LIAM: But somewhere else that I'm unaware of-- no
surprise, motherfucker?

MATT: The attack must use a finesse or ranged
weapon.

LIAM: So it's not a finesse weapon.

MATT: A longsword, I believe, is strength.

TALIESIN: No, wait! This longsword was being used
as a finesse weapon.

MARISHA: It has been used?

TALIESIN: We had this discussion at one point. We
decided that this longsword was a finesse weapon.

Or it could be used as a finesse weapon.

SAM: Aloha.

TALIESIN: Aloha!

LIAM: In Hawaii, the longsword is a finesse
weapon.

TALIESIN: There's a beautiful view out this
window.

LIAM: Just want to know in advance.

MATT: I would say-- stretching it thin. We had
agreed it was a finesse weapon for use, meaning as

a dex-based modifier for you to use in combat
specifically. When did this discussion happen, I'm

trying to recall?

TALIESIN: This happened when we were doing sword
tricks. We were discussing whether or not I could

actually use a sword. And what that would be like.
Because we were having the conversation about

whether you should take strength with the sword.
I've obviously been using it as a dex-based sword,

but-- I don't remember if that was specifically
for me, or--

SAM: This is a tough decision. But you know, it's
not a tough decision to subscribe to Loot Crate.

MATT: I would say because it is part of the intent
of the weapon that the longsword, while it may be

circumstantially used as a dex-based weapon for
that purpose, it is out of your realm of expertise

when it comes to using the sneak attack ability.
It would not be able to sneak attack.

LIAM: Lovely. I'm going to take off my Boots of
Haste and my cloak. See if anyone else wants it,

and I'm going to start attuning-- Can you use
this?

LAURA: What is it?

LIAM: Circlet. Would you be able to control
Fassbender?

LAURA: Instead of shooting arrows?

LIAM: No, Keyleth said you just say "zap," and he
just does it until you tell him to stop.

MARISHA: Yeah, it takes your concentration, so it
takes--

MATT: Well, it takes an action to--

MARISHA: I'm trying to speak in character, all
right?

TALIESIN: What do your Boots of Haste do and what
does your cloak do, out of curiosity?

LIAM: I want to see how much I'm giving up here.
Haste will let you double your speed, you'll be

able to do one more thing when you're doing
things. Scanlan showed me some sort of potion.

MARISHA: Yeah, I'm assuming that was a Potion of
Haste.

SAM: I gave the Potion of Haste to Grog. We both
found these two potions. Grog has the Potion of

Haste if anyone else desperately needs it, and I
certainly don't need to be any smaller, so I've

given the potion of reduction? Reducement?

MATT: Diminution.

SAM: Diminution? To good old Vax here.

LIAM: It's funny, because part of my idea was to
go in with you. But I know that you have to do it

to folk of your own size, but if I were little
Vax, I could go with you.

LAURA: Why can't you keep your boots on for that?

MARISHA: Honestly, spellcasters, it's not as
beneficial for us to have Haste.

LIAM: That's true, but I'm wondering if anyone
wants Fassbender. If I'm going in, I'm not going

to be able to concentrate on that.

MARISHA: Well, depends on when you're going in.

SAM: You don't know. Give it to Vex.

MARISHA: If you focus on Fassbender and tell him
to just attack or to cast Slow, he will do that

until that dragon is dead. He will just continue
without you having to focus on him.

LIAM: I know. I just don't want to miss a shot to
go into the belly of the beast with my little

buddy here.

MARISHA: That's so trite.

SAM: We were born to do this!

LAURA: Does it have to be attuned?

MATT: Yes. So if you already have three objects
attuned, you'd have to take one off.

LAURA: No, I can't wear the circlet, dude.

LIAM: All right, I'll wear it.

TALIESIN: I could, definitely. If you could take
the Haste Potion then I might take the boots,

because speed would not be a terrible thing for me
to have because then I get to shoot more.

LIAM: I'm going to take this sword and I'm going
to leave the Deathwalker's Ward on, that can't

come off anymore, and the circlet, so the boots
are up for borrowing and the Displacer Cloak is up

for borrowing. Displacer Cloak makes you very hard
to hit.

LAURA: That's good.

LIAM: And the haste will Haste you.

TALIESIN: What does the cloak do, again?

MATT: Disadvantage on physical attacks against
you. Until you get hit, and then once you get hit,

it fails to work for a turn.

TRAVIS: I might take that.

MARISHA: The cloak?

TRAVIS: Yeah. Oh my god, I'm going to take the
belt off.

SAM: You're going to lose your beard!

TRAVIS: You don't know that! This shit's in there
tight. I take the Belt of Dwarvenkind, and I put

it in the Bag of Holding. I put the Displacer
Cloak on.

MATT: You will be losing 26 hit points to your
maximum hit points.

TRAVIS: What? Wait! Really?

MATT: Your constitution-- or no, it's plus two, so
you'd be losing 13 hit points on your max hit points.

TRAVIS: Never mind, no. Nope.

MATT: Because your constitution will go down
without it.

LAURA: I can take off my Bracers of Archery, too,
and put something on--

MARISHA: What do those do?

LAURA: They just give me a plus two to damage
rolls.

LIAM: You're wearing a cloak, so if you wear the
boots, you can click them and you've got more

movement.

LAURA: All right. Give me the boots. I'm putting
the boots on.

MATT: Boots of Haste?

MARISHA: Then I'll take the cloak, I guess. I'm
going to take off my spell slot ring. And I put my

goodie but my oldie circlet on.

SAM: Let's have a feast! Let's have a feast!

MATT: You guys prepare for the evening. You make
your way back to town. Where are you having your feast?

SAM: Isn't there a central place that we killed
Kevdak at?

MARISHA: The mayor's? The big mansion.

SAM: Whatever that place is called.

MARISHA: The Margrave's house.

MATT: All right. So you find your way to the
Margrave's town square there, you can see a number

of the remaining Herd of Storms are sitting around
small fires in the center of the cobblestone.

They're all war-painted up, you can see there's
smears of various dark charcoal and/or crimson

liquid smeared across them in patterns. There is a
brimming tension of coming battle. You may do your

Heroes' Feast if you wish. You can feast up to 12
creatures as part of it.

MARISHA: I can also do a feast if I cast it at
seventh level. But, fuck it, I'm going to sleep,

so it doesn't matter.

SAM: You're going to do two feasts?

MARISHA: Pike and I are both going to cast Heroes'
Feast, so that way we can feast 24 people total.

MATT: All right.

MARISHA: So tell Kevdak. Sorry, fuck! Tell Zanror
his finest warriors, his druids--

LAURA: And Abjurist Noja.

TRAVIS: And Old Davin.

LIAM: And his wife.

MARISHA: So make sure we have Zanror, his wife,
his druids that he mentioned; there were like two

to three druids?

ASHLEY: Are there any magic-users in the room?

TRAVIS: Magic-users or clerics.

MARISHA: Magic-users or clerics.

TRAVIS: Abjurist and Old Davin included.

MATT: So. That being the case. You guys have your
meals in the center of town, summoned forth a

grand Heroes' Feast, two side by side. The chosen
soldiers step up and you all begin to feast upon

your meal. The taste is great but you're all
distracted as the energies of the divine

enchantment of these food items fill your body and
steel you against the coming fear, there is still

the concentration in your eye as you all look off
listlessly in the distance as you finish your

food. It's now just pushing past midnight.

LAURA: We need to sleep.

MATT: Everyone seems to go and find themselves to
rest, a tense sleep before them. Anything else you

wish to do before you go to bed?

MARISHA: Rise at sunrise? Rise at dawn?

TRAVIS: Wait, before we do that, didn't you do
something that gave us an extra amount of hit

points before Kevdak?

ASHLEY: I have Shield of Faith that I can put on
somebody.

LAURA: Will that last for 24 hours?

ASHLEY: It's up to ten minutes. I can do it
tomorrow.

MATT: What you're thinking of is Aid, and that
lasts for eight hours. That's the one that gives

the additional hit points he just mentioned.

SAM: Does the Heroes' Feast give us additional hit
points?

MARISHA: 2d10, and you're immune to poison,
fear--

MATT: As temporary hit points, should mention that
too. It's a separate pool. So 2d10 additional hit

points. You want to roll, Keyleth?

MARISHA: Oh jeez. Don't let me fuck this up. Oh,
that's not bad. 14.

TRAVIS: 14? That's not bad.

MARISHA: 14 from me.

ASHLEY: 12.

MATT: Okay, we'll say the 14 goes to your group,
the 12 goes to the rest of them for the purposes

of this. So that's a separate pool, the 14 hit
points come off first before anything else.

TRAVIS: If it's midnight, I would take Aid, just
in case he comes in the morning, and if he

doesn't, no harm done, you rest up anyway, right?

ASHLEY: Say it one more time.

TRAVIS: I wouldn't mind taking Aid in case he
comes in the morning. If eight hours pass I lose

it anyway, but you rest up again.

ASHLEY: Do you want to have it for the night?

TRAVIS: Yeah, just in case he comes in the
morning.

ASHLEY: Sure.

MARISHA: Well, when do we want to be at the trap?
Dawn?

SAM: At dawn!

LIAM: Just before.

TRAVIS: Yeah, before first light.

LAURA: He comes normally around noon, he said.

MARISHA: So we need to be in our places by 5AM.

ASHLEY: So each target's hit point maximum and
current hit points increase by five for the

duration.

MATT: For each level of the spell, so if you cast
it at higher levels, it's more.

TRAVIS: How high do you want to cast it?

ASHLEY: Cast it at-- fifth is the highest that I
have now.

TRAVIS: Rock out. Go for it.

ASHLEY: Yeah, let's do it.

TRAVIS: Five times five?

ASHLEY: That's, yeah.

SAM: You'll lose it when we wake up.

ASHLEY: Yeah, do you want it for tonight?

TRAVIS: It'll hold for eight hours, right, or, but
I lose it--

MATT: Eight hours, yes, but a long rest is eight
hours, so.

ASHLEY: Yeah, it'll go away. Let's wait.

MARISHA: What time of year is it?

MATT: It's winter cresting into spring--

MARISHA: Okay, so we have long nights right now.

LAURA: We need to go the fuck to sleep.

MARISHA: So let's sleep for a good six hours?

MATT: Six to eight hours.

LAURA: Set our alarm clocks.

MATT: You run on a pretty consistent schedule,
being a ranger.

LIAM: I wait until everyone falls still, and then
I scrabble over to you. Are you awake? Yeah,

you're awake.

MARISHA: Yeah, I'm staring at you.

LIAM: I don't know if it's the food you made or
the fact that we're going to die tomorrow, but I

want to kiss you. And I kiss her. For a while.
Good night.

LAURA: Did you use your tongues?

TRAVIS: You're asleep.

MARISHA: How does she see everything?

LIAM: She's a witch.

MARISHA: She's a witch?

LIAM: She's a witch! Did you see the broom?

MATT: The evening's rest comes to fruition. You
guys wake up as the very distant, dull blues of

first morning light begins to crawl across the
distant mountain ranges. Dead silent is the

morning as the rest of the Herd begins to rouse
and armor up. You hear the gentle clank of metal

against metal as armor and weapons are gathered.
Food is being prepared, cooked, and eaten without

a word being spoken between them.

SAM: I just want to make sure that we're going
around, passing out all the chains, attaching

little hooks and jabby things and grappling
hooks.

LAURA: They know the plan. As soon as he lands on
the ground, everybody springs up and--

MATT: Everyone springs up and hooks him.

SAM: If the trigger for that, they're going to be
underground--

LAURA: The trap should go (snapping).

SAM: If they hear a big clank, that's go.

LAURA: Get up and out. Yeah, regardless.

SAM: Will they know that that's a big clank?

LAURA: I'm sure it'll be pretty loud. There might
also be an explosion.

MATT: All right. With that, Zanror, after having
this discussion at the Margrave's makeshift war

room in the front foyer, agrees. "Not to worry.
I'll make sure the men have known. We'll sharpen

"the hooks sharp enough to dig into dragonhide,
hopefully. We'll hold taut, and the moment that

"creature breaks free, weapons are to fall on it.
Very well." He puts on the rest of his armor.

Everyone's feasted for the morning. We've lost
Taliesin.

SAM: Don't worry. His work is done. He made his
trap good.

MATT: It's like he's on the internet in Hawaii or
somewhere.

SAM: Let's do this.

ASHLEY: Right when I wake up, I am going to try
Divine Intervention.

MATT: Right now?

ASHLEY: Yeah.

MATT: Okay. Hold on just a second.

TRAVIS: Yeah man, it's as good a time as any.

SAM: Does it last for a while?

ASHLEY: I don't know.

LAURA: You used it before.

ASHLEY: No, it's never worked.

LAURA: Yeah, the guy showed up.

ASHLEY: That's something else.

LAURA: Oh really?

ASHLEY: That wasn't intervention.

LAURA: I thought that was Divine Intervention that
made the guy show up.

ASHLEY: It's never worked.

MATT: So Divine Intervention, there are elements
of it that could be preparatory. By the nature of

it, it's more of a sudden prayer of desperation.
It's one of those things where the effects can

range. It can be something that's immediate; it
can be something that's more long. Understanding

that, acknowledge when would be the good time to
use it, whether it be now or later. Depends on

what you're requesting, what you're praying for.

ASHLEY: To come help us kill a dragon. So that.

MATT: Okay. Go ahead and roll a percentile dice,
then.

ASHLEY: What do I have--

MATT: Roll 2d10. You may have a die that has
multiple numbers on it.

ASHLEY: I do. Is this the percentile?

MATT: Yes. Roll that first. What'd you roll?

ASHLEY: What do I need to roll?

MATT: I believe you need to roll under your level.
What did you roll?

ASHLEY: I rolled an 80.

MATT: Yeah.

ASHLEY: It never works!

MATT: So, as you call to Sarenrae, the boundaries
and barriers that keep the gods from directly

interfering with this realm are particularly
strong this morning.

While you feel her glow upon you, her warmth
and protection guiding you to victory, there is

not more within her strength or sphere of
influence she can grant you at this time.

ASHLEY: Dammit. I don't feel her warmth, though.

MATT: What else would you like to do?

ASHLEY: Just go eat.

MATT: All right, so the sun has come up, the hour
hits to eight, nine in the morning, you're looking

at about three hours until the dragon's--

MARISHA: Wait, what time is it?

SAM: It's nine.

MARISHA: Son of a bitch, we overslept.

SAM: No, we've been up since dawn.

MARISHA: I thought we were trying to get in places
before dawn.

SAM: Well, we're moving now. It'll be fine.

MARISHA: I hate it when I oversleep.

MATT: All right. The rest of you and the rest of
the Herd make your way north. The few people that

have stayed behind in the town, the few stalwart,
stand outside as you all march by, and they all

acknowledge, bow their heads, some get down on
their knees and pray for you as you pass. As you

quietly make your way outside of Westruun into the
plains between the dotted treed landscape towards

the drop point. The Herd makes its way under the
tunnel beneath the ground.

LAURA: I cast Pass Without a Trace on all of us.

MATT: All right. So they are now beneath the area.
They are situated. There is the entrance tunnel

off to the side that is currently visible and open
from that portion. Do you wish to close or hide

that tunnel?

MARISHA: Sure.

TRAVIS: I'm going in that tunnel, too.

LIAM: Scanlan. Where do you want to go?

MATT: Grog, you have hidden--

SAM: I don't want to go underground.

LIAM: Are we going in a tree?

SAM: We're going to go up in a tree. Let's go 200
feet away.

ASHLEY: I'm going to run up to Scanlan and I'm
going to cast Death Ward on him.

SAM: What's that do?

TRAVIS: If you drop below zero, you come back to
one.

MATT: Once.

SAM: I don't need it. I'm okay. I know that you're
very worried about me because of our love, but--

MATT: So Scanlan, you have Death Ward on you. You
are now up in this tree here.

SAM: I don't need it. It jinxes me.

ASHLEY: I'm going to cast Protection from Energy,
acid, onto Vax.

MATT: Vax actually already has resistance to acid
because of his armor.

ASHLEY: I'm going to cast it onto Vex.

LAURA: Thanks.

MATT: Okay. So Vex. Currently you have resistance
to acid as long as concentration remains.

MARISHA: I also cast Protection from Energy,
resistance to acid, on Grog.

MATT: Grog, you also have resistance to acid.

MARISHA: I'm going to stay in this cluster of
trees with Scanlan.

MATT: Scanlan over here, okay.

LAURA: I'm going to be up in a tree.

MATT: You're going to be up in the tree.

SAM: Different tree?

LAURA: Yeah.

SAM: I don't think we should all be in the same
tree, guys.

LAURA: No, I'm going to be in a different tree.
Can I use my perception to see how hidden

everything is?

MATT: We'll say up in this tree. You want to be up
in this one over here instead?

LAURA: Yeah, something far.

MATT: There we go. You'll be in this one.

LAURA: I think Percy wanted to be in a tree, too,
at a distance.

MATT: All right. We'll say Percy is over at this
one here, watching his trap hopefully spring.

LIAM: Vax is with Scanlan. Stuck like glue.

MATT: Is Trinket in your necklace?

LAURA: Yes.

MATT: All right. Where do you want to be? Did you
want to cast your Aid spell on anybody before this

happens?

ASHLEY: Oh, yeah. Yes.

SAM: Matt, we're more than 150 feet away, yes?

LAURA and MATT: Some people.

LAURA: Like the trees are 80 feet away from the
stuff.

MATT: This here?

SAM: I would like to be more than 150--

MATT: About 70-ish feet away is right here where
these trees are.

LAURA: Okay.

MATT: You're about 50-ish feet.

ASHLEY: I'm going to cast Aid on Keyleth.

MATT: At what level?

ASHLEY: Fourth.

MATT: That's 15 additional hit points to Keyleth.

MARISHA: Additional or temporary?

MATT: Not temporary, additional. Keyleth, who
else?

ASHLEY: Scanlan, again.

MATT: Scanlan, and--?

SAM: Why don't you do it on yourself?

ASHLEY: Okay, I have low hit points. I'll do it on
myself. 15?

MATT: Yep, 15.

SAM: Keyleth, can you help me?

MATT: Do you cast it again, or are you just happy
with those people? You can cast it multiple times

if you have the spell levels for it.

ASHLEY: I'm going to save my spells.

MATT: Okay.

SAM: I'm going to need help. I know a little bit
about dragons. I don't know a ton. Can you help my

knowledge of animals in any way, shape, or form?
For some sort of a check, I don't know. I just want

to make sure that I know everything I can know in
the moment when checked.

LIAM: Can bards inspire themselves?

MATT: No. At higher levels, he can.

MARISHA: Theoretically, I could enhance your
ability, but it's a concentration spell and I've

already protected from acid against Grog.

SAM: Never mind. I'm fine.

MATT: All right.

MARISHA: What does your cloak do? That I put on?

LIAM: Disadvantage on attacking you.

MARISHA: Like, melee?

LIAM: Until you get hit, and then it's gone for
the round but resets for the next round.

MARISHA: Only melee, not spells, yeah?

LIAM: That's right.

MATT: So, at this point in time, Kevdak
approaches.

SAM: Zanror.

MATT: I did it again. Zanror and two of his
goliaths stay there waiting, with the offering

placed at its designated spot.

MARISHA: Shit. I can't believe we're doing this.

MATT: Any last-minute preparations?

ASHLEY: I'm going to-- wait, Grog, where are you?

TRAVIS: I'm down in the tunnel.

ASHLEY: Is that where I am?

MATT: Well, wherever you want to be.

ASHLEY: I want to be in the trenches.

MATT: In the trenches? All right, so you make your
way into the trenches, pushing past all the rest

of the Herd members.

LAURA: I hide the hole.

MATT: All right. We'll say for the purposes of
this spread so everyone knows where they're all

hidden currently--

LAURA: Everyone knows they need to not move at all
and be completely--

MARISHA: Quiet.

TRAVIS: I'm down over here.

SAM: Pike, you're in the middle of it? Oh, shit.

ASHLEY: I'm just going to hide. I'm not going to
be a hero.

TRAVIS: I'll throw her out of there if something
goes wrong.

LIAM: She doesn't clank if she doesn't move.

ASHLEY: They'll see me shining with my shiny
armor.

LAURA: You're right. We need to be stealthy up in
the trees.

MARISHA: I come over the earpiece in the calm of
battle and I say: if things go terribly wrong,

rush to this cluster of trees. I have ways that
can get us out. I feel like I should say something

inspiring, but I don't have anything, so--

TRAVIS: How about fuck shit up?

MARISHA: Fuck shit up, as Grog once said. About
two days ago.

MATT: Hiding off in this tree beneath you is Noja,
invisibility spell and vanishes behind. Beneath

the ground here, off to the side is your good
golem friend hidden in the dirt. Quiet sets in,

gentle distant wind as the midday sun begins to
stroll through. It's quiet and quieter still. You

can hear the gentle bristling of high
grasses against themselves. The tension causes the

muscles in the back of your shoulders and neck to
knot up. Watching the sun slowly crawl to its

zenith. (wingbeat noises) You look up, those of
you who are able, and you see a dark shape, a

shadow dart off from the top of Gatshadow. Circles
around, past you towards the city. Comes back.

Growing larger and larger as it does. As it comes
within the vicinity, it drifts up with one large

beat of its wings. And (impact sound) lands into
the center of this vicinity. As it hits the

ground, there is a tink! (creaking sound, impact)
As giant claws made of wood, metal, and rotten,

angry hooks slam up out of the dirt, sending a
giant cluster of dust just filling the vicinity.

It woosh-- wraps around, you hear the smashing of
metal and wood and low, guttural roaring. Dust has

filled the area, and, for a brief moment, you have
no visual on what's happened. As soon as that

hits, everyone around you in the tunnels bursts
through the floor, smashing through as the tunnels

begin to collapse inward. Also, I need everybody
to go ahead and roll intiative.

ASHLEY: Did he move the treasure?

LAURA: Not yet.

LIAM: Come on meteorite die, don't dick me.

MARISHA: Green, lucky jade. That's okay.

LIAM: Matt Colville, this is on you.

SAM: It's not you, Liam, it's me.

MARISHA: Fucking shit.

SAM: Not good. Liam, yours doesn't matter. Mine
does.

MARISHA: Is yours not good?

SAM: No.

LAURA: What did you roll?

SAM: It's okay, we got this. Pike's going to win
the fight for us.

LIAM: Hey, can I use Luck for initiative?

MATT: What does it say for the ability?

SAM: It doesn't matter, Liam.

MATT: I'll find out here. It counts as an ability
check. I don't see why it wouldn't.

LIAM: It's up to you. You're the boss. I love you.
You're the all-seeing eye.

SAM: The feast gives us advantage on all
initiative checks, right?

MATT: Ability check or saving throw-- technically,
you get plus two to ability checks, correct? I'd

say, sure, you can reroll initiative if you want.

LIAM: (laughs) It was the exact same number!

MATT: You use the Luck point, and your initiative
is what it is. Starting at this point in time,

everybody--

SAM: It's a fight.

MATT: We have 25 to 20.

LAURA: 22.

TRAVIS: 20.

MATT: All right, 22. Vex. The Herd actually rolled
really well.

SAM: Good, we need that.

MATT: Grog. All right, 20 to 15.

TALIESIN: 19.

MATT: 19 for Percy. Is that it? So we have-- Noja.
15 to ten?

LIAM: Big ten, which if you think about it rounded
is like 100.

MARISHA: Also big ten, which if you round it twice
is like a thousand.

ASHLEY: 13.

MATT: All right. Ten to five.

SAM: Big five.

MATT: Big five, right there. Scanlan holding up
the rear, there we go.

LIAM: Gosh, plan B indeed.

MATT: At the top of this surprise round, I need
Vex to go first.

LAURA: Am I first?

MARISHA: You've got, no, he has Fassbender.

LAURA: He has Fassbender. I guess I'm just going
to shoot it. I mean, what else can I do right now?

LIAM: You do you!

LAURA: All right. My Boots of Haste have been
clicked.

MATT: All right, so you are now hasted. You may
now have an additional attack action per turn.

LAURA: Badass. I'm going to Hunter's Mark him.

MATT: All right.

LAURA: Wait. Yeah, because I'm still hidden in the
tree, right?

MATT: Correct, currently. As far as you know.
Hunter's Mark on Umbrasyl.

LAURA: Okay. I'm going to Hunter's Mark him. I'm
going to shoot him with my Longbow of the Sky

Sentinel. So I'm going to roll.

MATT: Go for it. Now, he is surprised, so you
actually have--

LAURA: Advantage.

MATT: Well, you have advantage because he doesn't
see you, so yeah.

LAURA: Okay, so the first one is 12 plus 15 is
23.

MATT: 23?

LAURA: 27.

MATT: 27 hits.

LAURA: 25.

MATT: 25 hits.

LAURA: And 23.

MATT: 23 hits.

LAURA: So. Okay, those are regular attack plus
lightning arrow attack, right? I all of a sudden

forget how it works. Plus 1d6 per arrow. 1d6 for
the Hunter's Mark. And then 1d6 on the first one

for the sneak attack. Okay. Plus the regular.

MATT: Herd's up next, and then Grog.

LAURA: 31 on the first arrow.

MATT: 31 damage?

LAURA: Yes.

MATT: Nice!

LIAM: Seven plus five is 12.

LAURA: 12. Plus nine.

MATT: 21. You're not getting additional sneak
attack for the other two hits, by the way.

LAURA: Right, I know. I lost my-- 18, I think. 18
was the last one.

MATT: All right. So that was your Sky Sentinel
attack.

LAURA: That was my first attack.

MATT: Correct.

LAURA: For my second attack, I'm going to shoot
him with one of my dragon arrows. Should I waste

it on him?

SAM: Of course, he's a dragon! This is it!

LAURA: I have two of them. I've been saving one,
but I'm going to use one on him.

MATT: All right.

LAURA: This is still advantage because it's still
surprise round, right?

MATT: Sure.

LAURA: Okay. 24.

MATT: 24 hits.

LAURA: Okay. That's still my Hunter's Mark, and
then-- I have a Jelly Belly in my thing-- And then

that's 10d6 additional damage for the dragon
arrow.

MATT: Okay, surprise round doesn't give you
advantage, but you were hidden from the top of the

round, so you have advantage.

LAURA: Oh, okay. So an additional 10d6 damage for
the dragon arrow.

MATT: Go ahead and roll damage on that.

LAURA: No. 6d10. Sorry, my mistake.

MATT: There you go.

SAM: She's going to one-shot the dragon.

LAURA: 6d10. (counting)

SAM: Matt, can I turn around and see Keyleth and
Vax making out in the tree behind me?

MATT: They are not.

LIAM: We're not making out! There's a slow trickle
of wizz going down my leg right now, man.

MARISHA: Yeah, I'm hyperventilating.

LAURA: Sorry. 24 plus ten is 34 plus Hunter's Mark
is another four. 38 on that attack.

MATT: 38 points of damage on the dragon-slaying
arrow.

LAURA: And then my third attack, I'm going to use
the Blazing Bowstring.

MATT: Just so you guys are aware, this is over 100
points of damage in one round.

LIAM: Enjoy those boots.

LAURA: Do I still get advantage, because I'm still
hidden?

MATT: No. At this point in time, I'll say you've
definitely made yourself known.

LAURA: 20?

MATT: Technically you shouldn't have had advantage
on the other ones, but--

LAURA: 20?

MATT: Pssh, arrow splinters across the hide, no
effect.

LAURA: Okay. Wow.

MATT: All right. Staying there?

LAURA: I'm going to sink down into the leaves,
yes, and try to hide better.

MATT: You have no actions to hide, but you're in a
tree.

LAURA: Okay.

MATT: All right. Finishing your turn, the Herd now
is going to go. Shot from here, he's going to stay back.

All move in, he's going to stay back here and aim.
They can't even get in; there's so many of them.

LAURA: I'm trying to duck behind some branches so
he doesn't have direct line of sights on me, okay?

MATT: That's fine.

SAM: Man, what if this was all a trick and they
actually work for him? Oh god, we're all going to

die. It was all a trick! They work for him.
They're going to kill us all!

TRAVIS: If I were near you, I would slap you. Get
a hold of yourself, man!

MATT: Throwing chains up, some of them leap up and
jab the actual hook into the side and try to pull

back. Having a hard time piercing hide. It's real
strong.

LAURA: Some of them can try to like swing the
grapplings around the ankles--

SAM: Shh, don't distract him, he's adding.

MATT: I got this, don't worry.

LIAM: Don't piss him off.

MATT: All right. We'll say about eight of them
manage to actually get it into the hide. The rest

either bounce off or can't find purchase into its
hide and it just scrapes down, but the rest of

them are trying to hold it down. "We got him! We
got him!" And they're holding back. The archers

all take aim. Misses, misses, misses, misses,
hits.

LIAM: Question. Did we give the chain attached to
Fassbender to one of the goliaths?

SAM: No, it's buried in the stone.

LIAM: To the stone, but one has to go on the
dragon.

SAM: If that's what we planned, sure.

LIAM: I don't know.

MATT: You didn't tell Fassbender to use it.

LIAM: Oh, no. Okay. Cool.

MATT: That's two hits for all the arrows. All the
rest of them are just smashing against the hide of

Umbrasyl. No effect. That is seven points of
damage and eight points of damage. They actually

make it through. That's their round. Grog, you're
up.

TRAVIS: I go into a rage, and I would like to run
up behind him with my Bloodaxe and make two

reckless attacks against him.

LIAM: He's got it. He's got a whole strategy. He's
street-smart, this guy.

SAM: Intelligence of three.

TRAVIS: 26.

MATT: 26 hits.

TRAVIS: That's really good. 28.

MATT: 28 hits.

TRAVIS: So, that's 23 with three points of
necrotic damage.

MATT: 23, three points of necrotic damage added in
or on top of that?

TRAVIS: Oh, that's part of it, yeah.

MATT: 23. All right.

TRAVIS: And then the second one-- 22 with one
point of necrotic damage.

MATT: Gotcha. Whack! Whack! It's a tough hide to
cut into, but you're making small hacks into it.

You can start seeing that damage is possible,
though it's a lot to cut through. This is a very

hefty, very old beast. All right.

TRAVIS: With my bonus action, could I drink the
potion of fast nuts? Potion of speed.

MATT: Well, isn't it a bonus action to go into a
rage?

TRAVIS: I believe you're right. Never mind.

MATT: Pretty sure it is. Let me double-check real
fast.

TRAVIS: I think you're right.

MATT: It's fine, yeah. Bonus action. So that's
your turn? Percy, you're up. You're way behind the

dragon, hiding by the treeside.

TALIESIN: Okay, I'm going to cast Hex on the
dragon.

MATT: All right, Hex on the dragon.

TALIESIN: With a disadvantage to all strength
checks.

MATT: Strength ability checks, okay.

TALIESIN: I'm going to hold my turn until the
dragon's turn.

MATT: Okay. You're just going to hold until it
does something?

TALIESIN: I'm going to hold until it does
something, and if it does nothing, I'm taking my

attacks, and if it gets away I'm taking my
attacks. I'm just taking my attacks after him.

MATT: Okay. It is now Noja's turn. Noja is going
to step out from here and is going to attempt to

Lightning Bolt. From the side, he just reaches
out, hand forward. Arcs upward in its direction.

It fails its saving throw because it is held in
there. It is currently considered grappled. It

doesn't have disadvantage or anything, but I'll
say from this standpoint it can't really move

around a lot. It's going to take the damage.

SAM: (laughs) What was that face?

MATT: Terrible roll. 21 points of lightning
damage.

SAM: That's 8d6.

MATT: At the end of his turn, it's going to use
one of its legendary actions to make a tail attack

against you. We'll say that'll be 27 to hit.

TRAVIS: That'll hit.

SAM: Can I use Cutting Words on the attack or to
reduce the attack?

MATT: If you want to.

SAM: I would like to.

MATT: Okay, so 27 to hit. You take, from the slam
of its tail behind you--

SAM: No, I mean to, I'm sorry, I can't reduce
the--

MATT: Oh, I thought, to reduce the attack not
the damage.

SAM: The attack.

MATT: Okay. Go for it. Roll your d10.

SAM: Okay. (slide-whistle) A d10 is this one.
Ten.

MATT: Ten. 17. What's your AC?

TRAVIS: It's a 20.

MATT: 20. With that, the tail-- whack!-- slams
into the ground. You manage to push out of the way

just in time as Scanlan shouts up to the dragon.

SAM: Oi! You're so ugly you entered an ugly
contest and they said no professionals!

(laughter)

MATT: Just enough of a distraction in the settling
dirt for the dragon to turn its head over and its

tail swings just a little wide of you, Grog, as
you sidestep, no effect. We'll say for this, it's

less of a surprise round. I use surprise round
liberally. Surprise was it grappling and everyone

getting out of it and preparing for the actual
assault.

LIAM: It's more of a surprising round.

MATT: Correct. Umbrasyl does get a turn. Umbrasyl,
very frustrated and angry at the circumstance, is

going to attempt to break free. With disadvantage
on the athletics check to try and break out of the

grapple because of the Hex. All right. That is--

SAM: Is that a save?

MATT: No, it's not a save. It's an ability check.
However, the strength-- (struggling sounds) cannot

seem to break free from the grapple of the
communal might of all the goliaths there. So that

is unhappy.

SAM: Meaning Matt is unhappy.

MATT: All righty.

SAM: And three more dragons.

MARISHA: Why the book?

LAURA: Oh no, what are we looking up?

TRAVIS: What's in the book?

MATT: Nothing's in the book, guys.

LAURA: We're literally going to finish off this
bag of Jelly Bellies.

LIAM: If an ancient black dragon takes one hit
point of damage, it cowers and dies.

ASHLEY: I'm looking for the popcorn ones.

MARISHA: Thanks to whomever sent these Jelly
Bellies, by the way.

MATT: That'll end Umbrasyl's turn. That brings us
to Pike, you're up.

TALIESIN: Oh no, that's my turn now.

MATT: Percy's up, then.

TALIESIN: I'm going to take just a standard shot
with Bad News.

MATT: Go for it.

TALIESIN: Ooh. 28 to hit.

MATT: 28 hits.

TALIESIN: 18 points of damage, with four necrotic.
18 points of damage.

MATT: All righty.

TALIESIN: And I'll take another shot with Bad
News.

MATT: Go for it.

TALIESIN: 20 to hit.

MATT: 20 does not hit.

TALIESIN: All right.

MATT: Second shot just goes wide, firing off into
the distance over the city of Westruun.

TALIESIN: All right. Turn's up.

MATT: All right. Pike, you're up.

ASHLEY: Okay. I'm going to Guiding Bolt.

SAM: Be beautiful! Be good!

LAURA: At what level?

ASHLEY: I'm going to-- at third. Let me see this.

LIAM: Is this an attack range thing, or does it
automatically--?

MATT: Spell attack roll, so you roll--

ASHLEY: And then I add that? That would be a 29.

MATT: 29. Damn, what did you roll?

ASHLEY: I rolled a 19.

MATT: That's nice. That'll hit.

ASHLEY: Okay, so now I do--

LAURA: 4d6 plus two more d6.

ASHLEY: 26.

MATT: 26 points of damage.

ASHLEY: Yeah.

MATT: All right. And the next attack against it
has advantage. So Pike, you're staying. You popped

out of the trench and you're up on the ground. You
hit it with the Guiding Bolt. You can see the

blast of divine energy streaks up and slams into
Umbrasyl's side. The darkened black scales now

have this shining beacon across the torso.
Anything else you want to do with your turn, or is

that it? You want to move?

ASHLEY: Yeah. I'm going to stay.

MATT: All right.

ASHLEY: But I'm also going to put a Spiritual
Weapon, just a sword again. Can't think of

anything right now because I'm nervous.

MATT: We'll say right here in this area around
Umbrasyl. The magical light sword of Sarenrae once

again forges itself underneath Umbrasyl, swings up
towards-- Let's see, you did Guiding Bolt at what level?

ASHLEY: Three.

MATT: Third level. And Spiritual Weapon is second
level. So that works. Lasts for a minute. Make a

spell attack. Roll again.

ASHLEY: 19.

MATT: 19 total? The blade swings up and as it
strikes against the dragon's armor, sparks of

divine energy versus the scales streak, but no
damage is done. The blade is unable to strike

through the hide. Does that end your turn, Pike?
Are you staying where you are?

SAM: Did you add your spell attack bonus?

LAURA: Yeah, she did.

MATT: All right. You going to move, stay where you
are?

ASHLEY: I'll stay where I am.

MATT: Ending Pike's turn, Vax, you're up.

LIAM: I'm going to hold my turn until Scanlan, no.
Yeah, I'm going to-- Fassbender, slow the fucking

dragon down now!

MATT: Okay, at which point suddenly dust streaks
upward as Fassbender steps up out of the hiding

place there. Fassbender focuses his arms out as
the slow magic effect seems to take on towards it.

What's the DC on it?

LIAM: Oh, dear god. That's a good question.

SAM: Who has the Fassbender stats?

LIAM: I've got it. Slow-- 17.

MATT: 17. And that's a wisdom?

LIAM: It is wisdom. And Fassbender, just slow
until the end of tomorrow, just keep going.

MATT: It rolled a ten plus nine, succeeds in the
save.

SAM: Wisdom disadvantage save. I have Cutting
Words-ed him.

MATT: That's true. Rolled even higher.

LIAM: Question: he'll just keep doing that until I
tell him to stop, right?

MATT: Yeah, but it has to recharge. If it doesn't,
he might just start hitting it.

MARISHA: He's got to roll to see if it recharges.
It'll recharge on a five or a six.

LIAM: Okay. With my bonus action, I drink that
potion and I'm a tiny Vax.

MATT: Okay! With that, you have shrunk down to a
small-sized creature.

LIAM: (high-pitched) Do it, Scanlan, do it!

SAM: I think this is the first time I've ever been
taller than you.

LIAM: (high-pitched) Hey, buddy! I love ya. Let's
go in that dragon's gut.

SAM: I don't particularly like small people.

LIAM: (high-pitched) Do you think Keyleth will
think less of me?

SAM: Yes, I do.

MATT: Is that the end of your turn?

LIAM: Yeah, action, bonus action. Done

MATT: So Vax is actually like a few inches
shorter than you. You're now towering over him.

SAM: I tousle his hair.

LIAM: I'm like eight inches tall, if that's true!
He's so small!

MATT: (laughs) You're like two feet. He's about
two and a half.

LIAM: (high-pitched) These are still sharp.

SAM: You're so cute!

LIAM: (high-pitched) Heeheehee.

SAM: My turn?

MATT: So, it's your turn, Scanlan. Oh no, Pike,
Vax, Keyleth, then it's you. Keyleth, what are you doing?

MARISHA: Oh dear god. Okay. I'm going to transmute
the earth underneath him. Right? That's what I'm

doing? That's part of the plan? So if I can do
right underneath Umbrasyl, that would be

fabulous.

MATT: Transmute Rock--

MARISHA: It's a 120-foot range.

MATT: Yes, and a 40-foot cube in the range. So
what are you doing?

MARISHA: I want to do the area just directly under
Umbrasyl, if I can, so that I'm not sinking the

Herd around him.

MATT: Turning what into what?

MARISHA: I want to turn the ground directly
underneath Umbrasyl into mud.

MATT: Okay. The only piece of rock is the piece of
rock that you put beneath where the chains were

there. The area right beneath Umbrasyl is dirt,
it's earth.

MARISHA: Okay, I thought it had spread, because
it's 40-foot, so I thought it was under Umbrasyl,

but I could do something else--

MATT: A 40-foot cube, part of it would be under
Umbrasyl, possibly, but for the placement of where

you put that, it's going to be hard for you to do
it without it pulling everybody else into it.

MARISHA: Okay. Plan B.

MATT: You can do it still, but it'll probably take
some of the Herd with it.

MARISHA: Should I go with pillars? Yeah. I'll go
with--

SAM: No.

MARISHA: No?

LIAM: Just do what you're going to do. Ignore the
gnome. Go.

MARISHA: Okay. I'm going to cast Bones of the
Earth, which I think I can pop up six pillars

around Umbrasyl.

MATT: Okay.

MARISHA: So, Grog, you want a boost? You want to
stand on a rock?

TRAVIS: Yeah.

MARISHA: Pike, you want a boost? Do you want a
boost?

ASHLEY: Yes.

MARISHA: Okay. Here's what I'm going to do. I want
a pillar here, Grog. When you're ready.

MATT: All right, so you're putting Grog on a
pillar.

MARISHA: Grog on a big stone pillar, bam! And
then, where's the button? Pike on a pillar over

here, bam. Let's go ahead, I'm trying to trap him
in here. I want to pin him as these go up, so

let's do one here. Can I get whoever that is up on
a--

MATT: Which one?

MARISHA: Right up here.

MATT: All right. If I'd known you were going to
use this spell, I would've brought the pillars.

MARISHA: Oh. Surprise! We were trying not to tell
anyone our plan.

MATT: I know, it's good. Now I know.

LIAM: We wanted to keep you off-balance, Matt.

MATT: That's good. All right.

MARISHA: Let's do another one over here. Bam.
Pinning him in. One, two, what is that, three,

four. One on the opposite side, over here.
Umbrasyl's a big fatty so I can't get my laser

pointer over there.

MATT: Where do you want it? Right there?

MARISHA: Over here-ish. On the other side of this
one. Can I raise a pillar through his wing?

MATT: Not through his wing, no.

MARISHA: So flanking this pillar on the other side
over there, if that makes-- flanking this pillar.

So wait, move that one that you just placed over a
bit.

MATT: This is like a summoning spell.

MARISHA: You know, it's fine. You get the idea.

MATT: That one there.

MARISHA: Let's do one up here.

MATT: You have one more.

MARISHA: Knock him in the chin.

MATT: Okay.

MARISHA: Hopefully that contains him a bit.

MATT: All righty. That finish your turn?

MARISHA: Yeah, guess so.

MATT: All right. That brings us to Scanlan.

SAM: Okay. Here we go.

LIAM: Here we go.

SAM: I turn to my little buddy and I say: are you
ready for a ride, little man?

LIAM: (high-pitched) Come on, big guy!

SAM: Before we go, I yell as loud as I can to Pike
to inspire her with my bonus action first.

MATT: The range? Pike is quite far away.

SAM: Can't hear me, or it won't work?

MATT: What's the range, I think it's 60 feet, so
yeah. She's too far away.

MARISHA: I'm behind you.

SAM: Well then, am I within 60 feet of her?

MATT: Yeah.

SAM: Oh. Then I will sing her some inspiration and
I'll sing. (singing) Westruun town a dead-end

world, east-end boys and Westruun girls, Westruun
girls.

(laughter)

MATT: Take your d10.

MARISHA: Fuck yeah, d10.

SAM: And then I sort of link arms with good old
Vax. Actually, I hug him tight because we've gotta

be tight together to do this, and I hold up my
hand cone and I cast Dimension Door and I'm going

to aim right for the belly of the beast.

LIAM: And I say: This is so fuuuu--

MATT: Scanlan. You are not fully familiar with the
physiology of a dragon.

SAM: No, I am not.

LAURA: I gave him as much information as I could.

MATT: And you did. I would like for you to make an
intelligence check.

SAM: Just an intelligence check.

MATT: This is your ability to ascertain based on
what you've seen, your knowledge of the dragon,

where possibly in its body its stomach may be.

SAM: Okay. Why not?

LAURA: Is it advantage because I told him where it
would be?

SAM: Nope. 12?

LIAM: Can I give him my Luck?

MATT: (laughs) No.

SAM: It's just intelligence, right, there's no
other--

MATT: Right, you add your intelligence modifier to
it.

SAM: Yeah, it's two.

MATT: You would add two to that because of your
bardic ability. Plus two to any skill check.

SAM: Okay, 14, then.

ASHLEY: Is there anything extra from heroes'
feast? No?

MATT: No. So. Both of you grab hands and vanish.
The darkness that hits your eyes upon vanishing

doesn't go away as darkness still hits you. All of
a sudden, you are plunged into a thick, wet,

crushing interior. You have finished your
Dimension Door spell. You are in darkness. You are

being crushed between what feels like two layers
of musculature. Both of you.

SAM: Hi, dude.

MATT: You don't know where each other are. You
don't see the other person. There's no sight. You

can't hear anything.

SAM: Are we touching at all?

MATT: Nope. The trajectory of the spell and the
unfortunate circumstance put you guys on two

different sides of a membrane, and you don't know
where you are.

SAM: It's going great.

MATT: All right. Does that end your turn?

SAM: Yeah, that's all-- I'll use my movement to
go--

MATT: You are both considered restrained, so your
speed becomes zero, attack rolls against you have

advantage, you have disadvantage on dexterity
saving throws. Also, you suffer eight points of

acid damage, reduced to four.

SAM: Awesome.

LIAM: Who's got the other gatestone? I have one.

ASHLEY: Oh, I have one.

LIAM: 60 seconds.

MATT: You also both currently have no air. At the
top of this round, Umbrasyl goes (disgruntled noises).

LIAM: Suck it, bitch!

MATT: "I will eat all of you!"

LIAM: I'm a two-foot-tall rogue, you
motherfucker.

LAURA: I'm up?

MATT: You're up first, top of the round.

LAURA: Oh my god. Okay, I'm going to cast Conjure
Animals and I'm going to conjure two giant eagles

right in front of his face.

MATT: I'm really hoping we can put more things on
the battlefield, guys. I think that would be a

cool idea.

LAURA: (laughs) Sorry, Matt.

MATT: It's not like I don't have enough to
concentrate on up there.

LAURA: I'm sorry.

MATT: It's fine. I don't have two giant eagle
miniatures, so we'll say, for the time being, this

air elemental is a giant eagle.

LAURA: Okay.

LIAM: I'll say, with no facetiousness, this is all
I ever wanted in my life.

SAM: To be trapped in the spleen of a dragon
with me?

MATT: We'll say these are up in the air.

LAURA: Okay, right in front of--

MATT: Because I've used all the height things
for--

LAURA: And Conjure Animals is an action, or a--

MATT: It's an action.

LAURA: Okay. I'm going to tell them to attack his
eyes.

MATT: Okay.

LAURA: They get their own--

MATT: Own initiative, which I just rolled. What's
their dexterity bonus?

LAURA: You sent me a thing-- let's go with that.
Hold up. Giant eagle, dexterity is 17, plus three.

MATT: So it would be plus three, that puts them at
11, so they are just above Keyleth and Vax. All right.

LAURA: And then for my bonus action, I'm going
to-- I can't cast two spells, even if one's a

bonus action?

MATT: As long as it's a level two or lower.

LAURA: Oh, okay. For my bonus action, I'm going to
hide a lot? I'm going to hide.

MATT: You didn't start the round hidden, so you
can't do that.

LAURA: I wasn't still hidden?

MATT: No, you have to spend a bonus action to
attempt to hide at the end of your turn.

LAURA: Can I attempt to hide?

MATT: You'd have to be a level two rogue to do
that as a bonus action on your turn.

LAURA: But on my boots of haste I can use it to
dash, disengage, or hide.

MATT: Oh, you're using your bonus action-- so your
extra action, not your bonus action.

LAURA: Okay, my extra action.

MATT: You can do that, yes. Go ahead and roll a
stealth check.

LAURA: Natural 20.

MATT: You vanish into the foliage.

ASHLEY: Yeah.

MATT: All right. Great. Finishing your turn, the
Herd now goes. They're going to attempt to put the

rest of the chains up to increase the DC of the
grapple. There we go. So four more chains get

latched on so they're holding. Each chain
increases the DC of the grapple. All right. So as

they're all holding it down, the five in the back
that are going to take attacks on it are going to

do so. That's a hit, miss, miss, hit, miss, miss,
miss, miss, miss, hit. Three hits. So four damage,

five damage, and eight damage.

LAURA: Wow, these guys hit real hard. How come
they were hitting us so hard?

MATT: They're rolling really terrible. They get
two attacks each. All right. And with that, the

tribal druid is going to cast Blight on the
creature. However, it does make its saving throw,

so for the purposes of speed on this I'm going to
use my dice-rolling app. That's a lot of dice to

roll. That comes to 18 points of necrotic damage.
That brings us to the end of that round. Grog,

you're up.

TRAVIS: Could I go into a frenzied rage?

MATT: You may.

TRAVIS: Excellent. I'm on top of a pillar, and I'm
not within striking distance, right?

MATT: You can hit it.

TRAVIS: From up there?

MATT: Yeah, it's pretty tall.

TRAVIS: (laughs) I would like to use all three of
my attacks against his backside, reckless.

MATT: Okay.

TRAVIS: Natural 20.

MATT: All righty.

TRAVIS: 26.

MATT: Hits.

TRAVIS: These are just regular. They're not great
weapon master. 23.

MATT: Hits.

TRAVIS: Sweet. So the first one was the crit.

MATT: The crit. So go ahead and roll damage on
that plus two additional d12s.

TRAVIS: Right. That's a d12. 21 and two additional
d12s?

MATT: Yep, 21 plus?

TRAVIS: Ten, 31.

MATT: 31.

TRAVIS: Seven, so 38.

MATT: 38 points of damage on the first strike.
Next two strikes, roll for it.

TRAVIS: That was awful. 13.

MATT: 13, all right. Last one.

TRAVIS: That was also pretty crap. That's 16.

MATT: 16, okay. At the end of its turn it's going
to use a legendary action to attempt to wing

attack you. It's going to cost its last--

TRAVIS: Oh, I did not add the necrotic.

MATT: Go for it.

TRAVIS: On all three of them. Three, six, eight.

MATT: Total of eight?

TRAVIS: Total of eight.

MATT: All right. Expending two of its actions to
use a wing attack, it's going to go ahead and

start beating its wings as hard as it can, even
with the chains amongst it. Each creature within

50 feet of the dragon must succeed on a DC 23
dexterity saving throw. Make a dex save.

TRAVIS: (singing) I believe I can fly--

MATT: The only one of the party within-- what did
you roll?

TRAVIS: A nine.

MATT: Nine. All right. You take 15 points of
bludgeoning damage.

TRAVIS: Reduced to...

MATT: Reduced to eight. Go ahead and make one more
dexterity saving throw, just for my own sake.

TRAVIS: 16.

MATT: 16. You are thrust off the pillar, pushed,
falling, and hitting the ground, prone on the

ground, the pillar remains there. You take an
additional eight points of bludgeoning damage,

reduced to four, from the impact. But you are
knocked prone. The rest of the Herd here, we'll

say for the sake of that, they do not save. Oh,
man. They are all knocked prone, knocking much of

the chains free from their hands as they're thrown onto
their backs. Then it is still technically

grappled, so it cannot fly half its speed,
unfortunately. It does seem to have knocked a

majority of the chains off its back. Percy, you're
up.

TALIESIN: Holding my action until its action.

MATT: Okay. That brings us to Noja. Noja's going
to attempt another Lightning Bolt. It's the best

thing he has at the moment. Oh, a natural 20 on
the saving throw. Nope. Not bad. 15 points of

lightning damage to Umbrasyl. Noja's then going to
dart back behind the tree. Ending Noja's turn, it

is now Umbrasyl's turn. Umbrasyl is going to go
ahead and attempt to break free of the final

chains that are there.

TALIESIN: With disadvantage.

MATT: Correct, with disadvantage. But even so
comes out to a 22. (crash) The rest of the chains

that were holding Umbrasyl down break free.

LAURA: What about the trap? Is he out of the trap
then, too?

MATT: Well, the trap that's currently holding it
in place is part of the whole setup. The trap is

what's keeping it there, starting the grapple, and
the chains are just there to increase the DC. So

with that, the actual metal structure of the trap
that held it in place is shattered. You can see

pieces of iron go flying, wood splintering in this
cloud of dust that is kicked up from the movement

of the wings. Currently right now there are still
hooks and chains dangling from Umbrasyl, but some

of them have broken and most of them are unmanned
at the moment. The dragon is going to

(wings flapping) go ahead and--

TALIESIN: Can I take my action?

MATT: You can, yes.

TALIESIN: I'm taking a shot at him at the joint at
his wing and I'm going to attempt to ground him.

MATT: Attempt to ground him? Okay, go for it. Roll
for the attack.

TALIESIN: Natural fucking 20.

(cheering)

TALIESIN: Oh no, oh my god, right now.

MARISHA: He's taking a photo?

TRAVIS: He's taking a photo.

TALIESIN: Photo taken. Ha! Natural 20. It still
doesn't necessarily mean he's grounded. It means

he has to make a strength saving throw or he's
prone.

MATT: Correct. So roll the damage first.

TALIESIN: Roll damage. Oh yeah. That's double
dice, so that's-- 23 points doubled is 46 plus--

MATT: Plus the modifier. So 46 is--

TALIESIN: 46, yeah, plus the modifier now is 52
points of damage total.

LIAM: That bullet came from the center of the
Pacific Ocean!

MATT: Strength saving throw.

TALIESIN: I rolled really well.

MATT: That's amazing. All right, so. Strength
saving throw to try and resist the effect. That is

a failure. It's going to use one of its legendary
actions to automatically succeed, one of its

legendary resistances. So succeeds. Rising up from
the ground, because of all the guys that are

knocked prone--

TALIESIN: Wait!

MATT: What was that?

TALIESIN: I was going to pop off a couple more
shots.

MATT: You held your action, okay. So you fired,
loaded, fired last round.

TALIESIN: I was going to blow an action surge.

MATT: Oh. It's weird to do-- Out of turn action,
it is a little strange to do that.

TALIESIN: Okay.

MATT: He held his action. That's something you do
on your turn as a burst. I'll say, probably have

to wait on your actual turn to do that full bit.

TALIESIN: No, it's okay. Go ahead.

MATT: Umbrasyl does rise up about 40 feet.

LIAM: Here we go, Scanlan.

MATT: It's actually going to move back this way.

ASHLEY: Did he never land on the glyph?

MATT: He landed in the trap immediately and the
trap set off, but he never grabbed the stuff.

ASHLEY: It was if he landed on it.

MATT: You said it was to--

LIAM: Pull it off.

TRAVIS: Yeah, we said to lift it off.

MATT: All right. Flying back at that point
(flapping wings) just growling, absolute anger.

Squeezed in its insides, you guys both feel this
heavy contraction within its body as you guys

watch this flow of greenish bile spittle begins to
fill up and spray out in a line from its mouth.

LIAM: Look at all those people.

LAURA: Are they all going to die?

MATT: Everything there-- Okay.

LAURA: The birds were up in the air, though.

MATT: Right, but the stream sprays down, it's not
just a single bolt. It vomits it out and it lands

over everything. That's how it works.

SAM: Pike, are you in there?

TRAVIS: No.

MATT: All right, that comes to 15d8 acid damage.

LAURA: 15d8?

SAM: I think a lot of those people will be fine.

MATT: So that's 81 points of damage to all those
guys. They all just dissolve in horrible agony.

LAURA: Oh my god, you guys, we're going to die.

SAM: No, just me and Liam.

Both of the eagles just screech in pain as they're
entirely ruined.

LAURA: Good job, you fucking wastes of space. They
didn't even get to fucking go.

MATT: Sorry. That's going to end Umbrasyl the
Hope-Devourer's turn.

MARISHA: The Hope-Devourer?

MATT: That is the full name.

SAM: So his middle name is The Hope? And his last
name is Devourer?

MATT: Devourer. Married into it.

SAM: It's hyphenated?

MATT: Hyphenated, yeah.

TRAVIS: Marriage fucked everything up.

MARISHA: Yep, Umbrasyl the Hope and then marriage
fucked everything up.

MATT: You guys have both entirely vanished, you
both are inside the entity. All right, so.

Keyleth, the line just stops right before you. It
smacks into the ground five feet from your feet

and you watch as the earth and grass beneath you
just immediately turns black and seems to almost

coalesce into this death-sludge in this long line.
It just barely misses you. All right, that's going

to end Umbrasyl's turn. Pike, you're up.

ASHLEY: All right. So. I'm going to Guiding Bolt
him again.

MATT: All right. You're now up on a pillar facing
this giant flying dragon. Standing above the rest

of the battlefield, your shield up and your
Frostbrand to the side, you reach up and grab your

holy symbol and go ahead and roll for your Guiding
Bolt attack.

TRAVIS: How high is he?

MATT: 30 feet. He went back.

ASHLEY: 28?

MATT: 28 hits.

TRAVIS: Fuck him up, Pike.

MARISHA: Come on, Pike. Can you bring him down
any?

ASHLEY: I'm rolling what again? Sorry.

LAURA: What level are you casting it at?

ASHLEY: Four again.

MATT: How many 4th-level spells do you have left
now? Because you cast--

ASHLEY: I have two more.

MATT: Two more? Because you cast Death Ward, which
is 4th-level, I believe, right? On Scanlan?

LIAM: Well, what did you do? You did Death Ward.
And is that it?

ASHLEY: The last Guiding Bolt.

LAURA: Yeah, so that's only two you used.

MATT: Right. So you have how many more left at
4th-level?

ASHLEY: Two. Because the ring gives me one extra.

MATT: All right, so go ahead and roll that. That
is going to be 4d-- how much do you get Guiding

Bolt damage on that then?

LAURA: 4d6 plus an additional two or three?

ASHLEY: At fourth level, that would be seven,
then.

MATT: That would be 7d6 radiant damage.

ASHLEY: 22.

MATT: 22 points of damage.

ASHLEY: But I'll also-- never mind. We're good,
22.

MATT: You're good. Okay.

ASHLEY: And then I'm going to move my Spiritual
Weapon.

MATT: Okay, Spiritual Weapon, which is technically
on the ground over here.

ASHLEY: And I'm going to move it to the back of
his neck.

MATT: Let's see. Spiritual Weapon, can move it 20
feet and repeat the attack.

It is more than 20 feet away.

ASHLEY: Okay.

MATT: It's down there, so it can begin to shift
upward in that direction. So we'll say that it's

partway floating in midair.

ASHLEY: Can it get his feet?

MATT: No, it can't. It's too far away,
unfortunately.

ASHLEY: All right, well, it'll start working its
way up there.

MATT: Okay. That ends your turn, Pike. All right.
It would be the eagles' turn, but they got

dissolved.

LAURA: Thanks, Matt. Thank you for pointing that
back out.

MATT: Oh, I like to. I also want to point out that
you guys held my dragon to the ground for two

rounds and hit it like a goddamn pincushion.

LIAM: You'll feel better once Scanlan and I have
dissolved.

MATT: I will. All right. End of Pike's turn. Vax,
you're up first. At the top of your round--

LIAM: I'm just going to take the dragon blade and
I'm going to as best as I can drag it in front of me.

MATT: Okay.

LIAM: I'm going to cut the insides of this--

MATT: First, you take eight points of bludgeoning
damage as it is crushing you, muscles tensing on

the inside are just-- You're in between
musculature right now and just being crushed.

LIAM: Yes. Probably its sphincter. Now what?

MATT: You are restrained, so go ahead and make
your attack at disadvantage.

LIAM: At disadvantage.

LAURA: But it can't very well avoid it.

MATT: It's about him being able to actually move
and get it.

LIAM: Well, I'm using the dragon longsword, which
I've never used before. It's a plus one sword, so I get what?

MATT: Plus one to hit.

LIAM: With strength?

MATT: It would be strength, but we've agreed that
it can work as finesse for the purposes of a dex

bonus, you just can't sneak attack.

LIAM: I just can't sneak attack. All right. So.

MATT: Be grateful I'm being--

LIAM: Whatever you want to do, you are the deity
here. So this is a 17 to hit.

MATT: 17, you pull the blade and it's just unable
to cut through this tense muscle and tendon.

LIAM: Use Luck.

MATT: Okay.

LIAM: Nothing.

ASHLEY: Wait, what is this? Is this an attack?

MATT: He's trying from the inside.

ASHLEY: Can I cast War God's Blessing?

MATT: Does War God's Blessing require you to see
the creature?

ASHLEY: Probably not.

MATT: We'll find out.

SAM: Yeah, probably.

TRAVIS: Probably not.

MATT: When a creature within 30 feet makes an
attack roll-- So, using the Guiding Bolt, you can

see shifting somewhere in the body of Umbrasyl--
(laughs) You see this form moving in there. You

know, based on what you guys have discussed
before-- I hope you discussed this plan before.

LIAM: We discussed it so much.

MATT: That's a plus ten bonus, is that what it
is?

ASHLEY: Plus ten.

MATT: That hits, go ahead and roll damage with the
longsword.

MARISHA: Is this sneak attack?

MATT: No, he doesn't get sneak attack with a long
blade.

TRAVIS: But against dragons it does specific
damage.

LIAM: Yeah, it does plus 3d6, if I remember.

MATT: Let me look it up here just to be safe.

LIAM: 15 from the inside.

MATT: 15 damage from the inside.

LIAM: Hopefully that cuts me a little breathing
room. And a question that only you know,

Matthew--

MATT: The extra is 3d6, you are correct.

LIAM: Am I within five feet of Scanlan?

TALIESIN: An extra 3d6, not just 3d6.

LIAM: I got 15 damage. Am I within, I'd like to
use my bonus action to sneak attack if I can, if

I'm within five feet. If Scanlan is within five
feet of the creature, that's up to you. I don't

know. It's crazy circumstance.

MATT: The reason that you would get sneak attack
for having another creature within five feet is

because it is harrying and the opponent is
distracted--

LIAM: The heartburn is not distracting it?

MATT: Not enough.

LIAM: Not enough. Okay.

MATT: There's not a lot of threat to Umbrasyl.

LAURA: You get a d8 plus your d6.

LIAM: Yes, I know. I did it.

LAURA: Then you did the additional 3d6?

LIAM: I did, darling.

LAURA: And you only got 15?

LIAM: I only got 15. I would like to use the
dagger to cut into him as well.

MATT: All right, go for it. Disadvantage on that
attack.

LIAM: Disadvantage?

MATT: Yes.

LIAM: Oh, that's no good. That's, nah, it's 12.

MATT: You can't even get your dagger out of the
sheath. It's too tight in there. You are cutting

through muscle, and you feel the body and the
muscle just tense based on the reaction of the

interior pain. You watch the dragon, but
it's still keeping up in the air.

LIAM: I'm okay. Okay.

MATT: You are beginning to suffocate.

LIAM: All right.

SAM: Oh, jesus.

MATT: I mean, you can hold your breath for a
little while here, but just letting you know,

there is no airflow. You're not suffocating yet,
but you know there is no air to breathe

currently.

LIAM: I understand, Matthew. I'm fucked. It's
fine.

MATT: All right. That's your turn. That brings us
to Keyleth.

MARISHA: I'm so scared. Okay, hang on. What the
hell is the range on that? I'm going to just take

a few steps forward, here-ish. Matt.

MATT: Right there?

MARISHA: There-ish, move up a little bit. Just so
I can-- Yeah, just ahead of the tree. And I'm

going to attempt to cast Earthbind on him. He has
to make a strength saving throw.

MATT: Strength saving throw. That is a failure.
It's going to use its second legendary resistance,

succeeds.

MARISHA: Fuck, I knew it. Well, we've burned off
two of his legendary resistances.

LIAM: Also, I have no idea what the initiative
order is, but Fassbender keeps doing Slow until I

tell him to do something else, right?

MATT: If it recharges. Go ahead and roll a d6.

LIAM: A d6.

MATT: Yes.

LIAM: Two.

MATT: Two. It does not recharge Slow. Fassbender
is too low. Fassbender is just standing there now.

MARISHA: Okay. I'm going to take the remaining of
my turn. Oh shit, I actually didn't want to move.

It's okay. I'm going to turn into an earth
elemental.

MATT: Okay. All right.

MARISHA: And I'm going to take the remaining of my
movement to move up--

MATT: Up?

MARISHA: Well, he has 60 feet of movement, but I
moved, what, like ten feet earlier, so.

MATT: 60 feet of movement? His speed is 60?

MARISHA: No, I'm sorry. His Earthglide is-- Yes,
30, so he moves up 20 feet.

MATT: 20 feet, all right. That finishes your turn,
Keyleth. Scanlan, you're up. Actually, at the end

of Keyleth's turn, it's going to use a legendary
action to use a tail attack against you, Pike,

because you are within 20 feet of it. As it's in
the air, its tail whips out toward you. That is a

32 to hit.

(laughter)

ASHLEY: Yeah. Nope. No. Doesn't hit.

MATT: You take 22 points of bludgeoning damage.

ASHLEY: And I'm staying up there?

MATT: You're barely holding on up there, but yes.
You take the brunt of it with your shield, and it

almost knocks you off the side. You manage to take
your sword and dig in to the opposite side and

catch yourself on the edge of the pillar. It does
not knock you off. Scanlan, it is now your turn.

At the top of your turn, you take six points of
acid damage, reduced to three, as you've found

your way into the stomach. He did not.

SAM: Is it big in there?

MATT: It's fairly spacious, but it's all squeezed
together right now. It's not a giant, empty void,

it's not a giant pocket of air in your stomach, it
is a--

LIAM: Click, motherfucker, click.

MATT: You're also holding your breath. You are
also submerged in liquid that is dissolving you.

SAM: I can move my arms, though.

MATT: You can. You're still pressed in but you can
move your hands, yeah.

SAM: Okay, that's good. I'm going to get that rod
out and click it.

MATT: (laughs) Okay. Pulling out-- This is going
to be weird. All right. So you take out the

immovable rod and click it and as you release it, it
stays there aloft in the center. You have

darkvision as a gnome, correct?

SAM: Yes.

MATT: Right, so there in this space amongst the
murky liquid you can just barely see its shape

there and it is held aloft, yes.

SAM: Okay. That's good, that's positive, guys.
We're getting somewhere. Is that my movement? Is

that my bonus? What is that?

MATT: No, that's your action to pull it out and
click it. Because it's not easy to do in your

current circumstance.

SAM: Sure. Okay. Well, I guess that's my action
and I guess as a bonus action I can't really do

anything. (laughs) I can't inspire anyone because
I don't think I can hear-- oh! I'm going to use

the earring. Shit. Fuck. I'm going to just start
screaming and say: can you hear me, Vax?

MATT: You guys hear through the earring,
(incoherent high-pitched babbling). The air has

now escaped your lungs.

SAM: Fuck!

MATT: You're not drowning yet. That ends your
turn. Vex, you're up.

LAURA: Do I get advantage on attacking it because
of Guiding Bolt?

MATT: You do. The next attack, yes.

SAM: Did Vax reply?

MATT: Yeah, the Guiding Bolt, because the Guiding
Bolt's technically the next attack, it did not

give you advantage on the attack, because you're
on the inside and you don't actually see the

Guiding Bolt. It would go over to the next one.

LIAM: I don't know what the fuck's going on, Matt,
it's fine.

LAURA: I've got to see, because I just want to
know. How far does Grasping Vine go? Do you know,

Keyleth?

MARISHA: 60 feet? I can tell you super fast. No,
30 feet.

LAURA: How high in the air is--

MATT: He is 30 feet up right now.

MARISHA: You technically have a pillar that's 30
feet high adjacent to him that you can anchor it

into a pillar.

LAURA: I'm going to-- can it go from the bottom of
the pillar up towards him?

MATT: If you want to. Down here, you mean?

LAURA: Yeah, I want to try to grasp onto one of
his legs and yank him back down towards the

ground. Ooh, which would really hurt with the
immovable rod inside of him.

MATT: Okay. All right. So using your bonus action,
you conjure the vine as your one 4th-level spell.

LAURA: I have two because I have a pearl of
power.

MATT: Oh. So you would've had to have prepared
that in advance. But yes, we'll say you do.

LAURA: Okay. Oh, I didn't tell you. I should
have.

MATT: You should have told me. But we'll say as
part of the preparation you did that, okay. So

Grasping Vine appears, lashes out from this pillar
up at Umbrasyl.

LAURA: Yeah.

MATT: All right. The creature has to succeed on a
dexterity saving throw or be pulled-- what's the

DC on your spell?

LAURA: Um, 16.

MATT: 16. That is a nine plus nine, that is 18. So
the vine whips out and Umbrasyl backs up and pulls

the leg up and it just hits the air beneath. Kicks
away the vine.

LAURA: That was my bonus.

MATT: Yeah.

LAURA: Okay, then I'm going to attack him three
times with my hasting.

MATT: Go for it. Yeah, three attacks.

LAURA: All right.

MATT: First one has advantage.

LAURA: Okay. 24?

MATT: 24 hits.

LAURA: Okay. And that's sneak attack, because he's
got somebody close to him. Inside of him.

MATT: It's technically not sneak attack. It's not
so much about-- there's somebody close, but a

person that is not threatening him from his
current physical space, it is a bit of heartburn

for him right now. You don't sneak attack somebody
from eating bad pasta.

LAURA: Cool. Then just seven--

SAM: Did he move?

MATT: Not yet, no. So how much damage is that?

LAURA: Ten.

MATT: Ten points of damage for the first attack.

LAURA: For the first attack.

MATT: Second attack? This does not have advantage,
only the first one did. What was your first roll?

LAURA: Then it doesn't hit. Then 26 for the last
one.

MATT: 26 hits, so the first one hits, sticks part
in the front of its armor, doesn't seem to phase

it, the second one it actually hits the wing and
the wing just shatters it and knocks it out of the

air as it's keeping itself up. The third one,
however, does strike and hit and it'll actually go

between the scales of the neck. Roll for damage.

LAURA: Nine.

MATT: Nine points of damage. Both arrows sticking
out of the hardened exterior of the ancient black

dragon.

LAURA: The Grasping Vine just still hangs out
there?

MATT: Yeah, it's just chilling on the side there.
As long as you maintain concentration, it'll stay.

TRAVIS: Is it grabbing him or not?

MATT: It failed with the grab. All right. End of
your turn? Is that what you're doing?

LAURA: Am I hiding still?

MATT: You have to use a bonus action to try and
hide if you began the turn hiding. Or you can use

your extra action from the haste to do it, but you
already used it to attack, so you're not hidden.

LAURA: Ugh! Fine.

MATT: (laughs) End of your turn, it's going to use
another legendary action to do another tail attack

against you, Pike.

TRAVIS: Is that the third one?

MATT: That is a natural one. Umbrasyl goes to
swing and suddenly there's a pulse in the stomach

as you see Vax moving once again on the inside and
doing so distracts it and the tail just swings

overhead and you duck below it as it just barely
misses your head by inches. One of your braids

actually comes loose from the amount of wind that
blows by. That brings us to--

TRAVIS: What's left of the Herd.

MATT: Herd's turn.

TRAVIS: Come on, goliaths and Herd, please roll
better.

MATT: He is going to rush up around here. Grab the
chains that they can. The chains have broken, so

they're going to go ahead as part of their plan to
begin to just unleash weaponry, so they just run through--

MARISHA: Have they all broken? Maybe some just
came loose.

MATT: This was their plan. The plan they agreed
to. They're all taking out javelins now. They had

them at their side. They're all leaping up towards
it.

LAURA: Are they just the stupidest goliaths, that
they're all clumping together again?

LIAM: That's redundant.

LAURA: These guys are dumb.

MATT: You've met...

TRAVIS: Scholars, the lot. You're going to pay for
that later, by the way.

MATT: All right, so they're all going to take
javelin shots at-- miss. Miss. Two-- miss. Hit.

Hit. Three hits. And so they're all just (effort
sounds) chucking these javelins upward. Four,

eight, that's 12, plus seven-- 19 points of damage from
the javelins as some stick in then fall out, the

wounds are now becoming visible. Umbrasyl's--
there's visible wounding but doesn't appear to be

in dire straits or anything. Grog, you're up.

TRAVIS: Yes, I have two questions. One of the
things I picked up from Kevdak were four enchanted

javelins. What do those do?

MATT: They're thrown, ranged attacks.

TRAVIS: And they're just enchanted?

MATT: They're plus one to hit and damage.

TRAVIS: Just that.

MATT: That's it, yeah. It's a relatively simple
enchantment.

TRAVIS: What is my climbing speed? If my natural
speed is 50 and I wanted to climb that column,

what's the climbing speed?

MATT: Climbing speed? I mean, if you roll a decent
climb check-- here. That would be-- I'd say that

would be an athletics check to see if you can
climb it, and I'd put it at about half speed. But

you're also prone, so getting up from that's half
your speed.

TRAVIS: On my back, can I use my bonus action to
drink the potion of speed, which makes me hasted?

MATT: Yes you can. You now have technically four
attacks per round.

TRAVIS: I do. And it doubles my speed, right?

MATT: Yes.

TRAVIS: Okay, so I have 100 feet, so can I stand
up?

MATT: Yep. 50 feet.

TRAVIS: Can I try and climb that column towards
Umbrasyl's feet?

MATT: Athletics check.

TRAVIS: That's not awesome. 18.

MATT: 18. You just manage to get to the top with
the last bit of your movement. So you are up about

ten feet from Umbrasyl right now, pushing on 15 at
an angle.

TRAVIS: So I have four attacks?

MATT: Yes. You're not in melee, though.

TRAVIS: Yeah, so I'll use three of the enchanted
javelins and the javelin of lightning.

MATT: Okay. All right, so you (effort sounds)
finally with the javelin of lightning. So go ahead

and make the first three strikes.

TRAVIS: Reckless, all of them.

MATT: Okay, so with advantage on each of these.
The range on the javelin strikes, I'm just going

to pull it up real fast, since this is the first
time you've used this.

TRAVIS: Yeah, it's 120 feet for the javelin of
lightning.

MATT: Yeah, within 30-foot range, so it's fine. Go
ahead and roll. First one is?

TRAVIS: It's an 11 plus-- just my natural like--

MATT: It's 11 plus one for being enchanted.

TRAVIS: Right.

MATT: Plus your strength modifier and your
proficiency modifier.

TRAVIS: Oh no, my proficiency--

MATT: Which is plus seven, I believe. Plus-- so
yeah, that hits.

TRAVIS: Okay. Where's my proficiency-- oh five, I
got it.

MATT: Yeah, you're looking at plus 13 with these
attacks. The first one hits.

TRAVIS: Okay.

MATT: Second one.

TRAVIS: Is 28.

MATT: Hits. Third one.

TRAVIS: Is 19.

MATT: Misses. The lightning javelin you just throw
and I think it hits.

TRAVIS: And the second one, the last one is a 30.

MATT: The last one, I don't think you actually
roll to hit with the javelin, it just becomes a

bolt of lightning.

TRAVIS: That's right.

MATT: So roll 1d6 plus eight for damage on two of
those javelins.

TRAVIS: So that's 12.

MATT: All right.

TRAVIS: 14.

MATT: All righty. And now with the javelin of
lightning. Makes its save. That is a 21 with the

save. What's the DC?

TRAVIS: 17.

MATT: 17, so it takes the half damage.

TRAVIS: Okay.

MATT: What's the damage on it total?

TRAVIS: 4d6.

MATT: Go ahead and roll that and he takes half
damage.

TRAVIS: 13.

MATT: 13, all righty. So 13, and then halved.

TRAVIS: Six--

MATT: Six points of lightning damage. Okay. The
last hit, the javelin turns into a bolt of

lightning, and streaks through, hits and impacts
and then just falls to the ground, the energy

expended. Jamming itself into the dirt not far
from the ground. End of your turn, Grog. Percy,

you're up.

TALIESIN: Okay, my first shot, taking a wing
shot.

MATT: All right, go for it.

TALIESIN: That's 20, that does not hit.

MATT: 20. It just ricochets off the armor.

TALIESIN: All right, that's one grit. Taking
another shot.

MATT: Okay, reload, and then shot again.

TALIESIN: That hits. 30.

MATT: 30 hits. Go ahead and roll damage.

TALIESIN: 15 points of damage. And he has to make
a strength saving throw.

MATT: Strength saving throw. That is a 19.

TALIESIN: DC is 19.

MATT: Okay, so it succeeds.

TALIESIN: It succeeds on the 19?

MATT: Yeah, you have to meet or exceed.

TALIESIN: Okay, I'm going to burn an action surge
to take a third shot.

MATT: All right. So reload, shot, reload. Go for
it.

TALIESIN: 21 does not hit?

MATT: 21 does not hit. It just steers wide,
shooting past the beating wings.

TALIESIN: Yeah, and then I'm going to just hide
behind that tree and wait for my next round.

MATT: Okay. All right. Ending your turn, Percy.
Noja is going to use the third and final Lightning

Bolt, now arcing up to the entity. Makes its save
with a 27. All right, bringing us to-- 8d6. 13

points of lightning damage against Umbrasyl from
Noja, and Noja steps back behind, looking

exasperated and spent on some of the upper-echelon
spells at his disposal. Now it comes to--

actually, at the end of Noja's turn, Umbrasyl's
going to use its last legendary action to make one

more tail swipe at you, Grog.

TRAVIS: Yup.

MATT: That is going to be a 29 to hit.

TRAVIS: Yeah.

MATT: All righty. You take-- that's really bad.
That's 11 points of bludgeoning damage reduced to five.

TRAVIS: I stay up?

MATT: Yeah, you stay up.

(loud clanging sound from Skype)

MATT: What's happening over there?

LIAM: Taliesin!

MATT: All right. Top of Umbrasyl's turn. See if
this recharges. Umbrasyl is going to attempt to

move to the left.

LIAM: Yeah, try it, buddy. Internal damage.

SAM: The rod supports 8,000 pounds of pressure.

MATT: Correct. If the creature pushes against it,
it must make a DC 30 strength check to move the

rod up to ten feet in a single round. So. Nope.

LIAM: That thing's fixed in space.

MATT: It goes to move and (grunts) and is feeling
something tear through on the inside of its area

so it stops with this sharp pain. Takes one point
of damage, but the warning is there. It does not

move. However, (laughs) the acid breath did
recharge on a five. It's going to go ahead and go

right there. Angrily lay down right there.

LAURA: No!

ASHLEY: No!

LIAM: But you're resistant.

TALIESIN: Isn't he having plummeting issues if
he's not moving?

MATT: No, if your speed is zero you plummet is how
it works.

TALIESIN: Okay.

MATT: No, they all fail. All right. They are all
right over here. Wrecked. Wrecked. Wrecked.

Wrecked.

LAURA: Where's Zanror?

MATT: Zanror's right there at the bottom.

LAURA: Where's his wife?

MATT: His wife is over here. And when I say
wrecked, they're on the ground, their flesh

dissolving and screaming in pain. The Herd has
been heavily culled in but a few rounds. There's a

little bit of horror to it. I need both Grog and
Keyleth as an earth elemental to make a dexterity

saving throw.

TRAVIS: 16.

MARISHA: I rolled a two with a minus one, so one.
Not a natural one. Rolled a two.

MATT: You both suffer 82 points of acid damage.

MARISHA: Okay.

TRAVIS: Resistance, so I halve that?

MATT: Yeah, you take 41 points of acid damage.

MARISHA: I'm in tank mode, so I'm good. I'm an
earth elemental.

MATT: Unable to move, that is the end of
Umbrasyl's turn. That's messed up.

(laughter)

MATT: Pike, you're up.

ASHLEY: I am going to cast Blindness on him.

MATT: What's the DC on the check? What is it, is
it wisdom?

ASHLEY: I think it's constitution. Constitution
saving throw.

MATT: All right, constitution saving throw. That
is 18 plus 14. 32. I think that succeeds.

LIAM: You don't know. She might've rolled a 78.

ASHLEY: You don't know! That's fine. I'm going to
move my Spiritual Weapon.

MATT: All right. So it now shifts up into space as
a bonus action, and you can make a ranged spell

attack against it as the sword arcs upward towards
Umbrasyl. Go ahead and roll, add your spell attack

modifier.

ASHLEY: 29.

MATT: That hits. Go ahead and roll damage. 1d8
plus five, correct? Pretty sure.

ASHLEY: 1d8 for every two slot levels--

MATT: You did second level for that one, because 
it was a bonus action. 1d8 plus five.

ASHLEY: Nine.

MATT: Nine points of damage against Umbrasyl.
Blade just streaks across and more sparks fly, but

this time you can see it left a carve of glowing
red mark across the scales where the blade managed

to do some damage to it. That ends your turn,
Pike. Vax, you're up. You immediately take eight

points of bludgeoning damage as it begins to crush
you from the inside.

LIAM: Okay. I'm going to use my bonus action to--
can I sneak attack this thing from inside? I'm

inside him! That's very surprising!

MATT: It's different! It's not like a soft gooey
center. All of its body is still very dense,

sinewy muscle in the vicinity. You don't know
where you are in its body, so you don't know where

the actual weak points are. So, given those
circumstances, your ability to barely move--

Probably not.

LIAM: Probably not? All right. Well. I'm going to
use my bonus action first to hit it. It's at

disadvantage?

MATT: Yes. All attacks because you're still restrained.

LIAM: Okay, so that is 19, which fucks up.

MATT: That unfortunately is not cutting through.

LIAM: And now I'm going to use the dragon sword.
Okay. That's a 21?

MATT: 21, just barely not able to cut through the
dense hide, the blade is caught on what feels like

a ligament or something, it can't quite carve
through with your body all crushed up inside.

LIAM: Well. I will, for my turn, suffocate and
also Fassbender should still be trying to

recharge.

MATT: Correct. So go ahead and roll a d6.

LIAM: d6. Four.

MATT: Four. Fassbender's still standing there. On
a five or six, it recharges. That ends Vax's turn.

Keyleth, you're up.

MARISHA: Okay. As an earth elemental I want to
drop into the earth and Earthglide.

MATT: All right. How many feet are you going?

MARISHA: With my 60 feet-- question, can I get
across and to the top of this pillar here? Maybe?

MATT: Oh, right there?

MARISHA: That one.

MATT: You can get up to there. You're wider than
the pillar, though. You like--

MARISHA: Earthglide to the top, so it's 30 feet
tall. (nervous laughter) And I'm going to use my

momentum to see if I can rocket myself out and see
if I can jump and grab onto his leg.

MATT: Okay, so you're making this a jump action, then?

MARISHA: Yeah, I want to shoot out of the pillar.

MATT: Using the momentum of the Earthglide?

MARISHA: And shoot out with a waterslide
trajectory, woo! Yeah? Maybe?

MATT: Okay. I'll say that-- It's pretty fast--
Also pretty heavy as an earth elemental.

MARISHA: I'm thinking about it real hard.

MATT: Go ahead and make an athletics check.

MARISHA: So is that strength as a--

MATT: That would be strength as an earth elemental
if you do not have a specific skill for it.

MARISHA: I'm going to use Scanlan's inspiration.
Ooh, that's good. 18 plus five, so, 23.

MATT: 23. You manage to leap and catch the bottom
of its foot.

(cheering)

MATT: You're not halting or doing anything to
Umbrasyl other than the fact that you're holding

on to--

MARISHA: But I've got his foot. And I'm heavy as
fuck. Well, if Fassbender weighs, what was it,

like 1,200 pounds? 2,800 pounds?

MATT: Yeah.

MARISHA: So I'm at least as heavy if not heavier
than Fassbender.

MARISHA: A ton is 1,000 pounds. Right?

MATT: 2,000.

MARISHA: 2,000 pounds.

LAURA: I thought a ton was 3,000 pounds.

MARISHA: None of us fucking know. Why didn't we go
metric?

MATT: The European watchers are like--

MARISHA: Yeah, what are they talking about? Okay.
I'm holding on for dear life.

MATT: All right. That ends your turn. Scanlan,
you're up.

SAM: I know from my experience going to the pubs
with Grog--

MATT: Take eight points of acid damage, by the
way, as you're slowly dissolving. Reduced to four.

SAM: I'm fine. How's my lungs?

MATT: Oh Keyleth, by the way, I need you to make a
concentration check before I forget.

MARISHA: Okay. Yeah. No, that's. Wait, do I add
anything?

MATT: Well the DC is half the damage you took from
the breath weapon, so 40. So who did you cast the

resist acid on? You're no longer resistant to
acid, Grog.

TRAVIS: Copy that.

MARISHA: Sorry.

TRAVIS: No, it came in handy for the one.

MARISHA: It did.

SAM: How's my lungs? Am I dying here?

MATT: Your air is out, you're still holding your
breath, per se, but you have one more round before

you actually probably start--

LIAM: I would like to say that Liam O'Brien, who's
a total wuss-puss, can hold his breath for like 50

seconds.

SAM: While you're screaming?

LIAM: So Vax and Scanlan should be--

MATT: You're doing okay. He screamed and released
all the air out of his lungs. So he's now

completely collapsed lungs, no air to subsist on.

SAM: I'm almost out. I'm going to see if I can
last one more round in here.

MATT: Okay, what are you doing? (laughs)

SAM: Well, as I was saying, I know from my time
drinking with Grog that any sort of blow to the

stomach will really make you barf pretty easily,
so I'm going to set off a Thunderwave at level six

and hope that he spits me up.

ASHLEY: Spits you both up, maybe.

LIAM: I'm still in its anus.

TRAVIS: We don't even know where you are, really.

SAM: You're done, friend, sorry.

MATT: All right, so at a sixth level we're looking
at 7d8 thunder damage.

SAM: Yes. Thunder damage.

MATT: Go ahead and roll that.

MARISHA: Do you need more d8s?

LIAM: All part of the plan.

SAM: Yeah, this is totally thought-out.

LIAM: The hastily smushed-together plan.

SAM: 7d8?

MATT: That is a DC, it rolled a nine plus 14, so
it succeeds.

SAM: So it'll be halved.

MATT: Half damage.

SAM: Okay.

LIAM: Eat some shit, Umbrasyl.

SAM: 25.

MATT: 25.

SAM: Only 12 points.

MATT: 12 points. I need you to make a constitution
saving throw, because you are on the other side of

the membrane from Scanlan and suddenly there's a
giant impactful forceful blow as the outside of

the stomach crushes--

LIAM: Natural 20!

(cheering)

MATT: You take 12 points of damage as well.

LIAM: (laughs) Okay, I'll take it.

MATT: Constitution saving throw on Umbrasyl's part
for-- Rolled a natural 20, so Umbrasyl's not

vomiting.

SAM: Not vomiting.

MATT: Nope, rolled a natural 20 to see if it could
hold it down. There's a boof from the inside of

the dragon--

SAM: Does a little come up and he swallows it back
down?

MATT: Basically. A little, almost.

ASHLEY: Maybe you got a little air though. For
you.

SAM: I don't know, did that make a little air?

ASHLEY: Probably give you enough time to
(inhales).

MATT: From the source of the force that probably
pushed it away for a second, air is pulled through

the esophagus instinctually as when the space
opens it has to suck through, there's this (gasp)

sound, so yes, there is a moment of air that is
pushed back out. You can see upwards a brief

little glimpse of light at the top of the
esophagus as the mouth is forced open as the air

is pulled in and the blast streaks out angrily.
Scanlan, is that your turn?

SAM: I can't do much else. Do I have any
movement?

MATT: You are restrained so your movement is
zero.

SAM: Even in the water? I'm in a womb-like state.

MATT: You're not like floating in a giant pool of
water. You're crushed against membranes with acid.

Remember the scene in Akira when Tetsuo gets too
big and the girl gets crushed briefly? You're in

that middle period right there, you're between two
folds of stomach lining and there is just acid all

around. It's awesome.

SAM: All right. Then I can't really do much. Oh!
Shit. No, I would've had to call it earlier. Never mind.

ASHLEY: What?

LIAM: I just want to remind everyone, I am really
small. I fit between muscles, bones, ligaments,

anything.

SAM: I could have done Cutting Words after I cast
my spell, but I didn't, so forget it. Shit.

MATT: At the end of your turn, it's going to use a
legendary action to do a wing attack, actually two

actions cost. Begins beating its wings rapidly in
this vicinity. I need both Grog and Pike to make

dexterity saving throws.

LIAM: Scanlan, we're safe from all this shit.

SAM: I know! This is the best place to be. We're
only going to suffocate and be crushed.

TRAVIS: 18.

ASHLEY: 18.

MATT: Both of you take 15 points of bludgeoning
damage and are thrust towards the edge of the

stone, I need you both to make strength checks to
resist the force to the blow.

MARISHA: Hold on! Nice.

TRAVIS: 21.

ASHLEY: Ten.

TRAVIS: Is 15 halved for me for the bludgeoning,
or is that already halved?

MATT: No, it's halved for you after that. However,
you both are, from the sheer force of the wind,

blown off the top--

TRAVIS: A 21?

MARISHA: What did you have to beat?

MATT: 23. Ancient dragon. You both fall and take an
additional eight points of bludgeoning damage.

ASHLEY: I'm going to use my celestial shield and
cast Featherfall.

MATT: Okay. So you take no damage from the
additional seven. You catch yourself on the ground.

TRAVIS: My eight is halved.

MATT: Yeah, you're both prone at the bottom of the
pillars. All right. That was the end of Scanlan's

turn. Back to the top, Vex, you're up.

LAURA: Okay, I'm going to try Conjure fucking
Animals again. By the way, I was wrong. My pearl

of power only works up to level three, so I don't
have two level fours, I already used the one. So.

Conjure Animals, again, two more giant eagles out
of the ether. This time I want to conjure them

like ten feet above his head.

MATT: Okay. Actually, because I didn't see you I
need you to go ahead and make a save as well,

because you were on it as it's beating its wings,
too.

MARISHA: Even though I'm holding on to his leg?

MATT: Yep. Go ahead and make a dexterity saving
throw.

MARISHA: That's not good. Four.

MATT: Four. You also take 15 points of bludgeoning
damage.

MARISHA: Halved because I'm an elemental.

MATT: And I need you to go ahead and make a
strength saving throw.

MARISHA: Strength? 19.

MATT: 19. You are blown off of the dragon's body.

MARISHA: That sucks.

MATT: Like a rock slamming into the ground.

LAURA: Oh, she knocked out a pillar on the way
down.

MATT: You take 12 points of bludgeoning damage
from the impact with the ground, leaving a small

crater. However, there are two giant eagles that
are now floating in the vicinity around the

dragon. The eagles are summoned. Their initiative
is not bad. They're going to be after Grog.

LAURA: Okay. So they're above his head now, so if
he shoots acid down, they'll be here. And their

command is, attack his eyeballs. Okay. I'm going
to use my boots of haste. For my perception, would

I be able to see any weird little bumps on the
dragon? Because my brother's been in there a

while. Can I see anything going on?

MATT: Make a perception check.

LIAM: I'm behind his left nipple. It's pretty good
already. It's pretty good.

SAM: Our earrings should work.

LAURA: I'm sorry.

SAM: We don't need to talk.

LAURA: 28. No, 29 perception.

MATT: 29? All right. You notice, on the outskirts
of like the central row of scales, there is a

small lump that is constantly struggling not far
from the surface and is just darting around like a

cartoon flea.

LAURA: I'm going to aim right by there. But not
quite at it. I want to make an opening around it.

MATT: All right. Roll for it.

LIAM: Man, remember when we used to do hopscotch?
That was the best. And then also we used to take

baths together when we were really little, but
that was when we were really little--

LAURA: 20. Doesn't hit.

MATT: 20, it hits and shatters--

ASHLEY: Can I use War God's Blessing again? I use
it every turn. Every round.

MATT: I think it's a Channel Divinity, in which
case I don't think you can. War God's Blessing,

Channel Divinity-- Which currently-- You can use
it a second time between rests. Yeah. So you can.

ASHLEY: Let's do it.

MATT: So that does hit.

LAURA: Oh, it hits?

MATT: Plus ten to the attack, so it hits.

LAURA: Oh my goodness!

TRAVIS: Pike!

LIAM: Vex'ahlia--

LAURA: Ten damage.

MATT: Let's see here, what's the range on that
one?

MARISHA: He's consulting the book again.

MATT: Just checking to see the range on that last
because it does have a range--

LAURA: He's getting my hopes up and then he's
going to dash them down to the ground.

MATT: It's what I do. Creature within 30 feet of
you makes an attack roll, so you could not,

unfortunately.

ASHLEY: What was that, say again?

MATT: Has to be within 30 feet of you. She's too
far away. So that one does miss, shatters across

the armor of the dragon. You have one more attack
and then your extra if you want to.

LAURA: That one doesn't work either. (mock-crying)
Okay, that's good. 23!

MATT: 23 hits.

LAURA: Okay. 11.

MATT: 11 points of damage.

SAM: Yeah, he's dead!

LAURA: How do I want to do this?

(laughter)

MATT: You can't summon it yourself.

LAURA: Dammit!

MATT: Sticks into and pierces through. You feel a
(impact sound) nearby. And what little bit of

vision you have in the squeezed area, dark as it
is using your elven darkvision, you can see what

looks to be a part of an arrow point that has
stuck through the armor.

LIAM: I wrap my fingers around it.

MATT: Okay. Ends Vex's turn.

SAM: You don't know if it's Vex's. It could be
anybody's!

LIAM: Shut the fuck up, gnome!

MATT: At this point, Zanror looks over to Worra
and says, "We have to go. Save our child." And

Worra looks and sees all the dead around her.
"Only if you come with me." Looks back and says,

"No. I don't run from this. I'm going to kill this
with my cousin." She turns and goes into a full

dash this way, escaping. This guy's going to go
ahead and begin to climb up. And gets partway up.

Not all the way. Take a step back and make four
arrow shots at it. That's a hit, a miss, a miss,

and a miss. Takes an additional ten points of
damage from the arrow. That guy over there is

going to move around and he's going to grab one of
the dropped chains on the ground and throw it up

to see if it can wrap around Umbrasyl. Seven does
not hit. It just arcs below and falls to the

ground. That's going to end the Herd's turn. Grog,
you're up.

TRAVIS: Still hasted. Can I stand up?

MATT: Okay, so 50 feet.

TRAVIS: And with the Titanstone Knuckles, can I
smash them together and cast Enlarge on myself?

(cheering)

TRAVIS: How tall am I?

MATT: You are twice your size, so you're pushing
about 12 feet.

LAURA: He's only six feet tall?

MARISHA: He's gotta be taller than six feet.

MATT: It's roughly half your height, not
perfect--

LIAM: You're 15 feet tall now, Grog.

LAURA: Yeah, 20 feet, you're probably 20 feet.

MARISHA: 15 sounds nicer. Rounds up.

MATT: Don't argue with the DM.

MARISHA: I'm not arguing, we're rounding up.

LIAM: You're like two feet tall now and it's
really impressive.

TRAVIS: Being that I'm hasted, can I move directly
behind Umbrasyl, like underneath him and behind?

And can I attach the chain of returning to the
Bloodaxe--

MATT: I assume it was attached before the battle.

TRAVIS: Yes. And can I throw it at Umbrasyl?

MATT: Go for it.

TRAVIS: Do I have four? No, I just have one
throw.

MATT: You have one throw. It hits and then you can
pull it back.

TRAVIS: If I want to.

MATT: Yes.

TRAVIS: Reckless.

MATT: Yes.

TRAVIS: That's even better. 29.

MATT: 29 hits. Go ahead and roll damage.

TRAVIS: 21. With one point of necrotic damage.

MATT: 21 points of damage onto Umbrasyl. All
righty. It is embedded in there. Do you want to

pull back?

TRAVIS: I don't want to pull it loose. I just want
to weigh on it.

MATT: Okay, you weigh. All right. At the end of
your turn, it's going to go ahead and make a tail

attack against one of the eagles. That is going to
be a 21 to hit.

LAURA: I bet that hits.

MATT: The giant eagle takes 20 points of
bludgeoning damage.

LAURA: I'm sure that probably kills him.

MARISHA: He has 26 hit points.

LAURA: He's got six points left.

MATT: Okay, so the eagle right there has six hit
points left.

TRAVIS: Does enlarging do anything to my damage?
Sorry.

MATT: You do an additional 1d4 damage with any
melee attacks.

TRAVIS: I didn't do that. Can I do that?

MATT: Melee attacks. Although the weapon does grow
large. I'll say go ahead and do another 1d4.

TRAVIS: Hey, four!

MATT: There you go. So that's an additional four
damage. Great. So that's the eagles' turn. What do

you got, Laura?

LAURA: They're going to fly and attack his
eyeballs! Fuck him up.

ASHLEY: Get him!

MATT: Roll attack, they have two attacks each, so
roll four attacks.

LAURA: Roll four attacks?

MATT: Yes. Plus five to each.

LIAM: That one hits.

LAURA: That's good. That hits. That one doesn't.

MATT: 23 hits.

LAURA: Ooh! Then one other attack hits.

MATT: So two hits. All right. So that is--

LAURA: So those would be, like, one beak and one
talon maybe?

MATT: It would be one beak and one talon, yeah. Go
for it. So 1d6 plus three and then 2d6 plus three.

LAURA: Nine for one on the eyeballs.

MATT: Nice.

LAURA: And eight on the talons.

MATT: Not bad. Both streaking out and clawing
heavily at the dragon. It's bothered by it very

remotely. It's more distracted with the sharp pain
in its stomach.

LAURA: Eyeballs.

MATT: Well yeah, I mean, they're striking at it,
they don't go straight for the eyeballs, the

dragon goes here, hit. They're getting near it and
scraping it, the scales around it, it's moving its

horns around and batting them away. If you wanted
to make called shots for its eyes specifically,

none of those would've hit. Outside of a natural
20, none of them would've hit. And even a dragon's

eyes have pretty decent armor.

LAURA: That's cool, okay, good to know.

MATT: So Percy, you're up. Oh, we've lost audio on
Percy.

LAURA: Oh no!

SAM: Text us your move.

TALIESIN: No, I'm good.

MATT: What are you doing?

TALIESIN: All right. I'm taking two shots. That's
all I got left.

MATT: All right. Go for it.

TALIESIN: Here we go. 23?

MATT: 23 hits.

TALIESIN: Ah! Hm. Ah. Okay. That's, eee, (broken
audio).

TRAVIS: Say that again, Perce.

TALIESIN: 20, 24 points of damage.

MATT: Nice.

TALIESIN: Six of which are necrotic. I'm taking my
second shot.

MATT: All right. Reload, second shot.

TALIESIN: Reload, fire. Fuck my life. That's
m--(audio glitches)

MATT: Misfire? Oh no. Bad News just (muffled
explosion).

TALIESIN: Putting it away, pulling out the other
gun.

MATT: All right, so that's the end of your turn?

TALIESIN: That's the end of my turn.

MATT: All right. Noja actually is getting scared,
yeah. Noja is actually hiding behind the tree and

is shaking now, his body, malnourishment that
whole time and this dragon taking all of these

blows and is still standing has gotten to his head.
Umbrasyl is going to look around in the vicinity,

you know, starting to show some wear and tear and
some serious damage to it now. And it's going to

go into a dive. As it does so, you watch as the
rod hits the edge of the body and tears through

the stomach.

LIAM: Damage.

MATT: And tears through the abdomen and out the
side of it. The immovable rod now shoots out the

side of its body.

MARISHA: That's going to be a lot of damage,
right?

LIAM: That's a fuckin' missile.

MATT: That is 37 points of piercing damage as it
ejects from the side. He is going to--

TRAVIS: I'm still attached to him, too.

MATT: Correct. As you are pulled up, let's see
here.

TRAVIS: I'm going for a ride.

MARISHA: We burned through all of his legendary
saves.

SAM: One more.

LIAM: You're attached to him? By a chain?

TRAVIS: Yup.

MATT: You, Grog, are now being lifted up. Make a
strength check.

TRAVIS: Advantage on this. 24.

MATT: 24, yeah. Umbrasyl lifts up and goes full
flying speed of 80 feet this way, carrying you

dangling beneath and is going to go into a dash
and continue to fly up towards Gatshadow.

SAM: (terrified laughter)

LIAM: He's scared.

MATT: With Scanlan and Vax inside him still.

LIAM: Work that broom, girl!

MATT: Grog dangling from beneath. And that's where
we're going to pick up the next one.

(yelling)

MATT: It's midnight!

TRAVIS: Three of us are not here next week.

MATT: Three of you are not here-- That's right. Do
you guys want to keep going then?

LIAM: Yes!

TRAVIS: It's either that or--

MATT: Or you're going to have to wait two weeks.

TRAVIS: We're not here.

LAURA: What do you guys think? Would you rather
wait two weeks?

LIAM: I want to go.

LAURA: I mean, this is you guys, too. You guys
have to stay.

SAM: You want to go, keep going?

LIAM: Keep going.

SAM: It could be a long night.

ASHLEY: Who's not here next week?

TRAVIS: Laura, Travis, and Sam.

MATT: Yeah, we're probably going to take off next
week because we're missing half the party.

SAM: Oh, so we'll just skip next week and come
back in two weeks.

LIAM: No, it's on us, because we have jobs and
getting up in the morning.

MATT: Yeah, we have work tomorrow.

SAM: Why don't we skip next week and come back in
two weeks to finish?

LAURA: I feel like that's smarter.

MATT: All right, let's do that.

LIAM: You're leaving me in this thing's anus for
two weeks?

TRAVIS: That 30 minutes fucked us.

MATT: Picking up in two weeks from now.

(yelling)

MARISHA: This is awful.

SAM: The worst cliffhanger ever.

MATT: We have the remnants of the Herd and most
of Vox Machina left behind as Umbrasyl flies off

to the peaks of Gatshadow, dragging a large
chain-held Grog beneath and a miniaturized Vax and

Scanlan inside of its body.

LIAM: Yeah, but I'm holding an arrow that's half
in and out of the dragon. So I've got a little

tunnel out.

MARISHA: Make a little breathing hole?

SAM: I see a hole that goes to the outside now.

TRAVIS: It's the shaft of an arrow.

TALIESIN: This is chaos. I will see you guys
later. I can't hear anything.

MARISHA: Bye, Taliesin! We love you!

MATT: Oh man, this is going to get real
interesting.

SAM: How are we going to survive two weeks
thinking about this? I know what we'll do! We'll

subscribe to Loot Crate and we'll find all sorts
of things to keep us-- We'll be able to play with

new toys and drink from--

(laughing)

TRAVIS: Made me drop my fucking jelly bean.

LAURA: That went south. That went seriously
south.

SAM: We're not doing well.

TRAVIS: We're doing great.

MATT: You guys did pretty good. Dragon's taken
some damage.

LIAM: Is it two Thursdays from now yet?

MATT: No, but it will be soon. All right, guys.
We'll figure out what we're doing next Thursday.

It might be another Q&A hangout session for those
of us who are still in town.

LIAM: Son of a b.

ASHLEY: Why are you guys going?

MARISHA: Are you still going to be in Puerto Rico
that long? No?

TRAVIS: No.

MATT: They got birthday events and travel to do.
It's all good. We'll be back here in two weeks,

back here next week for probably a Q&A hangout
session, two weeks from now with the dramatic

conclusion of the showdown with Umbrasyl the Hope
Devourer, member of the Chroma Conclave.

LIAM: Matt, if you were wondering what to get me
for my birthday, it's to kill my character in two weeks.

LAURA: No! That is so terrible. Don't say that.

MATT: (laughs) That's awful.

MARISHA: Such a death wish.

LIAM: Kill me.

LAURA: No.

MARISHA: Hope Devourer. Maiden name Hope. Maiden
name Hope.

LIAM: The dragon's name is Hope.

MATT: We'll see you in a few weeks? Well, some of
us will see you next week. Rest well, dream of

flying dragons digesting smaller people. (laughs)
See you guys soon. Is it Thursday yet? Good night.