MATT: Hello, everyone, and welcome to tonight's
episode of Critical Role, where a bunch of us

nerdy-ass voice actors sit around and play
Dungeons and Dragons. Yeah! Before we get started

for the day, let's get into some of our quick
announcements. First off, happy to be back. Me,

Marisha, and Taliesin were gone for a better part
of two weeks. We missed you guys. We actually met

a few Critters around the desert with us.

LAURA: Oh, really?

MATT: Yeah.

LIAM: You were in Connecticut for a week, right?

MATT: Yeah!

TRAVIS: Were they dressed up like they were from
Marquet?

MATT: Basically, yeah.

TRAVIS: Oh, really?

MATT: (laughs) It was really cool but we were
happy to be back--

TALIESIN: How do you want to burn this?

TRAVIS: Spice? Spice? Spice?

MATT: Spice? Spice? Spice? Do you spice?

LAURA: Everybody spices at Burning Man. I'm pretty
sure.

MATT: Sam will be about an hour late tonight.
Unfortunately, he has work pushing later in the

evening than normally would be, but he'll be
joining us as soon as he possibly can. So

he'll be on his way. Let's see, also a big round
of applause for Liam running an awesome one-shot

last week. Once again, well done, man.

LIAM: I just wanted to see Travis show his true
self.

TRAVIS: I don't know what you mean, sir.

TALIESIN: No spoilers!

LIAM: It worked.

MATT: Oh, it's great. Anyway, let's get back in
the swing of things here. Announcements real fast

if you want to start with this, Travis.

TRAVIS: Yes! Our week's amazing episode is brought
to you by Loot Crate! And their theme for this

month, the month of September, is Speed. They've
got amazing, high-octane titles like: Speed,

Battlestar Galactica, Iron Man, Gone in 60
Seconds, Arrow, Batman, CW's The Flash, plus many more.

LAURA: The fastest things ever!

TRAVIS: I'm telling you, like that announcement.
They got collectibles, a figure, and as always, a

monthly t-shirt that looks amazing.

MARISHA: Yeah. It's always stylish.

TRAVIS: You can get your hands on some of that
sweet, nasty Loot Crate swag by going to

www.lootcrate.com/criticalrole for $3 off your
monthly subscription. You do it. You get it. And

Goku's on the table. He stays--

LAURA: Because you bite Goku through the game. I
don't understand it.

TRAVIS: He's got pointy hair. I like chewing on
things!

MARISHA: So wait, has this been an ongoing thing.
Did this start last week and I missed it?

TRAVIS: If it's not that, it's pen or pencils. I
digress. Loot Crate, thank you!

TALIESIN: Loot Crate: you can put it in your
mouth!

TRAVIS: You can?

TALIESIN: You do! Probably shouldn't, but you can.

MATT: Marisha, did you want to talk a little bit
about a cool thing we have coming up now?

MARISHA: I do. We have a new product that we're
coming out with. We teamed up with our friends

over at Espionage Cosmetics to come out with
Critical Role nail wraps! We've got make-up now

because that's how cool we are.

LAURA: They look really, really awesome.

MARISHA: Yes, and so there's some that are blue
with our logo on them on silver. And then we have

red ones that say "How do you want to do this?"

TALIESIN: It's like a blood red with a little bit
of black splatter--

MARISHA: And they glow in the dark. What?

TRAVIS: They do?

TALIESIN and MARISHA: Yes, they do.

LAURA: Shebang! This is the blood splatter one.

MARISHA: And when you open the package, they're
brought to you--

TALIESIN: Can you do it?

MARISHA: Yeah, I got this. I always rip them. But
when you open it, they're from Gilmore's Glorious Goods.

TRAVIS: Oh snap!

LAURA: There he is on the inside.

MARISHA: Yeah, brought to you Gilmore.

MATT: Pretty fantastic.

LAURA: That's so awesome, man.

MARISHA: Uh-huh. So yes, you can go get them right
now. They are available tonight.

LAURA and MARISHA: In the store.

MATT: So you can go ahead and make sure your nails
look absolutely glorious.

MARISHA: And we tried to make them like unisex
because people like Taliesin like to rock the nail wraps.

TALIESIN: Yes I do. I love rocking nail wraps.

LAURA: I have a feeling you would rock the nails,
wouldn't you, Liam?

LIAM: Unicorn sex?

LAURA: What? Anywho, also available in the store
tonight is a plethora of new merchandise for you

guys. I know we've had a lack of it lately. Okay,
I've got to say it all because it's really

exciting. Okay, we have these badges, they come in
a set of five--

TRAVIS: Hold your badges up.

LIAM: Badges?

LAURA: Oh, I took yours. They come in a set of
five, they were limited edition at Comic Con so we

have some left and so we put them in the store.
They're super awesome. So those are available

right now, but they are limited.

TRAVIS: How do you want to do this, Gilmore's
Glorious Goods, the Slayer's Take.

LAURA: What's the other thing that's limited? Oh,
the nail wraps, right.

MARISHA: Oh, also there are Geek and Sundry nail
wraps.

TALIESIN: There also are some new Geek and Sundry
nail wraps that have a blue and white thing and

the little logo and I haven't seen if they're glow
in the dark yet and I haven't looked yet, but I

definitely have an outfit that these are going to
work with so I'm taking these home.

MARISHA: Okay.

LAURA: We also have the rings back in stock.

MARISHA: What?

LAURA: Don't, baby, don't flip off everybody. So
those we have a limited amount of-- Don't! I had a

fly on my food.

TRAVIS: A one?

LAURA: Oh no, you really did roll a one!

TRAVIS: This shit never ends.

LAURA: Those are limited. Also, something that's
going to be in store for a long time is my

favorite thing ever, the Critical Role mug. As
seen on Blindspot by Patterson. Yeah, so we

finally had these in the store and these are made
to order, but they are going to stay in the store

so order them and whatever. In addition to those,
we have things on pre-order that are going to stay

in the store for a couple weeks and that is this
amazing bracelet. You can check it all out at the

store. It's there right now. It says "How do you
want to do this?" it's got our logo on it, how

badass is that?

TRAVIS: We already have ours because they're
amazing. It's got like a raised CR too.

LAURA: And these are on pre-order too. You know
you can't see them on this shot, I'm sure it's not

close enough, but you can go on the store and you
can see an awesome view of them and they're enamel

pins of our logo and also a "How do you want to do
this?" So you can put them on your jean jacket or

your backpack or your hat.

LIAM: Like flair.

LAURA: Like flair. You can wear them on your apron
if you work at Bennigan's or TGI Fridays.

TRAVIS: Rep your CR love, we'll slap your hands.
Like in a high five, not in a bad way. Like slap hands.

LAURA: So that's all the amazingness that we
have.

LIAM: These are sick.

LAURA: That's a lot.

TALIESIN: No, I know it's been slowly building and
it's this sudden--

LIAM: Making it rain!

MARISHA: All the shit. Live crit strong.

MATT: That's Travis for the rest of the game.

TRAVIS: My OCD wife will slaughter me.

LAURA: Yeah, I really will.

MATT: Good. It never ceases to be the strangest
thing to see a phrase that I organically made up

in my home game is now on patches and pins. It's
so weird. That's so weird.

TALIESIN: I'm glad that we finally have these. We
had to fight to get these at Comic Con.

MATT: Yeah.

(phone notification beep)

LAURA: Who didn't silence their phone?

MARISHA: It's always Tal.

TALIESIN: It's Sam, though!

LAURA: Oh, is he here?

TALIESIN: He's heading this way in about 20
minutes, so he should be here 20 minutes after that.

LIAM: He's just leaving El Segundo.

MATT: All right guys, that being the case, let's
go ahead and bring it down unless we have any

other announcements. Do we have anything else?

TRAVIS: Negative.

LAURA: No. No, no, no.

MATT: All right, let's bring it in after a two
week pause to the main story of Vox Machina,

tonight's episode of Critical Role.

[dramatic music]

MATT: Welcome back. So, last we left off, Vox
Machina, in their perpetual quest to take down the

Chroma Conclave and the path of destruction
they've swept across all of Tal'Dorei and

continents beyond, they found themselves going to
the continent of Marquet, across the central

desert, meeting the parents of Gilmore, and coming
to the city, the jewel of Marquet known as

Ank'Harel. You found yourself wandering the
streets, meeting curious individuals. Our gnome

apparently has made a spice deal that is to come
to fruition at some point in the near future. In

search of the bearer of one of the Vestiges of
Divergence you have been seeking, in preparation

of your battle with Thordak, as well as seeking
allies in this strange, new interesting city.

Through the continuous and perpetual threat of
evil forces in the world, you found a hookah bar

and got fuzzy drunk on a form of sandkheg-based
liquor. You learned a bit about the city, about

the culture, you learned from Jarett some good
possible tips on how to engage with the people

around the town.

LAURA: Oh, be pleased.

MATT: Yes, be pleased.

LIAM and TRAVIS: Beep-beep.

MATT: And you guys made your way towards the
Cerulean Palace in the center of the city. After

being balked by the Hand of Ord upon arrival you
were then greeted by the Grand Maven and given

entry to the Cerulean Palace. Upon passing up a
large translucent blue tower, above the city of

Ank'Harel-- not Emon, I was tired--

MARISHA: We knew what you meant.

MATT: I know, I figured you guys would be all
right with that. And eventually opened into a

central chamber at the very top of this tower that
overlooks the majority of the desert from this

position that you can see. There were large
windows across the entirety of this circular room,

there was a raised platform in the center, balcony
across the opposite way, and sitting atop this

throne in the center made of brass and sapphire
you met an individual, seemingly the ruler for a

long time of this city. The androgynous
long-living figure known as J'mon Sa Ord. And that

is we're picking up this--

TRAVIS: And the Grand Maven took us up there?

MATT: Yes.

MARISHA: And we saw him and we met him, right? He
was like "hello."

MATT: Just greeted you when we left off.

LAURA: He knew who we were.

MARISHA: Right.

MATT: He? She? You're not quite sure what the sex
is of this figure specifically. The fine features,

elongated limbs, and long dark hair seem to
deflect trying to pin down a lot of details about

the history or source of where this individual
came from. However, they have risen from the

throne, bowed deeply, and greeted you, "Welcome to
Ank'Harel, heroes of Tal'Dorei. I am J'mon Sa Ord.

"It is my pleasure to greet you," and gave you a
soft bow. "Your arrival has not escaped my

"whispers and I'm curious if your presence means
what I think it means."

LAURA: What do you think it means exactly?

MATT: "I have heard our skyport access to Emon was
balked by dragon attack. I would hope the problem

"would be sorted by now for the purposes of our
vast trade network. And you've arrived, I hope

"with good news."

TRAVIS: Oh, yeah, it's like a mixed bag. A little
good, a little bad.

MARISHA: Hmm, I'd say it's mostly bad.

TRAVIS: It's mostly bad.

TALIESIN: It's good news in progress.

MARISHA: Hmm, mostly bad.

TALIESIN: My version of good news in progress.

LAURA: We are making headway. We've taken down
one.

TALIESIN: We have a problem that, as far as I
know, has never been accounted for in the

history of civilization. The dragons are
cooperating with one another. We are fighting not

one dragon, but a conclave of dragons. All
cooperating towards the destruction and

sublimation of man.

MARISHA: It seems as if this is an extermination.

LIAM: Mostly successful.

TALIESIN: Mostly.

LAURA: They mostly come at night.

TRAVIS: Mostly.

TALIESIN: They plan at dawn.

MATT: "So you say these dragons are working
together, attacking and destroying. I assume they

"are of the chromatic origin then?"

LAURA: Yes.

MATT: "Working together is quite strange. Hmm.
What else can you tell me of this threat?"

LAURA: A great ancient red one known as the Cinder
King is sitting on Emon.

MARISHA: He appears to be their leader.

TALIESIN: He was released somehow from the Plane
of Fire.

LAURA: By a green dragon, Raishan.

MATT: "Raishan. I do not recognize this name. What
is the name of the red you speak of, this Cider King?"

TRAVIS: Thordak.

MATT: There's a subtle reaction from the creature
before you. Draws back and narrows their gaze a

bit at the mention of the name. "Thordak, yes.
(scoffs) I recall this name. A foolish drake from

"the Scaldwind Sands who saw, unwisely, to threaten
my domain many years ago. We cut his heart and

"watched him sink beneath the ocean. This creature
you speak of, I do not think it is the same

"Thordak."

TRAVIS: No?

MARISHA: Why wouldn't it be?

MATT: "Because I watched him die."

TRAVIS: Oh! But our Thordak, he has like this
thing that is at the center of his chest right?

It's like a jewel.

LAURA: It's replaced his heart, potentially.

TRAVIS: And if you sliced his original maybe he
upgraded.

TALIESIN: Or perhaps someone brought him back to
life.

LAURA: Not unheard of.

MATT: "So this beast that harries you, you are
certain it goes by the name Thordak?"

LAURA: Certain.

MATT: "What proof do you have of this being the
same beast?"

TALIESIN: Other than his heart obviously having
been previously maimed in some way, we have no

proof that it could be the same beast. We were not
here. But even if it isn't the same beast, the

fact that a dragon takes its name should trouble
you.

LIAM: And we've heard of your success before and
were hoping you could offer us a little guidance.

TALIESIN: It is an old dragon--

MATT: "The Thordak that came to war here was not
quite as large and powerful as you seem to

"say this one is."

LAURA: How long ago was it?

MATT: "This was centuries ago, the city was but
maybe 100, 150 years at the time."

LAURA: He could have grown by then.

MARISHA: Yes, I'm afraid we're not talking about a
drake anymore, we're talking about an ancient,

full-grown dragon.

TALIESIN: God knows how time works in the Fire
Elemental Plane, he may be much older than time

has allowed.

TRAVIS: With respect, you were here centuries
ago?

MATT: The creature known as J'mon Sa Ord, they
steeple their fingers and glance over to you-- at

head height with you practically, even stepping
down from the platform.

TRAVIS: Oh shit.

MATT: "I have been here for some time, yes."

TRAVIS: I've got to get your diet sometime, that's
amazing.

TALIESIN: Grog, in general it is impolite to query
the age of any being. In general.

TRAVIS: Oh right.

TALIESIN: I would have assumed you would know that
by now.

TRAVIS: (stammers) Beep-beep.

MATT: The still-narrowed black eyes, with a tiny
pinpoint of molten metal peeking through, relax.

The arms go from a steepled position to a cross
and now a look of curiosity comes across their

face. "If this is truth, then how do you plan to
fell this everburning worm?"

LAURA: That is the question, isn't it? We're
collecting items. Vestiges of power. Hopefully

with them in tow, we will be able to gather armies
to combat Thordak. We know we can't take him on

alone.

TALIESIN: We're also gathering allies and we've
already destroyed several of his companion

dragons.

MATT: "You have?"

TALIESIN: We have.

LAURA: Well, a couple.

TRAVIS: And we did recon on a third.

TALIESIN: Preparing to kill a white dragon.

MATT: "So am I to understand that you are
spearheading this endeavor?"

MARISHA: Well. It's sort of unofficially.

TALIESIN: We're as surprised as anyone, yes.

MARISHA: You know, we didn't necessarily ask for
this, it just fell in our lap.

TRAVIS: It fell on our city, actually.

MARISHA: Yeah, that's true. Our keep came crashing
down on around us and then we were committed.

MATT: "Very well, then what do you want from J'mon
Sa Ord?"

TALIESIN: Perhaps, if it comes to it, a little bit
of help possibly collecting the Vestige that we

are looking for in this city, that we are
currently, hopefully, collecting and being on our

way with, causing as little noise in the city as
humanly possible. We are aware that is complicated

for people like us. And perhaps an ally in the
coming battles to come. It may, I would imagine,

please you to perhaps meet these dragons on
foreign shores as opposed to in your city walls.

LAURA: It's only a matter of time. If we can't
defeat them in Emon, he will spread his

territory.

TALIESIN: If it is the dragon that you remember, he
will come here, and if it isn't the dragon you

remember, the fact that he took that name means
that he will come here.

MATT: "This city is well protected. I am not
worried about this dragon or dragons you speak. I

"am protector here and we are warded against such
threats."

LIAM: But you would like to awaken trade with Emon
again, yes?

MATT: "This does interest me as there is quite a
stake in the roads we've built with Tal'Dorei."

LIAM: Is there anything you can share with us from
your encounter back then? It would help.

MATT: "The creature once known as Thordak had
begun to grow tired of his meager dominion in the

"Scaldwind Sands, began to reach out with his many
feral kobold armies and various serpentine

"followers, decided that the very jewel of our city
was perhaps a good throne to sit upon. And, much to

"its foolish intent, attacked not knowing what it
was after. We struck down its armies and for two

"weeks there was battle between the skies of here
and the northern mountains before we took a fell

"strike against the beast. It escaped to the north
and attempted to flee beyond the ocean's waters,

"but we caught up to it, struck it down, and
watched it fall into the fathoms. If this is the

"same beast you say, then it is uncanny it could
survive such an encounter and would say it is even

"more dangerous having learned from these past
struggles."

LIAM: Do you think you simply wore it down or was
there some angle you used?

MATT: "I have my ways. We have our ways. Well, you
wish my aid?"

TALIESIN: We do.

MATT: "You go running into the furnace and you
wish me to be at your side?"

LAURA: Well, we don't run into the furnace
willingly.

TRAVIS: Or hastily.

TALIESIN: The furnace is the only exit. We wish to
just borrow an asbestos coat.

MATT: "Hmm." There's a brief pause as J'mon looks
past and seems to peer through each of you,

scanning back and forth with those strange smoldering
pupils.

TRAVIS: Uh-oh.

MATT: "You look able-bodied and strong of will.
However, I have watched many of your kind with

"these same traits waltz into oblivion before. I
will not risk myself or my city by backing a

"fool's whim. Show me what you are capable of,
fellows of Vox Machina. Show the Soul of the

"Desert Jewel what you are capable of." And J'mon
Sa Ord begins to step back--

(mechanical whirring)

MATT and LAURA: What is that?

LIAM: What strange powers do you wield?

TALIESIN: He's using a hydraulic pump! He's an
imagineer!

TRAVIS: He's omnipotent!

MARISHA: It's animatronic!

TRAVIS: That was like the best sound cue ever.

MATT: You hear the cracking and the rumbling of
something in the distance as J'mon Sa Ord steps

back and fades from view.

LAURA: Ugh, come on!

MATT: You hear a latching of stone behind you as
it seems the Grand Maven has stepped back into the

platform you arrived in and closed it behind you.

TRAVIS: Oh good.

MATT: Another loud crack hits the air around you
(loud grinding) and you watch as, over past the

other side of the room where the balcony stands, a
looming shadow plummets out from seemingly the

sky itself and lands, smashing onto the marble
floor of the exterior, its silhouette humanoid,

but swollen, across the sunlight that's pushing
past from beyond.

TRAVIS: Sam is here, somebody go get Sam! Sam's at
the door.

MATT: Blue dust and pebbles tumble across the
archway from the balcony to your side coming to

rest. The shape squeezes through the balcony arch
into the room. What you see is a thick-limbed

silhouette marching into the throne chamber, a
15-foot-tall armored structure of intricate

decorated cobalt plates and iron bulk dragging a
massive cleaver-like blade with one arm and a

clenched boulder-like fist in the other. Two
burning white flames flare as eyes within its

solid helmet. I need you all to roll initiative.

TRAVIS: What? Man, you just got back in town!

LAURA: We just got here!

LIAM: Fetch the gnome!

MARISHA: The gnome is just in time.

TRAVIS: And a map?

LAURA: Why don't we have Fassbender with us?

MARISHA: Oh yeah, where is Fassbender?

TALIESIN: Fassbender is busy being a good guy.

MARISHA: Fassbender's with Wilhand.

ALL: Hey!

LAURA: Sam, we're all going to die!

MARISHA: We just rolled initiative.

SAM: So I have some questions for the leader of--
oh, what?

TRAVIS: Some shit went down, he asked us--

SAM: I know. I'm with this.

TALIESIN: I brought you some stickers from Burning
Man.

SAM: Thank you.

TRAVIS: I got you.

MATT: Apparently the character minis were not
brought to the table. Be with you in a moment when

those arise.

LIAM: Got to shake off that Burning Man.

MARISHA: He's like a big iron samurai.

TALIESIN: That is everything I've ever hoped for.

LIAM: Percy wishes he created that.

TALIESIN: I am definitely having a little bit of
Tony Stark porn moment right now. I want to wear

it like a suit.

MATT: Initiative orders. 25 to 20.

LAURA: Anybody? 25 to 20?

SAM: Wait, let me roll this.

LAURA: Wait, let me see. Oh, I think he got
something good. No.

LIAM: What did you roll? What did you roll, Grog?

TRAVIS: 17.

MATT: 25 to 20. No one? 20 to 15.

TALIESIN: 18.

LAURA: 17.

LIAM: 19.

LAURA: Oh, I was wrong. 14. I added wrong. Shit.

LIAM: 19.

TRAVIS: 17.

MATT: What did you get, Percy?

TALIESIN: 18.

MATT: 18, right. Okay, so Vax, Percy, Grog.

TRAVIS: That thing is huge.

MATT: All right, 15 to ten.

MARISHA: 12.

SAM: 14.

LAURA: 14 as well! All right, here we go. And then
a fucking 20 again as soon as I--

SAM: (sings dramatic music)

TALIESIN: The sound of you slowly dying.

LAURA: What are those clear blocks? Are those
glass?

MATT: Those are the windows.

TALIESIN: That's like the DND version of those
awful glass bricks from the 80s.

MATT: Keyleth, 12?

MARISHA: Yeah, 12.

MATT: All right and what did you get again?

LAURA: 14.

SAM: And he's a test? We're not to kill anyone
else in the room?

MARISHA: Right.

TALIESIN: I don't think he's real, we just have to
kill him.

MATT: As the entity bursts its way into the room,
its flaming eyes flare. Vax, you have the

beginning of this encounter, what do you want to
do?

LIAM: Going to click the boots together and I'm
going to slide over this way, between those two

windows I'm closest to.

MATT: Between there?

LIAM: Yeah. All the way to the wall.

MATT: All the way to the wall?

LIAM: Yeah.

MATT: Right there?

LIAM: Yeah.

TRAVIS: (singing) To the windows!

LIAM: I'm going to dagger and dagger and dagger
him. Okay, first one is 24.

MATT: Hits!

LIAM: Second one I'm going to reroll with Luck.
Second one-- Balls! It's 16.

MATT: Is this your last Luck of the day? Because
you haven't rested.

LIAM: That's two. That's my second. I've been checking
them off.

MATT: Second? Okay.

LIAM: The third one is 24 as well.

MATT: All right, so what was it? 24?

LIAM: It was 24, 15 or 16, and 24 again.

MATT: So second one misses. The first and last
hit.

LIAM: First and last. Okay. Give me the pyramid
and I go and get nine, plus I have advantage so I

get sneak attack, so that's nine plus 14, 19, 20,
26, 30-- 36 for the first.

MATT: What was that?

TRAVIS and LIAM: 36.

LIAM: And the second gets ten.

MATT: All right, 46 points of damage, first round
of attacks from Vax. Well done. The blades hit and

streak off, and you can see portions of the iron
plates between the cobalt armor seem to have

carved grooves into them and it's actually made an
impact on the outside of the creature. That end

your turn?

LIAM: That ends my turn.

MATT: All right, Percy, you're up.

TALIESIN: Okay, I'm going to, first of all, cast
Hex on this creature.

TRAVIS: Attaboy!

LAURA: Thanks for the reminder, because now I'm
going to do Hunter's Mark.

TALIESIN: Going to cast my Hex and then I'm going
to start gentle. I'm going to take three shots

with the Retort pistol, including the first one is
going to be an attempt at a headshot.

MATT: Okay.

TALIESIN: So that's a burn a grit. Come on, I know
it's been two weeks. Don't be angry. Don't be a

cat, be a dog, just be happy to see me. And it's happy
to see me! That's a 31.

MATT: 31 hits.

TALIESIN: My cats were not happy. That's terrible!
Hold on. Sorry. That's 12 points of piercing

damage-- oh no, sorry, that's seven points of
piercing damage, five points of necrotic damage.

And he has disadvantage on strength checks.

MATT: Okay! Disadvantage on strength checks.

TALIESIN: And he has to make a constitution saving
throw.

MATT: Okay. That is a 22.

TALIESIN: I don't like him.

MATT: As a note: the first shot, it hits the head
and bounces off, seemingly no effect. There's a

little bit of necrotic seep into the armor that
seems to have affected it to a small extent, but

the bullets seem to have almost no effect on its
form.

TRAVIS: Really?

SAM: But Liam's did?

TALIESIN: No, yeah, Liam's not doing piercing
damage.

LAURA: Yes he does, he does piercing damage. But
it seemed to get through less than--

LIAM: Magic?

MARISHA: Are your bullets not magic?

TALIESIN: The bullets are not magic. My bullets
are bullets!

SAM: Maybe it's because they're projectiles?

TALIESIN: Okay, good to know! That could go really
poorly!

MARISHA: Is he made of metal? Or is he a big dude
in a metal suit?

TALIESIN: We don't know.

MATT: You don't know.

TALIESIN: So that's good to know. I'm going to
take another shot at the helmet for a headshot.

MATT: Okay.

TRAVIS: Spread. Out.

LAURA: Where? I don't even see where we are!

TRAVIS: We're over there, in front of the throne.

TALIESIN: 27.

MATT: 27 hits!

TALIESIN: Better! 16 points of piercing damage,
three points of necrotic. And another constitution

saving throw.

MAT: Constitution saving throw. That is an 18.

TALIESIN: He now has disadvantage on attacks until
the end of his next turn.

MATT: Okay. This one does hit the head, and it
seems to knock it off to the side and one of the

flames flutters for a second, but leaves no impact
or damage against the helmet.

TRAVIS: You are kidding me. So is it fair to say
that 16 points of damage didn't happen?

TALIESIN: At the moment, I'm blowing bullets not
for damage; I'm blowing bullets for effect at the

moment. This is all effect-based, I'm not trying
to damage him right now.

MARISHA: (singing) She blinded me with science!

TALIESIN: (singing) Blinded me with science! I
have one more shot, so I guess I'm going to take

it. And for shits and giggles, I'm going to take a
Sharpshooter shot.

MATT: Okay.

TALIESIN: Fuck me. 19. 27?

MATT: 27 hits.

TALIESIN: 21 points of piercing damage, four
points of necrotic.

MATT: Okay. Once again it ricochets off with a
flash of sparks and energy. You can see the

necrotic seems to have left this slight burn
against the plate, but the bullet has left no

groove in the armor.

TALIESIN: All right, that's cool. I'm putting the
gun down, and I'm going to back up. I'm going to

pull to my left. And I'm going to try and get
against the wall, not the glass!

MATT: All righty. End of your turn?

TALIESIN: End of my turn.

MATT: Grog, you're up.

TRAVIS: It's time to wake up, boys and girls! So I
would like to rage. Am I in front of the throne?

That's me, right? That big, proud fuck over there?
Can I run as far as my little feet can carry me,

over in front of Percy and more towards along the
wall?

MATT: Okay, so. (counting) 50 is where you can get
right there.

TRAVIS: Yeah, that's cool. I'm cool with that. I'm
not in front of that window, right? More in front

of the wall?

MATT: It's just to the right of you.

TRAVIS: Okay, sweet. May I attach the Chain of
Returning to my bloodaxe, and throw it at said

giant bastard?

MATT: You may! What is the range on it?

TRAVIS: 120 feet, on the Chain of Returning. Yes.
No. Is that right?

MATT: No, that's not right. I thought it was 30,
it's a pretty short distance to throw it.

TRAVIS: Oh shit, is it? I don't have it!

SAM: It's like a thousand feet.

TRAVIS: We're a little rusty.

LAURA: How tall would you say this guy is?

MATT: This guy? 15 feet.

LAURA: He's 15 feet tall, Grog. 15 feet.

TRAVIS: Uh-huh. Chain of Returning! It doesn't
say! It must be attached. Melee weapon. Thrown.

Bonus action: athletics strength check provided to
pull the thing out. No distance. It's even

laminated.

MATT: Okay. It's a 30-foot distance, just like
most throwing weapons would be.

TRAVIS: Damn it. You know what? Since I'm raging,
I take out the Javelin of Lightning and I'll throw that!

MATT: All righty!

TRAVIS: That'll work. Oh, and I'll make it a
reckless attack. That's good because that's a two.

And that's a four.

LAURA: Oh my god, is this is the dice that was
fucking you last week!?

TRAVIS: Yeah, but I've got a lot to-- no, it's
not! Don't start with your juju. It's 18.

MATT: 18. As you throw the javelin, it hits the
shoulder pauldron and scrapes off, firing out of

the balcony, and over the edge

LAURA: No! Accio Lightning Javelin. He just lost
the Lightning Javelin out the window.

SAM: Jesus. We'll get it later, we'll go get it
later.

TALIESIN: That's what you get for playing with it
in the house.

TRAVIS: That ends my turn.

LIAM: Six seconds later: (screams).

(laughter)

MARISHA: Sorry, Steve!

LIAM: "I'm all right!"

MATT: All righty. It is now the cobalt golem's
turn.

LAURA: Okay. I like how we're clustered right
there. It's fun, it's really fun. Yay.

MATT: It's dragging the cleaver behind it,
scraping it across the grounds of this palace room

as it moves. As it comes sauntering up, its large
leg movement, taking large strides against the

floor, leaving a small crack under each footfall.
It turns around. The blade isn't getting ready to

fight, instead its flames curl up and darken, and
you watch as its neck opens up to this dark space

underneath and it (roars). This fume of purplish
blue mist seems to spill out in front of it.

LAURA: No!

TRAVIS: Oh no, he's reaching for something.

LAURA: Oh no! Area of effect.

SAM: As he attacks, can I use Cutting Words to
reduce the attack?

LAURA: Yeah, Scanlan, do that!

MATT: You are more than welcome to try.

TRAVIS: That's a no.

SAM: I'll try.

MATT: So you use your Cutting Words.

SAM: Yeah, I say to him, oi! Your face is so ugly
I'm considering casting Blindness on myself so I

don't have to look at it!

(laughter)

MATT: Okay. Go ahead and roll the dice.

SAM: A ten or an eight?

MATT: d10, it's whatever your bardic inspiration
is.

SAM: Hey, six!

MATT: Has no affect on it, unfortunately. All right, I
need Vex, Keyleth and Scanlan to make

constitution saving throws.

LAURA: Oh no! I hate constitution saving throws!

TALIESIN: That's not terrible.

SAM: I got a natural 20!

MATT: Damn, all right!

MARISHA: 17 total.

LAURA: 19.

MATT: Okay. This is a lot of dice I've got to roll
here, so let me--

LAURA: Oh no! How many is a lot?

MATT: (counting) So as the poisonous fumes fill
the space, you can feel it burning the outside of

your skin, filling your lungs. You guys start
coughing as the horrible burning sensation in your

interior begins to fill your entire experience
right now. Scanlan, you manage to pull aside and

close your nose just in time, but it still burns
your exterior. You take 26 points of poison

damage, Scanlan. That is 55 points of poison
damage to both Vex and Keyleth.

LAURA: On a 19? I didn't save?

MATT: 20 DC. You missed it by one.

MARISHA: Did you say 55? That just dropped me by
half my hit points.

LAURA: Yeah, basically me too. More than half.

MATT: That's going to end its turn. Vex, you're
up.

TRAVIS: Least you fell in love before you died.

(laughter)

LAURA: Is he within five feet? Can I get away from
him?

MARISHA: Fuck you, Travis.

MATT: You would take an attack of opportunity if
you do.

One more rogue level.

LAURA: I'm going to hope that he doesn't hit me
and I'm going to try and run away from him.

TALIESIN: He has disadvantage.

LAURA: Okay, does he?

TALIESIN: Yeah, he has disadvantage on swinging at
you.

MATT: He does, yes. So as you start rushing away,
the one lax arm holding the cleaver goes (cleaver

slamming) and comes down over her head like a
giant, thick, three-and-a-half-foot-wide blade of

solid iron. With disadvantage, that's 25 to hit.

SAM: Whoa! This is a powerful fighter!

LAURA: He hits me. Watch me die right now!

MARISHA: He's right, we're not ready. We're stupid
assholes, oh God!

TRAVIS: We're going to do drugs in your lounges
for the rest of our lives.

LAURA: If he kills me right now, I'm going to be
so pissed.

MATT: You take 29 points of bludgeoning damage.
Not bludgeoning, sorry, slashing damage, as the

blade strikes down, slicing right across your
front torso, nearly throwing you to the ground and

you can already feel the blood fill up in your
mouth and begin to drip down the side of your

chin, but you do manage to pull away from him.
Where do you want to move?

LAURA: Oh my dear lord! I'm going to run around
behind the throne but I'm going to shoot him as

I'm doing it. I'm going to shoot him from there
and then I'm going to keep going. But I'm going to

shoot him with-- hopefully, the lightning actually
does something, because I'm going to shoot him

with the Lightning Arrow. And I'm doing it at a
fourth level.

MATT: All right.

LAURA: So I roll. Attack as normal. Okay. Oh no!
Shit, what is that? 22? 22.

MATT: 22 hits. Go ahead and roll damage on that.
So it's normally 4d8, but you did it at a higher

level, so it's 5d8 points of lightning damage.

MARISHA: Wait, why was it higher? Did you do it at
a higher level?

LAURA: Yeah.

MARISHA: Okay, okay.

LAURA: 19.

MATT: 19 points of lightning damage. The lightning
streaks into it as the arrow hits and the

lightning begins arcing through its armor. It
bursts outwards. Keyleth, I need you to make a

dexterity saving throw.

LAURA: Oh shit! Keyleth, I'm so sorry!

SAM: Why?

MATT: Because she's within ten feet of the
creature.

MARISHA: No, it's fine. I'm good. Dexterity save?

LAURA: No, it's a fucking lightning arrow, I never
use it.

MARISHA: 11.

MATT: 11. You take nine points of lightning-- no,
it's 2d8. So you roll 2d8 damage.

MARISHA: Does my spell resistance armor help with
this? I've got advantage.

LAURA: Just eight little old points.

MARISHA: Does my advantage from spell resistance
on my armor help with this?

MATT: It is technically a spell--

MARISHA: So can I roll again?

MATT: Go ahead and roll again.

MARISHA: Oh, that's better! 21.

MATT: So yes, you take half damage. So take four
points of lightning damage.

LAURA: Yay! See, that's nothing!

MARISHA: Feels good.

LAURA: Now you feel alive.

MARISHA: Yeah, I'm awake.

LAURA: And I'm going to keep running and go behind
the throne.

MATT: That's as far as you can get at 30 feet.

LAURA: I'm going to stay right there.

MATT: Unless you want to run past this way.
(counting) You can get over there.

LAURA: Okay. Sure.

MATT: Knowing you and your movement situation, you
would have probably taken the more direct route

because you were going to get hit regardless.

MARISHA: So lightning radiated off of him?

MATT: Scanlan.

SAM: So it did not hurt him at all?

MATT: The lightning hurt him, it arced through him
and it seemed to react to the impact.

LAURA: He's metal. He's made of metal.

SAM: Okay, before I go, because I wasn't in the
room, did J'mon Sa Ord say this is a test?

ALL: Yes.

SAM: Okay.

TRAVIS: He said, show me what you can do.

MARISHA and TALIESIN: Show me what you've got!

SAM: Okay, I'm out of range so he can't swipe me
as I walk away, right?

MATT: As far as you know. It's a long blade.

SAM: Then I'll stay put.

MATT: You saw the blade slam down towards Vex and
it slammed a few inches away from you so you're

right on that maybe/maybe not edge.

SAM: Let's not risk that. So I'll Hand Cone up.
Otiluke's Resilient Sphere to trap the beast.

LAURA: Yes!

MARISHA: Go, Scanlan!

MATT: Let me pull this up real fast.

LAURA: Please let this work.

TALIESIN: No, it's a good plan.

LAURA: It's enough to heal up and get ready.

MATT: A creature of object size Large or smaller.
This is technically a Huge creature.

SAM: He's Huge, I thought you said he was 15
feet!

MATT: 15 feet tall. He himself is about 15 or
so--

SAM: (groans dramatically)

MATT: A Medium creature's about six to seven feet
average. A Large creature is about ten to 12.

SAM: I have perfectly huge balls.

TALIESIN: You have big balls, not Huge.

SAM: They're Large or smaller.

MATT: So as soon as you start casting the spell
you look at the size and think, this isn't going

to fit in one of my spheres.

SAM: Okay, so I ditch that. And because I saw
lightning work I'm going to-- well, then I'm going

to have to move. Can I hit him now without hitting
Keyleth or do I have to move for that?

MATT: You can because he's wide enough you can go
that way.

SAM: I'll just Lightning Bolt, then. Level three
Lightning Bolt.

MATT: All righty. With advantage on its save, that
is a 16 dexterity saving throw.

SAM: It's a saving throw?

MATT: Yeah, against your Lightning Bolt, to see if it
manages to dodge out of the way.

SAM: Does my Cutting Words affect that at all?

MATT: No, Cutting Words is to reduce the attack of
another creature.

SAM: No, but because I'm armed with Mythcarver,
when I use it, my target gets disadvantage on his

next saving throw.

MATT: Correct, its saving throw is still a 16,
your DC is way higher, it failed.

SAM: Oh, okay.

MATT: This is a big creature, it's not very
dexterous. It can't dodge quickly, it's like

(groaning), it's like a small moving tank.

SAM: So 8d6 then.

MATT: Correct.

SAM: 24.

MATT: 24 points of lightning damage. The bolt of
energy arcs out from your finger, passing Keyleth.

You shake from the nearby impact, your body still
a little numb from the previous electrical hit. It

blasts the front as the arc from Vex's attack
begins to wear off, this time the energy coursing

through its entire body. You can see as it tries
to lift the blade up for another attack it almost

drops the blade from the impact, but it stays firm
and shrugs it off, but you can see the darkened

period across its body where the electric bolts
are beginning to take effect across its physical form.

SAM: Okay, I'll use that opportunity to back away
and hope it doesn't get me.

MATT: You back away, and you're out of range for
it to try to make a strike at you. You can keep

moving if you want.

SAM: Yeah, I'll go all the way to the wall.

MATT: All the way to the wall?

SAM: Yeah, but not the glass. God, who's coming up
next? I will inspire Grog, he hasn't happened yet, right?

LAURA: Yeah, Grog's coming up soon.

SAM: I will inspire him with a hastily written
limerick. Okay, ready?

Kevdak had these terrible knuckles.

They beat up on Grog while he chuckled.

But while Kevin laughed,

Grog sliced him in half

And said, "These are mine now, fuckles!"

(laughter)

MATT: Those are all words that you can kind of
understand! So you take your inspiration dice.

TRAVIS: Amazing!

LAURA: I like how his name was Kevin halfway
through the limerick.

TRAVIS: Fuckles. Is that a d10 or a d12?

MATT: d10. So that's the end of your turn?

SAM: That is all I can do.

MATT: All right, Keyleth, you're up.

MARISHA: Okay, seeing that the lightning is doing
some damage, I am going to cast Call Lightning at

fourth level.

MATT: Okay.

MARISHA: I'm going to take a step back first,
actually.

LAURA: He'll get a swipe at you.

LIAM: There's a five foot square.

LAURA: Yeah, this is true, but at disadvantage he
still got me at 25 before.

LIAM: Yes, but you're ten feet away though.

MARISHA: Just five feet, I want to shift back five
feet.

MATT: Okay.

MARISHA: I can do that without getting a swipe,
right?

MATT: He's already used his reaction to strike.

MARISHA: Aw, sick! I'll back it up a little bit
more, there's good, no right there's fine, yeah.

And I'm going to cast Call Lightning, fourth
level.

MATT: All right, the very top-- and this chamber
comes to this large, dome-like precipice at about

60 feet up-- upwards you see a skylight series of
glass begins to fill with dark clouds, swirling.

As Keyleth's concentrating, her eyes fog over
white. What are you going to do?

MARISHA: Right on his head!

MATT: As Keyleth focuses, she brings her arm down
and one singular bolt coalesces, strikes down

right onto his head. What's the DC on the spell?

MARISHA: 19.

MATT: All right. Nope. He rolled a 19 and failed.
He's got a minus one on his dex save. He's a slow

guy. So he takes 3d10 lightning damage. Go ahead
and roll that.

MARISHA: 4d10 because I cast it at fourth level.

MATT: That's right, 4d10, because it's fourth
level.

SAM: He's got 500 hit points.

LAURA: He's got so many.

MARISHA: Three, six, not great. Eight, so make
that-- what's six plus eight? 14 plus five, 19

points of lightning damage.

MATT: 19 points of lightning damage strikes into
its head, and you see it has to fall back onto its

back leg to right itself, and its growling sounds
like creaking of metal and stone against each

other.

MARISHA: And with that, I'm going to use my free
action to go earth elemental form.

MATT: Bonus action, you mean?

MARISHA: Yes.

TRAVIS: "My free action!"

LAURA: Is that what you said? "My free action!
Yeah!"

MARISHA: Did I sound like Mickey? Did that
happen?

LIAM: (Mickey Mouse voice) I'd like to use my
bonus action to go earth elemental!

MATT: As the growling sound of stone and metal
seems to vibrate the floor, you step back and hulk

out into your elemental form, almost returning a
similar earth-against-stone growl back at it.

LIAM: There she is.

MATT: Top of the round. Vax, you're up.

LIAM: Would you allow me to use my bonus action to
go stealth and quietly run over using my hasted

speed to get over to my sister behind that stone
thingy in the middle of the room?

MATT: You could certainly try.

LIAM: Yes, I'd like to try.

MATT: Four, five, six. one. Get behind there, go
ahead and roll a stealth check.

LIAM: Okay. I'll use my last Luck of the day,
though. Fine. 29.

MATT: Okay. Far as you know, it doesn't see.

LIAM: Okay. I'd like to curve around by my sister
and use sharpshooter to throw two daggers as hard

as I can at him.

LAURA: What? Why are you going to--

LIAM: That's what I want to do.

LAURA: No! He's going to aim at me!

LIAM: First one is a 26. 25. And the second one
misses, it's a natural one. With sharpshooter. Oh

no. 26, 21.

MATT: All right. These are with which blades?

LIAM: This is with dagger of venom and flame
tongue. So the flame missed, dagger hit. Excuse

me, venom hit.

MATT: Right, okay. So you throw. Go ahead and roll
damage for the dagger of venom.

LIAM: Is it a sneak attack?

MATT: He does not seem to see you, so yes, you are
rolling damage.

LIAM: All right. So it's plus ten because I used
sharpshooter. So one, seven plus ten is 17. That's

the 20, 23, 27, 32, 37, 40.

MATT: 40! Nice! 40 points of piercing damage as
this one dagger hits one of its front chest plates

and causes it to dislodge and hang to the side,
and it's hanging by some sort of interior bolted

circumstance. You can see a bunch of iron
mechanisms that are holding it together, some

almost clockwork, some appear to be arcane in
nature and are being held aloft by sparking

whitish-blue energy.

LIAM: Do I have five feet of movement left?

MATT: You have about 15 feet of movement.

LIAM: I'm going to slink right behind the thing so
I'm out of range.

LAURA: Yeah, good! Good job, thanks. So you hit
him and he looks over and I'm standing there. It's

the best. That's the best move. Ever.

LIAM: I didn't hear any of that.

LAURA: I'm right behind you, you did hear it!

LIAM: That was longer than six seconds.

MATT: End of Vax's turn. Percy, you're up.

TALIESIN: Okay. I can see the damage that this
thing has taken. Would it be possible to target

the wound? I'd be happy to burn a grit to target
the mechanisms and not the armor. Try and get a

chunk of metal in there?

MATT: Sure.

TALIESIN: Okay. First thing I'm going to do is I'm
going to take a couple steps to the right and try

and shove my elbow on that glass to see what it
feels like.

MATT: Okay. So you step by and it's a pretty thick
pane, about maybe an inch or so thick. It has very

faint glass-cut carvings and designs into it.
Mainly geometric vines that curl on themselves.

It's a really pretty display for the brief moment
that you glance out the corner of your eye at it.

TALIESIN: I just wanted to see how strong it
felt.

MATT: Pretty strong.

TALIESIN: Okay. Like high-rise glass.

MATT: Yeah.

TALIESIN: Okay. I'm going to pull the rest of my
movement the opposite direction.

MARISHA: Yeah, don't stand in front of a window.

TALIESIN: Yeah, I don't want to be in front of a
window. I'm going to pull out Bad News and I'm

going to take a targeted shot at these mechanisms
with the big gun. I obviously can't do a trick

shot because I'm shooting at a thing. Obviously.
That would not work.

MARISHA: Obviously. Obvs.

TALIESIN: Spend a deadeye shot for it. And I'm
going to do a sharpshooter. And I'm burning grit.

Here we go. Didn't need that grit, but fuck it.
Nope, rolled 18 on both! So 25 to hit.

MATT: 25 hits.

TALIESIN: You can borrow the die. 25 hits. Oh boy,
this is fun. Come on, where am I? d12s. And a d6.

That's a-- (high-pitched giggling) I'm a
pretty, pretty princess. 21, 31, 37. 37 points of

piercing damage and five points of necrotic.

MATT: Okay.

LIAM: You, sir, have the temperament of a Yalie.
(gun firing)

MATT: As you fire Bad News you can see the smoke
and dark mist that fires at the front of its

barrel from the Hex, the heavy bullet goes into
the opening in the chest that was given by Grog

and you hear it bouncing around inside, seemingly
not really doing any damage to the interior of the

creature.

LAURA: Come on!

LIAM: Still well-aimed.

TALIESIN: I reload.

SAM: And shoot yourself in the face.

TALIESIN: Fuck it, I am Aquaman in this fight, I'm
well aware.

LIAM: Take that sword out, man.

TALIESIN: I'm going to burn another grit. Oh,
yeah, no, I am, but I'm trying to be helpful in

the moment.

MATT: So you fire, reload, and for your--

TALIESIN: This is my third and final shot, I'm
going to take an arm shot, I'm going to try and

get it to drop its toy.

MATT: All righty.

TALIESIN: Finally, a-- Oh, yay, that's better.
(counting) Sorry, I can't count. 22.

MATT: That hits. So the bullet ricochets off the
hand, doing no damage to it, but what's the DC on--

TALIESIN: No damage?

MATT: No damage.

TALIESIN: Normal damage.

MATT: No damage.

TALIESIN: My bullets do no damage.

MATT: Your bullets do no damage.

TALIESIN: But you still get necrotic.

MATT: Yes, it does.

TALIESIN: One point of necrotic damage.

MATT: One point of necrotic damage.

(laughter)

MATT: What's the DC?

TALIESIN: The DC is 19.

MATT: A 19? Okay, that brings it to--

TALIESIN: It's a strength saving throw.

MATT: Strength, okay, that is a 17.

TALIESIN: He drops it. I yell out, somebody get
that thing away from him!

MATT: As the bullet slams into its hands, its
fingers, against its own will, are pried open from

the blast, a little bit of poof of smoke off to
the side. And the giant blade, which is about, I'd

say, seven and a half feet long, clatters to the
ground. That thing probably weighs quite a bit.

TALIESIN: I put my gun away and I'm done.

MATT: Okay, that's the end of your turn. Grog,
you're up.

TRAVIS: Can I run, using a mixture of horizontal
and diagonal movements, to run straight at Iron Giant?

MATT: Yeah. (counting) And you have two more
squares of movement you can do if you want.

TRAVIS: Yeah, I want to get right up on him.

MATT: All right, you're right there.

TRAVIS: Can I put myself on the opposite side of
him from the window?

MATT: Right there?

TRAVIS: I would like to, since I have two attacks,
I would like to try to shove him.

MARISHA: Yes. This is what I was going for, yeah.

LIAM: There's a 20 on the die.

TRAVIS: He's only one size larger than me, so--

MATT: He's two sizes larger.

TRAVIS: In an effort to show off our Vestiges of
Divergence, I'd like to retcon this and smash my

Knuckles together and use the Enlarge to grow to
incredible size.

LIAM: Do you see me, angel guy?

SAM: To ridiculous size!

MATT: As you rush forward, towards it, you slam
your gauntlets together. As you get towards it you

begin to swell in size, your strides getting
longer and longer. By the time you approach it,

you are right there. You are now one size category
larger.

TRAVIS: Mighty Joe Young, bitch.

LAURA: Push him out the window, Grog!

MATT: All righty, so you are attempting to make a
shove attack. Okay. You push it away from you.

TRAVIS: Yes, a strength check against either his
strength or dexterity, it's the target's choice.

TALIESIN: He also has disadvantage on strength
checks.

LAURA: So he's going to choose dexterity.

MATT: Nope, his dexterity is fucking awful. So you
go ahead and make an athletics check.

TRAVIS: Yes, which I get advantage on. 23.

MATT: 23? With disadvantage it's 19.

LAURA: Yes! How far can you throw him?

TRAVIS: Only five feet, or knock him prone.

LAURA: Knock him prone!

SAM: I don't know.

TRAVIS: Yeah, I'd like to knock him--

SAM: Yeah, I'm not there.

TRAVIS: I'd like to knock him prone.

TALIESIN: Live your dreams.

MATT: You rush forward, and leaning the axe to the
side, you get low as it attempts to grab out and

punch towards your head. Reach down and grab it
from behind the ankle and then lift up, throwing

its leg up over and it goes tumbling backwards,
crashing onto its back on the ground, its limbs

loosely flailing, trying to find some sort of
purchase on the floor.

TRAVIS: Amazing.

MATT: You still have another attack, if you want
to.

TRAVIS: Oh, I do?

MATT: Yeah.

TRAVIS: And because he's prone, does that give
me-- no, I don't know. Reckless. I hit him with

the axe!

MATT: Go for it.

TRAVS: Eight. Eight again. Fuck you!

SAM: You've got inspiration.

TRAVIS: But I don't need it.

SAM: Oh great.

TRAVIS: Yeah, fuck, what did I say.

LIAM: 22.

TRAVIS: Thank you, 22.

MATT: 22? Hits.

TRAVIS: Thank you, sir. My brain don't work so
good. 19 plus one point of necrotic damage for 20

total.

MATT: 20 points of damage as you bring the axe
down with both hands, whack! Right into the center

of its chest armored cavity. You can see the axe
fits about halfway, almost to the center of the

handle itself into the chest and you have to work
it back and forth to wedge it out of its metal

hide. The axe is back in your grasp, and you can
see a giant gash mark where it was left.

SAM: So it felt that?

MATT: Yeah.

TRAVIS: Yeah, you feel Grog.

TALIESIN: It's armored, it's got a heavy armor
on.

MATT: So Grog, end of your turn?

TRAVIS: That ends my turn. You know Grog always
leaves his mark, player.

MATT: Now the golem's turn. Ah, look at that, it
rolled a six. So it recharges its poison breath.

TRAVIS: Don't say that so willy-nilly.

MATT: So it stands up in its space, using half its
movement.

TRAVIS: I hate how confidently he's saying that.

LAURA: Oh no.

MATT: It's then going to pull back (deep breath).
The helmet opens up from underneath and you can

see that giant black vacuous space in the center
of its throat. It lets another torrent of it

forward.

LAURA: Yeah. Oh! Tell me I'm just out of reach!

MATT: Nope. You're in reach.

LAURA: Fucking shitballs.

MATT: I need Keyleth, Grog, and Vex to make
constitution saving throws.

LAURA: (singing) It doesn't matter, even with a
save I'm going to die.

MARISHA: I am immune to poison.

MATT: You're immune to poison?

MARISHA: Because I'm a big earth elemental.

TRAVIS: I have resistance to poison.

MATT: All right. So what's your constitution
saving throw, Grog?

TRAVIS: It is an 18.

MATT: 18. All right. That fails, unfortunately,
but you still take half damage.

TRAVIS: Because of the belt of dwarvenkind.

MATT: Indeed. So with a full roll there. All
right. Grog, you take 25 points of poison damage.

TRAVIS: Okay.

MATT: Keyleth, you take none because of your earth
elemental form.

MARISHA: That's right!

MATT: You take 50 points of poison damage.

LAURA: Awesome. I'm unconscious.

SAM: Did you say 50?

LAURA: Yeah. I'm straight up on the ground. I feel
like Matt, he wants me to die. He makes me

unconscious in every fight now.

LIAM: Who, that golem?

LAURA: No, Matt.

MATT: You were there!

LAURA: Nope. Matt wants me to die, I can feel it.

TALIESIN: To be fair, we have this really great
idea of what to do with Trinket once you're--

TRAVIS: Okay, let's not! Okay? Let's not!

MATT: To be fair, you've spent 90% of the game
flying way away from everything you've ever

fought, so maybe it's about time it caught up to
you a little. All right. That ends the golem's

turn. Vex, I need you to make a death saving
throw.

MARISHA: Jesus fucking fuck.

TRAVIS: Roll one of the good ones? Which one will
it be, of the 90?

TALIESIN: Which child will disappoint you today?

LAURA: Oh no, I failed it!

MATT: So mark off one failed death saving throw.

LAURA: Oh shitballs. Oh no!

MATT: All right. Ends your turn. Scanlan, you're
up.

SAM: I will heal Vex'ahlia.

LAURA: Oh Scanlan!

SAM: Am I 30 feet away or closer?

MATT: You are further away from her. You are
currently off to that side. You are 40 feet from her.

SAM: Well, then I will walk 11 feet closer.

MATT: Okay. There you go.

SAM: And I will use Healing Word to heal her. I'll
sing to her (singing) Up, up and away on your

beautiful, your beautiful broom!

(laughter)

MATT: What level?

SAM: I mean, it's a bonus action so I can't go very
high with the level, can I?

MATT: You can go as high as you want on the bonus
action, whatever spell you cast as your main

action can't be higher than level two.

SAM: As my main action can't be level-- what?

MATT: One of the spells has to be level two, the
other can be any level it wants to. That's how it works.

LAURA: Oh.

SAM: Got it. Well, then I'll do this one at level
two, and I can do anything for my main action.

MATT: Correct.

SAM: Okay. Level two!

MATT: All right. So that's 2d4 plus six.

SAM: Do I roll? I roll.

MATT: You do.

SAM: One, two--

TALIESIN: Eight.

SAM: That's it! Seven.

MATT: So you heal seven hit points, Vex.

LAURA: Yay!

MATT: Did you roll seven?

SAM: No, I rolled two.

TALIESIN: So it's eight.

MATT: Okay, then eight. You're at eight.

LAURA: Yay!

SAM: Six? I thought it was plus five? Well,
whatever.

MATT: Plus six now because your charisma went up
by one, buddy.

SAM: Oh that's right! I got to mark that down!

MATT: Yes, you should. The soothing words of
Scanlan Shorthalt pull you from unconsciousness as

your eyes begin to focus downward. You're looking
out past the balcony and you can see bits of dust

being scattered across the ground and you hear the
heavy footfalls of your friends and the golem

behind you as suddenly you're like, Oh shit!

LAURA: And I cough out blood.

MATT: All right. Scanlan, you still have 15 more
feet of movement. Or ten more feet, technically.

SAM: I'm going to go back to right where I was.

MATT: You get close to it at least. Right there.

SAM: And shit. Shitballs. Shit. Shitballs fucking
shit. I will use (singing) Bigby's Hand.

MATT: Grog, did you add your 1d4 points of damage
for your enlarged state? In your attack?

TRAVIS: No.

MATT: Roll 1d4. Add that. When you're enlarged you
do an additional 1d4 with any weapon attacks

because the weapon got larger as well.

TRAVIS: One.

MATT: There you go. All right. So what are you
doing Scanlan?

SAM: Bigby's Hand is going to make a huge fist,
fly forward, and smash the window.

MATT: Behind?

SAM: Behind him.

MARISHA: Fuck yes. Yes!

TALIESIN: That's what I'm talking about!

MARISHA: Yeah. We're all on the same page. I'm so
proud of us you guys.

MATT: Let's have Bigby's Hand make a melee spell
attack against the glass.

SAM: Melee spell attack. Well, that's cocked. 12
plus what?

MATT: Plus your spell attack bonus.

SAM: Oh. 22.

MATT: 22. Without an issue the fist appears behind
the golem, fists up, and is about to punch it in

the back of the head when, last minute, it whirls
around and slams into the glass. Go ahead and roll

4d8 points of damage.

SAM: 4d8. I only have 1d8. 13 plus eight. 21. No!
22. No! What is it?

TRAVIS: 21! Holy shit!

MATT: You had it right. The window shatters, comes
clattering down, and suddenly the wind begins to

pick up into the room. At this high a point, all
the silks are now whirling around. The storm at

the top that Keyleth is holding is starting to
meet the turbulence and the lightning bolts are

beginning to course through it even heavier. Right
now it's pretty heavy winds coming through here

regardless, so a lot of you are having to keep--

SAM: Can I use any action to take off my hat and
let my hair flow, Matthew Mercer style?

MATT: Yeah. I'll give you that. Like a fantastic
1991 rock video.

LAURA: Yeah!

TALIESIN and MARISHA: (singing) I don't want to
wait for our lives to be over.

MATT: All right. Keyleth, you're up.

MARISHA: Okay. Grog's sort of out of my way--

TRAVIS: Just bring it.

MARISHA: I want to full on linebacker style go for
this guy, and we're going out the fucking window.

TRAVIS: Yes!

MARISHA: And I'm going to take him, tackling him
out the window.

MATT: Okay, so you're going to go ahead and do a
shove attack?

MARISHA: Yes, that is what I'm going to do.

MATT: All right. Go ahead and make an athletics
check.

TALIESIN: So much strength disadvantage.

LIAM: Such hassle. Too much hassle.

LAURA: Yes. Do it, giant earth.

LIAM: Shove out window, fighting too much hassle.

SAM: You know, if we can't kill it we can all kill
ourselves out the window.

LAURA: Exactly.

MARISHA: What am I doing? I'm an earth elemental,
so is that just strength?

MATT: Yeah, so add plus five to it.

MARISHA: Ten.

MATT: All right. 18. And with disadvantage that is
going to be 22. So as you rush forward and slam

into it, it puts its hand out and takes the blow,
and it screeches a couple inches, but it's still

too heavy for you to get it forward. You have two
slam attacks, as part of it?

MARISHA: Yeah, can I do it again?

MATT: You can do it again if you want.

MARISHA: Yeah, let's try this again.

MATT: All right, go ahead and roll a d20 and add
five.

MARISHA: Come on, big money-- ugh! No. Just no.

MATT: What did you roll? What's the total.

MARISHA: I rolled seven total.

MATT: Yeah, he-- natural one.

(cheering)

MATT: He rolled a seven and then a one. So as you
pull back with your other fist and you slam it

square into the center of the one plate that's
still visible, you hit it, and using all your

might, looking over at Grog to get a little
inspiration, you grin at him with this horrible

earthy smile as you watch as it scrapes across the
floor of the throne room being pushed back right

there, five feet. All right. That ends your turn.

MARISHA: Yeah.

MATT: Vax, your turn.

LIAM: I want to, like a hasted spider monkey,
scrabble along the floor really low and flank the

thing opposite Keyleth and stab it in any gears I
see.

MATT: All right.

SAM: Sorry, Vax.

LIAM: I've got wings!

SAM: Okay.

LIAM: First attack is a 17. Second attack misses,
it's a natural one. Third attack is a natural one.

MATT: So 17?

LIAM: Oh, it's advantage on all the attacks
because I'm flanking?

MATT: Because you are flanking, it is advantage on
the attacks, yes.

LIAM: Advantage on all?

MATT: Yes.

LIAM: So the first one was a 17.

TALIESIN: And now you have one more roll for the
second.

LIAM: One more roll for the second is a 13. And
then the third attack--holy cow--is a 25.

MATT: Okay, so the first two miss, the last one
hits. The blades are (screeching) streaking across

it. Which dagger is this?

LIAM: The last one is the Dagger of Venom. It is
three plus six is nine plus-- they're right there.

What did I say before? Nine plus six, 15, 18, 24,
25, 31, 37, 40 again.

MATT: 40 points of piercing damage. First two
blades strike and make no mark whatsoever on its

hide. However, the second one does manage to pull
apart and open this slight piece where you see a

number of its giant iron central torso pieces
emerging. You see a slight seam there where

they've been welded together. You take that moment
to pull back your dagger of venom and slip it as

hard as you can right into that groove. As it
does, it sinks right to the hilt and the creature

flexes its back in pain. (groaning)

LIAM: I'm going to guess I have a little bit of
movement left, and I don't care if he swings at

me. I'm going to back into the corner between the
hole and the window that's still in one piece.

MATT: There?

LIAM: Yeah, all the way to the wall. Yep.

MATT: There you go. All right, as you back away,
it swings back with its fist as it hasn't been

able to pick up its weapon yet. Its fist is still
a large rock-like battering ram.

That is a natural 20.

LIAM: Is it disadvantage, though, from Percy?

MATT: Not anymore, that only lasts for a round.

LIAM: I'll use Uncanny Dodge.

MATT: Eight, five, eight on 3d8. So 21 plus nine.
30 points of bludgeoning damage,

60 points of damage.

LIAM: 60 points?!

MATT: 60 points of damage.

LIAM: With Uncanny Dodge?

MATT: With Uncanny Dodge reduces it to 30. Whack!
It backhands you. While you're running for the

wall, your vision goes white from the impact. You
hear that high-pitched whine as your ears can't

even deal with the ringing of the impact. You
stumble and find yourself stumbling towards the

broken glass where the wind's coming from and
catch yourself back into the side of the wall.

(heavy breathing) Catch your breath there on the
side. That ends your turn. Percy, you're up.

TALIESIN: I'm kind of useless.

MARISHA: Don't say that!

TALIESIN: I'm going to do something stupid here.
I'm going to take a few steps to my left so I have

a good, clear shot at it towards the window.

MATT: To your left here?

TALIESIN: Yep. More. Yeah, there. That'll do. I'm
going to keep blowing through in the hope that I

get a crit because then I regain a grit. I'm going
to pull out Bad News and start firing to see if I

can throw it off its aim.

MARISHA: Are you grit farming right now?

TALIESIN: I'm grit farming.

MARISHA: You're totally grit farming.

TALIESIN: I'm fucking grit farming.

MATT: You're grit farming-- okay, go for it. So
Bad News is reload, attack, reload.

TALIESIN: It's not Bad News, it's--

MATT: Oh, it's Retort you're pulling out.

TALIESIN: Yeah, Retort, it's off-balance so I'm
trying to find a place where-- give it some

momentum to fall.

MATT: You have one more shot, a reload, then a
shot.

TALIESIN: I have one more shot, a reload, and a
shot. Two shots.

MATT: Go for it.

TALIESIN: I hit, so that I might as well just
roll--

MATT: Just roll the necrotic damage.

TALIESIN: That's six points of necrotic damage.

MATT: Six points of necrotic damage? All righty.

TALIESIN: And again. 21? Oh, 20.

MATT: 20?

TALIESIN: 20. Not natural 20. It misses?

MATT: It misses. The bullet goes past the armor
and ends up hitting the side of the wall and

cracks some of the marble.

TALIESIN: I'm just trying to grit farm at this
point.

MATT: Staying where you are?

TALIESIN: You know? It occurs to me that this
battle's going to be over soon.

SAM: That's wishful thinking!

LAURA: Why would you throw that out there?!

TRAVIS: Great way to hear God laugh is to announce
your plans.

TALIESIN: Point!

MATT: Grog, your turn.

TRAVIS: After seeing Vex fall and then Scanlan
lift her up and then Vax get slammed into the wall

and Keyleth showing up in this very attractive
form, I would like to reckless attack, and for a

bonus action, go into a frenzied rage for a third
attack, and use all three to try and

push him out the window.

MARISHA: Yes!

MATT: All righty! You go into your frenzied rage.
Go ahead and make three athletics checks. First one.

TRAVIS: I have advantage.

LIAM: Get it son!

TRAVIS: That's a 23.

MATT: That is an 18. So the first one, you slam.
Pushes it back. It's now teetering on the edge.

Right there. Now, as part of the shove, my
question, I have to see if you get to move into

its space afterward because, right now, it's out
of your range.

TRAVIS: That is a good question. I could move.

MATT: You'd have to move to that point to hit it.
Because you'd have to move five feet because

Keyleth pushed it away. You shove it back.
Double-check this one more time.

MARISHA and LAURA: This. Is.

MARISHA: Ank'Harel!

SAM: Do we notice any rocket boosters on its
heels?

MATT: You have plenty of movement. You push it
back, you move in to get within range there. Go

ahead and make another.

TRAVIS: 27.

MATT: 27, that is a 17.

LAURA: Yes!

MATT: Pushed back, it's right up to the edge now,
its shoulders dropped against the edge. Its blade

is still on the ground. Do you move in and go for
a final one?

TRAVIS: Yes, please.

MATT: Make an athletics check one more time.

MARISHA: Come on!

TRAVIS: That's good! 26.

MATT: Natural one.

(yelling)

MATT: 15 and a natural one. All right, so.

How do you want to do this?

(cheering)

TRAVIS: Because I love 300, I look at him and I
say, (yelling) This. Is. Vox Machina! And kick him

in the chest out the window.

MATT: As your swollen, giant goliath foot slams
into the front, you see the metal plate that's

dangling and the one that's still there cave
inward, sparks fly as the inner workings of it are

jammed with its own armored plate. Its arms reach
out and scrape and break off the sides of the

walls as it falls backward and tumbles out of
sight. You glance over and look down as you watch

it plummet.

TRAVIS: We're so high up.

LAURA: So high.

LIAM: Empire State Building.

MATT: (loud crash) Through the roof of some
portion of the Cerulean Palace.

LAURA: No!

MARISHA: Sorry!

TRAVIS: Fore!

LAURA: I hope everyone's okay!

MARISHA: Sorry, Steve!

TRAVIS: Do I have any movement to move away from
the opening of the window, just in case any

trickery happens?

MATT: Yes.

MARISHA: I'm okay!

LAURA: Can I stand up? I've been watching this
whole thing from the ground going: Yay Grog!

SAM: Covered in blood.

MATT: You stand up and look over the side just as
Grog kicks it out the window and it disappears out

of sight.

TRAVIS: I find earth elemental Keyleth. (heavy
hand slap)

SAM: Don't leave me hanging, says Bigby's Hand!

TRAVIS: Yeah! Whack! It's like a jive hand shake,
it's like, yeah! Get a little weasel.

LIAM: I'm going to skitter over to my sister and
help her up Saving Private Ryan style.

LAURA: I'm going to cast Cure Wounds on myself
there.

MATT: Go for it.

LAURA: At 3rd-level there.

MARISHA: Hey Grog! Chest bump! Huh! Yeah!

MATT: Both of you guys make athletics checks.

TRAVIS: Yes!

MARISHA: Who?

MATT: Both of you guys make athletics checks.

MARISHA: For chest bumping each other?

MATT: Yeah.

TRAVIS: 23.

MARISHA: 19.

MATT: (impact) You end up shoving her earth
elemental form back about five feet.

MARISHA: Out the window?

MATT: Not out the window, you're not close
enough.

TALIESIN: Just double checking: can I feel if my
Hex has dissipated?

MATT: Your Hex has dissipated, yes.

TALIESIN: Just checking.

SAM: Are there shards of glass on the ground? Or
did they all go outward?

MATT: There are a few shards, but a lot of it
seems to be broken.

SAM: Can I have Bigby pick up one and bring it
back? A tiny piece.

TALIESIN: Do you have a mending spell of any
kind?

SAM: No. You're on your own, fuckface.

TALIESIN: I'm not fixing it, I just thought it
might be nice, good god!

MATT: How many hit points do you heal, Vex?

LAURA: I'm at 28 hit points now.

MATT: 28 hit points. All righty.

LAURA: Oh no, what are you going to do now?!

MATT: You guys take a moment to yourself to look
around and see if there's no other threat. With

the shattered glass window, the wind whipping
through the room, the silks all swirling,

entangling around you. The wind slowly dies down,
suddenly and unnaturally so. You glance over the

balcony, and what was once empty, you see a dark
figure standing, silhouetted by the outside

sunlight. Tall, thin, lithe figure. This appears
to be J'mon Sa Ord reappearing, who walks inside,

hands together and an expression of amusement,
says, "Impressive indeed. Very well. You will have

"my alliance and allegiance for the coming storm."
The door behind you, where you guys entered up

inside opens and you see the Grand Maven step out
with a smile on her face as well. She looks over

to the window and goes, "Perhaps I should go check
on-- I should go check." She backs back in and you

hear the chain rupture as it begins to shift back
down. J'mon steps forward. "Join me by the throne,

"please." Steps over and sits down once again. "The
cruel red that you speak of, that we once fought,

"was crushed by our might and my hatred for its
kind. This city has many wards, as I mentioned,

"and I am its protector. I have my ways, which I
utilize only when necessary. Now what you ask,

"what you do, is already a deed of justice in and
of itself. I require no recompense beyond that.

"While I cannot leave my city unguarded for long, I
must remain until you are prepared to engage this

"Thordak head on. When the time comes, call to me
and I will come to your aid." And they raise

their finger and does a small snapping motion. You
watch as the throne itself lifts up and shifts off

of its place. A chest beneath it opens suddenly,
and the wind whips up once more throughout the

room and as it does, a small, thin, extended
rod-like object floats and is tossed in the air by

the wind over in the direction of J'mon Sa Ord who
then snatches it and the wind ceases once more.

Presents it toward--

SAM: I'll take that, please.

MATT: You take it. Looking at it, it's a small
brass flute. Looks simple. Like a penny whistle,

almost. As you're about to blow on it, J'mon puts
their hand up and says, "It knows the melody to

"call Devo'ssa but once."

SAM: To call who?

MATT: "Devo'ssa."

SAM: Is that a name that you go by?

MATT: "Devo'ssa is the guardian of this city."
J'mon stands back and slowly extends their arms as

a sudden burst of wind once again fills the room,
swirling around, sending the silks tangling about

once more, seeming stronger than what was brought
in from the shattered window earlier. Your hair is

being tossed and you watch as the lithe creature
steps back, the shape bending and swelling behind

the silks passing in front as it backs up toward
the opposite side of the chamber on the outside of

the balcony. You watch the flashing of color, of
green and dark gold. A shadow takes the floors,

the new form before you holds most of the room,
lording over the throne (heavy footsteps). Wings

(whooshing noise) unfurl as you see before you the
form of the city's protector: a massive brass

dragon, scales glistening in the window-fractured
sunlight, wings and tail tip becoming a gradient

into green at the end. Incredible, frightening,
beautiful. The dragon's head curls down, over

where the throne was moved, their head massive by
comparison to you and reminiscent of most of your

recent dragon fights, though there is almost a
smile and benevolence to their presence. The same

black eyes, with a smoldering molten pupil still
stand there, staring back at you. "I share with

"you my secret. There is now trust between you and
I. Do not forsake it."

LAURA: Never.

TALIESIN: This is a greater gift than we could
have hoped for.

MATT: (heavy footsteps) They sit back into a more
casual position, their claws still there before

them, head still level with the rest of your
party. It slowly drifts back up, now looming down

over 30 feet ahead of you. The voice booms out
once more, "I will prepare here how I can. Now go.

"Time is ever fleeting."

LAURA: When we call your guardian, is that how
you'll know that we're calling you as well?

MATT: "I am the guardian."

LAURA: I get it. I'm really smart.

SAM: She lost a lot of blood.

LAURA: (coughs) Also, like a big giant gash right
here. I'm going to hold it together. For now.

SAM: Ahem. Excuse me. Your imminence-- imminence?
Eminence. As we are strangers in this foreign

land, we were also wondering if you would lend us
some sort of a calling card, something that proves

that we are friends of the state, it might serve
us well as we are automatically suspicious as we

walk around your great city.

TRAVIS: I wave my giant hand that I've enlarged.

SAM: Or no. Either way, we're good.

TALIESIN: I get the feeling that perhaps, even
such a thing would make us even more of a target,

perhaps?

MATT: The dragon leans forward, the head coming
down straight to you. Their maw right across from

your size, one of their front teeth is about up to
your waist by comparison. (heavy breathing)

(chuckles) "You are sly, gnome." Turns around and
reaches into the same box that carried

the flute, pulls out a chain that dangles,
fluttering in the wind, and hands it to you.

MARISHA: It's a four-day Comic-Con badge.

SAM: Oh! Professional!

MATT: "Only one day."

SAM: Sunday? Motherfucker!

(laughter)

MATT: The chain, as you grasp it-- it's dropped
into your hand and you look at it. There appears

to be a brass emblem with a single circular
sapphire set into it. "This is a symbol of my

"crest. Few should argue should they be under my
sway."

SAM: Thank you so much. And I drop six inches,
which is to my knee, and bow my head in

supplication.

TRAVIS: Scanlan! Beep-beep. Beep-beep!

LAURA: He means "be pleased."

SAM: Oh! Be pleased.

TALIESIN: Before we depart, my lord, I would ask
perhaps some local knowledge. We have magical

items that we require wisdom as to their origin
and their function. Who would you trust in this

city? Would you know who to trust in this city?

MATT: Thinks for a second.

TALIESIN: Flips through his notes.

MATT: (chuckles) Yeah.

TALIESIN: A little Rolodex.

LAURA: His Trapper Keeper. I like that everyone
has a Trapper Keeper.

LIAM: Large brass Trapper Keeper.

TRAVIS: You hear the Velcro.

TALIESIN: The iPad is rebooting.

TRAVIS: Neon pinks and purples.

MARISHA: Updating? Goddamn it.

LIAM: (as Devo'ssa) "I love Night Rider."

SAM: How am I supposed to remember "beep-beep"
from two weeks ago?

MATT: "There are many who I would call friends, or
trustworthy. The list would be long."

TALIESIN: For ancient objects, such as we have.
For Vestiges. For things that are old.

MATT: "You would seek Headmaster James Kryon."

MARISHA: James Kryon?

LAURA: Krylon?

MATT: "Head of the Crystal Chateau's program for
arcane arts and training."

TALIESIN: I will not tell him of anything other
than our gentle acquaintance.

MARISHA: Crystal Chateau-- what was that last
bit?

MATT: "The Crystal Chateau."

MARISHA: Got it. Sure. Crystal Chateau.

LIAM and MARISHA: Old magic.

SAM: It's a two year professional degree.

LAURA: I don't know how to spell chateau. I really
don't know how to spell it.

TRAVIS: Percy, what's the proper way to leave a
royal chamber?

TALIESIN: The way that you leave a royal chamber
is you thank them for their patience and

their time and for their wisdom, you keep your
head beneath theirs, and you never turn your back.

And you leave, facing them in reverence.

TRAVIS: Thank you for having patience, put your
head, and--

TALIESIN: Be pleased. Don't say the words, just do
the things. I didn't tell you what to say, I told

you what to do.

TRAVIS: Thank you for your patience. And I turn
around and walk out.

(laughter)

MATT: You hear a hearty, deep-throated chuckle as
you turn around. As you make your way to the door

of the exit, it opens once more as you hear the
platform coming to rest once again. As it opens,

there standing in the space is the cobalt golem,
eyes flickering with white flame.

(footsteps) It comes rushing forward past you,
shouldering you out of the way. Grabs its blade.

You can see there are dents in its armor, but it's
still standing. Apparently didn't seem to take

that much damage from the impact of the fall. It
takes the blade and drags it behind it as it moves

around J'mon, who steps back as the golem goes back
under the balcony and then begins to climb back up

outside to whatever strange device or platform it
was affixed to before it dropped.

LAURA: Sick.

TALIESIN: Marvelous piece of engineering.

MATT: "We have many throughout the palace."

TALIESIN: Your technology is impressive, your
craftsmanship beyond anything I have ever seen,

and there is nothing more pleasing than a monarch
with a sense of humor. Bless you.

MATT: "My patience for your honeyed words grows
thin."

(laughter)

TALIESIN: Oh, that felt good.

TRAVIS: That was so good, too!

MATT: "Now, be on your way. I suspect when the
time comes to call me you'd best be ready. Now."

Turns around and with a whirl, the wind picks up
again and the form shrinks down leaving, once

again, in the space as the shadow shrinks, the
lithe form of J'mon Sa Ord. They walk back to the

throne as the throne seems to magically lift up
and cover the box that was there beneath it

before. Sits back on the throne, crosses their
knees onto the throne, leans on one side of the

armrest.

TRAVIS: Should we ask how to tell if someone else
is a dragon? Is there a tell?

TALIESIN: They won't tell you.

TRAVIS: Oh.

TALIESIN: Because I think that's their secret.

TRAVIS: Right.

LAURA and LIAM: Thank you.

TALIESIN: I begin walking out.

TRAVIS: Yeah, we all walk out.

LAURA: Backwards. I'm going to keep holding my
slashed--

TALIESIN: That should actually give you excellent
posture for a slight bow.

LAURA: Right, yeah.

LIAM: I'm going to cast Lay on Hands through my
arm around her shoulder and give her a big five

hit points.

LAURA: Oh, thank you. I'm in the thirties now.

TALIESIN: It's like the life force of two
kittens.

MARISHA: Two kittens worth.

MATT: You guys step back into the platform. The
door closes. The chains shudder and begin to

unfurl as the platform lowers down once more,
giving you the view over the vast expanse of

Ank'Harel and the deserts beyond.

MARISHA: Oh, in the see-through elevator?

MATT: Yep.

TRAVIS: Just us, no Grand Maven?

MATT: No Grand Maven. It finally reaches the
bottom floor. The door opens once again, and there

you see the Grand Maven surrounded by twelve
different servants that are now picking up pieces

of shattered rooftop, broken furniture, and a
large crater that is now jammed in the center of

what was once the waiting room where you guys were
previously set. Furniture scattered and totally

ruined, and there seems to be an air of haste in
making sure that it doesn't stay like this for long.

LAURA: So sorry about that.

SAM: Did anyone die?

MATT: "Thankfully, no. There was no death. You are
lucky this time."

TALIESIN: Just a heart attack and a metaphor for
our entire existence, that's fine.

SAM: Did you see a javelin? No? Maybe? Okay.

LAURA: Can we look around for it?

TALIESIN: We're going to have to take a walk
around the tower for a javelin. You threw it?

TRAVIS: How high is the top of the tower?

MATT: It's hard to tell. A few hundred feet.

TRAVIS: A few hundred feet up, I chucked the shit
out of it.

LAURA: It could be around.

TRAVIS: You know the needle in the desert
metaphor?

TALIESIN: Is there a needle in the desert-- is
that a thing?

TRAVIS: Well, I've heard it before.

MATT: There is now.

TRAVIS: Many a wise and learned creature--

MATT: You wish to take some time to go ahead and
try and figure out a trajectory and where it may

have gone?

TALIESIN: I'm going to sit down and do a little
math and see if I can get a vague sense.

LAURA: I'm going to ask the Grand Maven: Flying,
is that sort of weird here, or is that totally

okay? On a broom, maybe? I don't want to do
anything that's wrong here. I feel like I might be

able to see it.

MATT: "As far as I understand, there is no issue
with flying within Ank'Harel."

TALIESIN: Not old math.

MARISHA: New math. He's finding fractals and shit
over here.

MATT: Did you roll a natural 20?

TALIESIN: Weirdly enough, I've figured out--

MARISHA: He just created the Mandelbrots.

LAURA: Percy, point me in the direction. I'll fly
and get it.

TALIESIN: Natural 20.

MATT: You became the animated gif of the cat that
gets the flower on its head and sees through space

and time. You guys watch as Percy zones out for
five minutes, the hand moving at a rapid pace

across the paper.

TALIESIN: I found a window and I'm doing the
Beautiful Mind.

MATT: What that enables you, as you get some ideas
as to the trajectory, the speed, the strength of

Grog in the non-grown form versus the grown form.
This does allow you, whoever wants to lead this

expedition, one investigation check to possibly
even recover anything.

LAURA: Can I fly? I feel like I could fly down and
get it.

TALIESIN: I'll fly with her and use the math to--

LAURA: Point me in the direction.

MATT: So the two of you are using the broom. It only
has space on it for one.

TALIESIN: I'm going to hang.

MATT: Okay, so Percy's hanging from underneath as
you fly up a few hundred feet.

LAURA: Hold tight, Percy!

TALIESIN: I've locked my gauntlet.

LAURA: I'm holding onto one of his wrists as I'm
flying.

LIAM: I'm watching in case I need to catch.

MATT: You guys watch them vanish in
a darker and darker spot as they get higher into

the sky. Percy. Go ahead and make a wisdom saving
throw. You've not been this high before and the

sheer perspective and the fact that you have very
little affixing you to this broom, we're going to

see if you can overcome this singular human fear
of heights.

LAURA: No, Percy, you're totally fine.

TALIESIN: No, I'm not. Oh, I can reroll a saving
throw, can't I? Yeah.

MATT: You can, as a fighter, yeah.

TALIESIN: I can reroll a saving throw, because I'm
going to pretend that number didn't happen.

MATT: Indomitable Will, this is a perfect use for
it, actually.

TALIESIN: I'm going to do it again. I have one
more, so I'm going to blow them all.

MATT: Okay, I'll let you do that.

TALIESIN: Better!

MARISHA: Fight that vertigo, fight it!

TALIESIN: I'll tell you what, because I had to blow
all of those, we can say I threw up a little.

Let's go there. That's a wisdom, that's 19.

MATT: 19. You feel quivering of the broom as
Percy's hands are beginning to shake and you see

the fingers constantly flutter. As you look down,
about to ask if he's okay, you watch as

(vomit noise) this spray of--

LAURA: I throw up, too, because anytime I--

TALIESIN: This was a very poor decision!

MATT: Vax, you watch as you see a gentle rain.

TALIESIN: Have we gone forward, or have we just
gone straight up?

MATT: Gone straight up in an arc.

TALIESIN: So we're not going to hit them.

LIAM: Excuse me, but this is poetic justice if I
have ever seen it. That is beautiful.

TALIESIN: This has been the metaphor game. This is
a metaphor for our entire existence.

MATT: Yeah, some poor folks in Ank'Harel right now
are having a really bad afternoon.

MARISHA: Yeah, I do a Gust cantrip overtop of us
to keep from getting splattered.

LAURA: I'm going to keep my hand on your wrist,
Percy.

TALIESIN: I'm not going to look down. I'm going to
look ahead. I'm good.

MATT: He directs you vaguely where it may have
landed. I need you to make a perception check.

TALIESIN: Yeah!

LIAM: That's your jam.

LAURA: I'm going to try this fancy little dice
here.

MATT: You're going to have to roll crazy high.

LIAM: Nope!

MARISHA: Shut up!

TRAVIS: No, that's a seven, right?

LAURA: This is a one. I'm going to blame it on
Matt Abernathy. Thanks for that opal dice.

MARISHA: Is it the opal dice again?!

LAURA: Yeah!

MARISHA: What the fuck?!

LAURA: He got opal dice and it-- okay. That's
okay.

MATT: We love you, Abernathy, don't listen to
her.

LAURA: 13 perception.

MATT: But you rolled a natural one.

LIAM: Automatic failure. Sorry, Charlie.

LAURA: Damn it.

MATT: As he begins telling you about the wind
trajectory, and the direction of its travel and

the hypotenuse, and he goes in this long series of
various--

LAURA: I zone in and I notice that I accidentally
puked a little bit on Percy's head. And that

completely distracts me.

MATT: Just focusing on the one bit of his hair.
The little clump right there.

LAURA: That's got a tiny bit of puke on the top of
his head, and I feel so bad I can't focus on what

you're saying.

TALIESIN: Because of that, we've done about 350.
Have we done 350? Where are we now, 80, 90 feet

ahead?

LAURA: And I throw up again because it's so gross
to see.

MATT: This time, thankfully, you have the mind to pull
out of the way a little bit. However, after about

ten minutes of conversation, and you unable to
focus again: it's lost. You have no idea where

that javelin is.

LIAM: I would like to think you could feel my
grinning from way down below.

LAURA: You were so smart with your math and I--

TALIESIN: No, sometimes math is not enough.

SAM: 20 and a one.

TALIESIN: Let's go fly down.

LAURA: Someone is going to find a really expensive
weapon.

MATT: Someone's going to find some pauper impaled
on a wall somewhere.

LAURA: Oh no! No, I hope not! And the mystery, it
will just be unsolved mysteries, they'll never know.

MATT: Three month investigation, no answers.

LAURA: They're going have a documentary on Making
a Murderer.

TRAVIS: It'll be one dude impaled against the wall
and some poor bastard that grabbed it and then got

fucking electrocuted. There's two corpses.

MATT: As you guys fly back down, gather the rest
of your party, the javelin lost.

LAURA: Sorry, Percy, I'm so sorry.

TALIESIN: It's all right. It wasn't my javelin.

LAURA: No, but it was your hair that I threw up
on.

TALIESIN: You threw up on my hair?!

LAURA: I mean! And I take some--

TALIESIN: Oh god.

LAURA: You know, if you hadn't thrown up to begin
with, this would have never happened.

TALIESIN: I wasn't aware that was going to be a
thing that could happen. My hair is very

absorbent, that's going to take some time.

MATT: So as you guys take a moment to gather your
next stage in your endeavor for the day, we're

going to take a quick bathroom break. Back here in
a few minutes guys; hold tight. We'll continue

this adventure here in just a moment.

LAURA: Man, I rolled a one!

[break]

MATT: Hello guys, welcome back! So, finished our
break, Vox Machina have exited the Cerulean

Palace. Apparently revealed to J'mon Sa Ord that
they were capable, and in doing so, J'mon Sa Ord

revealed that so is the leader of the city. So one
javelin down, unfortunately. You are now getting

to the later evening of your time here in
Ank'Harel.

LAURA: What time is it?

MATT: What is your plan?

SAM: Is it sundown yet?

MATT: It's pretty close. The sun's 
about 30 minutes from dusk.

LIAM: Is it spice o'clock?

LAURA: I'm going to use another spell and heal
myself some more.

SAM: Oh yeah. Can we take a short rest somewhere?
And hit dice it up or something?

MATT: Yeah, totally. Go ahead and take a short
rest out there on the steps of the Cerulean Palace.

SAM: Take a knee.

MARISHA: A little therapeutic massages all the way
around.

TALIESIN: Is Grit recovery a short rest or a long
rest? I can't remember.

MATT: What do you mean?

TALIESIN: Grit recovery.

MATT: It's a short rest.

TALIESIN: Thank you.

MATT: And don't forget, Scanlan, you have an
ability that helps everyone who's using hit dice

gets a bonus.

LAURA: You do?

MARISHA: Really?

SAM: It's not very much but yes! Yes, I do.

TALIESIN: It's even less if you don't do it.

SAM: I've never used it because it's so weak. But
yeah, sure.

TALIESIN: He doesn't like us.

SAM: Yeah. I do. I'm trying to find where--

MATT: Song of Rest.

SAM: Song of Rest. It's only a d10? What is it?

TALIESIN: Yeah. 1d10.

LAURA: That's still. That's potentially ten extra
hit points.

MARISHA: Between all of us.

MATT: Every person, as soon as you finish your
short rest to heal. You heal an additional 1d10

hit points at the end of it.

SAM: All right. I will sing us a Song of Rest.

MARISHA: Oh, I rolled a ten! Oh wait, do I roll or
you roll?

MATT: You roll.

MARISHA: We roll? Cool!

SAM: I'll sing. (singing) I believe you can kill.
I believe that you really will. Think about it

every night and day. Sharpen your blades because
it's time to play. I believe!

Okay, it's time to go get some spice!

(laughter)

MATT: You finish your short rest. As the night
takes the sky, the streets of Ank'Harel do not

grow any calmer. The bazaar lights begin to glow
in the distance as you see the lanterns and

various magical light sources of the city spark to
life and the lamps light themselves. But the city

still seems to be bustling with all the energy and
buzz of the day before. What would you like to do?

TALIESIN: There's a casino if I recall.

TRAVIS: Yeah, that's where we're going.

LIAM: Do you gamble?

TALIESIN: I don't know. I mean, I do, but I never
gamble for fun.

LIAM: I don't mean with lives.

TALIESIN: No, I do not gamble.

MARISHA: I enjoy the gambling game. That's fun!

TALISIN: That's right! We did play cards with you.
That went really well.

SAM: Guys. If we're going to this casino, I have
a deal to make. I value your friendship. I value

the backup you will provide, but I need you to
stay far away. Be inconspicuous. And by the gods,

do not help me in any way! Unless I say some
sort of a codeword.

LAURA: What's the codeword?

TALIESIN: Help me. Help me. Oh God, help me?

SAM: That's a good one. Let's make it that! Help
me. Help me. Oh God, help me!

LAURA: I have a question.

SAM: Yes?

LAURA: Do you really think this is a smart move,
considering that a brass dragon just gave us our

aid and asked us not to fuck anything up?

MARISHA: Also, what exactly are you doing?

TRAVIS: (loudly) Your drug deal?

SAM: Keep it down, dude! Chill! Just chill!

LAURA: All right. We're cool, Scanlan. We're
cool.

SAM: We are not cool.

LAURA and MARISHA: We're so
cool.

TALIESIN and TRAVIS: So cool.

TALIESIN: I'm cool enough to know that, perhaps,
you should hand off that necklace that he gave you.

SAM: Not at all.

TALIESIN: They're going to think you're a narc.

LAURA: Oh, they are! What if they find it on
you?

TALIESIN: You're wearing a police badge
basically.

LAURA: Give it to us. If anyone comes and tries to
take you away, we'll present it and say that we're

higher rank.

MARISHA: That's true.

TRAVIS: Are you supposed to do anything to set up
for this deal?

SAM: Set up? I have to change into my red shirt.

LIAM: And also, are you sure you really don't want
us nearby? My sister and I can be unseen.

SAM: Nearby is fine. Nearby is fine but keep your
distance and do not do anything including if it

looks like I'm in trouble.

LIAM: I mean I'm ready for the show, man. It's
fine.

LAURA: We've seen you turn into a triceratops
and fuck things up. We trust you, Scanlan.

LIAM: Oh, we didn't see that.

LAURA: Well, we know it happened.

SAM: I had it commissioned as art.

LAURA: Seen the tale throughout the mansion.

TRAVIS: Can I ask for one other codeword if you
don't want us to step in? What if you want us to

create a distraction?

SAM: Okay, okay. What would that codeword be?

TRAVIS: Kill everything.

SAM: Well, we are being honest on this trip,
right? "Kill everything," means make a

distraction, right? But "Help, help, oh god,
help," means I need help.

TRAVIS: How about "tomato paste" to create a
distraction?

SAM: Tomato paste?

TRAVIS: Yeah, because I'll cover the walls in
tomato paste. But from people.

MARISHA: I feel like we need something that he
could use in a sentence very easily.

LIAM: What about "Love-a the spice?"

LAURA: "Love-a the spice," huh?

SAM: Let's stick with tomato paste. I feel like
that's easier to work into a sentence than "Love-a the spice."

LIAM: I don't doubt you could fit it in, Scanlan.
Let's be real, please.

SAM: Really nervous, guys. I've never done a drug
deal-- (whispers) a drug deal before.

LAURA: Are you sure this is even a drug?

SAM: Yes, of course! I said, "Spice. Spice.
Spice," And shady people came around. That means

it's a drug, right?

LAURA: Did you say what the spice was?

TALIESIN: Oregano.

SAM: I told them. They seemed illicit about it.
I'm very excited!

LAURA: All right. You'll do a wonderful job.
You're so cool.

TRAVIS: How far away is the casino?

SAM: Where is the casino? I wrote it down.

TRAVIS: The north end?

SAM: It's where the Ravenites are. Nope! That's a
different page.

LAURA: Should we get in fancy casino clothes?
Because I feel like we'd dress up for it.

SAM: It's not The Debt's Respite. It is just The
Casino, right? Does it have a name?

MATT: It's called the Luck's Run and you feel like
you passed it when you first entered the Suncut

Bazaar here in the city. You didn't pay much mind
to it at the time.

LAURA: Is it shaped like a pyramid with a giant
light coming out the top? No?

MARISHA: Does it have a shitty roller coaster
attached?

MATT: We'll find out.

SAM: All right. I'm heading to the casino. Would
you all like to join me? And you can entertain

yourselves with some games while I--

LAURA: I cannot wait.

TALIESIN: I am very excited by this!

MARISHA: I really enjoy the gambling!

TALIESIN: I enjoy watching her gamble.

MARISHA: Yes. But we are cool. We are chill.

TRAVIS: Should we wear costumes? Should I wear
my big pointy hat?

SAM and TALIESIN: Yes!

TRAVIS: I put the pointy hat on.

MATT: Looks fancy! And pointy!

TALIESIN: We're going to get changed for the
evening.

LAURA: Yes, can we get changed? Do we have enough
time?

MATT: You guys have your room in the Debt's
Respite, which is maybe like a 20-minute walk from--

LAURA: Awesome clothes! For casino.

MARISHA: Look, it's a night out in Vegas, man.

TRAVIS: Didn't bring any extra clothes.

LAURA: We are hitting the club!

TRAVIS: We are adventurers.

LAURA: We're making it hail!

TALIESIN: This is not an animated series. We have
more than one pair of pants. Except for you.

SAM: I wear the same exact thing every day.

LIAM: 20 of it?

MATT: So Scanlan, you're wearing your normal clothes?

SAM: I'm putting my red shirt on.

MATT: Yes, you are. Okay. So you guys go back to
The Debt's Respite. You get prepared for the evening,

dressed up in your finest attire at your disposal,
and walk your way back to where you believe this

casino was when you first entered the city.

MARISHA: I Druidcraft a little frost on the edge
of my armor. So that I'm cool.

SAM: Just going to melt? Or does it--?

TRAVIS: That will be soggy. It will be soggy in
five minutes.

LAURA: Now it looks like you've been sweating a
lot.

MARISHA: Guys, just tell me I look cool.

LAURA: You look so cool, Keyleth.

TALIESIN: I think I do know a way to make the
frost hold. I could science it. I could frost-hold it.

MATT: What would you like to do?

TALIESIN: Add about 15% sawdust ratio to it
and it should hold its form even at a high

temperature.

LIAM: Well, can't she keep the cantrip going for
about--

MARISHA: For a little bit. It is a cantrip. I'm
kind of badass now.

TRAVIS: Put that shit down! Put it down!

SAM: What, Travis? What is that?

TRAVIS: Put that damn mug down! I'll tear that
sticker.

SAM: What is it?

TRAVIS: How dare you! I'm going to ruin this
transaction for you now.

MATT: All right. So the frost maintains itself as
a high-level druid. This is a simple glamor-based

cantrip to maintain.

MARISHA: Fuck yeah, it is!

LAURA: Can you glamor me to not look like I have a
giant slash through my chest anymore?

MARISHA: Or totally, I do, like a little, give her
a little bit of concealer. A little bit of

foundation, a little powder.

MATT: Easy enough. You guys look rather fancy as a
traveling group. Do you travel together?

LAURA: No.

TALIESIN: I'm with Keyleth.

LIAM: I'm babysitting Scanlan at a distance.

LAURA: Well, I guess I'm walking by myself.

TALIESIN: You can be with us.

TRAVIS: I'm very rich, wealthy. I'm alone.

SAM: You're a high-roller?

LAURA: Oh, Percy, do you want to look like you
have ladies?

MARISHA: Oh yeah.

LAURA: So rich. All right.

TRAVIS: I walk around double-fisting both bottles
of the sandkheg.

SAM: Oh, yeah!

LIAM: That went from terrible to great.

TRAVIS: Just rolling in. Rolling in deep.

SAM: Wait. Have you even tasted it yet?

TRAVIS: Nope.

(laughter)

LAURA: And then me and Keyleth are on Percy's
arms.

MARISHA: Yes. We are.

TALIESIN: We are Vegas-ing.

MATT: You stealth.

LIAM: Yeah.

LAURA: Wow!

LIAM: Natural 20.

SAM: Wow!

TRAVIS: What?

LAURA: Stealthing like a motherfucker.

LIAM: So that's a 35.

MATT: You somehow are no longer in the narrative.
You stealth out of the story.

TALIESIN: You've been retconned, even.

MATT: Vax was never there.

LIAM: Got you, Scan-man.

SAM: Who said that?

MATT: You guys approach the outskirts of the
building you saw on the way in. What you see

before you, with the little bit of light that
dapples the edge of the Suncut Bazaar reflects

across metallic framing on the sides of the
building. The walls appear to be dark wood leafed

with brass and gold, a beacon of precious metal at
many points throughout the structure. It looks to

be three stories in its entirety. A half-dozen
armed guards not adorned in the guise of the Hands

of Ord stand at each entrance, probably privately
owned by the establishment, and you hear loud

music and cheering bursting from within. You catch
a chiseled signed across each doorway arch that

read "Drensala Quan: Luck's Run."

LAURA: What does that mean?

MARISHA: Ren-sa-la quan?

MATT: Drensala Quan, which is the Marquesian speak
for "Luck's Run" with the Common translation

beneath it.

LAURA: Okay, I understand.

MATT: So as you at your own paces walk through the
front doors, the scents of sweat, perfumes, and

tobacco immediately hit your nostrils, as the
lively melodies of two musical groups compete from

across the establishment, forming a strange
discordant sound towards the center of the main

room. Large square tables draped in crimson cloth
fill the space from one end to the other,

different shapes and sizes, crowds of different
numbers huddled around each. You see three dozen

patrons of all walks of life tending to their
various games of chance. Card tables, dice games,

even a small contained race table in the far
corner stir cheers and anguish. You see

servants--

MARISHA: No, wait, what are they racing? I go over
to there.

LAURA: Already? I'm looking for craps.

MATT: Servants dressed in uniformed long shirts of
dark gray and gold to match the building's

exterior rush drinks, food, and coin between
tables as you begin to push through the crowd. You

come upon, Keyleth, first, as you push past, to
the far room there is a long table with a series

of curved, almost miniature maze-like paths and
there are five paths that all run alongside each

other. As you glance over the crowd, you see five
desert lizards about that long that are all being

held in cages at one end. And you see a bunch of
individuals that are currently in the process of

setting bets down on the central table with a
number of colored squares around it. They're

putting different amounts stacked up on the side,
and they're all speaking in a language you don't

understand. As you approach and glance over, some
of them stop and glance over their shoulder at

you, and then go back about their business, not
paying attention.

MARISHA: They're doing their own thing? Okay. How
far away am I from the lizards?

MATT: About seven feet?

MARISHA: Can I go up to them? Or are they behind a
gate?

MATT: They're all in these very well-crafted cages
side-by-side at the far end of a table, right next

to where all the bets are being placed. And there
look to be two guards flanking them and one man at

the very end of the table that currently looks to
have his hand on a single doorway that is at the

front of these cages and is in the process of
currently counting up and keeping track of all the

best that are being placed.

MARISHA: Okay. I'm going to go up to the guy.

MATT: Okay. You walk up to him. (speaking in
Marquesian)

TALIESIN: We'll keep a couple feet behind.

MATT: He's writing little notes, checking on the
lizards, making little notes, and as you walk up

he looks at you. "Yes, may I help you?"

MARISHA: Yes, be pleased.

MATT: "Be pleased."

MARISHA: What are these magnificent creatures
you're racing?

MATT: "Have you not played this before?"

MARISHA: No, I'm a tourist, so I'm brand new.

MATT: "This is my surprised face. This is Quan a
Drensal, or The Run of Luck. It is a traditional

"old Marquet game of chance. It's what the casino
is partially named after. It was founded on this

"particular sport, if you will. People bet on which
lizard reaches the end first. Then the people who

"choose correctly make a profit. The second makes
half back what was bet. The rest lose all to the house."

MARISHA: Is it possible for me to get a closer
look at the specimens you are racing?

MATT: "Why?"

MARISHA: I'm a purveyor of fabulous beasts and I
just want to see these fabulous creatures you're

raising and racing.

MATT: Make a persuasion check.

MARISHA: God damn it; this is not what I'm good
at.

TALIESIN: Nope.

MARISHA: Ten!

MATT: He goes, "If you wish to put down enough
money to make it worth my while to inspect your

"investment then perhaps we can talk. However
tourists I keep away from the money making."

MARISHA: How does 200 gold sound?

SAM: Well, shit.

MATT: "Well, that is higher than the 25 gold
minimum buy-in, so yes. Which of the lizards would

"you like to bet on? We have Rul, Sonpa, Thordak,
Wendis, and Devo'ssa."

MARISHA: What did you just say? Sorry, what was
the third name that you said?

MATT: "Thordak."

MARISHA: Did you say Thordak?

MATT: "Yes."

MARISHA: What a fascinating name. Where did that
one come from?

MATT: "It came from the stupid bastard that
attacked this city hundreds of years ago."

MARISHA: Oh, wow, yeah. No, I was just wondering
if there was any correlation.

SAM: Always bid on Thordak.

MATT: "Because it's a tiny, puny piece of shit
lizard. Of course it is."

MARISHA: Can I get a closer look at them?

MATT: "Which one are you betting on?"

MARISHA: I would like to get a closer look at them
before I decide on where to put my well-earned

money.

MATT: He stands back and the two guards muscle a
little closer as he goes, "Have a look." And you lean

forward and glance across the front of the cages.
They all have this reddish-yellow sand-type scaled

exterior; darker at the top and lighter on the
underbelly. And they're all pretty much the same

size; age may differ; you can't really tell which
ones are healthy or not from this distance. What

are you looking for?

MARISHA: How close are the guys to me?

MATT: To you? There a like foot from you maybe.
They're both being very careful. They're watching

you very closely.

TALIESIN: I'm going to engage the man in a bit of
conversation. So is it a straight bet across or

are there competing numbers based on historical
averages for these creatures at this point? Where

is the money going, at the moment?

MATT: "The money right now, we have currently a
total of 750 gold pieces placed in total on the

"Rul who has apparently been doing very well for
the day. Sonpa has been failing miserably but it

"might be the underdog, who knows; they're all in
equal health. And the variations can be plenty.

"Wendis is okay; Thordak has characteristically no
votes. De'vossa has a decent amount. It is up to you.

"What do you wish?"

MARISHA: While they're having this conversation,
I'm going to lean into the lizards and cast Speak

with Animals.

MATT: All right, go ahead and make a sleight of
hand check.

MARISHA: Very under my breath.

SAM: Getting tossed from the casino.

MARISHA: Here we go again!

MATT: Well, let's have a look at Speak with
Animals. Let's see exactly what components it

requires.

MARISHA: Oh no.

MATT: Because this is going to largely--

MARISHA: Very discreetly.

MATT: Verbal and somatic so yeah. Sleight of
hand.

SAM: What is that?

TALIESIN: That's a one.

LAURA: Is that a one?

TALIESIN: Of course it's a one.

LAURA: Oh no! Keyleth, don't get arrested again!

TRAVIS: You're like the biggest felon of our
group.

MATT: Not even two minutes in the Luck's Front
Casino, you lean forward and begin muttering

beneath your breath the various druidic
incantations and as your fingers begin to

manipulate the spectrums of divine energies in
your hand, a giant, meaty arm claps down on your hand

and pulls you to the side, and the guard pulls you
off your feet at his face. "Excuse me, are you

"trying to do funny business?"

MARISHA: I'm very bad at funny. You talk to other
people in our group for funny.

TALIESIN: I'm ignoring this.

MATT: "You are out of the Run." And the other
gentleman grabs your shoulder and they begin

pushing you out, towards the exit of the Luck's Run.

MARISHA: Oh, don't, come on, man. Look--

MATT: Anybody do anything?

TRAVIS: Nope.

MATT: All right. As you're conversing with this
gentleman, you watch as Keyleth gets pushed very

forcefully towards the back door on the opposite
side of the chamber and kicked out onto the

street; like full on boot-to-the-ass, about a
three foot arc before slamming onto the dark red

cobblestone streets of the Suncut Bazaar.

MARISHA: You guys. I just got kicked out of a
casino! I'm so cool! I'm cool, Scanlan, I'm cool!

MATT: By the way, you lost your concentration and
currently the shoulders are now dampered.

MARISHA: Guys, I'm a little soggy, but I'm so
cool!

LAURA: That was really cool, Keyleth.

TALIESIN: I think I'll put 25 on Thordak.

KEYLETH: Yeah, can I forward my bet?

TALIESIN: Let's put 25 on Thordak.

LAURA: I'm not putting any money on Thordak.

MATT: You never actually put your money down.

MARISHA: Oh good, I didn't lose 200 gold.

TALIESIN: I'm going to put 25 on Thordak.

LAURA: I'm going to put 25 on the second one that
doesn't have any bets.

MATT: Okay, let's see here; we have 25 on Thordak
and then we have--

LAURA: The one that you said hasn't--

MATT: Which is Sonpa.

LIAM: If it's any consolation, that was totally
adorable. Just wait outside for us; we'll be out

in a bit.

MATT: And how much money you put down?

LAURA: 25 gold as well. All right, no, I don't want
to look like I'm putting down the minimum; that's

pathetic.

TALIESIN: No, we're learning the game. No one's
going to give you anything. We're learning the

game. We don't have to be big spenders here.

LAURA: 25 gold. You've got to spend big to make
big, Percy.

TALIESIN: Yeah, but you've got to learn the game.

MATT: 25 gold buy-in for two of you on two
different lizards. 25 on Thordak, 25 on Sonpa. The

rest of the bets come in, they're marked down, the
coins are put on the table in corresponding

colors, you guys place them completely incorrectly,
and they correct them for you and glare. You watch

as the gentleman who's running the event goes,
(Marquesian). He lifts up the front of

the gates, and all the lizards start
scurrying out rapidly. Everyone comes in real fast

and begins cheering and cheering and chanting the
different names of the people they put money on.

All right, as we come around, we are rolling for
each individual lizard for the entirety of this

endeavor. Yeah, I have rolls for all the different
lizards.

LAURA: Oh, that's adorable. Go underdog!

MATT: All right, so. Rul. Be prepared. All right.

SAM: He's just rolling once to see--

LAURA: Natural one.

MATT: It's 2d4 for each one to see how well they
do.

SAM: 2d4! It's your rules, you could do anything! It
could be 1d8! Why does it have to be 2d4?

TALIESIN: What a good excuse to finally order a d9
and have the d9 only for this game.

MARISHA: (giggles) Only for lizard racing.

SAM: Makes no sense!

MATT: And with that, you watch as they curve
around each corner, skittering forward and past.

They come around the far end and they come rushing
back on the opposite side of the table. People are

shouting. One gentleman to the left of you, Vex,
seems to have some large cigar-type thing and is

blustering out smoke in your vicinity, making you
cough a bit, but you're still focused on this. You

watch as Rul pulls ahead; Thordak pulls ahead and
pulls back. Sonpa pushes forward, and Wendis is

falling behind. De'vossa gets close and barely scoots
past, and De'vossa is the winner.

LAURA: Do I get anything for second place?

MATT: Second place, you get back half of what you
bet so you get 13 gold pieces back. You lose your

bet. A few other gentlemen seem to be happy and
collect their winnings, and far more seem to be

disappointed with the outcome. Some leave; a few
more fill the spaces and come back around. The Run

of Luck is complete.

LIAM: What's it like outside?

MARISHA: (whispers) What's it like outside?

MATT: It's dark, but beautiful with the various
lanterns that are now lit. There's carts being

pulled by. Some folks are leaving for the evening,
some folks are bringing things into the bazaar.

They prefer to actually shop during the evening, 
whatever their wares may be, you don't know. But it

seems lively.

MARISHA: It's dark, and I'm in a shady alleyway,
and I'm alone. It's great.

LIAM: You know, maybe go out to the front where
the people are. You don't need to be in the back

with the dumpster.

MARISHA: Yeah, no, I guess so. But it's so
pretty.

MATT: All right, so?

LAURA: It takes everything in my power not to keep
betting, but we should probably walk away.

TALIESIN: Let's try another game; I'm not feeling
this one. I don't like betting on live little--

LAURA: As we walk around, we keep an eye out for
Scanlan's red shirt.

SAM: I'm trying to wander away from them as best I
can.

MATT: Right. So you keep your way wandering
through the casino, looking over different

games and such. You come across a card game. This
one you've actually heard of it though you haven't

actually seen it played before. It's called the
Gambit of Ord. It's a competitive card game

between a group of card players at a table. That
actually has a buy in, but can raise per round

back and forth based on who drops out and who
doesn't. There is a dice game called Avandra's

Favor that involves you actually rolling 2d6 and
if you get either a seven or a 12, you win, but

you can double the bet to add an
additional d6 to try and get either a seven or a

12 if the numbers don't quite meet one or the
other.

SAM: Go there.

TALIESIN: We're going there.

MATT: So you go to the dice game.

LAURA: Yeah!

MATT: So you go to the Avandra's Favor tables.

LAURA: I want to use my gold dice.

MATT: So you have to wait a moment as there is a
small line of people queued up to go ahead and

place their bets for the dice. Each person is
betting on each individual as they go in, whether

or not they're going to make it. You wait for
about 15 or so minutes before you watch a couple

folks lose horribly and walk away very
sorrowful about how much they lost in trying to

push their luck as they step away and it's finally
your turn. And the woman who's currently helping

this table goes, "And you, miss, you are here to
play?"

LAURA: This game.

MATT: "Yes, Avandra's Favor?"

LAURA: Yes, that!

MATT: "All right! So what is your initial bet, my
dear?"

LAURA: I can't actually remember what you said the
rules were, so what's the minimum bet?

MATT: "25 gold pieces."

LAURA: Okay.

TALIESIN: How much for the extended bet?

MATT: How much do you want?

TALIESIN: To get the third die?

SAM: I think you roll first--

LAURA: And then you add, you can double your bet
to add--

MATT: To add an additional die.

LAURA: Okay. Then I'm going to put 25 down, just
to see how it goes.

MATT: "25 gold pieces, please."

LAURA: Okay, here we go.

MATT: Mark that off.

LAURA: Oh, I'm marking.

MATT: She slides it into your square. "All right,
now, roll the dice, and may Avandra be with you."

LAURA: Okay, what am I rolling?

MATT: 2d6.

LAURA: 2d6. You got it. Where's my other?

SAM: This is the most important roll--

LAURA: Of my life. They're gold dice, they're the
gold dice. Eight.

MATT: "Eight? Ah."

LAURA: Oh god! This is a hard game! You lose
really easily!

MATT: "Beyond seven, very close! Now, I could take
the coin, or you could double your bet and add one

"more die."

LAURA: To get to 12?

TALIESIN: To get to 12, or any combination of
seven of two, or all three must be 12.

LAURA: All right, I'm going to double my bet and
I'm going to throw one more dice in the --

MATT: "50 gold."

LAURA: 50 gold, yes.

MATT: She takes the rest. All right, go ahead and
add one more dice. Eight plus--?

LAURA: Aw, it was almost a four! It was a five.

MATT: "Avandra is not by your side this moment. I
am so sorry."

LAURA: No, it's fine, it's really super-duper fun!

TALIESIN: I need to take a round of this as well.
All right, I'm going in as well.

MATT: "All right, 25 gold?"

TALIESIN: 25 gold from my wonderful--

MATT: "Now, roll the dice, and may Avandra be with
you."

MARISHA: Percy luck!

LIAM: Does it only work with 20s?

LAURA: He didn't even look.

SAM: Seven.

(cheering)

MATT: "First at the table! Avandra has kissed upon
your forehead! Please, take your winnings." And

she gives you 50 gold back.

LAURA: Ooh, 50 gold back? You should try it again.
You've made money now.

SAM: This is a streak at this point.

TALIESIN: I'll put 25 more in.

MATT: "25 gold? Oh, but you've already proven that
this has been conquerable. Are you sure 25 is all

"you wish to pay?"

MARISHA: She's good.

MATT: "The goddess watches over you this moment.
How long she may last, we do not know!"

TALIESIN: 25 is fine. I don't believe in luck.

MATT: "Hmm."

LAURA: You should.

MATT: "Roll your dice."

TALIESIN: Six.

MATT: "Mm, unfortunate."

TALIESIN: I'll put in the 25 for one more die.

MATT: "All right, a bet of 50. Roll your one more
die."

TALIESIN: No.

MATT: "The goddess left you. Sorry."

TALIESIN: It was a wonderful thrill. Good
evening.

MATT: "Good evening to you as well."

LAURA: I tip her two extra gold, because that's
what you're supposed to do.

MATT: "Thank you kindly. Next up!" And another
gentleman muscles past and throws down his coin.

"My turn!" He sits down, and other folks come in
and begin to watch his next turn go. As this is

happening, you're making your way through the
casino.

TALIESIN: Let's find the cheap drinks.

SAM: Yeah, I've forgotten, Matt, did they say to
meet in a specific spot, or was it they'll know

you from your red shirt?

MATT: They'll know you from your red shirt.

SAM: Okay, so then I am going up to, I'm walking
past some of the higher rollers that I see, and as

I walk past I'm going, (clears throat) I'm the
guy. I'm the guy. (clears throat) It's me.

(clears throat, whispers) I'm the guy. And keep 
walking if they don't--

MATT: About 20 minutes of this as you're watching
over, and some folks look down, expecting to see a

child, are spooked by it. In your time here,
you've only really come across maybe two other

gnomes. They're not very prominent here in
Ank'Harel as a people, so some folks give you an

odd look to the side, a sideways glance as you
step around. At one point you do feel one hand

clasp onto your shoulder. You glance up and you
see a nice, billowing, dark blue silk shirt across

a half-orc gentleman with his hair slicked back,
short, over the edge of his scalp. He has a really

well-trimmed goatee and a very big hoop gold
earring in one ear. His hand is wrapped around

your shoulder and he goes, "So. Verdaven said we
are to speak, yes?"

SAM: Maybe.

MATT: "Well, then. Follow me to more private
quarters where we can have a conversation."

SAM: Lead the way.

MATT: He releases your shoulder and begins walking
up the stairs to the second floor.

SAM: I'll join him.

MATT: All right.

LAURA: Did we see him walking up the stairs?

MATT: Make a perception check.

TALIESIN: I'll join in that perception check.

MATT: You kept your eye the whole time, that was
your goal, so you see this happen.

MARISHA: Guys, get me a drink!

TALIESIN: 21.

LAURA: 15.

MATT: Okay. So yeah, Percy, Vax, and Vex, all
three of you see Scanlan led upstairs, trailing

behind this well-dressed half-orc individual.

MARISHA: If they have a Chardonnay?

TALIESIN: I was going to go red.

MARISHA: That works. A Shiraz would be
phenomenal.

MATT: You guys following, or are you staying where
you are?

LIAM: These stairs are peopled? Or are they empty
other than Scanlan and this other guy?

MATT: Occasional foot traffic up and down. There
does appear to be one of the various hired

ruffians to keep the peace around this vicinity at
the landing, up where the stairs stop and then

head further up.

LAURA: Is the gambling only at the first level, or
is it up higher levels as well?

MATT: You haven't been to the second floor.

LAURA: I think I'll, after a little bit, grab a
drink and then--

TALIESIN: Drunkenly head up.

LAURA: Yeah.

MATT: Okay. So you guys head to get a drink.

LIAM: Can I ride my 20 up the stairs?

MATT: I'd say at this point, because you're no
longer hiding in a corner, you're actually

entering a social place, you'll have to go ahead
and roll another stealth check.

LIAM: That's fine, 31.

MATT: Okay. So as opposed to just being out of
sight, you are trained in the idea of blending in,

making various subtle movements to not catch
anyone's attention, and to match the energy of the

room about you so as to not stand out amongst the
crowd. You adjust some of your clothing to match

some of the shoulder-tossed shawls that some of
the folks in here wear, and you naturally fall

into the general atmosphere of the casino.

LIAM: I'm still wearing the fancy whites that
Percival put over me the other day.

MATT: Not a worry. You follow up the stairs and up
top you do see there are a couple more tables in a

center room, and six doors on each side of this
long run, before another staircase heads up to the

third floor of this establishment. The half-orc
walks to the fourth door on the left, pulls out a

key, pulls the door open, glances over his
shoulder for a second, and enters the room.

SAM: I will gladly follow.

MATT: As you turn the corner and enter the room,
there is a singular table. There are two chairs

facing each other. There appears to be some small--

(mooing in music track)

TALIESIN: There's an ox in the corner.

LIAM: You can do anything you want in this place.

TALIESIN: How much for ten minutes with the ox? Be
fair.

MATT: As you enter the room, you see there are a
few tables on the far side. There is a window that

looks out that is currently closed, and the
half-orc is now standing on the opposite side of

the table.

SAM: (clears throat) So what have you got for me?

MATT: You enter and sit down?

SAM: Oh, yes, I enter and sit down.

MATT: Okay, you sit down. As you sit down, the
door closes behind you and you see the half-elf that

you had met earlier in the alleyway was behind the
door, walks around and leaves the room, closing

the door behind him. You hear (lock clicking). The
half-orc has sat down and goes, "So you were

"asking about spice."

SAM: Again, maybe.

MATT: "Specifically, if I am to understand, 200
gold worth of fusaka?"

SAM: Maybe more, if it's of a higher quality.

MATT: "Well. Let it be known that I brought, just
in case, twice the amount." He reaches off to the

side and opens one of the small cupboards that's
part of the table arrangement on that side of the

room, and pulls out two satchels that are about
that big around each, and lifts them both, one

after the other, onto the table. They are tied at
the very top. It's a high-quality burlap-type

material on the outside, only the weave is much
tighter so it's not liable to leak or stumble out.

"So it is difficult to acquire this. I would say
one for 250, or both for 400 gold."

SAM: How do I know it's of a quality I'm
accustomed to, from my homeland?

MATT: "Because I have a reputation to uphold. If
you wish not to have any, perhaps you find

"business with less viable options."

SAM: Forgive me, I'm not from around here. I don't
know of your reputation. Could I possibly have a

sample to see?

MATT: Make a persuasion check.

LIAM: While he's doing that, I'm pretending to
sort of drunkenly lean on the wall outside that door.

TALIESIN: Did that just happen?

LAURA: What was it?

SAM: 20.

(yelling)

MATT: All right. As you glance and look around the
side, you can see a tan-skinned half-elf in robes

waiting impatiently with his back against the door
that you barely saw Scanlan disappear into after

he walked out. He gives you a look over. "Should
you wish, but be careful not to inhale too

"deeply." Then he takes the rope and unfurls and
unties it, takes the satchel, and pushes it over

towards you.

SAM: The whole satchel?

MATT: The entire satchel.

TRAVIS: Do you know if it's a powder, or a plant?

LIAM: It's the cinnamon challenge.

LAURA: What does it look like?

SAM: Yeah, what does it look like?

MATT: Well, it's halfway across the table. You go
ahead and pull it towards you?

SAM: Oh, I'll pull it towards me, yeah.

MATT: It's a little heavier than you expected.
It's not a light thing, it's a very heavy

material. As you pull it forward, it looks like
very, very finely mulched bark almost, or

shavings, and it has this pungent smell like dried
cheese with a hint of cedar.

SAM: What is this shit! It's not a fine powder,
it's chunky?

MATT: It's chunky to an extent, and as you're
looking over it, he goes, "It requires additional

"refining for use, of course."

SAM: Of course. This isn't my first rodeo,
friend.

TRAVIS: Put it in your lip, put it in your lip!

SAM: Being that I play stringed instruments, I
have long nails, so I'll take my pinky and sort of

dip down and get a little on the end of my pinky,
smell it a bit, on my gums a little bit.

TALIESIN: Sweet Christmas.

LAURA: The cedar wood chips.

MATT: The smell is strong, and the taste is
stronger. It is not pleasant to the tongue. The

aftertaste does have a unique zest to it. There is
a slight numbness, and while the initial flavor is

awful, the lingering flavor is actually quite
nice, like a spiced meat almost. It catches you

off guard.

SAM: Spiced meat. Am I feeling high at all?

MATT: Make a constitution check.

MARISHA: How fast is your metabolism?

SAM: Constitution check? I've never checked my
constitution --

MATT: Saving throw.

SAM: Saving throw. Well, either way it's 16.

MATT: 16, okay. Best you can tell there's no
immediate effect. You don't know what it's

supposed to do. It doesn't seem to be having an
effect on you at the moment.

SAM: I'll do a little bit more. Get it on my
tongue.

TRAVIS: Up the nose?

SAM: (sniffing) Just a little bit more to see if
it's doing anything.

MATT: Make another constitution saving throw.

SAM: 16.

MATT: Still seemingly no effect, and you can see
the half-orc is starting to get a little impatient

and frustrated. "So you have tried of the wares.
Are you satisfied?"

SAM: I'm not dead. I guess that's good. You know,
where I'm from sometimes we burn it and inhale it

that way. Is that done? What methods do you guys
use here?

MATT: His head pulls back a bit and he goes, "You
may do as you wish with it upon purchasing. That

"is up to you. I am a little worried that you may
not be regulating your intake."

SAM: Don't worry about me, friend, all right? My
mom and dad, that's their job, all right? All

right. I guess I'll take it. Your reputation and
the seeming good quality makes me believe that

this is of a fine caliber, quality, how that's--
ugh. Stings a little in the eyes, that's all.

MATT: "That it would."

SAM: For two satchels like this, why don't we say
300?

MATT: His immediate eager lean forward slips back
into an arms-crossed. "400 was already a discount."

SAM: Fair enough. 400 it is.

MATT: "400." He takes the other satchel and is
about to push it forward and is seemingly waiting.

SAM: For me to pay him? Sure, I'll drop four
hundred large.

MATT: Okay.

SAM: Four hundred thousand dollars.

MATT: As you both wait a moment and pause, you
both shove it across at the same time, and he

catches the coin pouch after watching you count it
across the table. Both your satchels are at your

disposal. He goes, "It has been a pleasure doing
business with you. If it's not too much to ask, in

"case you require further assistance, what shall I
call you?"

SAM: You can call me The Meat Man.

(snorting and giggling)

MATT: "The Meat Man. I hope to do more business
with you in the future, Meat Man."

SAM: And what shall I call you?

MATT: "I have a few titles, but in these circles,
you may call me Rutur."

SAM: Rutur?

MATT: "Rutur."

SAM: Rutur. And so I'm clear here, this is a drug,
right?

MATT: "Of course it is."

SAM: Oh! Really? I'm not feeling it yet, do I need
to do more of it, is that the thing?

MATT: "It does not affect you immediately."

SAM: Oh. It doesn't?

ALL: Oh, shit.

SAM: All right, great, thanks, bye!

MATT: He takes his coin, gets up, walks around the
table, knocks on the door, a couple knocks. It

opens, the half-elf peers through. The door opens
completely. He stops as you say that.

SAM: Sorry. I've got two big bags of drugs. Could
you give me a backpack or something to put this

in? I mean, I can't walk out of the casino holding
this.

MATT: The half-orc rolls his eyes, looks over to
the half-elf and goes, (speaking Marquesian). The

other one turns. (sighs) "I'll be right back." And
he goes to one of the other rooms. In 30 seconds,

he comes back with some sort of a backpack-type
ensemble and tosses it to you. You catch it. "Now,

"should you need more, just ask around the bazaar."
And they both quickly head down the stairs past you.

SAM: As they go, I say to them, remember, we met,
but you did not meet the Meat Man.

MATT: They both stop on their step and look at
each other and keep walking. They exit the casino

and you have your satchel.

SAM: Okay. (breathing heavily) I hyperventilate
for a second. I don't know what's going on. Where

are you guys? Where are you guys?

LIAM: I place my hand right on his shoulder.

SAM: (yells in surprise) It's not me, it's not,
they're not mine! And I throw it across the room.

LIAM: I catch it! Grab him by the scruff of the
shirt and start leading him back down the stairs.

What the fuck is wrong with you?

SAM: Don't say anything. I've got lots of drugs.

LIAM: Why are your eyes all bloodshot? What's
the matter with you?

SAM: I don't know what I did.

LIAM: Is it this?

SAM: Maybe! It hasn't affected me yet!

TALIESIN: No! No! What are you doing?

MATT: Make a constitution saving throw.

LAURA: Oh, you rolled really well.

LIAM: I rolled good, yeah, 19.

MATT: Seemingly no effect, little bit of numbness
in the gum where you placed it.

LIAM: That tastes terrible.

SAM: I know! I don't know what it's supposed to
do!

LIAM: Do I do more?

SAM: I think so!

MATT: As time passes, the after flavor does get
better, actually, surprisingly.

LIAM: That's good. Maybe I'll do more.

SAM: Yeah, just one more.

MATT: (chuckling) Make another constitution saving
throw.

LIAM: Aw, 15.

MATT: Aftertaste is quite nice.

LIAM: I've wanted to get high with you for so
long! This is so cool!

SAM: One more.

LIAM: You're right. We're in a casino, life is so
fucking hard these days, why not? Both of us

together, right?

SAM: Yeah!

LIAM: All right, here we go.

MATT: You guys make a constitution saving throw.

LIAM: Two.

SAM: 13.

TRAVIS: Chew on it.

MATT: The aftertaste is nice.

LAURA: It's a spice.

TRAVIS: Chew on it!

LIAM: This is so boring.

SAM: We'll talk to some locals and figure out how
we're really supposed to do it.

LIAM: I'm going to get Kiki some fucking elven
wine. Come on. And I yank him down the stairs.

TALIESIN: We've already been waiting in line for
the most colorful, ridiculous drink that we can

get. Something with whatever's the local version
of an umbrella.

MATT: For the cost of two gold pieces amongst the
three of you, or four of you, if you're a part of

this as well, Grog--

MARISHA: The slushy margaritas.

TRAVIS: No, I'm hitting on ladies.

SAM: Yeah!

MATT: With a simple shoulder tap and an
introduction, they turn with a smile and stare

directly into the rhino-like helmet on your
forehead, seem confused, and lose interest very

quickly.

TRAVIS: You clearly do not know how rich I am as
the Countess of Febreze. I own many magnificent

horses.

MATT: Make a deception check.

TRAVIS: 15.

MATT: Now, the third woman you've come across in
here turns around. She's maybe early forties,

graying sides to her hair, pulled up tight, but
impeccable makeup, beautiful jeweled earrings. She

turns and gives you a glance. "Oh, well, my
apologies for not recognizing greatness in my

"presence. So why do you bother me?"

TRAVIS: Well, I am looking for a companion for the
evening. I've had a great victory and I was hoping

I might celebrate it with a fine lass like
yourself.

MATT: "I do not mean to blush in the presence of
such greatness, ha. I need to speak to my

"compatriot first. Honey?" And this gentleman turns
around, in fairly nice attire, dark blacks,

jeweled necklaces, dark skin, square jaw, rather
well-built, a human. Turns and goes, "Yes, my

"dear?" "This fine fellow here is asking to spend
the night with me, if that's all right with you."

And he goes, (chuckles) "What, this one?"

TRAVIS: Yes, yes, I am the magister of Sh'breeze,
and I have many steeds. A night with me would

truly honor your lady fair.

MATT: They both share a glance and look back at
you, and he goes, "Piss off, half-born putz."

LAURA: Oh, shit.

MATT: "Piss off." And he takes her arm by his side
and pulls her close to him.

TRAVIS: I reach out and I grab his
shoulder. I say: I'm so sorry, this amazing

decorative piece on my head sometimes impedes my
hearing. I take the hat off. What was it you

called me?

MATT: Make an intimidation check.

MARISHA: Oh shit! Casino fight!

LAURA: Oh no!

SAM: Two people thrown out of the club!

MARISHA: Let's all get thrown out! Yeah! Natural one
buddies! Grog and Keyleth, on fire tonight!

MATT: As you lean in, he leans back and goes, "Oh,
well, I'm sorry, I did not realize that was not

"part of your actual forehead." You feel, now,
several hands meet your shoulders as it appears

about five of the various guards of the
establishment have encircled you, grabbed you, and

are now pulling you away from the group.

TRAVIS: Oh, I asked for a woman, not dudes, no
really, I just wanted one lady.

MATT: They're grabbing you by the arms, now, and
they're pulling you toward the entrance.

TRAVIS: Now, I'm not going to pay for this,
really, I'm not. I'm very important!

MATT: And it takes all five of them, but they do
manage to (grunt) heave-ho you out onto your face

across the cobblestones, where Keyleth is there
waiting, watching this happen.

MARISHA: Grog!

TRAVIS: Kiki!

MARISHA: Hey buddy!

TALIESIN: Are we at the bar?

MATT: You guys have just gotten your drinks, which
are --

TALIESIN: Do they have to-go cups? We'll take
four. Just one of every color. Just one of every

color.

MATT: The guy at the front goes, "Well, certainly.
That would be an additional gold piece per drink."

MARISHA: Percy, get me the flashy cup!

LAURA: I'm going to down mine really fast and then
take another one to go, thanks.

TALIESIN: I'll put down for the four cups.

MARISHA: I want the one that's in the shape of the
tower of Ord.

MATT: "Six gold, please."

SAM: That's a yard glass.

MATT: All right, you have your drinks.

TALIESIN: I take them outside and begin
distributing them.

MATT: The cups themselves probably cost about
three copper each.

TALIESIN: God I hope so. It's about the memory.

MATT: You all are a bunch of out-of-towners being
taken for a ride by every one of these patrons who

comes across you.

LIAM: This is so much fusaka. What is Jarett or
anybody going to do with this?

LAURA: Let's go back to the rooms.

SAM: We need to find out if it's real. Should we
go back and ask those guys who sold this to me?

LIAM: I took three hits of this, and it has done
nothing.

LAURA: Come on, let's go back to the room and do
some experiments on it. Yes? Grog?

TRAVIS: Thank you. (belches)

MARISHA: Did you guys bring me a drink?

TALIESIN: We did, yep, there's that. I give her
the most colorful, most ridiculous thing I can

find, in the most ridiculous cup they have.

LAURA: We head back to the hotel, to the inn.

MARISHA: (giggling) I love this city!

MATT: So you head back to the Debt's Respite, you
go back to your respective rooms, finish your

drinks along the way. You have your Luck's Run
collectible to-go cups that you bought off the

barkeep because, sure.

TALIESIN: It's not like I've never bought a
ridiculous plastic dragon necklace with the

flashing LEDs before.

LIAM: I disappointedly drop the backpack in
Scanlan's lap and say: Here's your fucking

cinnamon, you idiot.

SAM: Are you sure it's not real?

MARISHA: What'd you guys get? What's it look
like?

SAM: It looks like nothing. Hey, can you nature
check this? You're a nature person.

MARISHA: I can try.

MATT: Yeah, make a nature check.

LAURA: Let's set it on fire and see what happens.

MARISHA: Okay, but first I'm going to nature check
it.

TALIESIN: The phrase "Let's set it on fire and see
what happens" usually doesn't work out well.

TRAVIS: That's a good idea.

LAURA: It looks like wood.

MARISHA: 14.

MATT: 14. I mean, it resembles a few things in
your past that you've come across, when cut down

and processed, but you're not familiar with this
one, unfortunately.

MARISHA: But it does seem plant-based?

MATT: Yeah, it is definitely natural.

MARISHA: I take a little finger-dippie.

TRAVIS: What are you doing with it?

MATT: There's a brief bit of numbness that comes
to your gums. The flavor is awful, and then it

fades into a pleasant, smoky flavor.

LAURA: Does it taste like it would be good on a
sandwich?

MARISHA: It'd be great on a rack of lamb.

TRAVIS: Are you high?

MARISHA: Am I high?

MATT: Make a constitution check.

LIAM: It's got to be a natural one.

MATT: Constitution saving throw, at least.

MARISHA: Saving throw? 19.

MATT: 19. You seem to be fine.

TRAVIS: Aw, fuck it. I take a big old wad out of
the thing and I stick a big old chunk in my lip.

TALIESIN: Only because everybody's being an idiot,
can I recommend that we perhaps try grinding it up

into a tea, or something?

TRAVIS: 16.

SAM: He's fine.

MATT: I mean, the initial taste is not bad. You've
eaten far worse. And the lingering flavor is quite

delicious.

TRAVIS: This is really nice. Should I swallow it?

SAM: Yeah, I guess.

LAURA: I don't know, Grog.

TRAVIS: All right, I swallow it.

MATT: (gulping sound) No effect. A few minutes go
by, your stomach gets a little upset, but then it

passes. Yeah, a little bit, but then it passes.

MARISHA: I take a little bit in my hands and I
light it with my flame hands to see what happens.

TALIESIN: Oh no.

MATT: Okay. The flame takes it, leaving behind
this burning ember. The smoke emanates off of it.

It gives this little plume of grayish brown.

MARISHA: I waft it a little bit.

MATT: Smells really nice.

LIAM: It is hilarious how badly we all want this
to be heroin, and it's not.

TRAVIS: Can we free-base this shit?

MATT: It smells like a very fancy kitchen.

LAURA: Can I walk downstairs and find the
innkeeper?

MATT: Yeah, yeah. As you head downstairs --

TALIESIN: I'm going to take a little bit, I'm
going to mortar and pestle a little bit, and make

a tea.

MATT: Eventually you find Treev is down there,
watching over the counter.

LAURA: Hey, Treev. Hi.

MATT: "Oi, hi, how do you do."

LAURA: I'm looking for a meal. I'm a little
homesick. I'm hoping you have a meal that

maybe has some fusaka in it?

MATT: "Oh, we got a bit over here. It's a bit
pricey."

LAURA: Oh, it is a pricey spice, yeah.

MATT: "A bit, at least, for what it's worth. You
only want to use bits and pieces in the meats."

LAURA: Right.

MATT: "Use too much and it spoils the flavor."

LAURA: Of course. It wouldn't do anything to your
body if you had too much of it, would it?

MATT: "You'd probably get sick a bit, I imagine."

LAURA: Probably. Right.

SAM: I'm upstairs trying to take it anally.

(laughter)

SAM: Come on, this'll work! This will work!

TRAVIS: Trainspotting. This is Trainspotting.

LAURA: Tell you what, I'm going to save the money.
I think I'll hold off on the fusaka for tonight,

but maybe later. Thank you.

TALIESIN: I've ground and powdered a tea, and
placed it in the room and walked away.

LIAM: I'm sorry to say that I am watching Scanlan,
fascinated.

TALIESIN: I'm not. My head is turned around. I'm
sketching things.

SAM: No one lies to the Meat Man. I want to go
back to that place and get my revenge. Are you

with me, Vax?

LIAM: Vex, Vax? Which of us?

SAM: Vax!

LIAM: Yeah, sure, buddy.

MARISHA: Why do you need revenge? You got the
product you bought, right?

TRAVIS: How's your butt feeling?

SAM: It feels a little tingly, but overall just
fine.

MATT: It does itch.

TALIESIN: Does he have to make another
constitution check at this point?

MATT: No, you've pretty much figured out at this
point that it is just a flavoring spice.

LAURA: Here's the thing, he said it's an expensive
spice. Maybe it was worth however much you spent

on it. Tell me how much you spent on this.

SAM: Like, 50.

LAURA: Oh, 50 gold, that's a lot, but I think it
should be fine.

TALIESIN: You spent 50 gold on this? Good god!

(laughter)

LAURA: You can make 50 gold back betting in the
casino later.

TALIESIN: It was 50 gold as a fine lesson, though.
Real worth it.

LIAM: If you really want to go get revenge, I
will get revenge with you, but I think we should

call it a loss. 50 gold is a piddly thing. Is that
a word? No.

TALIESIN: If it were any more, I'd feel bad, but
it's only 50 gold. I'd feel like an idiot.

LIAM: You are upset.

TALIESIN: I think he's just had too much spice.

TRAVIS: He's foreseeing the Washington Redskins
season.

LAURA: They said it could make your stomach upset
if you've had too much. Have you had too much?

SAM: He lied to me.

LIAM: Let me get you a drink. You want me to go
down and get you a drink?

SAM: Don't spend any money on it.

TALIESIN: I've got a great idea. I'm going to get
a little bit of the wine, of the ridiculous wine

that we got. I'm going to pour a little bit into
my new collector cup that I got, and I'm going to

sprinkle it with some of the powdered spice.

SAM: Maybe it has to activate that way!

TALIESIN: Here, there you are! Down that, that'll
go quite well.

LAURA: Oh, he drank the whole thing!

MATT: Those flavors didn't mingle too well. You
feel a little queasy.

LAURA: Is that the wine that was like--

TRAVIS: Yes.

LAURA: Grog's wine?

MATT: Oh wait. Oh, this was the sandkheg?

TALIESIN: Yeah, just a little bit of the
sandkheg.

MATT: Make a constitution saving throw.

SAM: 17.

MATT: 17, okay. Beneath your nose, you can't feel
anything. And right now, yeah, from here down. You

guys watch as his tongue is hanging out, and you
watch as drool is now pouring down the side of his chin.

LAURA: Scanlan?

SAM: (thickly) Huh? That's good shit.

TALIESIN: I'm going to very gently try and take
the gold medal that he got today away from him

while he's numb. Just try and pickpocket him.

MATT: Make a sleight of hand check.

TALIESIN: Okay.

SAM: (more inarticulate noises)

MARISHA: Oh my god. It's the night of all the
natural ones.

LAURA: Oh no.

MATT: Heh. Out of the corner of your eye, you see
Percy pulling a shiny object from around your

shoulders.

TALIESIN: Ugh! No slapping! No, don't slap!

LIAM: I walk over to Scanlan and I squat down and
I start play-doh'ing his face in all different

shapes, pulling the cheeks out really wide,
pulling the nose up as--

LAURA: We should get him to bed.

LIAM: If only I had scotch tape.

TRAVIS: So like, should we sleep? Because I know
we still wanted to see Headmaster James Kryon at

the Crystal Chateau.

TALIESIN: Yes, let's get an evening's sleep.

LIAM: Yeah, and we need to fix Scanlan before--

TRAVIS: Maybe he needs to be slapped sober.

LAURA: We're still waiting to hear back on
Mistress Asharru?

TALIESIN: Yes, we are still waiting on that.

LAURA: Yes. So we can't leave here.

TRAVIS: Mister Ashad?

LAURA: The one with the cloak.

TALIESIN: And we have several magical items that
could use a little bit of jiggery-pokery, so let's

sleep this off, perhaps, and be excited that we're
bringing a friend a taste of home at the bargain

of 50 gold.

LAURA: But I have to say, I'm glad Jarett didn't
send us on a mission to get drugs. It's quite out

of character.

TALIESIN: I mean, you know.

SAM: (inarticulate noise)

LIAM: I've got my pinkies in the sides of
Scanlan's mouth.

LAURA: Leave him alone. He's pathetic enough as it
is, really.

SAM: (sobbing)

TRAVIS: All right, I'm going to bed.

LAURA: Yeah.

MATT: All right, you guys find yourselves to your
respective rooms.

SAM: (thickly) Be pleased.

MATT: You all have a full night's rest, back to
full hit points. You get half your maximum hit

dice back if you've spent any more than half of
them. Scanlan, you wake up, quite a pounding

headache in your head, but the rest of your body
has its feeling back as you come to

consciousness.

SAM: Maybe I can package it into smaller amounts
and sell it on the street to recoup some of the

money. Do we have an afternoon to kill?

TRAVIS: Are you talking to yourself?

SAM: Yes. Damn it, what did I do? I should have
insight checked him, or I could've dominated,

there are so many things I could have done to him
to find out! I flew too close to the sun.

(laughter)

SAM: (sighs) Next time. Next time I'll do things
differently. Next time I will find drugs. That's

the lesson to be taken from this, look harder.
Look harder. The Meat Man never gives up.

TALIESIN: I believe in you, Walter White. I
believe in you.

MATT: And another persona of Scanlan was born. All
righty, so what are your plans for the day? As you

stumble down into the main tavern area, you can
see Treev's barely conscious himself and a few

other patrons are waiting eagerly for their food
as a few of the various barkeep assistants are

bringing out breakfasts and meals. "You'll want
food on your way out, then?"

LAURA: Yes, please.

TALIESIN: And whatever you have for a hangover for
our friend who'll be down in, oh, never quite

possibly.

MATT: "Hair of the dog, it is."

TALIESIN: I think he may have had the whole dog.

TRAVIS: We thought we might be going to the
Crystal Chateau today. Anything to know about

heading that direction?

(cricket sounds)

TRAVIS: Crickets in this tavern.

MATT: "Ah, get rid of them. Well, other than the
fact that they're a bunch of stuffy folk and

"generally not really considered classic
traditional Ank'harel, I mean good luck getting a

"right answer out of anyone."

TRAVIS: They snobs? Or are they like shifty?

MATT: "Snobs of the highest order! At least from
what I've seen. Allegiance of All-Sight and all that."

TALIESIN: I love snobs. I'm excited.

LAURA: Any word back from Mistress Asharru?

MATT: "Nope. No word. Who knows how long it'll
take. She might not even like it. You may never

"hear back from her. In which case, if you wait
long enough, I can see if I can hire someone else

"for you."

LAURA: Yeah, thank you.

TALIESIN: We have business, we can see to it.
Let's take everything that we need. We have

several objects, if I recall.

TRAVIS: Yep, shall we?

LAURA: Scarf down the breakfast!

MATT: You get your food in your system.

TALIESIN: We're going to actually need a Scanlan.

LAURA: How you doing, Scan?

SAM: I wander down, (sighs) good morning all! I
hope you slept nicely. My jaw seems to work! Thank

you for not nursing me at all last night, I
would've done the same to you.

TALIESIN: (loudly) How are you feeling?

SAM: Aw, fuck you!

(laughter)

LIAM: Aw, I feel so bad. I walk up behind him and
I start doing like a scalp massage, around the

temples. You'll be all right, eat something,
okay.

SAM: All right. Something with meat, I need to use
this spice.

MARISHA: I make a little bit of my glissfoil
hangover tonic. Give it to him.

MATT: It helps. The next 15 minutes or so of you
finishing your breakfast, the headache fades for

the most part. The pounding subsides.

SAM: The innkeeper knew of the spice, correct? Can I
talk to the innkeeper really quick?

MATT: Sure, you walk up to Treev, who's right now
sitting there reading a book, has like a rather

thick pair of glasses that look rather hilarious
against the small dragonborn eyes, focus against

the really rough and tumble exterior.

SAM: Oy, Treev? That fusaka spice, how much does
it go for usually for a bag? Big bag, sack?

MATT: "How big a bag are you talking?"

SAM: Hog's head, right?

TALIESIN: Yeah, it's a hog's head.

MATT: "Hog's head bag. It depends on where you're
buying it. Ten gold?"

(groaning and laughter)

MATT: "But you could probably barter most down
from there, if you're getting it in bulk."

SAM: That hurts. I thought you people said it was
expensive?

MATT: "For spice, yeah! Mostly dealing with
coppers and silvers for mere poison food flavor."

SAM: What if it's really high quality fusaka?

MATT: "12? Fusaka's fusaka and you don't find many
folks that're asking for its flavor except for

"particular dishes, so I only keep maybe a small
flagon of it at any times. In fact, last night is

"the first time someone asked for it in about
three months."

LAURA: What does it normally look like?

MARISHA: No one even fucking wants it!

LAURA: I mean when you're using it in food.

MATT: "Well, it comes--" and he goes through like
a small spice rack on the side of the kitchen,

comes back out and pulls out a small glass
container. He uncorks the top and inside you can

see it's a very fine dark brown powder. He says,
"It comes in bits but you grind it down and then

"you sprinkle it over, cook it proper, usually with
slow roasts, and it's quite nice."

SAM: Thanks, Treev.

MATT: "No worries."

SAM: All right, I'm good.

LIAM: Enjoy that allspice.

SAM: Let's go on our journey.

TRAVIS: We buying more drugs today?

SAM: No, I think my kingpin days are over.

LIAM: That is sad to hear.

TRAVIS: Off to the Crystal Chateau, then?

TALIESIN: Off to the Crystal Chateau.

MATT: Who's leading the charge to the Crystal
Chateau?

MARISHA: We ask Treev first: where is the Crystal
Chateau?

MATT: He thinks for a second, "Ain't been around
those areas for a bit. Those'll be over in the

"Sigil District, and that's right down in the
southeastern side of Ank'harel. Look for the

"raised landmass where it's carved off at the top.
That's where most of all the bastards live and

"most of the training's done by the Allegiance
folk."

LIAM: The bastards live, you said?

TRAVIS: Yeah, they're snobby.

LAURA: Thank you.

MATT: "My pleasure."

TALIESIN: Be back in a bit.

TRAVIS: Meep-meep.

TALIESIN: I'll lead the charge.

MATT: All right. Make an investigation check.

TALIESIN: Oh, for the love of god.

LAURA: Are you finding anything, Percy?

TALIESIN: No. Six.

MATT: Six. What'd you roll?

TALIESIN: Two.

MATT: At least it's not a one. It takes you about
four hours of wandering the city to finally get

the proper directions to lead you towards the
Sigil District to the Crystal Chateau. As you

ascend through these streets, the red cobblestone
that you've seen through most of the streets of

Ank'harel gives way to this slightly opalescent
surface where the light itself almost dances

across the surface of the stones. It shifts in the
outskirts of where the large hillside comes to an

end, and the buildings here give way to an open
space where you see a large, open square, but in

the center of the square, there are ropes around
some sort of large hole in the ground, probably a

good 150 feet across. It is a circular chasm off
to the eastern side of this large open square.

There are maybe a half dozen individuals standing
around the lip of it. A few of them are armed and

armored, and a few of them seem to be dressed in
long, relatively nice robes and light clothing.

You see a number of longhouses with high steepled
roofs with a yellowish-tan tint to them. These

buildings are very nice. They look constructed in
a type of architecture that's more reminiscent of

Tal'Dorei or other civilizations than you've seen
most of Ank'Harel's construction, so you figure

these buildings are probably newer or at least
this district seems to have a little different

cultural flavor to it than the rest of the city.
To the southern side of it you do see a large

multi-tiered structure that is made of a smoky
quartz mixed with white marble in places. This,

with an immediate glance, you'd probably gather is
the Crystal Chateau.

TALIESIN: Does the opalescent stone have any
similarity to the stones of Whitestone?

MATT: Make an investigation check.

MARISHA: Don't use the opalite dice. Opalite hates
us.

TALIESIN: There we go. 23.

MATT: You take a moment, glance down closely, and
look at it. It looks like the cobblestones of this

particular district, and it's only really towards
the top of this hill, where all the rest of these

buildings are constructed, has a very faint
trace of ground-in whitestone particles that had

been part of the construct of these floors. A
large portion of whitestone, over time, has been

exported to this location for the construction of
the top of this hill.

TALIESIN: Good to know.

LAURA: Can I wander over to the big hole in the
ground and ask one of the guards: Oi! What's in there?

MATT: As soon as you walk up, two of the guards
give you a keen look and put their hands on the

sides of their sheathed weapons.

LAURA: No worries. I'm from out of town. I just
was very curious.

MATT: They look at each other and some of the
more-- for lack of a better term, more academic

looking individuals-- shy away from this seemingly
growing possible confrontation, from their

perspective. They begin to pull back and walk down
this slightly descending, spiral-like path, that's

about ten feet off the inside of this carving into
the floor. They begin to descend down into it. One

of the guards says, "This is where the Allegiance
is currently excavating."

LAURA: Oh. And the Allegiance is the people who
live here? No?

MATT: "The Allegiance runs all of the schools
here."

LAURA: Of course, yes, the schools for magic.

MATT: "You are not from here?"

LAURA: I am not, at all.

MATT: "Well, please be on your way."

LAURA: Right. Thank you for all of your helpfuw
information. Helpfuw? Helpful.

MATT: As you walk and turn away, they keep a close
eye as you step back into the open area of the square.

LAURA: There's a big hole in the ground.

TALIESIN: I was noticing. That's odd.

LAURA: They're esc-excavating something. I don't know
what's happening to my brain!

TALIESIN: Had a little bit of spice, have we?

MARISHA: Does it look like a similar excavation
site to the ziggurat in Whitestone?

MATT: The ziggurat is a subterranean chamber that
was found through a long series of tunnels that

were carved beneath a long swath of land,
underneath Whitestone Castle, to the actual city

of Whitestone. This appears to be just a large,
strip mine-like cylinder that descends deep into

the earth. You haven't been able to get close
enough to look down toward the bottom of it.

TALIESIN: How wide again, approximately?

MATT: About 150 feet across. You're estimating
from this distance.

TALIESIN: And it looks excavated, and not just
like something opened up and then they kept

digging?

MATT: Correct. You can see there is actually a
pattern to the carving of the earth. It looks like

it's been carved in, layer after layer after
layer, much like a small-scale strip mine.

TALIESIN: Do the stones look like they broke the
ground, or does it look like the stones were

actually built around this? Has this been here
since the construction of this area? Or does it

seem like perhaps in the last 20 years or such,
they've just gone down?

MATT: Make an investigation check.

TALIESIN: No. It's a hole!

MATT: Yeah. It's hard to tell. For all your
training in Whitestone, you haven't really been

too keen on reading about the various details and
specifications behind paving roads.

MARISHA: Percy?

TALIESIN: Yes?

MARISHA: Is there whitestone located outside of
Whitestone?

TALIESIN: Not really, that I'm aware of. It rests
beneath the tree, in the hills, in the mines to

the north, and that's pretty much it that I'm
aware of.

LIAM: And you would know about any dealings that
Whitestone would have?

TALIESIN: Well, I would if I had paid attention to
such things, but it wasn't something that I was--

I was very young the last time I was there. I
don't really know where anything went, but I can

assume that this came from Whitestone.

TRAVIS: I bet they got this from Whitestone!

LIAM: That's a bit of a stretch, Grog.

TALIESIN: This is interesting. How did you come to
that conclusion?

TRAVIS: I don't know, I just felt a little brain
snap and then things danced between my ears and

then it hit my mouth.

TALIESIN: You should write that down.

MARISHA: I Druidcraft a little gold star for him
out of bark, and I say: Here you go, Grog! Good

job! You have a gold star for the day!

TRAVIS: What do I do with this?

MARISHA: Just stick it right on your forehead!

LIAM: Or eat it.

MATT: You hear a crunching between his pearly
white, larger-than-average goliath teeth.

TALIESIN: This is good news, if it is whitestone.
It means that we at least have some leverage here.

Let's find a big door, the biggest door we can
find, and attack it!

MATT: That's always worked out well for you guys
in the past. You make your way south of the square

to the Crystal Chateau. There is a large white
iron gate that surrounds the premises.

And from where the cobblestone 
ends beyond that gate

it is a fairly beautiful, well-kept, fenced-off
garden, where you see some trees popping up, green

grass. Looks to be a small stream that runs
through, there's a bridge off the main path that leads to

the chateau that goes over it. The water seems to butt
up against the chateau and vanish beneath it, to

continue within the actual structure.

As you head to the front gate you see the door
there, and there are two small handles on the

outside. You go to pull and it doesn't open.

TALIESIN: I knock.

MATT: It's that iron-like vibration of a heavy
gate. You wait a few moments, and in the distance,

you see the large two doors to the chateau, one peeks
open slightly and a little head peeks through.

TALIESIN: Hello.

MATT: It's about, maybe, 50 feet from you at this
distance, and he disappears back behind the door.

LAURA: Scanlan, hold up that necklace.

SAM: Yes, sorry. Distracted. Here.

TALIESIN: We're here on official business. Matters
of trade and of research.

MATT: The door still remains ajar, but the figure
has pulled back in. Are you shouting this at a

distance?

TALIESIN: Yes, I am. It will be very worth your
while, and someone will definitely wish to speak

with us. We've traveled from Tal'Dorei.

SAM: Can we just walk up to the door?

MATT: The head peeks out again and you get a
better look at it this time. It's short, oval to

the side almost? The head has this very wide,
short, stocky, very pointed nose and a very

pointed chin. No facial hair, however. Bald on top
and what you see as a bit of grey hair that's

frizzed on the sides. As it steps outside, you see
its stature is similar to Scanlan's. This appears

to be a gnomish individual. Pale skin, paler than
most of you and definitely most people you've seen

here in Ank'Harel and as it steps out, it has
white robes with gray streaks across the front and

back that fall into this cape in the back and with
its arms placed within its robes. Its small

footfalls comes across the path, over the bridge,
up to the front of the gate and is now facing you

guys on the other side of the gate. Up close, it
is a very old gnome. Those of you who have known

gnome longevity, that's many years. Strangely
adorable, the eyes are tiny and beady, the

eyebrows are furrowed. There's a slight smile and
this elderly sweetness to him as he approaches

with his arms in his robe.

LIAM: Hello there, grandfather.

MATT: "Yes?"

LIAM: We are looking for a bit of help. We've been
told that your knowledge is great and we have some

items that defy description.

LAURA: Are you Headmaster James Kryon?

MATT: "No, I am not. I am Grymond Trog."

LIAM: One more time, grandfather.

MATT: "Grymond Trog."

LIAM: Grymond Trog. It's a pleasure to meet you.

MATT: "You, as well, and well met, whoever you
are."

LAURA: Be pleased.

MATT: "You don't have to do that here."

LAURA: Could we meet with Headmaster James Kryon?
We've been sent by someone very important. J'mon

Sa Ord.

TALIESIN: From across the continent.

SAM: I flash the thing again and say, in Gnomish:
He'll want to talk to us. We've come a great

distance to meet him.

MATT: And he responds in Gnomish to you, "Very
well. I will go and see if the Headmaster is

"available. I cannot promise anything, but I will
return." You guys see this exchange in Gnomish. It

sounds like (fast twittering).

LAURA: I've never heard you speak Gnomish before,
Scanlan.

TRAVIS: What'd you say?

SAM: (sighs) I said: Someone loan me 350 gold.

LAURA: 350 gold? Why 350 gold?

LIAM: That's a very specific number.

TALIESIN: That's a very interesting number.

MATT: The gnome spins around and darts back into
little footfalls, coasting a strange little

zig-zag back to the original doors and disappears.
The doors don't close; they remain ajar.

LIAM: He's way faster than you.

LAURA: Why don't you walk that fast, Scanlan?

SAM: I'm carrying two giant sacks of spice. It
weighs me down.

TRAVIS: Do you want to put those in the bag of
holding?

SAM: No! They're mine.

TRAVIS: Your cross to bear. Got it.

MATT: You wait about 15 minutes before the gnome,
Grymond, pops his head out once more. "Just a

"minute." Pops back in.

LIAM: I like that little guy.

TALIESIN: I know; he's quite pleasing.

MATT: Pops back out about ten minutes later. Darts
over to the edge. "My apologies for keeping you

"waiting. The headmaster is unable to see visitors
at the moment."

LAURA: Oh no. Why?

MATT: "Perhaps try next week."

LAURA: Oh no, that's such a long time. We have a
very short amount of time; we're on a crunch.

MARISHA: Yes, is there a standby list we can get
on?

MATT: "Is there something I can help you with?"

LIAM: We are sort of trying to save--

MARISHA: The world.

MATT: "That's very sweet."

LAURA: Can I insight check him?

MARISHA: Time is of the essence.

LAURA: 20.

MATT: 20?

SAM: Loot Crate, ladies and gentlemen. I'm wearing
one of the shirts right now. It came in this

month's Loot Box! Loot Crate, I think it's called,
actually, not a Loot Box.

LIAM: I hear it comes with a gram of spice in
every box.

SAM: Yeah, that alone makes it worth about $500.
Every box. In some circles. Oh boy, Travis is

looking!

(laughter)

LAURA: Look, we're in a bit of a rush. This is
very important business. The fate of the world

rests on your shoulders.

MATT: Persuasion check.

SAM: Persuasion check. She's the best at those!

LAURA: I'm not terrible at it. 20.

SAM: That's good.

MATT: His eyes blink. Sigh. "Just a moment." Turns
around and disappears back up the walkway to the

building. You wait another 30 minutes.

LAURA: Fucking little gnome on a power trip.

LIAM: Worth it.

SAM: What are we asking when we get in, by the
way?

MATT: You wait another ten minutes, and right as
your frustration is beginning to mount and you're

ready to start rattling that gate, you see a
figure, much taller, step out from the open door

to the front of the Crystal Chateau.

LIAM: Eyes up!

MATT: Much slower and deliberate walk. This taller
humanoid, as it approaches, you see the same

white robes with the same silver grey band
that goes over the shoulders, the mantle pointing

out past the shoulders, as it passes back into a
cloak that drifts behind. The train of the robe's

dragging just a few inches past the back. They
seem longer than should be for a normal traveling

person; they're almost ceremonial. As the humanoid
approaches, you can see silver, almost

purple-colored hair, that just falls back and trails
past, without a stray hair in place, long past the

shoulders, almost like a secondary cloak and flows
with each step, just like the cloak does. The face

is pure elven, skin pale white, the eyes white
with a very faint gold iris. No pupil. Seems

young, though the graying hair does lead you to
believe that there is some age to this elven

individual. Approaches, hands together in front.
Eventually comes to the edge of the gate. "My

"apologies for the delay. Apparently, you have both
the assistance of the soul of the jeweled city at

"your disposal, and you've convinced my clerk that
you have important business. Well, you have ten

"minutes of my time. What can I do for you?"

TALIESIN: May we speak in private for that ten
minutes? It is sensitive.

MATT: "Very well." He snaps his fingers and utters
this incantation under his mouth. Suddenly you

have this crackling blue wall appear above you,
and you all are encased inside this cube-like box,

it's about 25 by 25 feet, you hear this slight
vibration crackling around you.

LAURA: Is the fence still between us?

MATT: The fence is still between us, but it's
enclosed. It closed all of you into this box,

including himself. And all the breeze that was
blowing through has been halted. You hear none of

the surrounding sounds of the city around you.
This appears to be a fairly private place.

(laughs) For at least the time he's willing to
give you.

TALIESIN: Do you know of the news of Tal'Dorei and
Emon?

MATT: "I don't really pay attention to matters
that far from where we are. I have important

"things to tend to."

TALIESIN: Foreign affairs, obviously. But I can
see that there are aspects of this place that are

foreign, that you have brought culture here. And I
pull out one of my guns, pull it out to show him

the hiltwork, which is all embedded with actual
whitestone. I cannot speak the name of where we

come from, but I know how this place was built,
and I know that perhaps we have a connection

because of it. And I'm going to--

SAM: Shoot him in the head.

(laughter)

TALIESIN: Dragons-- There's no secret to it.
Dragons are ravaging the continent. A chromatic

conclave of dragons, unlike we've ever seen
before, have decimated the cultures of the other

end of the earth. Dragons we have never seen
before, but you have. And I'm going to Minor

Illusion in my hand an image of the red dragon
with the ruby in his chest sitting atop. I'm

creating a little visual of it.

MATT: It's rudimentary.

TALIESIN: It's rudimentary, but it's there. It's
obviously an illusion; it's not meant to look

real. It's fuzzy.

MATT: It's a Princess Leia, froze, coming out of
R2D2 in A Lost Hope. Takes a look at it, seemingly

unmoved, and goes, "And?"

TALIESIN: They will come here. They will come here
and they will ravage. We've been given the

opportunity and the hope of stopping them before
they reach your shores.

LIAM: We have ended two of them, and we want to
end them all before they come anywhere near these

shores.

MATT: "That sounds like an absolutely remarkable
endeavor and I wish you the best of luck."

TALIESIN: If we could just have a bit of help,
identifying a few objects of magical power, and

hopefully finding a few more keys to stopping them,
it would ingratiate us to you so much that I would

be delighted to speak of a future of hopefully
making sure that more of this beautiful whitestone

that you use everywhere in this beautiful palace
is available and deeply indebted.

MATT: As you do say whitestone, his eyes for the
first time do lock into yours.

MARISHA: (whispering) Tell him who you are,
Percy!

TALIESIN: I cannot tell him who I am.

MATT: "Well. You now have six more minutes of my
time. If you are here for simple identification

"purposes, I can aid you in this. What would you
like me to see for you?"

TALIESIN: They are not simple. We are not starting
with the jug.

LIAM: Step up, Grog. Show him the gloves.

TRAVIS: Oh, yes. I got these Titanstone Knuckles
off my uncle. They make me bigger and stronger,

but I'm not sure what else they do.

MATT: He leans forward and places his hands
through the gate openings on the sides of where the

various bars are and touches them, and his eyes
flare with a flash of sudden arcane energy. His

hands just tense for a moment, and he lets go.
"Indeed they are. A Vestige! I have not seen one in

"person. Congratulations. That is a very worthy
find. There are museums and collectors that would

"pay quite a penny for such an item."

TRAVIS: No, I'm not interested in selling it.

MARISHA: But you have heard of these Vestiges
before?

MATT: "I have come across them in my research,
yes."

LIAM: We have three of them.

MARISHA: Have you heard of one called Cabal's
Ruin?

MATT: "I've heard of it."

MARISHA: It's a cloak.

MATT: "A cloak? Yes. Yes, I have come across it in
my papers before, but that was quite some time ago

"and that's the extent of my knowledge, I fear.
Sorry."

TALIESIN: Show him your bow.

LAURA: Our second Vestige.

MATT: Leans forward, this time with one hand and
touches the edge of it. As he touches the edge, it

curls against the tip of his finger and he pulls
back, a little bit creeped out by it.

LAURA: Fenthras.

MATT: "Fenthras." And his eyes flash again. The
bow seems to stop moving for a second and then

relax back into its slow, organic movement. "This
is also quite a find. A powerful weapon. Fey in

"nature. It seems to extend sight and grow that
which it slays." He gives you information on each

of these Vestiges as part of his Identify spell, and there is no
additional information beyond what you already know 
about the item.

LIAM: I misspoke. We have four. Scanlan, show him
your blade.

SAM: (French accent) Mythcarver!

MATT: (French accent) "Mythcarver?"

SAM: Is how some would say it.

MATT: He takes it. His eyes flash again as he
glances over the blade. "One of the non

"divine-based Vestiges. Here you are. Much like
those knuckles."

TRAVIS: Non-divine?

MATT: "Some were created in the sphere of some
deity's influence. Some were created by powerful

"practitioners of the arcane. Remember, the
Calamity, the battle that sparked the Divergence

"itself, was a battle against the gods, against
wayward arcane magics, and the division between

"the societal belief in both."

LAURA: Did anyone in the Allegiance create these
items?

MATT: "No, the Allegiance has only been around for
about 80, 90 years. But some of us have come

"across information about these, as scattered as
they are."

TALIESIN: We have the tea set, as well? Do we have
anything else?

SAM: Can you tell me anything more about the
blade?

MATT: "It resonates with sound and speech and
song." He gives you basically the information you

have about the Mythcarver.

LIAM: Probably overkill, but I draw back the white
that I'm wearing. What of this armor? Can you tell

me anything about it?

MATT: He reaches forward and touches the armor.
Eyes flash again. He gives you a full, detailed

description of the armor you're holding. He says,
"This has been awakened. Interesting, yes. It's

"rare that artifacts have an awakening.
Interesting."

LIAM: Is that something that any of these would
do?

MATT: "I do not know. This is my first time
actually handling any Vestiges. For the record,

"you carrying this many puts quite a target on your
back from anyone who's interested in selling them

"or making them their own. I would recommend not
telling anyone what you have in your possession."

TALIESIN: You are the only one that we've told.

MATT: "Good, keep it that way."

TALIESIN: Just a few more things.

LAURA: I pull out the tea set that has LM engraved
on it, that we got in--

MATT: "Unfortunately, you've expended most of my
identification this day."

TALIESIN: Less of a magical investigation, then. I
pull out a piece of the green elemental shard from

Whitestone and show it to him.

MATT: "Might I have a look at that?" He takes it,
reaches into his robes, pulls out a very

well-crafted glass jeweler's piece, glances over
it for a second. He clicks a small button on the

side of it. Each time he does, you see the lens
change color on the end of it. "I have not seen

"anything like this. Not of condensed, purified
whitestone."

TALIESIN: Yes. I take it back.

MATT: As you take it, he gives a little
resistance, "The possibilities of such a substance

"is intriguing."

MARISHA: Can I do an insight check on him?

MATT: Go for it.

MARISHA: 19.

MATT: Okay.

LAURA: Can we ask him how he got his purple hair?
Because I want some purple hair.

TRAVIS: Make sure to visit the Geek and Sundry
store for all of our new merch items!

LIAM: Espionage nail wraps!

TRAVIS: We've got these new bitching bracelets!

SAM: But these have Critical Role themes to them!

LAURA: Look, Sam, we have a Critical Role mug!

SAM: No way, that's really available? I want one!
How much are they? $50, $100? Just $20?

TALIESIN: Think of all the spice you could get!

MATT: "Should you have any more that you do not
require, I am sure I could convince the Allegiance

"to pay quite a hefty sum."

TALIESIN: Money doesn't interest us at this point.
We are under siege. But cooperation and help in

our endeavor certainly does. The process is known
to my people and a closely guarded secret,

obviously. We would be happy to restore normal
relations once we are no longer in danger. Excited

for normal relations, and proper trade. We are a
city in need.

MATT: "If I may have your name, then, sir?"

TALIESIN: I do not give him my name, but I put
together a quick piece of paper with the royal seal.

MATT: Okay. He takes it.

TALIESIN: It's enough that you need not have any
paper proof of who I am, other than the fact that

if this place was built, then that should be very
useful to you. If this place was built the way we

expect. If we survive, and especially with your
cooperation and help, we will be back to this

city, and we will be grateful.

MARISHA: We can always come back with more of this
condensed whitestone in tow.

TALIESIN: It's very expensive and very rare,
sadly.

MATT: "I look forward to your return once this
wyrm intrusion is completed, and we can discuss

"business."

TALIESIN: Worm intrusion? Oh, the wyrm. I thought
you were talking about the hole out front. Is that

anything we can help with? We're quite adept.

MATT: "No, we're good, but thank you."

LIAM: I hate to wear out our welcome, but you said
you were spent. Is it possible your friend who

scuttled off could have a look at my sister's tea
set?

LAURA: Oh, really, they are so smart and
magical--

MATT: "You are asking us to spend this last minute
of time that I've promised to you to retrieve my

"clerk to see what your tea set does?"

LIAM: I was asking that, yes.

MATT: "Very well."

TRAVIS: Well, I have a question. Would you ever
engage in matters outside of this stupid-ass place?

MATT: "Referring to what?"

TRAVIS: You know, other countries, people in
danger, dragons. You seem to be a powerful

magician of some sort. Would you ever help?

MATT: "I do not, nor does the Allegiance, get
involved in political matters. We are simply a

"collection of scholars and we attempt to keep it
that."

LAURA: In your scholarly knowledge, do you know
how to kill a red dragon?

TALIESIN: With no heart?

MATT: "I would say that is probably a bit beyond
my capability. But if, indeed, that little bauble

"that your tiny friend carries is to believe true, I
think you've already found favors and allies far

"beyond anything we could provide."

TALIESIN: We need everything we can get, and we
are down several libraries on our continent. They

do enjoy watching the knowledge of the ages burn.

MATT: "Well, perhaps you should get on seeing them
felled fairly soon, then."

MARISHA: Hopefully, take this as the fair warning
that it was meant to be.

MATT: "The city has seen quite a few aggressors,
and not one has made it farther than the outside walls."

MARISHA: So I have heard.

LAURA: But this isn't one. This is several.

TALIESIN: And that is why they have given us their
favors, because they understand that this threat

is greater.

MATT: "And yet you have already felled a few
yourselves. I am certain you will be

"successful in the rest of your endeavor."

MARISHA: One last note. You mentioned Cabal's
Ruin? Have you heard of the Den of Druja?

MATT: "Druja? Yes, that was naught but 60 years
ago. There was a bit of an incursion, an uprising,

"of a guild that was getting a bit big for its
britches and was muscling its way through most of

"the Suncut Bazaar. Some sort of a conflict arose,
and the streets were lined with bodies at certain

"moments. However, it seems that they were dealt
with rather quickly, succinctly. One of our

"wayward mages that had apparently been helping
helm this endeavor was brought to justice with a

"blade to his throat."

MARISHA: Really? What was the name of this
sorcerer? Magician? Mage?

MATT: "I mean no disrespect to you, but it is a
place of particular sourness and shame within the

"Allegiance, and we wish to move on from it."

MARISHA: Sure. But isn't knowledge like this best
known so that history does not repeat itself?

MATT: "We know it well, and it will not be
repeated. I do not know you, yet you ask us

"questions deep within our history that we do not
wish to discuss for our own reasons."

TRAVIS: Lot of answers we got here. Lot of
answers.

SAM: Maybe we just asked the wrong questions.

TRAVIS: Maybe I should just ask him to identify
this.

TALIESIN: I think you've already burned the charge
on that one for the day.

MATT: As you put your finger up, he puts up three
fingers. "And that is your ten minutes. Thank you

"so much for your time. Please, do make sure the
Allegiance knows once you've completed your

"journey up in wherever these dragons are and
return. I think there are many things we could

"discuss, to the benefit of both you and us. Now, I
have things to attend to. I wish you good day."

TALIESIN: Good day to you, sir.

LAURA: You ruined your business deal. Have fun.

TRAVIS: He counted ten like this! I thought they
were learned.

MATT: And with that, he exits back and the door
closes shut.

LAURA: That guy was a dick.

TALIESIN: Yes, he was, but we did learn some
things.

SAM: To be fair, we were asking him favors for no
benefit.

LAURA: This is true, but he was a snob.

TALIESIN: There was plenty of benefit to him.

MARISHA: We don't do well with snobbery.

SAM: Do you want me to burn down his house?

TRAVIS: Triceratops! Triceratops! All right, easy,
killer, easy.

MARISHA: All right, so, we know a little bit
more.

SAM: Nothing.

LAURA: No, a little bit more. We need to find out
who this mage was.

MARISHA: The Den of Druja was a guild. 60 years
ago, though. That's quite a long time.

SAM: We need to reach out to this woman, right?

LAURA: Maybe she's really old.

SAM: We do know where she lives.

TALIESIN: You could go and check, and we could
hang back.

SAM: I have contacts in the underworld here.

LAURA: They respect you.

TRAVIS: The name of the Meat Man goes a long way.

MARISHA: What time is it right now?

MATT: This time, the four hours lost since waking,
you're probably pushing 2:00 in the afternoon.

SAM: Should we go pay a visit to what's-her-butt?
What's our play here? We need her?

LAURA: We need Cabal's Ruin. But we don't want to
cause too much of a ruckus, because I don't want

to put ourselves at odds with J'mon Sa Ord.

MARISHA: Maybe we should find out more about this
Den of Druja. It sounds like there was quite a

civil war that happened back in the day.

SAM: Did we make a mistake here? Should we have
said something else? But what information could

this person have given us?

LAURA: Access to a library?

TRAVIS: If we had more of that stuff from Percy's
place, he'd be more willing to share.

SAM: Percy, can you give him that piece?

TALIESIN: I don't trust him with it.

TRAVIS: I can't imagine why.

MARISHA: He was definitely very interested in it.

SAM: We could sneak in.

TALIESIN: No. How?

SAM: We could just go down the hole. See what's
there. Kiki and I could be dragonflies and just

buzz on down.

TRAVIS: That's true, you're little drones!

LAURA: This is an entire area of mages! You don't
think they'll notice when you use Polymorph?

MARISHA: Well, mine's beast shape. Mine's natural.
I'm au naturel.

MATT: Magical effect, just so you know.

TALIESIN: It's just organic.

MARISHA: It's organically natural.

MATT: Free-range magic.

SAM: So our options are go down the hole, get
caught; go find the girl with the cloak--

MARISHA: Get caught.

SAM: Or all bum rush my friends at the casino, and
get revenge. Maybe they know something more

about things!

TALIESIN: It's just 50 gold. I don't see why
you're getting so uptight about it.

SAM: It was my lucky gold piece that I got.

TALIESIN: Why would you spend your lucky gold
piece?

SAM: It was buried in with the rest. I didn't
notice it.

TALIESIN: Well, maybe if you just ask them to give
it back--

LIAM: You are really uptight about this!

SAM: I need a nap, that's all. I need a nap.

TRAVIS: How about we go up to the woman, then, if
the hole sounds like a bad idea?

LAURA: Yeah, let's make our way over that way.

TRAVIS: Come on, sneaky sneaker.

LIAM: Well, I can take us there. Do we want to be
genuine and knock on the door? I can't think that

it's going to be useful to go sneaking in.

LAURA: Maybe she's taken the cloak off and we can
take it.

SAM: You know, there's also one other. We've
heard that there's shady people at the-- Wait,

have we been to the Debt's Respite?

LAURA: That's where we're staying.

MARISHA: That's our hotel, Scanlan.

TRAVIS: He drank a bit last night.

LAURA: Scanlan, do you need to go find a house of
lady favors?

MARISHA: The Hilton by the airport, not downtown.

LIAM: We got a full night's sleep, right?

MATT: Yeah, you did.

TRAVIS: Vax, do you feel like we should be
door-knockers instead of sneakers?

LIAM: I feel like door-knocker.

SAM: Let's knock on Mistress Asharru's door.

MARISHA: Hang on, we're just going to go knock and
say what?

LAURA: "Hey can we have your Vestige that's super
valuable?"

SAM: Maybe we could trade her one!

LIAM: What's your idea?

LAURA: I have no idea. Maybe wait until she comes
to find us?

SAM: We could do some recon on her place.

LAURA: Yeah, let's do that.

TALIESIN: Let's take a look.

MATT: Okay. You guys all heading there?

LIAM: I don't think we should do that. So that
Grog doesn't knock over a whole cart.

TALIESIN: We are going to definitely hang about a
block back.

LIAM: I think you and I should go.

LAURA: Me?

LIAM: Yeah. We're good at it.

SAM: I could go up to the front door and pretend
to be a FedEx delivery guy or something.

LIAM: I pick up Scanlan like a football and walk
off with my sister.

MATT: All right. So the three of you guys make
your way, remembering the path that you very

carefully marked in your memory, to where you
followed the messenger through the other day.

You guys follow Vax back to the outside of the
Debt's Respite and trace the path in which he

followed that silent messenger that Treev had sent
off when you first made your request of the

mistress. Heading through alleyways, diving over
from upper to lower levels through long hallways,

beneath buildings, to small side roads, until
eventually you find your way into this small area

that's nestled in between two large warehouses.
There appears to be some crates. There's some

barrels around this small building that reads, on
the sign above the door, A Kingly Home. The door

is closed. There appears to be a window right next
to the door. There is the series of barrels, and

there's the one barrel you saw where the
individual moved it and placed the actual request

that you guys made through a small slot in the
wall.

LAURA: Are there any other people around?

MATT: You can see-- actually, everyone roll a
stealth check, who's coming through. Yeah, you

guys are behind, so the three of you guys.

SAM: 14.

LIAM: 25.

TRAVIS: 14.

MATT: Not you, Grog. You're not going.

LAURA: 16.

MATT: Okay. You guys make your way through the
hallway. As you turn the corner, there is one

person turning around the corner the opposite
direction, who's carrying a bundle of various

large, nut-like fruits. He turns and bumps into
you and almost drops it and catches it, "Be more

"careful," then just continues walking past. You
guys look into the main area where the home is,

and it's right there before you. Other than that
person who just passed by, it's pretty quiet here.

This part of the city doesn't see a lot of foot
traffic, which is probably why it makes for a nice

home for an individual that does shady work.

LIAM: And nobody's hiding?

MATT: You can make a perception check.

LIAM: 27.

SAM: Nothing.

LAURA: 32.

MATT: You guys take the next few minutes quietly
off in the shadows, looking about the upper and

lower regions of this small alcove where the house
is. About four or five minutes into that, you're

pretty certain that nobody here is hidden and you
are alone other than the home, at least for the

time being.

SAM: Should I just go knock on the front door?

LIAM: That was my suggestion, but I thought we
came here to watch for a bit. I say to Scanlan,

sitting on my shoulders.

LAURA: Should we go peek in the window, maybe?
Maybe you, since you're sneaky? Oh yeah, or that.

Scanlan, you can turn into a bug or something.

SAM: Whatever you want.

LAURA: Ooh, I can use-- wait, does this have to
be--

LIAM: I think bug.

SAM: Bug? You want bug?

LAURA: This doesn't have to be attuned. I have,
from a long fucking time ago, the cloak of the

scuttling rat.

SAM: I don't even know what that is.

MATT: Does it require attunement?

LAURA: It doesn't say.

MATT: Do you have a cloak attuned to you right
now?

LAURA: No, I don't have a cloak attuned to me
because--

MATT: That's correct, you do not. So yeah, you
could put that on if you want.

LIAM: This says five minutes of rat form. Scanlan
can go all night long.

SAM: You know why they call her Vex the Rat?

LIAM: Do you know why they call her that?

SAM: Do you want me to do a bug? Be a bug? All
right, I'll be a beautiful dragonfly.

MATT: (buzzing) Scanlan becomes this dragonfly
with gorgeous, rainbow-like color and a tiny

little beret. What do you want to do, Scanlan?

SAM: Look for any openings in the windows or
vents--

MATT: You (tink) against the glass. The window is
closed.

LAURA: Is there a fireplace?

MATT: The door is actually pretty flush with the
ground.

SAM: Chimneys? Air intakes?

MATT: You glance over the top of the roof. There
actually is no chimney.

SAM: Right, so then I'll just hang out by a window
for a little bit and look.

LAURA: What about the little thing where the note
got slipped in?

SAM: I don't know anything about that.

MATT: You guys watch the dragonfly (tink)

SAM: Do I see anyone in any of the windows?

MATT: It's dark inside. The drapes are drawn
except for a little bit of a sliver where the

light would get through. You see a little peek of
a wooden floor, but there's no light from the

inside.

SAM: Okay. Just going to go all the way around the
house, high and low, looking for a way in. Do I

find it?

MATT: Make an investigation check.

SAM: A lot. 24.

MATT: 24. After coming around, you begin to slink
around by the barrels and you can see, in the

stonework that has been built, the masonry that
forms the exterior of the building, there appears

to be a very small hole, about cork-size, hidden
behind one of the barrels in the front. There's

just enough space between the wall where you can
barely squeeze in and poke through. It's big

enough where your wings will hit, so you have to
attach to it and crawl through before coming out

the other side. As you come out the other side,
you're now inside the house. Dark interior. Make a

perception check.

SAM: One.

MATT: You're inside the building, but it is very
dark. All you see is the one little beam of light

coming through the window that is facing where the
sun currently is in the sky and is creating the

one beam on the ground and the little bit of wood
that's there. That's as much as you can make out

at the moment.

SAM: I will fly around and see if I knock into
anything.

MATT: You knock into a shelf unit. (buzzing) You
knock into another shelf unit. (buzzing) You stop

on the top of a chair that's off in a far corner.
Go over it. You glance over and a little bit of

light is bouncing off the sunbeam. You can see,
beneath the opening where you came in, the

rolled-up scroll, that was placed inside the small
case that held your guys' message, is still

resting right beneath the opening, untouched.

MARISHA: Wow, they haven't even opened it?
Assholes.

LAURA: Maybe she hasn't been home.

SAM: Am I in a room that's closed off? Can I keep
going through the house?

MATT: Yeah, you can keep going through the house.
There's a big part of the house you haven't

explored yet.

SAM: All right, I'll see if I can make my way.

MATT: Make another perception check.

SAM: Five.

MATT: All right. It's fairly dark in here. Let me
check one thing in the monster manual. I'm just

going to see if there's some possibility--

SAM: I doubt dragonflies are even in the monster
manual.

MATT: No, but I'm looking for--

TRAVIS: The thing that's about to eat you.

SAM: Look for dragon perception.

TALIESIN: A dire dragonfly.

MATT: Honestly, thinking about it here, you
probably might have blindsight from a lot of

different insects.

TALIESIN: They've got the big prismatic hoo-ha.

MATT: I'm not an expert on insect biology. As you
putter around to the opposite side of the room,

you can see there is a small table. There is a
very simple bed on the side. There is a carpet

that has been pulled and half-folded over. There
is an opening on the floor on the opposite corner,

a staircase that descends below, and a trapdoor
that is left open.

SAM: Ooh! I go outside immediately.

MATT: All right. You find the opening, pull
through, and then come through on the opposite side.

SAM: I bamf out. There's a trapdoor. We've got to
go down the trapdoor. No one's in the house! We

can just go in, snickety-snack! Let's go in, go
down the trapdoor, see what it is.

LIAM: There are three of us running in after--

SAM: No, we don't need them. Let's just go.
They'll make noise! You, me, and you, we're the

stealthy ones.

LIAM: That is true, but we don't know what is in
here.

SAM: Yeah, you're right. We should totally tell
the others.

TALIESIN: Hello, everyone. What's going on? Are
things going on? Hello?

LIAM: Scanlan is still grappling with some sort of
depression.

SAM: I've got a bipolar thing going on,
manic-depressive episode.

TALIESIN: I don't know what any of that means.

MARISHA: Is it the spice? Are you having a rough
morning from the spice?

SAM: Anyway. There's a trapdoor. We should go down
it.

TRAVIS: Trapdoor?

LAURA: Did you see any sign of life inside the
house?

SAM: Yeah, I did. I saw the sign that someone had
opened a trapdoor and gone down it.

TALIESIN: They could be hurt.

MARISHA: They could just have a basement.

LAURA: We could be breaking into somebody's home
for nothing.

LIAM: We either sit on our asses waiting for this
woman, or we go make shit happen.

LAURA: We're on a time crunch. Let's make shit
happen.

TALIESIN: An entire city may die if we take too
long.

LAURA: Can we look around? Is anyone around? Can
we pick this lock without anybody knowing?

LIAM: Give my sister and I a minute and then join
us. Oh, we left them way behind.

MARISHA: Do we have time to go get more slushy
beverages?

TRAVIS: No, Keyleth. No.

LIAM: You work on the lock. I'm going to go get
the rest. I'm going to head back.

MATT: So Vax, you head back. You get the rest of
the party. Vex?

LAURA: Do I see anyone around?

MATT: You actually see a couple folks walk by. You
take Scanlan and you guys step into the shadows.

You wait a minute for them to just pass by, and as
soon as they're out of earshot, you head back.

LAURA: Can I check for traps?

MATT: You may. Make an investigation check.

LAURA: Oh, well. That investigation was a 12,
there.

MATT: Doesn't appear to be trapped.

LAURA: Okay, I'm going to try to pick this lock,
Scanlan.

TRAVIS: Can we look around the streets?

LAURA: Yeah, I totally checked already. I'm going
to try and pick this lock. I'm going to try real

hard. What do I roll?

MATT: Oh, this would be a sleight of hand. Not
sleight of hand. No, this is a lock-pick tool, a

thieves' tools check. So you add your proficiency
bonus and your dexterity bonus.

LAURA: Add my proficiency bonus? I don't
understand.

LIAM: Thieves' tools.

LAURA: I have thieves' tools!

MATT: Your proficiency bonus is five, right? And
what's your dexterity bonus?

LAURA: Oh, my dexterity is another five.

MATT: So add ten to your d20 roll.

LAURA: I think that's a 14 that I rolled.

MATT: Okay, so plus ten, 24. Oh, four plus ten?
You put your lock pick inside. As simple as it

looks from the outside, it's a very intricate
lock. You spend about five minutes with it. You're

not getting any of the tumblers.

LAURA: Just go inside, unlock it from the inside.
But don't tell my brother I couldn't unlock this,

okay?

SAM: Wait, first I'm going to try to pick the
lock.

LAURA: Do you have thieves' tools? Then go fuck
yourself. You can't.

MATT: Just roll a d20 and add your dexterity
modifier.

SAM: Four. All right, I'll just go in there.

MATT: He pulls out a couple of barely unfurled
pieces of wire, puts them in there for a second,

and they both break inside of it.

SAM: All right, I will Dimension Door inside.

MATT: Okay, you're now inside. As you go back
to the door, you can see there is a heavy latch

and some sort of a padlock on it.

SAM: Goddamn it. On the inside?

LIAM: Have I gotten back to the rest?

MATT: You have gotten back pretty quick, full
speed. You guys, over the next two minutes or so,

the rest of the party gets there. You can go ahead
and make another shot. The DC is going to

increase, though.

LAURA: I try it again. Natural 20!

MATT: Very difficult because it is not only a
difficult lock, with the interior padlock, but

Scanlan broke off pieces of wire in it that are in
danger of permanently breaking the lock and making

it unusable. You, however, thankfully manage to
maneuver the tools to remove the pieces of wayward

wire, finish the lock, and as soon as you finish
unlocking the padlock on the inside with a curved

piece, the door opens, and there's a slight flash.
Nothing.

LAURA: Oh no. It's an alarm. We need to get the
fuck out of here.

MATT: No noise. Make a perception check.

MARISHA: Did we forget to check for traps again?

LAURA: No, I did. I checked! 16?

MATT: 16? Ah, as Scanlan from the inside and you
on the outside, you take a quick glance inside,

just scanning around. You can see bed on the far
side, the trapdoor that's open, the stairs that

lead down. What catches your eye is right around
the outside of the entrance to the basement, you

see these dark spots across the ground that
generally fade as they reach the door that you're

at. These are familiar spots. These are tiny
little spatters of viscera, blood. Dried.

LAURA: (gasps) Leading from the door to the
trapdoor?

MATT: Leading from the trapdoor to the door,
dissipating as it comes to your door.

MARISHA: Wait, and it's dried?

MATT: It looks like it's been there for a while,
yeah.

LAURA: Oh shit. So the trap could've done
something to somebody before?

SAM: No, more blood toward the trapdoor and then
it fades, so someone came out of the trapdoor--

MARISHA: And tried to haul ass out.

TRAVIS: What was the flash?

SAM: An alarm.

LAURA: Do I see footprints around?

MATT: As you get close and look down, you can see,
in a couple of the dried blood smears, there

appear to be footprints in them that are heading
out.

SAM: I go over to the trapdoor and inspect it for
traps.

MATT: Make an investigation check.

SAM: It being a trapdoor, it should have a trap.
17.

MATT: The trapdoor is still open. It's left open
and the stairs that descend. There is no trap in

the vicinity. Looks like it's been untouched for a
while. You guys are just now starting to approach

the outside of the house. As you get there, you
see the door is partially ajar, and it is open,

and you can vaguely see movement on the inside of
Vex and Scanlan looking about.

LIAM: Nice job, ace. What's going on?

LAURA: There was a trap. I think there was a trap
on it and I didn't know. But I looked for traps!

There was a flash. Does that sound familiar?

TRAVIS: Is anyone new on the streets or on the
roofs above us?

MATT: Perception check.

MARISHA: Can I look down the road, because I'm
down a bit, see if anyone looks like they're

coming this way?

TRAVIS: 16.

TALIESIN: 26.

MARISHA: 18.

MATT: Okay. The three of you looking about. There
are some people in the distance that pass by three

alleys down, but there's nobody paying attention
to or immediately in the vicinity of this little

alcove. Nothing unusual.

LIAM: Scanlan's by the open trapdoor inside?

TALIESIN: I'm going to nonchalantly walk in, open
the door, and just we'll all come in and shut the

door behind us.

LAURA: Is there any blood on the inside of the
door?

MATT: If you look on the inside of the door, there
is actually a hand print in blood against the top

of it.

LAURA: Does it look like it was trying to open the
door? Does it look like it got the door open, or

it was stuck inside?

MATT: No, it looks like, as it wraps around the
top, it looks like somebody had lifted it up.

LAURA: Oh, the trapdoor.

TALIESIN: Is there blood on the handle? Is there
blood on the door itself?

MATT: Looking at the inside handle, there are very
faint traces of dried blood.

MARISHA: Can I do a check on the outside threshold
of the door to see if I can see the blood go

outward?

MATT: Sure, make an investigation check.

LAURA: I go and grab our note that we sent and
take it.

MATT: Okay, you put it away.

MARISHA: Nothing, no.

TALIESIN: I will check for that, too.

MATT: You guys are out in the open right now,
slowly inspecting the ground in the middle of this

alley.

TALIESIN: 11. I'm at the door looking out.

LIAM: I'm going down the trapdoor carefully.

MARISHA: Okay, we're all inside, right?

MATT: Yeah, you're all inside. Vax is vanishing
down the trapdoor.

TALIESIN: I'm doing a quick, gentle sweep of the
room, looking for any invisible bodies in the

corner. Just moving my hand around.

MATT: Okay. As you guys are scanning this, Vax,
you head down into the bottom. Beneath this small

hovel in this trapdoor, the stairs stop and to the
left of you there is another door that is

partially left open into another chamber that is
beneath.

LIAM: I want to look for traps on the door.

MATT: The door is open, but yeah.

LIAM: Okay, but there could still be. Okay,
investigation, right? 19.

MATT: Does not appear to be trapped.

LIAM: So I'm still stealthed? I'm going to gently
open the door and peer in.

MATT: You pull it open, look inside. This is a
larger chamber with a much better set of

furniture. It looks like the woman that you had
hired probably lived here more than above. You see

what would be weapons racks, but have been cleaned
out. You see a couple of lanterns that are placed

upon a table in the corner that have since burned
out. One of them has actually fallen over, and it

appears the glass is broken on the ground. Make a
perception check.

LIAM: 25.

MATT: Glancing across the room, you can see more
of the thicker blood spatters with other

footprints in them. Multiple footprints. You see a
body, still, on the other side of the room.

LAURA: Oh, somebody else got the Vestige.

MATT: You come up to the body, and it appears to
be a female form. You see black hair with white

streaks throughout. Ornate scale mail armor of
black and purple. As you pull her over, the face

appears to be in her mid to late forties. Her left
eye is ruined and sealed closed with a scar. There

is a very large pool of drying, coagulated blood
sitting beneath her. Giving a moment to inspect

her, she is indeed dead and has been for the
better part of a week. Her wounds involve several

severe puncture wounds throughout her torso.
Multiple stabs, one in her throat.

SAM: Can anyone talk to her?

MARISHA: Pike's not here.

MATT: Are the rest of you guys coming down to see
this?

TALIESIN: I'm heading down if everybody else is.

LAURA: I look around. Any evidence left behind of
who it was that attacked her?

MATT: Investigation checks for the guys who are
checking the room. What are you guys checking?

LIAM: I'm going to check her further.

MATT: Investigation check on the body.
Investigation check on the room.

MARISHA: I want to see if they've turned the
room.

LAURA: I want to see if I can find something left
behind by the killers.

SAM: I'm looking for other exits.

LIAM: 21 on her form.

TRAVIS: I'm looking for treasures.

MARISHA: 21 as well, looking at the house.

TALIESIN: Trying to get a sense of the situation
of the murder, how many people there were.

Investigation? 13.

MATT: There's a lot of foot movements, some more
heavy than others. It looks like there was a

scuffle here, but it's hard to tell how many
people were involved. Definitely more than two.

What'd you roll? 21? 15? You're having a hard time
finding anything that really specifically

represents that scuffle.

LAURA: I bring Trinket out and have him sniff
around.

MATT: Okay. Trinket begins sniffing around the
room. Keyleth, you find a series of puncture marks

in the walls themselves, in some of the dirt and
stone parts of the wall, some small stab puncture

wounds across the wall in different places.

TALIESIN: Just to be safe, I'm going to close the
trap door.

MARISHA: Is it dark down here?

MATT: It is pitch dark. Percy, for the most part,
you don't have any sort of sight--

MARISHA: Is it safe for me to throw out a Daylight
spell? I throw up a Daylight.

MATT: The room now illuminates, and you all have a
very clear perspective on this. You, inspecting

the body, the puncture wounds that are in the
front have corresponding puncture wounds in the

back as well. You can see clasps on the shoulders
where a cloak would be affixed, but the clasps

have been broken off and there is no cloak there.

TRAVIS: Any treasures in the room?

MATT: What'd you roll for an investigation check?

TRAVIS: 18.

MATT: 18? Most of the room has been completely
ransacked. It looks like there were places where

some things might have been useful, but they have
been taken. You find a couple of discarded jewel

boxes or lockboxes that have since been broken
open and left with a couple scattered gold coins

here and there, but this place has been completely
cleaned out.

SAM: I was looking for other exits and entrances
to the building all around, and I rolled a 29.

MATT: There looks to be one hidden passage behind
this one cabinet, where all the drawers have been

pulled out and left on the ground empty, but
behind that there is a small tunnel that exits

outward.

SAM: To the street?

MATT: You don't know. As you're inspecting it,
you're seeing more and more of these, each one of

these puncture marks that hit the front, also
correspond to the back. It's a clear wound through

each way and it appears to be a burn around the
outside of each one of these punctures.

TALIESIN: Well, I haven't looked at them yet, and
there's no reason to look until someone, yeah.

LIAM: Percival, come here.

LAURA: Can I have Trinket sniff around for
anything that doesn't smell like her? For other

people?

LIAM: Perce? This looks like your work.

LAURA: Advantage on smell.

TALIESIN: I take a look at the body.

MATT: You are very familiar with these type of
wounds. Corresponding to the punctures you've seen

in the wall behind, you go back, check, and begin
to pry in, and you pull out small, iron balls.

MARISHA: I pull it out, and I hand it to Percy.

TALIESIN: Well, that was quick.

MARISHA: I'm sorry. I guess our girl is back in
our narrative.

TALIESIN: That's the best case scenario.

MARISHA: So hang on. Which hand is Ripley missing?
Right hand? What hand print is on the trapdoor? Is

it a left hand?

MATT: It's a left hand.

TRAVIS: How did she even know about this?

MARISHA: She's been doing a lot of research, and
she's been following our exploits.

TALIESIN: She's probably spying on me.

MARISHA: We know she's a huge fan of Percy.

TALIESIN: Waiting for me to build something.

SAM: Single Whitestone Female?

LAURA: Maybe Mistress Asharru wasn't wearing the
cloak. Maybe she happened to hide it down the

tunnel.

SAM: I found a secret exit that someone could have
used to come in and kill, or exit after, or maybe

not at all.

TALIESIN: Are there exit wounds on the back of the
body as well?

MATT: There are, yes. Corresponding exit wounds.

LIAM: I'll walk over to Scanlan. I'm going in.

MATT: Okay. You guys follow this tunnel. It's a
very small tunnel, and it continues on for a very

intense period of time.

LIAM: Trap check! That is a 24.

MATT: Okay. Keeping your eyes up as you continue
along, you do not find any traps. Eventually it

comes up and stops. There above, you can see
there's a small series of hand platforms or

grooves in the wall that lead up to this cylinder
and above you can see a grate.

LIAM: Start climbing up it.

MATT: You climb up and push off there. You come
out. Just glancing up very carefully over the

side, you see an opening into the Suncut Bazaar,
just outside of an alleyway that opens up into the

rest of the chaos.

TALIESIN: We need to get the word out and quickly.
We need to find her before she figures out a way

to return.

MARISHA: Get the word out about what?

TALIESIN: She's still in this city.

LAURA: It was over a week ago potentially. She
could be long gone.

MARISHA: The leader of one of the largest criminal
masterminds is now dead in the city. We have to

find the murderer. What do we say?

SAM: How long has the body been here? A week? I'll
talk to my contacts in the underworld.

MARISHA: If it's a week, Ripley could be
anywhere.

LAURA: Did Trinket smell anything?

MATT: Trinket did not, actually. Trinket had a
rough time trying to just get the bearings and

find anything specific.

LIAM: I hippety-hop back down.

MATT: Okay, you head back and join the group.

SAM: We could at least ask around and see if
anyone has-- But she disguises her appearance,

doesn't she?

TALIESIN: She's got a missing arm, though.

MARISHA: Yeah, but she was able to hide that
before.

LAURA: The guard at that one place. I feel like it
was her.

TALIESIN: It's not Ripley.

MATT: As you guys sit here and contemplate the
various possibilities as to who is

responsible for this, where they may be, why, and
if they indeed have this Vestige in their grasp,

we'll end tonight's session there and pick this up
next week.

SAM: It's a murder mystery now!

MARISHA: Hold onto those bullets. I might be able
to track her down, because they belonged to her.

TRAVIS: Nice job, Matt!

SAM: Nice job creating an entire casino, including
brand new games!

LAURA: I want to play more!

TALIESIN: I've figured out how to strategize! Your
dice game has a base strategy, which is only

double down on a six.

MARISHA: He's actually right. Then you have a one
in three chance of actually hitting.

LAURA: Oh, I rolled a seven!

TRAVIS: All right, okay, it's not real.

LAURA: I know, but I want to play this game all
the time. I just rolled a seven. I'm counting as a win.

SAM: We should really go back to this casino and
ask around for Ripley, maybe.

LAURA: Yeah and then just gamble.

SAM: Maybe. Just to win favor with the locals.

MARISHA: I suck with cops. I get thrown out
everywhere I go. It's great.

LAURA: Yeah, you lawyered her out of jail
before. Thanks, Loot Crate! Don't forget about the

awesome stuff that's in the store!

MARISHA: Thanks, Espionage!

TALIESIN: Oh my god, Espionage, thank you so
much!

MARISHA: Thank you, nail wraps!

MATT: And thank you guys for tuning in and
watching our silly game as it gets more chaotic.

Have a wonderful week, a wonderful weekend, and is
it Thursday yet? See you guys soon.

[end of captions]