MATT: Hello, everyone, and welcome to tonight's
episode of Critical Role, where a bunch of us

nerdy-ass voice actors sit around playing Dungeons
and Dragons and say inappropriate things before

the camera starts.

TRAVIS: Every time!

MATT: Anyway, we have back in person our
illustrious rogue, Vax'ildan.

TRAVIS: Welcome back, baby!

MATT: Happy to have you back. Let's get through
our announcements quickly so we can hop into the

game, because we have a lot to discuss. A lot of
things to see. A lot of places to go. First and

foremost, if we can give an awesome shout-out to
our sponsor Loot Crate. Once again been awesome

to the show. Once again, they have their theme this
month. Sam, did you want to say a thing or two?

SAM: The theme this month is Sam.

(laughter)

SAM: It's an odd theme. It's all shirts that I've
worn. No, the theme this month for Loot Crate is

the anti-hero. That's part of the Loot Crate theme
and the Loot Wear theme. Not just the box, but the

bag as well. But you know what I love?

ALL: What do you love, Sam?

SAM: I love toys. I love socks. I love shirts. I
love posters. I love collectibles. I love pins. I

love boxes. And I love deals. And you can get all
of those things in combination if you get a

subscription to Loot Crate. If you use
lootcrate.com/-- that's a forward slash--

CriticalRole, you will be instantly shown a
showcase of all the Loot Crate offerings. And

you'll get three, not one, not two, a little less
than four, but $3 off a monthly subscription.

LAURA: It's just the first month. It's just $3 off
the very first month.

SAM: Well, that's not as good.

(laughter)

SAM: But let's be real, it's still pretty good.

TRAVIS: Where'd you get that great t-shirt you're
wearing?

SAM: I am the best at advertising.

(laughter)

TALIESIN: Why did you have those notes with you?

SAM: (clears throat) Goodbye, Loot Crate.

(laughter)

SAM: $3 off the first month is great, though. It's
still great. It's still a good intro. It's

essentially like getting-- I don't know, I'm
done.

LAURA: It's $3 just for writing a word.

LIAM: It gets you in, and when you're in, you
don't want to get out.

TRAVIS: And they got really good stuff. You got
your t-shirt from Loot Crate, Voltron.

SAM: Oh! I'm wearing a Loot Crate t-shirt right
now. It fits. It makes me look strong and

handsome.

MATT: It's true. It's true. If that $3 can buy you
a six-inch sandwich at an undisclosed location

where sandwiches can be constructed, purchased by
artisans.

TRAVIS: Yes!

MATT: Thank you so much, Sam.

SAM: Sure, I did really good.

MATT: You did great, Sam. That was wonderful.
Taliesin, you're handling it next week.

TALIESIN: (groans) Okay.

(laughter)

MATT: All right, next announcements. Two weeks
from now, the first Thursday of September, I

myself, Marisha, and Taliesin will be out of town.
We'll be in the middle of the desert. However, the

rest of the crew here will be playing a one-shot
game, dungeon mastered by our wonderful, recently

proven skilled dungeon master here, Liam O'Brien.

LIAM: I'm all growed up.

MATT: Somehow in the canon world of Exandria. So
we'll see how that plays out for you guys. I'm

really excited to see what you pull together,
man.

LIAM: I have something very delightful planned.

MATT: So that'll be fun. So look forward to that
in a couple of weeks. We'll be thinking of you

guys while we're not here, but watch this guy be
evil. It's going to be great. Anything else anyone

wants to discuss?

LIAM: I would like to announce that I am so
goddamn happy to be back in this room.

TRAVIS: Yeah! Back in the pilot chair.

SAM: Wait a second, pilot chair?

MARISHA: Just don't think about it too much.

MATT: Can I also point out today that the official
World of Warcraft Twitter made a Critical Role joke?

TALIESIN: Is that true?

MATT: Someone sent them a piece of fanart that had
a Jaina and an Illidan talking, and the Critical

Role, or the response to me from World of
Warcraft, was: the Legion is coming towards you.

How do you want to do this? That made me happy. So
let's dive in to tonight's episode of chaos and

heroic whim.

LIAM: What's going to happen?

MATT: Out here, we dive into tonight's episode of
Critical Role.

[dramatic music]

MATT: Welcome back. Last we left off, Vox Machina,
in their search for the Vestiges of Divergence to

gain artifacts powerful enough to rival,
hopefully, the power of the Chroma Conclave, a

group of chromatic dragons that have been
terrorizing the countryside of Tal'Dorei. The

party has just finished their journey through the
Feywild, a strange, magically overgrown realm of

fey creatures, illusion, and apparently, corrupt
tree-bros. After a fight with this long-mentally

disturbed fey, heartbroken and driven to vengeance
and soiling the land around him, you defeated him

and took from him the bow, Fenthras, which you've
been seeking. Your Vestige, Vex.

LAURA: That's right. That's right.

MATT: You then gathered hands and through the
magical capabilities of Keyleth, the druid of the

Air Ashari, you managed to Plane Shift the rest of
the party back to Whitestone itself. Speaking of which--

LAURA: Already? Already?

MARISHA: How long have we been gone?

MATT: All right, and I also need Scanlan, Percy,
and Grog to roll wisdom saving throws.

SAM: What did we do to deserve that?

TALIESIN: We all deserve it. We know we do. That
was terrible. I have a thing called Resolve and I

have one usage of it left. May I use it?

MATT: You get to reroll a saving throw? Yeah, you
may.

TALIESIN: Okay.

SAM: Would this be magic, Matt?

TALIESIN: That's double.

MARISHA: Goddamn it.

MATT: It's a magical effect.

TRAVIS: We're in trouble.

SAM: If it's not magic, then I have an 11.

MATT: Okay.

LIAM: Guys, drama needs conflict.

TALIESIN: Eight.

TRAVIS: Six.

LAURA: Oh my god!

LIAM: Hot damn!

TALIESIN: I'm so excited.

MATT: No. As the portal shifts closed behind you,
you all step out into the center of the Whitestone

city square. You can see behind you the Sun Tree
where you guys left originally. It is midday.

Clouds are high in the sky. Little breaks where
you can see beams of sunlight coming through.

Looks like there's a darker rainstorm coming,
probably in the next half-day or so, off in the

distant northwest, and there are now townspeople
looking about at the group of you guys. Keyleth,

Scanlan, Vex, and Vax: returning, your mind feels
a little fuzzy, but overall nothing seems to have

affected you. You're glad to be back. Percy and
Grog, you are very confused how you got here and

not quite sure why nothing has happened since you
gathered here as friends. Yes?

TALIESIN: So do we have a straight piece of
missing time? Are we still waiting to go to the

Feywild?

MATT: As far as you guys know right now, you guys
are still waiting.

MARISHA: That's horrible for Percy. You've
wanted to go your whole fucking life!

TRAVIS: All right, I'm ready to go!

TALIESIN: How long does this spell take?

TRAVIS: Yeah, do we have to wait long, because I
have the pee. You know? Where you're like

hide-and-go-seek pee?

TALIESIN: I did, but I feel fine now.

LAURA: Ready to go to the actual castle?

TRAVIS: Feywild.

LIAM: Keyleth just brought us back. We're back.

LAURA: We're back from the Feywild.

TALIESIN: You're a terrible liar. (laughs)

LIAM: That's true, but it's irrelevant. What the
fuck are you talking about?

TALIESIN: What are you talking about?

MARISHA: Does the name Garmelie ring a bell?

LAURA: If he doesn't remember we went, does that
mean I lose my title?

LIAM: Maybe you can work it out?

MARISHA: You titled Vex'ahlia.

TALIESIN: I did what?

LAURA: Oh no!

SAM: You gave Vex'ahlia a title in your Whitestone
kingdom. She was the Duchess of some hut.

TALIESIN: Can someone who can't successfully lie
to me please explain to me what's going on?

LAURA: Baroness. Lady Vex'ahlia, Baroness of the
Third House of Whitestone, Grand Mistress of the

Grey Hunt.

TALIESIN: How do you know about the Grey Hunt?

LAURA: I don't know anything about the Grey Hunt,
but it's written down on a piece of paper you gave

me, Percy.

TALIESIN: Is it written on a piece of paper?

MARISHA: It is written on a piece of paper.

LAURA: That I actually threw out because I fixed
up my notes. So I don't have the piece of paper in

this world binder.

TRAVIS: What a dicklord. You did not throw out the
paper.

MARISHA: Someone wrote it down, right?

TRAVIS: You piece of shit. Why did you throw it
away? What a fucking--

TALIESIN: This is how I know you're lying, because
if I had written that down, you wouldn't have

thrown it away. That's ridiculous.

LAURA: No, no, it's definitely right here.

LIAM: Are you certain you're not trying to do
comedy right now?

TALIESIN: I feel funny. I don't know-- for the
sake of actual sanity, does she actually have the

piece of paper that he wrote down?

SAM: Did he write something down?

TALIESIN: I did, I wrote it down for her and
handed to her.

LAURA: He did, and it's just, it's in my-- so I
don't have it.

MATT: You would've had it with you. You would've
definitely had it with you. And yeah, she does.

LAURA: I would still have it. It's just not in
this particular not-in-that-world binder.

LIAM: It's not in this realm.

SAM: The binder that Vex carries is much, much
better.

TALIESIN: It's got like fur. And some like--

LAURA: Keeps it under her arm the whole time.

LIAM: There are more worlds than these.

LAURA: It's got a happy kitten on it that says
"hang in there."

LIAM: It says life-- (laughter)

LAURA: Life needs things to live?

TALIESIN: I don't know what's so funny about that
either. I don't remember any of that.

LIAM: It grows on you so quickly, though.

LAURA: Grog.

TRAVIS: What?

MARISHA: Show him the paper, Vex.

LAURA: Oh, here. It's right here. Right here.
That's your handwriting, don't you see it?

MARISHA: We were committing.

TALIESIN: It's fine. I'm happy to commit to this.
Why? What hap--? What?

LAURA: Oh god.

MARISHA: We were in Syngorn.

SAM: Wait, I think I can help. I'm going to cast
Modify Memory on Percy.

LAURA: And Grog's just content sitting over here
completely blank.

LIAM: Eating chicken that he found on the road.

TALIESIN: This is so exciting.

MARISHA: Little gamey?

TALIESIN: I've never seen him laugh like that
before.

MATT: This is-- this is a way to do it. All right.
All right.

SAM: I can help you remember, Percy. Just look
into my eyes.

TALIESIN: I don't want to.

SAM: Look into my eyes.

(laughter)

TALIESIN: Well, that's getting giffed. Okay,
yeah.

LAURA: But wait, are you just going to make up
what he remembers? No!

MATT: Percy, I need you to make a wisdom saving
throw.

TALIESIN: Oh, and I'm out of Resolve.

MATT: What is your spell DC? Is this with the
cone? Scanlan, is this with the cone?

SAM: With the cone. I want this to work.

MARISHA: You're going to pull-- screaming in his
face.

TALIESIN: Wow, eight.

MARISHA: What the fuck?

MATT: Scanlan, how do you modify his memory?
Because at this level you can alter the memories

of an event that took up to seven days ago.

TRAVIS: What level are you doing?

SAM: Level seven.

MATT: But you can only modify ten minutes of it.

LIAM: Speaking as Liam, remember that this is a
man who gave an evil sword-- he gave crystal meth

to Grog.

TALIESIN: The best crystal meth! The finest
crystal meth in Christendom.

SAM: I can change any memory. Ah, what was it
called?

TALIESIN: Ten minutes.

SAM: What was your title called? There's nothing
on this piece of paper!

(laughter)

TRAVIS: Inception.

LAURA: Lady Vex'ahlia. Baroness of the Third House
of Whitestone and the Grand Mistress of the Grey Hunt.

SAM: Jesus Christ. Baroness of what?

LAURA: Of the Third House of Whitestone.

TALIESIN: And Grand Mistress of the Grey Hunt.

LIAM: I have no patience for any of this shit.

SAM: Whitestone and Grand Mistress of the Grey
Hunt.

LAURA: Of all the ten minutes to have him
remember, maybe that's not the one to focus on.

TALIESIN: It's not remembering. He's going to be
making it up. I'm not actually going to remember

it, he's going to lie.

LAURA: Make up something wonderful for him. He's
wanted to go there his entire life. Make something

magical.

TALIESIN: You don't have time to have this
conversation. This is happening right now.

MATT: Yeah, go for it.

TALIESIN: This isn't happening. Fuck with me. I'm
so excited.

MATT: Scanlan.

SAM: Oh my god. When did we leave? How many days
has it been?

MATT: It's been close to a week in the Feywild
total, all the nights you've rested.

SAM: I can only modify ten minutes of time.

MATT: Correct.

SAM: So I can't build the whole story up.

MATT: No, he'll remember ten minutes that you plug
in right now.

TALIESIN: And by remember meaning whatever you
explain.

SAM: All right.

MATT: And remember, as truth, whatever ten minutes
he hands out. This spell is one of my favorite

spells in the game.

TRAVIS: This is amazing.

SAM: All right, I don't know. I'm going to make
him remember that we landed in the Feywild

together as a group. It was a beautiful field
filled with naked nymphs and fey creatures that

all came to him and gave him a wonderful full-body
massage.

TALIESIN: Very uncomfortable, all right. But no,
that was tension. Okay, yes.

SAM: Vex saw him and he did not want anyone to
know about this moment that he had. So in a fit of

panic, he gave her something, anything, a title. A
title to make her keep her confidence. The title

was Lady Vex'ahlia, the Baroness of the Third
House of Whitestone and Grand Mistress of the Gray Hut.

(laughter)

LAURA: Oh no.

SAM: She agreed to keep his secret and he had a
wonderful time before his memory fades.

TALIESIN: Oh my. Wait, that was-- we were-- but
there was-- you shouldn't, no! Yes! I did do this. Yes.

LAURA: You remember?

TALIESIN: I do, and we will never discuss why
again, but yes, I did do this, and I'm so glad I

wrote it down correctly because that was very
embarrassing. I'll have this approved.

LAURA: Approved?

TALIESIN: Yes, well, I'm going to make sure I have
to-- of course inform-- Yes.

TRAVIS: Who's yes?

MATT: It seems the awkward curse of the Feywild
has set into a couple of your allies.

TALIESIN: I, apparently, am missing an awful lot
of time. But this did happen. Yes, okay.

LIAM: Well, Percival, look at this. Show him the
bow.

TALIESIN: Oh, that kind of bow.

TRAVIS: Whoa!

LAURA: Oh, Grog, it's really badass. You killed
the guy that was holding it. You.

TRAVIS: Me? So it's mine?

MARISHA: I pull out the piece of the petrified
crocodile. We killed this, too. This is all that's

left of him.

TRAVIS: What? Those are like amazing things.

LAURA: Wait, is this normal? Would we have known
that this is normal for people to lose their

memory when they come out of the fucking Feywild?

MATT: No, you would have no idea.

LAURA: We wouldn't have learned any of that in our
studies. No?

MATT: Your studies aren't extensive on the
Feywild, and the people that may know, partially,

are suffering from the circumstance.

TRAVIS: There's a petrified crocodile. What else
did you see while we were in this magical place?

SAM: To be honest, my memory is foggy as well.

MATT: No, a little bit. But you guys weren't heavy
studiers. You weren't the most studious children.

LAURA: (whispers) I was a studious child.

MATT: For certain things.

LAURA: I was a very studious child. He cheated off
my tests all the time. I was incredibly studious.

MARISHA: Percy, I am so sorry. I know how badly
you wanted to go there. But here's the good news.

Now that I've been there, we can go back at any
time.

TALIESIN: Really? You promise?

LAURA: Grog, did this happen last time you went to
the Feywild?

TRAVIS: What?

LAURA: When you-- do you remember-- okay.

LIAM: I really don't think we need to worry about
Grog so much. I think he's fine.

TRAVIS: Thank you.

LAURA: You killed so many things, Grog. You fought
so many people.

TALIESIN: Oh god! Did we get alcohol? Did someone
give us alcohol?

LAURA: No.

TALIESIN: Damn.

LIAM: But that can happen today.

TALIESIN: Yeah, but it won't be fairy alcohol, but
I know.

MARISHA: Yeah, we've been, naturally, without
alcohol.

LAURA: We need to find Pike. Pike came to help
us.

TALIESIN: How long have we been gone for?

SAM: Pike was there.

LAURA: Five days?

SAM: I don't know, it's a bit foggy, but a few
days.

LIAM: Guys, let's just go find a wizard and some
alcohol, in whichever order.

TALIESIN: I'm going to go file this and I'll meet
you in a moment.

LAURA: There's Gilmore, we could talk to him.
Allura? Maybe she can help.

TALIESIN: Here. I'm going to make sure that that's
finalized with the correct spelling.

LIAM: Jabba the Hutt. Not that grand to me. I
start walking off towards the castle.

SAM: We're in Whitestone?

MATT: You're in Whitestone, currently, yes.

LIAM: Come on!

SAM: All right, let's go.

TRAVIS: We just left there.

LIAM: Just eat your pigeon and come along, Grog.

TALIESIN: Strange. Suddenly, I am hungry. Are you
suddenly hungry?

TRAVIS: Yeah.

TALIESIN: We should eat something.

LAURA: I make sure Trinket's out of the necklace.

MARISHA: Yes, I could use a glass of wine.

TALIESIN: I could use a carafe of wine.

MATT: Trinket licks the side of your face. Nuzzles
you as you walk towards the castle.

TRAVIS: Wait, if you got a bow, and there were
pixies, and you gave her something, did I get

anything? Did I pick up any diseases?

LAURA: Lots of diseases.

SAM: You fought bravely. And often. You wielded
your weapon strongly and proudly, and had many

definite physical encounters, and were never
frozen. And showed your power and defended us to

the best of your ability.

LIAM: You waded through blood, Grog.

TRAVIS: Can I insight check Scanlan?

MATT: (laughs) You can. Scanlan, make a deception
check.

TRAVIS: Six!

SAM: Okay, good. 17.

(laughter)

TALIESIN: Holy Jesus.

MATT: Seems legit, and a part of you is
disappointed that you can't recall this memory.

But even just them speaking of it is almost half
of the fun, so.

TRAVIS: That's pretty great. I like all those
things you said.

SAM: You were great.

TRAVIS: Did I get any new weapons? I won't be able
to pull it out of the bag of holding unless I know

what's in there.

SAM: That's true.

TALIESIN: I'm going to check my pockets for
anything interesting.

TRAVIS: I don't have pockets.

LAURA: Percy, your sketchbook.

TALIESIN: My sketchbook, yes, what about it?

LAURA: You made sketches the entire time.

TALIESIN: Oh my god! I did!

MATT: And you look through the pages and there are
sketches you don't remember drawing.

TRAVIS: Oh fuck! I mean, oh fuck!

TALIESIN: This is so weird.

MARISHA: You had a lovely time.

TALIESIN: This'll do.

MARISHA: We can go back. We'll take a lovely
vacation.

TALIESIN: No, no, this and liquor will do.

LAURA: You used your lightning javelin. You--

MATT: As you guys approach--

LAURA: Yes! You have a little statue. You have a
little statue, Grog.

SAM: Oh, that's right. A little statue of a dog
that might be magical.

TRAVIS: A little statue of a dog.

SAM: An onyx statue of a dog.

TRAVIS: Can I reach into the bag of holding for an
onyx statue of a dog?

MATT: Make an intelligence check.

SAM: I've seen it, I can reach in there.

MATT: One of you guys can reach in there and get
it if you want to. I just want to see if he can.

TRAVIS: 11.

MATT: Unfortunately, your lack of imagination is
finding it difficult based on the words you were

given to formulate enough of a solid creative
thought.

LAURA: It's black. Onyx means black.

TALIESIN: Honest statue of a hog. It's an honest
statue of a hog.

SAM: Doesn't know what onyx is. He's picturing--

MATT: He barely knows what a dog is at this
point.

TRAVIS: If you want to reach in here and reach in
my bag. Oh.

LIAM: Sam, you can do this to me too.

MATT: And there you have it. The onyx mastiff is
there before you.

LAURA: It's an onyx mastiff. It's an onyx
statuette of mastiff. If you use an action to

speak the command word--

LIAM: Which we don't know--

LAURA: I know. And throw the figurine to a point
on the ground within 60 feet of you it becomes a

living mastiff for up to six hours.

LIAM: I thought the guy told us we'd have to
figure it out. Did he whisper anything to you?

LAURA: It was etched on the bottom and I totally
understand it.

LIAM: Oh, you read Elvish?

LAURA: I do.

LIAM: You're partially elvish.

LAURA: It's right there.

SAM: So wait, it's insta-dog?

LAURA: It's insta-dog.

SAM: And then what does it do? Can it fight?

LAURA: It fights. It has sight and hearing checks.
It bites and it claws just like-- oh, no. It just bites.

SAM: And what happens if it gets killed?

LAURA: I'm looking, I'm looking.

TRAVIS: It has an intelligence of eight.

SAM: What's your intelligence?

TRAVIS: Six.

SAM: Oh my goodness.

LAURA: The creature reverts to its figurine form.
It reverts to a figurine early if it drops to zero

hit points or if you use an action to speak the
command word again while touching it. When the

creature becomes a figurine again, its property
can't be used again for, ugh, seven days.

TRAVIS: Get to the bottom part, come on.

LAURA: Mastiff has an intelligence of eight
(laughs) and can speak Common. It's smarter than you.

SAM: Oh, it's a talking dog?

LAURA: Yeah.

MARISHA: I wonder if it has a name.

MATT: It can also see invisibility.

SAM: It can see invisibility?

MATT: That's why it's a good guard dog if you--

LAURA: And objects within that range.

SAM: I like this dog.

LIAM: The only important thing on that paper.

MARISHA: And how long does he last? He just lives
until he's done?

TALIESIN: Six hours.

LAURA: Sorry, I didn't mean to read all that and
make it not interesting.

TRAVIS: If you set camp though, good sentry.

SAM: But we need to know the magic word.

LAURA: We know it. It's good doggie.

SAM: Oh, we know the word already?

MATT: It's part of the enchantment, yeah.

MARISHA: Good doggie.

SAM: Can you teach us how to say that in Elvish?

TALIESIN: Don't teach him how to say it in
Elvish.

LAURA: You can say it in Common. He understands
Common.

TALIESIN: He understands Common, that's fair.

LIAM: Vel'ena. Vo'el'ena.

SAM: Vo'el'el'ena?

LAURA: Yeah, that's it.

SAM: Vo'el'la'la'la.

TRAVIS: All right, we start walking back to
Whitestone.

LAURA: Grog, I'm sorry.

SAM: Let's get the dog out here.

TALIESIN: Let's hold off on the dog.

MATT: As you guys make your way towards the
castle, there's a small group of figures. You see

three armored Whitestone soldiers with one figure
following them. Different outfit, looks to be

simple dark blues and grays. Dark skin, short dark
hair, carrying his crossbow at his side. As you

make eyes, you immediately recognize this as
Jarett.

MARISHA: Jarett!

MATT: Jarett is coming down and he sees. "Aye,
friends, it has been a while. I'm so happy to see

"that you survived. It's been a while. Is everyone
okay?"

LIAM: How long?

MATT: "Aye, most better part of a week."

MARISHA: So it is like Saturday here, right? Time
runs the same?

MATT: "Yes?"

MARISHA: So it wasn't yesterday?

SAM: Why did you taste the wind?

MATT: "I don't know why. It's a strange
question."

(laughter)

TALIESIN: It tastes like Saturday, certainly.

MATT: "More confused by the question, but it's
fine. All right."

LAURA: How are things here?

MATT: "Well, (sighs) let's just say better for the
time being." And as you look up, what you didn't

notice before when you saw the clouds is there's
this slight light blue hue to the entire sky.

TALIESIN: Excellent.

MATT: There's this very faint shimmer to it. And
he goes, "Ah, the barrier is now up, which is

"good. As soon as they finished that, Allura, Drake
and Kima all left to find information on the green dragon."

LIAM: Where?

MATT: "I did not inquire as to the location, but
they said they should be back in the next few days."

LAURA: Cassandra might know.

TALIESIN: She will.

MARISHA: When did they leave?

MATT: "It's three days ago? They were hoping to
get insight on Thordak's current situation while

"we amass as many armored folks here as possible
and continue to reach out for allies. I think that

"is the main goal right now, is to find as many
allies as we can. It was interesting to put a

"stake into this fight."

LAURA: So you're leading an army?

MATT: "Well, we're building whoever we can in this
vicinity. There's not many. At the very least,

"defend, in case this ends up falling."

LAURA: And what's your role in it?

MATT: Welcome back. Slight little technical issue
there. We're going to roll back in. Little bit of

information, step into the moment. As Jarett has
walked down the steps of Whitestone and began a

conversation with Vox Machina about the current
situation here, he says how, "Currently, Allura,

"Kima, and Drake are off trying to find information
on the green dragon, Raishan, and trying to

"discover what best can be done regarding the
attack on Thordak in Emon. Here, I am doing the

"best I can to build what armed forces we have at
our disposal, and we're trying to reach out to

"bring whatever allies are willing to put their
stakes into this battle. But yes, this is a

"monumental task based on my own experience, and
I'm doing the best I can. But bear with me, it's--"

LAURA: We have faith in you, Jarett.

MATT: "Thank you, I'm glad somebody does. Asum
actually just arrived here. About two or three

"hours ago."

LAURA: Yes. We were wondering what happened to
him.

MARISHA: Haven't seen him in a while.

MATT: "As were we. Last we heard from Gilmore that
he disappeared with Tofor within Emon after the attack."

LIAM: Shaun's still in the city?

MATT: "Shaun is still in the city. I believe he's
actually up meeting with Asum and Cassandra right

"now in the castle."

TALIESIN: Let's clean up and head in that
direction, I'd imagine.

MATT: "Certainly. Well, if you need me, I'll be
around. Just--"

MARISHA: Jarett?

MATT: "Yes?"

MARISHA: Has there been any eyes on the green
dragon here recently?

MATT: "None of us have seen the dragon. None of us
know its whereabouts, and attempts to scry have

"been balked. I do not know."

MARISHA: Okay, thank you.

MATT: "It's all right. I believe there is
information on the whereabouts of the white."

MARISHA: Do we know where?

MATT: "I do not know. That is more for what they
hold at the castle."

MARISHA: Okay.

MATT: "Yell loudly if you need me."

MARISHA: Thank you.

MATT: "It warms my heart to see you all safe."

MARISHA: Same.

MATT: He gives a little salute and a smile, and
continues with the other guards back towards the

center of the city. As you guys ascend the steps
to Castle Whitestone, you enter the large gates

that slowly creak open as you come to the familiar
interior. You can hear the voices echoing in the

distance from the nearby-- what was once the guest
dining area of the castle has now been converted

into a war room.

As you approach the outside of the doors, they're
partially ajar; on the inside you can see your

sister, Cassandra, sitting at a table. Gilmore is
leaned back, arms crossed, tugging on the end of

his chin goatee, and you see Seeker Asum currently
facing towards Cassandra. They're in

mid-conversation right now. As soon as you enter
the room: "It is good to know that you all

"survive, as they've told me."

MARISHA: Same to you, Asum.

MATT: As he turns and looks towards you, you can
see the side of his face that has all the heavy

tattoos now bears heavy acid scars that have
blended the tattoos into the scarring. It's not a

very pretty sight, but he seems to at least be in
one piece right now. He still has his thick,

hooded cloak around his shoulders, and where
normally he has a shaved head, some of the hair is

growing in in areas that can grow hair based on
the damage to this side of his face.

SAM: What happened to you?

MATT: "What happened to me is I made out a lot
better than many of the people there that day.

"This-- I'll take this."

MARISHA: I'm so sorry.

MATT: "It's fine. I've had worse. Trust me. Come,
sit." Cassandra sits up. "My brother." She comes

up and gives you a big hug and holds you for a
second.

LAURA: Pardon our appearance. And stench.

TALIESIN: Yes.

TRAVIS: Do we smell?

LAURA: We're covered in that black messiness, I
assume.

TALIESIN: I hadn't even noticed, actually.

MATT: You do. And it is. Its scent has faded a
bit, but you all still are not in the most

presentable means. However, the conversation's
dire tone seems to be enough where no one pays

much mind to it.

TALIESIN: We were successful. I will let the
others fill you in with some details, although I

do-- and I'm going to double check, and I'm going
to find the brief letter explaining what I've set

up with Vex, although it will not have any of the
reason why, but it will have at least the nature

of what's been done. And we have acquired, well,
Vex. Vex'ahlia, if you would.

LAURA: Another Vestige.

MATT: As you pull it out, they all step back.
Gilmore leans forward. "Very good."

LAURA: I would love for you to take a look at it,
Shaun.

MATT: "I would love to have a look at it." He
takes it. As you hand it to him, it actually curls

around the back of his hands and whips back into a
strong, tensile stance, and he-- "That's weird."

He takes it and starts looking over it as
Cassandra looks back. "I'm glad you're all safe,

"and apparently named. Welcome to Whitestone, Lady
Vex'ahlia."

LAURA: Thank you.

MATT: She takes it, folds it. "I'll have this put
in the books immediately."

TALIESIN: I appreciate your kind generosity.

MATT: "I will request more information soon."

TALIESIN: We'll see, yes. That might be
complicated, but yes.

MATT: "Anyway, have a seat. Asum, please, inform
them of what you've been telling us." As you all

find a seat, he sits there quietly, his eyes
darting around in his head, ruminating over the

thoughts and trying to formulate his presentation.
He crosses his fingers in front of his face.

"Things are a bit of a mess within the city. None
are allowed to leave. Living under the watch of

"the wyvern guard, hundreds of lizardmen worshipers
of Thordak have been watching the city from above. Some

"have tried to flee beyond the walls, but
ultimately end up being returned at the end of a

"set of talons and not seen again. Thordak calls a
gathering every dusk of the surviving populace.

"Tens of thousands forced to come and gather at the
center of the remnants of the Cloudtop District.

"He gloats, instills fear in all that behold this,
and offers forgiveness to those who offer fealty

"to him. All are to cheer his name, applaud his
statements, and thank him for his mercy. Those

"that fail to do so are pulled from the crowd by
his lizardmen and devoured by the beast himself,

"lined up to the slaughter as a show. And there is
laughter from the beast that pushed them into his

"maw. Most of the wealth of the city is now amassed
in the ashes of the district, forming a massive

"wall of shiny chunk and coin, like a nest around
the fucking beast. He's enslaved a number of the

"greatest sculptors of the city to begin making his
likeness in the surrounding stone. They chisel

"away at the tall, proud walls of the interior,
showing his terrible face where it does not

"belong. A vain fucker. He's crazy, that one.
What's more dangerous than an intelligent dragon

"than one who's crazy? I've been keeping an eye as
best as I can. Thordak gives direct orders to his

"wyvern guard often, some off to communicate, I
presume, with the other members of the Conclave; I

"know not. I've been stuck within the city. Most
survivors stay indoors. I've been working with the

"Clasp, believe it or not, to shepherd over a
thousand people below the city streets for

"protection. The lesser of two evils, to be sure,
but at the very least, at the moment they have

"nothing to gain by working against us at this
juncture. Naught but six hours ago, the Cinder King

"was roaring in anger, his cries echoing through
the streets. The people fell to their knees,

"thinking this was the end. Stepped up from his
volcanic throne, and sent the majority of his army

"eastward. I used this distraction to slip into the
now-unguarded Lyceum, find a port scroll and a

"sigil for Whitestone before they returned. Came
here to see all of you alive, so that's the best

"news I've had in weeks. That's the best I have to
bring you about the current state of the city."

MARISHA: That's our home.

MATT: "That's our home."

TALIESIN: What is eastward?

MATT: "Kymal. Westruun. Technically, here."

LAURA: Did you bring any other survivors with
you?

MATT: "I was the only one who could make it into
the Lyceum unseen. Tofor is still back there,

"fighting the good fight. She's working with Shenn.
They're trying to get as many below ground as

"possible, and out of harm's way."

LIAM: And Greyskull Keep?

MATT: "I haven't seen it. I've been within the
city walls."

LAURA: Did you say Thordak's wife? Did I mishear
you?

SAM: Wyvern guard.

MARISHA: Wyvern. I heard wife.

LAURA: Wife and guards is what I heard, and I was
so fucking confused.

MATT: Sorry.

MARISHA: Wait, his wyvern guard is often...?

MATT: He sent a majority.

MARISHA: Oh, that's still me manufacturing shit.
Okay.

TALIESIN: We don't know where they've been sent.
We don't know why.

SAM: Eastward.

MATT: "That's all I've seen."

TALIESIN: We need to find out where they're
going.

MATT: "I had to use that time to get to the
Lyceum. Usually it's too heavily guarded."

TALIESIN: No, of course. Just making a list.

LAURA: You've done so much.

MATT: "I've done so little. There's more to be
done. But the more time that passes, whatever it

"is they're planning, I'm sure is getting closer to
fruition."

MARISHA: Do we have any known whereabouts on the
white or the green dragon?

MATT: He looks over and Gilmore steps forward,
sets the bow down, and says, "First and foremost,

"this is a glorious piece. I could only hope to
eventually create something of its majesty." He

hands it over. "A bit creepy in ways, but I think
you'll make good use of it. Once we complete the

"barrier and put quite a bit of concentration each
day into maintaining it, of which Pike has been of

"great aid to me, between the arcane and divine
magics, I think we found a fine balance.

"Hopefully. But anyway, I've been putting the rest
of my energies towards trying to procure this

"information. The green, Raishan, as I believe
you've told me, eludes my watch, my gaze. There is

"a lot of protection around that one. I get the
sense that of those in the Conclave, she is

"probably the most trained in my arts."

LAURA: She's the one that released Thordak, so
that wouldn't surprise me.

MARISHA: She's on my shit list.

MATT: "I think she's on a lot of people's shit
lists. Mine as well. The white, however. I know

"not its name, but I was able to look towards it. I
was able to find it sitting amongst a large pile

"of rock and rubble. Looks like a fallen city,
crumbled and destroyed. From what I saw, there

"were smoldering ruins, toppled landscapes of
buildings and temples, arcane crystals crashed and

"cracked, deep inside a ravine. There, the white
dragon perched, setting up this slow-rolling

"winter amongst a shivering horde of dragonborn."

TRAVIS: Oh, shit.

MARISHA: What did he just say? What?

LIAM: Shivering horde of dragonborn.

TRAVIS: Amongst a horde of dragonborn.

LAURA: Draconia?

MATT: "What remains of it."

LIAM: Fuck.

MATT: "That was days ago."

TALIESIN: That's a card we no longer have.

MATT: "I need to be careful when doing this."

LIAM: The city was razed?

MATT: "From what I could see, yes."

TRAVIS: Did you see any motion? Any slaves?

MATT: "Oh, yes. There were many survivors, but
they were not in the best of states."

TRAVIS: This white dragon, does he bring weather,
or any sort of change? It's all ice and snow, yeah?

MATT: "The very essence of each ancient wyrm, if
you will, carries with it its own element. It

"slowly transforms the landscape around where it
takes up its new den. If it seems to sit atop the

"remains of the once-proud Draconia, then it now
falls under the icy grasp of the beast."

LIAM: And the will of the people there?

MATT: "I could not look that deep. My apologies."

MARISHA: Is this just with a simple Scrying spell?
Okay.

TALIESIN: We must be careful. We cannot let
Whitestone be discovered.

MARISHA: Yes, and as we've learned before, Scrying
can alert your position.

MATT: At this point in time, you guys hear heavy
footsteps heading up from the lower floor of the

castle. You hear two voices shout out, "Lady
Cassandra! Lady Cassandra!" They enter the room

real fast. You see one man, probably in his
mid-20s or so, sweat pouring down his face, his

eyes wide. "My lady." At that point you hear,
echoing outside of the castle, this loud,

piercing, shrieking roar.

MARISHA: Oh my god.

MATT: (roar)

LAURA: Shit balls motherfucker.

MATT: It's distant, but even at that distance, it
is loud.

LAURA: Gilmore, does the screen keep us hidden?

MATT: You look back, and even in his most damaged
state, Gilmore had an essence of confidence, and

this is a moment where you've never really seen
him so pale. "We're about to find out, aren't we?"

TRAVIS: I'm going outside.

LAURA: I'm going outside, too.

LIAM: I walk up to Shaun and slap my hand on his
forearm and say, what about the bow? Is there

anything you can tell us about the bow?

MATT: "In due time. Keep it at the ready."

MARISHA: I turn to Cassandra. We need to get all
of the citizens underground, immediately.

TALIESIN: We can't fit everybody.

MATT: "We can certainly try." She turns to the
guard. "Gather everyone we can. Gather--" And

there's another roar from outside, this time
louder still. "Go! Now!" Everyone starts rushing

down the stairs to the outside of Whitestone
Castle.

MARISHA: I go out and I do a Skywrite in the sky
again.

LAURA: Wait! Skywrite?

MARISHA: They already know we're here!

LAURA: No, they don't! They don't necessarily.

MARISHA: Making pictures in the clouds right above
the city. It's fine.

SAM: Maybe not.

LAURA: I wouldn't Skywrite anything right now,
Keyleth. That screen could keep us hidden. He

could be searching for us right now.

MARISHA: And what about the citizens?

SAM: We'll find another way to alert them. Send
out the dog. I don't know.

MATT: Are you guys exiting the castle now?

LAURA: Yes.

MARISHA: Do it by hand? We might not have that
much time.

MATT: As you step out into the front open patio
area, just outside of the castle's main gates, you

look up and that faint blue shimmer that encases--
and you can now see it as a dome, and it comes

down around, just directly around the city,
closing at the very outskirts of the castle. You

look in the distance as you see a few dark shapes
growing larger and larger.

MARISHA: They're coming this way!

TALIESIN: Hold.

MATT: I need you to make a perception check, all
of you.

MARISHA: Fuck!

TRAVIS: 17.

SAM: Nine.

MARISHA: 26.

TALIESIN: 23.

LIAM: 26.

LAURA: 16.

MATT: All right. Vax, Keyleth, and Percy. You guys
glance off and you can see there are a number of

shapes. It looks to be probably two, three dozen
large winged entities flapping.

You can't make out too much of the detail
of their form, but you can definitely see some

sort of aerial transport with large wings. At the
forefront of them, you see one far larger than the

rest. While you can't make out the details at this
distance, the one thing you do catch is the bits

of sunlight that peek through the clouds, hitting
the side of its hide. A bright, piercing white color.

TRAVIS: Fucking fucked.

MATT: You see it coasting at an angle around the
outside of the city, making its way very quickly

towards the outskirts of the town.

MARISHA: It's Thordak's army. Asum said himself
we're eastward. We're directly in its path.

TALIESIN: Hold.

MARISHA: Dragons have truesight. They already know
we're here.

SAM: Maybe they can't get through this.

MARISHA: Any second we wait longer, more people
could die!

LAURA: Send out the guards.

MATT: The guards are already running down, by the
way, based on Cassandra's orders, and are making

their way towards the city. You can already see
people coming out of the streets and looking up,

covering their ears. Some people are falling to
their knees and crying.

MARISHA: Percy.

TALIESIN: Pick them up. Keep running until the
moment they can't.

LIAM: They know we're here. This is not a
coincidence. They're not flying by. They know

we're here. They know.

MATT: (whoosh) You now see the dragon and the
flying horde have just come within a mile of the

southern portion of the city.

MARISHA: Percy!

TALIESIN: Wait!

LIAM: Do it.

LAURA: No. Don't do it!

LIAM: They're coming for us!

TALIESIN: This is my home. Wait.

TRAVIS: This is his home.

MARISHA: Percy.

TALIESIN: Keep moving.

MARISHA: You have five seconds to come up with a
better fucking plan, or I am doing it.

TALIESIN: Spread out. Keep moving. Find a
position.

MATT: Okay. What order are you guys rushing down
in?

LIAM: What are we looking at from our vantage
point?

MATT: You guys are looking down at the wide,
60-foot earth path that leads down from the base

of Castle Whitestone into the city itself.

TALIESIN: If I'm towards the front, I'm moving
everyone towards the house where we made the

tunnel that goes underneath the Sun Tree.

MATT: All right, so we have Percy at the front.

TRAVIS: I'll be right behind him.

MATT: Okay, Grog's right behind Percy.

LAURA: I'll follow behind Grog.

LIAM: We're up above, though? Or are we on ground
level at this point?

MATT: You guys are now on ground level. You're
above on the grade that leads down into the city itself.

LAURA: I pull out the broom and I get on the
broom.

MATT: Okay, so you're on the broom.

MARISHA: It's clear they're not deviating the
path.

LAURA: It's not clear. We could just be in their
way.

TRAVIS: He said they're curving.

MATT: They're now curving around the outside of
the western side of the valley.

TALIESIN: What are you going to write? What are
you going to write?

MARISHA: I would throw up the De Rolo crest, just
like before. It's a good alert sign.

LAURA: People would just come out screaming. They
won't know where to go.

MARISHA: Then come up with a better damn plan.

MATT: (roar) Echoing through the valley. You watch
as the entire crowd of these entities flies around

the west side of the city, curves past. The shadow
of the light of the sky, you can see the dark,

heavy shadow of the dragon and the wyverns pass
over the western side of the city. You can hear

distant screams as people begin to freak out at
this. It passes over the western side of the city,

flying right towards the castle.

MARISHA: Percy.

MATT: Arcs past the castle, over the forest, and
the entire cluster slowly flaps down and lands at

the southernmost beginning peak of the Alabaster
Sierras, just north of the city. The dragon

(crash noise) lands.

TALIESIN: Alert everyone you see.

MARISHA: They're scouting us.

TALIESIN: Tell them to get underground. Tell them
to be silent.

LAURA: They don't see us, but they know we're
nearby.

TRAVIS: What direction are they looking?

MATT: Right now, they're looking in all
directions, actually.

LAURA: We need to get everybody underground while
we can.

LIAM: We have time. We have time.

TALIESIN: Thank you. Find everyone. Tell them,
silence. We still have the cavern we built

underground. Start making it larger.

MARISHA: Okay.

TRAVIS: Shall we scatter? Spread the word?

LAURA: Spread the word. Tell everyone to get
underground.

TALIESIN: Under the tree.

MARISHA: I go to the cavern under the Sun Tree and
I start casting Move Earth and I start clearing it

as fast as I can.

MATT: Okay. It's going to take you a while, but
you begin building this cavern.

MARISHA: As fast as I can.

TALIESIN: More people.

SAM: Where are we telling people to go?

TRAVIS: We're scattering.

TALIESIN: There's the inn that was broken. It's
got an entrance. They either go there or they go

underneath the castle.

SAM: That can hold 30, 40 people?

TALIESIN: She's making it bigger.

LAURA: Can we send people under the castle as
well?

SAM: Okay, under the castle, yeah.

MATT: You guys all begin scattering, grabbing
everyone you can. The guards are starting to

gather people, and as you get the word out, people
begin to quiet, holding their mouths. The guards

are holding people silently. People begin ushering
en masse up towards this giant exodus from the

city, pouring like a funnel up this walkway to the
base of Castle Whitestone. Keyleth, as you're down

there, you're pressing. The dirt itself is slowly
molding its way into this large cavern, pressing

downward further and further and opening, further
down and opening.

MARISHA: Fallout cavern style. Big, lower, bigger,
lower.

MATT: You get about three platforms down before
the earth stops responding.

MARISHA: What do you mean?

TRAVIS: Fucking ziggurat!

MARISHA: The fucking ziggurat!

TALIESIN: Other way, other way!

MARISHA: I go the other way!

LAURA: Don't empty out the earth too much, or it
won't support the city.

MARISHA: Fallout style. Little pods.

MATT: All right. You start creating all these
various things, and people start ushering in. It's

getting to the point now where there's so many
people. You hear crying children, families pressed

in, you're feeling claustrophobic and the room's
getting hotter and hotter the more bodies that are

in there. You keep concentrating and pushing the
earth out. You can feel the sweat beads pouring

down your face, concentrating, concentrating. You
hear the crying and sobbing, and people trying to

comfort those that are freaking out. Every now and
then you hear a distant echoing cry, a scream of a

dragon in the distance, and everyone in the room
tenses, and the sobbing gets even louder, then

hushed again with whispering silence. You keep
pushing and keep pushing, opening. You guys all

begin to gather the rest as you watch, with that
final cry, the dragon and the wyverns pick up

(whoosh) and swoop towards the center of the
valley, arcing to the west, and do a wide sweep of

the mountain range. (flapping wings)

LAURA: Where's Gilmore?

MATT: Gilmore has been bringing people en masse
down to the castle. You haven't seen him for a number

of-- probably 15, 20 minutes or so. The dragons
coast around, and begin to disappear in the

southeastern distance where they came from. You
do, at this point, catch Gilmore, who has moved to

the top of the castle and is currently, arms out,
concentrating, pouring all the energy he can into

that barrier.

TRAVIS: Looks like the spell worked.

LIAM: Good work. Good work.

LAURA: Gilmore. Good job.

MATT: He eventually comes down from the top of the
castle. He is-- eye sockets are sunken. You can

see he's pouring with sweat. "I'm going to need a
spa day. Because I'm done."

LAURA: Where's Pike?

MATT: You guys find Pike. She, during this whole
period, was over by the temple of Pelor that she

was helping right and construct. Going over and
finding out where she's been placed, you guys see

that she's shepherded in a good 200 people into
that temple, and has been keeping them divinely

protected the whole time. As soon as you approach
the outside, the people begin to slowly disperse

back into the city. Pike walks out, looking out to
the sky and locks eyes with you. "You're back!"

Runs up and gives you a big hug. Jumps into your
arms at this point. You catch her, and realize how

heavy she is with the armor on, put her back
down.

LAURA: I drop her, because I'm fucking weak.

MATT: "Guys! Hi!"

LAURA: You did an amazing job with that.

MATT: "That was mostly him. I've never done
something like that before. That was-- everything

"okay in the Feywild? I'm sorry, I lost my
connection. We had to finish this ritual."

LAURA: No, it was fine.

MARISHA: Hi, Pike. Sorry.

MATT: "Don't be. I'm glad you're all okay."

SAM: Do you remember the Feywild?

MATT: "Yeah. We were--"

SAM: Okay. Just making sure.

LAURA: He doesn't remember, Pike.

MATT: "You don't remember?"

TRAVIS: Yeah. Apparently, we went to the Feywild,
and everybody remembers it but me and Percy.

MATT: "Why is that?"

LAURA: I don't know.

TALIESIN: It's funnier that way.

MARISHA: Maybe you can look at his head later.

LAURA: Maybe there's a way to cure it.

TRAVIS: I'm just too smart.

MATT: She walks up and takes a look at you, walks
up to Grog. Has a good look at the side of your

head, knocks you in the temple a few times.

TRAVIS: What do you see?

MATT: "There's nothing... physical. I'll try a
restoration." She would have, let's see here.

SAM: Pike stats!

TALIESIN: I was about to say, you have an Ashley
app. That's so adorable.

TRAVIS: Don't make me any dumber.

LAURA: Grog, that's not possible.

MATT: Yeah, she's going to try Greater
Restoration. Let me check something here real fast.

SAM: That was not fun.

LAURA: No.

MARISHA: Percy, are you sure it's okay for me to
let these people out?

TALIESIN: Of course it's not, but yes, definitely
let them out. We'll have to make it more secure

and safer.

LAURA: I think it's gotten quite a bit away from
us.

MATT: So Pike reaches up. The gauntlets begin to
glow, and as she touches each side of your

temples, your eyes close. As some of you watch
this, Grog's eyes flash open, and where his pupils

and the whites of his eyes were, you now see a
flash of divine golden orange light. As it fades,

you are slammed with a series of memories that
were previously taken from you, and you recall

every moment in the Feywild.

TRAVIS: (surprised noises)

SAM: I'm sorry! I'm sorry, you didn't get to kill
anything. I'm sorry.

LAURA: No, he did! He still killed the big bad
guy!

SAM: Oh, you did! You did, you killed the one
thing. Okay, good.

TRAVIS: I got petrified!

LAURA: Yeah, well, stoned.

TRAVIS: I tried diplomacy! Never again.

SAM: Lesson learned.

TRAVIS: Holy shit.

LAURA: Can you only do that one time a day?

MATT: "No, I can do it once more."

SAM: Maybe... well...

TRAVIS: No, it's okay, yeah! Percy will
remember the nude massage.

MATT: She walks up to Percy.

LIAM: Think of what he's losing, though.

TALIESIN: I'm not losing it.

LAURA: Potentially.

TALIESIN: No, because it doesn't matter. It's
there anyway.

SAM: Actually, I don't know. I don't know.

MATT: Yeah, you have overlapping memories. So she
reaches up and you bend down. She takes your

glasses off. Hands them to Vex. Reaches up and
touches the sides of your temple. "Now,

"concentrate." Close your eyes, and there's a burst
of warmth towards the front of your lobe, almost

like someone's dipping your head into hot water.
And with that, there's a smattering of memories

that are rushing into your mind. It takes you a
moment. Your head swims, and you have to almost

sit down. You almost stumble off your back foot as
your brain now has to reorganize those lost

moments. Seven days now immediately restored.

TALIESIN: Seven days, ten minutes.

SAM: Greater Restoration kills Modify Memory.

TALIESIN: Oh! But do I remember having the fake
memory? Or do I not remember having a fake

memory?

MATT: You would remember the spell being cast. You
remember the fake memory, but you're aware that

it's fake.

SAM: And that I did it?

TALIESIN: Yes.

MATT: Oh yeah.

SAM: Fuck.

LIAM: Just say thank you, Percival.

MATT: "Did it work?"

TALIESIN: I give her a big hug. I'm so tired. I'm
sorry. I'm going to sit down.

LAURA: What?

MATT: "Glasses?"

LAURA: Oh, but they're so fun to look through! All
right.

TALIESIN: They'll give you a headache.

MATT: She takes the glasses, and as you're
resting, she takes your hand away from your head

and puts them back on.

MARISHA: I start slowly releasing people from the
pods.

TALIESIN: Thank you.

MATT: People begin to emerge, and where once there
was this air of tension, fear, and desolate

acceptance of the end, there's laughter. There's
smiles, and even more tears as people begin to

realize they have another day to live.

LAURA: Can we tell the people as they come out, I
know you'll want to celebrate, but please keep it

as quiet as possible tonight. We don't know when
it could be back.

MATT: There's a stillness and a slow understanding
and nodding. While everyone takes in the

information, one young woman, smeared dirt on her
chin, dried tears on her cheek, steps forward and

goes, "Thank you. Thank you." And everyone else
starts saying, "Thank you. Thank you. Thank you."

This sea of thank-yous begins to spread through
the crowd immediately in your vicinity.

SAM: Don't thank us. Thank Shaun Gilmore.

LAURA: Gilmore and Pike. Allura.

MATT: They all quietly go back to their silence
and begin to slowly disperse themselves throughout

the city where they were before this incursion
happened.

MARISHA: I go up to Percy.

TRAVIS: I forgot that Shaun was Gilmore's first
name.

LAURA: He was like, who's Shaun?

SAM: Intelligence of six.

LIAM: So fucking method. Method, man.

MATT: Keyleth.

MARISHA: I hope you know that I would never--

TALIESIN: Shut up. Thank you.

SAM: I hope you know that I was only trying to
improve your life with a wonderful happy memory,

and it was mostly true.

TALIESIN: I know where you sleep. People work
for me.

MATT: Asum has caught up to you now as you guys
are walking back to the city. You can see him.

He's still, eyes to the sky, not truly trusting
this quiet. He goes, "It seems we don't have any

"time to lose. What resources do you have to fight
back? What have you learned? Please tell me you

"have better news than I have."

TRAVIS: Well, we've got a few of these Vestiges, so
we're a little powered up. But we're not quite

sure what their full abilities are. It's
significant, but we think they do more, we're just

not sure how much.

MATT: "What more do you need?"

LAURA: Can I fly up in the air while this
conversation's going on?

MATT: Sure.

SAM: Don't go too high.

LAURA: Not too high.

SAM: We don't know where the thing is.

LAURA: No, I know, I want to go to the very top
where I see the shimmer.

MATT: Yeah and it's a squat shimmer, not a full
dome and it's like a very extended type dome.

LAURA: Okay. But it's high enough, that I mean
it's higher than the castle.

MATT: It's high enough where you can get 
about 80 feet up and you start to see enough

detail in the shimmer where you're like, "Okay,
I'm getting close."

LAURA: Okay. The direction that the dragons went.
Is this stupid? Can I shoot my Oracle Arrow in

that direction?

SAM: No. Absolutely not.

LAURA: Why?

SAM: (high-pitched) Why would you bring attention
to us?!

LAURA: It's an arrow!

LIAM: They're long gone.

MATT: They are gone. The time has passed. They're
miles and miles and miles and miles and miles at

the speed they were travelling. You're a good shot,
but I don't know if you could arc an arrow that far.

LAURA: Oh well, I guess that's true. I thought it
was a ten-minute, because it's Fenthras I thought

it was a long-ass arrow.

TRAVIS: Can't you tell what direction the dragons
were heading?

LAURA: Oh! Wait, okay, so the Oracle Arrow, is it
like you fire it, and then it shoots somewhere and

it sticks there and I can see through it for ten
minutes?

MATT: Correct. Or see through it as it's fired,
the minute it leaves the bow you can project your

sight through the arrow for up to 10 minutes.

SAM: It can't fly for infinity?

MATT: No. It still arcs like a regular arrow.

LAURA: That makes sense. I foresaw it just going,
because I thought it was like a special kind of

arrow.

LIAM: It's really good for people without flying
brooms.

LAURA: Right. Cool. Then I'm not going to use it.
Because now I understand how it works. I've

learned something.

TALIESIN: What direction were the wyverns
travelling, were they travelling back? Or were

they travelling along--

MATT: They were heading southeast.

TRAVIS: So not back, they came from the west,
right?

MATT: They swooped in from the west, from that
side.

TALIESIN: But they originated in the west, and
they are currently travelling southeast?

MATT: Correct. However, it was Vorugal, it was the
white dragon, which from what Gilmore is saying

has been roosting over at the top of the ruins of
Draconia.

TALIESIN: Which is to the east.

SAM: So this was not the group that had set off
from Emon.

TRAVIS: To the west.

TALIESIN: No it's-- Draconia is to the southeast.
Why do I know that?

SAM: Here, here's the map. We're up here. This is
the group that was coming from Emon. These guys

came from somewhere over here? Where's Draconia?

LAURA: Can I cast Primeval Awareness and see if
it's within six miles of us right now, still? Or

if it's farther away from that.

MARISHA: I thought that Draconia's on a whole
another continent.

TALIESIN: Yeah, it is. It's over here.

MATT: It's over on Wildemount.

LAURA: I want to see if they're just camping out
around us or if they're going away.

TALIESIN: Are they going back?

MATT: Using for dragons, I assume, right?

LAURA: Yes. It's my favored enemy.

MATT: Yeah. I would say as part of your Primeval
Awareness--

SAM: If this is the United States, we're in Maine.
Emon is LA.

MATT: Yeah. Sensing at this point, with the day of
travel and everything, you have no sense of

dragons in that direction or anything.

LAURA: Okay. They're further than six miles away.

MATT: Yeah, there are minor essences in the
northern area, but nothing beyond what you've

already sensed in the Alabaster Sierras. Nothing
on the level of strength that the draw of an

ancient dragon would bring on your radar.

LAURA: Okay.

TRAVIS: To answer your previous question, there
are four Vestiges left.

TALIESIN: That we know of.

LIAM: There's a dagger, there's a cloak. Armor.
There's a staff.

SAM: Wait, there's other objects that we
haven't--

MATT: "All right."

MARISHA: Four left. Because we have Whisper,
right?

LAURA: No, no, we don't have Whisper.

MARISHA: So there's five.

MATT: "Do we have any other allies, friends,
people who are sworn to aid us and--?"

TRAVIS: Ooh! Yeah, yeah! Your parents.

MARISHA: Yeah.

TALIESIN: That's right.

LAURA: Technically, the elves of Syngorn are
building an army. However, who knows if they'll

actually come through.

TALIESIN: The werewolves could be called upon.

MATT: "I think they would understand it would do
them well to help what is a threat to all of us."

TALIESIN: You would think.

SAM: One werewolf has vowed allegiance to us.

LAURA: In the Feywild.

TRAVIS: In another plane of existence, which I
don't know if that's a problem.

MATT: "Not going to count on that one."

TALIESIN: It's not as ridiculous as you think.

SAM: Yes. Your former pals.

TALIESIN: Whatever remnants of Draconia perhaps?

MATT: "Wait. So the last time we saw the main
portion, the bulk of Emon's army from Fort Daxio was

"sent to Syngorn before this attack happened?"

MARISHA: Yes.

MATT: "Do we have any knowledge on their
whereabouts?"

MARISHA: A lot are there.

MATT: "They're there?"

MARISHA: A lot of-- at least all of our guards from
Emon are in Syngorn, right?

LAURA: No. Our guards aren't in Syngorn.

MARISHA: Not our personal guards, but Emon's
guards.

LAURA: No.

MATT: You did see quite a few soldiers from Emon
there.

LAURA: Oh we did?

SAM: Yes.

LAURA: I was distracted.

MATT: That's okay. You did have a lot to think
about with your dad.

TALIESIN: They would not answer our call but if
someone has relations with the Clasp, they are

always an option for manpower.

MATT: "Well, I have been dealing with them and
definitely-- they're not much of an army, but

"they're definitely good at acquiring information
and I currently have a few of them trying to find

"out as much as they can about Thordak."

MARISHA: There's also the Ashari druids, who will
definitely want to help our cause.

TALIESIN: This is very true.

MATT: "That is good to know. Well, any more that
come your way or any possibilities you have to

"bring more to our cause, please, do so."

SAM: There's a candle-maker who might help out. I
would put him in the strong maybe category as well.

TALIESIN: Don't mention that Vex flies.

MATT: "Good, well keep tabs on those you've found
and any possibilities of others, especially those

"who have... I don't know, more of these Vestiges
that you speak of, or armies at their disposal.

"Big weapons, anything. I'll take anything at this
point really."

TALIESIN: There are options but we need to discuss
what happened today. This changes some things.

TRAVIS: Yeah, we need more offence, less defense. I
don't know if that will work a second time.

TALIESIN: You're mad. We need defense. This is not
a site of a victory, this is a site of our end. We

need bunkers.

LAURA: Yeah. We need to move everybody underground
the same way we did in Emon.

MARISHA: I can spend more time fleshing out and
reinforcing the bunkers to make them--

TALIESIN: I'll discuss a warning system to get
people underground.

SAM: But when the dragon came here just now, they
saw nothing, correct?

TALIESIN: We hope.

SAM: Is there a way that we can spread false
rumors that the city of Whitestone has been

magically moved to another plane or something?

LAURA: That's wonderful. That's smart.

SAM: Some way of getting that word to Draconia or
I don't--

TALIESIN: Putting the word out that we're other
places than we are. Putting the sound--

MATT: Asum thinks to himself and goes--

LIAM: Can't we drop it into the Clasp's pipeline?

MATT: "I can do that. Definitely. We can find a
way to get that information. There are a number

"who have sworn allegiance to Thordak and, you know.
Some folks who don't see honor but the necessity

"to stay alive override any sort of previous
friendships."

TRAVIS: Best not to mention our name. I don't
think we're cool with the Clasp after our last

meeting.

LAURA: Yeah, they don't like us.

MATT: "Good to know. I'll look about planting that
information. I'll do the best I can in that

"regard. I've been told that you've already felled
another of the Conclave, is that correct?"

TRAVIS: Yes.

LAURA: That's true. Umbrasyl. Dead and gone.

MATT: "That will certainly stir some attention
from them."

LAURA: Yeah, and if not that, then the message left
in there.

TALIESIN: They know we did it.

TRAVIS: Strange that he had all those wyverns with
him, though. Umbrasyl had none. He was by

himself.

LIAM: They don't like each other, though, this is
some sort of loose partnership.

TRAVIS: Yeah, but didn't they say the white one
was more savage. More emotional?

LAURA: The white one was more vain.

MARISHA: Yeah, the black one, Umbrasyl is the one
that's--

SAM: Oh you're right, the white one is a hunter,
it's primal. Hates others. You're right.

TALIESIN: Maybe the army's going to head to-- no,
we could be so lucky if it was on its way to

attack it.

MARISHA: Black ones like torture, right?

LAURA: Yeah, they like to make people suffer.

TALIESIN: I feel like there should be trading
cards.

SAM: So the white one's like Predator?

LAURA: Shut up! There's notes somewhere in here!

MATT: "Just be warned: fell one dragon, that might
make them nervous. Fell another and that's almost

"certain to bring retaliation."

TALIESIN: We were hoping to distract them.

MATT: "Well, the next wyrm you decide to fell will
probably be the start of this war."

TRAVIS: Can we ask, why would it bring
retaliation? How would they know it was us?

TALIESIN: We did sign the card.

MARISHA: We left our names.

LAURA: Maybe the next one we can sign as somebody
else.

TRAVIS: What if we don't sign it?

LIAM: Even if we don't, they probably are going to
get much more vindictive overall.

MARISHA: And just as much as we can scry on them,
they can scry on us. I'm sure they've been

watching us.

TALIESIN: I don't think they know where we are. I
think they know when we travel, I just don't think

they know where we are.

MATT: "Have any of the living ones seen you?"

LAURA: Have any what?

MATT: "Have any of the living ones seen you and
know you for who you are?"

TRAVIS: When we killed the first one, there were a
bunch of jewels in the wall and we saw a bunch of

eyeballs.

TALIESIN: He did not know our name, but he has
seen us.

LAURA: Raishan saw us, the white one saw us, all
of them saw us.

MATT: "Then it is very possible."

SAM: Wait a second, you just said no one knew we
were here, none of them knew we were here.

TALIESIN: Here.

SAM: They just attacked here. And we just got back
here.

LAURA: Gilmore was scrying on them. It took three
days for him to get here. That's how he knew.

SAM: Because Gilmore was scrying on them. Got it.
Not because we have a leak.

TALIESIN: We probably do. We should assume we have
a leak.

SAM: I'm going to blame Shaun.

TALIESIN: Is he Shaun now?

MATT: "You're more than welcome to."

SAM: Sorry! (chuckles)

MATT: He's sitting down, wiping his brow with this
really fine scarf.

MARISHA: Judging based on what happened in Emon,
we know that they have an insider, we just don't

know who yet.

SAM: They do? We know this?

TALIESIN: I would assume that there's nothing we
say that they don't know at this point.

LAURA: They struck during a political--

MARISHA: During a council meeting.

LAURA: Somebody has to be telling them things.

MARISHA: Someone probably very high up.

LAURA: It could be Raishan taking the form of a
human again, for all we know.

SAM: Who was there and lived? Besides us?

MATT: Jarett catches up, by the way. (panting) "Is
everyone all right?"

LAURA: Yes. How are the citizens? Did you get
everyone in there?

MATT: "Everyone seems to be safe and accounted
for. There was a lot of fear, of course, but

"elation, whatever you did." And he looks at you
and looks at Shaun. "Whatever you did, keep doing

"it, please."

TRAVIS: I insight check Jarett.

MATT: Make an insight check.

TRAVIS: Seven.

MATT: It's hard to read that fella. Slippery.

LIAM: Can I do an insight check on Asum?

MATT: You may.

LAURA: What are you doing?

SAM: Ooh, that was a Luck.

LIAM: First one was good anyway.

LAURA: Oh, you're just hoping? First one was
really good.

LIAM: Damn. I can choose whichever one I want.
21.

MATT: 21.

LAURA: About Jarett?! You're insighting Jarett?

SAM: Seeker Asum.

TALIESIN: Perhaps we should not have... assumed.

MARISHA: Hey, Travis! How is it you're on this
side of the table?

TRAVIS: Well I was looking for a Loot Crate. Have
you guys seen any Loot Crates?

SAM: Oh! Well I've got some of the great swag that
you can get in a Loot Crate. Why this shirt came

in one last week.

TRAVIS: That's incredible! How do I get one of
those?

SAM: You go to LootCrate.com/CriticalRole to
see your selection and then if you sign up, you

get three dollars off the first month, which is a
really good deal!

TALIESIN: Ironically when we played the game at
home this is exactly what we'd do.

MATT: Totally.

LIAM: Sam who are you talking to? You're facing a
potted plant.

SAM: I'm talking to Seeker Asum! He's a big
fanboy.

MATT: Gilmore stands up and catches the edge of
Vax's shoulder.

LIAM: Hey.

MATT: "All right, so, what's your plan? What's the
next order of business?"

LAURA: Get you a drink, I think.

MATT: "A drink would be great."

TALIESIN: I think we talk and drink.

LAURA: Yes. We need to talk about barricading
underground. Making it more secure.

MATT: "Come. I can definitely use that right
now."

You guys are led into the nearest open-- it
looks to be an unused tavern, but there are

drinks, ale and things that are at the ready.
There isn't much commerce currently happening in

the city, since right now everything's in survival
mode, so there's no exchange of money, you guys

are presented with drinks. The lanterns are lit on
the inside from other villagers that are just

happy to help. And the central table is set where
you all sit around and quietly have a few sips.

LIAM: While everyone's sitting, can I just pull
him over to a corner for a second?

MATT: Yeah.

LIAM: How are you doing, personally?

MATT: "Me?"

LIAM: Yeah.

MATT: "Wondrous! I'm doing great! (chuckles) I'm
exhausted."

LIAM: Shaun, I--

MATT: "I'll be fine."

LIAM: You sure?

MATT: "Yes, I'm fine."

LIAM: All right.

MATT: "It's been a long time since I put my energy
and talents towards anything beyond making shiny

"things. Feels nice to be helping others."

LIAM: Well, I feel we're seeing your true
talents.

MATT: "I'm at my wits' end with these. Do you want
to see true talents? You should ask Allura to show

"you what she's capable of when she gets back."

LIAM: She is pretty nifty.

MATT: (sighs heavily)

LIAM: Well, come on, come and have a drink.

MATT: And he like leans on you a bit and you both
make it back to the table. The rest of you--

SAM: This booze is okay, but Grog, I could really
use the finest wine I've ever had.

TRAVIS: Oh shit, hold on.

LAURA: We've got some fancy-ass bottles.

TRAVIS: I reach into the bag of holding and I grab
five expensive-ass bottles of wine.

LIAM: Holla!

MARISHA: Scanlan and I will share one.

SAM: Good idea.

LAURA: Just one bottle between the two of you?

SAM: We don't weigh very much.

MARISHA: No.

TALIESIN: I'm involved in this. This is exciting.

MATT: You guys scatter the wine amongst your
glasses. Drinks are had as you begin to discuss

the plan.

TALIESIN: Pour one for the landlord as well. He's
letting us drink our wine in his room.

MATT: Asum leans in. "All right. So. Vestiges.
Defenses. Allies, what's the next plan?

"What's the next--"

TRAVIS: Well, I've a question. If I were to call
somewhere a City of Brass, where would you think

that would be?

MATT: Asum goes, "There are cities that use brass
in parts of construction in Wildemount, that's as far--"

Gilmore leans forward and goes, "No, that's
in the Elemental Plane of Fire. That's a

"dangerous, terrible place that you should never
go."

TRAVIS: We were already there once, actually.

TALIESIN: Terrible dangerous places you should
never go are practically our middle name.

LAURA: We saw Thordak there, actually.

MATT: "Oh! Even more of a reason not to go!"

MARISHA: Well, he's here now, so Fire Plane's
probably safer!

TALIESIN: She's got a very fair point.

LAURA: Why do you ask, Grog?

TRAVIS: Well, look, the Plate of the Dawnmartyr is
in a City of Brass, but I don't know where that is.

LAURA: I bet that sounds something Pike would
like.

TRAVIS: Draconia is in Wildemount?

MATT: "Draconia is in Wildemount, yes."

TRAVIS: Right. And so is the big white fuck,
right?

TALIESIN: Yes. Are any of the Vestiges in
Wildemount?

TRAVIS: The City of Brass?

MATT: "Whereabouts are the Vestiges?"

LIAM: One at the bottom of the sea.

LAURA: One is in Marquet?

MARISHA: The City of Brass is in the Plane of
Fire. We've covered that.

SAM: It's not in Draconia? It's in the Plane of
Fire?

MARISHA: The city is in the Plane of Fire.

SAM: Correct. Where's Ank'Harel?

MARISHA: Ank'Harel is on the continent of-- what's
it's called?

MATT: Gilmore chuckles to himself, "Ank'Harel.
It's been awhile." And looks at--

MARISHA: What's the continent? I suddenly blanked
on it. You just said it.

MATT: Marquet.

MARISHA: Marquet. It's on the continent of
Marquet.

MATT: Ank'Harel is also where Jarett is from,
which is where you first heard. Gilmore smiles.

"It's where I grew up, or nearabouts, at least."

SAM: Where you grew up, Gilmore?

MATT: "Well, not in the city, a little ways out a
bit."

SAM: You're Marquatian?

MATT: "Originally, yes, but I've been living here
most of my life. Soon as I had the opportunity to

"leave-- It's a free plane here in Tal'Dorei and
all the shops I can muster... until they all got

"destroyed."

LAURA: Good times.

MATT: "It's fine. I'd made the bottom floors too
small anyway. More space. Next time."

LIAM: You ever want to revisit home?

MATT: "Maybe. Nah. I need to stay here and
maintain this."

LAURA: Yes you do. If you don't mind.

SAM: What about the endless maze of the Abyss?
That's another place that we're supposed to go.

MARISHA: Also another plane of existence.

MATT: "I don't know much about the Abyss, but I
know that it's probably the worst place ever."

LAURA: Abyssal. That's where demons come from.

TRAVIS: Worse than the Fire Plane?

MATT: "That's correct."

LAURA: That's the thing that killed Pike.

TRAVIS: Wait, isn't that where the rakshasa's
going to be?

MARISHA: That's in the Nine Hells.

LIAM: He's a devil.

TALIESIN: Ironically is somewhere else entirely.

LIAM: And I think we can table Meowmix for a
little bit. Somebody told us it takes a while.

LAURA: Months and months.

MARISHA: Months but we also don't want to wait
until--

LIAM: Not forever.

TRAVIS: Who's got a map?

SAM: I've got a map.

TRAVIS: Where's the Ozmit Sea?

TALIESIN: Before we even think of this, we should
see what we're-- I don't think we're going to

collect all of the Vestiges. We should see what
other Vestiges we think are going to be helpful.

SAM: It's like the Pacific Ocean.

TRAVIS: Which direction is it? Towards Draconia?

SAM: No. Draconia's across the Atlantic Ocean in
France.

MARISHA: But the Ozmit Sea is where the Water
Ashari reside. And I have to go there anyway. It's

also where Pike is very familiar. I'm pretty sure
that's the sea that she sailed?

LIAM: And the Vestige there is the staff?

LAURA: Whisper, right?

SAM: Whisper, the blade.

MARISHA: Whisper, the blade.

TRAVIS: Well, look, hey, so I have an idea, right.
Someone mentioned that the white dragon is very

vain and very savage. He's got like all those
wyverns around him. That's a little bit of a bitch

for us. We're usually good one dragon on all of
us. You got a whole gang, worse for us. So what

about if we played to his vanity, and maybe sent
him knocking on one of his Conclave brother's

doors. Maybe start a little beef that maybe's not
there.

SAM: How do we do that?

TRAVIS: I don't know, the idea just popped up. I'm
looking for your help and shit.

LIAM: He's a big picture man. Here's the detail
fellow.

TRAVIS: You know how tired I am right now?

LAURA: We're so tired.

TALIESIN: I think that we've been thinking about
this the wrong way. I think that we've been

treating this as a battle. And we have to start
treating this like a war, which is a very

different creature.

SAM: Are we guerrillas?

TALIESIN: We are absolutely not.

LIAM: Beret.

TRAVIS: Wolverines!

TALIESIN: We need to reinforce this city not as a
final stand, but as a place where there might be

survivors. Because if they come here, there's no
battle to be fought. It's just a loss.

LAURA: We need to take it--

MARISHA: Elsewhere.

MATT: At this point Jarett steps out from back of
the room and says, "The more time that goes by,

"the more chance there is that the battle, the war,
will be fought here. On our turf. The faster we

"move, the better chance we have of bringing it to
theirs, so let us not dilly-dally."

MARISHA: You mentioned about having our own mole
at one point. Our own inside man.

TRAVIS: Yeah. Scanlan.

SAM: I'm not going to volunteer myself as a slave
to the dragon.

TRAVIS: Keep thinking about it.

LIAM: You are a sexy dinosaur.

SAM: I'm considering it.

TRAVIS: You'll be the Hercules Mulligan of Vox
Machina.

ALL: Hercules Mulligan!

TALIESIN: I would like to talk to some of the
magic users about installing some sort of-- or

perhaps helping me install a non-magical dragon
raid signal so that the population knows to be

quiet, and knows to quietly go underground. In the
event of the next fly-by.

MATT: They all look at each other and Gilmore
nods. "That's actually, I wouldn't say

"rudimentary, but it's definitely within my skill
set."

TALIESIN: Would triggering it possibly alert them
to our existence? Does it make holding up the

shield--

MATT: "Not if I can maintain it underneath the
barrier."

SAM: Does the barrier block sound and visuals?

MATT: "It should."

SAM: And is there any way that we can help you
make this barrier more permanent and stronger?

MATT: "I don't know. This was crafted for this
reason. This isn't a long standing existing

"incantation. This was crafted through the minds of
Drake Thunderbrand and Allura and myself and

"Pike's aid. This is a new magic, it's
experimental, and to be perfectly honest, I'm very

"glad it succeeded because I was--"

LAURA: Just guessing?

MATT: "Essentially."

LIAM: Also, Gilmore, as a sidebar, what about that
black ball beneath the city? Has anything been

learned of it?

MATT: "We've been a bit distracted."

LIAM: That's what I thought.

TALIESIN: I would like to put it to use.

LAURA: Wait, what?

TALIESIN: We're at war.

LAURA: We can't move it.

TALIESIN: We're not going to move it.

SAM: We're going inside it.

TALIESIN: I want to put the private council table
in the room with it.

SAM: In the room where it happens?

LAURA: So they can't scry into the room, it
cancels all magic.

TALIESIN: So no glamor will survive, no magic will
survive, no trick can be allowed.

MATT: "I love your mind, Percy. Have I told you
that? I love your mind. I love it."

TALIESIN: That's probably a bad sign, but thank
you.

MATT: "We'll do that immediately. It sounds like a
grand plan."

Asum says, "Not a worry. We'll do that
immediately."

SAM: We'll just have to Seeker Asum that it
happened?

(laughter)

TALIESIN: We should move quickly. We should pick a
couple of Vestiges and move quickly, collect them.

Start finding more allies, move quickly. But we
should not dally too long.

MARISHA: And I agree, we might not be able to wait
to get them all before we start taking on dragons.

We might want to do both.

MATT: Jarett says, "If you're looking to go to the
Ozmit Sea, you'll probably need a ship of some

"kind. It's quite a far travel and that distance as
well and the docks on the west coast right now

"are, well they're locked down at Emon."

TALIESIN: Could Cabal's Ruin--

LAURA: How long is the travel to Marquet?

MATT: "Travel by boat, across the Ozmit, maybe
about a week, a week and a half. Skyship, maybe

"half as long."

SAM: Airship. Airship. Airship?!

MATT: Gilmore actually steps in and is like,
"Technically, I have a teleportation sigil outside

"the city. I could probably just get you there."

SAM: Wait, to go to where? Marquet?

LIAM: Walking is really good for the health
though.

MARISHA: And first level characters, which we are
not.

SAM: Hold on. Before we decide that Marquet is the
thing.

TALIESIN: It's Cabal's Ruin, correct? We're going
to search for Cabal's Ruin.

TRAVIS: Are we at all just forgetting the fact
that Draconia is lying in ruins?

TALIESIN: We don't have time.

LAURA: No, it's not about time. The dragon is
sitting on top of Draconia.

SAM: So we know where to find him to kill him.

LAURA: Unless we know how to take on that dragon,
we can't save anyone.

SAM: wE've killed dragons before.

TALIESIN: I will feel better with one or two more
Vestiges in our pocket.

LIAM: By the skin of our teeth, Scanlan. By the
skin of its gut.

TALIESIN: We got lucky.

SAM: I like Grog's idea. Is there a way to explore
that any further?

MARISHA: Pitting the dragons against each other?

SAM: Yes!

TALIESIN: I think it's a great idea worth
exploring.

LIAM: Seeker Asum is on it. He said that he was
going to--

SAM: Seeker Asum is great, but we're the best in
the business. I wouldn't leave our plan A to

someone not us.

LAURA: Seeker Asum is telling people that this
city has been magicked away.

MATT: Asum is also still at the table.

MARISHA: Yeah, he's right there.

TALIESIN: We're drunk, we will talk about you 
in third person as much as we want.

LAURA: We're just reiterating the things that you
told us you were going to say.

MATT: "That's all right."

TALIESIN: We figured you would speak up if you had
issue.

LAURA: Plus it's really fun to say your name.

MATT: "Never heard it before, I assure you."

TRAVIS: How far away is Draconia from here? Travel
wise?

MATT: "Well, my usual travel to Wildemount is
across the northern channel here. I'd say you're

"looking at about two weeks of travel by ship
across the Lucidian Ocean."

MARISHA: Or we can always teleport. I can Tree
Stride. I can always Tree Stride.

SAM: Have you been to Draconia?

MARISHA: I can scry and look at a tree.

MATT: Tree Stride is a short distance. You mean
Transport via Plants.

MARISHA: Whatever. They all sound the same. I can
scry, look at a tree, and then we go through that tree.

SAM: If there's any trees left.

LAURA: There's definitely at least--

MARISHA: I'm hoping there's a tree on that
continent.

LIAM: Are we talking though about how scrying is a
little dangerous right now?

MARISHA: When you're scrying on dragon.

LAURA: When you're scrying on a tree.

MARISHA: Yeah, the tree doesn't know it's being
spied on.

TRAVIS: Doesn't Draconia have an army there? If
there are any survivors, anyone we can bring back

to Whitestone, shouldn't we be accumulating those
people?

TALIESIN: I think if there's a dragon sitting on
top of them, removing people from him is--

TRAVIS: We're sneaky, we're so sneaky!

LAURA: Are we sneaky?

TRAVIS: Yeah! Pike's not even here.

LAURA: You have your memories of the Feywild, do
you remember sloshing around in that black sludge?

Very loudly?

MARISHA: Do you remember us walking into the town
center to kill Kevdak? That wasn't sneaky.

TRAVIS: No, no that was personal.

TALIESIN: Grog, I think you're thinking of a
battle we can win, as opposed to a war we're

losing.

TRAVIS: Yeah, no, look I'm not trying to pick a
fight with a dragon, I'm just going to make sure

that dragonborn are there and we can help them.

TALIESIN: We can help them by killing the dragon.

LIAM: Yes.

TRAVIS: Wow.

TALIESIN: Vax is agreeing with me.

MATT: "Actually that's pretty sound. If you manage
to defeat the dragon there, you'll probably gather

"the survivors and have them join the cause against
Emon. If you have means of transporting them.

"Remember, once a dragon is down, it's--"

LAURA: It's on.

MATT: "It's on."

SAM: Grog is the best thinker.

MARISHA: Yeah. We pull the trigger on one, we pull
the trigger on all of them.

LAURA: I can't believe if we fight one that means
we have to fight--

TRAVIS: Well, listen. Again, I'm not trying to
kill the white dragon.

TALIESIN: What is the white dragon going to do--

TRAVIS: I want him to go pick a fight with the
other dragons.

LAURA: How are we going to do that, though?

LIAM: We're working on that as a side venture.
What are we going to do there to make that

happen?

MARISHA: We can't really stroll up to it and be
like--

TRAVIS: You guys don't know how to pick a fight?
You honestly can't brainstorm one way to pick a fight?

MARISHA: We are very good at picking fights. It's
getting the dragons to pick fights on others.

SAM: We can probably plan a ruse.

LAURA: Oh, and how would you do it, Grog?

TRAVIS: I would talk mad shit to the white dragon
on behalf of the green dragon. I would rep the

green dragon.

LAURA: Oh my god, Grog, he will never see through
that! That's brilliant.

LIAM: You are really strong. That's the end of it,
I have nothing else to say.

TRAVIS: I'm just saying, I feel like an
opportunity's being wasted here.

TALIESIN: I think an opportunity's being tabled
briefly.

MARISHA: We've got to think about it.

TALIESIN: I don't think this is nearly as time
sensitive.

TRAVIS: Fine. Someone else do the thinking.

MARISHA: Breeding hostility between the two is
something that could take weeks, which we don't have.

TALIESIN: Well, we could start it. It's also
something other people can do while we do other things.

LIAM: Yes. Delegate.

MARISHA: But how? It literally involves going to
one dragon and saying: Hey, did you hear what that

other dragon said about you? That's all I got.

TALIESIN: Well, there are other ways to do it. In
traditional warfare, you can do things like cause

damage to the property of one dragon and leave
scant evidence that the other dragon, or one of

the dragon's people, was somehow responsible. Have
a raiding, somehow get wyverns to raid near--

MARISHA: Wait, hang on. That first thing you
said.

TALIESIN: Yes. It's the easiest level.

MARISHA: I think I might have an idea. Okay, we
know the white dragon is vain.

LAURA: Right? We know that?

MATT: All dragons to an extent are vain. It's part
of the nature of the chromatics.

SAM: White dragon loves the thrill of the hunt.

MATT: The white dragon is the most comparably
primal. They're all in various stages of

hyperintelligence. The white dragon is the one
that's the most... beastlike.

TALIESIN: If the white dragon is a hunter, the
easiest way to incite damage is to sneak into the

city and start mauling and killing Draconians that
are left over, and just leaving bodies everywhere

that he wasn't responsible for.

MARISHA: What?!

TALIESIN: That is the sort of decisions we're
going to start having to make.

LAURA: What if somebody can Polymorph into a
little green dragon or something?

MARISHA: Yeah, you went to 11 there on let's start
continuing the genocide.

LAURA: Fuck shit up as a dragon and leave evidence
behind as a green dragon.

SAM: I've seen the green dragon. Raishan?

MATT: You have seen the dragon.

SAM: How big?

MATT: Gargantuan. And you cannot Polymorph into
dragons. You can only transform into beasts.

SAM: I understand.

MATT: Fairly large, yeah. I'd say probably--
Raishan is the smallest of the dragons you saw,

but even at the smallest of them, is still a
good 30 feet to the shoulder.

SAM: I could do that.

LIAM: Gather all the papier-mâché you have in the
city.

SAM: I could do something pretty close to that.

TRAVIS: I bet you could do a lot of incredible
things.

SAM: Are you Tony Robbins?

(laughter)

TALIESIN: I think this is a conversation that can
continue through Marquet. I don't think we're

going to come up with the best idea tonight.

MARISHA: But we need to get something started.
Here's what we learned.

SAM: At dawn.

MARISHA: At dawn we drink some more. We learned
that Thordak is enslaving sculptors to build his

image all around Emon. What we have learned is it
seems that each of the dragons have picked a city,

a domain. Maybe this domain was part of the
bargain to join Thordak's cause. Help me, you get

your own city.

TALIESIN: A reasonable and astute observation,
yes.

MARISHA: So I bet the white dragon would be real
pissed off if statues of Thordak started popping

up around Draconia.

LAURA: Or the green dragon.

MARISHA: Or the green dragon.

TRAVIS: Or maybe even statues where Umbrasyl's
nest was.

TALIESIN: Let's pick a dragon.

LAURA: Vorugal is the white dragon?

SAM: Raishan is the green. Here's the problem with
goading Vorugal the white to find and kill Raishan

the green. No one knows where Raishan the green
is, including Vorugal.

LAURA: How do you know Vorugal doesn't know?

SAM: Because Raishan's the shapeshifter, and no
one knows where she is, including Gilmore, who's

been scrying for a week to try to find her.

LAURA: Yeah, but the white dragon might have some
way to communicate.

TRAVIS: Do we know how they communicate?

LIAM: Yes, we do. There were some baubles in a
wall in Krieg's secret cave.

LAURA: They have other balls, right?

TRAVIS: Gilmore, Asum, do either of you have a
theory on how they communicate?

MATT: Gilmore looks to Asum. "I have not been to
any of their bases. Asum, you've been watching Thordak."

He looks back. "Within his domain in the Cloudtop,
he has... apparently an overhead airplane."

LAURA: It's very loud.

MATT: Trust me, it was strange. "He has a number
of various spies that are sworn to him that act as

"his network of information to and from the
Cloudtop and his throne of black glass and molten

"rock. He does have singular pillars placed around
that contain four orbs that he would speak into on

"occasion."

MARISHA: And didn't we see something similar in
Umbrasyl's and when we killed the blue?

LAURA: We saw orbs in Umbrasyl's?

MARISHA: Yeah, remember, it cracked and it was
like, I'm coming for you! And we were like, we

don't know what that means! And we ignored it.

LAURA: That was in Brimscythe's.

LIAM: Did we see that in the black?

TRAVIS: They were broken already.

MATT: Yeah. They were already shattered.

LAURA: He shattered them. Fuck.

SAM: Why did he shatter them?

LAURA: So that we wouldn't be able to scry on
anyone else. Or he was pissed!

SAM: He was pissed at the other dragons, maybe.

LIAM: But it's not safe to assume-- Asum, sorry--
that they're not in communication. We have to

assume that they are. I'm so sorry.

MATT: "It's all right. It's not like my childhood
friend Purvon."

(laughter)

TALIESIN: There is a thought. This is a very good
idea. You've got a very good idea.

SAM: What's the idea?

MARISHA: I said we start planting statues of
Thordak or Raishan in other dragons' territories.

Ultimately, though, what we need is we need
someone who knows the dragons' weaknesses. We need

to know what pushes their buttons.

SAM: We know what pushes their buttons.

TALIESIN: We need to know what pushes the reset
button. Why am I speaking in video game metaphor?

LIAM: What?

TALIESIN: Nothing. Drink.

SAM: We can throw up some statues and cause some
havoc, but if they have these orbs that

communicate with each other, then the white can
call Thordak and say: Hey, what's up with these

statues? And Thordak can say: No, it's not me.

TALIESIN: Not statues. Idols. Small images of the
white dragon for worship.

LIAM: You're gambling on jealousy.

TALIESIN: Start hiding them in places. If we start
seeding them, especially in Emon, as if he is

trying to get people to worship him in other
cities as well, silently, quietly underneath--

SAM: We'll make t-shirts that say Team Vorugal.

TALIESIN: We just have to make sure that we don't
use the stone from here.

MARISHA: Well, because we know that Thordak is
definitely vain.

TALIESIN: And this will piss him off. And if he
says what are you doing, I don't know anything

about this.

LAURA: Yeah, he would deny it. Of course he would
deny it.

MARISHA: And we're assuming-- sorry-- that they'll
ask instead of jumping to conclusions.

TALIESIN: I like it.

LAURA: Even if he jumps to conclusions, he would
be pissed.

SAM: But we know that Thordak is a total asshole--
Sorry.

(laughter)

SAM: So we know he'll be pissed off, more or
less.

MATT: His scarred eye twitches for a moment.

MARISHA: And we wonder why people hate us.

MATT: Asum leans into the conversation and goes,
"We have many crafters and artisans that are

"within the grasp of the Clasp as well, within
Emon. We can begin to have these made and

"scattered throughout the various offerings brought
to the center of the city."

TALIESIN: Little shrines, hidden in ruins.

MATT: "I like this."

MARISHA: Hashtag Team Vorugal.

MATT: "We can make this happen." You can make that
happen. Hashtag Team Vorugal.

TALIESIN: I still will admit that Cabal's Ruin is
one of the Vestiges I feel would be-- and not just

because I would like to use it.

MARISHA: Is Ank'harel and the Ozmit Sea in the
same area? Can we hit one on our way to the

other?

MATT: The Ozmit Sea is in between Tal'Dorei and--
from your perspective, it's Tal'Dorei and Marquet,

and the Ozmit Sea is what's in between.

TALIESIN: So we could do a triple.

MARISHA: We could do a triple. Because I have to
get to the Water Ashari at some point.

TALIESIN: And that's very important, because we
need them on our side.

SAM: Between what and what?

TALIESIN: Ozmit Sea, so it's over here.

SAM: It's between what and who?

MATT: The Ozmit Sea is between Marquet and
Tal'Dorei.

SAM: Is this Tal'Dorei?

MARISHA: We're on Tal'Dorei.

SAM: So Marquet is Japan.

MATT: More Australia.

SAM: Got it. Is this world round? Can we go the
other way?

TALIESIN: Actually, this world is shaped like a
d20, so we're on the flat part at the five.

SAM: Can't go the other way?

MATT: You could eventually get there. It is
round.

LAURA: Would I know how fast dragons can actually
fly? If it's a two-week trip to get to Draconia

from where we are--

MATT: Two weeks via ship. Ocean ship.

LAURA: Okay. If they were flying, how fast could
they get there, potentially?

TRAVIS: I'm only saying, maybe it's empty, right?

MARISHA: What is?

TRAVIS: Draconia.

MATT: I'm going to make some mathematics here, if
you'll excuse me.

TRAVIS: I'm only saying, if they were just here--

SAM: But we could bamf there right now.

LAURA: Check it out and get out before they get
back.

TRAVIS: Get people out, do recon, whatever.

SAM and MARISHA: Plant some seeds.

LAURA: They've probably left a good amount of army
there to keep people under control. We'd have to

get in and out in a couple of hours.

SAM: And what would our mission be?

LIAM: Dump a couple of statues.

LAURA: We don't have them.

TALIESIN: Let other people do that.

SAM: Wait. What about, instead of dumping statues,
we find these orbs? We find his lair, we find his

orbs, and we call Thordak and we do a voice like:
Yo, Thordak! You're a dickhead! I'm going to come

kill you! Or we just smash them.

TALIESIN: I don't know why everyone's so excited
about the notion of pissing off the dragons to the

point at which they all come here, but it is a way
to go.

SAM: They don't know we're here.

TALIESIN: They know we're here.

TRAVIS: I'm just pointing out an opportunity where
there is one.

SAM: That's true.

MATT: A few days.

LAURA: It would take them a few days to get
there?

TRAVIS: A few days? We would have a whole fucking
day!

MARISHA: What time is it?

MATT: At this point in time, it's mid-afternoon,
evening.

SAM: We have to rest.

LIAM: Percival, even just for intelligence, even
if it was brief, even to see what is going on there.

TALIESIN: We have to make sure that we can get out
immediately, and we also have to agree that if

things start looking too iffy, we run.

MARISHA: I have an idea.

SAM: You have the best ideas.

MARISHA: Thank you.

SAM: Lay it on me.

MARISHA: Can you Seeming us to all look like
lizard army members?

SAM: Tomorrow. And we'll look like us, except
vaguely like lizard people.

TRAVIS: Why not wyverns?

SAM: First of all, the lizard army, is that
different from wyverns? So they're just scaly

creepers. I can do that.

LAURA: Have you seen the lizard people?

SAM: No, but I'll see them when we get there.

LAURA: Okay.

MATT: You've come across a few of the lizardfolk.
They attacked you in Emon. They were on the

wyverns. They're humanoid. They're a little larger
than one of your half-elf companions or Percy.

MARISHA: We fought them on the airship, too,
right?

MATT: No, those were bandits. You fought wyverns.

SAM: We could be lizard people, for sure.

LAURA: Wait, what?

TALIESIN: We could look like lizard people, and it
would trick anybody who wasn't a dragon. And if

the dragon came, we would be fucked. That would be
the end. That would be game over.

SAM: (singing) We could be lizard people!

TALIESIN: I'm going to go on record as saying I do
not think this is the right move.

LIAM: What do you think is the right move?

SAM: He wants to go to Marquet to find some cloak
that may or may not help us in a week.

TALIESIN: Will help us. Getting three more
Vestiges, two more Vestiges, just a little bit

more power before starting to play chess again.

LAURA: Really the only point of going there
would be reconnaissance. That's it. No fighting.

TRAVIS: When else are we going to know for sure?

TALIESIN: There's an ancient dwarven saying, and
I'm trying to remember where I heard it, but it

goes somewhere along the lines of, it's never a
three-hour tour. That's my fear.

TRAVIS: Yeah, I know an ancient dwarven one that
says no risk...

SAM: That's it.

TALIESIN: Your mind is a grandfather clock, you
know that.

TRAVIS: Thank you.

TALIESIN: It's correct twice a day, easily.

SAM: If we go, what is our mission?

TALIESIN: Thank you.

MARISHA: To get as many innocents out as we can.

LAURA: No. That sounds wonderful, but if we get
people out, they're going to know something

happened.

MARISHA: I figured if we find good fighters once
again, and do our tree, our teleport thing--

SAM: We can get 13 people out. That's it.

MARISHA: But it could be the 13 people that could
change the tide.

TALIESIN: This is not going to be a fight of 13
people.

SAM: We had a group of 50 goliaths, and they were
all killed instantly.

MARISHA: That's what I'm saying.

LAURA: Plus, if we're lizard people, the survivors
aren't going to be wanting--

TALIESIN: They're going to be wondering who we
are, first off.

LAURA: They're going to be afraid of us.

SAM: I would only want to go there if we had a
distinct plan to disrupt or trick or steal.

TRAVIS: Disrupting communications is a great
tactic.

TALIESIN: We're not going to be able to disrupt
communication.

TRAVIS: You don't think we're going to make it to
the jewels and smashy-smash?

TALIESIN: No.

MARISHA: I don't think that's a good idea.

SAM: And I slice the dragon's throat! And I say, I
am victorious!

LIAM: That sounds like a plan. Let's go.

MATT: So what are you guys doing?

TALIESIN: Tightening up. We're going to go. What
are we going for?

SAM: Smash the orbs.

MARISHA: Well, here's something else I want to put
into perspective. If I scry and teleport us to the

black dragon's lair, I can do one more scry, and
then I would burn my seventh level spell to get us

there again, and then I'd be tapped out.

LAURA: So we wouldn't be able to bamf out.

MARISHA: We wouldn't be able to bamf out that day.
We'd be staying the night.

SAM: But I can get us a safe place to stay for the
night, no matter where we are.

TALIESIN: But it means this is not a one-day, this
is a three-day mission.

MARISHA: I could not teleport us. It depends on
how many times. I've got two teleports, so I can

teleport us there and teleport us out, but we'd be
doing it from here.

TALIESIN: We teleport to the black dragon's lair,
we sleep overnight, teleport in, teleport out. And

then sleep overnight, teleport either to
Whitestone or to Marquet.

SAM: Can you teleport today? Or are you done?

MATT: You can only use that once per day, though,
right?

MARISHA: I used Plane Shift. I didn't use
Transport Via Plants. Yes. Wait. No. I Moved

Earth. I can't do it today. It has to be tomorrow.
And if that's the case, it's tomorrow, then we

lose that two-day grace period. Unless we go right
now and sleep overnight in Draconia and start

first thing in the morning.

TALIESIN: And risk a very reasonable reason that
they would know where we are.

MATT: As far as I know, Plane Shift can't teleport
you on the same plane. It brings you specifically

to another plane of existence.

MARISHA: Yeah. I'm saying I cast Plane Shift from
the Feywild to here. That's all I'm saying. But I

used that, and that's a seventh level spell.

SAM: So if we go to Draconia tonight, if we want
to sleep in the mansion, we can't, because I

changed his memory.

LAURA: Oh fuck.

SAM: So we would have to sleep out in the open as
lizard people.

LAURA: Nope.

LIAM: Too many negatives now.

LAURA: This is danger zone.

MARISHA: We're getting a lot of cons. There's not
so many pros.

TALIESIN: We need to sleep anyway, because we're
exhausted.

TRAVIS: Oh man. I can find all sorts of problems
with a situation if I look hard enough.

TALIESIN: That is so astute. It's 12:00. My god,
he had a thought.

TRAVIS: Opportunity. Honestly. There's a dragon's
perch, and he is vacated, and it will probably

never happen again as far as we know.

TALIESIN: I disagree. I think the next time they
come to attack and kill us, it will be vacated.

TRAVIS: Cool. While they're killing Whitestone
because we didn't take advantage of this moment,

then we'll go to Draconia.

TALIESIN: I agree. I legitimately agree.

LAURA: We can sleep and wake up in the morning and
teleport there.

TALIESIN: We do have to sleep, regardless. There's
no getting around sleep.

LAURA: We can't fucking go there when we haven't
slept, Grog. We'll all die.

TALIESIN: We can't actually get there right now.

MARISHA: There's also no guarantee that they're
going straight back there. Maybe they're heading

somewhere else. They were heading with an army to
somewhere. It's probably not a city they've

already conquered.

TALIESIN: They were heading southeast.

MATT: Southeast is what you saw, yes.

SAM: That's where they live.

TALIESIN: So they're probably heading back home.

MARISHA: Balls. Then where did they come from?
What were they doing?

LIAM: They were fishing.

TALIESIN: They thought that we might be here, and
they took a quick look around, which is why I

don't want to make any more noise around here.

SAM: Let's sleep.

TALIESIN: I'm going to go to the barkeep.

MATT: There is no barkeep here. This tavern has
been opened just for you guys to be served. There

is no current owner here. Most everyone who helped
you open this are yourselves and a couple of

civilians that were just there.

TALIESIN: Is there a civilian waitress?

MATT: There is no waitress. There are a couple
civilians outside, but as soon as you guys started

talking, all the civilians left the room.

LAURA: They're so nice.

TALIESIN: There's no barmaid at all?

LIAM: Your nobility is showing, Percival.

SAM: I need a young boy.

(laughter)

LIAM: These white gloves are sullied. I need a new
set of white gloves, please.

TALIESIN: They're shooting mittens, and you're
so uncouth.

SAM: I have an Unseen Servant. Do you need a
servant? I make an Unseen Servant for him.

MATT: There's a wisp of air.

SAM: Command him as you see fit.

TALIESIN: Never mind. This is what I get for
trying to be nice to anybody. I've learned my

lesson.

SAM: I tip the Unseen Servant.

MATT: You toss the coin and it (clinks) to the
ground.

TRAVIS: I pounce on it.

MATT: You (soft impact) into this weird cluster of
air. It's pushing your beard hair back, and your

mouth is full of all that air pushing into it as
you reach into the Unseen Servant, grab the coin,

and pull it out.

TRAVIS: Yeah.

MATT: Well done. You got a gold.

TALIESIN: We'll sleep for now. We'll wake up in
the morning, and we'll either go in one direction

or the other.

LAURA: Good plan, guys. Good plan.

MARISHA: We came up with nothing.

TALIESIN: That's so not true. We came up with a
lot. We just have to sleep and then make a

decision based on what the world looks like in the
morning.

LIAM: Dream about a cloak, Percival. Maybe we can
get you a cloak.

TALIESIN: That cloak sounds useful.

MARISHA: All right, let's sleep. Let's go to the
castle.

MATT: You guys find your way to the castle.

TALIESIN: As a side, I want to grab Vex for a
quick walk on the way to the castle. I want to go

by the cemetery. Has it been worked on, by the
way? I suppose I'll find out.

LIAM: You did say Vex, right?

TALIESIN: Vax.

LIAM: You said Vex.

TALIESIN: Vax. I've been drinking. I've not even
been drinking, I've been pretend drinking.

MATT: All right. You grab him.

TALIESIN: I have something to show you.

LIAM: What is it?

TALIESIN: You'll like it. Well, I don't know if
you'll like it. I don't know what you like. I'm

going to take him to the cemetery, to the crypt.
The title I gave your sister doesn't come with

much, but it does come with one, at the moment,
tiny plot of land, on which a crypt sits. This was

the resting place of the father and grandfather
and assorted family members of the man you killed

the first night we came here.

LIAM: You want my sister to live in a mausoleum?

TALIESIN: No. I want something else to live in a
mausoleum. This is actually for you. Open it. I go and I

light the two little torches on the side. This is
very traditional, and it should open. Do you trust me?

LIAM: Uh...

TALIESIN: Good answer. I'll go in first.

MATT: Percy enters the building.

LIAM: I follow.

MATT: Okay. As you enter the mausoleum, the gentle
flickering of torchlight that was lit by Percy

shows the interior, though it is low-lit
partially, and your darkvision does catch you.

What was once a relatively decent mausoleum seems
to have been gutted, retrofit, and now you see

standing before you, is a mostly constructed
shrine to the Raven Queen.

TALIESIN: I figured it would be a good idea. I've
had my fill of gods, but I'm not so foolish to

think that we do not need them still. This is here
when you need it.

LIAM: I am having trouble.

TALIESIN: Me, too. I do not want to die who I am.
I would like to live long enough to be someone

else. I think you understand that.

LIAM: I've been really angry at you.

TALIESIN: I've been encouraging it.

LIAM: I don't know if it's entirely fair, but I
can't shake it. I don't know that I'm willing to

let go of it yet.

TALIESIN: Good. I certainly do not deserve it yet.
I don't know if I ever will. But I can't think of

anything else to do with my time on earth right
now, other than... this. I am finished with gods.

They will not help me. Maybe you will.

LIAM: Percy.

TALIESIN: Yes?

LIAM: I've always liked you. From the beginning,
I've always liked you.

TALIESIN: I've always liked you, too.

LIAM: You are intelligent and charming.

TALIESIN: Thank you.

LIAM: And good in a tight spot.

TALIESIN: It's the open spaces where I suffer. The
tight spots, I feel very good about. It's the open

spaces. This is a very tight spot.

LIAM: I would like to be friends with you again. I
just have a condition.

TALIESIN: Yes?

LIAM: My penchant for forgiveness with my sister's
welfare is razor thin.

TALIESIN: I know.

LIAM: If you can respect that, then we don't have
a problem.

TALIESIN: Do you know why I titled your sister?

LIAM: I have some idea.

TALIESIN: She thought she was missing something
that-- and I use this term loosely-- ordinary

people... We have a magic we use, to convince
people that we deserve the things we get, those of

us who were born this way. It was treating her
unfairly and limiting her ability to see her world

for what it was worth, and it was a simple and
easy fix. She is going to wake up one morning--

not yet, but soon-- and realize that money will
not make her happy, and that trying to please that

awful father will not make her happy. The first
step in that is realizing that he's weak, and

there's no better way to do that than being better
titled than your parents.

LIAM: I don't agree with that line of thinking.

TALIESIN: I know. But you are not her. And I'm not
saying it's the truth, but it is what I believe is

in her heart. I think perhaps that might lift. I
will never hurt her. I will never hurt anybody

intentionally, especially not you, any more than I
already have. In return, I ask: never take your

eyes off me. Never trust me. And that is the best
friend that you can be.

LIAM: I will recommit to that same promise I
made.

TALIESIN: You can like me. I would love that. And
in fact, I hope that I can earn your like.

LIAM: I do like you.

TALIESIN: I just never want to earn your trust.

LIAM: Well, then it's your lucky day.

TALIESIN: A gentle title will suit your sister
well. I'm leaving.

MATT: Percy walks out. You're left alone in the
silence and darkness, looking at the small shrine

before you.

LIAM: I'm on board. You have me. Whatever you
will. I have something I need to take care of,

which you know, and I hope you will help me with
it. But I do not take your gift lightly. You have

me. I close the door again and head back to town.

MATT: Back into town. You guys quietly keep your
distance in your walk, find your way back to the

castle to your respective rooms, and an evening's
rest takes you all.

MARISHA: Do I hear Vax go to his room?

MATT: Are you waiting to hear Vax go to his room?

MARISHA: I'm waiting to hear Vax go to his room.

MATT: Actually, knowing Vax, you wouldn't hear
anything.

(laughter)

LIAM: 30.

MATT: You wait for a long time, and no sound comes
to your ears.

MARISHA: I go to sleep.

MATT: All right. And with that, as you guys rest
for the night, we're going to take a quick

bathroom break. We'll be back here in a few
minutes. We had a friend come and deliver a gift

to Laura, which you can see presented on the table
now. It is a replica that someone, Kiki Day, made

this awesome prop replica of Fenthras.

LAURA: I wish you guys could see it up close.
Obviously, we're going to send a picture on

Twitter so you guys can see it, but it lights up
different colors!

MATT: Design based on David Rodriguez's concept
art for Fenthras.

LAURA: It's got Elvish for "protector" and
"growth."

MATT: That's so badass.

LAURA: Did I say it right? Protector, not
protection? Protector is right!

MARISHA: Protector and growth.

LAURA: Say what?!

MATT: That is awesome.

LAURA: Thank you so much!

MATT: Thank you, Kiki!

LAURA: You're unbelievable.

TRAVIS: Should we put it down?

MATT: All right. There we go.

LAURA: Lean it up against the table.

MATT: So. As you guys come to consciousness the
next morning, the storm has come in now--

LAURA: By the way, I got terrible sleep. I
replayed everything Saundor said in my head a

hundred times.

MATT: Make a general wisdom saving throw.

LIAM: You're paralyzed from fear.

LAURA: I am terrible! Wisdom saving throw?
12.

MATT: 12? Okay. Your evening is hard-pressed. You
do manage to get a full night's sleep; you do not

suffer any exhaustion. You do manage to get rest, though
the nightmares do come in memory of your last

encounter at the Feywild, and Saundor's words
still swimming around in your head, finding cracks

in your sense of self. But you still are stalwart
against the choice you made and the friends that

were at your back. And as you all come to
consciousness, the sound of rain outside of the

castle against the exterior stone greets you with
the morning. You can smell the fresh rain in the

air, and eventually come down to find breakfast
prepared, a meal earned.

TALIESIN: Not chicken.

MATT: Not chicken, no. This is eggs, fruits. A
classic Whitestone breakfast. Chicken is

available, but strangely untouched.

LAURA: Baked beans. Tell me there's baked beans!

TALIESIN: The thick, single-slab bacon.

LIAM: Blood pudding.

MARISHA: Basically an Irish breakfast.

MATT: There are a few farms here, most are in the
surrounding fields south of the city. It's good.

It's fresh.

TALIESIN: The rain is good. It will mean that
they'll have an easier time figuring out the water

level while they're digging out beneath the Sun
Tree and making sure that it's secure. I love this

weather.

SAM: Well? To Marquet or to Draconia? What's it
going to be? Should we vote?

TALIESIN: An attempt at an object of power or an
attempt at friends in power?

SAM: Which is which?

TALIESIN: Draconia has friends in power.

MARISHA: Speaking of friends, we should probably
check up on ours.

TALIESIN: (long sigh) That is true. We haven't
heard anything, but that is true.

MARISHA: We haven't heard anything about him.

LAURA: It's terrifying.

MARISHA: I know.

SAM: He's probably okay.

TRAVIS: Who are we talking about?

(laughter)

SAM: Jarett.

TRAVIS: Oh.

SAM: Our only friend in Draconia.

TALIESIN: I personally would assume that Tiberius
would either be on his way to one of the two

cities, if he were so inclined. And if he had
survived. And if he wasn't working in the city

itself to keep it functioning.

MARISHA: He's hard-headed enough. So all of those
things are very true.

TALIESIN: And again, we're at war. This is not a
battle. We do not win by going to Draconia. We do

not win by going to Marquet. We win months from
now.

MARISHA: You're starting to make less and less
sense, Percy.

TALIESIN: No! I'm making perfect sense.

LIAM: Part of the traditional Whitestone breakfast
is--

LAURA: A rambling de Rolo.

TALIESIN: Breakfast needs things to live.

(laughter)

LIAM: I think you got that backwards?

SAM: Whitestone continental breakfast. Two eggs,
rambling tirade.

(laughter)

LAURA: Vote, then?

LIAM: Vote.

TALIESIN: I'm all right with a vote.

SAM: All right, all in favor of going to Marquet
to find a Vestige that will maybe give us some

more power that we need to kill a dragon, say
aye!

TALIESIN and LIAM: Aye.

SAM: All in favor of going to Draconia, where we
don't really have a great plan but I think we're

going to go try to fuck up a dragon's lair and
maybe rescue five people and probably die as

lizard people, say aye.

LAURA, TRAVIS, and SAM: Aye.

MARISHA: Aye.

LAURA: I've changed my mind. I want to go to
Marquet now.

SAM: Three to three.

LAURA: Sorry. Oh shit! I didn't mean to fuck that
up. Trinket, what's your vote?

TALIESIN: Hold on, let's see if Ashley texts in
the next ten minutes.

MATT: Three versus three. Are you going leave it
up to the dice, being a game of DND?

SAM: Let's do it.

MARISHA: Where's that coin we have?

TALIESIN: I have it. I have it right here. Yeah.

LIAM: You could also do one to ten and 11 to 20.

TALIESIN: One or 20. Ready?

SAM: Wait, we're just doing one flip?

LAURA: Yeah!

SAM: No. What?!

TALIESIN: Yes. It's flipped!

LAURA: What is what?

MARISHA: Okay! 20 is Marquet and a one is
Draconia.

SAM: What about all the other numbers?

TALIESIN: There's only two! It's a coin!

MATT: 20, Marquet. One is Draconia.

TALIESIN: And any other number, we stay home.

LAURA: What is it?

TALIESIN: We're going to Draconia, and we're going
to see if we could find Tiberius.

SAM: Oh god!

LAURA: Let it be known, I don't think we should go
as lizard people anymore.

TRAVIS: Why?

LAURA: I think we should go as ravaged
Draconians.

TALIESIN: I think we should go as Draconians.

MARISHA: We can make ourselves look like
dragonborn with Seeming?

TALIESIN: I think that's a better plan.

LAURA: At least that way, they'll trust us.

TALIESIN: We don't have to teleport to the middle
of nowhere. Well, we do need to get farther away

from here. Is there any way to get farther away
from where we are right now before we--

LIAM: Can we get back to Umbrasyl's lair? I
thought that was a good idea.

SAM: We could go there and there and back.

TALIESIN: Well, as long as we commit to 24 hours
in Draconia no matter what.

MARISHA: We can go to Umbrasyl's lair, but it'll
take an extra day, because I can only teleport us

so many times.

TALIESIN: I think 72 hours is a perfectly
reasonable amount of time to dedicate to this

prospect.

LAURA: Pop in, scry, pop into Draconia, look around
and next day, pop out. Can we do that?

SAM: Yep.

LIAM: If we stop at Umbrasyl's lair, is there
anything we can do to run Grog out like a

labrador? I'm worried about him not getting enough
playtime in.

SAM: In Draconia?

LIAM: No, in the mansion. Can you bamf up anything
for him in the mansion?

SAM: You're talking about tonight?

LIAM: No. We're going to go camp somewhere for a
day, right?

LAURA: No, we're going to Draconia.

LIAM: Right now?

SAM: Go to the black dragon lair, then go to
Draconia, then spend a night there.

LIAM: I've been travelling with these fuckers for
years, and I still don't understand magic.

MARISHA: Hold on a second. We have two choices if
we're going to Draconia: we can either go to

Umbrasyl's lair to scry from there, then teleport
there, which means we will be staying the night in

Draconia.

SAM: In Draconia?

TALIESIN and MARISHA: In Draconia.

MARISHA: Or we go to Draconia right now, blindly,
and then I'd still have a spell to get us out.

SAM: But they could track us back here.

LAURA: How can we go there blindly if you don't
know where a tree is?

MARISHA: Well, I'd scry.

SAM: And then they'd know where we are.

MARISHA: They could theoretically, if we get
caught.

LAURA: We would only scry on a tree. We wouldn't
scry on a dragon.

TALIESIN: I have a compromise.

SAM: Actually, can I just throw this out? The only
thing that would detect us scrying is currently

flying over the ocean. We can scry right now.

TALIESIN: Let's scry from the giant's cave outside
the city.

LAURA: It'll still take a couple of hours to get
there, though?

TALIESIN: Couple of hours to get there. It's fine.
It's nine. It's seven--

LAURA: It's 5:00 in the morning!

TALIESIN: It's 3am! Why are we awake?

MATT: You're still drunk somehow.

TALIESIN: We get far enough outside of the city so
at the very least--

SAM: To the giant's lair! To scry!

MATT: North of the city, up into the beginning
stages of the Alabaster Sierras, you find the

abandoned fortress that is there, embedded on the
side of the mountain wall. Keyleth, you are

attempting a scrying spell? What are you scrying
on?

MARISHA: Okay. I have the map of Draconia, let me
just see if I can scry--

SAM: You know what you know in Draconia? Do you
know what you know in Draconia? You know

Tiberius and you know his armor, and you know his
objects and personal effects?

MARISHA: No, we don't know if he's in
Draconia.

TALIESIN: We may end up somewhere random.

SAM: That's true. but what do you know what is in
Draconia?

MARISHA: I know of the things that Tiberius has
told us.

SAM: Do you know any of his friends or his family?
Have we met his family?

MATT: You have not met his family. You've never
been there.

MARISHA: I don't need to have a known location, 
right? I can just scry in a general area, yeah?

MATT: You need generally a creature of some kind.

SAM: What about his little pet?

LAURA: Are you not scrying on a tree?

LIAM: Lockheed.

MARISHA: Lockheed has a higher chance of being
dead than Tiberius.

TALIESIN: I think that's underestimating, or
overestimating-- I don't know.

LIAM: It's a coin flip.

TALIESIN: It's a coin flip, really. He's small.

MARISHA: Well, this could answer our question. If
I can't find anybody, then we might be going to

Marquet.

SAM: That's true.

TALIESIN: Go for it, then. See what happens.

MARISHA: I guess it's Tiberius, then? He's all I
got. It's got to be someone that I know? It

can't be something I've heard about?

MATT: It can be something you've heard about. A
person or a creature.

TALIESIN: A person or a creature, not a place?

MATT: Not necessarily, no.

TALIESIN: Can it be a magic object?

MATT: It would be a creature of some kind.

TRAVIS: We know about Tiberius. We know about
Kruvanis Stormwind.

SAM: We know of Lockheed.

LIAM: The Mending Wheel. A creature only? Oh shit.
Fucking magic!

LAURA: That's what he just said!

MARISHA: Are we gambling on Tiberius being
there?

SAM: You're going to gamble on Tiberius?

MARISHA: I am gambling on whoever we scry to,
because they could all be dead.

SAM: How many times can you scry?

MARISHA: Theoretically, four times.

LAURA: I've also got a Scrying Stone.

TALIESIN: Start with the stone.

MARISHA: That's right, you've got that goddamn
thing. Give me the stone.

LAURA: Here.

MARISHA: Thank you!

TALIESIN: I think we should call it rock. The
Rock.

MARISHA: It doesn't go away, right?

LAURA: No. it's a Scrying Eye. You can use it once
a day.

MARISHA: Yeah. Let's do this!

SAM: Start with Tiberius.

TALIESIN: Start with Tiberius. We'll work our way
down.

MARISHA: Start with Tiberius.

LAURA: I was going to bring it out!

TALIESIN: No, you did wonderfully.

LAURA: It was just sitting there.

MATT: You take the object. You close your eyes,
focusing on the memory and the life essence of

Tiberius Stormwind. You project your thoughts into
the ether. The nature energies carry you into

the darkness, and there is no response.

SAM: No response?

MATT: No response. The scrying spell finds no
target.

TALIESIN: That can mean a lot of things.

LIAM: Yes, does that stretch across the planes?

SAM: Does it?

MATT: Generally, it's on the same plane of
existence.

SAM: Okay. What about his father?

TALIESIN: Or Lockheed?

SAM: Well, Lockheed would be with--

TALIESIN: Not necessarily. How many times have we
found stray cats?

LAURA: It's true. Maybe scry on Lockheed.

MARISHA: Can I try it? Will it expend
another spell?

MATT: This one will expend a spell.

MARISHA: It lasts for ten minutes? Oh, per spell.

SAM: So you're burning your own spell slot.

MARISHA: Yeah, I'm burning my own spells.

LAURA: At least you got one for free.

SAM: Thanks, Vex.

MARISHA: It makes me very nervous.

SAM: We should do his dad.

TALIESIN: That would be who I would kill if I were
taking over the city.

SAM: You just want to kill everybody.

TALIESIN: I do.

MARISHA: I'm going to try Lockheed. His dad could
be in a place where he's being watched.

MATT: Okay. So this time, you give the object back
to Vex and you sit down and create the ritual

space before you. You sit down in the center of
the stone floor of the fortress and you close your

eyes. This time, you send out your consciousness
once more. The druidic energies carry you an

extended distance in but a few moments, and your
vision clicks in and you see, perched against a

snow-covered rock in the inside of a ravine, a
shivering, small, green dragonling. Alone, and is

partially asleep against the stone. You can see
just past over this large, gaping ravine that is

the center of this portion of Wildemount, you can
see scattered rubble covered in ice and snow

and small distant things you can't quite make out
with your vision here occasionally moving through it.

SAM: Can you see any trees?

MARISHA: Do I find any trees?

MATT: Make a perception check.

MARISHA: 19.

MATT: 19. There's no visible trees in the ravine.
Anything that would be living down there has

been-- from your vision here-- obscured by rock,
rubble, ruined floating island, and snowfall. You

do see growing out of the side of the rock, not
far from where Lockheed is perched is one

leafless, small branch of a tree that extends out.
And as you glance up, there is a very thick tree

that is currently jutting out the side of the
mountain.

MARISHA: Does it appear to be natural?

MATT: It does.

MARISHA: And large enough to fit Grog?

MATT: Maybe.

LAURA: Jutting out the side of--

MATT: Yeah. It's not sitting on ground, but is
currently over the ravine.

MARISHA: Yeah, one of those. Any other trees? Is
this the biggest or closest one?

MATT: That's all you can make out from this
perspective.

MARISHA: How big is the ravine? How deep is it?

MATT: From where you can tell right now, from the
perspective you can see, looking at Lockheed, it's

probably a good 50-foot fall before you hit a
scattering of broken rock, and eventually it

comes into a grade to the bottom of the ravine.

TRAVIS: Not great.

MARISHA: Not a good option.

MATT: You guys have fallen 50 feet and been
fine.

SAM: Someone has Feather Fall, right? No?

MARISHA: Did it look like a natural cavern or a
man-made cavern that Lockheed was in?

MATT: From what you can tell, it looks natural.

MARISHA: Like he found a little cave and is
hiding?

MATT: It's less of a cave and more he's perched on
this little alcove, this little outcropping of

rock on the side of the ravine wall.

MARISHA: Oh, he's on the side of the ravine.

MATT: On the side of the ravine.

LAURA: Okay, I have an idea. What if we tie a rope
on something on this side and we all go out of the

rope really fast and drop down?

TALIESIN: Grog first.

SAM: Should you scry one more time, for the dad?
Because best-case scenario, we're in a weird,

snowy ravine with no civilization around.

TALIESIN: We don't want to be around any
civilization. And also, that's one more spell gone.

MATT: You did see, distant, blurred from your
perspective, since the focus of the scry was on

Lockheed, you did see movement and very small
distant objects within the snow at the base of the ravine.

LAURA: They could potentially see us as soon as we
come out of the tree.

SAM: Yeah, we'll be far away.

MARISHA: They could be citizens, they could be
creatures? I just saw movement of figures, I

didn't see any details?

SAM: Seems like a good plan.

LAURA: This is risky.

MARISHA: This is ridiculous.

TALIESIN: It's true. There's only risk at this
point. Is this the risk we make or is this not the

risk we make. Grog?

TRAVIS: Oh, are we asking for Grog's opinion now?

TALIESIN: Only so that we can ignore it.

LAURA: You're the one that was most adamant about us
going there.

TALIESIN: With the new data, how do you feel?

TRAVIS: I think we should take the hint and not
go.

SAM: But you said--

TRAVIS: Yeah, but I was picturing meandering
out of a nice, beautiful tree in a forest.

SAM: It's a little jolt. It's a little fall. It's
fine.

LIAM: That's it. He created this idea and he's
backing out.

SAM: You told us your famous phrase: all risk!
That's what this is.

TRAVIS: I do hate to have my own words used
against me.

SAM: All risk. That's what this is! We are
doing all risk!

TRAVIS: I'm down to party. I'm just saying it was
a little different in my head.

SAM: I've never known you to be a coward, Grog.

TALIESIN: No! Why would you do that?!

LAURA: Why, Scanlan?!

TRAVIS: I'll go first. You hold my hand, and I'll
go first.

LIAM: He can play the fiddle very well.

TRAVIS: I'll go. Let's do it. I'm ready.

LAURA: Okay, before we go through, I'm going to
cast Pass Without a Trace on us so we can stealth

through the tree. Like that's going to work.

TALIESIN: No, that's a good idea.

LAURA: I'm going to look for something very solid.
Are there trees around us that we can go through

right now?

MATT: A short walk, you could get down to the base
of the forest.

LAURA: All right. I'm going to tie the rope off
onto a very sturdy thing next to a tree that

we're going to go through.

TALIESIN: We're going to rappel.

LAURA: Yes.

TRAVIS: Does the portal only close after a
couple seconds?

TALIESIN: Yes. Six seconds. We're all going to
hold on to the rope and we all go.

MATT: Six seconds for all of you to--

LAURA: Jump out!

MARISHA: Bungee-jumping out of a tree!

LIAM: We are fucking idiots!

MARISHA: This is the stupidest--

TALIESIN: This is a terrible plan. I want to go on
record for saying I was against this plan--

SAM: We can just leave really quick! She's got
another teleport, yeah. We're going to climb up to

the tree--

MARISHA: I didn't see Draconia. I saw the ravine,
and it was snowy, so we can assume it's nearby.

But I didn't see Draconia, did I?

MATT: You've never seen Draconia before.

MARISHA: But did I see a city in my scry?

MATT: You saw no city.

LAURA: You saw rubble.

MARISHA: Once again, Lockheed could have flown
miles away.

TALIESIN: He could have.

SAM: At the worst, this is a quick recon mission.
We jump back in the tree, we come back. 15

minutes.

LAURA: But there's things that were crawling
around amongst the dead.

SAM: They were far off in the distance!

TALIESIN: They weren't that far off. But to be fair,
this is what a plan is, is everything going wrong.

So I'm all right with doing this, if we're doing
this.

TRAVIS: All right, sweet. I am, too.

MARISHA: All right, fuck it! Let's do it.

MATT: All right. So you've affixed the rope at the
base of the strongest tree you can find.

MARISHA: Are we going to tie ourselves to each
other again, like before?

LAURA: No! Because that's dumb. We're going to
break our backs. I'm going to cast Pass Without a

Trace on everyone right now because why the fuck
not?

SAM: You got a fucking broom. I'm hopping on the
broom.

LAURA: Oh yeah, I'm on the broom. And he's on the
broom.

TALIESIN: Vex, we're going to have the greatest
I-told-you-so if we survive this.

MATT: All right. We have Vex and Scanlan on the
broom.

TRAVIS: Should you make me some something teensy?

MARISHA: Oh, this is such a stupid idea...

TALIESIN: No, we're going to need every spell we
need in there. No, you're the weight that's going

to hold the rope down, you're going first.

MATT: Any of your spell prep?

LIAM: I'm going to pop my wings out and hook my
arms under Kiki's armpits.

MATT: Okay.

TALIESIN: I'm holding on the rope, because I'm an
idiot.

MATT: All right. Grog and Percy holding onto the
rope.

MARISHA: This is stupid. This is so stupid!

TALIESIN: I hate you all.

MARISHA: We've done so many fucking stupid things.
But this is really stupid.

MATT: Vex casts Pass Without a Trace. The shadows
reach around and embrace your forms. You become more

obscured the further the light is from your body.
Keyleth, what are you doing?

MARISHA: I cast Transport Via Plants on that big,
fatty tree!

MATT: Keyleth touches the edge of the tree, the
rope which is affixed to above. The trunk (portal opens).

MARISHA: Everyone ready?

TALIESIN and MARISHA: Go!

LAURA: I fly through stealthily.

MATT: You fly through stealthily.

LAURA: I'm trying to get down to the ground
quickly and hide behind something.

MATT: Right. I would like all of you guys to make
stealth checks at disadvantage.

TRAVIS: Yes! That's awesome.

MARISHA: Oh, that's not too bad.

TRAVIS: 17!

SAM: Pass Without a Trace?

TRAVIS: Oh. 27.

TALIESIN: 20.

SAM: 20.

MARISHA: 22.

LIAM: 35.

LAURA: 33.

TRAVIS: 27.

MATT: All right. As Vex and Scanlan scoot first
through the opening, you coast down, and there is

a cluster of rocks, but there's a light snowdust,
and you find a snowbank that you guys coast down

to quickly. You can decide to float above the
snowbank. What do you want to do?

LAURA: We get down on the ground and go under.

MATT: Okay, so you disappear under the snowbank. It is
freezing cold, the wet immediately falling snow

against your form begins to seep in. But you are
below eye-level. Vax and Keyleth? You guys just

dart through, you holding her.

LIAM: Fly through, and then once I see them hit
the ground, I'm going to dive-bomb us, and I'm

going to wrap us in a little wing bubble and roll
into the snow.

MATT: All right. As you guys come falling out the
side of the tree, you see nearby as a small,

green tiny dragon gets startled and flies off. You
guys go coasting, the wings expand for a second.

It picks up and as you hit, whipping past the 15 feet
of jagged rocks that were gathered at the

base of the ravine, you scoot over it, the wings
fold in around you, and you guys tumble into the

snow. Make an acrobatics check with disadvantage
because you're grabbing onto her and are

covered in wings.

LAURA: And you're covered in wings.

LIAM: I rolled a 15 and a 20. That would be a 30.

MATT: You don't feel the pain. And the wings do
cause a significant barrier of impact, as well as

the snow. As soon as you land, you go into a
classic shoulder roll and use the inertia to not

arise above the water. You both essentially coast
sideways, stopping within the snowbank. From an

overhead perspective, you can see a large swath
has been carved through. But from visual eye

range, at equal level, you guys still appear to be
hidden within the snow.

The two of you jump through and start rappelling
down, Grog at the bottom end. Bringing the rope,

bringing the rope down, bringing the rope down. It
slams shuts, the rope cuts at the other end as the

portal closes. Percy, you just make it out as
the rope gives way. It is now Grog and Percy

plummeting toward the ground.

MARISHA: I cast a Grasping Vine to grab Grog.

MATT: You don't have the opportunity, because this
all happens in a period of six seconds and you

guys just landed and coasted in the snow.

TRAVIS: Am I right under Percy?

MATT: He's about five feet ahead of you, yeah.

TRAVIS: (laughs)

TALIESIN: I'm going to let that happen.

MATT: You're cushioning his fall?

TRAVIS: Yep.

MATT: All right. Make an acrobatics check, just
for the hell of it.

LIAM: I love this game.

TRAVIS: 13.

MATT: 13. As soon as you look over your shoulder
and see the ground coming, you try and swing your

legs underneath to catch you, to slide across. And
you begin to. Your feet catch the rock and you

feel the muscles tense. Your back gets jammed a
little bit. And you catch Percy in your arms, but

the momentum of Percy hitting you sends you back
over, and you both tumble into the snow. You do

prevent Percy from taking any damage, but you do
suffer five points of fall damage.

LIAM: Stubbed your toe, big guy?

TRAVIS: I got a booby.

SAM: Is Lockheed within range still? Can we see
him?

MATT: You guys make a perception check.

MARISHA: Can I look, too?

MATT: You're just now getting
up out of the ball of wings.

LAURA: 25.

SAM: Six.

LAURA: 25.

MATT: 25. You do see Lockheed is about 50, 60 feet
up on the rock right now.

SAM: Where's Lockheed?

LAURA: Can I whisper in Draconic? Lockheed! And
whatever the word is for "Come to me."

MATT: Seems too far to really be within earshot of
a whisper.

SAM: I see her doing this. I point to him, and I
cast Message, and I say: Lockheed! We're down

here! Come down! It's us, your friends!

MATT: Lockheed (wingbeats) and then glides against
the rock. And glides lower to the rock. Glides

lower to the rock, and flies up-- still keeping a
cautious distance from you above the snow.

LIAM: Tibs. We're friends with Tibs. Tiberius. You
remember us?

MATT: You can see Lockheed a little closer
now. You remember him being fairly sick when he was

initially purchased. While the illness has passed,
he looks greatly malnourished and thin--

LAURA: I pull out some of my food that I give to
Trinket and try to feed it...

MATT: As soon as you pull out the food, Lockheed's
demeanor changes immediately. Darts up and almost

latches onto your hand and causes you to jump--

LAURA: I cast Speak With Animals. Is he an
animal?

MATT: Nope.

SAM: I have Speak With Small Beasts...

MATT: Not a beast.

SAM: Fuck you!

(laughter)

LIAM: He's a little small monster.

LAURA: I would have known, as a dragon expert,
that he's not a fucking animal, then. Whatever.

SAM: What is a monster?

TALIESIN: Hit your head in the fall.

LAURA: I didn't fall, I flew.

TRAVIS: Pike's a small monster.

SAM: Just grab him and put him in the bag of
holding!

MATT: At this point now, the temperature's really
set into you. You've heard stories. You're

familiar with the sound. The words you've heard of
Wildemount, being largely a colder continent,

especially to the north where the actual
civilizations of man exist. Draconia's a little

further to the south, but also based on the
information you have, this being taken recently as

the den of Vorugal, there is an almost perpetual
small snowstorm that is existing about this

ravine, and the wind itself is beginning to cut
through. Thankfully, you're mostly armored up. For

the time being, you're fine. But you can see where
this is a difficult weather pattern to perpetually

live in. Lockheed finishes eating vigorously and
seems to be waiting across your hand.

LAURA: Perch him on my shoulder and get out some
more of the little boar meat we have in the bag of

colding and feeding him.

MATT: He eats some, happily.

LAURA: Can I speak Draconic to him, see if he
understands any of that?

MATT: What do you say?

LIAM: Tiberius was teaching him Draconic.

LAURA: Yeah, I know. I say "Where is Tiberius?" in
Draconic.

LIAM: Where is home?

LAURA: Where is home?

MATT: (croaking)

LIAM: Unless Tibs got further along with him, it
was one word--

SAM: He was teaching him "sit" and "play dead" and
stuff.

LIAM: One word at a time.

LAURA: All right. Stay.

MATT: And stays and digs in the talons at the top
of your leather armor shoulder, folds thed wings in

and just waits there, huddled up against 
your shoulder for warmth.

TALIESIN: I'm going to look around and see if
there's a direction in which it seems there's

civilization or any signs of battle or otherwise.

MATT: Make a perception check.

TALIESIN: 16.

MATT: 16. You bring your head above the snowline
and you can see surrounding you-- and you are in

the center of this giant ravine that opens up to
the sky. Not quite Grand Canyon size, but it's

about half the width. It's a wide gulf. And you
guys are on one side of where the ravine slowly

begins to coalesce, and there's various steps in
which the ravine casts down. You were already

towards the bottom when you landed. This could
have been a lot worse were it higher up.

Looking up, you see, just from this vantage point,
dozens of large stacks of broken rock and stone.

You see pillars that are jutting out of portions
of this. You see partially and mostly collapsed

buildings that themselves have been destroyed from
serious impact. You recall, during the initial

attack of the Conclave, that one of the things
that was seen through a vision was the fall of

Draconia, which were islands of stone that were
held aloft through arcane means within this

ravine. What you now look upon are all the fallen
remains of each of these arcane islands now

plummeted, crushed, and fell into the ravine and
have been sundered and destroyed. You do see

figures moving quickly and crawling over elements
of it, and you see a cluster of them fighting over

something and then disperse.

LIAM: How far off?

MATT: They're probably a good 300 feet off.

LAURA: Could we tell what kind of creatures they
are?

MATT: They appear to be humanoid, somewhat
reptilian.

SAM: Should I make us lizard people?

MARISHA: Can I do a nature check to see if I can
see the origin, the epicenter of the storm? Like

the eye of the storm? Where it's coming from?

TALIESIN: Clever.

MARISHA: 16.

MATT: 16. Best that you can view, the storm seems
to be slowly spiraling, and a large heavy portion

of the snowfall and sleet is hitting about a mile
or so towards the right side of the ravine that

you guys are looking at. From the wall you're at,
you have the right and the left sides of this

current ravine structure, seems to be that
direction, about a mile.

MARISHA: I think the dragon's lair is that way.

SAM: Can you look around for more trees that
aren't so hard to get to in case we need to make a

fast getaway?

TALIESIN: We could just keep our eyes open.

SAM: All right.

MARISHA: You said it was a mile. Can we traverse
through the bottom of the ravine to get there in

that direction?

SAM: Or is it all water?

MATT: No, you can.

TRAVIS: We're going to crack out the good old Dust
of Tracelessness since there's knee-high snow?

TALIESIN: Let's not be fleshy.

SAM: You want me to make us Draconians or lizard
people?

TALIESIN: If we're lizard people, Draconians will
not trust us.

LIAM: Yeah. We can at least pretend to cower and
be afraid of lizard men if we see them.

SAM: I don't think Grog can cower.

TRAVIS: What is the definition of this word?

SAM: Be a wussy.

TALIESIN: Shaky dance.

(laughter)

LIAM: You know when you bang your balls on a rock
or something? It's like that, you go, (groans).

TALIESIN: Is there anything you're not good at?
Don't think that hard. Never mind.

SAM: Draconians?

TALIESIN: Draconians.

SAM: I will cast Seeming on the party and make us
all Draconians.

MATT: What kind of Draconians? There are many
types of colors, there are those with and without tails--

SAM: Wasn't Tiberius a strange one?

LAURA: Don't do red!

SAM: He was a strange one, right?

MARISHA: He was the odd man out.

LIAM: They didn't take kindly to him.

SAM: Metallic, yeah?

LIAM: Bronze?

SAM: Like gray, silver?

LAURA: Maybe it's good to make us silvers and
whiteish!

SAM: Bronze, silver, and gold then, I guess.

LIAM: That's chromatic. Metallic! Bronze, silver,
gold.

SAM: Yeah, we'll do the Olympics.

MATT: With or without tail? Because you've met
both.

TALIESIN: They won't actually be tails. That might
actually get us in trouble.

SAM: Which one was Tiberius?

MATT: Tiberius had a tail.

SAM: Do most of them have a tail?

LAURA: Gern didn't have a tail and he was less
than-- I don't think Draconians will like us

without a tail.

SAM: We all have tails. Mine's a little longer
than the rest.

(laughter)

MATT: Keeping your normal attire, just on the top
of the Draconian form?

SAM: No! What do Draconians wear?

LAURA: Rags! Put us in rags, like we've been
living in rubble.

SAM: Raw silk and tattered clothes, just rags,
terrible gray things.

LAURA: Make us look like we've been beat up.

SAM: Sure. We all have a single bruise.

(laughter)

SAM: In a different place on our face. Everyone's
got one face bruise in a different place.

MATT: All of your forms shift into that of various
metallic dragonborn, with tails, adorned in rags,

dirty. What do you do?

LAURA: Oh shit, who all speaks Draconic here?

SAM: You speak Draconic!

(laughter)

SAM: We're all mutes. We're lepers and mutes, and
you are our doctor?

LIAM: Everybody else does fearful anime reacts the
whole time.

(gasping)

TRAVIS: (speaking in Japanese)

LAURA: Don't actually speak Japanese, Grog.

TALIESIN: We're moving towards the epicenter.

MATT: You guys step up out of the snow and begin
walking?

MARISHA: Stealthily.

LAURA: Okay, I'm stealthily leading us. That
direction, towards where the lair is?

TRAVIS: Keeping an eye out for trees.

LAURA: And for any of the lizard creatures coming
towards us.

MATT: Right now, no.

LAURA: Then let's quietly make our way that
direction.

LIAM: Remember, like you've been hit in the
balls.

TRAVIS: Oh.

MATT: You guys cluster up and begin stepping above
the snow, which is still about waist, knee-high

for some of you. Making your way to the right of
your current location, towards the center of the

storm that Keyleth discovered. As you guys begin
to walk, a nearby pile of rock and rubble, there

was that one cluster of four, five of these moving
lizard-like entities. Suddenly, one of them looks

at your group, looks back at the rest, and they
all stand up and look over in your direction.

SAM: You're our leader, friend. Do we continue?

MATT: They're just watching you. They're not doing
anything.

LAURA: Let's injuredly keep walking.

MATT: They go back to rummaging through. You guys
continue to walk. The ravine curves to the right,

or at least begins to open up further to the right
and you're met with the next large structure of

rubble. What you saw was the edge of an extremely
large, once-floating island, now crushed and

sundered across the ground. There are sheets of
ice across parts of it. You can see the better

part of a large palace or library that is now
caved in partially. You can see frozen books

scattered across portions of the stone and rock on
the ground before you. You can see a series of

huts have been constructed on top of this rubble,
and there are some small fires lit, little plumes

of smoke and probably two dozen dragonborn figures
that are currently combing through the rubble.

LAURA: Do we see any books that seem interesting
as we're walking through them?

MATT: They're underneath ice. You can try and
chisel some out, if you like.

LIAM: Don't have time!

MATT: A lot of it's covered in snow. There's some
bits you can peek through and see sheets of ice

and frozen books--

TRAVIS: Are there any frozen bodies?

MATT: As you begin to have a closer book as you
walk by, there are many frozen bodies. You see

many people, all dragonborn, some atop the rubble,
some partially crushed, some partially locked in

ice, some destroyed by some sort of an acidic
substance. Some of them are covered in boils, and

their face is locked in some sort of horrible
coughing fit. This was a very terrifying battle

scene that has transpired here.

LAURA: That means Raishan was here.

MARISHA: That means Thordak was here.

LIAM: Umbrasyl was here. Acid.

MARISHA: They attacked the cities as a horde.

MATT: There are no signs of anyone burned.

MARISHA: I thought you said ash.

LAURA: The people that are scouring through the
rubble, are those dragonborn or just the lizard

people?

MATT: Best that you can tell right now, it appears
to be dragonborn.

LAURA: Can we look at their behavior and see what
it looks like they're doing?

MATT: Make an insight check.

TALIESIN: I would like to join that insight
check.

SAM: I would not like to.

TALIESIN: Nine.

LIAM: Nine.

SAM: I will join that insight check.

MARISHA: I'll join in, too.

MATT: You've already said no.

LAURA: 13. This isn't having to do with dragons?
So it's 13.

MARISHA: I don't do insight checks too often, I'm
sorry. 22.

MATT: Did you roll or not?

TRAVIS: Oh, I rolled a ten.

MATT: Best you can tell, they're surviving.
They're scouring through the ruins, trying to find

anything of worth. Some of it's finding wood and
throwing it onto these little flame pyres that are

scattered around the ruins. You begin to look and
see that actually the sides of the ravine, there

are hundreds of small caverns are carved into the
rock. Not quite like a dense honeycomb style, but

it looks like there is an entire cave city that
lives within this ravine.

LIAM: And they're not frozen over?

MATT: Some of them are covered in snow.

LIAM: But snow, not blasted with ice?

TALIESIN: They look like they're in use?

MATT: Some of these dragonborn, they're coming out
of their huts. Some of them are still looking up

at the sky nervously. They look over and see you
guys approaching and a voice calls out, "Who goes there?"

LAURA: Friends. Friends of Stormwinds.

MATT: "Friends of Stormwind, you say? We have
friends of Stormwind. Approach."

LAURA: I walk up injuredly.

LIAM: I'm hobbling up behind.

TALIESIN: I'm cowering.

MATT: You guys cower and approach. Keyleth, Vax,
and Vex, you notice as you approach that a number

of the people that have all stopped and are paying
attention are beginning to move around and

encircle you.

LAURA: Pardon my friends, their tongues have been
cut out by our captors. I'm all that's left.

MATT: As you walk forward you can see the figure
that's talking to you, a very tall, burly,

bronze-scaled dragonborn, long horns that protrude
down the back in a slow curvature. No tail. In

fact, you now notice that every single one of the
dragonborn you've noticed here have no tail.

SAM: We had a 50-50 chance!

MATT: "Friends of Stormwind. That would make you
Sky-walkers. I see your tails. You survive the

"onslaught and step into the den of those you
persecuted. Well, what are your last words?"

SAM: This was a great plan.

LIAM: Drop it.

SAM: I don't know what's going on.

MARISHA: Is this all being said in Draconic?

SAM: It's Draconian! I don't know what's
happening.

LAURA: You know what, I don't know what to tell
you. Everyone with a tail's an asshole. We got

what was coming to us.

MATT: Make a persuasion check.

TALIESIN: Wow!

LAURA: 19?

MATT: He turns his head to the side a bit. (spits)
"What skills do you have?"

LAURA: I can shoot.

MATT: "Is that all?"

LAURA: He makes boots.

MATT: "That's a skill."

LAURA: She's really good at stonecraft.

MATT: All the other dragonborn that come behind
you are now holding spears, some of them

rudimentary-looking pikes that are just held up
and pointed in your direction. You guys are now

enclosed by about two dozen dragonborn. "Here are
your choices: You die here like the scum you are--"

LAURA: Choice B.

MATT: "Then slavery it is."

(laughter)

MATT: "You will join the rest of your ilk, and you
will seek food for us. You will know what it's

"like to be bent beneath the knee of those who do
not deserve it. Put them in chains!"

LAURA: Oh, they're going to know, as soon as we're
in chains.

LIAM: Well, we're going to have a fight here.

LAURA: Oh, shall we drop Seeming? Perhaps we should
drop Seeming?

SAM: What? Is it going well?

LAURA: Wait.

MATT: They approach, and stop for a second. A few
of the folks who came over and went to grab for

chains have stopped and are holding them in their
hand.

LAURA: I have to tell you something. We're not
actually Draconian.

MATT: He leans in and gives you this very keen
look now, and takes a few steps closer. He's about

five feet from you now. "From where I stand, you
look pretty fucking Draconian to me."

LAURA: Well, we have some really good magic users
with us. Look, forgive us for making tails. We

don't know anything about your culture. We're
idiots! We came here because we know you're under

attack, and we're trying to help.

MATT: "And you just wander into the caves of the
Ravenites, dressed in the face of those that broke

"our backs?"

LAURA: Yep, because we're stupid!

MATT: Make a persuasion check with disadvantage.

SAM: Disadvantage. Not good.

LAURA: 14?

MATT: 14? "Bring the chains. You have ten seconds
to prove--"

LAURA: Drop Seeming, just drop it.

SAM: Really? It's one of my better spells.

LAURA: I know, I'm sorry!

SAM: All right, poof. We're back to normal.

MATT: All of your images fade. Everyone takes a
step back. The spears come up even further, and

there's a little pause.

MARISHA: My tail's gone! Bummer.

LAURA: No, believe me, you don't want the tail.

MARISHA: But I enjoyed it.

LIAM: Does this make things better or worse for
us?

LAURA: I repeat him.

MATT: Yeah, the reactions you get from them, you
gather most of these don't speak Common and none

of them seem to understand what you're saying.

LAURA: Here's the thing. You're being attacked by
a white dragon.

MATT: "The white dragon came, and he tore down the
Sky-walkers."

LAURA: So you're happy with it?

MATT: "Well, it's put us in a better position."

LAURA: Right. But now that the Sky-walkers have
already been torn down, do you want to keep the

dragon in charge?

MATT: "We owe the dragon for the freedom that he
gave us."

LAURA: So you serve one.

MATT: "For the time."

LAURA: And he doesn't punish you at all? He's a
good master?

MATT: "Those who deserve punishment get it. But we
hunt with it. It brings us power. It promises

"expansion of the Ravenites, and we will no longer
live under the boot of those in this countryside

"and this continent."

LIAM: How's it going?

LAURA: Really bad.

MATT: "We have children to feed. We have families
of our own."

LAURA: How can we help?

MATT: "How can you help?"

LAURA: That's what we're here for.

MATT: "Bring us food, bring us warmth, chop some
firewood. Bring some trees. Work."

LAURA: Gladly. But not in chains. We do this
freely.

MATT: "Give us your weapons, and you can walk
freely."

SAM: Let's kill them all.

LAURA: I'm sorry, that's not happening.

MATT: "Then leave."

LAURA: That we will.

MATT: "What is your business here, she who wanders
in the faces of others?"

MARISHA: That's a cool title.

LAURA: Yeah, add that to the list. Our entire
landscape is under attack. Now, Vorugal has helped

you, but they've made many others suffer, not just
Draconians. Entire cities brought down, for

nothing. We're here to right the wrong and help in
any way we can.

MATT: "You should talk to Tooma."

LAURA: Tooma.

MARISHA: Tooma. It is not a tumor.

LAURA: We knew that was going to happen.

LIAM: Took about 1.5 seconds to fuck with Matt's
name.

TALIESIN: I think he assumed.

MATT: All you're doing is putting fuel on the
fire.

(groaning)

SAM: Is it Tooma?

MATT: Tooma. T-O-O-M-A.

LIAM: That's totally different.

LAURA: Who is Tooma?

MATT: "Tooma is our chieftain. I'm not to make
this decision. Come. No chains, for now." They all

stay with their spears still out in front, but
they nudge you forward.

LAURA: I explain everything that's happening in
Common as we walk. Is everyone still cool with

this? We're going to the chieftain.

SAM: Just tell us when it's time to kill
everybody.

LIAM: We improvise. It's what we do.

TALIESIN: I think this is actually going far
better than I had hoped.

SAM: Just remember Vex, ticking time bomb here.
We've got to get in, get out. We've got one day here.

TRAVIS: Are there any trees that we can see as
we're walking?

LAURA: They actually said they wanted us to chop
firewood, so if we can get sent on that mission,

we're set.

MATT: Make a perception check.

TRAVIS: Hey, 19!

LAURA: Are we in the mountains? No. Are we?

LIAM: 29.

MATT: You're in a ravine. Perception check was
just for Grog, as he's the only one that asked to

look for trees. But you rolled a 19?

TRAVIS: I did!

MATT: Looking around, occasionally poking out of
the rubble, you'll see a tree. Most of them seem

to have not fared so well with the cold weather
and have been snapped or broken in the process of

the falling rubble. You do make out, towards the
edge on the other side of the ravine, beyond this

giant one, you can see this one island, one larger
island of the cluster that made up Draconia, fell

in the center here and is broken apart. On the far
end, you can see there's a small cluster of trees,

the hint of green still to them, some of them
varying thickness.

MARISHA: I could work with that.

TRAVIS: Might be a long way, though.

LIAM: We've been here, what, ten minutes?

MATT: I'd say about 20.

SAM: So we're going to go see Tooma, or we're
going to chop down some fucking trees?

LAURA: We have to go. They're walking us to the
chieftain. Can't just walk away now.

MATT: You guys are prodded along, over the rubble,
and as you come around you can start to see, where

the outside of the island is broken rock, the
center of it is broken structures. Buildings,

homes, giant great marble halls, everything is
mostly fallen in. You still see some structures

standing, but at odd angles. There are sections of
buildings that still show the outer outline of

what once stood, but it is all a complete ruin.
You do see every now and then a few large spikes

of ice that are jutting out of portions, and you
see bodies that are jabbed onto the spikes and

left to freeze.

LAURA: Do they have tails?

MATT: They do. You move over the bulk of this
giant pile of rubble and begin to descend the

other side, and you can see now there is an active
village here that is half-frozen entirely. Half of

it seems to be abandoned; the other half of it is
completely coated in solid ice. The crowd leads

you past that abandoned village to a series of
tunnels against the wall, maybe 300 or 400 feet

past that cluster of trees that you saw. Leads you
into this tunnel, and on the inside, there are small

glow stones set in portions of the stone. Not
naturally forming, but essentially small natural

bits of torchlight just pressed into the stonework
to give some sort of a light source.

You're led in for about five or so minutes. and
you see other offshoot tunnels. It's like a giant

anthill weaved throughout this, and you can see
rudimentary furniture made of wood and stone, with

limestone rock, whatever's available within the
actual ravine here.

MARISHA: Can I get a sense on when this was
carved? If this was carved recently or if this has

been here a while?

MATT: Make a nature check.

MARISHA: Ooh, 27.

MATT: Best you can tell from looking at the rock
and knowing the amount of erosion versus the

curvature of it, these tunnels have been here for
a very long time. This portion opens up and you

can see now there is a much more refined,
village-type structure inside, maybe 30-plus small

homes carved from rock and stone. Built much
better than the makeshift huts that you saw

outside. You also see a giant pile of broken
chains to the left side of the entryway. Many of

them are manacles and neck vices that are just
thrown and discarded in this large pile.

MARISHA: Tiberius never mentioned this side of
Draconia.

MATT: As you are brought into the center of this
larger chamber you see two dozen Draconians that

are out and about just currently gathering
materials, talking and walking, and stop and see as you

enter and just watch as you pass by. Colors range
from metallic to chromatic, all spectrum; it's a

mish-mash of all walks and sizes.

LIAM: And the chromatic-- the red, the blue, the
green-- are we seeing tails on them?

MATT: Nope.

MARISHA: No tails.

LAURA: Nobody has tails down here.

SAM: I could make us all Draconian again without
tails.

LAURA: That would probably work at this point,
right?

MATT: You're led past a couple of these stone
structures and there is a central, open circular

plot between a lot of these. There's a fountain
that seems to spring a very clean source of water

within the center of this chamber. Beyond that,
there is a larger temple-like square structure

that has a slight trapezoidal appearance to it.
The entranceway is an open arch, and you can see a

large fire burning on the inside of it.

You are led around the fountain and led to the
inside. There, sitting on a large stone seat made

of haphazard bits of rock and stone, it looks
relatively uncomfortable, a large stone throne,

there is a female dragonborn. She wears long,
drab, gray robes, tattered at the edges, a hood

loosely pulled back and a large scarf or wrap
around her neck and shoulders. She just sits there

with her hands over the side, draped, and as you
walk in and your eyes adjust you can see that she

looks very old. As you're brought in, the rest of
your crew still pushes you in with the spears. She

leans forward. "Are these prisoners of ours?"

The dragonborn who brought you in goes, "They are,
for the time being. They say they come here

"because the Frigid Doom and other dragons who came
are killing their people, as well. They have come

"to fight the dragon, or so they claim. They walked
in under guise of our enemy. It is your wisdom to

"make these choices." And the larger dragonborn
bows his head and steps away, the spears pull back

and they step, blocking the exits that you walked
through; the entire archway now is shoulder to

shoulder dragonborn with spears at the ready.

LAURA: Tooma. We apologize for coming in the guise
of your enemies. Unfortunately, we don't know much

about your culture, and no one ever informed us of
what you have suffered, and we apologize.

MATT: Make a persuasion check.

LAURA: 23?

MATT: You're saying this in Draconic, I assume?
She leans in a bit, and the firelight crackles

under her chin, and you can see the teeth on one
side pull out beyond the lip, and it gives her

this lopsided look. The tongue wipes across the
front, and she leans in toward you. "You come here

"to fight the Frigid Doom, you say?"

LAURA: Yes.

MATT: "I would be lying if I said it did not bring
a chance for freedom to all of us Ravenites."

LAURA: Much deserved.

MATT: "But as time progresses, I fear we shake one
bond to step into another. The dragon presented

"itself as our savior, but has since required an
ever-growing fealty."

LAURA: They do that.

MATT: "Without the Draconians, without the
Sky-walkers, and without the Doom, we would be

"free. Rebuild our culture."

LAURA: I want nothing more for you than that. Let
us help you.

MATT: Now, the rest of you hear this: "Do your
friends speak Common?"

TALIESIN: Oh, that's lovely.

MARISHA: Hi!

SAM: Hi, yes.

LAURA: Much relieved. Yes, they do.

SAM: Grog doesn't, but we do.

TRAVIS: (moans)

(laughter)

MATT: "If we are to let you go, do you promise to
slay this creature?"

LAURA: We will do everything in our power to watch
it die.

LIAM: It is our only purpose.

MATT: "It has been gone for days."

LAURA: It should be back very soon.

MATT: "Took most of its army with it."

SAM: Grog was right! He's always right!

TALIESIN: That was our hope, that we would be able
to come here when it was at its weakest and get a

sense of it.

SAM: Do you know where its lair is?

MATT: "I do."

SAM: Is it far?

MATT: "It is not far, but one hour walk."

LAURA: Can I roll an insight check on her?

MATT: You may.

LAURA: 19.

MATT: 19?

SAM: (gasps) Oh boy.

TALIESIN: Do you know what I like as much as
whispers? Loot Crate.

SAM: What? Taliesin. You've got to do better than
that. Try something like this: You know, Matt's an

asshole, but you know who's not? The good people
at Loot Crate.

TALIESIN: Loot Crate doesn't decide to just tell one
person about what's going on. They let everyone

know, not just Vex.

SAM: Hey, you never told us what he whispered to
you before.

MATT: No, he didn't.

LIAM: We're good.

SAM: Oh boy.

LIAM: I'm a vampire. Just deal with it.

MATT: "If you come here to kill this dragon, I
assume you have the means and a plan."

SAM: We definitely have plans.

MARISHA: Totally have a plan.

MATT: "Then let us set an ambush."

SAM: Ambush? Sorry?

MARISHA: Come again?

LAURA: Well, we tried to do that one other time.
While it did pay off, and its brother is dead, a

lot of people died in the process. A lot. Very
large, strong people.

MATT: "So what do you insist? We not have an
ambush, we just wait for it to land and attack head-on?"

SAM: We were going to use this opportunity to find
our way into its lair and find its weaknesses, and plan.

MARISHA: Sabotage, from the inside.

TALIESIN: There's more than one dragon, and they
are supporting each other.

MARISHA: We kill this one, it'll set off a chain
reaction that we might not be able to recover from

if we're not fully prepared.

TALIESIN: We want to make the means to make sure
that when the time comes, we can destroy them all

in one fell swoop.

LAURA: The risk here is that by destroying
Vorugal--

SAM: The Frigid Doom.

LAURA: We'll bring the wrath of the others upon
you.

TALIESIN: He is not the strongest.

LAURA: Thordak is much larger, and I don't think
he's been here.

MATT: "You speak with accents I do not understand.
Where do you come from?"

TALIESIN: Everywhere.

MARISHA: We're a motley crew.

LAURA: Lots of different places.

TRAVIS: Do not answer that question.

TALIESIN: We can answer the continent.

LAURA: As you can see, we're half-elves.

MATT: "We are to walk to the den. We are to learn
your information. Then what?"

TALIESIN: Set up a situation where we can monitor
you and possibly contact you when it's time, and

even let you know if we think the dragon's about
to leave, so that you can prepare.

MATT: "I have lived to see this day by not being
deceived or tricked. You speak words that are not

"direct. They wind. They spin. They circle. What
guarantee do I have that you will not just flee?"

MARISHA: To be fair, what guarantee do we have
that you won't kill us, and the ambush was meant

for us? I believe there is untrust on both sides.

MATT: At which point, she steps off of the throne,
steps on both of her feet, and when she's off the

throne, her imposing form becomes far less
imposing. You can see now there's a very heavy

hunch to her back, and as she scuffles forward,
she's an almost pitiful-looking sight, physically.

As she pulls forward to walk straight to you,
Keyleth, you see the somewhat clouded,

cataract-ridden eyes of the dragonborn female
Tooma. She comes up to you and goes, "We are a

"proud people, even when pressed into the dirt for
as many years as we have been. We reclaim our

"honor. We reclaim our place in this world. We wish
to do this as peacefully as possible, but we have

"been forced to scrounge and survive through this
freedom. We wish you no folly. We wish you no ill

"will. But we also have learned that trust needs to
be earned; it cannot be spoken and given so

"freely. Both ways. You are right to mistrust, as
are we of you. But that is the impasse. One must

"have faith, in one way or another, if there is to
be a compromise."

MARISHA: I think faith and trust are not mutually
exclusive. I can not trust you and still have

faith, and you should not feel lack of pride for
living in the dirt, or surviving. There's nothing

wrong with that. But I understand your urge to
want to rebuild, become the great culture that I

know you all are. So you should at least trust
that we have similar interests in the end.

MATT: Make a persuasion check.

MARISHA: Ooh! 19!

SAM: Was that opal?

TALIESIN: Yes, it was.

MARISHA: Opal's back! 25.

MATT: 25. She reaches forward and extends a finger
that gently scrapes the bottom of the chin, not

too much to hurt, but to go across the skin and
pull your chin upward into the light of the fire a

little bit. "There is much wisdom in there for so
young a face. All right. There are not many

"options we have, either. Come. We will walk. And
at the very least, if you decide to flee, never return."

MARISHA: We can give you that word.

LAURA: Tooma. Are the Frigid Doom's armies around?
Will they see us?

MATT: "There are a handful of dregs that stayed
behind, but you tell me you wear many faces."

LAURA: We certainly don't want them to see ours.

SAM: What should we disguise ourselves as?

MATT: She points past, over your head, and goes,
"Tiny gnome, the faces of those that lead you here."

SAM: Okay, tiny is uncalled for, but I understand.
The faces of your tribe, of your clan. All right.

MATT: "Be glad you walk with one as wise."

MARISHA: Is she talking about me? That's awesome!

MATT: She begins to shuffle over, and you watch as
two of the dragonborn walk over and scoop her up

shoulder to shoulder, and she shrugs them off and
pushes them away. "I can walk myself." She begins

shuffling, and they separate and open. She walks
partway out as you guys stand there, and turns

around and beckons. "Well, come."

TRAVIS: We follow.

LAURA: Can you cast Seeming again?

SAM: I can do Seeming one more time. All right.

LAURA: Wait, if you cast Seeming, will we still be
able to get into the--

SAM: We've still got the mansion. Handicaps me a
bit, but I will cast Seeming again on the party

and do the same thing, except slightly different
colors and slightly less tail.

(laughter)

MATT: The larger dragonborn that let you in--

SAM: My tail nub is slightly larger than the rest.
It's a cube. It's a tail cube.

MATT: As the rest of the guards circle around and
begin to walk, a little bit of trepidation, but

going along with Tooma, the large one who let you
in goes, "Tooma. Are you certain?"

She turns around and goes, "Skork, there are few
things that are certain in this world. I am not

"long for it, but if we are not to seize the
opportunity of kinship, we miss the opportunity

"for survival. Is it a risk? Yes. Sometimes it's a
risk worth taking." And she keeps walking. The

rest of them gather behind, and the now-named
Skork gives a nod and continues walking along.

SAM: Have we heard of Skork?

MARISHA: Is that his name?

LAURA: He was the guy that we talked to right when
we got here.

MATT: Yeah. You guys are led out of the tunnel,
back into the freezing air. The wind has picked up

a bit, and you can now hear this low hum as it
hits certain portions of the cavern and causes low

vibrational whistles in the distance. The snow has
begun to fall a little heavier now, and as you

walk out, you can hear the crunch of your
footsteps as you're stepping through heavier and

heavier blankets of snow.

LAURA: Can I tell Tooma, as we walk out: P.S., if
that dragon comes back, we need to bolt.

MATT: She nods. "If that dragon comes back, we
never saw you, you never saw us."

LAURA: Thank you.

MATT: She's very slow, by the way. Your passage of
travel is about half speed as she leads the

charge, but everyone respectfully keeps in pace
with her.

SAM: Tooma, have you ever heard of a dragonborn
named Gern Blanston?

MATT: She thinks for a second. "That name has not
come to my mind, no."

SAM: Us neither.

MATT: Pushing on, it's gotten a little lighter in
the sky. You figure, based on your arrival, you

may have just come in at the cusp of dawn, and the
sun has now gotten higher in the sky. You're on

the entire opposite side of the planet now, so the
cycle has changed based on the location you're

currently in. Well, you had rested, actually. You
left in the morning. You would've gotten here--

actually, opposite of that. It's actually now
getting to dusk. Even though it's only been a

couple of hours of daylight that you've seen since
you woke up this morning, it's already beginning

to set, and the sky is getting darker.

LAURA: We lost a day, but the dragon will still
take the same amount of time.

LIAM: Ugh. I'm so tree-lagged, though.

MARISHA: I know. Always sucks going west to east.

MATT: You're led over a portion of the ravine,
ever so slowly, that lifts up, and then as you get

to the crest, it bends down into a far deeper and
wider portion of the ravine. This is now the

center part of this entire giant physical anomaly
that is this giant crack in the ground, and you

can see the bulk of the fallen city is in the
center of this area.

LAURA: Do we see any big trees around here?

MATT: You see a couple of larger trees that sprout
out from the rubble. There's ones that managed to

survive the impact of certain areas of stone,
though it looks like a lot of the bark has been

stripped, and they might not be alive that you can
see from this distance. There are smaller trees

towards the edge, and a few still protruding from
portions of the walls.

SAM: Note every tree as we walk by.

MARISHA: Yeah, I'm paying attention to the trees.
That's the biggest tree that's now closest to us.

Now that's the biggest tree that's now closest
to us. Now that one.

MATT: As you're led down into the ravine, you
reach this central structure, and you can already

see from this distance, as the snow falls, hitting
and covering the rocks, there are dozens and

dozens of those spikes of ice jutting out of the
rock, each with one or two various frozen corpses

impaled on them and left. At the top of this, you
can see a large cluster of ice that is in a

somewhat round gathering, and you can see--
actually, no, you don't see that. Sorry. A note

that will come into play in the future.

TRAVIS: Can I ask a question? The bodies on the
spikes. None of them look familiar, right?

MATT: You can keep watch as you go. You push
towards the center of the ravine, and upon the

large island of rubble, you begin to move, and it
takes a good 40, 50 minutes, an hour, to traverse,

a lot further than you would've expected in that
time period. Sorry, a lot less than you figured

you would traverse in that time, being weighed
down by Tooma's gait. However, the rubble begins

to subside, and you begin to see steps of ice. Not
perfect, carved steps, but elements of

encapsulated broken platforms of ice that act as
stairs. Vax, Vex, and Keyleth, as you guys begin

to move up the steps, and you especially, Vex, you
can see, with what little bit of light is

beginning to shine down through the ice, you can
see mounds and mounds of coins and jewel boxes and

many expensive knick-knacks and collections, all
below feet of solid ice, all clustered towards the

apex of this collapsed, ruined island.

LAURA: Tooma, is Vorugal having you collect all of
this?

MATT: "Vorugal sends us to pay the debt we owe for
being freed, yes. We scavenge. We spend our days

"searching for food, for the means to survive, and
finding what we can from the ruins of the broken

"Draconia."

LAURA: And when you can't find anything? What
then?

MATT: "These are the thoughts that consume me. It
is the reason you are still alive." Everyone make

a perception check.

SAM: Yeah, dog! 14!

MARISHA: 28.

TALIESIN: Natural 20.

SAM: That wasn't the golden snitch?

TALIESIN: No, I put the golden snitch away for the
evening.

LAURA: I got a natural 20 when I dropped it.
Giving up on it.

MATT: As you guys begin to approach, you can see
now the ice that encases the golden coins begins

to ripple upward, and it's getting harder and
harder to climb. You can see now, it comes to an

apex in this bowl-like formation, and as you get
to a point where it's harder to ascend, you can

see Tooma stops and sees that she can't go much
further, and she points up and goes, "That is

"where it sleeps. That is where we come to give
what we find. And that is where it should fall."

LAURA: What is its nature? Is it vain? Does it
want you to bow before it?

MATT: "It does not ask for kneeling. It asks for
fear and respect. It asks us to bring the most

"powerful creatures in the land for it to chase."

LAURA: Can I roll an insight check on her again?
Jesus. This is creepy. 27.

MATT: 27.

LIAM: So the box is full of loot?

SAM: No, it's a crate, Liam.

LIAM: The crate is full of boxes?

SAM: Yes. A crate full of boxes. Box Crate, our
best sponsor. Inside the boxes are tinier boxes.

LIAM: When do you get to the loot, though?

SAM: No, it's a Russian nesting doll of boxes and
crates.

LIAM: Box-box.

SAM: Box-box, and then inside is a box-crate, and
inside that is tiny-bag-crate.

LAURA: What are you guys talking about?

SAM: Liam! Do you want all those boxes?

LIAM: I need boxes.

SAM: You get $3 off the first box of boxes.
Crate-crate.

MATT: All right. So. "This is its home. This is
its shrine."

LAURA: Check for fucking traps before we go in
there.

SAM: Is it up? Is it down? Is it through?

MATT: The top comes into this giant bowl, this
platform of ice, and it's almost like a nest where

it sits.

TRAVIS: A big icy dog bed.

SAM: By the way, we've been in dragons' lairs
before, and the lairs themselves do things, right?

LIAM: Yes, with the dragon in them.

SAM: But when the dragon's not in them they don't
do anything?

LIAM: My sister and I are going to have a look
around. I have a question for you, though. If we

make a stand here today, in theory, is it worth it
to you to stand with us?

MATT: "If you feel confident. Otherwise, we walk
to our death prematurely."

LAURA: Yeah, let's not do that today. This is
reconnaissance.

TALIESIN: If all goes well, we will have one more
conversation.

LIAM: All right. I'm going to start searching the
ground for traps.

TALIESIN: I do have one other question: The bodies
on the spikes. How did that happen? What was that?

MATT: "When the islands fell, there was a great
fight of those that survived against the dragon.

"We did not join in, out of fear, and out of not
knowing which side would come out. Vorugal stayed

"behind as the other two flew. The dragon asked us
why we do not fight. We said, 'Because it is not

"'our place.' The dragon said, 'Well, your place is
now that of free kin.' The dragon summoned forth

"these spikes, and drove it through the hearts of
many of the Sky-walkers. Many of us cheered, for

"it was a symbol that many had wished to see for a
long time, but at the same time, the older ones of

"us... It was not what we wanted. It was not how we
wished to be freed. But we had no way of stopping

"him. As time went on, and with each surviving
Sky-walker that was found, there were no more

"cheers. Just the dread of knowing that maybe in
time, when all the spikes are filled, it may be us

"on them next."

TALIESIN: Thank you.

LIAM: 29. Looking for any traps.

MATT: Okay. You spend the next 15 minutes or so,
20 minutes, skirting around the outside of this

large frozen bowl, looking for some semblance of a
set trap. You don't recognize anything as any sort

of mechanism placed that would set off your
warning defense systems as a rogue.

LAURA: Can I stand on the top and look out from
the platform and see what is visible from the

platform and what areas seem hidden in the
landscape?

TALIESIN: I'm going to join you on that.

MATT: Both of you guys roll perception checks.

SAM: I have an idea.

TALIESIN: Natural 20.

MARISHA: Natural fucking 20.

LAURA: I don't even need to look. Good.

TALIESIN: You both saw that, right? That just
fucking happened. This is not my normal die. This

is something I bought at Comic Con.

MATT: Oh, it's not the dice anymore. We know that
you've somehow gained the favor of some Aztec

deity that's trying to reclaim its foothold in the
current-day pantheon through you.

TALIESIN: Sumerian, you asshole.

MATT: It would be Sumerian.

TALIESIN: I'm bringing a shrine to Burning Man, by
the way.

LAURA: Oh, this is pertaining to dragons!

MATT: No, this is more of an icy terrain.
Nevertheless, between the two of you keeping an

eye out, through this Marduk Enki-loving fool over
here--

TALIESIN: Bless you for knowing a Sumerian deity.

MATT: You look off and see that most of it, and
its design here is to be a sentry point. The

reason it's built over the structure is it has a
view of the entirety of this central open valley

in the ravine. There are nooks and crannies. There
are elements of ice that can be carved away. There

are small alcoves that could be out of sight,
lower beyond the ice steps and such, but there is

no extremely visible pockets or things that are
completely out of the visual sight from that

perch. It was designed specifically to be a place
to survey everything.

TALIESIN: Are there other perches?

MATT: From what you can see here? There are
outcroppings of stone and elements that jut out

naturally from the valley wall, but it's a wide
berth from each side.

TALIESIN: Does this seem like the only thing, or
would there be other sentry points, as well?

MATT: If flown to and held in, yeah. There are a
couple of other rock areas where the dragon would

be able to hold himself, but this is
definitively--

LIAM: Is this the highest?

MATT: Which one?

LIAM: The highest.

TRAVIS: The highest point.

TALIESIN: So we have a really good vantage right
now.

MATT: From here, yeah. This is the highest point
in the ravine.

TALIESIN: Do we see the orb? Do we see an orb?

MATT: Make an investigation check.

SAM: Can I help?

LAURA: We're all looking.

TALIESIN: There we go. See? That wasn't great.

SAM: 28.

TALIESIN: 11.

LIAM: 17.

LAURA: 16.

TRAVIS: Nine!

MATT: You guys take a while glancing about.
Nothing. Scanlan, you dart down and begin peering

up against the ice walls that surround it. Going
down into the actual scooping bowl of this dragon

nest, and looking down, you can see a little
glimmer of light that refracts at a different

angle than the rest of the ice. A spherical
surface is visible about two and a half feet

below.

SAM: Okay. Do we smash it? Do we use it to make a
crank call? What do we do with it? Steal it?

LAURA: They'll be able to scry on us for sure if
we steal it. They see us. The minute we looked

into Brimscythe's.

SAM: I could do a Vorugal voice and say: Thordak,
you're a cock!

TALIESIN: We don't actually know his voice.

SAM: I could say: Thordak, I'm in desperate need
of pay!

LAURA: Do you speak dragon?

SAM: I guess you'll have to do that. What do we
do? Do we break it so he can't communicate with

the outside? That way when we kill him, he can't
call for help.

TRAVIS: If we do, then we violate what we said we
were going to do.

SAM: What did we say we would to do? I have a
great idea for how to kill this fucker.

LAURA: You have a great idea of how to kill it?

SAM: Well, I have an idea. Tooma told us that they
bring animals to hunt. We could be one of those

animals and draw it to a certain spot.

TALIESIN: And draw it to a certain spot?

SAM: Where we kill it.

TALIESIN: With our...

SAM: With our army of fucking Draconians and our
ice thing that we've shaped into some sort of a trap.

TALIESIN: I get a distinct impression that it is
not impressed by ice.

SAM: Fire trap. Rock trap.

MATT: And you're saying this out loud amongst the
crew, right?

SAM: Just us.

MATT: Okay.

SAM: Oh shit.

MARISHA: The ears have walls.

LAURA: And also, you're right in front of the
scrying circle.

LIAM: It's buried by ice.

MARISHA: It's buried by ice, but that doesn't mean
it doesn't work.

MATT: As soon as you called them Draconians, there
were a few hisses from the nearby crew.

MARISHA: The Ravenites.

TALIESIN: Do they speak Common?

LIAM: Some of them do. We spoke to them in
Common.

LAURA: We spoke to Tooma in Common.

TALIESIN: Let's make a plan.

SAM: I just did. I made a plan. It's an ambush
plan.

TALIESIN: Okay, and then we go home and the
dragons are at war. Then what?

SAM: What do you mean, the dragons are at war?
There's only two more dragons at that point. We

killed three-fifths of them.

LAURA: If we attack one dragon, we start the war.
That is something we've been told over and over.

SAM: What does that even mean? We've already
attacked two dragons. There's been no war.

LAURA: Once one more is dead, they'll probably all
attack.

SAM: Attack what?

LIAM: They'll stop playing nice. They'll start
destroying.

SAM: We have to kill them at some point.

TALIESIN: Yes, and now is not that point.

LAURA: The greatest plan we have is what Grog came
up with, which is pitting them against each

other.

SAM: All right, so how do we use this orb to do
that right now?

MARISHA: Do we have to use the orb?

SAM: That's why we came here!

LAURA: We came here to find out what its lair
looked like.

TALIESIN: What we are going to need is we need to
sneak you in there, and we need you to take a

movement.

SAM: What does that mean?

LIAM: A poo, Scanlan.

SAM: I can't do it anymore.

LAURA and LIAM: What?!

SAM: I used my last magic poo to look at my
daughter.

LIAM: What a sentence! What a sentence.

LAURA: In every aspect, Scanlan, disgusting.

MATT: That's the next t-shirt.

TRAVIS: That's amazing. I used my last magic poo
to look at my daughter!

SAM: I need to know where she is. I need to know
she's okay. Gilmore can maybe make me some more

potion, but I haven't wanted to bother him about
it because he's busy keeping a shield around

Whitestone.

LAURA: Don't!

SAM: Shit.

LAURA: You didn't say that out loud. You did not
just say that out loud.

SAM: I said it in an accent.

MATT: That was out loud.

MARISHA: All right. Hang on. Let's think about
this for a minute.

LAURA: Can we just step away from the orb while we
talk?

MARISHA: Yeah, let's do that.

TALIESIN: We're not near the orb. We're near the
Draconians, aren't we?

TRAVIS and MARISHA: Ravenites.

MATT: They're still all gathered around the base.
They walked you here and they're basically

watching you set up for this ambush preparation or
gathering. They're not going to leave you to your

own devices. They're still not quite sure of
everything.

LAURA: Can we sketch what it looks like? I think
you should sketch, Percy.

SAM: We need to use this opportunity. We're never
going to be in this dragon's lair again! This is

it. Crack the thing. Set a trap. Burn it down.

TRAVIS: I have a suggestion.

SAM: Yes, Grog, you're the best.

TRAVIS: The white dragon is primal, right? He
likes to hunt creatures. We've got to go now. We

leave. We leave them alone. That way we're not in
danger, they're not in danger. We promise to come

back, not only with forces to help remove the
white dragon, but also with something for it to

hunt. That way we're not fighting it in its
fucking lair.

TALIESIN: We know a lot already.

SAM: I can pretend to be a beast.

TALIESIN: Scanlan, why would you bother to pretend
to be a beast? If he just finds you, he'll hunt

you and kill you.

TRAVIS: We know that there are people that will
work with us. We know what the terrain looks like.

We know what his lair looks like, which we don't
want to be in when we fight him. And we know how

to get him out of it, possibly. It's a pretty
successful trip.

LIAM: One possibility is we could come back with
Galdric, and he and I could play bait.

SAM: Galdric is the wolf, right?

LIAM: He's a big fucking wolf.

TALIESIN: We've made allies. We've got a look at
everything. We know the terrain, and we know the

political terrain.

LAURA: Maybe Urukat would want to come and fight a
dragon.

MARISHA: He might.

TALIESIN: I will also add that we can leave them
with something.

MARISHA: That's what I was thinking. Maybe this
isn't about destroying something. Maybe it's about

planting something. If we destroy anything, the
dragon's going to immediately blame the locals.

LAURA: What would we leave? I don't want them able
to scry on us.

TRAVIS: How about a little wine?

TALIESIN: How about a small grove of trees?

MARISHA: I could leave trees.

TRAVIS: They did want trees.

LAURA: I could leave trees, too.

MARISHA: We also have this Scrying Eye. Can I use
this remotely?

MATT: No, you have to have it in your hands to
utilize it.

TALIESIN: It's all right.

TRAVIS: I like the tree idea.

LAURA: Tooma, just in case something happens and a
big red dragon comes to pick a fight, everyone

hide. Get out of the way.

MATT: "I appreciate the advice. I can guarantee
you there would be no other course of action."

SAM: Can we carve in the lair "Thordak was here"
or something?

LIAM: They'll know it was you.

LAURA: I think we got the information--

TRAVIS: Tooma. Forgive me, I'm not the best
speaker, but we have learned from fighting these

dragons that if we fight them in their lair, we
are at a severe disadvantage.

MATT: "Then get it from its lair."

TRAVIS: We are of a mind on that.

LAURA: What kind of creatures do you offer to it
for hunt?

MATT: "It is growing bored with dire beasts. We've
even brought it to the ocean, where there were

"some great terrors beneath the sea, but it tore
them asunder. There are, northward, large

"segmented insect-like creatures they call the
remorhaz. That was a scuffle, but I fear the

"dragon grows bored."

SAM: Got to go find us a beast and bring it here.

TALIESIN: No, I've got a better idea.

LIAM: Spit it out.

TALIESIN: Once we've gathered some resources, when
we return, we prepare to attack post-hunt. Once it

has exhausted itself on something large and angry,
that is when we strike the dragon.

LAURA: How will we be able to communicate with
them, for them to let us know?

SAM: We'll be here the whole time.

TALIESIN: When we come back, we stay until it's
time. When we come back, it is to end this.

LIAM: For now, we leave a back-door entrance.

TALIESIN: With the trees, we will know how to
return quickly with a force.

MARISHA: This might be something we go to the
Slayer's Take for. They always have a roster of

big beasts.

TALIESIN: With a little bit of information, we
could even keep them informed of things for it to

kill that they may find around here, with the
Slayer's Take's help. We can keep you in supply of

things to amuse it.

MATT: "I trust you know what you say. These words
mean nothing to me."

TALIESIN: We are sorry that this cannot end as
quickly as would be agreeable. We can do our best

to help make you comfortable, and if you need some
proof of the power that we wield, we can offer a

token. I have a thought. But if you wish, a token
of our power.

MATT: "How about this. I trust you to return.
Let's set a time, so we know where the limits are.

"Eight days."

MARISHA: Wow. That's soon.

TALIESIN: We can send a beast before, perhaps, but
our travel is long. We may need more time. We have

two more continents.

MATT: "How much time do you need?"

LAURA and TALIESIN: Two weeks.

MATT: "Two weeks?"

TALIESIN: Continents. Further than you have walked
in your life. We move quickly, but there is only

so much that can be done.

MATT: "Two weeks. 14 sun cycles past. If we do not
hear from you, the Frigid Doom is known to this

"Whitestone you speak."

LAURA: Fucking shit balls, Scanlan.

LIAM: They're extorting us.

MATT: "Not extorting. Making sure you are of your
word, because otherwise you leave us here to die

"on promises that are fake and false."

LIAM: To-may-to, to-mah-to.

LAURA: We don't do that.

MATT: "Good. Then we'll see you before two weeks
is out."

LAURA: Yep.

MARISHA: I will leave you with a parting gift. I
will leave you with a grove of trees that should

be ever-growing and present.

LAURA: If you do that, he'll know something is
different.

MARISHA: He will.

TALIESIN: No. We plant one tree.

MARISHA: One?

TALIESIN: No, we have to plant some trees. Find a
place that is secret.

MARISHA: I can plant these trees anywhere. Just
need solid ground.

TRAVIS: If you can get away from the city--

MARISHA: I can possibly do it subterranean.

MATT: "There is solid ground here. Up there, above
the ravine, wherever else you need it to be."

MARISHA: Where does the dragon not tread? Where do
you know he will not see the trees?

MATT: "Probably out of the ravine. He stalks
inside quite extensively."

TALIESIN: Let's find a place. This will be where
we leave, anyway.

SAM: Tooma. I have one more question about Gern
Blanston. I raise the hand cone, and I cast

Modify Memory on her.

TRAVIS: Oh no. Oh jeez. Oh man, I love it.

LIAM: Look at Matt's face.

MATT: Okay.

LAURA: We're about to get attacked.

TALIESIN: No, we're about to run.

LIAM: Can I roll my initiative in advance?

MATT: There we go. All right, what's the DC?

SAM: 21.

MATT: What are you trying to do?

SAM: I'm trying to change the moment that I said
"Whitestone" into "Emon."

MATT: You watch as she leans in, and she shakes
her head for a minute and goes, "What was your

"question? I do not know these words you speak."

SAM: Candles. Have you ever met a candle-maker?

MATT: "I know not of a candle-maker."

TALIESIN: I do have a request on our way out.

MATT: "What is your request?"

TALIESIN: Would the dragon notice if any of these
bodies were disturbed?

MATT: "Many, yes. But small amounts... why? If you
wish to take what they have, they mean nothing to

"us. One or two turned over will make no difference
to the dragon."

TALIESIN: Pull that one down, then.

MATT: "Right." She points to it. Some of the
Ravenites come over and haul one of the corpses

off of the spike. It breaks off and snaps, and
they bring it and throw it to the ground and step back.

TALIESIN: Thank you. (sighs) It is exactly what I
expect, I would assume.

MATT: The robes are familiar. The scale color is
familiar.

TALIESIN: I look it over. I check.

MATT: There, locked in the moments of valiant
defense of his city, frozen and lost, the remains

of Tiberius Stormwind, left a hero defending his
people, defaced by Vorugal the Frigid Doom.

TALIESIN: Let's bring him inside, at least.

TRAVIS: Yeah. I go and I gather the remains.

MATT: They are stiff and frozen, but light enough
for you to carry.

LIAM: Where are we taking him?

TALIESIN: I don't know. The remnants of the
library, perhaps. The ground's too hard to bury.

MARISHA: We can't even pretend like he was our
friend.

TALIESIN: No. We absolutely cannot.

TRAVIS: I have a horrible thought. If we move him,
will the dragon know we were here?

SAM: Was he on one of those stakes?

TALIESIN: He was. No, I checked. Unless he's very
clever and very keen, and I don't think they are.

I think that if they knew, he would be in a more
exalted position of defacement. I think this is

just slaughter. Things vanish. I'm all right with
making this vanish. That's as much of a calling

card as I feel we need to leave.

TRAVIS: Where should we bring him?

SAM: His home doesn't really exist anymore.

MARISHA: His home was with us.

LAURA: Back to Emon.

TALIESIN: I have a thought.

LIAM: To our keep. It was very important to him.

SAM: This is his place.

TALIESIN: We're not bringing him to us. We're
leaving him here, but we're putting him somewhere

appropriate.

LIAM: We'd take him away. Can you melt ice and
snow, and we'll lay him here?

TALIESIN: Put him with the books.

LAURA: He always loved them.

SAM: For now, anyway. And then when we free this
place, we can find a proper tomb for him.

TRAVIS: We take him back to where the frozen books
lay.

MATT: You find the remnants of the library. As you
find a section of the stone rubble that's loose

enough, you pull it open, and there beneath, you
can see there are hundreds and hundreds of books,

many still pristine, if a little soggy from the
melted snow. You gather a lot of time was spent in

this library in his youth, and it's probably as
good a place as any to leave his memory for the time.

LAURA: Are any of the Ravenites around us, or are
we alone?

MATT: They're keeping their distance, but they're
watching. You get the sense that they understand

what's going on, but they're not taking any
offense to it.

TALIESIN: This will do.

LIAM: I start pulling books out.

MARISHA: I start melting ice.

LAURA: Is Lockheed still on my shoulder?

MATT: Lockheed is still on your shoulder.

LAURA: I bring him down so he can say goodbye.

MATT: As the ice melts, color comes to the body.
You can see the tattered robes that show a fierce

battle was fought. Regardless of this condition of
finding him, knowing him as well as you did, he

still probably left a hero. As you lay him down on
the books, mostly thawed now, Lockheed finds a

moment of recognition and immediately flutters
onto his chest and curls up, mews a bit, nibbles

at the chin.

LIAM: I'm going to sit three or four feet away
from him, facing him, and start privately thanking

the Raven Queen for ushering him on.

TRAVIS: I'm going to take a chalice out of the bag
of holding, and I begin to fill it with ale, and

then remember he preferred water, and I take the
alchemy jug and I pour fresh water into the

chalice and lay it with him.

MARISHA: I take and I rip off a piece of his
robes. Tuck it away.

TALIESIN: Can you seal it?

MATT: As you guys step back, the nearby stone
clatters to life.

LAURA: I get Lockheed out of there. I don't want
him to stay in. Do you want to come?

MATT: Lockheed resists and resists and doesn't
want to leave.

LAURA: In Draconic I say: It's all right.

MATT: Lockheed curls up onto his face and nibbles
a bit on the forehead, then turns back and

flutters up onto your shoulder. The stonework
clatters closed over the top of the rubble of the

library.

MARISHA: Keyleth drops to her knees and starts
crying.

MATT: Vax. In this moment of sadness, there is a
bit of warmth, as you sense, though remote as it

is through the Divine Gate, the Raven Queen's
assurance that his spirit has made it to the other side.

LAURA: I put my hand on Keyleth's shoulder. He
loved you well, princess.

MARISHA: He was so stupid.

LIAM: He meant well.

TALIESIN: I'm going to find Tooma. Is she behind
us?

MARISHA: He should have never left our side.

TALIESIN: Hopefully, this war will go on schedule.
But there's our promise. That's the best you're

going to get. I head out.

MARISHA: I follow Percy.

SAM: I turn around and say: Goodbye, old friend.
We'll come back and we'll fix this. Because this

is... poppycock.

MATT: As you gather yourselves up, here amongst
the ruins of Draconia, the last of the sky's

light, the sun has faded and the night has taken
its form. You hear the distant caws of the evening

birds as they begin to take to the skies above the
ravine. Tooma and the rest of the Ravenites give a

nod as you join hands. Keyleth?

MARISHA: Let's go home.

TALIESIN: Yes, let's. There's much to do.

MARISHA: Back to Whitestone.

LAURA: Were you going to leave a tree?

MARISHA: Yeah.

TALIESIN: We let them know where the grove would
be found, before we left them.

MARISHA: I do Plant Growth. Make a big old tree.

MATT: All righty. Where do you create the tree?

MARISHA: Wherever we decided it was best to create
the tree.

LAURA: Outside of the ravine.

TALIESIN: At the top. A little grove of trees.

MATT: Which, with a simple use of the broom or
wild shape, you can make your way up there, find a

small patch of bushes, create a single tree that
didn't exist there previously, a small sapling now

grown to full height. The bastion of a promise to
be kept. Keyleth returns. You take hands. You step

through the nearest tree as the portal opens, and
find yourself emerging from the other side of the

Sun Tree, back in Whitestone.

MARISHA: I give the Sun Tree a little pat.

MATT: The morning sun begins to rise.

TALIESIN: We'll report what we've seen. We'll try
to gain our bearings again, get sleep tonight.

We'll report what we've seen in the new room. No
one else. And we will never utter this city's name

outside these walls again.

SAM: Totally. Dick move.

MATT: You find yourselves to rest, keeping
memories fresh untill sleep takes you.

MARISHA: Knock on Vax's door.

SAM: Oh god.

MATT: All right. As everyone else is going to
rest, Keyleth, you find your way to Vax's door.

MARISHA: Can I stay with you tonight?

LIAM: I don't fuck anything up with words, and I
open the door.

SAM: What?

LIAM: I'm not going to fuck it up by saying
anything. I open the door.

MARISHA: I just go in.

MATT: Whether or not you are taking the time to
sleep or ruminate on the events, as it's only been

half a day since last you woke up, you take some
time with Lockheed. He eats a little more food and

leaps to the window of your room, and then takes
off over the rest of Whitestone.

You process this time, this moment, this memory,
and realize how much has been lost through this

journey, but yet how much is worth saving. How
much is worth fighting for. And then, as much as

you bunch of fuck-up misfits that came together as
friends years ago have come to a point of

understanding your true worth and what the
importance is of really standing up for the things

that you believe in in this world, and the people
that need protecting, and know that the next step

of your journey should come soon. Whether you
stand or fall, this is the fight that needs to be

fought. And with luck be at your side, that
terrible fucking dragon will meet its end soon

enough.

And with that we'll pick up next week on
Thursday.

TALIESIN: Glad we decided to take a light-hearted
game.

SAM: It's a fun romp after the Feywild, a fun
romp.

LIAM: Bar hop! Bar crawl!

MARISHA: I need a stiff drink.

MATT: I was simultaneously looking forward to and
not looking forward to the return to Draconia for

that reason.

LAURA: Man.

MATT: We'll pick it up next week, guys.

MARISHA: Yay.

MATT: I'm sorry. Sorry, guys. Sorry to you.

LAURA: Thanks, Loot Crate.

SAM: $3 discount.

TRAVIS: Pour one out for Tibs. We will be.

MATT: Not all narrative is bright, but it has its
purpose.

SAM: We're next.

(laughter)

MATT: We love you guys. Thank you for sticking
through us for an emotionally draining evening.

We'll be back next Thursday to see the next length
of Vox Machina's journey. Is it Thursday yet? Good night.