MATT: Welcome, everyone, to tonight's episode of
Critical Role, where a bunch of us nerdy-ass voice

actors sit around, roll dice, and play Dungeons
and Dragons. We are back after a week hiatus in

which we were at San Diego Comic-Con!

(cheering)

MATT: We are recovering, some more than others,
from Comic-Con. But we had a great time. Fantastic

turnout. It was great to meet all those wonderful
Critters that got out there, you guys were

awesome. The panels were sufficiently ridiculous. And
yeah, it was a good time had by all. If you

weren't there, I know Geek and Sundry put up the
panels, the videos from the panels up on the

website, geekandsundry.com, so you can check them
out there. Speaking of cool events, we're actually

going to be at GenCon next week.

SAM: What?

MATT: I know, it's crazy! I am at a series of
panels all throughout the weekend, many of them

voiceover-related.

LAURA: Because you're special.

MATT: Because my manager got to them first.

(laughter)

MATT: We're going to have signings I believe on
Friday, or is it Friday or Saturday?

LAURA: Saturday.

MATT: Saturday, we'll have signings--

MARISHA: In which we have a new poster.

LAURA: It is exclusive to GenCon, the same way we
did our exclusive for New York Comic-Con poster

last year.

MARISHA: Also designed by Joma, aka
@ForgingMeanings on Twitter. So yeah, it's our

next iteration of our box art poster.

TRAVIS: Whoa! It is sexy!

MARISHA: The advanced edition, y'all.

MATT: Yeah. I will say that the last poster was
based heavily on the Underdark arc and the coming

battle with K'Varn. This one has to do with a
later arc in the story. So there's that coming up,

we're excited about that, and then we have our
Critical Role live show that Saturday at 8pm

Eastern Time.

SAM: Tickets are still available online, post the
link right now in the chat, someone, please.

(laughter)

TRAVIS: That's going to be some insane audience.

MATT: We'd love to see you guys. Partially because
we don't get out to the middle eastern side of the

US as often as we'd like, and this is our first
time at GenCon, which has been my gaming mecca for

so long. Should be a fun way to roll it in. So
come check in the next chapter that'll continue

after tonight's episode, at GenCon, and hope to see
you there. We have our sponsor tonight for this

episode of Critical Role, returning favorite in
Backblaze, who previously popped in to say hello.

Sam, if you want to say a few words.

SAM: Backblaze is back, everybody. I've already
composed a song about it. It goes like this:

(singing) Everybody, yeah. Backup your data, yeah.
Upload your local files to an encrypted

cloud-based backup storage system, yeah. Backblaze
back, all right! (speaking) That was good!

MATT: That was a thing that happened.

SAM: Backblaze is unlimited cloud backup for Macs,
PCs, for just $5 a month. You can back up your

fanart there, your fanfiction, the dirty stuff,
photos, videos, drawings, documents, it's

everything. I actually use this service. My stuff
is continually uploading to the cloud and I always

know it's there for when my hard drive crashes,
they'll send you a new one in the mail--

TRAVIS: They'll mail you one?

SAM: They can mail you one. It's all kinds of
crazy options.

LIAM: Think of the gigs of erotica that could just
exist out there.

SAM: And Critters get a fully-featured 15-day free
trial at backblaze.com/criticalrole. So go check

it out, keep that song in the back of your mind
when you do.

(laughter)

SAM: And they also made a little commercial for
us.

LAURA: Oh yeah, I just love them so much.

MARISHA: I know, it's so great.

MATT: Well cool, thank you very much, Sam.

SAM: Do you want to hear the song again?

(groaning)

TRAVIS: Can we please? I'll give you some of my
beef and broccoli.

LAURA: It smells really good.

MATT: Next item: for anyone who wants any of the
information about our GenCon panels events and

signings and such, you can go to
geekandsundry.com/CRLiveGenCon16.

LAURA: That's long. It should be in the chat
room.

MATT: Should be in the chat room, check it out,
definitely go there. And tonight is the last night

for you guys to pre-order the Critter-designed
T-shirt, the Chroma Conclave shirt that you guys

voted for that won our design contest.

SAM: Twice. It won it twice.

LAURA: It's beautiful.

MATT: So if you're interested in grabbing that,
tonight's your last night, and you should just do

it now. Soon. Do we have anything else we wish to
announce, anything else creeping up?

LAURA: Travis and I are seeing Hamilton this
weekend. What?

TRAVIS: It is an announcement. We're seeing
Hamilton on Saturday.

LIAM: Is there any other shitty bragging anyone
else would like to do?

TRAVIS: Javier Mu≈Ñoz and I are going to be best
friends, and then I'm going to go to dinner with

George Washington. I'm going to shave his head.
It's going to be awesome.

MATT: You have this all planned out.

LAURA: Yeah, we really do. He's written some
fanfiction about it. You just wait.

MATT: Which you can save on your Backblaze
account.

(laughter)

TRAVIS: It's there!

MATT: Indeed. All right then, that being the case,
let us dive into the insanity of the Feywild in

tonight's episode of Critical Role.

[dramatic music]

MATT: Welcome back, everybody. So. Getting us into
the story for this evening, the backstory of the

current episode. Vox Machina, in attempting to
find ways to topple and destroy the Chroma

Conclave, have found their way around the world
seeking items called the Vestiges of Divergence,

artifacts of great power that should aid them in
their attempt to take down Thordak the Cinder

King, the red dragon who now sits lording over the
central town of Emon at the center of Tal'Dorei.

Their recent journey has brought them into the
Feywild, a pseudo-parallel plane of fey magic,

chaos, and all sorts of goodness in between.
They've wandered through, met an old friend in

Nala, the nymph of the lake. Discovered a
fantastically artistically talented satyr by the

name of Garmelie, and had a trip to the city of
Syngorn, the elven city from Tal'Dorei which had

phased into this realm for safety when the dragons
of the Conclave attacked. After a fateful

re-meeting with the parents of Vex and Vax,
discussions were had, hats were attempted to be

stolen by the leader of the city and successfully
done so. The other half of agreements were

pseudo-achieved.

TALIESIN: Read your contract.

MATT: And they made their way northward through
the ever-shifting grasses to the outskirts of the

Moonbrush, a heavy, heavy, forested wood that will
lead them to their destination after that, which

is the Gilded Run, a series of rivers that wrap
around their final destination, the Shademirk Bog,

where apparently this Vestige exists.

So. Diving in where we were. The last time, you
guys had managed to wander a few hours into the

southern portion of the forest of the Moonbrush.
Coming through, you realize that, as opposed to

the rest of the Feywild you've encountered so far,
which exists in a perpetual dusk, there is an

actual starry sky and moonlight poking through of
a full moon at portions of the canopy of this

forest. Cruising ever forward, you stumbled upon
what looked like some sort of a cave or cavern

with a series of small stone and wooden trinkets
and gifts that were left outside, as well as

carved bones and rotting fruits, and you came to
realize that these were probably left for the

spiritual entity that lived and existed within
this cavern.

Upon some of these gifts being disturbed, the bear
attacked, and Vex'ahlia summoned forth Trinket,

her faithful companion bear. A battle took place,
putting Trinket in a difficult position, but upon

a brief discussion with this spirit bear, had
proven himself a worthy entity, and was bestowed a

boon, further solidifying the bond between
Vex'ahlia and her faithful companion, Trinket.

And that was where we left off.

SAM: Didn't you just get some card or something
right at the end of--

LAURA: Yeah, I did.

SAM: Did we know what it was?

LAURA: Yeah, I did.

TALIESIN: It was a free $50 coupon for Lyft.

LAURA: What I'm really excited about is that card
was at the live show, and it is not in my stuff

right now, but I did.

MATT: She reaches for the necklace around her
neck, which is suddenly not there.

LAURA: No! I do, however, still have my title.

TRAVIS: You guys are still by yourselves, right?
You two?

MARISHA: Are Vex and I still separated?

MATT: No, the trees have relaxed, the canopy has
reopened above the small clearing, and the rest of

the party, you can now see Vex on her back on the
ground, Trinket standing over her towards the

cavern, and Keyleth pulled back, looking a bit
shocked and confused.

MARISHA: And is Oralan still there? Is that his
name?

MATT: The bear spirit? The bear spirit, upon
passing through Vex and Trinket, then dissipated

into a spark of naturalized druidic magic and
vanished.

MARISHA: So we're alone?

MATT: You are now alone in the center of that
clearing.

SAM: Oh my gods, what just happened?

(laughter)

LAURA: Everything's under control. We're alive.

SAM: I heard growling. Did the bear try to kill
you? I mean Trinket.

LAURA: No, yeah, Trinket tried to kill me, but
don't worry, everything's fine.

MARISHA: Really glad you learned how to speak with
animals.

LAURA: Me too! Keyleth, can you open up the trees
so our friends can get in?

MARISHA: Who? Our what? Who?

LAURA: Aren't we blocked off?

MATT: The trees have laxed and reopened.

LAURA: I was busy looking for my card. And I found
it. Hi guys, my name is Vex'ahlia. Cool, yes,

we're good. Can I search for that tea set that I
tried to give him?

SAM: Tea set? What just happened?

MATT: Make an investigation check.

LAURA: Cool. Balls. Off to a good start.

TALIESIN: I'd like to take a look in the cave as
well a little bit.

MATT: Okay.

LAURA: Ten.

MATT: Okay, yeah, it takes you a little bit, about
ten minutes or so. Parts of it got scattered and

lost amongst the rest of the objects left around,
but you manage to reassemble your collection of

tea accessories.

LAURA: Yeah, cool, it was a golden cursed tea
set.

TRAVIS: Nobody else is concerned about the
commotion that happened behind the trees, and

we're all just like "Hi." What happened?

LAURA: There was a big fucking bear. You might
actually not want to look in that cave, because it

came out of there and it was rather angry when it
did.

LIAM: What it? What came out?

LAURA: A guardian spirit of the forest.

TALIESIN: Just observing the entrance to see if
there's anything written, any type of language on

any of the entrances or otherwise.

MATT: Make an investigation check.

MARISHA: As a druid would I know about guardian
animal spirits?

LAURA: Yeah, would we have heard anything about
this in our studies?

MATT: In your studies? No. You, make a history
check.

MARISHA: That's not my strong suit, man.

MATT: We'll go with nature.

MARISHA: Oh that's better, okay. 23.

TALIESIN: 21.

MATT: There are no markings that currently are
visible around the entrance or exit of the cavern

itself. It is carved, however, meaning that this
cavern, whether it be natural or not, this

entrance has been touched by humanoid hands and
has been refined. You, Keyleth, do know that

occasionally on the Material Plane there are
entities, spiritual energies, that gather based on

worshipping specific fey spirits and these
creatures over time, these spiritual energies,

begin to take the form that their worshipers give
them. It takes a long time for this transition to

happen, and essentially these guardian spirits,
usually guarding some sort of a powerful fane, or

a magical core or center, they become protector
spirits of that region.

MARISHA: So because people just manifested the god
as a bear, it slowly turned into a bear?

MATT: It turned into a bear. And they're not gods
per se, but they're powerful entities that guard

that element.

MARISHA: Spirit guardians. Okay.

TRAVIS: What's in the cave?

LAURA: What's in the cave, Keyleth?

MARISHA: Nothing now, I don't think.

LAURA: There was a spirit bear in there.

LIAM: It was a bear?

LAURA: It was a big fucking bear, yeah.

MARISHA: It was made out of stars and space
stuff.

TRAVIS: Are you sure you haven't been eating
mushrooms or something?

LAURA: Trinket popped out and he saved us.
Trinket fucking saved us, Scanlan!

SAM: Pics or it didn't happen.

(laughter)

TRAVIS: That's exactly what I was thinking.

LIAM: I go over to Trinket and I surreptitiously
start feeding him biscuits-- you don't know--

biscuits that I took from my father's house. Good
boy, that's a good boy. Good job.

MATT: They're gone in a matter of moments. Licks
the side of your face, leaving some saliva and crumbs.

LIAM: I will always give you that shit. Don't
forget.

MARISHA: Percy, did you find anything in the
cave?

TALIESIN: Nothing of consequence.

TRAVIS: How far in did you go?

TALIESIN: No, that looks dark and there was a
giant cosmic bear in there.

MARISHA: Would I know if after the spirit guardian
has passed, would he just go back in his cave?

MATT: You don't know that much about the entity.
You've never really encountered one before, you've

only heard about them.

LAURA: What about Garmelie. Would he know?

MATT: You're welcome to ask him if you want to.

LAURA: Hey, Garmelie. What do you know about this
fucking bear?

MATT: He's in the very back, just watching you
guys. "I know what you know. It's apparently here

"and people leave him little presents, and seemed
pretty scary from the way you describe him, so--"

TRAVIS: Did you know he was going to be here at
this cave?

MATT: "No, I would have avoided this!"

TRAVIS: Somebody insight check that little
bastard.

LAURA: Yeah, I'll insight check that little
bastard.

MATT: Roll insight.

TRAVIS: I would do it, but eh.

LAURA: 18.

MATT: 18? He seems like he's telling the truth.
He's hard to read in general because he's such a

strange individual, but yeah.

LAURA: I feel like he would've told us to avoid
it.

MARISHA: And bears are fairly territorial. I don't
know, it might be wise to stay out of the cave.

TALIESIN: I think in general it's probably best to
respect anything's home on this plane of

existence.

TRAVIS: Boring. Scanlan, you want to go in?

SAM: If you do.

LIAM: We're not here to go spelunking. Why are we
going to go in this cave?

TRAVIS: Oh my god, we're in the Feywild, we're
about to pull a bow out of a tree, and you don't

want to see what's in the creepy cave.

LAURA: Maybe we should save our strength for the
fucking bow in the tree.

LIAM: Plus, do you know there's a theater here?

MATT: "We're not going to the theater."

LIAM: I understand, but just so we don't
accidentally go there, where is it in relation to

this tree? Is it on the way?

MATT: "I couldn't tell you. Certain things move.
Shift. Change location."

SAM: It's a touring production.

LIAM: I don't trust anyone who doesn't like the
theater. What exactly is your issue with it?

MATT: "Don't worry about it. Anyway. Shall we?"
And he begins marching back.

LAURA: I really don't think we should mess with
this thing.

MARISHA: Look, Grog, I touched a flower and the
whole realm almost collapsed, okay? I don't know.

TRAVIS: I know, I'm looking at the scandalous one
over there that's always trying to get little

goodies for himself.

TALIESIN: I'm not feeling this one. I don't know.
What can I tell you? I normally like to gamble and

I'm not feeling a gamble on this one.

TRAVIS: All right, you went (boop). I'm just
saying.

TALIESIN: It's just not pretty enough. It's really
not pretty enough. We've already won something here.

TRAVIS: All right, fine. I'm happy.

SAM: I'm one hundred percent behind any decision
you made or make, by the way. You say "go," we go.

You say "stay," we stay.

TRAVIS: What if we run, touch the back of the
cave, run back. We don't even have to pick up

anything. Just to say we did it.

MARISHA: Last time I touched something, I didn't
hear the end of it. And now we're just going to

let this happen?

TALIESIN: Well, yes, because we don't care if they
die.

TRAVIS: What, all the bad shit already came out of
it, what do you say?

SAM: By that logic, mathematically there's no more
bad shit in there.

TALIESIN: Is there anybody here of reasonable
intelligence who wants to stop this from

happening? Just checking.

LIAM: I don't think that we should do anything. It
does seem like a bit of a double standard that

everybody threw poo at Keyleth for picking a
flower.

TALIESIN: (deadpan) Please, whatever you do, don't
do it, my god please.

TRAVIS: I know, he's got the raised eyebrows. I'm
not sure if we should do it or not.

MATT: I'm just enjoying the conversation. Make
your choices.

MARISHA: You do you, man. You do you, guys.

TALIESIN: If you're going to do it, have a light
source.

TRAVIS: What, ten or higher we go?

SAM: Ten or higher we go.

TRAVIS: Natural 20.

SAM: (laughing) We're so going.

TRAVIS: I put Scanlan on my back, and we run
straight into the cave.

TALIESIN: I hand a torch.

TRAVIS: I don't want any torch. I've got
darkvision!

MATT: They go darting into the cave, vanishing
into the shadows and out of sight. The two of you

continue for about 30, 40, 50, 60 feet.
Thankfully, both of you have darkvision, so you

can see pretty well in this area. You can see what
are a number of alcoves that are carved into the

sides of the rock here that contain extinguished
candles, sometimes clusters of them, that are left

in here in some sort of ceremonial way, but have
just burned out or not been lit in a long time. It

goes straight back; there's no curvature or
natural change in the path of this cavern.

You get about 100 feet into the foot of this
spire-like mountain, one of many that protrude

from the center of the Moonbrush, and the chamber
widens and comes to an end, a circular pocket at

the end, about maybe 40 feet across on each side.
The floor of this room is entirely covered in

unlit candles, except for in the center there is a
raised stone platform that contains a singular

skull made of some sort of a bluish or aquamarine
crystal.

SAM: That's not what I was expecting.

TRAVIS: Jackpot.

SAM: Jackpot?

TRAVIS: We are the greatest ones in the group. Are
the candles standing up or are they laying over?

MATT: They're standing up.

SAM: We can't take the skull.

MATT: It's a large skull, it's like this big, and
its elongated snout--

SAM: Oh, it's an animal skull.

MATT: It's a beast-like skull.

TALIESIN: Is it a bear skull?

TRAVIS: We have not said anything to the rest of
the group.

TALIESIN: Oh, I thought they were saying this out
loud.

SAM: Can I discern what kind of animal skull it
is?

MATT: Make a nature check.

TRAVIS: Can I do one, as well?

MATT: Sure. Yeah, you would. Yeah, as a traveling
herd member, you would know cleaning creatures and stuff.

SAM: Eight.

MATT: You have no idea what creature this is. It
does look bestial in nature.

LIAM: Are you dead yet?

SAM: Still alive. Everything's okay. It's all gold
and silver.

TRAVIS: Yeah, there's nothing that moves in here.

MARISHA: Keyleth talks to the rest who stayed out.
Okay, Percy, do you have an hourglass thing?

TALIESIN: No, but I can keep very good count,
though.

MARISHA: We should play that gambling game.

TALIESIN: All right.

MARISHA: Okay. I bet-- how much gold do I have?

LAURA: How much gold do you have?

MARISHA: Three gold.

LAURA: That's it?

TALIESIN: We keep taking it from her.

MARISHA: That's true. That we have to run in after
and save them.

LIAM: I don't want to take that bet.

MARISHA: You're going to take that bet?

LIAM: No, I don't want to take that bet because
I agree with you.

TALIESIN: I'll take that bet. I'll take a
three-gold bet.

MARISHA: Okay. That they come out safe and sound?

TALIESIN: 200 seconds.

MARISHA: 200 seconds. All right.

MATT: Meanwhile, inside the cave, the two of you
now stand at the edge of this room filled with

small, wax structures and wicks that are currently
cold in the darkness, and the central platform

holding the crystalline skull in the center.

TRAVIS: In that circular area, is there anything
on the back wall? More candle sconces?

MATT: You can't make out any details. It looks
like somewhat rough cavern walls, but not very

smoothly carved or anything.

TRAVIS: And the skull is big, like the size of my
chest?

MATT: It's probably a little bit smaller than
that.

SAM: Made of gems or stone or bone?

MATT: It looks almost like it was carved and
hollowed from a singular giant solid piece of opal

or aquamarine. Like it's a gemmed skull in the
sense that it's made from gem material.

TRAVIS: Does it look like it could have been a
bear skull?

MATT: You don't know, mister nature-roll-of-12.

SAM: Oh god.

TRAVIS: Well.

SAM: Listen, Grog. I don't think it's very
valuable.

TRAVIS: No, but look at it!

SAM: It's pretty amazing.

TRAVIS: We're in a secret chamber.

SAM: This is cool. But what would we do with it?
We can't trade it.

TRAVIS: I bet they worshiped it.

SAM: I bet something still worships it. And that
thing could come back and be mad if we take it.

TRAVIS: Are there a crapload of footprints on the
ground around us?

MATT: Make a perception check.

TRAVIS: 13.

MATT: It's hard to tell. You've arrived, both
paced in your space there, so there are plenty of

footprints that you guys have left. It's hard to
see if there are any more recent ones are from

other creatures.

TRAVIS: Want to take a candle as a souvenir?

SAM: I wouldn't mind getting a closer look at that
skull.

TRAVIS: Yeah. Well, let's do that, then.

LIAM: 100 seconds have gone by.

SAM: We can't walk over there without disturbing
candles, right?

MATT: Probably not, unless you're ballet-style en
pointe.

TRAVIS: I can throw you. Taking it back to the old
school. That's a little careless.

SAM: I can grab it. I do have a big hand.

TRAVIS: That's like getting your hand on it right
away. It's pushing the button.

SAM: What do we do? Do we just leave and come up
with a good story?

TRAVIS: Ooh. Yeah.

SAM: Okay. Here, how about this: let me cut your
face.

TRAVIS: Okay.

SAM: When we run out, you'll be bleeding and
crying, and it'll be horrible. And we'll just make

something up.

TRAVIS: Okay. (laughing) Perfect. Are you ready to
go?

SAM: Yeah. Yeah, sure.

TRAVIS: We take off-- wait, you've got to cut me.
Wait, where are you going to cut me?

SAM: Right above the eyebrow so there's lots of
blood, yeah.

TRAVIS: Yeah, right in the middle, like the Bruce
Willis cut. Okay.

MATT: Ah, Sir Bruce Willis of Emon. Dangerous life
he led in history.

TRAVIS: But not too deep, right? I want to be able
to still make the ladies swoon.

SAM: Okay, cool. I'll take out my-- not
Mythcarver.

TRAVIS: Why not? You were going to cut me with a
Vestige?

LIAM: You're going to roll a 20 and decapitate
him.

SAM: I take out my other longsword. My Aberration
Bane longsword.

MATT: (laughing) Are you an aberration?

SAM: I'll slice him right over one of the
eyebrows.

MATT: Okay. You take one point of damage, and the
goliath blood doth flow aplenty.

TRAVIS: (grunting) Are you ready? Let's sell this
shit. And I put him on my back and we take off

running! (yelling) Oh, it's horrible!

SAM: (yelling) There are bears everywhere! Bears!
Little bears, big bears!

TRAVIS: We burst out into the sunlight, and I
intentionally trip and eat shit. Scanlan goes

flying, boom!

SAM: There was a bear right on Grog!

TRAVIS: Oh my god! It was so vicious.

SAM: It was horrible.

LAURA: You didn't fight them at all?

TRAVIS: No, there were bodies everywhere!
Children! Women! They were stapled to the ceiling!

And then there were just horrible--

MARISHA: So did the bear only have one claw?

MATT: Make a deception check.

LIAM: This guy wants to go to the theater.

TRAVIS: 15.

MATT: I'll have the rest of you roll an insight
check.

MARISHA: This is the lucky one.

LIAM: Oh man, that sounds scary.

LAURA: 23.

MARISHA: 27.

TALIESIN: Nine.

SAM: I was in the mouth of a bear, and Grog cut
the thing from asshole to lips to get me out of

there. It was crazy!

LAURA: That's disgusting. So there was really
nothing there?

MARISHA: I think that means you owe me three gold,
Percy.

TALIESIN: (sighing) Oh, bloody hell.

SAM: Did you bet to see whether we would live or
die?

TALIESIN: No, not at all.

LAURA: What did you really find in there?

SAM: Some candles.

LAURA: Yeah?

TRAVIS: And a big skull.

SAM: Big skull. A gemmed skull. Not gemmed. A
gem-like skull. Not diamonds, not rubies. Opal.

Something.

TRAVIS: We reached out to touch it and it cut my
face.

LAURA: That sounds terrible. I wish Pike was here;
she would really enjoy this story.

SAM: It was a worthless endeavor. We're sorry we
went.

LIAM: Hey, how about that Chroma Conclave, eh?

TALIESIN: Wait, so the candles and skulls were
there, or they weren't there?

TRAVIS: Yeah, there were a ton of candles and a
skull.

SAM: Seems like a place of worship or devotion,
and we didn't want to mess with it.

MARISHA: Well a lot of these spirit guardians tend
to have worshipers, and a lot of times they'll

bring them gifts, so that makes sense. Yeah, I
probably should have told you guys that before you

went in, sorry.

TRAVIS: There's only one show in a day; we don't
want to miss it.

LAURA: I like how all of us sound like we've lost
our voice.

MARISHA: Yeah, it sounds like we've all been
through hell. Okay.

TRAVIS: Well, since I touched the skull and I cut
myself, could you do me a little. (clicks tongue)

LAURA: You want me to lick it?

TRAVIS: No, don't you have a thing?

LAURA: Like healing? Like you want me to use a
whole spell on this teensy-ass wuss cut?

TRAVIS: If you care about me.

LAURA: I cast Cure Wounds on his little
teeny-weeny cut.

TRAVIS: Oh, that feels so much better.

SAM: Vex, what do you think, is a semi-precious
gemstone skull worth going in and getting?

LAURA: I think we should remember this place is--
well, it's probably going to disappear after we

walk away. These things tend to move, don't they?

LIAM: We should move toward our destination.

LAURA: We need to focus on the bow. And it's
really hard to say that, but I really--

TALIESIN: The whole theory of a path is you're
supposed to somewhat stay on it, I imagine.

LAURA: So stay on it.

LIAM: No more stops. Unless it's for the theater,
we're not stopping again.

SAM: What time is it?

MATT: From what you can tell, it looks like it's
in the evening, with the moon up.

SAM: And we've been awake for a while?

MATT: Full journey here since you rested... make
an intelligence check.

SAM: Natural 20, except disadvantage because I'm
exhausted. 16 plus two.

MATT: Okay. After resting just outside of the
Moonbrush, it's probably been three hours since

you woke.

SAM: Oh.

TRAVIS: We're good.

LAURA: Oh, we rested?

MATT: Did you guys push on when you got there?

LIAM: I was wondering the same thing.

MARISHA: I thought we camped on the outskirts.

TALIESIN: Whatever we decide right now is exactly
what happened.

MARISHA: Right, so we camped and we got up,
right?

TALIESIN: Yes. What? Yes, of course.

TRAVIS: I agree.

MATT: I feel like there would have camping before
going straight into the Moonbrush, and I think you

may have been pressed for time at the event last
time to try and do that.

SAM: All I know is my mansion spell has been
ticked off. So I used it at least once in the last

47 hours.

MARISHA: Yeah, I feel like we camped out right
before we went into the Moonbrush.

TALIESIN: We camped out right before that.

MATT: Right, so it's been a few hours since you
regained consciousness. It wouldn't have made a

huge difference, per se, but you were still
reading the book. You're close now, at this point.

SAM: Yeah, I'm close.

MATT: A handful of hours away from completing it.

LAURA: So I can take off this negative seven hit
points that I don't even remember how I got,

probably.

MATT: Actually, that you would have gotten from
the large bear, so no.

LAURA: You're right.

MATT: Nice try. All right, so as you guys gather
here, Garmelie goes, "All right, so duskward is--

"that way. Who's leading?"

TALIESIN: You are.

MATT: "Oh, I'm not leading. I'm guiding you."

LAURA: You guide. In the front.

MATT: "I'm guiding you duskward. I've never been
inside the Moonbrush! I know of things around it."

LAURA: How were you planning to guide us through
it if you don't even know how to do it?

SAM: He was just going to get us to the outskirts.
That was always the plan.

MATT: "I'm getting you to your destination by
helping guide you there."

MARISHA: But if you can't guide us through the
Moonbrush--

MATT: "I am guiding you through the Moonbrush, I
just think somebody should take the lead."

MARISHA: But you said you've never been here.

TALIESIN: He wants something big in the front.

MARISHA: Yeah, I'm just wondering what his use
will be from here on out.

LAURA: How about you and I, we can be in the
front.

LIAM: She's Duchess of the Grape Hunt so she's
very good to lead.

MATT: "Great, wondrous. That'll work fine."

LAURA: Duchess of the Grape Hunt, what a wonderful
title.

MARISHA: Hang on a second, Garmelie. Huddle real
quick. Why don't we send him home? He could die.

TALIESIN: I'm all right with that.

MARISHA: He's not going to be any use from here on
out. He's never been here.

SAM: He knows things about the Feywild that we
don't know.

LAURA: The only thing I worry about is we made a
deal with him.

TALIESIN: He's under contract, which means that
there are places and things he might be able to

help us with.

LAURA: He shook our hand.

TRAVIS: Yeah, it couldn't hurt.

TALIESIN: It's worth having him.

SAM: Also, if it turns out he's not who he says he
is--

MARISHA: Which I'm starting to get a very strong
feeling of.

SAM: We'll find out who he really is later.

LIAM: He's a bit of a sneak, too. The only reason
we have him is because you spotted him

because you're awesome.

TRAVIS: And he wanted a hat, how bad could he
honestly be?

LAURA: Right? It looks very good on him.

TALIESIN: I feel like hats are almost a
traditional sign of something a little iffy.

Present company included, of course.

MARISHA: We got betrayed by Clarota at the 11th
hour, so--

LIAM: We're so much cooler now.

SAM: All right, let's just put Vex and Vax.

LAURA: Hold my hand, dear?

MATT: "All right." He takes your hand. Roll a
survival check.

LIAM: He eats her hand.

LAURA: 17.

MATT: 17, okay. Holding your hand, you guys
quietly begin to make your way through the

Moonbrush.

LAURA: Eyes out for any things.

MATT: You're in your natural element, also. It's a
forest.

SAM: Grog, can I ride on you?

TRAVIS: Girl, you can always ride.

SAM: Yeah, I just need to be reading.

MATT: Much like a kid in the backseat of a car on
a cell phone, Scanlan is just reading through the

book on the back of Grog.

MARISHA: Station wagon. Facing backwards.

LAURA: You can always ride on Trinket, too,
Scanlan.

SAM: No. Grog weirdly smells better than Trinket
today.

MATT: About another two hours of travel duskward,
and he's keeping a finger pointed in the

direction, which is difficult for you because the
moon placement in the sky has not changed. The

correlation as to what you normally use in the
Prime Material Plane to gauge direction has no use

here whatsoever. So the best that you can do is
try to keep yourself facing forward and using his

occasional guidance to steer back on track.

LAURA: I'm going to try to learn from him how he's
gauging his surroundings and stuff.

MATT: Make an insight check.

LAURA: 21.

MATT: 21. He seems to, every single time he checks
for the direction, lick his finger and then point.

There's nothing more to it than that. He'll take a
moment to think and look around, lick his finger,

point in a direction.

MARISHA: Can I do a nature check to see if I feel
a breeze at all, or is he bullshitting?

LIAM: Are they way ahead of us or are they just up
ahead?

MARISHA: 16.

MATT: There is no breeze. There is no sound in the
forest here. There is no sound of leaves

clattering. He's just doing that.

MARISHA: Because it makes him seem smart.

LAURA: What does the licking do?

MATT: "Licking is how I initiate the
specialization of my arcane understanding of the

"flow and ebb of the fey--"

LAURA: You're bullshitting.

MATT: "No! This is a technique. And it's leading
us to your destination. Have a little faith. You

"hired me for a reason."

LAURA: So much faith in you.

LIAM: Is he taking us to the theater right now?

LAURA: Definitely the theater.

MATT: "Not the theater!" Pressing on, I want you
to make another survival check.

LAURA: Natural 20. And I don't even need to roll
again.

MATT: All right.

MARISHA: As we go, I just want to Druidcraft
little green pebbles. No, let's do brighter-- red

pebbles to start leaving behind Hansel and Gretel
style.

TRAVIS: Lead something right to us.

MARISHA: Little pebbles. Tiny pebbles that I can
recognize.

MATT: Okay, so you're creating small stones that
trail behind you as you go.

MARISHA: Every hundred feet or so.

MATT: As you guys progress forward, you start
finding patches where the ground itself gets a

little mushier, like either there's a nearby river or
the ground itself has retained liquid more than

other areas of the forest. You begin to see the
faint appearance of familiar green sprouts that

come through. These are mandrakes, and you manage
to catch them before the rest of the party gets

there, you and Garmelie, especially with your
sight and knowledge of this area, you manage to

guide the party around that whole field of waiting
mandrake.

LAURA: What do they do? Do they just scream a
lot?

MATT: You don't know. You may find out yet.
Progressing forward into the next section, I need

you to make another survival check.

LAURA: Oh no. 12. Oh, double-double! That's
better! 25.

MATT: 25! Shit, girl. Eventually, you come to what
appears to be a river that's cutting through this

portion of the Moonbrush. Just on the other side
of that river, you hear a faint sound of music.

MARISHA: The theater!

LAURA: (whispering) What is that?

MATT: "What is what? I don't--"

LAURA: The music, do you hear it?

MATT: "No?"

TRAVIS: Hold on, are you saying you don't hear
anything right now?

MATT: Actually, right now nobody hears it except
for you.

LAURA: What does it sound like?

MATT: It sounds like a soft violin, with a hint of
flute, and a drum beat. It's very simple. It's

very basic.

LAURA: Does it sound pleasant?

MATT: It does sound pleasant. It sounds folksy and
whimsical. It's very, very faint.

LAURA: There must be people further in.

SAM: You hear music?

LAURA: Yes.

TALIESIN: Could be dangerous.

SAM: Can I listen?

MATT: The rest of you guys, as you gather up, you
begin to hear the sound and so does Garmelie.

Garmelie's like, "We really don't need to go in
that direction."

LAURA: Do you know anything about music playing
randomly in the woods?

MATT: "Music can be good, it can be bad. Who
knows? Dangerous music is very often a thing in

"places you don't understand. I would not recommend
wandering into places of phantom music."

TRAVIS: We should check it out.

SAM: I want to hear some music.

LAURA: What direction is it coming from?

MATT: You take a few steps. There is still a
river, which is about 15 feet across. It's a soggy

bank that leads into a lazily running river. So
you have to cross that first. It looks to be a

little ways duskward and to your right.

TRAVIS: Have to cross the river.

LIAM: We don't need to stick a stick into every
beehive we come across.

SAM: But this is the theater.

LIAM: Is it the theater?

TALIESIN: We don't know actually know. It could be
anything.

LAURA: It could also be a camp.

TALIESIN: It could be many things.

SAM: Do I recognize the music?

MATT: You don't, actually. It's not a classic
ditty. The structures are familiar. You can see

where the basis of a lot of bar shanties come
from; a similar bouncing beat to it, but nothing

that catches you as really familiar.

LAURA: (whispered) Ugh. I want to see what it is
that's doing it, though.

TRAVIS: Right, but we got to cross this river to
get to it.

LAURA: We have to do it regardless, yes.

MARISHA: How big is the river?

MATT: 15 feet across.

SAM: It's a stream. It's nothing.

TRAVIS: He said it's lazy, right? It's just going
along, but I call bullshit 'cause we're in the

Feywild.

TALIESIN: You're very clever about that.

LIAM: You said we have to get across, regardless,
Garmelie?

MATT: "Well, yes, if we're heading toward your
destination, we have to cross."

MARISHA: We have to get across the river,
regardless?

SAM: Can you make us a bridge, Keyleth?

MARISHA: I can control water and part the river
for a second.

SAM: Well, that's even better.

LAURA: For a hot second?

MARISHA: For a hot second, yeah, I was trying to
stop myself. I cast Control Water and make us a

little bubble as we walk.

MATT: Okay. So you watch as the stream begins to
separate--

MARISHA: I don't want to Moses this, I want to
give us a little bubble that we stealthily walk

under the river with the little bubble.

MATT: You guys find your way, walking down onto
the bank of the river, your boots sinking into the

very soft, soggy bottom of the river. You walk
across, make your way to the other side. The river

splashes as the bubble is no longer required. You
traverse it; no issue. It's a river. The music is

a little louder on this side of the bank and is
off to the right side.

SAM: Should we send Vax ahead?

LIAM: I don't think it's a good idea but if we're
going to check it out you and I should go ahead.

Yeah, let's go.

LAURA: Garmelie? Do you want to come with us? Go
invisible?

MATT: "Um. Okay?"

LAURA: I will hold your hand, don't worry dear.

MATT: "All right." So he vanishes from sight. The
two of you guys make your stealth checks.

LAURA: Oh, can I cast Pass Without a Trace on us?

MATT: If you want to.

LAURA: I'm going to do that.

LIAM: All right.

MATT: All right, so adding plus ten to your
stealth rolls.

LIAM: 39.

LAURA: Whoa. 28.

MATT: All right. The rest of you are staying
behind.

MARISHA: Yeah.

MATT: So you two and Garmelie make your way
upwards, pushing past bushes, and the trees here

in the Moonbrush, which are getting thicker and
thicker the further north you go. You hear the

music getting louder and louder, and it's funny.
You find yourself tapping the side of your leg to

it. It's a nice beat. You begin to hear laughter.
Sounds like jovial laughter, like people having a

good time. Just a few voices. You hear two
different voices going back and forth, laughing.

LIAM: Our mother read us stories about shit like
this.

LAURA: Did she?

LIAM: Yes, she did.

LAURA: I don't remember.

LIAM: Fairies. Grumpkins. I don't know. It's
probably going to end badly. Do you want to go

have a look?

LAURA: I just wanted to see, but if you're worried
about it, we don't have to.

SAM: Oi! You lot! I just had a thought.

LIAM: Why start now?

SAM: If there's music, there could be some sort of
charm effect.

LAURA: Oh.

SAM: Would you like me to come with and maybe
counter that charm effect?

MARISHA: The bard is just now figuring this out?

LAURA: Get on up here, you stealthy fuck.

SAM: All right, I put down my book and hop off of
Grog and go up there.

MARISHA: I sit down with Percy.

LAURA: Add ten to it because of Pass Without a
Trace.

SAM: I don't think you cast it on me, did you?

LAURA: I cast it on everybody that's within 30
feet of me.

SAM: Am I there yet? I'm exhausted.

MATT: Yeah, it's at disadvantage.

SAM: Same. What is it?

TALIESIN: Stealth. Plus ten.

SAM: Oh! Hey, that's 18! That's not bad.

LAURA: Would have been eight?! Jesus.

MARISHA: I sit down with Percy and I say: six gold
that after 200 seconds, they run out screaming

again.

SAM: Can I be doing Countercharm? Can I hum a
little tune? Is that how it works? I don't know

how it works!

MATT: Well, it's time for you to learn how one of
your abilities works here, Sam. For countercharm:

as an action, you set up a performance that lasts
until the end of your next turn. During that time,

you and any friendly creature--

SAM: It lasts six seconds?!

MATT: Hold on. You can keep doing it every round
if you want to. It doesn't say there's a limit to it.

SAM: All right. I'll keep humming.

MATT: They have to hear you to be affected by it.
It has to be loud enough for them to hear you.

SAM: Sure. I'll hum loudly.

LIAM: You want to break our stealth?

MATT: It's going to happen.

SAM: Shit.

MATT: Yeah, one way or the other. You've got
countercharm or keeping stealthed.

LAURA: Aw, fuck.

SAM: We'll stealth, and if it starts to feel icky,
then I'll do it.

LAURA: Okay. All right.

I basically just want to see what the fuck
is laughing. I want to see what it is.

LIAM: If I do not see a mummer's show from this,
there will be hell to pay. Now let's go.

MATT: So the three of you and Garmelie, who's
invisible at this point in time, you approach what

looks to be a clearing ahead of you now. The trees
actually disperse a bit. You can see what appears

to be a small campfire that's crackling in the
center of this clearing. And the music is actually

quite loud now. You see figures jaunting around
this fire and holding hands and swirling for a

second and then separating. Then dancing a little
ways around it again.

LAURA: What kind of figures?

MATT: You have to get closer.

LAURA: Fuck! Fuck this. Fuck it. I'm not doing
it.

LIAM: I will go closer.

LAURA: No. Don't fucking go closer. I get a really
bad feeling. All of a sudden, I get a really bad

feeling about this.

LIAM: 39 stealth.

LAURA: I'm behind a tree.

MATT: You're behind a tree. Garmelie is staying
with you. What are you doing?

SAM: Can I sing to him through the earring? No, we
talked about that before.

MATT: No, the effect has to be within hearing, so
either you go up with him or you stay behind.

SAM: I'm going to stay behind.

MATT: Okay. So Vax, you come up to the very edge
of the clearing. You vanish. You come to the very

edge of the clearing. You see before you where the
laughter's coming from. There is an elf, in full

Verdant Guard armor of Syngorn, who is skipping
and laughing around the fire, dancing alongside

what appears to be a bipedal humanoid creature
covered in fur with claws, a longer snout. And

they are both smiling and holding each other's
hands and spinning and twirling each other. And

dancing around.

LAURA: They're totally charmed.

MATT: You see the music is actually coming from a
floating spectral violin, flute and drum, unmanned

by any creature; just slowly drifting around the
clearing, around the entities that are dancing. I

also need you to make a wisdom saving throw.

MARISHA: Ah, there it is!

LAURA: Oh, jeez! Is it a charm effect?

LIAM: Yeah, is it? Because I have advantage if
it's a charm effect.

MATT: You do.

LIAM: And I'll use one Luck for the day. First
Luck. All right. 17.

MATT: 17. Okay. Looking forward, you find a
tapping on the side of your hip as the beat finds

you. And you begin to drift out of the shadows
into the center of this clearing. You look over

and see as the guard extends his hand and takes
yours. The beat kicks into you, a smile creeps

across your face--

LAURA: I take my broom out and I start flying up
and I grab Scanlan's hand and take him on the

broom with me.

SAM: Where we going?

LAURA: We're going to fucking get Vax out of
there.

SAM: I start singing.

MATT: Okay.

SAM: Countercharm. (jazzy saxophone riff)

MATT: The gentle sounds of Careless Whisper
keeping any possible invasion of your mind at bay,

hopefully. You just hear Garmelie behind you going
"No! What are you doing?!" echoing through the

trees as you guys dart in towards the center of
this camp. You--

LIAM: I'm on, man. I'm lit.

MATT: You are totally on. This is an amazing
experience. You feel the color and the music

surging through you, and all through this endless
surge of energy inside as you begin to now join

into this other dancing trio.

LIAM: Fucking werewolf guy look good.

MATT: Yeah. You guys dart into the center of this,
hearing the music, hearing the laughter, watching

your brother with a Joker-like smile on his face,
the sheer joy pulling his expression into one of a

very disturbing joy. I need both of you guys to
make wisdom saving throws with advantage.

LIAM: Oh dear.

TALIESIN: Advantage versus magic.

SAM: Yeah, I already had advantage.

TALIESIN: Well, there you go.

SAM: 13.

LAURA: 23.

MATT: 23? All right. You sweep in at this point,
and find that Scanlan jumps off the broom.

LAURA: No! Don't jump off the broom!

MATT: You tumble down. Make an athletics check.
Acrobatics.

SAM: Save? Check? Ten. Check or save?

MATT: Check.

SAM: Ten.

MATT: Okay. You catch yourself. It wasn't a large
fall. You land on your feet down on the ground

with a crunch. A number of things crunch and break
beneath your feet as you stand up and you look up

and see as Vax, this elvish warrior knight, and a
straight-up wolfman all lead you into the dance,

and the four of you now begin to take each other's
hands and laugh and skip around in a circle.

LAURA: I'm going to try to Pok√©ball Vax into my
necklace.

MATT: Okay.

LAURA: Okay, I'm going to try to do that.

TALIESIN: I'm hearing this cacophony, and I'm
slowly getting up with a sigh and moving in the

direction of the campsite.

MARISHA: You might have won this bet this time,
Percy.

LAURA: Not yet!

TALIESIN: Slow walk. You've got time.

MARISHA: I'm holding onto my six gold.

LAURA: You have to make a wisdom saving throw
against me.

LIAM: Okay.

LAURA: Why'd you roll twice?

LIAM: Because I have advantage against charm.

LAURA: It's not charm! It was just wisdom.

LIAM: Oh, then I rolled shit. It's just a five.

LAURA: Then he goes in the Pok√©ball!

MATT: You are pulled into the necklace. I'm really
going to push to refer to it as a necklace.

LAURA: Sorry, necklace. The Raven's Slumber
necklace.

MATT: I'm going to really push to have it be
called a necklace. Vax, all of a sudden you're

pulled out of this dance, and your head is clouded
for a second as you find yourself in a singular

darkened stone room. Four walls, a single stone
throne in the center of it facing out towards a

glass window the size of the other walls. It shows
an image of the perspective of the necklace.

LIAM: First conscious person to go in here.

MATT: Second, technically.

MARISHA: Second to Grog.

LIAM: Grog was unconscious.

TRAVIS: No, I wasn't.

SAM: He was very close to death.

LAURA: Can I grab Scanlan?

MATT: You can.

SAM: I'm doing the Russian Bottle Dance from
Fiddler on the Roof right now.

MATT: It's fantastic.

LAURA: I want to fly down and get him around the
waist and pull him out.

MATT: Make an athletics check. I need you to make
an acrobatics check.

SAM: Check?

MATT: Yes, so roll and add your acrobatics with
disadvantage.

SAM: 11.

LAURA: Athletics?

MATT: Yes.

LAURA: Oh, that's strength, isn't it? Oh, sorry.
17.

MATT: 17. You manage to grab Scanlan, pull him
onto the broom with you. The two other dancers

immediately reach up and grab him and try to pull
him back down into it. At this point, you look

into their faces and you can see, while they have
smiles on them, their eyes are fearful and

desperate, their bodies are emaciated and
exhausted. They both look like their physical

bodies are on the edge of collapse from nonstop
dancing for god knows how long. You glance down at

the ground around you, and you can see numerous
piles of broken bones and discarded armor. All

order of other creatures that have befallen this
spot amongst the forest and never left. They're

pulling against you. We're making opposed strength
checks. Go ahead and roll.

MARISHA: Come on, Vex.

LAURA: Fuck. I'm so weak, you guys.

MATT: So are they right now, though. They're
heavily emaciated.

LAURA: Just a regular strength check? It's not a
saving throw?

MATT: Nope.

LAURA: 11.

MATT: 11. You feel as Scanlan, who was shoving off
of you instinctually and both of these bodies

grabbing his legs and pulling him down off the
broom, he is pulled from your grasp, hits the

ground, and the three of them continue their
dance, completely nonchalant. Not even paying

attention to your presence at this point.

LAURA: I fly away. Minor problem. It was really a
very bad idea to go towards the music. However,

Scanlan's enchanted, and we should probably save
him because it looks like a lot of people have

also been enchanted and are stuck there forever.
If you're going to come and try to save him, plug

your fucking ears, because I have a feeling this
music is cursed. And I start shoving shit in my ears.

TALIESIN: Keyleth, can you Druidcraft some
cotton?

MARISHA: Sure. You owe me six gold.

TALIESIN: No, we're going to save them. You owe me
six gold.

MARISHA: But she's running back out screaming!
Three and three, we split the gold three-three. It

was a draw.

TALIESIN: Vex, could you go fetch a pail of
water?

MARISHA: Wait, hang on. How about this, you
guys... I believe, as an elemental, I'm immune to

charm effects.

LAURA: Well, then fucking get in there and help
him.

SAM: You should do more than believe that. You
should probably know that.

LAURA: Maybe be an elemental and shove some shit
in your ears.

TRAVIS: If I got into a rage, I can't be charmed.

MARISHA: That's true!

TALIESIN: There's nothing to be done about that.
It's a campsite, correct? I'm going to start

wandering until at least I have a sense of the
size of it.

MARISHA: You're right. I Druidcraft the cotton.

MATT: All right, cool. You guys all make your way
back towards the direction of this little opening,

this gap in this grove.

LAURA: I'm going to let him out of the Pok√©ball
before we get him out!

SAM: There seems to be some distortion going on.
I'm doing that thing with the wolfman where I'm

miming a lasso and pulling him closer to me to
dance closer.

MATT: Sure, and they're into it. It is unlike a
song you've ever heard, and everything else fades

away: memory of your friends all drift out of your
mind. All that matters is this moment, this dance,

these people and the music. Any semblance of the
personality of Scanlan that existed before is not

there. All you feel is the muscles tensing and
relaxing from the ever-present dance. The rest of

you slowly begin to approach the outside of this
opening.

LIAM: She just dumped me out. It's not my call.

MATT: Are you dumping him out or not?

LAURA: I'm afraid because of the music's still
playing. What if you're still charmed? I'm not

going to dump him out.

MATT: She keeps him in the necklace.

TALIESIN: Just the basic features of the area.

MATT: Perception check.

TALIESIN: Come on.

LIAM: I'm in the necklace krumping right now.

TALIESIN: That would be ten.

MATT: It's hard to tell at this distance. There's
a lot of the tree line at the edge of it that are

blocking the shape.

TALIESIN: Vex, what did it look like?

LAURA: What did what look like?

TALIESIN: The area where they are.

LAURA: It was a camp with bones all over the
ground and floating music things. Dancing.

TALIESIN: Were there tents?

LAURA: There weren't tents?

MATT: No.

TALIESIN: Just dirt?

LAURA: Just bones.

TALIESIN: Was there a fire pit?

LAURA: Yes? Was there a fire pit? There was a
single fire pit. There was a floating violin and a

floating set of drums.

TALIESIN: Single fire pit, lit. Set of drums.
Violin.

TRAVIS: Hey, I've got an idea. How about you race
in, grab Scanlan, I'll kill the other two--

LAURA: No! Don't! They actually looked really
distraught. I think they were under a spell, as well.

TRAVIS: Have you no mercy?

TALIESIN: If we can save one, we can everybody,
possibly. I haven't seen it yet. I'm going

to try and get a little closer to it, gently.

LAURA: I'm going to nock an arrow. And point it
towards the violin and hold it there.

MATT: Okay. Percy, you creep closer. As you get
closer, the music gets louder.

LAURA: But you have stuff in your ears.

TALIESIN: I have packed my ears.

MATT: You have, and as you approach, it doesn't
seem to have an effect on the volume of the

music.

TALIESIN: I'm backing up.

MATT: All right. Make an intelligence check. Add
your intelligence modifier.

LAURA: Please roll good.

TALIESIN: Natural 20.

MATT: You begin to notice the increasing volume
despite the blockage in the ear pretty early on

and stop your advancement before you get too
close.

TALIESIN: I sit. I pull out Bad News and I start
to get a good look.

SAM: Oh god, you're going to kill me?!

TALIESIN: No, I'm just going to cripple you. Calm
down.

LAURA: I feel like we should aim for the
instruments.

TALIESIN: The instruments are noncorporeal, I
believe.

LAURA: Are they?

MATT: They're just elevated. You didn't get a good
look at them.

TALIESIN: One way to find out. I'm going to take a
shot at the violin.

MATT: Roll an attack.

TALIESIN: I haven't done this in so long. 17 to
hit.

MATT: 17 to hit. That hits. Roll damage.

LAURA: What did you aim at?

TALIESIN: The violin.

LAURA: Can I aim at one of the other ones?

MATT: Yeah, you want to fire at the same time?

LAURA: Yeah, since he shot, I want to shoot.

MATT: Which one are you shooting at, the drums?

LAURA: What else was there?

MATT: There was the drums, the flute, and the
violin.

LAURA: Drums.

MATT: Roll an attack for the drums.

LIAM: The woods are full of Irishmen.

TALIESIN: 12 points of damage.

MARISHA: Oh shit, Flogging Molly's playing the
Feywild, yo!

LAURA: I rolled 16.

MATT: 16 hits, so damage?

TALIESIN: 12.

MATT: 12. And roll damage.

LAURA: 15.

MATT: 15, okay. Scanlan, I need you to roll a
wisdom saving throw.

SAM: Saving throw? Not at disadvantage? Natural
20.

MATT: You guys with your natural 20s! Okay. Roll
it again.

SAM: Natural 20.

TRAVIS: Back-to-back?!

LAURA: What the what?!

MATT: That's absurd. You've been storing this shit
after a week we've been gone.

MARISHA: I don't think that's happened since we
played at home.

LAURA: No, it happened when I was saving him
against the Briarwoods. Two natural 20s.

MARISHA: That's right!

LIAM: That was 35 episodes ago.

SAM: Wow!

MATT: All right. You take 24 points of psychic
damage, Scanlan. As both of you guys fire, both of

the instruments scatter for a second, and there is
an echo of psychic energy that resonates

throughout the entirety of that grove. The fire
shakes and dissipates, almost going out. Scanlan,

you can see reach up and grab the sides of his
head in pain. The guard and the wolf that were

dancing do the same, except they both collapse
immediately on the ground. A moment passes, the

instruments reform, the music continues, and
Scanlan goes right back into the dance.

SAM: I throw my white man's overbite back on.

LAURA: Maybe it's time for Grog to go in.

TALIESIN: No. Round two.

LAURA: Round two, Grog runs in and grabs Scanlan,
and we run out. He can't be charmed!

TRAVIS: Before you let me off the chain. There are
trees, right? Who's benefitting from this charm?

TALIESIN: The instruments and the campsite.

TRAVIS: There's not somebody in a tree, hiding
out?

TALIESIN: I think the campsite just might be a
campsite. I want to try and douse the fire.

MARISHA: If you want to rage and go in, I can be
there on standby.

TRAVIS: You're going to let me go?

LAURA: I feel like we should let Grog go.

MARISHA: I use Alter Self to shape my fist into a
giant rock fist and I deck Grog to throw him into

a rage.

MATT: The jaw is momentarily displaced as you pop
it back into place.

MARISHA: Grog, go get our bard!

TRAVIS: I would like to rage.

MATT: You take one damage from the punch impact,
and you go into a rage. Running forward at your 50

feet, you make it into the center of the camp.
Currently, the music is all around you, but you

don't hear it because all you see is red and
Scanlan's fucking horrible white man's overbite

dancing by himself at the campsite with no
allies.

TRAVIS: I don't know if I've killed an elf in
quite a while, so I'm going to aim my axe at the

throat of the elf that's dancing.

MATT: The elf isn't dancing; both he and the
werewolf are on the ground, unmoving.

TRAVIS: They didn't get back up?

MATT: No, they're fucking down.

SAM: It's just me and some instruments now. You
have to come get me.

TRAVIS: Sweet, I'm just grabbing Scanlan and
running straight through.

MATT: I need you guys to make opposed athletics
checks. No, this would be strength.

SAM: Strength or athletics?

MATT: For this one, I initially said athletics;
that's fine. They're almost equatable.

SAM: Saving or check?

MATT: Check.

SAM: Ten.

TRAVIS: 25.

MATT: 25. You grab Scanlan. You begin to make your
way out of the camp. It was 40 or 50 feet to get

in and grab him.

TALIESIN: Is he starting to make his way out of
the camp?

MATT: He's grabbed Scanlan and pulled Scanlan off
his feet.

TALIESIN: I'm going to shoot him in the shoulder
with my Retort gun.

MATT: Okay. Roll an attack.

MARISHA: Keep the rage going? Nice.

TALIESIN: Ooh, just barely. 16.

MATT: Total of 16? What's your armor class, Grog?

TRAVIS: 20.

TALIESIN: Taking another shot. Rolling like shit.
That's better. 20.

MATT: What's your armor class?

TRAVIS: 20.

MATT: Roll damage.

TALIESIN: Thank god. It's been so long! Where are
all my dice? Just a nick. 16 points of damage.

MATT: You take 16 points of piercing damage,
halved, so you take eight. You feel the music

begin to creep into your ears as the blood pumping
in your skull begins to subside, and then

(gunshot) your shoulder gets blown back. You look
over and you can see the bullet wound and the

blood beginning to pour out of the small piercing
wound you've suffered in your shoulder. The red

takes over once again.

TRAVIS: Vax!

(laughter)

MATT: Clutching Scanlan at your side, you go
running out of the field. Because this is the

secondary round now, make one more athletics check
versus his athletics check.

TRAVIS: 22.

MATT: Yeah. Scanlan's pushing away as hard as he
can against your body, but you have him footballed

under your arm and go charging out of the center
there. As you pull out of the center of the camp,

the flame's reclaimed its general spiraling
height. The music keeps playing, and then as you

guys rejoin the rest of the party, the music
begins to fade as the instruments slowly drift

down and lay still.

LAURA: Good, it stopped. We can go back out.

TALIESIN: (cackles) Really?

SAM: Am I okay?

MATT: You're all right now. Your brain comes to
you. Your legs are a little sore, and you were

already exhausted to begin with.

SAM: I instinctually start freaking Grog. Dry hump
dancing.

TRAVIS: Like a little dog on my calf?

LAURA: Okay, so you're all right, Scanlan?

SAM: Oh, what? I was dancing. It was amazing.
There were lights.

LAURA: I release my brother. He's out of Raven's
Slumber.

LIAM: Did we see a play yet?

LAURA: It was the worst play I've ever seen.

TALIESIN: It's more of an intermission.

LAURA: Garmelie! Why didn't you warn us that could
happen?

MATT: Garmelie, who's there by the side, comes out
of his invisibility, and says, "I tried! I really

"tried! But you guys continually insist to go
face-first in whatever I warn you about, because

"you don't trust me, apparently, when you hired me
to be your guide!"

LAURA: We trust you, dear.

MATT: "Hopefully you've learned a lesson! God."
(sighs)

SAM: Wow. That was amazing.

TRAVIS: So the fire's out; instruments are gone.
Should we loot the campfire?

LAURA: We should not go back out there.

SAM: Can we get those weapons, somehow?

MARISHA: Which weapons?

SAM: The musical weapons.

MARISHA: You want the magical enchanted
instruments?

SAM: I guess we can't get them, can we?

LAURA: Best to avoid them.

TALIESIN: It's a trap. It's not actually musical
instruments.

SAM: We'll flip a coin, right, Grog?

TRAVIS: Yeah, that's it. Roll a d20.

SAM: Disadvantage. One.

LAURA: Let's avoid it.

MARISHA: We're good.

MATT: So what are you guys doing?

LAURA: We move towards the dusk.

TRAVIS: We're moving towards the Gilded Run.

MATT: All right. As you guys begin moving away,
Garmelie scoots up a little bit and gets a look in

the edge, and goes, "Well, you certainly found the
happy campsite, so good job."

TRAVIS: Oh, you told us about that earlier.

MATT: "Yes! Yes, I did."

MARISHA: Oh, that's the happy campsite.

TALIESIN: Have you not figured that out yet?

MARISHA: I thought he was being metaphorical. I
didn't know it was literal.

MATT: (sighs)

TALIESIN: This is quite literally the land of
literalism at this point.

TRAVIS: We make people sigh a lot.

MATT: All right. I need you to roll a survival
check with advantage, leading the group forward.

LAURA: 25.

MATT: 25. All right. You guys continue pushing
duskward. Between you and Garmelie leading the

way, the forest gets ever thicker. The trees get
even closer together, and you feel that some areas

have no more than maybe three or four feet between
the tree trunks themselves. The rest is really

angry, tangled roots, as well as the high-growing
underbrush of the entire forest. Moon still

unmoving in the sky.

TRAVIS: Are we trampling anything as we're
walking?

MARISHA: Yeah, we're not stepping on mandrakes,
right?

MATT: No. In fact, it's her high rolls that are
keeping you guys from stepping into any of the

local dangerous possibly screaming fauna.

SAM: Matt, did my Countercharm help at all?

MATT: It did.

LAURA: It gave us advantage--

SAM: But did you need it?

LAURA: No, I did, yeah.

SAM: Hey, I did it right!

LIAM: Half-elves have advantage on charm.

LAURA: Oh.

SAM: It didn't help?

LAURA: It didn't help.

MATT: With anybody else, though, it would've
helped. It actually helped you.

SAM: I still was charmed.

MATT: You still were charmed.

LIAM: Is the footing here precarious? I know she's
leading us through, but is it all viney and

shitty?

MATT: It's not great. It would slow your pace if
you didn't have her leading you through. It's

still not the fastest pace in the world, but
you're able to keep going at a decent rate.

TRAVIS: Can I jog up to Garmelie and Vex real
fast? You said that there were lycans at some

point, and you said they move through the trees,
right?

MATT: "Yes, from what I've heard."

TRAVIS: Would that be these trees?

MATT: "Possibly."

TRAVIS: Right. Have you seen a lycan?

MATT: "I haven't."

TRAVIS: Great. We should be keeping an eye on the
trees.

LAURA: I was trying to.

MATT: All right, make a perception check.

LAURA: 36.

MATT: As you guys are having this conversation,
you glance up, right into two yellowish eyes that

are piercing from just past the leaf line of the
canopy above you. As soon as you look up and see

them, they immediately disappear in the darkness,
and you hear a low growl and some shifting in the

leaves above you.

LAURA: I think they're here.

MATT: At this point, you guys begin to hear,
surrounding you in the distance, growling, sounds

of shifting and movement in the trees just beyond.
You hear in the distance one singular (howl) and

barks echoing around you in the center of the
forest. Shadows begin to dart between the trees,

and a quiet moan of wind begins to break what was
once silence in this forest. As you guys glance

around you in the darkness, many of you having
darkvision; even this low moonlight, Percy, you

can still make out the shapes that are shifting.
You look in your vicinity at what appear to be

about six different medium to larger sized
man-like humanoid creatures that step out of the

trees, revealing themselves, most of which contain
a wolf-like appearance, elongated snout, darker

gray and brown furs, large pointy ears and
gleaming angry eyes, the lips curled back

revealing white teeth. You see one large
tiger-like man, which sends you immediately into a

recoiling moment, though larger than the rakshasa
that you've experienced, and not with the

signature back hands. They are unclothed, and you
see barreling behind you guys, heavy footfalls as

you see what looks to be a giant, bipedal bear
clutching a greataxe comes (smash) through one of

the tree clearings and (roars). They're not
attacking. They're not advancing. They've just

surrounded you.

SAM: That's not good.

TRAVIS: Well, they're here.

LIAM: I give Scanlan a little boot in the butt
forward a couple of steps.

SAM: Hello. We come in peace. We mean you no harm.
If we've tread into your territory, we will exit

immediately, and we apologize for offending you or
your gods.

MATT: Some of the wolf-men creatures look at each
other. The tiger individual steps further out of

the shadows and appears to have two iron-like
bracers on, a longbow strapped across his back,

and steps forward to meet you from beyond the tree
that he was partially obscured from. "Intruders.

"Your terrible fate brings you within our domain.
For what purpose?"

SAM: We seek passage through this marshland to
what lies beyond it. We are searching for--

MARISHA: The Shademirk bog.

SAM: The Shademirk bog.

LAURA: We hope to rid the land of a cancerous tree
that has been a blight for a very long time.

MATT: "I know not of this tree."

SAM: It's a source of great evil that's been
corrupting this plane and ours.

MATT: "There are many evils that corrupt this
plane, small tasty thing."

SAM: I'm not tasty.

LAURA: He's not. Many diseases.

TALIESIN: Dozens.

MATT: The tiger looks about at the other
werewolves who are now stepping in, and the bear,

who's put the greataxe over its back now at this
point, begins to step closer in. The tiger, whose

eyes are now bent on you, takes another step
forward, "So."

(buzzing)

MATT: The audio on my iPad needs some help,
apparently. Time to get new music. Oh, that's an

expenditure I don't need.

SAM: A new iPad for no reason?

LAURA: Something else? It's our computer?

CREW: We're going to switch out the one that we
usually use.

SAM: This is so exciting.

MATT: Isn't it, though? Especially at that
climactic moment, my audio goes down.

CREW: Sorry!

MATT: It's all good.

LAURA: We should probably kill it. I feel bad for
everybody listening.

MATT: I'm going to kill the music, then. Okay.
Bringing us back in now. Sorry about that.

LAURA: Maybe just make it come out of your iPad.

MATT: It's something. Sure, we'll go with that.

LIAM: Works for us.

LAURA: That's how we did it at home, man!

TALIESIN: This is the best simulation of our old
home game that I've had.

MATT: That's enough to give you the feel. The
tiger takes that step forward, leans in to you,

and goes, "To parley or continue our hunt?" Looks
at the other wolves. "Call Ukurat." And roars out

to the air. The other wolves all together begin to
howl in unison. (howls) Loudly into the sky.

(howls)

LAURA: What's Trinket doing?

MATT: Trinket's backed up with you guys, growling
and facing off with the bear-like entity that's

keeping eyes on Trinket but is still (growling) up
into the air of the forest.

TRAVIS: Shit.

LAURA: Oh. Ukurat. Isn't that the big ghost bear?

MARISHA: No, that was Oralan. Ukurat's the lycan
leader.

MATT: A few moments pass as the howling subsides
and they all stare intently, keeping a bestial

cage around you in the center of this forest. It's
at that point you begin to hear (footfalls) what

sounds like a series of heavy footfalls at a
speed, and the sound of trees thrashed as various

hanging vines and branches are snapped or passed
at such a speed. There is a mass of black shadow

that comes emerging from the brush, slamming into
the side of one of the trees near you with a

clattering (crash). You see it pressed up against
the side before leaping off, rebounding, landing

right beside you guys, separating your group,
giving Scanlan, Vex, Trinket, and Garmelie pushed

to one side and the rest of you to the other.

You now see this giant, feral beast, humanoid in
shape once it begins to stand, but larger than

anything you've seen before, as the large wolf-man
creature stands at full height, about 12, 13 feet

tall, its shoulders wider than yours, Grog. A
series of various jeweled necklaces adorn its

throat, and you can see what appears to be a
makeshift leather belt and armored leg piece that

sit upon it. Rings glimmer around its fingers, and
you can see a series of scars drawn across one

side of its cheek that go down to its throat. It
looks about at the rest of you, separated,

glancing at each side. "So. You seek passage,
yes?"

SAM: Yes, that's right.

MATT: "There is a toll to pay. A favor to the
Fendir is granted. A favor in kind."

SAM: A favor to you?

MARISHA: The Fendir, is that what you said?

MATT: "We are the Fendir."

SAM: Well, we would be happy to help if we can. We
are here to do good, anyway. We've already done

some. We conquered the devastating campsite of
Soradun the Happy, and we're up to doing more

tasks like that, if it would help.

MATT: The wolf creature that you expect, at this
point, is the Lord Ukurat that you heard mentioned

before by both Garmelie and the wolf and beast
kin, leans down towards you, making you

uncomfortable, as his head is larger than your
entire body, Scanlan. The lips curl back, and you

can see the glistening white teeth, and drool
slowly dripping off the edge of its curled

purple-black lips. (sniffs) "We will not eat this
day if you agree to do us this favor."

LAURA: Name it.

MATT: "The pixie Wishers carry a madness, one that
pits them against all who wander these woods. They

"prey upon us Fendir, take our forms to desecrate
their twisted garden and decorate their lives. We

"lose family. We, the Fendir, and I, lord of this
brood, ask you to take into this home, find these

"Wishers, destroy a relic of their people. In
particular, a circle of crystal stones they keep.

"It sits among their homes, tended by their mystic,
Iotha. She wields the power to subjugate us all.

"Do you agree to these terms, or does our hunt
continue?"

LAURA: They sound really powerful, these pixies.

SAM: If you are not powerful enough to conquer
them, how would we have a chance?

MATT: "If you do not think you have a chance,
perhaps you're best suited as our meal for the night."

LAURA: No, we have a very good chance of defeating
them. We are quite powerful. Just wondering why

you haven't done it before.

MATT: "We have fallen to their magic. We are not
tested and tempered against such trickster cunning

"creatures. But if you speak like you've passed the
campsite unscathed, perhaps you have skills we lack."

SAM: That is true. We probably do. We made quick
work of the camp. It was a proud moment for us,

one that will be storied for generations.

MARISHA: This mystic-- Iotha, you said-- she has
the power to subjugate your kind?

MATT: "Yes."

MARISHA: Does she have the power to create more
lycans?

MATT: "She sees our kind to be exterminated."

SAM: Where can we find this site?

MATT: "Follow the lights."

SAM: The lights?

MATT: The small, glittering fey lights that you've
seen throughout many of the darker forested areas

of the Feywild since you arrived, now taking a
look, they all slowly, gently drift in a singular

direction before touching the ground and
dissipating. Even though the wind that blew

through with their arrival has faded, they all
still drift in a direction as if they're being

called a specific way.

LAURA: Cool. Hey, question. Should we help you
with this terrible problem you've been facing, do

you think there's any way you would want to help
us when we try to take out this cancerous tree? It

needs to be taken care of. Teamwork?

MATT: "Cancerous tree?"

LAURA: It's really bad. Whole other area for you
to dominate. It's quite wonderful.

MARISHA: The Shademirk bog.

MATT: Make a persuasion check.

LAURA: Goddamn it! Wait, it's my favored terrain.

MATT: Doesn't work for every single thing you do.
The forest isn't going to help you with your

persuasion check, sorry.

LAURA: Natural one.

MATT: The wolf leans forward, and the mouth comes
right up to you for a second. The nose almost

nudges you, and you instinctually stand back as it
(snorts). "This is not part of our parley. We

"grant you passage and to take what you wish off
their pixie corpses. That is the deal. Take it, or

"we hunt."

SAM: I think we'll take the deal. Happy to enter
into this contract with you. No problem.

MARISHA: We're just stacking contracts.

SAM: Is there a timetable to this? Do we have to
do this now? Can we do this on the way out of the

Feywild?

MATT: "There is no out until this agreement is
completed."

SAM: Do we have your word that we have completely
safe passage? We don't have to worry about any

other sort of monsters getting us in our sleep on
the way there?

MATT: "They and us rule this brush. Against each
other, nothing will take your path away. We can

"guide you if need be."

MARISHA: If we take out the pixies, what is the
future of your tribe?

MATT: "The brush will be ours. We will no longer
be taken, our people left there to wither and

"waste away to the elements."

MARISHA: Just a question. Do you guys hunt the
pixies? Because I'm getting the sense that this is

a weird turf war, and I just want to know the full
story before we enter into this contract.

MATT: The bear, who's closer to you, takes a step
forward, and you feel the ground shake behind you.

TRAVIS: I match his step.

MATT: Match his step, okay. Grog steps forward.
The other of the wolves nearby see you, and they

all (snarl) crouch down, snarling in your
direction. Lord Ukurat puts his hands out. "Calm,

"my brethren. We wish to live in peace amongst the
woods, away from those who would hunt us, outside

"and in."

MARISHA: Why don't you guys just agree? You guys
take this half of the forest, and they'll take the

other? I can even help you guys build a big wall,
if you want, not to get oddly political. Maybe

death is not the answer here?

MATT: One of the wolves nearby speaks up, "She
speaks like she knows this place." And you hear

some laughter. The wolf's head, which is turned to
you, Lord Ukurat turns to you.

MARISHA: They think I'm funny.

SAM: How many total are there?

MATT: There were seven, including the 12-foot-tall
one.

SAM: We can probably take them.

MARISHA: I'm not trying to take sides here. Just
from a third party looking in. Trying to

understand both perspectives, maybe.

MATT: "You have only heard one perspective."

MARISHA: Exactly!

MATT: "Then go speak with them, if you'd like.
Learn what we have learned. Perhaps that will help

"guide your choice."

MARISHA: Not a bad idea.

TALIESIN: I find that very reasonable.

LAURA: That is very agreeable.

MATT: "We will be watching." At this point, Lord
Ukurat crouches down, leaps up into the canopy of

the forest, and you hear (impacts) as he leaps off
in the distance. The other wolves (howl) follow

suit and dart off in separate directions, and you
hear as the bear backs away, Trinket growls back

at him.

LAURA: Be nice to him, Trinket!

MATT: (bear growl) The bear goes, (grunt). Trinket
goes (grunt). Broseph bear snarls. You guys are

left to the quiet of the forest now.

SAM: We could probably kill them all. I'm just
throwing that out there.

TRAVIS: I'm super restless.

LIAM: I don't really want to fight a group of
werebeasts, but we have much better chances, if

we're going to pick a side, against them with
their brute strength, than against fucking pixies.

I am charmed at the drop of a hat!

TRAVIS: Have you fought a werewolf before? Have
you fought a lycan? Is it just brute strength?

LIAM: Well, they are cursed. They seem very
unhappy. They have to sit in rolling chairs at all times.

TALIESIN: We literally have no idea what we're up
against in any direction.

LIAM: There are scary fairy stories, though,
growing up?

MATT: You've heard about people that transform, but
any specifics about their capabilities--

MARISHA: I have a few spells that are good against
people who can transform, but we're also in the

Feywild, so I don't know.

TALIESIN: Cute and dainty also means scary and
dangerous.

LIAM: We really bollocksed up the musical
instruments scenario, and I don't feel like the

pixies are going to be much better than that.

TALIESIN: I feel like that went rather well.

LAURA: All things considered.

TALIESIN: Took less than three tries to figure
that out.

LIAM: Yeah, we ran in for 30 seconds, shit the
bed, and then got the hell out. We didn't try to

end them. We didn't finish anything.

TRAVIS: It also bears remarking that Garmelie said
we're not supposed to side with either, right?

LAURA: Right, Garmelie?

MATT: "It's really up to you guys. I don't know if
you have much of a choice right now."

LIAM: Can't we just thread the needle and play
them both?

MARISHA: Until we get out of here. We're talking
about exterminating the group of fairies--

TRAVIS: No, we're destroying one of their relics.

TALIESIN: Just have to desecrate a relic.

MARISHA: You don't think they're going to put up a
massive fight if we go in and start kicking their relics?

TALIESIN: I feel like we've desecrated relics
before.

LAURA: Scanlan is really charming.

SAM: I could probably convince them to destroy it
themselves.

TALIESIN: How's that book going?

MARISHA: You genuinely think we can destroy the
relics without harming anyone?

LAURA: No, but I'd like to try.

TALIESIN: But I also will admit, I kind of want to
see the pixies.

MARISHA: I want to see the pixies, too.

LIAM: You also wanted to hear the music. That
didn't go well. We've got a bow to get you.

TRAVIS: Let's just go over there, do a little
recon, and then we'll make up our minds.

LIAM: We are idiots.

TALIESIN: Yes, we are.

SAM: I'm more inclined to turn around and fight
these lions and tigers and bears, oh my! Because

pixies, who knows?

LAURA: Honestly, they didn't seem that bad. I feel
terrible killing them for no reason.

MARISHA: Maybe we can talk to the pixies about--

TALIESIN: I think you would look fetching in a new
lined winter jacket.

MARISHA: Maybe they can work with us.

SAM: I'm okay with at least going to do some
recon.

TRAVIS: Go see the pixies. We send in Garmelie. If
he dies, then we make a choice. Do you have a

revision to that plan?

MATT: "I would think that would be the last
portion of the plan. Everything else goes forward,

"and then, all else fails, perhaps Garmelie would
have a hard time."

MARISHA: Garmelie. Go, Percy.

TALIESIN: You're our guide. Guide us. We're
supposed to go where we're going, so you're

supposed to get us there. How do we get there?

LAURA: Follow the lights.

MATT: "You know exactly how to go there. Follow
the lights."

TRAVIS: Wow, you're so brave.

MARISHA: We brought you here.

TALIESIN: Garmelie, I'm so curious as to what
happens if you're going to renege on our

contract.

LAURA: Would you want to draw some of the pixies
if we see them?

MATT: "If they let me."

LAURA: You can hide behind Grog, and you draw the
pixies.

MATT: "I can maybe do that."

TRAVIS: They're going to be pixies with giant
dickbutts everywhere.

MARISHA: Garmelie, is there anything in particular
about pixies we desperately need to be aware of?

MATT: "They're tiny. They're frail, mostly
mischievous."

TRAVIS: How tiny?

MATT: He makes a motion with his hands about like
that.

LAURA: They're really that small? Are they super
strong?

MATT: "No, they're quite the opposite, actually."

SAM: But there are lots of them, and they're fast
and invisible.

MATT: "They are fairly magical entities. Depending
on which type of pixie they are, their

"dispositions can shift dramatically. The Feywild
entities that live and exist in certain areas tend

"to adapt to those areas. There are creatures of
all emotional and moral backgrounds and interests.

"It's hard to say."

TALIESIN: I'll also say, if we are going to attack
the were-creatures, it would be nice to have a

little help, maybe.

SAM: Help? From whom?

TALIESIN: From the pixies. If we explain our
situation, we can make a decision and either help

the were-creatures or--

LAURA: Maybe the pixies can help us take out the
cancerous tree and all the things around it.

TRAVIS: Well, let's go get eyes on them, shall
we?

MARISHA: Let's go.

MATT: All right, make a survival check. With
advantage because you're in a forest.

LAURA: I'm in a forest.

SAM: Oh, just her?

MATT: Just her, yeah.

LAURA: That's better. 22.

MATT: 22. You guys begin to move slowly forward as
you ascertain a direction from the occasional

small flutter of fey light that drifts at a slight
curvature in its descent, making your way in the

direction where, supposedly, the nexus of this
pixie tribe should exist.

We're going to go ahead and take a break. We will see
you guys back here in a few minutes to pick up

where we left off, wandering towards the pixie
home. We'll see you guys in a minute.

[break]

MATT: Welcome back. As we come into the event, Vox
Machina is slowly crawling through the Moonbrush

towards wherever these gentle fey lights drift,
leading them, hopefully, to some sort of home

space or residence of the local Wishers pixie
population. You guys, pushing on for about another

two and half, three hours, following the lights.

SAM: Reading.

LAURA: How many hours do you have left of
reading?

SAM: After two and half more, I have about four
and a half.

MATT: So close. You're on the cusp of your week
end, too. You guys make your way-- hoping that the

music now is fixed. We shall see. It's a cable
issue, not an iPad issue, it looks like. As you

guys push on, you eventually see a cluster of
small glowing lights in the distance, Vex.

Garmelie immediately goes, "I'm going to
hide now," and he goes invisible.

LAURA: Garmelie, won't they see you?

MATT: "That's possible. Should I just stay back?"

LAURA: You should probably just hold onto Grog. If
he runs in, just trail behind him.

MATT: "Okay," and you feel the little hand grab
the back of your belt again, a similar situation.

You hear (groans).

You guys now see what appears to be a thicket in
the center of this portion of the forest. Maybe 20

or so natural-looking homes forming a small
glowing community, almost like they were grown out

of the ground of the local trees. The bark itself
protrudes from the side of a tree and creates a

dome-like abode that has carved little windows in
it and a glowing interior. It's a very pretty

fairy community out there, right in there in the
center. All of the fey lights in the forest are

slowly drifting in towards the center of this
community. At a hundred-foot distance, you can

just make out the faintest details.

LAURA: They're teeny, though? It's teeny little
houses?

MATT: Yes.

SAM: Like doghouse size?

MATT: Each home or abode is about the size of a
basketball.

SAM: Are they made out of toadstools?

MATT: It's hard to see from this distance. You can
just see the general size of the homes.

MARISHA: This is so cute.

LIAM: And Vex is the only one that can see it.

MATT: She's the furthest ahead, yes.

TRAVIS: I feel like "cute" is the last word we
should use for this.

TALIESIN: It will be the last word you ever say.

LAURA: Definitely pixie city is up ahead.

TRAVIS: Should we look for perimeter alarms or
traps?

LAURA: Yes, I look for that. Good idea, Grog! Good
thinking.

LIAM: I'm going to go stealth, just because.

LAURA: Me, too.

MATT: All right. Make a stealth check, guys.

TRAVIS: All right, Pass Without a Trace?

LAURA: That's not still active anymore?

TRAVIS: That was awful.

SAM: We're doing stealth checks?

MATT: Of those who wish to move forward towards
the village.

MARISHA: Oh, all of us? Sure.

TRAVIS: 15.

TALIESIN: Natural 20.

TRAVIS: What!

LIAM: 25.

SAM: Are we adding plus ten?

LAURA: 27.

SAM: Five.

MARISHA: 17.

MATT: And as you guys creep forward, still humming
the essence of the tune you guys managed to escape

earlier, Scanlan's enjoying the echoes of his
countercharm that he so well presented earlier,

you shush him as you slowly creep closer to the
outskirts of this pixie community. As you get

closer-- when you envision a city, or a cluster of
abodes like this, it's a large section, but for

the scale of this it's no more than maybe 25 feet
across and there are maybe two dozen homes

throughout the entirety of this space. You can see
just on the edge, looking inside, what appears to

be a circle of about ten slightly glowing
quartz-like stones, arranged in a perfect circle

in the center of the community, and most of the
fey lights are drawn towards it and cluster and

rest at the base of the stones before fading
away.

You can also see, throughout this community,
arranged like decorative statues, three stone,

human-sized wolf-men type creatures that are
locked in place, their claws up like this. Some

look like they're fleeing, over a shoulder.
They're all locked in a stone position and

currently now have draped over them small vines
and flowers, and they now rest amongst the

community as some sort of a landmark.

LIAM: All right, that is kind of fucked up.

SAM: Yeah.

MATT: You can see at this distance now a few
moving, slightly brighter points of glowing light

fluttering by and going from one little home to
another. One over and into the circle flutters

back. You guys are still at a good 40, 50 feet
from the outside of this clearing.

LAURA: And we can't spot any pixies near us at
all?

MATT: Not directly near you, no.

TRAVIS: I hate spiders.

SAM: I don't want to go near this place. We should
either talk to them, or run away right now.

TRAVIS: I like the latter of those two.

LIAM: What was the goal here? To grab part of the
circle?

SAM: To break a piece of the circle.

MARISHA: To kick over their rocks.

TRAVIS: Did they say to bring one back? Or to
break it? The relic.

MATT: They said desecrate.

MARISHA: They said it was the source of their
power, right?

LIAM: Desecrate it?

TRAVIS: You ever stepped on an anthill, right? It
gets real nasty, real fast.

LIAM: Is it an open area over the village?

MATT: It is a clearing of trees about 25, 30 feet
across, and along the interior of the trees are

where a lot of the homes are grown out of, or out
of the ground almost like strange tree trunk roots

up into a dome-like natural home, and even they're
arranged in a smaller circle around the

central stone circle that is the middle.

TRAVIS: Like forest wasps.

LIAM: It all depends on the definition of
desecrate. I could fly you 500 feet in the air,

and you could shit upon that circle. It just
depends if that is desecration in the eyes of the fey.

TALIESIN: I will say that from what I gather of
this realm, it probably isn't enough.

TRAVIS: What if we asteroid-dropped Keyleth from
500 feet?

MARISHA: That was very fun.

LAURA: That would take out the lot of them?

MARISHA: But it would take out the lot of them,
right?

LAURA: It seems so drastic.

LIAM: The fairies or the fairy circle? Wouldn't it
just destroy the circle?

MARISHA: How wide is the entire--

MATT: About 25, 30 feet for the entirety of the
community. The circle itself is five to ten feet

wide. It's not a very large circle at all.

TRAVIS: You'd be in your stone elemental form,
it'd be no problem for you.

MARISHA: It'd be no problem for me.

SAM: I don't think she would ever get close to it.
They have some sort of shield up.

TALIESIN: It'd be kicking the hornet's nest,
certainly.

SAM: Tell me this, Vex, Vax. People with high
perception.

LAURA: He's Vex, I'm Vax.

SAM: Where are the animal men? Are they watching
us right now?

MATT: Perception check.

LAURA: That's double because of favored terrain.
What is that, 20? No, 33.

MATT: 33. Doing a pretty intense scan of the
vicinity of the forest around you, you see no sign

of any of the previous pack that you encountered.

SAM: I think they're out there somewhere.

TALIESIN: I think they're probably hanging back a
bit. I don't know if they'd want to get this close.

MARISHA: I'm sure they have other means of spying
on us.

TRAVIS: I vote we don't fuck with the pixies.
Never thought I'd say that.

MARISHA: Here's what I have at my disposal. A, I can
shapeshift into a little tiny spider and go in there--

LAURA: Can you shapeshift into a pixie?

MARISHA: No, unfortunately. Beasts. Particular.

SAM: Can't you go underground and pop up?

MARISHA: Yeah. Once again, probably destroying
their entire village, but yeah.

TALIESIN: The two of us could snipe something out.

MARISHA: But I could go in like a spider and be a
spider. I also happened to bring Hallucinatory

Terrain today, so depending on how smart we think
the lycans are, maybe I can make it look like we

destroyed it.

LIAM: How long does that last?

MARISHA: 24 hours. Let me double check before I
make promises.

LAURA: I like this.

LIAM: Just to give us a day's head start.

SAM: What we could do, Grog and I could run back,
I could cut him over the eye, and say: It was

horrible. It was quite a fight, but we won.

LAURA: Do we need to let the pixies know that
we're going to do this?

MARISHA: Maybe Scanlan, do you have something that
could-- I don't want to waste a spell and then

find out that they have some sort of magical
barrier enchantment that it can't stay up there.

TRAVIS: What, you'd waste Hallucinatory Terrain?

MARISHA: Yeah.

TRAVIS: When else are you going to use that?

MARISHA: Well, I'm burning a spell slot.

SAM: If they block it with their magical little
crystals all over the place, then they'll also

know we're here and they will attack us.

MARISHA: Yes, 24 hours for a 150-foot cube, I make
a terrain look, sound, and smell like some sort of

other terrain.

LAURA: I'm just worried that if you do it then the
lycans are going to bust it, and then they just go

to battle amongst themselves.

TALIESIN: Isn't that brilliant?

LAURA: This is actually really smart.

SAM: Wait, can you still tree-bamf us out of
harm's way if we needed to?

LAURA: You've got the mansion.

SAM: I don't have the mansion.

TALIESIN: He's already burned the mansion.

SAM: I haven't slept in days.

MARISHA: The only thing I have that can get us out
fast is Plane Shift, which will get us out of the

Feywild, but I brought that just in case.

TRAVIS: Third option, we say fuck the lycans, fuck
the pixies, and we just keep going.

LAURA: What if you do the Hallucinatory Terrain,
and we just leave?

MARISHA: Yeah, we could do the Hallucinatory
Terrain, and if it fails, then I guess we won't be

in any worse situation.

TALIESIN: I'm a big fan of Hallucinatory Terrain.

SAM: If we do Hallucinatory Terrain and it fails,
the pixies will straight-up attack us.

LAURA: How do you know?

MARISHA: Well, it won't hurt them. It just makes
it look different.

SAM: Everything here has attacked us.

TRAVIS: All in favor of Hallucinatory Terrain,
raise your hand.

SAM: We have to get the animal men here to see it,
or else it isn't worth it.

LAURA: We cast it and we create a ruckus--

SAM: I will buy into this idea if we have a plan
for when the pixies are about to literally attack

us five minutes from now.

MARISHA: Well, we can do Hallucinatory Terrain,
and if we run into the lycans, all we have to do

is say we did it.

LAURA: Do Hallucinatory Terrain. Garmelie, which
direction should we run if we're running towards

where we're supposed to be going?

MATT: Garmelie has watched this thing with eyes
wide, and he's like, "That way."

LAURA: All right.

TRAVIS: Weren't you dropping little green rocks?

MARISHA: I was dropping little green rocks.

TRAVIS: So we can find our way back to the lycans,
right?

MARISHA: Yeah.

TALIESIN: That's of course assuming that the
little green rocks work here.

MARISHA: They were red. They were red rocks.

TALIESIN: There's an awful lot of reasons why the
little red rocks wouldn't work.

TRAVIS: Okay. Let's do it.

LAURA: We take off running--

SAM: Wait, where are we running?

LAURA: Towards the bog.

SAM: Towards the what?

LIAM: We think towards the bog.

SAM: We're leaving Kiki and just running?

MARISHA: No, I can do this at a range of 300 feet,
so let's back up 300 feet.

LAURA: You do it, we act like we did something, we
start running.

MARISHA: Hallucinatory Terrain, are we doing this?
Are we ready? Are we doing this? I did it, bamf.

MATT: So you stand back a bit at the outskirts.
What kind of hallucinatory terrain are you

creating?

MARISHA: I want it to look like the fairy terrain,
but their little huts are on fire like they've

been raided, and I want the circle of rocks to be
obliterated, and all their statues to be knocked

over and it smells like fire and shit and pixie
blood. Like Grog said.

MATT: Grasping at what you imagine pixie blood
would smell like.

MARISHA: Yeah, I'm sure it smells delightful.
Herbal.

MATT: So as Keyleth, you finish concentrating, you
guys watch as there's a shimmer of magical energy,

and now you see where once the beautiful glowing
fairy light of the pixie abodes now look burnt to

a cinder. You can see embers slowly rising off of
them as the stone structures are now broken across

the ground.

LIAM: The horror, the horror.

SAM: The pixies see it too, though.

MARISHA: They can see it, but they can also be
like: oh, this isn't real.

LIAM: I grab Keyleth by the wrist and start
running away from the village.

TRAVIS: Are we running back to the lycans or to
the Shademirk?

LAURA: Towards the Shademirk.

TRAVIS: I've got Garmelie.

LIAM: Go, run faun, run.

LAURA: But keep on the lookout for mandrakes.

MARISHA: And werewolves.

MATT: Okay, so I want everyone to make a
perception check.

SAM: Strong eight.

TALIESIN: Natural one.

LIAM: Natural one.

TALIESIN: No!

MARISHA: 22.

LAURA: No! 31.

TRAVIS: Natural 19.

MATT: What are you looking out for? Which
direction are you looking?

LAURA: I'm looking towards where we're going.

MATT: Okay, so you're going with Garmelie, heading
in the direction duskward. Where are you looking,

Keyleth?

MARISHA: I'm looking out for werewolves, for
lycans.

MATT: Okay. Where are you looking?

TRAVIS: I'm looking for lycans, too. I'm just
being honest!

MATT: All right, so you guys continue pushing
forward--

LIAM: I'm shouting: The way is clear!

MATT: All right, you guys run, and run, and run,
and you're pushing through brush and pushing over

elements and heavy hard portions of the floor. I
need everyone to roll-- this is going to be an

athletics check for the keeping up the endurance
and the speed. This is not easy terrain you

continue to push through.

MARISHA: Athletics?

LAURA: I've got land stride, so I don't get slowed
by any hard terrain.

MATT: You're fine. You don't need to roll.

TRAVIS: 24.

MARISHA: 24.

TALIESIN: 11.

SAM: I rolled twice, because of disadvantage. Both
were ones.

MATT: You've hit the spectrum today.

LIAM: Well, I rolled a one, but then I used Luck
and I rolled a 20.

MATT: You guys, calm down on the extremes! There
are other numbers between those two, you realize,

on the dice.

SAM: I'm tired from reading.

MATT: You're not reading during this run. But as
you guys are charging forward, Scanlan goes

face-first over a heavy root into the ground. You
guys have to double back, grab him, keep going.

You push on, and you push on, and you push on for
what seems like another 30 minutes to an hour.

Your pace starts to slow due to general exhaustion
and you're unable to keep that speed and that

level of physical exertion for that long. Most of
you can't. Grog is happy to go forever.

Constitution of 20; he's good to go.

LIAM: He's basically good against anything except
one of the ancient dragons.

MATT: There's a few things he's not good against.
Tiny brain with arms and legs, not so good.

TRAVIS: Fuck that little bastard.

MATT: That was fun. Eventually, you begin to see a
thinning of the trees, like the forest is coming

to an end. You're beginning to hit the edge of the
duskward side of the Moonbrush.

LAURA: Are we going the right direction,
Garmelie?

MATT: "As far as I know! Yes, we're going the
right way!"

MARISHA: You're taking us through the bog?

MATT: "Through the Moonbrush. That's what we're
going through."

MARISHA: Still to the bog.

MATT: "Of course! Where else would I want to go?!"
He's holding his hat and rushing along.

LIAM: You want to go to the theater.

MATT: "No theater!"

LIAM: What's your problem with the arts, man?

MATT: You guys, at this point in time, come to the
final tree line, Vex and Vax and Garmelie helming

at the front of the pace before all three of you
slam into something extremely hard.

MARISHA: Oh fuck.

LAURA: What is it?

LIAM: Did it feel like a theater?

MATT: No, it felt like a wall.

LIAM: The wall of a theater?

LAURA: Seriously. A wall?

MATT: You stand back up and you guys catch up, and
same thing: you come up to the edge between where

the trees that hit the perimeter of the forest
are, and there's a barrier, an invisible barrier

right there that's preventing you from crossing.

LIAM: What is this thing, Garmelie?

MATT: "I don't know! I haven't encountered this."

LIAM: Never ever?

MATT: "I don't walk into the middle of dangerous
forests for fun!"

TALIESIN: I don't think we can leave until we take
care of this.

TRAVIS: Wait. You can go invisible. Is it magic?
Can you tell?

MATT: "I can have a look at it."

TRAVIS: Yeah, have a look.

MATT: He comes up and looks over it for a bit. "To
be honest, this is a large-scale enchantment. This

"is some sort of-- this is very powerful, very old
magic."

MARISHA: Fucking old magic.

MATT: He turns around, looking at you guys. "Hi."

LAURA: Hi.

MATT: Looking past you.

LAURA: Oh shit.

MATT: As you guys turn around and see behind you
what looks to be, shoulder to shoulder, a mass of

furred, standing, snarling, beast-like humanoids.
Behind them, landing and standing up to his full

height, his snout having to dip beneath the brush
under the nearest trees.

LIAM: See what we did to those pixies? Wrecked.

LAURA: Fucking destroyed.

TRAVIS: Cut me real quick.

MATT: At this point, you now see as Lord Ukurat
steps from them, and they all begin to form a

semicircle around you. He goes, "Were you trying
to flee?"

TALIESIN: We were running from the pixies.

LAURA: We destroyed their home, and then we took
off running. That's what you wanted, right?

MARISHA: They're so scary.

MATT: "If you had done what we asked, you would
have been able to leave this forest."

TALIESIN: So we have to try harder. It didn't
work.

LAURA: Apparently, our methods were not complete.
We will go back and we will do it better this next time.

MARISHA: To be fair, I don't remember entering a
formal contract.

LIAM: You took off before we shook hands or
anything.

MARISHA: You told us to go take a look at the
pixies first. And to get a second opinion. And we

have made it to the edge of the bog safely,
without your need of safe passage.

MATT: He's already turned around and walking away.
He says, "Do what you will. I have no interest in

"you. Liars, deceivers! You talk too much. Your
meat would taste like ash in my mouth. Well, good

"luck. Enjoy your time locked in this prison like
the rest of us!" The wolves turn around and walk away.

LAURA: Wait, you're locked in here because of the
pixies?

TALIESIN: I feel like they're terrible
communicators.

MARISHA: Yeah, they should've told us that. I
don't think they wanted to tell us that.

LIAM: Would've been a good incentive for us to
destroy the pixies. We can't proceed without

destroying the pixies.

LAURA: A little communication is all we need!

TRAVIS: Can I take out my bloodaxe and go up to
the magic barrier and hit it as hard as I can?

MATT: Go for it. Roll an attack.

TALIESIN: This is going to be appalling. Don't.

TRAVIS: 22.

MATT: Okay, roll damage.

TRAVIS: How do I do that? I forget. I'm kidding.

MATT: It's been a few episodes.

TRAVIS: 16.

MATT: Okay. I need you to also make a wisdom
saving throw.

TRAVIS: Sweet. Natural one.

MARISHA: Oh my god.

LIAM: Got to love it when the crew laughs at your
final death crack.

MATT: As you pull back with the bloodaxe, you
slam with all your might into the barrier. As it

hits, there's a streak, a flash of vibrant,
bluish-white light and what sounds like the

highest shriek you've ever heard in the entirety
of your time on Exandria, at which point you watch

Grog get flung backwards at incredible speed
through the air, the actual blast sending you

almost into your allies and party, slamming into
one of the nearby tree trunks. The bloodaxe goes

plopping to the ground as you feel a number of
bones in your back crack from the impact. You

suffer 28 points of psychic damage and 14 points
of bludgeoning damage from hitting the tree.

TALIESIN: I feel like we all learned a very
valuable lesson right now.

MARISHA: What's a good burrowing creature? A
badger?

TRAVIS: Ow.

LAURA: I feel like we need to rest, you guys. We
really need to rest.

TALIESIN: Let's sit down and camp, and in the
morning, we'll go and kill some pixies.

SAM: Wait. Are we trapped in here because we were
deceitful to these wolf-men, or because the pixies

are trapping everybody?

LIAM: The pixies are bitter little assholes.

MATT: Garmelie goes, "That doesn't make sense.
People enter and exit the forest without an issue."

SAM: We entered.

MARISHA: Yeah, we entered.

SAM: So why are we trapped here? Because we lied?

MATT: "I don't know."

TRAVIS: I just don't think we can go this way.
(belches)

TALIESIN: I'm going to attempt to cast Minor
Illusion on the other side of the wall. Just an

image of myself.

MATT: Okay. As you attempt to cast the spell, the
arcane energy dissipates upon impact with the

barrier.

LAURA: Garmelie, who do you know that's left these
woods?

MATT: "That would be my uncle Jameson, who's the
person I learned most of this information about

"the Moonbrush from."

LAURA: Your uncle Jameson, and he was definitely
telling the truth that he went in the woods?

MATT: "He was probably a little intoxicated when
he was spinning these tales, but--"

TALIESIN: Is Jameson his real name or a nickname?

MATT: "As far as I know, it's his real name."

LAURA: So he knew about the happy camp.

MATT: "These were the things I was warned of,
yes."

LIAM: Do we want to waste any time trying to take
your broom up and see how high this barrier goes?

MARISHA: I can dig and see if we can go under,
just in case.

TALIESIN: That doesn't jive.

TRAVIS: Oh, that's true. It didn't hurt us when we
just ran into it.

LIAM: No, when we ran into it, it felt like a
brick wall.

LAURA: I guess I fly up. Can I fly up and see how
high up it goes?

MATT: Sure. You get on the broom, you go past the
canopy and eventually, the front of the broom

clips and scrapes against, and you can see a
little bit of a shimmer of the barrier that domes up.

LAURA: It's a bubble. We're in a bubble. I go back
down.

TRAVIS: I have a proposal.

LAURA: Yes, Grog?

TRAVIS: Why don't we make our way back to the
pixie dome and say: oh, we were chased by these

horrible lycans! We wanted to kill them, but we
got stuck when we hit this invisible wall. Could

you do anything to help us get rid of the lycans?
And then we play both sides of the coin.

SAM: That is way better than our first idea, and
yet still terrible.

TALIESIN: I think we have to pick a terrible idea
and stick with it until it becomes far too much

for us to deal with.

MARISHA: Can I take a look around and do a
perception check to see if anyone else might be

watching us?

MATT: Make a perception check.

MARISHA: That's not bad. 25.

MATT: 25. You take a moment and glance about the
tree line, the floor.

MARISHA: Are there rustles in the bushes from
someone who might be invisible?

MATT: No movement any further. Once the rest of
Lord Ukurat and his crew had vanished into the

nightward direction, you've seen no movement
since.

LAURA: I feel like they weren't that bad of guys.
They could've attacked us, and they didn't. They

just want out.

LIAM: They're certainly no meaner than Grog is.
They're just scarier.

TALIESIN: I propose we take a nap. Go back and
deal with the pixies one way or another.

LIAM: I agree with Percival. I think all our
options are shit. We pick the least shitty and see

what happens.

LAURA: Scanlan, can you sleep?

SAM: If I read for a few more hours first, sure.

TALIESIN: You'll take first watch.

MARISHA: How long have we been up?

MATT: At this point in time, I'd say close to
eight, nine hours.

MARISHA: So it hasn't been a full day. Let's call
it an early night.

LAURA: Read your book. We'll sleep.

TRAVIS: All right. You take first watch. We're
going to zonk out.

SAM: Okay.

LAURA: I'll stay up, as well.

MATT: So you're taking a short rest or a long
rest?

LAURA: We'll take a short rest into a long rest.
So he can finish reading and then we can sleep.

MATT: All right, sure. So you're taking first
watch.

LAURA: And I'm up with him.

MATT: Okay.

MARISHA: Can I...

MATT: Can you...?

MARISHA: I want to go Minxie and do a little
perimeter walk in the forest a little bit.

MATT: Okay. The rest of you guys are resting and
finding camp here in a small section of the trees.

You're on that weird cusp where, looking out
towards the barrier, you can see the dusk light,

the usual sky of the Feywild, and as you guys back
up to find your camp, a little deeper in the

forest where it feels safer and less exposed,
looking up, you can still see the dark, starry sky

and the moon, both visible from your position past
the trees above and past the barrier in front.

As the rest of you are resting, you're finishing
up your reading. You go Minxie form, and you go

wandering the perimeter. Make a perception check.

MARISHA: Natural one.

SAM: Looks like a seven. Nope, that's a one.

MATT: As you're stalking through, looking about,
you catch a scent, a new scent. One you're

unfamiliar with. It smells sweet, like a freshly
fallen and opened fruit. You immediately

instinctively look down and sniff across the
ground. Out of the corner of your eye, you see a

glow as you see two small, humanoid entities with
pairs of wings flutter in in front of you and

stop. What languages do you know?

MARISHA: Elven, Sylvan, Primordial.

MATT: Okay. You do understand what they're saying,
as they are both talking to each other in Sylvan.

One says, "I'm not familiar with this one! I don't
think I've seen this creature in here before."

The other one glances over and goes, "You don't
think she could've done it?"

MARISHA: What was that last bit? Sorry.

MATT: "You don't think that she could've done it?
It's just a cat."

"Is it, though?" They both get closer and inspect
you. They're both rotating around your face and

fluttering. One starts pulling on your ear a
little bit, tugging on it.

MARISHA: I start purring.

MATT: "It's okay." They move underneath, under
your neck, and scratch just a little bit.

The other one backs up and goes, "We have to keep
looking. Something did this."

MARISHA: I wait for a second, and then start
stalking them.

MATT: You follow them?

MARISHA: Yeah.

MATT: Okay. The rest of you guys are taking a
rest. You continue reading.

LAURA: I'm awake. I'm keeping guard.

MATT: They stop and move, stop and move. They're
doing a full perimeter. Apparently, they are some

sort of a search party. Occasionally, you can hear
bits and pieces of conversation at a distance,

thanks to your better hearing as Minxie, but not
incredible bits. They're discussing a scare.

They're discussing the enchantment that was
placed. They're discussing new intrusion. That's

about the most you can make out of the
conversation. You continue to follow them. You're

going into the second or third hour of following
them, and they're

still doing a wide perimeter in the forest. 
They meet up with a third

one, and they have a quick little discussion and
then branch off.

MARISHA: Can I hear the little discussion,
anything?

MATT: If you want to get closer.

MARISHA: Yeah.

MATT: Okay. Make a stealth check.

MARISHA: I have stealth as Minxie. I get benefits,
right, as a tiger? Oh, yeah, I do. Oh, not good. Ten.

MATT: All right. As you creep forward in the
middle of their discussion, the three of them all

whip around at you. One of them pulls a wand out
and puts it out in front, and the other two back up.

MARISHA: I just start eating grass.

LAURA: That's totally tiger-like.

MATT: The two that saw you before are like, "She's
been following us."

"Why?"

MARISHA: I roll over and show my belly.

MATT: The one that has the wand out goes, "I don't
want to take chances." Puts the wand out. How many

hit points do you have? In Minxie form?

LIAM: Shuffle shuffle, flip page, flip page, flip
page.

MARISHA: Sorry. 52. They're going to Finger of
Death me, aren't they? They're going to do

something bad.

MATT: Okay. Raises the wand. There's a slight
tingling sensation, and then nothing happens, and

looks at the wand. "Strange." They all convene
and start whispering to each other very close.

MARISHA: I look distracted with other stuff. I
sniff and wander off.

MATT: They separate a bit.

MARISHA: Just doing cat-like things.

LIAM: Just start pissing.

MARISHA: I mark my territory. I spray a little
bit.

LAURA: Gross. That's foul, Keyleth.

MATT: You hear one of them say, "We can always
correct it later, but best to be safe than sorry."

As you're peeing, I need you to make a--

LAURA: If she gets petrified while she's pissing,
it's going to be--

MATT: I need you to make a constitution saving
throw.

SAM: It's either a one or a 20.

MARISHA: I'll just start a new one. Don't worry
about it. Fuck, why?

TRAVIS: Is this shit on camera? We're recording,
right?

MARISHA: That one's a 19, can I go with the 19?

MATT: You can't take it off the table before it's
real.

TRAVIS: Twice in a fucking row? What are the
chances? Do it again.

MARISHA: Oh, that's a 16, that's good. Saving
throw, so 21.

MATT: Constitution saving throw is 21 total?

MARISHA: I've got my ring of protection, which
gives me a plus two.

MATT: Oh, right. So as you're peeing, you feel
another warm tingle over one shoulder, and you

feel your muscles tense a little bit, and then
relax as the effect passes over you to no effect.

The three pixies go, "We have to tell her. I don't
trust it." And they all flutter off.

MARISHA: Okay. I head back to camp.

MATT: A few hours pass. Keyleth hasn't returned.
You're still reading.

LAURA: Keyleth? Keyleth, dear? Shit.

MARISHA: Whenever I'm back.

LAURA: Shit. I go and I kick Vax awake.

LIAM: Ow. Why did you do that?

LAURA: Oi. Your girlfriend's not back yet.

LIAM: What do you mean?

LAURA: She went off prowling as Minxie and she's not
home.

LIAM: I take off flying.

LAURA: Fucking A.

MARISHA: Oh jesus. Oh man. I'm a big girl, come
on.

LAURA: That is not what I meant for you to do.

MATT: This is your first time really trying out
your wings. You're also in a very dense forest, so

there's no space. As you heroically take off, you
impact. Your wing hits a branch, and you go

spinning out of the way.

LIAM: Can I Spider-Man from tree to tree like the
werewolves did using the wings a little bit?

MATT: You're trying to. Make an acrobatics check
with disadvantage.

TRAVIS: It's like a Plinko machine.

LIAM: 28.

MATT: With disadvantage? You manage to not fall on
your face, but it is a very clumsy-looking ascent.

You make it, but a wingspan of that size, amongst
tree-tops, is going to do very little other than

what your general leaping would do. You get a
little bit of gliding space from point to point.

LIAM: I'm still fucking asleep is the problem.

MATT: Yeah. But you don't fall. All right, so
we'll say for the next couple hours you guys

do-si-do in the forest until eventually you do
convene. Your wings wear off, and you find

yourself back at the camp, Minxie safely arriving
just as you finish your final page of your book.

SAM: And it was all a dream. What a shitty ending.
Who knew? It was terribly hacky and derivative,

and it read like Fifty Shades of Grey.

LAURA: Scanlan, you--

SAM: What? Something different about me?

LAURA: I don't know. Did you do your hair
differently today?

LIAM: Are you shorter?

SAM: I feel so interesting.

LIAM: That's impossible.

SAM: It could be.

MATT: And Scanlan goes right into the deepest
slumber he's ever experienced.

LAURA: Good. You guys are back, everybody's safe,
everything's good?

MARISHA: So I stalked a couple of fairies for
several hours.

LIAM: I know all this. She told me two hours ago.

MARISHA: Yes, I caught him up a little bit as we
were walking back. Pretty sure it is the fairies

who are creating the magical barrier, and I'm
pretty sure it's because we might've scared the

living shit out of them, so it might've all been
still our fault all along, like most things are,

so we'll talk to the fairies tomorrow.

LAURA: If they don't find us.

MARISHA: They are actively looking for us.

TRAVIS: They saw you.

MARISHA: They saw me as a cat.

TRAVIS: What did they do to you?

MARISHA: I think they tried to cast several spells
on me, and by some luck of the draw, I managed to

feline my way out of them. I think they are
looking for me and us, and I won't be a tiger

anymore.

LAURA: Can I use my ranger abilities and try to
disguise where we're camping?

MARISHA: Can I help hide? I'll help her a little
bit.

MATT: You guys find a little alcove by one of the
bigger trees nearby that has some of the roots

recess inward, and you build a small camp there
that's covered with thatch and branches.

LIAM: Do we have any concept of what time it is in
this perpetual night?

MATT: You really have none.

LAURA: I'm going to get a little sleep, though, so
I can get my spells back. Anybody else taking

watch?

LIAM: Yeah, stay up with me.

MARISHA: Okay.

TALIESIN: She needs to rest.

TRAVIS: I'll stay up.

MATT: She's already been up for four hours.

LIAM: Stay up with me.

TRAVIS: You can cuddle with me.

LIAM: Don't offer that.

TRAVIS: I know.

MARISHA: Okay. I will sleep, then, I guess.

MATT: Go ahead and nap. You guys are staying up.

MARISHA: I pick a space near Vax.

MATT: You guys make perception checks, both of
you.

TRAVIS: Ten.

LIAM: 27.

MATT: Okay. Partway into your watch, you do see,
whereas there was the very faint, ever-present

falling of the fey lights, you do see what looks
to be two brighter lights that are traveling

together, shifting about a little ways past your
sight.

LIAM: Do you see that?

TRAVIS: Yeah, fireflies.

LIAM: No. Well, sort of. Let's watch them. I don't
think we should go out. I think we should let the

group rest.

TRAVIS: What, the little lights?

LIAM: No, your friends. We'll let them sleep
unless those things come closer.

TRAVIS: Oh.

LIAM: Are they coming closer, or are they keeping
their distance?

MATT: They're keeping a distance. They don't seem
to notice you.

LAURA: They might've heard you.

MATT: All right, they come pretty close, actually.
They start heading in your direction. Do you guys

do anything? Are you going to stay quiet? What do
you do?

LIAM: Don't move. I go stealth.

TRAVIS: I freeze in an exotic pose.

MATT: Make a stealth check with advantage because
of the camouflage that she put.

LIAM: Do I have that camouflage?

MATT: You already have your crazy bonuses, but
yeah, take advantage on that.

LIAM: 25.

TRAVIS: Eight.

MATT: Total of eight? With advantage?

TRAVIS: A six and a two.

LIAM: Come on, Grog! Come on.

MATT: All right. As they drift past, you hear a
fart, which isn't what catches their attention.

It's the pause after, and Grog uncontrollably
laughing at it, partially because the intent of

Keyleth staying close to Vax while you guys were
resting, and it went in her direction.

MARISHA: I shuffle uncomfortably in my sleep. I
don't know why I just had a nightmare.

MATT: You watch as two of these fluttering points
of light about ten feet out.

LIAM: I'm staying still.

MATT: Stay there for a second, and then go darting
off into the distance.

TRAVIS: One look and they ran.

LIAM: We have to talk about your diet.

TRAVIS: What?

LIAM: Your diet! Do you eat any greens at all?

TRAVIS: Yeah, pickled herring, and I've been
grabbing stuff as we walk through.

MARISHA: That just happened. He wants to talk
about your IBS, and there are lycans.

LIAM: I crawl over to my sister and shake her and
say: wake up!

LAURA: What?

LIAM: Don't fly away like I did. Oh, wait, your
broom's over there, all right. They are watching

us. They came in close, and then they left, so I
don't think we're safe anymore.

LAURA: So we fucking should get out of here?

LIAM: Maybe, yeah.

LAURA: Wake everybody up!

TRAVIS: No, look. We've got to talk to them
anyway, right? We're not going to run.

LAURA: At least we can prepare ourselves.

TRAVIS: How?

TALIESIN: Sleeping.

TRAVIS: Yeah, just keep sleeping.

LAURA: I wake Percival up.

TRAVIS: No!

LAURA: Percy.

TALIESIN: What? Yes?

LAURA: Hi, grumpy.

TALIESIN: What?

LAURA: We've been discovered by fairies.

TALIESIN: That's nice.

LAURA: Get ready to use your charming wiles.

TALIESIN: All right.

LAURA: I'm going to let Scanlan sleep a little bit
more, because he looks fucking exhausted.

LIAM: That's it, you put him back to sleep? You go
back to bed, then.

LAURA: All right, fine. Can we make things look
fancy around here so when they all come back, we

look like we're ready to talk to them?

TALIESIN: I slowly crawl out. I pull out a piece
of parchment, and I write: Hello, fairies. We're

napping. And I put it on the tree above us and go
back to sleep.

LIAM: You're letting Whitey go back to sleep,
then?

LAURA: Whitey? Are you calling him Whitey as a
nickname?

LIAM: Yeah. I think it's apt. Fuck it. I go back
to bed. I spoon Keyleth and fall asleep.

MARISHA: I'll allow it.

TRAVIS: I actually go back to sleep, too.

LAURA: What in the fuck is going on here? How is
this happening?

MATT: Vex, you're the only one awake.

TALIESIN: All right, fine, my watch. I'll get up.

LAURA: I'm going to sit up.

TALIESIN: I sit up and take the watch.

LAURA: Oh, you know what, I'm going to put out the
little gold tea set, and I'm going to act like

we're welcoming them to tea whenever they show
up.

TALIESIN: I will take the watch, and I will make
some tea with the tea set.

TRAVIS: The cups are bigger than they are. Oh, you
made drowning pots for us all. How lovely. It's

going to be a threat.

LAURA: I never did actually find out what this tea
set does.

TALIESIN: We're about to find out, then, aren't
we?

LAURA: Oh, you know what, and I take out my old
wooden music box that I discovered.

LIAM: Yes, pull out all of your cursed items.

LAURA: And I wind it up and make some pretty
music.

SAM: Like a crazy grandma in the woods.

TALIESIN: I am joining you for this ridiculous tea
party.

LAURA: I like it, thank you. Don't drink out of
the teacups, because I really think they might be

cursed. Seriously, Percy, I know it's appealing to
you, but don't get cursed again, all right?

MATT: All right, so. You guys prepare your tea.
You set up your music box. A couple more hours

pass, the rest of you coming to a semblance of a
restful sleep. The only ones who didn't get a

restful sleep on this would be Vex and... Percy?

TALIESIN: I specifically did not join those
conversations.

MATT: You barely got in there. You do not get your
spells back, unfortunately. Scanlan, you reduce

your exhaustion by one point.

SAM: Oh, I got sleep?

MATT: You did, yes, so you're down to only one
point, which means your speed is no longer

halved.

SAM: Oh, I had two points of exhaustion? I thought
it was just one.

MATT: You wanted to keep reading.

LIAM: Hair is shiny, eyes are bright.

TALIESIN: Your charisma's up by two, which
means--

SAM: No, I already did it.

MATT: At this point, towards the end of this watch
here, you see as a cluster of seven lights now

start swarming in your direction.

LAURA: Oh, good.

MARISHA: Are we awake?

MATT: You're starting to come to as Vex begins to
nudge you guys to consciousness.

SAM: Do I get spells back?

MATT: You do.

LAURA: Oi, Scanlan. Sing a happy tune about how
much we love fairies.

SAM: Oh, sure. I love singing happy tunes. About
fairies?

LAURA: Yeah, like how pretty they are.

SAM: How about I just sing a happy tune?

LAURA: Sounds good, too.

SAM: I'll sing a song about myself. The best kind
of songs. (singing) Cube, glorious cube! You

really should try it. If you're in the mood, I
won't even hide it. I'll pull down my trousers for

any gal or dude, O cube, glorious cube, wonderful
cube, magical cube!

MATT: The sounds of your voice, accompanied by the
music box playing through the air as the Wisher

pixies arrive, at least this troupe of them come
rushing up. You see they are all behind one that

appears to have-- while all of them have a slight
white with a hint of pinkish glow, there is one

that has a deeper purple halo around it. As they
all approach, they stop, and the purple one goes

up to the paper that was left on the tree. "So!
Enjoy your nap?"

LAURA: I wasn't quite rested, but it was lovely
here.

TALIESIN: There is tea. Would you like some tea?

SAM: We might have straws.

TALIESIN: I am tempted to fashion the thing that I
use to pour my molds into little sippy cups that

can be shared.

LAURA: We've been trying to prepare for your
coming. Unfortunately, we don't have very much to

make it appropriate.

TALIESIN: We are aware we need to have a
conversation. Good morning.

MATT: "Yes, we do." And the other pixies flutter
down to the ground. She flutters down, as well,

and they approach the tea set.

MARISHA: I say good morning to them in Sylvan.

MATT: They all look over, and they give a slight
curtsey bow. You now have a closer look at them.

They're all various lithe young men and women with
little leaf-based or vine-based bits of attire.

The one that has the purplish halo is an older one
with whiter hair that's a little wild around the

face. You can see the wings themselves look a
little more tattered and worn. She's probably the

respected elder of the troupe that's there. As they
all step forward, she inspects the tea set and

looks up. "So."

LAURA: I'm afraid there's been a misunderstanding.
You see, we were trying to pass through these

woods, and we ran into a band of very big, very
mean-looking wolves.

MATT: All the pixies at once go (gasps) and they
pull back. The purple one says, "You ran into them?"

SAM: Not only did we run into them, but they
forced us against our will to attempt to do you

harm.

LAURA: Which, of course, we didn't want to do.

TALIESIN: So we thought we would just trick them.

MATT: The pixies at this point are darting around
to each of you. You each have a pixie hovering

right in front of you, quickly inspecting your
bodies. You can see now the central one, the

glowing purple, is in the air, backing up.

MARISHA: They didn't bite any of us or get any of
us. We're not infected.

MATT: They all look around. You see the pixies all
turn back, looking, okay. One of them by Grog

turns and goes, "He's been wounded!" Pointing at
his head.

LAURA: His cut?

TALIESIN: Oh, that was him.

SAM: I cut his eyebrow, and then he fucked himself
by trying to smash through the barrier that I

assume you created.

TRAVIS: Yeah, don't go through that wall. But
bidet.

TALIESIN: We're on a mission, though.

LAURA: A great mission.

MATT: "If we are to continue this conversation, we
need comfort. He is disquieting. Allow us."

LAURA: What are you going to--

TRAVIS: No, it's cool. Please, do as you will.

LIAM: What are we talking about?

TRAVIS: Let them feel at ease. Go ahead.

MATT: The older one glances over at you. Make a
constitution saving throw.

TRAVIS: Natural one. (laughs)

MATT: As you grin, you watch as his flesh goes an
even duller gray color as his entire body turns to

solid stone.

LIAM: Is that temporary? Is that going to last?

MATT: "Now. Let us have a conversation."

LAURA: Okay.

MATT: "So. You've encountered these beasts."

LAURA: Yes.

MARISHA: And they instructed us to kill you.

TALIESIN: No, not to kill.

LAURA: They wanted us to hurt you. To destroy your
circle of stones.

MATT: "They sent you to come and kill us and
destroy our home?"

LIAM: We misspoke. To destroy this circle.

MATT: "You speak in many words that do not meet as
one thought or theory."

TALIESIN: Well, you're a bit intimidating.

MATT: As the very tiny pixies all look at each
other and look at you large folk, there's a little

chuckle under their breath.

TALIESIN: We are wise enough to not judge a man or
woman by their size, good sir.

MARISHA: We didn't want to harm you, so we thought
if we just made it look to those silly, dumb

lycans like we hurt you. By throwing paper balls,
if you will.

TALIESIN: Stop antagonizing the Grog statue.

MARISHA: I did just a simple visual spell, and we
tried to move on, as to not get involved.

SAM: We did everything in our power to protect
you, and to not harm you. If our druid's

spellcasting frightened you, we apologize, but we
didn't know what else to do.

TALIESIN: And we have a bog to destroy.

LAURA: Yes, we're on a very important mission, and
we thought it might be the quickest way to

complete.

TALIESIN: There's a cancerous tree that we have
been sent to destroy.

LIAM: Honestly, we're scared of both you and the
lycan, and we just want to pass through. We want

no harm for you, and unfortunately, them, either.
We just want to walk on out of here.

MARISHA: This is not our fight, you see.

MATT: The older one is glancing about, and a
couple of the pixies drop next to her and whisper

into her ear, and her eyes are still darting
amongst you.

MARISHA: Can I understand what they're saying?

MATT: No, they're very small, and they're very
distant.

LAURA: That's really, really off-putting.

MATT: It's impressive. The two pixies separate.
The elder one crosses her fingers. "Few are those

"who would deal with such miscreants and foul
entities as those wolf kin, so much as to give our

"little hearts a possible scare of death to our
homes in an attempt to escape without but a

"conversation. This puts us at unease. We do not
like being at unease."

LAURA: Understandable. But we weren't trying to
deal with them. In fact, we made no deal with

them. We told them we wouldn't make a deal until
we spoke with you. But we were scared. We were too

scared.

MARISHA: They were trying to exploit our
abilities. We were being held against our will. We

were threatened with life or death. There was
nothing personal.

LIAM: Their leader is massive. We were scared.
This one wet his leg, and he's gigantic. We just

didn't know what to do.

MATT: She puts her hands up. "Very well. Mistakes
are made, and punishments are doled out. So. We

"shall return to our village. We shall lower the
barrier to you, and all shall be fine."

SAM: And our gray stone friend?

MATT: "He is your punishment for your infraction.
But we've learned our lessons, and you may go

"about your way."

SAM: How can we buy his freedom?

LIAM: We've got a tea set.

LAURA: How can we buy his freedom?

MATT: "There is no freedom to be bought. In these
worlds, words and actions speak volumes, and

"you've crossed our people. Right now, we could
take you all as new entries to our garden. We took

"but one. Be thankful you got off quite as easy.
The Wishers set you free."

LAURA: Thanks, Wisher.

MARISHA: It's okay. I can fix it.

SAM: What? What do you mean?

MARISHA: I have Greater Restoration. She left,
right? That wasn't in front of her. I didn't say

that to her.

MATT: Okay. She says, "Very well. Good luck on
your endeavor." The rest of the pixies gather up

around Grog's body, and you watch as they all glow
and his stone form, as heavy as it should be,

suddenly becomes weightless.

SAM: Wait.

TALIESIN: Wait, no, we need that.

MARISHA: Oh, they're taking him. Oh! I cast
Earthbind on Grog.

SAM: Earthbind?

MARISHA: Yeah. It should ground him.

MATT: It does. He slams into the ground with all
the weight of a falling stone goliath into the

dirt. At which point the pixies immediately go off
and turn around. "You would cast incantations

"towards us?"

MARISHA: No, I cast it to my friend, who is about
12 foot tall and a giant target. Come on, don't

make stories up where there aren't any.

MATT: "Stories, nothing."

MARISHA: What? You fairies are manifesting these
ideas, okay? You are creating a dichotomy that

does not exist.

MATT: They all gather and begin to whisper to each
other, their heads darting around.

MARISHA: Oh, see, look. They're doing it right
now.

MATT: At this point: "This display is enough. Your
words and your actions speak in difference, in

"entirely opposing directions. If you are to
continue to throw these words, these deceptions,

"these lies in our direction, then perhaps we'll
take you all for our garden."

TALIESIN: I wouldn't advise that.

MATT: "Then let us take him, and you move on with
your lesson." And they go and pick him up once

more.

LAURA: Wouldn't you rather have a song? Wouldn't
you rather have-- how often do you get a

performance?

TALIESIN: I cast Hex on the main pixie.

MATT: You do?

TALIESIN: I do.

SAM: That's it, it's on. I call out to the main
pixie: Wait. What's your name?

MATT: At this point, you guys watch as a shadow
all of a sudden darts up from the ground and

clings around the pixie. She whips around, at
which point you now hear another (impact) as the

stone Grog slams into the ground, all the pixies
scattering around.

MARISHA: See, that is what it looks like when an
incantation is targeted at you.

TALIESIN: It's not very nice, is it?

MATT: You now watch as all of the various very
gently falling fairy lights begin to (flitting) and be

absorbed by the pixies of the forest. As their
glows intensify, the purple halo growing, you see

the central elder figure of the Wisher pixies say,
"At least our allegiances now lie bare." I need

you all to roll initiative.

LAURA: Can you quickly--

MARISHA: It's one action. It's one fucking action.
I just looked it up for that reason. That's not

good. That's not a good initiative at all.

LAURA: Natural 20 on an initiative. I don't know
what I can do to them.

TALIESIN: 27.

MARISHA: I notoriously roll terrible on my
initiative.

SAM: How many are there?

TALIESIN: A lot, but they die quick.

MARISHA: Are they going to form a--

LAURA: A Voltron?

MARISHA: That's exactly what I was thinking,
yeah.

LAURA: I feel like it would be easier to hit if it
was a giant Voltron.

LIAM: Oh, that angle is not going to be kind to
those trees.

TALIESIN: What's the best check to give him? I can
give him disadvantage on an ability check. So

wisdom or intelligence?

LIAM: The werewolves were honorable. These guys
are assholes.

LAURA: Yeah, I know.

TALIESIN: I feel better about killing them.

LAURA: Me, too. They're dicks. They were going to
take Grog.

MARISHA: They were trying to take Grog. Fucking
assholes. I feel like we were very reasonable,

considering how unreasonable we normally are.

SAM: We were put between a rock and hard place.

MARISHA: And a hard Grog.

SAM: And we had no choice. Really. It was a bad
situation.

LAURA: Grog is on the ground? Oh, he is on the
ground.

MATT: Yes, he is.

TRAVIS: I'm stoned.

SAM: If Grog is permanently corrupted, we know
that we can download a fresh one from

Backblaze.com.

(laughter)

TRAVIS: Beautiful. That was too good.

TALIESIN: Just couldn't let it go. I'm so sorry. I
just couldn't let it go.

MARISHA: Was that my fault this time? it was a
mild combination. I might have contributed.

SAM: We should've fought the fucking werewolves.

LAURA: Yeah, we should've, but we didn't, because
we're idiots.

MATT: All right, initiative order. We have 25 to
20?

TALIESIN: 27.

LAURA: 27, as well, with a natural 20.

SAM: 21 for me.

TALIESIN: We are some fast motherfuckers.

SAM: I got sleep.

MATT: All right. 20 to 15?

LAURA: Those fairies are so spread out. I thought
they would all be together.

MATT: As soon as they dropped, they fanned out.

TALIESIN: We were trying really hard not to shoot
first.

MATT: 15 to ten?

LIAM: 13.

MATT: Ten to five? And Grog is stone. Sorry,
buddy.

MARISHA: You first, bud. Coming for you first.

MATT: All righty. Top of the round, Percy and Vex,
you're up first.

TALIESIN: Where's the one that I hexed?

MATT: The one that you hexed, which I will mark
here, looking overhead you can see is the one with

the brighter, vibrant glow right there. That is
currently the one, so I'm marking that as the Hex

right there. There you go.

TALIESIN: Do you think they're really hard to hit
because they're small?

LAURA: Probably. I'm going to move over to my
left.

MATT: Okay. Here?

LAURA: Yeah. A little bit more. I want to line
them up in a cone, so if I can get as many in a

cone as I can.

MATT: Okay. Do we have the cone templates? Because
they're not by me right now.

LAURA: It's a 60-foot cone there that I have. It's
a big cone.

MATT: It's a very big cone.

LIAM: What about just a comb?

LAURA: I want to cast Hunter's Mark on the shiny
one that he hexed, as well.

MATT: Hunter's Mark on that one as well.

LAURA: Double. They're weak, you guys! Milk jug
rings, take them out.

MATT: Thank you, Zack. I appreciate that. So
60-foot cone. You can get four of them into it.

LAURA: That gets the mamba jamba? Okay, good.
That's what I want.

MARISHA: What we don't want to do is spread out
too much and get fucked.

LAURA: Conjure Barrage.

MATT: Conjure Barrage. All right. Dexterity saving
throw. All right.

LAURA: It's a 15 for me.

MATT: That's a success. Success. Success. 18, 19,
19. And 16. All succeed.

LAURA: So they take half. 3d8, halved.

MATT: So roll damage, halved. Grog's stone form
takes full damage.

LAURA: Oh. Sorry. 15, halved. Plus Hunter's Mark
damage on the--

MATT: On the one, so roll for that one.

LAURA: I got three on that.

TALIESIN: Don't forget to Trinket.

LAURA: That's one action, isn't it?

TALIESIN: Is it an action?

MATT: It's an action to cast, yeah.

LAURA: So I can't use Trinket yet, because I
already did something.

MATT: All righty, so as everyone gathers up,
immediately as the fight begins you can see as Vex

puts a Hunter's Mark on the purple glowing pixie
and then pulls out an arrow, releases it, and then

it scatters into a blast of various shards of
sharpened wood, metal, and stone that goes

shooting into the nearby trees. You can see the
bark of the nearby tree trunks being covered with

various bits of ranger shrapnel as most of the
pixies try and avoid, but most getting blasted

with some semblance of impact.

That's going to end your turn, unless you want to
move some more.

LAURA: I want to duck behind that tree, like it's
going to do anything.

TRAVIS: How many points of damage was that?

MATT: To you? To your stone form? That was 15.

TRAVIS: 15.

MATT: From the blast of the impact you can see
parts of the stone get rough a little bit at

certain points.

TRAVIS: I can break.

LAURA: You can break.

MATT: Statues can break, and that's bad.

LAURA: That's super bad.

TRAVIS: Somebody lost an arm that way.

MATT: Do you want Trinket to move at all?

LAURA: Trinket runs and stands next to Keyleth.

MATT: All right. Got it. That brings us to Percy,
same turn.

TALIESIN: Taking a shot with Retort, with the
little pistol at the fucker I've marked. Dear god

almighty. 16 to hit?

MATT: 16 does not hit. As you try to shoot, this
tiny little glowing thing darts out of the way and

the bullet goes wide.

TALIESIN: Shoot again. That's better. 25.

MATT: That does hit.

TALIESIN: Okay. It has been way too long since
I've done this. It's making me a little nervous.

There we are. That's 11 points of piercing damage.
That's with three points of necro in there.

MATT: All right, so that's your second attack.
This time you do see as it moves out of the way

you compensate for it and fire, this time you see
the purple glow flicker as it takes an impact and

recaptures itself into its original position.

TALIESIN: And I'm going to take one more shot at
it with-- remind me if I can do this-- deadeye

with sharpshooter?

MATT: Deadeye sharpshooter? You can do that.

TALIESIN: All right, deadeye sharpshooter. Thank
god. This is just sucking. Oh my fucking god. I miss.

MATT: Okay. You don't misfire. All right, so after
the second shot hits, you fire, trying to

compensate a third time, but the pixie actually
stays in position and your fire goes wide once more.

TALIESIN: All right. Now I'm diving behind that
tree. Bottom right. Heading that way, yeah.

MATT: Cool, that ends your turn. The purple pixie
leader, the mystic you mentioned before, now

angrily comes fluttering forward, as you both have
vanished. Seeing this little circumstance, is

going to, from this position, look towards you at
the very front, Vax.

LIAM: Shit.

MATT: It begins reciting under its breath.

SAM: I'll do Counterspell at level six.

MARISHA: Oh snapricot.

TALIESIN: Did you just say "snapricot?"

MARISHA: I'm a fucking hipster.

TALIESIN: This is going so poorly.

LIAM: (Gollum voice) Nasty.

MATT: As you cast your Counterspell, mark off your
6th-level spell. It finishes the incantation, as

it does, a bit of arcane energy sprays forth from
its fingertips and dissipates around it.

LIAM: Aw, that's sad.

MATT: Darts backwards.

LAURA: Out of camera view.

MATT: All right, Scanlan you're up.

SAM: They're so far, and I don't know what they
can do. Probably a lot. I'll step towards that

tree in front of me, in front of the bear and the
girl.

MATT: That's far as you can get.

SAM: That cluster of the pixies over there? I'll
see if I can get three of them in a Fireball.

MATT: Okay.

SAM: If I can, the leader and the ones closest to
the leader. But I don't know if I'm within range.

MATT: Okay, you just using a single charge for
it?

SAM: Oh yeah, I have lots of charges, don't I?

MATT: How many came back? You have to roll for the
last couple of times you've gotten a full rest.

SAM: I haven't used them in a long time.

MATT: Yeah that's true, actually.

SAM: I'll use two. A 4th-level spell, right?

MATT: 4th-level Fireball.

SAM: So it's 9d6.

MATT: Okay.

SAM: Range is 150 feet. Radius is 20 feet.

MATT: All right. As you pull out the wand and
release it, one of the nearby pixies-- It has no

effect.

TALIESIN: Assholes.

SAM: Wait, they can do that, too?

MATT: Oh my god, other people can counter.

LIAM: Passive-aggressive dungeon master! Oh,
that's so sad. Oh.

MATT: So the wand once again sputters out, as
well.

SAM: It's dead? Or it still might work after
that?

MATT: Well, it might still work after that.

SAM: That one use, okay. Can I move any more, or
am I all moved out?

MATT: That's the end of your movement.

SAM: I'll inspire Keyleth. I'll turn to her and
say: (singing) It's been a hard fey's night, and

you've got to unfreeze Grog. It's been a hard
fey's night, because we've been fighting like a dog.

MARISHA: Okay, I can do that.

MATT: That the end of Scanlan's turn? All right.
It's now the pixies' turn.

LIAM: Damn it, Bobby.

LAURA: They're all super magic, super-duper magic.

MATT: Actually, it's going to stay here, and
before it moves... that will be in range. If I could

have Keyleth make a wisdom saving throw.

MARISHA: This is my bailiwick, yo.

TALIESIN: You also have an inspiration die.

MARISHA: I have an inspiration die. Ooh, I don't
think I'll need it, though. 28.

MATT: 28, yeah. No effect on you whatsoever.

MARISHA: You even lift, bro? Come at me, bro. Got
the John Cena going on.

MATT: This one over here, as it flutters by after
seeing you attempt to cast the spell, Scanlan, I

need you to go ahead and make a 
wisdom saving throw.

SAM: Oh, boy. Advantage against magic.

MATT: That's magic in general?

TALIESIN: Yeah. I'm looking at it. Yeah, advantage
versus magic on his saving throw.

MATT: From what, though?

SAM: I don't know, bard shit.

MARISHA: Is it because War Caster?

MATT: No, War Caster is advantage on concentration
checks to maintain.

SAM: No it's not War Caster. It's something else.

TALIESIN: It's on his sheet, which means he found
it somewhere.

MARISHA: And it's typed. It's typed up; it's not
written in.

SAM: I probably didn't get it anyway, actually.
Both rolls were shitty, and I only rolled a total

of five on the better one.

MATT: So as the pixie darts to the side, it
mutters something underneath it and raises its

hands up. Scanlan, all of a sudden your body
shimmers for a second, and you guys watch as the

already small gnome becomes even smaller.

LAURA: We're going to die.

MATT: He is now a badger.

SAM: I'm a what? I'm a badger?!

MATT: It then continues its movement over here by
the side of the tree.

SAM: Gnome Cunning, Matt.

TRAVIS: I tried to be diplomatic.

TALIESIN: A lot of good it did you.

LAURA: Why'd you do that?

LIAM: That's Scanlan's bag, man.

TRAVIS: Yeah, but I thought we were all-- never
mind.

TALIESIN: We would be getting our asses kicked by
a group of werewolves right now.

TRAVIS: People were preparing tea, you were being
cordial. I was trying to be disarming. Next time,

everything dies.

SAM: This is our punishment for--

TALIESIN: Trying to settle this amicably.

MATT: For intelligence, wisdom or charisma--

SAM: Yeah, that was a wisdom.

MATT: Yeah, so you're fine. Universal, so strength
saves, it doesn't help for any of those.

SAM: It's just saves against magic for those three
things.

MATT: This other one here, glancing over and
seeing you there, is going to look towards you. I

need you to make a wisdom saving throw.

LIAM: I've got advantage. Good, I got a 19.

MATT: 19. You have advantage from?

LIAM: Being a half-elf. Oh, it's not charm, is it?
Then the first one was shitty. Ten or 11,

somewhere around there.

MATT: You are a kitty cat.

LIAM: Can I use luck to take my second roll? I
have luck left?

MATT: You have one luck left?

LIAM: I have two luck left, after sleeping.

MATT: Yeah, technically.

LIAM: Okay, so the second was a 17. Plus two,
would've been a 19.

LAURA: So you're not a kitty cat?

LIAM: No, I really would like to be a kitty cat.

SAM: What happened?

LIAM: I asked if I could use one of my lucks
instead.

SAM: So wait, he's not a kitty cat?

LIAM: In my heart, I am a kitty cat.

LAURA: Grog is stone.

LIAM: There's worse things than being a kitten,
right?

MATT: This one over here leans towards you,
Keyleth. I need you to make another wisdom saving

throw.

MARISHA: Already? Come on. Come at me, bro.

LIAM: We should have all been pixies from the
beginning.

MARISHA: Okay, 27.

MATT: 27. You never roll low on those wisdom
saving throws. It's really frustrating.

MARISHA: Wise as fuck.

MATT: All righty, now comes to Vax.

LIAM: Click go the boots. I'm going to run 12
squares and squat down just north of Grog. I'm not

going to shit on you. I think I can make it all
the way around to the other side of Grog, and I'm

going to dagger, dagger, dagger at queen of the
pixies there.

MATT: Right there? Okay, go for it.

LIAM: Okay, first is shit, second is a natural 20.
Third is an 18.

MATT: Okay, second two hit.

LIAM: All right. Yeah, but it's not anything
fancy. That's the weakness of the rogue. Where's

my pyramid? There it is. So the first one which
was the critical is big 11 for the first one on a

critical. And the second one, I'll put poison on
it, as well. Seven for the damage, and it's a DC

of 15, for poison.

MATT: For poison, it does not succeed. It is
poisoned.

LIAM: That's 2d10. 14 with poison.

MATT: Nice. All right, so now the mystic, the
central pixie is fluttering, but it's not looking

amazing. All right, so that ends your turn? All
righty. That brings us to Keyleth.

SAM: Shouldn't have gone in that cave, man.

MARISHA: Can I dash and go a little bit further
and still do an action and lose a bonus action?

No, it's either like run or nothing?

MATT: A dash is an action, meaning you move and
then your dash, to move more, is your action.

MARISHA: Okay. Here's what I'm going to do, I'm
going to try and start making my way towards Grog,

I'm going to do the 30 feet towards him.

MATT: Okay.

MARISHA: Do I see the fairy leader?

MATT: You see her with a little bit of cover.

MARISHA: I'm going to blow my 6th-level spell. I'm
going to cast Sunbeam, and Sunbeam her in the face.

TALIESIN: Does that go through her? There's one on
the other side of her.

MARISHA: Oh! Does it go through to the one on the
other side behind her?

MATT: No, it would go in this direction. She's
right here.

MARISHA: I was looking at the red one, closer to
me. I don't have the fucking pointer!

SAM: That's Grog, the red thing near you is Grog.

MARISHA: No, not that fucking red-- this one. Yes,
that one. Jesus. And the one behind it.

MATT: All right, so. As you muster your Sunbeam,
the leader, who has not used her reaction yet, is

going to attempt to counter that.

MARISHA: No!

MATT: 6th-level, though, so it isn't an
auto-counter. She has to roll for it.

SAM: It's a contested thing.

MARISHA: Fucking bitch. I said bitch! I was
trying to be nice to you fairies!

MATT: Counterspell, so that DC is 16. That is a
19.

MARISHA: No, it's not!

MATT: It is 19, unfortunately.

MARISHA: Goddamn it, that was a 6th-level spell!

MATT: I know.

LIAM: The grace and poise of the Ashari.

MATT: As you muster your Sunbeam, the currently
wounded, poisoned-- let me check one thing real

fast. On attack rolls and ability checks, because
she's poisoned, she has disadvantage and has to

roll again.

MARISHA: That's right, she does!

MATT: A natural 20.

TRAVIS: No way.

MATT: Yeah. So it still counters it. So you go to
put your Sunbeam, the light begins to build up

into the middle of your grasp, as you're about to
unleash it and she darts up from behind the side

of the tree and unleashes a torrent of arcane
energy that feels like a gust of warm wind hits

and scatters the Sunbeam from your grasp, the
spell lost.

LIAM: Umbrasyl, in the can. Fairies, dead as
shit.

MARISHA: You guys are supposed to have good
parades.

MATT: All right, that's the end of your turn
Keyleth? All right. Garmelie turns invisible.

LAURA: Of course he does.

SAM: Don't they want to Counterspell that?

LAURA: Oh no, and he took out a tree while he was
at it!

MATT: Got to find a way to fix the glare on the
mat without the angle falling forward. All right,

top of the round, Percy and Vex, you guys are up.

LAURA: You go.

TALIESIN: Okay. From my vantage point I'm going to
sit down, take out Bad News, take another deadeye

sharpshooter with Bad News at the big fat fucker
by the tree.

MATT: As of right now, technically, you have no
sight on her.

TALIESIN: I don't?

MATT: You are way back there, and she is
completely behind the tree.

TALIESIN: Can I take a step out to the left? As
long as she has less than three-quarters cover,

I'm okay.

MATT: Right, so you would have to move-- she's
very tiny, and the tree that's probably five foot

or more thick. So based on her size, as part of
her advantage in using these trees is you'd have

to get over here before you can see her.

TALIESIN: Okay, so I'll move to my right a little
bit, then, and I will shoot that fucker that's

right in front of me.

MATT: All right. This one?

TALIESIN: Yep. Sharpshooter and with deadeye.

MATT: Go for it.

TALIESIN: That's a natural 20. That makes the grit
go away, anyway, so nice.

TRAVIS: Fucking golden snitch.

TALIESIN: That actually wasn't the golden snitch.
I was just feeling like they had something on me.

Okay, so this is double the dice?

MATT: Yeah, you roll the dice and then double
that.

TALIESIN: Roll the dice, double it, and then I add
everything. Lordy, this is going to be

disintegration. Six, 12, 22, 28 points of damage.

MATT: 28 points of piercing damage?

TALIESIN: Yep.

MATT: To that one, all righty. That's adding the
sharpshooter?

TALIESIN: Yeah, I rolled really low.

MATT: Okay, gotcha. Okay, so you take the shot,
the blast echoing throughout the trees and the

treeline. You watch as the pixie takes the slug and
actually gets thrown to the ground and then

flutters back up, barely.

TALIESIN: Flutters back up, barely?

MATT: Yeah. It was undamaged before.

TALIESIN: Nothing fancy, just hitting it again.

MATT: All right.

TALIESIN: That's a 23.

MATT: That'll hit. Roll damage.

TALIESIN: That's better. 24 points of damage.

MATT: 24 points of damage. You hear this horrible,
high pitched (yelps) as the light is scattered by

a burst of what looks like a tiny blood spray, and
dust and smoke.

TALIESIN: I call out: One! And back up behind the
tree.

MARISHA: Out of how many?

MATT: All right, Vex.

LAURA: Okay. If I step out from behind the tree,
do I have a sight on the big one?

MATT: You do have a sight on the big one, yes.
It'll get cover bonuses. You'd have to get over here

to see it.

LAURA: Can I walk over there, then? Okay. I walk
to there. I want to use my Longbow of the Sky

Sentinel and attack it.

MATT: You initiate the bow, pull back the arrow,
and release as it splits into three different

arrows.

LAURA: Natural 20.

TRAVIS: I'm looking at it.

MATT: Jesus Christ. Okay.

SAM: Defying statistics, one roll at a time.

LAURA: 12 plus 12. 24.

MATT: Okay, 24. Wait, 12 plus 12, 24? All right, so
the second one hits.

LAURA: And then 22 on the third.

MATT: All three hit. Even with three-quarters
cover, the last one just barely hits. Roll damage

on all three.

TALIESIN: Kill them all.

LAURA: 20 on the first hit, no-- oh shit. You
double the dice? Six, that's 12.

LIAM: So add six to what you were saying,
originally. You said 20, so it'd be 26 if you're

doubling that die.

LAURA: 26 plus another five, so 31 on the first
hit.

MATT: 31 on the first hit, okay.

LAURA: 17 on the second.

MATT: All right.

LAURA: 17 plus five is 22 on the third.

MATT: You watch as the purple light gets stapled
to a tree in the back. You watch as the arrow hits

her and carries her and she tries to pull herself
off of the arrow as it's holding her against the

distant tree and then it goes limp against it and
the light slowly fades.

LAURA: Oh. So I shout out: Two! Your leader's
dead! You want to still fight us?

MATT: You've got two more squares of movement if
you want to use them.

LAURA: I move towards the tree.

MATT: This way or this way?

LAURA: That way.

MATT: This way. All righty, that ends your turn.
It would be her turn, but she just got stapled to

a tree. Scanlan, you're up.

TALIESIN: Build a dam. Sorry.

MATT: No, she didn't turn you into that. One of
the other ones did, I believe.

TALIESIN: Actually, the one I killed turned him--

MATT: You're right. Thank you. Scanlan has dropped
beaver form.

SAM: Oh my god, I was not expecting that, and
therefore have no idea what I'll do. So

there's pixies everywhere?

MATT: You can only really see one of them right
now. Yeah, this one's supposed to be there.

SAM: Which one?

MATT: You can see that one over there.

SAM: Is there one behind me? You can't see one
that I can see, actually. There's one around the tree.

MATT: Oh, sorry, two. You can see that one,
yeah.

MARISHA: I'll help him first, but yeah. I can do
that.

LIAM: They could possibly turn on us, though.

MATT: What're you doing, Scanlan?

SAM: I wasn't expecting to move! I can't see the
leader, right?

MATT: No, you can see the leader. She's fucking
dead, yo.

TALIESIN: She's pixie dust.

SAM: Shit! Not ready for this!

LIAM: Y'all ready for this?

SAM: Shit! Okay, I'll turn around, and let's just
hope that it works this time.

LAURA: Wow, this is the longest--

SAM: I don't know! I wasn't expecting to move! How
close am I to that one near the tree? Can I move

to her?

MATT: Here? This one or this one?

SAM: The closest one to me, and how close am I?

MATT: This one's closest to you, and it's 20 feet
from you.

SAM: Okay, I'm going to run to it, her, it,
whatever, because I don't think they can-- well,

maybe they can Counterspell this, but I'll do a
Thunderwave.

MATT: You do a Thunderwave?

SAM: Yeah. At level two.

MATT: That one is going to attempt to
Counterspell. Each one of them gets a

Counterspell; that one's not done it yet.

SAM: I do have a sword, shit, I'm the worst at
this!

MATT: So as you rush up and begin casting it sees
you rushing up and its eyes go wide for a second

as it instinctually puts its hands out and the
Thunderwave falls flat before you.

SAM: Shit, I'm the worst at this!

TALIESIN: Going to be a beaver again.

SAM: I am going to be a beaver again. That's it.
That's all I can do.

LAURA: I thought he was a honey badger.

MATT: Little angry badger.

SAM: Who's alive still? I'll inspire... shit, I'm
failing.

TALIESIN: I've never seen this before.

LAURA: He's broken. It's stealing all of his
energy!

TALIESIN: Inspire Vax.

SAM: I'll inspire Vax.

LIAM: Which one?

SAM: The girl!

TALIESIN: The guy!

SAM: I don't want to inspire him. I want to
inspire her.

MARISHA: That's Vex.

SAM: Vex, the girl. I'll say: (singing) Vex is natural, Vex
is fun! Vex is good when she's one-on-one.

LIAM: I was next to go, but that's still good.

SAM: I don't know. I was a badger! I don't know
what's been going on.

MATT: All right, that completes your turn. You
take your inspiration dice. It is now the pixies'

run. This one over here at this distance is
glancing over and saw its leader get thrashed off

to the side after having a series of daggers
thrown into it. You attempted to cast a giant beam

at that one in the distance as well, though, so
I'm going to say it's going to go for you.

Keyleth, I need you to make a constitution saving
throw.

MARISHA: What? Why that one? I do still have my
inspiration.

TALIESIN: This ain't going to be no thing. It's
going to be great. It's going to be beautiful.

MARISHA: Natural 20! My voice just cracked, but
it's a natural 20.

TALIESIN: Isn't it hilarious that we all have work
tomorrow?

MARISHA: It is. No, I have a recording and an
audition tomorrow.

LIAM: It actually rolled when you moved the
paper.

LAURA: When you moved the paper, you rolled it.

MARISHA: No, I did, guys.

MATT: Roll it again.

LAURA: I'm sorry!

MARISHA: When I revealed it, it was a 20. That's
okay. I'm going to do inspiration though, just for

safe measure. That's good, so 20 total now.

MATT: 20 total, okay.

MARISHA: That's still exciting.

MATT: As it reaches out towards you, you feel your
physical body all of a sudden begins to tighten,

and you flex, and it regains its composure. No
effect.

MARISHA: And I just give her a-- (grunts) from the corner.

MATT: This one here is going to dart past, and as
it does, from tree to tree, I need you to make a

constitution saving throw.

LIAM: Straight up 15. Fuck it, I'll use luck. I've
got one more. Another 15.

MATT: 15 total? All right, you are currently
restrained as your body tightens up and you are

unable to move, shift, take any actions.

MARISHA: Did you go, too?

LIAM: I was about to, but not anymore.

MARISHA: Are you petrified, too?

LAURA: No, he's restrained.

MARISHA: Did he get turned to stone?

MATT: His body is beginning to turn to stone right
now. His muscles are beginning to tense up. As

this one darts past, it is going to attempt to-- I
need you to make another constitution saving

throw, Keyleth, as it watched it fade from the
last one.

MARISHA: I don't have any inspiration left.
Natural 20! This is a real one, this time! A real one!

TRAVIS: What is the deal?

MATT: We're gone for one week. You guys can save
these for throughout the campaign. This is a pixie fight.

LAURA: It's a really powerful pixie fight.

MATT: These are nasty in their strengths. They're
not very strong in a lot of things, but the few

things they have are pretty good.

MARISHA: We know. We're still terrified.

MATT: Good. Well, you resist your second attempt
at being petrified.

LIAM: Am I restrained, or am I slowed?

MATT: You're restrained, which means you can't
move. The actual definition: attacks against you

have advantage. Your attacks have disadvantage.

LIAM: So I can still do stuff?

MATT: Correct.

LIAM: What do freezing up and haste do mixed
together? Anything? Cancel out?

MATT: It doesn't cancel out, it just means that
you have disadvantage on all of your attacks. Your

speed is zero; you can't move.

LIAM: Do I have a third attack?

MATT: You do have a third attack.

LIAM: Very confusing. Feywild, man.

SAM: You're fast and slow.

TALIESIN: Hot and cold.

MATT: This guy here-- I need you to make a
constitution saving throw as it peeks around the

tree from its current position.

LAURA: You get one, and you get one! And I'm
going to fail.

SAM: You've got some inspiration, lady.

LAURA: I got inspiration! 21!

MATT: 21. You resist the effect.

SAM: I was right to inspire her after all.
Someone's got to live!

TALIESIN: To tell the tale of the death and end of
Vox Machina to little people.

LAURA: How many more pixies are there?

MATT: That was the last one going on its turn.
Vax, you're up.

LIAM: I am going to dagger, dagger, dagger the
pixie in front of Scanlan, so I should get sneak

attack? I don't have advantage, so I don't get
sneak attack. That's three attacks. First one is

shit. 19?

MATT: With disadvantage? Hits.

LIAM: All right. Second one is 19.

MATT: Hits.

LIAM: The last one is a 15.

MATT: Misses. So two hit.

LIAM: Yeah, whatever. 11. And eight. 19 total.

LAURA: Can you poison damage it?

LIAM: No.

MATT: That one's looking pretty rough right now,
actually.

LIAM: And I say: (strained).

MATT: At the end of your turn, I need you to make
another constitution saving throw.

LAURA: Come on! Do you have any more luck?

LIAM: No, I used it all up. I didn't cross it off.
Two.

MATT: Vax now turns to a solid stone statue,
frozen in place. Two members of your party are now

turned to stone. All right, that brings us to
Keyleth's turn.

MARISHA: I'm going to continue my two steps
towards Grog, since he was my first destination,

and do Greater Restoration and unpetrify him.

MATT: Okay, what level is that spell?

MARISHA: Fucking 5th.

MATT: 5th-level? Only one of them has Counterspell
left, and it's going to attempt it, but since it

is at 5th-level, mark that off. It does still have
to roll against it. DC is ten plus five, so DC 15.

MARISHA: If they make this, it's bad news.

TRAVIS: They made it, didn't they?

MATT: Yeah. It's a 15 plus three, sorry.

MARISHA: They had to make 15? Not my spell save DC
or anything?

MATT: That's not how it works for Counterspell.
The good news is they're out of Counterspells.

MARISHA: Fucking fantastic now that I've burnt
through two of my top-level ones!

MATT: You reach forward and grab Grog. You see the
pulse of energy, and it dissipates. You look over

at the edge of the tree. You see one of the pixies
darting behind and disappears behind the trunk.

That ends your turn. Back to the top. Percy and
Vex.

TALIESIN: I'll go. Do you want to go first? I'll
go first.

MARISHA: Wait! I wanted to do a bonus action! I
did want to do something on a bonus action.

MATT: What do you want to do?

MARISHA: Can I Alter Self my throat and (howls)
give a wolf howl?

MATT: Sure, make a performance check.

SAM: Are you calling for the fucking werewolves?

MARISHA: Yes, I'm calling for the lycans. Ooh,
that's good. 23.

MATT: Good to know. You howl out into the woods.
Ends your turn. Percy, Vex.

TALIESIN: I'm going to flip around and take a shot
at that jerk right there with the Retort pistol,

not the Bad News. Standard shot. That's a 31 to
hit.

MATT: That hits.

TALIESIN: And that's 14 points of damage.

MATT: That one is spattered by the impact. You see
the chunks of it hit the tree behind, and you see

a wing right in front of you, Scanlan.

TALIESIN: I reload. I flip around the other side
of the tree.

MATT: Over to this side here?

TALIESIN: Over to this side so I can get a good
vantage point on that one that thinks it's hiding

right over there. I use my bonus action to cast
Hex on him.

MATT: To carry it over?

TALIESIN: Yep, to carry it over. And I take a shot
at him. That's 22 to hit?

MATT: 22 hits.

TALIESIN: Ten points of damage. Three necrotic.

MATT: It gets shot. The impact hits the tree next
to it, but it splinters and hits it, takes some

damage but not a whole lot.

TALIESIN: I'm going to burn an action surge and
take three more shots at it.

MATT: You can do that. You're ignoring the cover
because of your sharpshooter feat, so go for it.

TALIESIN: I'm going to roll a sharpshooter for
that one, as well, which is great because I rolled

a two and a natural 20. That's natural 20 with
sharpshooter. That also means that I lose that

grit. This is going to be great. That's great.
Ten, 20, 30, 36 points of damage.

LAURA: How many fairies are left?

MATT: You have currently two fairies left.

LAURA: I don't see them on the board from where I
am.

MATT: No, you don't see them. They're hidden.

TALIESIN: I'm taking two more steps, and I'm
getting that next fairy that thinks he can fucking

hide from me.

MATT: There are two behind this tree and one
behind this tree.

TALIESIN: I'm taking one more step out so I can
see him. Actually, I have pretty good sight, don't I?

MATT: From there, you can still see him.

TALIESIN: I've got two more shots. I'm going to do
the same thing with the sharpshooter deadeye combo.

That's right. I can't get Hex until next round,
though. 27 to hit.

MATT: Hits. Damage on that one?

TALIESIN: That's 16 points of damage.

MATT: The pixie gets hit and holds itself against
the tree. Its wings stop fluttering. It looks over

at where the impact came from and stares down at
you.

TALIESIN: Another shot at him. Same deal.

LAURA: I can spot him now because I can see where
Percy's shooting at, right?

MATT: Yeah.

TALIESIN: 28.

MATT: Hits.

TALIESIN: Eight points of damage.

MATT: It gets another hit. This one impacts just
near it and clips one of its wings. It's still

holding in there.

TALIESIN: I dive back around the tree, and that's
the end of my turn.

LAURA: Where was it that he was shooting at?

MATT: Over this way.

LAURA: Can Trinket reach it?

MATT: Trinket can try. Trinket's not going to be
able to get there, though.

LAURA: Then I'm going to attack it. Can I attack
it from where I am?

MATT: You currently have no way of seeing it right
now unless you move far enough in that direction.

You may.

LAURA: I'm going to try to get into sight.

MATT: That's as far as you can get. I would say it
has three-quarters cover, so you can attack it,

but it gets plus five to its AC.

LAURA: Okay. I'm going to attack it. 23?

MATT: 23 hits.

LAURA: Then I'm going to attack it again with my
blazing bowstring. 26.

MATT: That hits.

LAURA: Can I move my Hunter's Mark over?

LIAM: Eye squint says no.

MATT: Sure. Because it's a bonus action, you
would've done it.

LAURA: Thanks, man! Okay, seven plus seven. 22 on
the first hit. 24 on the second hit.

MATT: (arrows loosed) Off to the side. One arrow
actually grabs it by the shoulder and hits it

against the tree there, and as it tries to pull
the arrow out, which is this giant shaft that's

shattered its shoulder entirely, it looks back at
you as you take its head off its shoulders.

LAURA: Teeny tiny little piece of shit!

TRAVIS: The cutest swear ever.

LAURA: I can't move anymore?

MATT: No, that's as far as you can move. Does that
end your turn? Scanlan, you're up.

SAM: Do I see any of them?

MATT: You do not.

SAM: Shit. I'm going to run as far as I can into
the open and see if I can see any of them, while

I'm yelling: Where are they?

MATT: You can just barely see two of them behind
that tree right there.

SAM: Behind that tree? You mean behind Grog and
stuff?

MATT: Behind Grog, Vax, Keyleth, and that
cluster.

SAM: Do I have a clear shot? Without killing my
friends?

MATT: Depends what you're doing.

SAM: With a Lightning Bolt.

MATT: It's probably going to hit Vax, but who
knows the effect lightning would have on stone?

SAM: Well, then I won't do that. I'll cast Bigby's
Hand at level seven and punch into that.

LIAM: Big swollen hand, fucking fat veins on the
back of the hand.

MARISHA: Have you been lifting, Bigby?

LAURA: You're looking good, Bigby.

MARISHA: You know those Hulk gloves?

MATT: At 7th-level. So it does an additional
4d-whatever it does. So which ability are you

using Bigby's Hand?

SAM: Just a big old punch. Pummeling hand.
Punching hand.

MATT: The clenched fist. Roll a melee spell attack
against its armor class. So roll a d20 and add

your spell attack bonus.

SAM: 25.

MATT: That hits. Roll 8d8 force damage.

SAM: 8d8? I don't even have any.

TALIESIN: Here's two more d8.

MATT: It's 4d8, but because you did it two levels
higher, it's 8d8.

TALIESIN: Roll them twice. Whoa!

MARISHA: Oh shit. You're a force to be reckoned
with. They were all above seven.

TALIESIN: You're going to leave an impression in
the tree.

SAM: 45.

MATT: Where once there was a pixie, there is a
brief spatter of reddish-pink mist, and nothing

thereafter. Bigby's Hand has sent it so hard to
its afterlife that there is a small black mark on

the tree nearby where it once was, just an echo of
its existence at one point.

TALIESIN: You just clapped a fairy to death.
That's actually literally the opposite.

MARISHA: High five! Aw.

SAM: Is that all the pixies?

TALIESIN: There's one left.

LAURA: We shouldn't kill it! See if it can
unfreeze our friends!

SAM: I got nothing left. That was my action and
bonus.

MATT: All right, end of Scanlan's turn. The pixie
then turns about and begins running. As it

disappears past the trees a little bit, you watch
as a large, dark form lands right in front of it.

It stops for a second, and two giant claws reach
down and grasp it in its hand, pick it up, and you

can see before you, Lord Ukurat is now clutching
this one pixie that was trying to escape. Looks

inside for a second. (chuckles) "Vengeance is
tasty." (chomps) "Not very filling." Stomps

forward.

LAURA: Be confident!

MATT: "So. You called."

SAM: We called because our plan worked perfectly,
and we were able to fulfill your deal to the

letter, as we had always intended.

MATT: Make a deception check.

MARISHA: Come on, Scanlan!

SAM: I think I'm still at disadvantage.

MATT: On ability checks, you are.

SAM: With disadvantage, it's a 30.

MATT: You can also add your own bardic inspiration
to your ability checks now because you're level

14. But if you feel pretty confident with it--

SAM: I'm okay with 30.

LAURA: Oh no! Should you add it? Add it!

MATT: It's too late.

SAM: We'll never know.

MATT: You're going to know pretty quick. As you
say this, he comes forward and gets really low to

the ground with his arms out at the sides, face right
up to you. He could snatch you up in one bite. He

goes, "Clever gnome." Stands back up. "So. One
pixie, two pixie, three, four. Where is their leader?"

TALIESIN: I walk over and scrape the tree.

MATT: Takes a look at it. (howls) All the rest of
the various members of his clan of the Fendirs

begin to arrive in the distance.

"Yes, my lord?"

"The mystic is dead. Wipe up the village. Come.
You have the rest of your deal to attend to."

Turns around and begins walking back toward the
city of the pixies.

LAURA: We have some friends that are stone right
now.

MATT: "Then bring them along!"

SAM: Keyleth, do you need help?

MARISHA: I take my last 5th-level spell to dump a
Greater Restoration into Grog to bring him back

from petrification.

SAM: You can't do it to two people at the same
time?

MARISHA: I can burn my 7th-level spell to bring
back Vax.

LAURA: Maybe you should do that.

MARISHA: I will burn my 7th-level spell to Greater
Restoration Vax and bring him back.

MATT: You come to consciousness, Grog, suddenly,
in a different space than you recall, a little

stiff in the joints, like you just had a really
bad night's sleep across a whole pallet of broken rock.

TRAVIS: Diplomacy really isn't that bad!

LAURA: It's not so bad. Good job, Grog.

TRAVIS: I'm going to throw my weapons in the
river. Hold on, I'll be right back.

MARISHA: You make a great parade balloon, by the
way. You look great.

TRAVIS: Why, thank you.

MATT: Vax, as you come to, the heat of the moment,
you catch your breath again, and feel that

achiness in your joints.

LIAM: I do, I literally do.

LAURA: Doesn't feel so good, does it? Hey,
remember when I was made into stone? We're

twinkies.

LIAM: Twinkies? I don't think that's the term
you're reaching for.

TRAVIS: All the wolves are back. What happened?

TALIESIN: We are going to finish off the fairies.

TRAVIS: Oh, really?

TALIESIN: Yes, really.

TRAVIS: Oh, so something happened, didn't it?

TALIESIN: It did.

SAM: Sorry, Grog.

TALIESIN: It was all your fault, really. You were
very helpful.

MARISHA: To be fair, I tried. Those fairies are
shifty little shits.

TRAVIS: Really? They fought hard? We're going to
kill more now?

SAM: Probably.

TRAVIS: Any tips? Advice?

TALIESIN: Hit hard, repeatedly.

SAM: Don't use any of your lower-level spells.

TRAVIS: Don't think that's a problem.

TALIESIN: No, you burned your lower-level spells.

MARISHA: I am burnt out on all my higher-level
spells.

TRAVIS: Are we cool with the wolves now?

TALIESIN: We're starting to be.

LAURA: We have to go finish what we started,
though. They want us to still desecrate the stones.

LIAM: Scanlan?

SAM: I'm ready. I've eaten a lot of things today.

MATT: Garmelie appears behind one of the trees.
"Is everything cool? Everything good?"

MARISHA: Oh my god, you're still here!

MATT: "Okay. No, I was-- got you guys' back."

LAURA: Did you draw a lot of the fight? I hope you
did, because we kicked some ass there.

MATT: He opens his sketch pad, and you can see
there's a bunch of hastily drawn sketches of Vax

turned to stone with his finger up his nose, Grog
in the ground with his stone thumb up his butt,

smiling with his other thumb up in the air like he
was. And the rest of you fumbling your attacks as

the pixies are laughing.

LAURA: Sweet. Nice. Very good. That tree just
moved.

TALIESIN: They do that here.

MATT: Welcome to the Feywild. So you guys make
your way nightward? Following the Fendirs?

TALIESIN: I guess it's the only way out of here.

MATT: You journey with them. They make a pretty
quick pace. Even at your fastest, you resort to

tracking them. They're moving with quite alacrity
and they know this forest really well. As you guys

begin to approach the outskirts of the little
grove where the Wishers existed, you see a heavy

battle has just begun to calm down. You see two
additional wolf statues now stand amongst the

area, but the abodes have been destroyed. You see
that the tiger has grabbed a pixie and tears it in

half. A couple others that have been darting
off in the distance, trying to escape, three more

of the wolves jump up into the trees, and you see
them jumping from branch to branch before their lights--

MARISHA: We tried. I didn't want this to happen.

TALIESIN: It's a violent world.

MATT: At this point, they all begin to slowly
gather again towards the center of the town, or

what used to be the pixie town. From the treetop,
(boom) Lord Ukurat lands next to the stone circle,

looks out towards you guys, even beyond the tree
line.

SAM: Grog, care to do the honors?

TRAVIS: Absolutely. I walk up to Lord Pup.

LIAM: I'm going to follow close behind Grog.

MATT: All the rest of the Fendirs, which are now a
few more in number than you initially met before.

We have two more that have turned to stone, so
there's now five total that are stone in the

center of this village, but looks to be about nine
of them now gathered up centrally to this space,

Lord Ukurat in the center. They're beginning to
follow in around you guys, keeping a perimeter.

Ukurat looks down at you as you approach. "So. Honor
comes at the end of the journey. We made a pact,

"and you completed your end. We complete ours. You
are free to pass through this forest." As Lord

Ukurat reaches down and grabs two of the stones,
you can see as his fingers grab them, they're

burning his palms, singeing. There's a bunch of
energy pushing back on him as his fur is blown and

there's a bright light emanating from the center
of the circle. Wrestles them forth from the

ground. As he does, there's a crack of thunder
that cascades throughout the center of the forest.

All of you feel the impact. The stone circle, the
glowing quartz now dims and goes cold. The center

where it used to be vibrant grass slowly turns to
a dull gray and withers between the stones. Throws

them to the ground. "Now, we are all free. You say
you travel duskward to the corrupted tree, yes?"

LAURA: Yes.

MATT: "I will follow as my people find a new home
for tonight. Should you need my help, just call,

"and I will be at your back."

LAURA: You are a powerful ally.

MATT: "As are you. Brethren, go. Spread. Find a
home again. I will return to you once this debt is

"paid. Now, I'll be watching." He leaps into the
treetops as the rest of the wolves begin to back

away from you and vanish into the shadows of the
forest.

LAURA: Is there anything around that looks good to
take?

SAM: Should we loot the mini city?

TALIESIN: I am abso-fucking-lutely looting this
city. Are you mad?

SAM: They're tiny thimbles full of nothing!

TALIESIN: I have a dollhouse at home! There are
things that are necessary! Jesus.

MATT: You are welcome to make some investigation
checks to scour through the remains of this pixie

village.

SAM: 17 for me.

LAURA: 23.

MATT: 23. What was it again, sorry?

TALIESIN: 13.

MATT: The rest of you guys keeping back on this?

TALIESIN: I'm taking the crystals, too. The dead
crystals.

MATT: You take the dead crystals, and the rest of
them lift up like any other crystals. They're

lighter than you expected. They seem almost frail,
like a volcanic rock in lightness and brittleness,

but more dense. You take those, keep them to
yourself.

You guys look about, and most any pixie furniture
has been destroyed. In searching through, you do

find in some of the homes a number of
well-polished gems. You find two sapphires that

are worth, after looking over them for a bit, in
your experience with gems, about 200 gold apiece.

You find one cracked diamond. It was very well-cut
at one time. As such, what would have been worth

thousands of gold now is maybe close to a thousand
gold at most. It can maybe be repaired or brought

to somebody who can fix it up. It might be worth
more.

You also find what looks to be a really
intricately carved onyx statue of a dog, about

that big. It's really well-carved. Other than
that, most everything else is just inconsequential

decorations that wouldn't be much help to you, as
they were smaller people.

TALIESIN: I say we get to the edge, out of this
forest, and then maybe call it a night.

MARISHA: I'm a bit tapped on my higher-level
energy, but can I maybe take a minute to ritual

cast Greater Restoration on the two new statues of
the lycanthropes?

MATT: Is that a ritual? I don't believe it can be
cast as a ritual, can it?

MARISHA: Greater Restoration? I can't take my time
with it?

MATT: You would have to stay here the night and do
it again.

MARISHA: They'll figure it out.

TRAVIS: The gray ground that's been burned, is it
just...

MATT: Just where the circle was.

TRAVIS: Not everything else?

MATT: No. Just the circle.

TRAVIS: I feel like we just killed FernGully.

LAURA: Yeah, I know. We did kill FernGully.

LIAM: Yeah, but if they had any good in their
heart, why would they be trapping travelers of any kind?

LAURA: They weren't trapping travelers of any
kind, they were trapping the lycans.

TALIESIN: Then they trapped us!

LAURA: Yeah, but then they let us out.

TALIESIN: They didn't really let us out.

SAM: Everyone was bad, including us, and we lived.
That's it.

MATT: You guys begin trekking duskward again,
finally getting to the outskirts of the city. As

you reach the outer perimeter of the forest, you
reach up and you find no barrier there. It has

been dispelled, and you guys step forth into the
field, hearing now as you travel further northward, duskward,

the gentle sounds of rushing water begin to
approach. Garmelie glances past you and goes,

"Well, good news. We've reached the Gilded Run."

TRAVIS: Oh, we're here!

MATT: "Bad news, we've reached the Gilded Run."

LAURA: Let's sleep in the mansion tonight.

MARISHA: I'm pretty tapped out.

SAM: I would love to.

LAURA: But you can't?

SAM: I used my 7th-level spell to kill a pixie.

TRAVIS: Why is reaching the Gilded Run a bad
thing?

MATT: "It's a difficult thing to pass. Those
rivers are quite expedient."

TRAVIS: Like rapids?

MATT: "Yeah."

MARISHA: If we sleep, I can come prepared with
lots of Control Water spells.

SAM: Maybe we can sleep in the treetops, where
Lord Ukurat sleeps.

LAURA: Yeah, let's sleep up in the trees tonight,
before we make our way into this area.

MATT: You guys head back into the Moonbrush. You
ascend up into the canopy and prepare yourselves,

finding an area of branches that can be cleared to
give yourself a comfortable space to stay for the

evening.

LAURA: You realize it's only been an hour since we
slept last, but it's all nighty.

MATT: Well, travel to and from the center of the
forest has taken a few hours, so it's been a while.

TALIESIN: We're tapped. We had a long day.

MARISHA: It wouldn't be that bad if I didn't get
Counterspelled twice. Fucking fairies.

MATT: Hey, man. It's what they do.

TRAVIS: Must've been a cool fight.

MATT: As you guys make yourselves restful and set,
you all begin to fall asleep to the distant sound

of howling as it gets more and more faint. The
sleep takes you to prepare for the next run of

your journey, next week in Indianapolis! We'll see
you guys at GenCon for the next episode as you

guys approach the Gilded Run and the Shademirk
itself, seemingly getting closer to the end of

your journey in the Feywild. We'll see how this
plays out.

TRAVIS: With werewolves in tow.

MATT: A werewolf in tow, that you know of.

TRAVIS: Not the rest of them?

LAURA: No, but Lord Big Badass is going to help
us.

TRAVIS: He's going to steal our shit.

LAURA: He might try to.

SAM: We'll give him Garmelie if we have to.

MARISHA: Yeah, at the break you were talking about
how badly you wanted to kill things.

LAURA: And you didn't get to do any of it!

TRAVIS: I was trying to be diplomatic, all right?
I checked off the box!

MARISHA: You did, you tried.

TRAVIS: Next time, napalm.

MATT: It was an unfortunate circumstance. The
wound above the eye, the lack of decent diplomacy,

their fear of the spread of lycanthropy--

TRAVIS: I even gave willingly.

TALIESIN: You did. You've grown.

MARISHA: It was a good moment for Grog.

LAURA: Hey, we're going to have werewolves
everywhere now, guys. We just let it out.

MARISHA: Yeah, we let the disease spread?

TRAVIS: Not yet we haven't.

MARISHA: You want to be a werewolf so bad. You're
just saying that because you want to be one so bad.

MATT: Thank you so much! We'll see you guys at
GenCon next Saturday at 8pm Eastern, that would be

5pm Pacific time, streaming next Saturday.

LAURA: Thank you, Backblaze!

SAM: No show Thursday!

MATT: Just the Saturday show.

MARISHA: Saturday.

MATT: So guys, have a good night, rest well, and
we'll see you next week.