TALIESIN: Pissblossom.

MATT: Hello, everyone, and welcome to tonight's
episode of Critical Role, where Taliesin jumps the

gun and says his phrase too late.

TRAVIS: Way too late, man! Way too late!

MATT: Welcome. Happy to be back. Very emotional
episode last week. We're going to kick it into the

next step of Vox Machina's adventure this week,
and then, me, Marisha, and Taliesin will be gone

next week, so there will not be progression in
this current storyline. However, Liam O'Brien over

there has been cracking up an awesome one-shot
adventure for our remaining players and a few

guests. Liam, if you want to talk a little about
it?

LIAM: Yeah, I'll tell you who's coming on by.
Sure, I'll say who's coming on by. Mary Elizabeth

McGlynn and Ashly Burch. And I don't want to spoil
it, but Matt knows. It's different.

MATT: Yeah, it's going to be fun. This is Liam's
brainchild, and I'm excited to see them play

through it.

LIAM: It could blow up in my face.

MATT: I think you'll be fine. If the last game was
any indication, I think you'll be fine. All right,

other announcements: once again, we have our
wonderful sponsor with a new theme kicking in.

Sam, you want to take this away?

SAM: Yes, I do, Matt Mercer. Guys: Loot Crate.
Loot Crate has been such a great sponsor all year

long, and we got another great week to share with
you. Speed is this month's theme of the Loot

Crate. I'm going to read this script first. Lace
up your sneakers or rev your engines. September's

all about speed. Feel the adrenaline with some of
pop culture's quickest vehicles and characters.

High-octane assortment of goodies from Batman, the
Flash, the Arrow, the Battlestar Galactica, the

Iron Man, the Gone in the Sixty the Seconds.

(laughter)

SAM: It includes two collectibles, a figure, and
as always, a monthly t-shirt. I'm wearing a

t-shirt. Not from this month, but from last
month.

LAURA: It's got Futurama stuff on it.

SAM: Guys, I'm an actor. Why would you listen to
me about this stuff? I'm a liar and a deceiver.

But what you can listen to, and what you know in
your heart, is hardcore facts. I'm talking

statistics. I'm talking math. I've broken this
down for you guys. If you use the promo-code

CriticalRole, you'll get $3 off your first month.
Doesn't sound like a lot, you think? Oh, that's

1.2 gallons of gas at the Quik Mart down the
street. Regular, unleaded. Or let's say you're

generous. You give Loot Crates to everyone in your
family. That's four Loot Crates; that's $12. That

is 25 and half Forever stamps that you've just
gotten for free. For free! Let's say you're more

generous than that. You give Loot Crates to
everyone in your whole company. All 266 employees.

You've just saved enough money to buy a 2002 Kia
Sedona with 181,000 miles on it. The transmission

is going out, and it doesn't shift in the higher
gears, but it is for $800 on Craigslist. Go look

for it right now, and it will be yours for free,
essentially, if you buy 266 subscriptions to Loot

Crate. 266.67. Okay, that is hardcore facts. You
can't argue with that. Go out. Subscribe now. Save

money. Get stamps and gas.

LIAM: If you don't slow your roll, Loot Crate is
going to poach you.

MATT: All right, thank you, Sam.

SAM: Don't forget to use the promo code
CriticalRole.

MATT: Perfect. (laughs) All right, other
announcements that we have. Let's see. Projects

that have come up. They recently announced and put
up the English cast video for Final Fantasy XV. I

have the pleasure of playing Cor Leonis. It's a
lot of fun. As a longtime Final Fantasy fan, being

a part of this means a great deal, and I'm excited
for the game that comes out in November. So if you

haven't checked out the video, do so and you can
watch me wax poetic briefly about my love of the

series. Look forward to that.

MARISHA: Soundbiting it up in that.

MATT: Yeah, man! They chose my soundbite for the
end of it. I was like (explosion). Felt cool about that.

MARISHA: It's like you're an actor.

MATT: It's like I played a bunch of them. Also,
Deus Ex came out. Mankind Divided. I am scattered

throughout the game with a very harsh Russian,
Eastern European dialect, as many characters,

probably yelling at you or being shot in the face.
So enjoy that, as well.

TRAVIS: I love shooting you in the face.

MATT: Hey, you know? Everyone's got a skillset.
Anybody else have anything they want to announce?

SAM: We're nominated for an award, Matt.

MATT: That's right! We just got nominated for a
Streamy. A Streamy award under gaming. Games. It's

awesome!

SAM: It's our first nomination.

TALIESIN: It's like the Kids' Choice Awards for
adults.

LAURA: But it's not. Fans don't get to vote.

MATT: It is now decided by whatever the Illuminati
Streamy committee is.

SAM: Wait, fans don't get to vote? I'm sure they
can influence things.

MARISHA: Well, they nominated us, so we got this
far because of them, and now we lose to

Markiplier.

MATT: Love you, Mark. We're just excited to be in
that ring. Thank you guys for being so awesome and

supporting us, and hopefully some of us will get
to dress up fancy and show up and go home proud

that we went.

TALIESIN: We'll plug our other friends who
are also nominated.

MATT: And Muzzled the Musical, which I co-created,
which Ashly Burch stars in, who you'll see next

week, that got nominated for best indie.

MARISHA: And Sean Becker. Who's my director for
Signal Boost. All in the fam.

MATT: It's good. Awesome. Anything else you guys
want to talk about?

TRAVIS: Yes! In the world of sportsball, the 2016
future Super Bowl champion Dallas Cowboys are

playing the Seattle Seahawks right now! So if you
see me looking down, it's not because I'm not

paying attention. I'm watching football.

TALIESIN: I have never cared so much about
football in my entire life as I do right now.

Which is saying, I don't necessarily care a lot.
But definitely--

LAURA: More than it was.

TRAVIS: Everybody send Sam a tweet. He's going to
be crying at the outset of his team. Sam, a moment

of silence.

TALIESIN: I think he's lighting the set on fire.

LAURA: Sam walked away so he wouldn't be on the
same set as you were saying that.

MATT: Anyone else have anything they want to talk
about before we jump into the game?

TALIESIN: No announcements until I get back, I
think.

MATT: All righty. That being the case, then let's
go ahead and hop into tonight's episode of

Critical Role.

[dramatic music]

MATT: Hello, and welcome back. So to get you guys
caught up: our band of adventurers, Vox Machina,

in raising an army, hopefully, of allies and
powerful artifacts to face the Chroma Conclave, a

gathering of powerful, dangerous chromatic dragons
that have been tearing through the countryside of

Tal'Dorei and distant Wildemount. They have
recently found some information, had a close call

with the Frigid Doom known as Vorugal. The white
dragon flyover did not pierce through the

illusionary barrier that was placed with the help
of Allura, Gilmore, and Pike, there in Whitestone.

You then decided to go ahead and using that cue,
before the dragon returned to its current roost

that it has created over the ruins of the city of
Draconia, you traveled across to the continent of

Wildemount.

You had a meeting with the Ravenites, a rather
subverted, long-enslaved offshoot species of

dragonborn kin, tailless and now surviving amongst
a recent winter that seems to have come with the

ruin the dragon brought. You also discovered
that most of Draconia and its royal elite have

been slaughtered as a means of the dragon
establishing its dominance and the worship of the

Ravenites that survived the fall of Draconia.

You made a deal with Tooma, the current clan
leader of the remaining Ravenites, that you would

aid in destroying this dragon, basically the
master that they replaced the Draconians with when

it came. However, to ensure your help there was a
two-week time limit, and if you do not return

before then they would see you as not keeping your
end of the deal, and they would then, instead,

direct the dragon towards what was going to be
Whitestone until you altered her memory, which she

recalls now as Emon.

Anyway, before you could be finding your way home,
one of the corpses upon one of the ice spire

spikes outside of the dragon's new nest, Percy saw
to be the remains of your long-traveled friend,

Tiberius Stormwind. The party had a fateful
farewell; set him to rest within the ruins of the

nearby library, fallen from the islands of
Draconia; said your goodbyes; and then, upon

prepping a bit, plotting, and planning, found your
way back to Whitestone to continue the next leg of

your adventure.

And that is where we begin. You have now taken
some time in your own respective rooms. It's still

late afternoon, going into dusk. You all took some
time to yourselves within Castle Whitestone to

take a short rest and ruminate over these recent
events and reveals. The evening sun draws close to

dusk. It is your choice which you wish to do. If
you wish to spend the evening resting here and

then leaving first thing in the morning, that is
up to you.

LIAM: Taking the initiative. This one came to my
room, then inside. I think we've probably been

quiet for a while, staring at the ceiling, and
after a while finally say: We've really fucked

things up, haven't we?

MARISHA: In which particular way do you mean,
aside from all of them?

LIAM: I need to tell you. I know with all that's
happened, between my new patron and my sister

pretending to gag literally every time we attempt
to share a word together, and mostly my own being

fucked up in the head for weeks now, that I've
pushed all of you away. You most of all. Because

I've been afraid you would-- I'm sorry. And you
didn't deserve any of that. Keyleth, I need you to

know, through all of that, everything, nothing has changed 
about how I-- We've had so many near-misses. And now,

finding Tiberius. Death is unavoidable. And it's
all the more reason for life to be lived. And it

doesn't matter to me what this is. What we call
it. If you are willing to spend some time, any

time, with me, then I will simply count myself
lucky to have it. You're very dear to me.

MARISHA: You're talking too much. It's not like
I've made myself very accessible either. It's not

on you. It might be a little on you, but it's on
both of us. Anyway, my point is: for the longest

time, I was terrified that I was going to lose
you. First to death and then to the Raven Queen,

which is still kind of like death, and then ultimately to
yourself. And then I had an interesting talk with

Pike recently, and she said something that really
stood out to me, and that was that some people

just have more of themselves to give. And I
realized this whole time that I was afraid of

losing you to a future that ultimately has not yet
been written, which is stupid.

LIAM: Maybe so.

MARISHA: But you're ultimately right. We have
nothing to lose. I love you, Vax. And I'm sorry

for being me, that it took me this long to say it.

LIAM: (sniffles) I'm sorry.

MARISHA: Yeah. Me, too.

LIAM: I love you. That's pretty fucking great.

MARISHA: That is pretty great, yeah. High five.
Yeah!

LIAM: I tackle her into a bit of a hug into the
bed.

LAURA: Oh!

LIAM: We're already on the bed.

MARISHA: And that's it for now.

SAM: Pan to the fireplace.

TRAVIS: (laughing) Pan to the fireplace!

MATT: All right, so. Vox Machina. Taking your time
to mourn in your own interesting ways. What is

your path of action? What is your course, going
forward?

LIAM: Sleeping in.

MARISHA: Bacon.

LAURA: Yeah, I think we need to spend at least the
night in Whitestone and get up in the morning.

MATT: Okay. So you've all spent the majority of it
in your respective rooms-- most of you in your

respective rooms-- figuring out where you are as a
person and where this story leads you. After an

evening's rest, the next morning comes around,
breakfast is already prepared by the servants in

the castle, though maybe not the amount of bacon
you were hoping, and easily rectified upon

request. It's at your disposal. There is a tension
in the city; the barrier remains up.

As you're having breakfast, you can see Zahra
wander in at the smell of bacon, glances over the

rest of you, still holding a book at her side that
she slams closed. "Oh. I'm glad to see you're all

"right, and you're safe. Please tell me there's
more bacon."

TRAVIS: Not for long.

LAURA: There's more coming, dear.

TRAVIS: What she said.

MATT: She comes and sits down and spends breakfast
with you guys, catching up on what has transpired

and what your current plan of action is.

TALIESIN: Zahra, it occurs to me, you come from a
family with power, connections.

MATT: "Kind of. Let's just say we're estranged at
the moment."

TALIESIN: Well, we're looking for any ally we
could, and we were curious if--

MATT: "You will find no allies where you're
asking. Believe me, I'd be happy to offer if we

"could, but no."

TALIESIN: I had a feeling. It just felt worth
asking.

MATT: "It's all right. I'm going to continue with
my research, since the rest of the ziggurat clan

"are now scattered about or maintaining that
barrier. Guess who has to do the research in the

"meantime?" And she rolls her sleeves up; you can
see the slightly smudged dirt across her reddish

skin. She's been hard at work digging around
trying to figure out what the basis of this

enchantment beneath the city still is.

LAURA: Sorry you can't be out having your fun,
dear.

MATT: "I'm certain time will allow me at some
point. It better. I'm going a little stir-crazy."

She grabs the bacon from the table and walks out
of the room.

TALIESIN: Is Kashaw around by any chance, as
well?

MATT: "I'm sorry, what?"

TALIESIN: Kashaw. Is Kashaw around?

MATT: "I haven't seen him for a couple days. I've
been underground most of the time."

TALIESIN: Yes, of course. We have to send a letter
to the Slayer's Take at some point. That should

happen sooner rather than later.

MARISHA: Trying to wrangle a beast?

TALIESIN: Trying to wrangle a beast or seeing if
they know of anything that's in the vicinity that

we can at least feed to it in the meantime.

LAURA: Maybe we can stop through on our way back.
We are going to Marquet, aren't we?

TALIESIN: I would hope so.

MARISHA: And what's our intent in Marquet? To get
the next Vestige?

TALIESIN: To get to the next Vestige and to
perhaps make some friends. The more the merrier.

LIAM: And the means of travel is?

TALIESIN: We have a sigil. We can teleport.

LAURA: Gilmore. Gilmore's from Marquet.

TALIESIN: This is a teleport sigil. This is not
going to require his attention.

MARISHA: Yeah, it's located in Whitestone Castle,
correct? The teleport sigil?

MATT: It's actually a sigil by memory that he has,
and it's a spell that he casts. It's not a

permanent fixture in the city.

TALIESIN: So we need him, but he can do it.

SAM: Yeah, but he's concentrating on the defensive
wall right now.

LAURA: It's up. As long as the dragon's not here
and attacking.

MATT: It's a renewal feature. He has to spend some
time each day maintaining it. He's not stuck there

the whole time.

SAM: That would be awesome.

TALIESIN: The worst job in Whitestone.

SAM: Before we go to Marquet. Let's say Marquet
takes 13 days.

TALIESIN: That's an awful long time.

SAM: I agree, but let's say it does. Do we know
what we're doing with regards to Draconia when we

come back? Do we have some sort of a plan? We're
getting a beast. That's all we know.

TRAVIS: Yep, we've got it covered. It's planned
out to a T.

LAURA: How are we even going to get a beast?

TALIESIN: Talk to the Slayer's Take and see what
is already on the continent.

SAM: What constitutes a beast? Because me and
Keyleth can make some beasts.

LAURA: I think a large enough beast to attract
Vorugal.

SAM: Like a triceratops?

TALIESIN: No.

MARISHA: They said it hunted something really
intense recently.

LAURA: He said they hunted remorhaz?

MARISHA: Yeah, they went to the ocean.

SAM: What is that?

MATT: Roll an intelligence check.

MARISHA: But I wrote it down.

SAM: For me. Ooh, a 19! Plus two.

MATT: That's what they look like.

LAURA: Oh. Those are big and scary.

SAM: Is it a gargantuan monster?

MATT: They're huge. Most definitely. They're
nasty; they burrow. The actual blood within their

body is heated to such a degree that even to be in
a scuffle with it is to scar yourself with flame

and heat.

SAM: And it was bored with that?

TALIESIN: We want to find a creature that would
threaten a medium-sized city.

MARISHA: So it wants competition.

TALIESIN: We want to wear it down a bit before we
go in for the attack. We want it to be breathing

heavily.

SAM: And how are we going to get this creature
there?

TALIESIN: We're going to find something that's
already on the continent.

LAURA: And Vorugal will go to the creature.

TALIESIN: He will be happy to attack it.

TRAVIS: Can you put it in your necklace?

SAM: On the continent. What continent? The
Draconian continent?

TALIESIN: Yes.

SAM: So we have to go back there to search!

MARISHA: The Slayer's Take should know. They've
got contracts everywhere.

SAM: All right. This is slightly a better plan
than I thought.

MARISHA: We thought about it a little.

TALIESIN: Six people cannot wage a war.

SAM: Then we should go talk to the Slayer's Take
now so they can get started on this hunt.

TALIESIN: We're going to send them a letter.

SAM: A letter?!

TALIESIN: Yes.

SAM: Who's the letter carrier and how's he going
to get out of this city that's protected by an

invisible wall?

TALIESIN: We're going to make Kashaw take the
letter.

LIAM: When we were last there, hadn't they talked
about a brass or bronze dragon? But there are

brass dragons, as you well know.

LAURA: I know, because I'm an expert.

LIAM: Is that overkill? We'd have to convince a
dragon, not capture a dragon.

TALIESIN: It would probably kill the dragon.

MARISHA: Wait, are we talking about capturing
another dragon to fight another dragon?

SAM: No, we're talking about convincing a dragon
to go fight this dragon that would clearly kill it.

TALIESIN: I was going to find Kashaw and see if he
would run the letter to the Slayer's Take and be

our emissary and convince them to do this so that
we're not doing everything ourselves.

SAM: Wait, is there anyone else who can make this
message delivery faster or safer?

TALIESIN: Literally everyone. If we could find a
child in a pub who could take it.

SAM: No, but faster and safer.

TALIESIN: Kashaw is possibly slower than a child.

MARISHA: No more small boys, Percy. No more.

LAURA: We could ask Zahra, but she's busy with
research.

TRAVIS: I think Kashaw is a great people-person.

TALIESIN: Just to get rid of him, they would say
yes.

SAM: All right.

LIAM: He wants to help. He does.

LAURA: Yeah. Let's go find Kashaw.

MATT: You guys head outside of Castle Whitestone.
Not far from the base of the pathway into the

actual city, you can see there is a series of
newer-outfitted guards. They are people being

trained in the force of combat. You can see that
there's definitely a ramping-up of the defense

force for Whitestone as a precaution.

MARISHA: Do they look like townspeople?

MATT: Many of them look able-bodied and people
that are strong and fit, but they do appear to be

civilians that have had to take up the cause just
in case.

MARISHA: Any kids?

MATT: No kids, no. They all look to be at least of
strapping age, to be carrying a weapon.

SAM: Strapping boys?

TALIESIN: Strapping. The strapping age.

LAURA: Did we ever talk to Cassandra or anyone
else about starting an alarm system here?

SAM: Yeah, and they were working on it already,
weren't they?

TALIESIN: No, they started. They are working on it
now.

SAM: I think it's done.
TALIESIN: I'd buy that. Yes, it was proposed.

MARISHA: I do want to maybe talk to Gilmore,
though.

TALIESIN: Well, we're going to have to if we
leave the city, anyway.

MATT: As you are watching the group go through
their different weapon practice moments, they're

breaking off into small sparring groups and
they're going up against ramshackle built

training dummies. There are a few that are doing
forms in succession. (grunts) You know the deal.

You do see on the opposite end that the person who
is currently helming one section of the training

is Kashaw. You can see a bunch of shield and spear
fighters right now, and he's basically giving them

instruction on how to use a shield defensively and
the spear offensively simultaneously.

LAURA: Maybe he's not the best messenger if he's
training our armies.

TALIESIN: This is not an army. This is something
for the population to do while they pass time. The

dragon shows up, they're all going to die, no
matter how many times they learn how to put the

spear forward.

MARISHA: As cynical as Percy is being right now,
he's right.

LAURA: All right.

MARISHA: But it doesn't mean that Kashaw is going
to think that it's any less important, and I'm

sure he might not take it as a compliment if we
ask him to be the messenger boy.

SAM: It's an incredibly important mission!

LAURA: It's not just a messenger, it's defeating a
dragon.

TALIESIN: And it's convincing the Slayer's Take to
join.

SAM: The Slayer's Take, if I recall, doesn't do
things for free. We're going to have to pay for

this, even though we're members.

TALIESIN: We're going to have to bring them some
dragon parts.

LAURA: No, we take a contract on a really large
creature, and then we let the dragon do the work

for us. We get the best of both worlds.

TALIESIN: Ooh, that's very clever.

SAM: We take a contract on an existing creature
that we have to somehow find in Draconia.

TRAVIS: No, we bring the dragon to the creature.

SAM: How?

LAURA: He hunts them. That's what he does.

SAM: Not transcontinentally.

TRAVIS: You can't broker a fight between a huge
beast and a white dragon?

TALIESIN: We could sell tickets.

TRAVIS: I think you've done better.

LIAM: We don't necessarily have to sacrifice a
dragon. We're fighting a war here. They're fuckers.

SAM: No, we're not talking about sacrificing a
dragon. We're talking about finding a beast.

LIAM: Well, I'm talking about a dragon. Couldn't
we try to talk a dragon into helping us do what

we're doing? They're not all evil, are they?
They're not!

MARISHA: Yeah, but do we know of any other dragons
here?

LAURA: Well, then we're going to have to fucking
go to the Slayer's Take.

TRAVIS: Can we go somewhere in the next 60
seconds?

LAURA: This'll be great.

MARISHA: Let's talk to Kashaw. We go up and we
talk to Kashaw.

MATT: As you approach, you see him leaning in with
younger, early twenties-looking men. A bit

scrawny; they're still armored; the helmet looks a
little lopsided. Kashaw's like, "You're not

"supposed to put the shield away. (sighs) Oh,
wonderful. Take five. Take 30. So. You're alive.

"That's great. I'm excited. What can I do for
you?"

TALIESIN: Kashaw, how would you like to be
anywhere else other than here right now?

MATT: "Depends on where and what you'd have me
doing."

TALIESIN: That's exactly the sort of enthusiasm I
was hoping for. We have need of an emissary to the

Slayer's Take. We need to convince them to help us
kill the next dragon.

LAURA: And Vanessa really likes you.

TALIESIN: She does.

MARISHA: We need a big beast on Draconia.

MATT: "So you're saying that I go back to
frozen-ass Vasselheim to deliver a paper message

"to the headmistress, whom already I am so happy to
be away from."

MARISHA: Yeah. See?

MATT: He glances over at the rest of the soldiers.
"Yeah, I'll take it."

(laughter)

LAURA: Thank you.

TALIESIN: We are in your debt. I'll have the paper
drawn up, and anything you can do to put the

weight of the situation behind us and make sure
they know how clear it is and how necessary this

is and how desperate we are.

MATT: "I'll do my best to muster some semblance of
emphasis."

TALIESIN: And we'll figure out ways to make sure
there's money in it for them, or at least dragon parts.

MATT: "All right. Give me a list of what you've
got to offer. I'll bring it to them."

TALIESIN: Excellent.

SAM: What do we got to offer?

LIAM: We don't have the troll dick anymore. That's
gone.

LAURA: We have 40 pounds of dragonhide. Black
dragonhide.

TALIESIN: And white dragonhide.

LAURA: We don't have white dragonhide.

TALIESIN: We have white scales.

TRAVIS: We have 64 pounds of scales from me. We have
four claws left.

SAM: I have a Tome of Leadership worth 30,000
gold.

LAURA: No, that's Keyleth's, remember? In the next
century, when she's still living.

SAM: We'll get it back before 100 years are up.

MARISHA: I'll lend it to them for 100 years.

SAM: A 99-year lease.

TRAVIS: And we got umber hulk pieces, too.

TALIESIN: Mostly, I was thinking of also offering
them whatever we can take from the dragon itself

once it's destroyed.

LIAM: I was about to say, yeah, we put into the
contract that it has the remains of the beast we

take down, which we will take down.

TALIESIN: We keep some scales, we keep some teeth;
we split it.

LIAM: Sure, as a souvenir, right. Yes.

MARISHA: We're basically doing a contract for
free.

LIAM: It's a very large creature.

SAM: That's provided we kill it. If we lose, they
get nothing. I'm just saying, from their

perspective, we're offering them literally
nothing.

MARISHA: If they lose, they don't lose anything
either, right?

LAURA: No, they do. They lose a contract.

MARISHA: But wouldn't the contract just go right
back into cycle?

LAURA: No, if the dragon kills the creature and
then we all die and we can't harvest it, the Slayer's

Take doesn't have anything from its previous
contract.

LIAM: But that could happen with any contract. Any
band of idiots could go die on the battlefield.

MARISHA: They're used to having people die.

LAURA: Well, fuck it.

MARISHA: I think Grog's getting antsy.

TALIESIN: I like this. I'm going to have it drawn
up.

LIAM: I look at Grog and see he's really bored. I
pick up a wooden sword and I hit him as hard as I

can on the small of his back.

TRAVIS: Yes!

MATT: Make a check.

LIAM: It's not going to be that hard.

LAURA: While all this is going on, Grog, you could
be training these soldiers.

LIAM: 17.

TRAVIS: What, train them?

MATT: As you're having this conversation, (whack)
right in the knee cap, a surprisingly painful

and forceful blow. It's less the strength behind
it and more the precision in which it strikes you

right between the kneecap and the rest of the
lower half of your knee.

TRAVIS: Like when a doctor hits you and your knee
jumps?

MATT: Yeah, and you're like (grunts) and you
glance over and you see Vax hide a wooden sword

quickly behind him as he backs away.

LIAM: Come on, big guy! I know you're bored! Come
on! I hit him again.

MATT: Roll a strength check. Actually, this time
it's an attack roll, as well.

MARISHA: Hit him in the nuts.

LIAM: Okay, cool. That's a 20. Oh! But it's with a
stick! Just strength modifier?

MATT: You're not proficient with a sword.

LIAM: Oh dear. I'm going to use Luck. 14.

MATT: (laughs) You whack him. This time, it hits
the meat of his thigh and has no effect.

LIAM: I missed the nut? Ugh. Come on!

TRAVIS: Do you have a death wish?

LIAM: Come on, take a swing! I'm trying to do you
a favor! Come on, get it out!

TRAVIS: What am I missing here?

TALIESIN: I'm seeing this going down. I've walked
away.

LIAM: I see a gauntlet on a table, and I throw it
at his face.

MATT: Okay, roll an attack roll.

LIAM: It's a one!

(laughter)

SAM: I see this going on, and I stand up on
something, and I yell to the students--

MATT: Before this happens, as you're getting up,
you watch as Vax rears back, and as he throws it,

(yelps) he pulls a muscle in his shoulder and it
drops to the ground, and you're like

(pained noises).

LAURA: Seriously?

SAM: I jump up on a chair and I yell to the
students: Instructor Kashaw has instructed us that

this is a drill! You are to attack that man right
there, that large man, as a test of your strength

and training. Now!

LAURA: Don't kill them, Grog!

MATT: Make a persuasion check.

TALIESIN: Oh, this is going to be awful. Wow. That
is cruel.

SAM: 34.

(laughter)

MATT: You watch as roughly 45 armored soldiers all
turn towards you with their shields and spears...

and freeze. They all slowly look towards Scanlan
and whisper among themselves, then look back at

Grog and stay frozen and two creep forward for a
minute. Get a little closer.

TRAVIS: I take the Gauntlets and I smash them
together, and I grow in size.

(laughter)

MATT: As your form swells into your now enlarged
goliath battle-ready form, you notice a few of

them start giving off this rattling metal sound as
their armored knees (clanging) together. Many of

them step back about ten feet, and Kashaw, who
hasn't left entirely, spins around and goes: "The

"gnome's fucking with you. It's fine!" He walks up
to you, Scanlan, pats your arm and goes, "That was

"pretty funny."

SAM: I try.

MATT: "Don't get the people killed. I've been
working on them for four days."

SAM: He wasn't going to kill-- Were you going to
kill them, Grog?

TRAVIS: Yes.

SAM: Oh shit.

TRAVIS: I look at Vax and I go, you were just
playing around, right?

LIAM: Yes.

TRAVIS: And in my giant state, I'm going to kick
him like a soccer ball.

LIAM: I'm going to dodge. Uncanny Dodge, man.

MATT: Well, we'll see. Go ahead and roll an attack
roll.

TRAVIS: That's good. 32.

LIAM: Ooh. No, I didn't miss that.

MATT: Roll a strength check.

LIAM: Wait, I'm going to use another Luck and make
him roll again and pick the lower of the two.

MATT: Okay.

TRAVIS: 15 on the strength check. 25.

LIAM: Got to roll again for the hit.

MATT: Roll again because he used a Luck point to
force you to reroll your attack roll.

TRAVIS: 24.

LIAM: That hits.

MATT: What was the strength roll again?

TRAVIS: The strength was 24.

MATT: Strength check was 24. So as you peek out of
the corner of your eye you hear this (heavy steps)

and as you try and spin and dodge out of the way
instinctually--

LIAM: Uncanny Dodge!

MATT: I know and we'll get to that. Instinctually,
you turn to dodge out of something Grog-sized, not

giant-sized. And in that brief minute that you
remember that he grew, you pause just long enough

to (whack) feel the force of what feels like a
giant battering ram slam into your side, sending

you off your feet and arcing a good 30 feet before
you (impact) tumble and skid to the ground. What's

your strength modifier?

TRAVIS: Seven.

MATT: Seven. You take 14 points of bludgeoning
damage, reduced to half because you're taking

Uncanny Dodge. So only seven points bludgeoning
damage. You stay there for a second, stunned. You

feel a bit of bile and iron taste in the back of
your throat.

LIAM: And in the distance you hear: (strained) I
feel so alive.

(laughter)

TALIESIN: First rule of Fight Club.

TRAVIS: Can I check the Titanstone Knuckles? Have
they changed now that I've kicked a friend in the face?

MATT: (laughing) Make an investigation check.

TRAVIS: Damn it! Eight.

MATT: They appear to have maintained their
composure as gauntlets.

LIAM: There's some blood and five long, dark hairs
on them.

MATT: You watch as a lot of the soldiers who had
been watching this endeavor step even further away

from Grog, and some of them begin walking off,
taking their helmets off. "All right, we're done."

LAURA: Hey bonus, he's on our side. Eh? That's
encouraging.

MATT: They all nod their heads. "Yeah, I know
that. Thank god!" But they're all doing this while

still locking eyes with him. "That's great." And
slowly walk off.

TRAVIS: (chuckles)

LIAM: Vex.

LAURA: Yeah?

LIAM: Help me up.

LAURA: Don't you have wings?

LIAM: Not going to use them right now. Just a
hand. (groans) That's going to bruise. Worth it.

TRAVIS: Thank you. I was getting so bored.

LIAM: (sighs) I know.

TRAVIS: Thanks, bubby.

TALIESIN: What are the chances I would have at
least a basic portable writing desk? They're not

that complicated.

MATT: A portable writing desk?

TALIESIN: 16th century-style. Just something to
write on.

MARISHA: What do you need a writing desk for?

TALIESIN: Just something with paper, pen, and
something to write on.

MATT: You have access to a quill and ink, you have
access to parchment.

LIAM: How about a fucking clipboard?

TALIESIN: It's basically a fucking clipboard.

MATT: You have access to that, yes.

LIAM: Percival de Rolo, Inventor of Clipboard.

TALIESIN: No, it was called a writing desk back
then. It was called a writing desk. There's a

thing. It was that big and you put it on your lap.
It was a writing desk.

MATT: All right. Yes, you have access to that.

SAM: So wait, what is in this letter? What are we
offering them?

MARISHA: Yeah, how's the letter going?

TALIESIN: I'm writing the letter up. I've
basically gotten it together. I've explained the

situation briefly. I assume they're aware of the
war and the current reality.

SAM: And to clarify for me. We're asking them--

TALIESIN: I'm getting there. In this, I'm asking
for their assistance in killing a dragon. For

this assistance, they will get all bounty of
biological remnants of the dragon, with a small

percentage of scales and teeth kept for us. Asking
for 20 percent, but negotiable. We want them to

supply either a local or give some intel into
where we can find a beast large enough for this

dragon to attack. Information that we have on this
dragon so that they actually help us strategize

any ways of defeating it, and any other help that they
could give in defeating this creature. And as a

token of our goodwill, we are sending them a small
package of black and white dragon scales and a

dragon tooth.

LAURA: Yes. And make sure to include that this
must all be completed within 14 days.

SAM: But wait.

TRAVIS and TALIESIN: There's more.

SAM: Asking them to help us kill a dragon?

TALIESIN: For stuff.

SAM: No, but that's not what we're asking them.
We're asking them to find a beast.

LAURA: Yes, that's what he said.

TALIESIN: It's in the letter.

LAURA: That's part of that listening thing,
Scanlan.

SAM: I'm sorry.

LIAM: He did talk for quite a while.

TALIESIN: Is there a way to enchant me so that I
have his voice? And then he'll listen more closely?

MARISHA: Yeah, actually.

MATT: He has a spell for that.

(laughter)

TALIESIN: Don't answer that.

MATT: As you finish penning the letter, you read
over it once, twice, make sure all the

information is contained. You go ahead and grab
the little bit of your offering of dragon scales

and teeth. Present them to Kashaw. He takes the
letter and reads it over. "Sure."

SAM: Should we add an NDA?

TALIESIN: There's a rider at the end of everything
I send.

LAURA: Kashaw. No mention of Whitestone at all.
Anywhere you go. Very important.

TRAVIS: Good addendum. Whatever that word is.

LIAM: Again, please?

LAURA and TALIESIN: No mention of Whitestone.

LAURA: Do we have a way to get him there very
quickly?

MARISHA: What? Kashaw?

MATT: "Are you going to do your tree thing for me?
Otherwise, I can walk, but it'll be a month and a

"half before I get to shore."

MARISHA: Yeah. We're going to be here the rest of
the day, right?

SAM: How will he get back?

MARISHA: Druids. People. Wizards. Sorcerers.

SAM: Wait! We got those rocks.

LAURA: He's a really smart man.

TALIESIN: Oh, the rock. That's a really good
idea.

LAURA: Yeah, but then he'll pop where we are.

TALIESIN: No, we'll leave the rock here.

SAM: We're going to stay here at least a day.

LIAM: Well, you've got friends, don't you?

MATT: "I'm can figure something out."

LAURA: Don't worry about it.

SAM: Steal an airship on your way back.

MATT: (chuckles) "No."

MARISHA: All right. Let's go to the Sun Tree.

MATT: "All right." Gets his shield and his spear
and walks down with Keyleth towards the Sun Tree.

As he's walking down, at your side.

LAURA: Don't you want to walk with them?

LIAM: No. Where is that coming from?

SAM: No, he definitely has a thing for you, Vax. I
have a keen eye for these things.

LIAM: But you can't address it. You just have to
let it be. I'm not going to encourage it. I'm not

interested in him.

TALIESIN: I see it every time. He does. He
smolders.

MATT: As he walks with you down the pathway,
having this conversation. It's that awkward, quiet

about three, four minutes of walking before he
goes. (sniffs) "Ugh. So when all this is over--"

MARISHA: Oh, come on, man. Why are you doing this
to me?

(laughter)

TRAVIS: Hold on, it's going to happen. Let it
happen.

MATT: "If we survive all this dragon business--"

MARISHA: Fuck you, I hate you so much right now.
(laughs) Uh-huh?

MATT: "Do you want to get a drink?"

MARISHA: I love drinks.

MATT: "Good."

MARISHA: So much.

MATT: "Great."

MARISHA: What kind of a drink?

MATT: You guys begin to approach the edge of the
tree. He goes: "I think you answered your own question."

MARISHA: Yeah.

MATT: "Is that a yes?"

MARISHA: Well...

MATT: "Open the damn tree."

MARISHA: Look. You know. It's really complicated
right now, and I'm trying this whole

"allowing myself to feel things" thing.

MATT: "Yeah. It doesn't work out for anybody.
Trust me."

MARISHA: Oh man. I don't know how to respond to
that.

I'll see you on the other side. We'll put a pin on
this one. Bye, Kash. And I cast it through the

tree and I push him in.

MATT: "All right, then. We'll just-- hey!" And you
push him through the tree. Shuts behind him.

You're left there alone, standing in the cold
Whitestone air outside of the Sun Tree. Around

mid-morning.

SAM: Did Kash leave already?

MARISHA: Yeah, he's gone.

SAM: Aw, Vax, you didn't get a chance to say
anything to him. I've talked to him about this. He

has his eyes out on you.

LIAM: I've got enough complications around me as
it is.

SAM: I'm a really good reader of people.

LIAM: It's true.

SAM: The dark eyeliner--

LAURA: So now that that's handled, are we leaving
today?

TALIESIN: Oh, we're leaving today.

SAM: Well, one of us doesn't have any luck left,
so maybe we should spend the night.

LIAM: I've got a little bit of luck. I'm a lucky
guy.

TALIESIN: We'll get our luck back tomorrow.

LAURA: We've got a limited amount of time on
this.

MATT: All right. You guys make your way towards
the building that has recently been essentially

given to and is acting as the abode for Shaun
Gilmore while he's here in Whitestone. As you come

to the front door, the door's closed. You knock.
(knocking) No response.

LIAM: Shaun? Shaun! It's us. Are you home?

MATT: You hear a muffled voice in the distance
within the building go, "Yeah, hold on."

LAURA: Did it sound like anyone we knew?

MATT: It sounded like Gilmore. He's under some
sort of duress.

MARISHA: Sounded like he was under duress?

MATT: Slightly.

LAURA: Is everything okay?

MATT: "Yes. Hold on, please." And you watch as the
barrier flickers for a second and restores itself,

almost like a wave of energy brought what was a
slowly dwindling bit of the blue energy, now

restored to its full strength.

TRAVIS: He's got to use the privy at some point.

SAM: Yeah, he's probably squeezing one out. It's
okay.

MATT: A moment passes before the door opens again
and you see Gilmore there, beads of sweat down the

front of his face. He's got his fuzzy purple-blue
robe wrapped around him. "My sincerest apologies,

"I had to take care of the now morning ritual."

LAURA: How are you holding up, Gilmore?

MATT: "I'm fine. This is child's play compared to
what you're having to deal with on a daily basis,

"I'm sure."

MARISHA: Can I do an insight check?

MATT: Go for it.

MARISHA: 15.

MATT: 15.

LAURA: Oh! You got a whisper on a 15.

SAM: This is an early whisper. A first-hour
whisper is rare.

TALIESIN: It came at such a high speed. I wish it
came so quickly.

LIAM: I wish I knew more about Loot Crate right
now.

SAM: Well, it's not just Loot Crate, Liam. It's
Loot Wear. Those come in a separate bag.

LIAM: Different than Loot Crate?

SAM: Yeah, it's different. You can find out all
about it at lootcrate.com/criticalrole.

LAURA: Actually, the shirt you're wearing, Sam, is
from Loot Wear.

SAM: What? It is? Oh my god! And I'm so handsome.

TALIESIN: Anyway, back to the game.

MATT: "What can I do for you?"

LAURA: Well, we plan to go to Marquet.

Things have progressed much quicker than we
expected it to, and unfortunately we are on a

two-week time crunch before all hell breaks
loose.

MATT: "Well, at the very least, that gives us a
series of days to make the best of the time we

"have. So Marquet it is. All right. Come in." He
closes his robe a little bit and walks in, and you

enter. You can see there's a half-drunken tea set,
and he begins to walk past. "Tea, anyone?"

SAM: I'd like a loose-leaf oolong, please.

MATT: "I'll do what I can."

TALIESIN: How many cups are currently sitting with
the teapot?

MATT: Currently, there is one cup, but as he walks
by, he does this with his fingers and you watch as

multiple cups drift off the shelf and find their
way (cups landing) on the table.

LAURA: How does his house look? Does it look
together like it would normally be, or does it

look disheveled at all?

MATT: It looks a little disheveled, but also it
hasn't been too long since the assassination

attempt on him and he threw his attacker into the
far wall, but it looks like the furniture has been

placed up. There are still some bits and pieces of
broken things here and there, but for the most

part it doesn't look like he's had lot of time to
clean up other than just making it functional. It

seems livable; it's not too bad.

He goes into the kitchen. He comes back out a
moment later with a fresh pot of hot tea and sets it

down. "All right. So this isn't going to send you
to where you're going--"

SAM: We literally know nothing about Marquet.

MATT: "It's hot. It's dry. Bring some water if you
can."

LIAM: You're not able to leave, are you?

MATT: "I should not. Got to keep this going until
Allura comes back."

SAM: Is there anyone that we can say maybe vouches
for us or someone who we are against so that we

can win favor with the locals? Something like a
no-tail, long-tail binary.

LIAM: We walked into a sort of political snafu
because we didn't know the lay of the land, so is

there anything we should know in advance?

MATT: "Best I can tell you, because I haven't been
there since I was very young, one: this going to

"send you not to Ank'Harel itself, it's going to
send you to Shandal, which is a small oasis

"village a little ways south of Ank'Harel. It's
where I grew up."

LIAM: What was that name again?

MATT: "Shandal."

LIAM: Shandal.

MATT: "I will say that it has been about 15 years,
so I don't quite know what to expect there. I

"apologize in advance for any ensuing chaos, but
it's a nice town. It's small, it's sleepy. It's

"not my speed. Hence why I came here. However, in
Marquet, it's mostly music, culture, fun people,

"good food. Don't break the laws. Don't drink the
water freely from the various channels you may

"stumble across. Water there is a commodity. It is
controlled and sold throughout the city."

LIAM: We got a jug.

TRAVIS: We got loads.

MATT: "Those are the main things I can think of. I
don't know what else you're really looking for there."

SAM: Well, I can tell you.

TALIESIN: Cabal's Ruin.

SAM: Thank you.

TALIESIN and MARISHA: The Den of Druja.

MARISHA: Druyah. Drujah?

TALIESIN: Druhah.

MARISHA: Jaja.

TALIESIN: Thanks.

MATT: "I don't know anything about that,
unfortunately, but most folks that have

"information are eager to give what they know with
a little coin to grease the palm."

TALIESIN: Or a little water.

MATT: "Depends on who you're talking to. Anything
else?"

LIAM: No, go ahead.

MATT: He pours tea for everyone else who asked for
it. And for each person that asked for a different

flavor of tea, he begins to snap his fingers and
the tea color changes.

LAURA: We are looking for a merchant warrior.
Outside of you, do you know of any very powerful merchants?

MATT: "There are many."

LAURA: One with a missing eye?

MATT: "That would definitely probably narrow it
down, but none that I can remember off the top of my head."

SAM: Why don't we bring Jarett with us? Is that a
thing?

LAURA: We should talk to him.

SAM: Okay. Shaun, you do so much for us. We do
nothing for you. Is there anything we can bring

back for you or messages to give to someone
there?

LIAM: Is there anyone you haven't seen in all
these years?

MATT: "When you meet them, and you'll know who
they are, tell them I say hello. And actually--"

He thinks to himself for a second. Rushes off.
Comes back with a small backpack made of leather

and thick, light tan wool. He opens it up and
reaches inside. Pulls out a small silver locket

and takes it and puts it in your hand, Vex. He
goes, "Just give that to them."

LAURA: To them?

MATT: He closes the bag and places it back in the
other room.

MARISHA: Shaun, are you doing okay? You look a
little worn out.

MATT: (sighs) "We do what we must."

MARISHA: I could only imagine a barrier of this
size of a construct can be quite taxing on one's

physical energy.

MATT: "Yes. I guess if I had one request of all of
you, this goes universally, can we end this dragon

"business soon? Please? I really just want to set
up shop again."

LIAM: We would like nothing more. I think we're on
the same page.

MATT: "Great."

LAURA: We're very interested to start paying you
for your service again, Gilmore, and stop

expecting it for free.

MATT: "Good. Because I've been keeping a tally. I
don't know about you guys, but the tab is running

"very deep."

LAURA: Oh, believe me. I have, as well. This
locket will take a nice little chunk off of that tally.

MATT: "Fantastic. I love it."

LIAM: Birds of a feather, you two.

SAM: Should we go talk to Jarett and then come
back?

TALIESIN: Let's go talk to Jarett. We'll have
appropriate clothing set up and prepare ourselves

for the trip.

SAM: Robes and things?

MATT: "I'll be here if you need me."

LAURA: Thank you.

SAM: We'll be back in an hour.

MATT: "All right. You don't want the rest of your
tea?"

SAM: Oh. I'll drink it.

LAURA: Do you have any to-go cups? (laughs) Just
kidding.

MATT: "These didn't belong to me, so please, take
them if you want."

(laughter)

MATT: He transitions the tea over into a couple of
cups and hands them off to you guys who haven't

finished. You head out. As you're leaving, you see
Sherri coming up. Her hair's a bit tattered. She's

usually more put together when she runs the shop.
Now she's in casual Sherri mode. Her hair is

frazzled and pulled back. Her glasses are pushed
to the end of her nose, and she's carrying a

bundle of groceries, various bits of produce and
such. "Oh, hello, everyone. I'm bringing Gilmore

"his breakfast."

LIAM: Sherri. We asked him, but he's modest. How's
he doing?

MATT: "Not that he'd tell me anything, but he
doesn't have a very lengthy period of keeping this

"up without him probably collapsing like he did
back in the city. Just please, try to do your best to

"get this over with. I'm worried. At the very
least, until Allura comes back. At least they can

"share the load. All right." She knocks on the door
and opens it. "Gilmore? Gilmore, breakfast." The

door closes behind her.

TRAVIS: Hey, I have an idea.

SAM: Oh boy.

TRAVIS: I know, it's thrilling. We need
eight gallon wine skins or bottles or jugs.

Because the Alchemy Jug can make out eight gallons
of fresh water. We pour it all out and then at the

end of the day it starts over, so we have eight
gallons sitting in the bag.

TALIESIN: In theory, we all have water skins,
don't we?

MARISHA: We should have a spread of our survival
kits.

LIAM: But all the same, that is a very good idea,
Grog.

LAURA: I'm surprised you even know how many eight
gallons is, Grog.

TRAVIS: Yeah, eight gallons.

SAM: But if we had an extra skin or something, we
could trade it. We could give it away, so we

should go get one, yeah?

TRAVIS: Yeah, we could give it away, give it away,
give it away now.

LAURA: Wow. I walk off and look for Jarett.

LIAM: A rift just opened in the universe.

MATT: It doesn't take you long. He is still
stationed as one of the central figures guarding

the actual castle of Whitestone itself. Similar to
the place you saw him last time you guys had a

conversation walking up to the castle. He stands
there with his crossbow at the ready, giving a

long view over the surrounding valley before he
watches you approach. "Friends, you have returned.

"I hope all is well on your end. Can I be of
service?"

LAURA: You can tell us all about where you're
from, actually. Did you leave Marquet a long time ago?

MATT: "It was maybe ten, nine years ago,

"and it was not under the best terms. Probably would be
in jail had I not got away."

LAURA: Oh, really?

MATT: "They are not very forgiving of broken laws
there, and based on certain judgments... let's

"just say a slap on the wrist usually takes the
wrist with it."

LAURA: What did you do?

MATT: (sighs) "Whatever was needed for survival."

LIAM: Well, we're going there, so I'm hoping
either you can give us a lot of tips so we don't

run into problems, or I don't know if anyone can take
your place right now. Do you want to go on a field trip?

MATT: "To Ank'Harel?"

LIAM: Yeah.

MATT: "No!"

(laughter)

MATT: "I'm sorry, I respect this. I think my
strength and skill set is much better used here

"than in the Scarlet Prison beneath the Cerulean
Palace. I do not want to even conjecture spending

"the rest of my life there, or in pieces. Also
possible."

LIAM: Forget it. We need all the knowledge in your
head, in ours.

MARISHA: Yeah, what was that Scarlet Prison you just
mentioned, under the what now?

MATT: "The Cerulean Palace. The Cerulean Palace is
where the Hand of Ord generally keeps most

"justice, where most of the courts are kept. It is
also where the Tower of J'mon Sa Ord is maintained

"for watching over the entire city, and most of
that eastern side of Marquet. The Scarlet Prison

"is where people go to disappear. It is also
referred to as the Scarlet Oubliette. People are

"placed there to go away; people are placed there
to be tortured; people are placed there, rumors

"say, to be part of various experiments.
Regardless, I would highly recommend--" He looks

to you. "Don't steal anything unless you are damn
sure nobody knows of it."

LIAM: I haven't stolen anything in years.

TRAVIS: (coughing) Bullshit.

LAURA: Me neither. (laughs nervously)

MARISHA: I've never stolen anything!

LAURA: Have you heard about the Den of Drujah.
Drujah.

MATT: He closes his eyes a second. "That was... a
very, very--"

LAURA: It's unscrupulous.

TALIESIN: It would have been in a tale of a
one-eyed merchant.

MATT: "Not any merchant I know, but this Den you
speak of, they were a rather serious gang running

"rather violent activities in the city maybe 70, 80
years ago."

TALIESIN: Would they have been in the walls? Is it
possible to be in the walls of Ank'Harel?

MATT: "In the outer walls? The outer walls are
solid. They are thick; they are meant for defense

"only. I did not run with them. I do not know
anything. It was before my time, but they have not

"been around for at the very least 50 years."

LAURA: All right.

SAM: Do you know who rules Ank'Harel now?

MATT: "It is J'mon Sa Ord."

LIAM: What can you tell us about him? Or her, or
it?

MATT: "J'mon? I have not seen J'mon, though I have
heard the stories. J'mon brought the city together

"400 years before. When it began to grow, expand,
when it became this great oasis, long ago, it went

"into chaos, and there were many who wished to
utilize those who lived within the center desert

"to be abused, to be swindled, to be enslaved.

"J'mon started the Hand of Ord, which was the
peacekeepers, and really brought the town of

"Ank'Harel into the grand city it is today. Not
known to appear in public very often; there are many

"rumors that circulate. Some say that perhaps J'mon
is some godling, an entity that has existed long

"before Ank'Harel and will exist long after.

"There is also-- and this is my personal belief--
I think J'mon Sa Ord is many people. I think J'mon

"is more of an office, a station, a title that's
passed on from person to person, because I've

"heard referenced as a girl, I've heard referenced
as a boy."

LAURA: It's like the Man in Black.

LIAM: What story is that?

LAURA: It's this famous tale of the Princess
Bride. Don't worry about it.

SAM: Does the Hand of Ord carry any symbol? Do you
know of any way of identifying them?

MATT: "They carry ornate armor of a deep blue
sapphire color, and brass."

LIAM: Brass.

LAURA: Like the dragon.

SAM: And this other city, Shumble. Humbal.

LAURA and MARISHA: Shandal.

MATT: "Shandal! Yes. (laughs) It's more of a
podunk."

LAURA: A very small town.

MATT: "Comparatively, yes. Ank'Harel is immense.
Shandal is usually a small stop in case camels or

"other horses have died in transit, as well as a
small water stop on the way to the city."

LAURA: Is it a long trek from there to the city?

MATT: "I'd say maybe a day's travel."

SAM: In which direction?

MATT: "It is to the south-southwest of Ank'Harel."

LIAM: On par with Emon, the city? Bigger?
Smaller?

MATT: "Oh, Emon? Comparable. A bit bigger."

LAURA: Wow. Shit.

TALIESIN: We'll make waves.

MARISHA: Yeah. Maybe we shouldn't.

TALIESIN: Well. We're going to have to get
someone's attention.

MARISHA: It's a city that has no water. We
shouldn't make waves.

LAURA: Do you remember, in all your time there,
did you ever deal with-- this is completely

ridiculous-- a merchant who only had one eye?

MATT: "I don't recall. I've met people missing
many limbs and parts of their body. Kind of

"happens; it' a dangerous place, the deserts in
Marquet. But there are also many people that live there."

LIAM: And you're sure we can't talk you into
going? Percy's giving out titles.

TALIESIN: I am absolutely not!

MATT: "I have no interest in titles. I just wish
to stay alive. I'm sorry. I am much more of use to

"you here, I assure you. I would be a perpetually
nervous paranoid wreck if I were to come with you."

LAURA: I can't even imagine you like that.

MATT: "Good. We'll keep it that way."

MARISHA: Jarett, was there still a control of
water going on while you were there?

MATT: "Yes, for many long years, yes. The oasis is
built around."

MARISHA: Is there anything we should know about
that?

MATT: "Well, most of it's controlled in the River
District. A number of canals begin in the River

"District. This is where there is the spring, the
perpetual oasis that fuels the city, and many of

"the caravans that travel to and from."

TRAVIS: Perpetual oasis.

MATT: "Yes."

TRAVIS: Source of power.

(laughter)

SAM: Good note-taking, Grog. How do people greet
each other there in Ank'Harel? Is there a "Kord's

"strength be with you" thing?

MATT: "There is 'be pleased,' with a small bow,
preferably with the hand down towards the stomach,

"with the hand out. Be pleased."

LAURA: Be pleased.

TRAVIS: Beep-bleep.

LIAM: Bleep-bleep, yes. No stealing. Got it.

SAM: Water is valuable.

LAURA: Don't drink the water.

LIAM: Is there anything that's offensive? We don't
want to offend anyone by accident.

MATT: "To be honest, anything you do will offend
somebody in the right place, right time, but

"people are pretty laid back in Ank'Harel, as long
as you follow the rules. It's a beautiful city.

"I'm actually excited for you to see it. I'm very
proud of it, had I not made some mistakes."

LIAM: Can we bring you anything back?

MATT: "You know what? If you can, there is a
special spice that is harvested not far from the

"city. If you could find me some fusaka spice? Bring
me a small-- not a lot, just a bit."

TRAVIS: Is it for food?

MATT: "It's for food, yes."

LIAM: I would love to do that. We'll keep an eye
out.

MATT: "It's a bit pricey. I can give you some--"

ALL: No!

LIAM: No, you've done way too much for us.

TALIESIN and LIAM: Fair trade.

MATT: "All right. Well, I appreciate it."

LAURA: Be pleased.

MATT: (laughs)

LAURA: We'll work on it.

MATT: "Work on it for a bit, maybe watch some
folks. You'll pick it up right quick, just pay

"attention."

SAM: All right, well, shall we--

TALIESIN: Let's go change, and then let's be off.

MATT: "All right, be safe, friends. Look forward
to your return."

LAURA: Keep everyone safe?

MATT: "That is my purpose."

MARISHA: And Jarett, will you keep an eye on Gilmore
for us?

MATT: "Is he all right?"

MARISHA: I think he's just working himself a bit
much.

LIAM: Stretched a little thin.

MATT: "I may have noticed it myself. I will do
this for you. Promise."

MARISHA: Thank you.

MATT: "My pleasure."

SAM: To Marquet?

TRAVIS: To market!

SAM: To buy a fine pig.

MARISHA: To market!

SAM: Home again, home again.

LAURA: I didn't realize Marquet was like Emon.
This might be a bit difficult, to find a one-eyed

merchant in a city bigger than Emon.

TALIESIN: I think that once we arrive, he'll find
us. Or she.

LAURA: This is true.

SAM: We get there, we start poking people in the
eye until someone doesn't flinch, then we'll know

we found them.

TALIESIN: Can I point out that now we have to
learn an entirely new lore? We've worked so hard,

and now spices? Rivers, canals, fusaka! Oh god,
I'd gotten everything together, and now.

LAURA: We've only got two weeks. Fuck.

TALIESIN: It takes a day to do Disneyland.

SAM: Does anyone speak Marquetian, or do they
speak Common there?

TALIESIN: We'll run into a lot of Common. Common
is common for a reason.

SAM: All right, let's go.

MATT: All right, you guys head back to Gilmore's
place?

LAURA: Oh, but are we going to get some water jugs
and shit like that before we leave?

SAM: Sure, we get some water jugs.

MARISHA: Yeah, more water's good.

MATT: You can pick up a few. We'll say for about
five gold pieces here, you can acquire some jugs

that are compact enough that they'll actually fit
within the Bag of Holding, should you place them.

LIAM: Five gold. Mark it off.

(laughter)

TALIESIN: Wow!

SAM: How we doing on potions? We got potions?

LAURA: We need to get some potions.

TRAVIS: There's no stores.

MATT: The healing potions that were available in
the city you guys have already taken.

MARISHA: Yeah, we've tapped them out there.

TALIESIN: Yeah, Whitestone is not functioning.

SAM: All right, we'll get some in Marquet.

TALIESIN: Trade them for water.

TRAVIS: One for each?

TALIESIN: You stabbed her bear while maintaining
eye contact.

LAURA: How many jugs did we get? Five jugs?

MATT: Five jugs.

MARISHA: Slowly. Very slowly. Oh yeah.

LAURA: And we fill up our wineskins with water.

TALIESIN: We're changing out of the winters into
the lighter clothing.

MARISHA: I bust out some of my clothes from the
Fire Ashari. Go lighter.

TALIESIN: It's a shame Kit's very busy, or else we
could get summer clothes.

MATT: She's so busy getting married or something.

TALIESIN: Getting married or something.

LIAM: I break into a cold sweat, thinking about
the desert and this armor. Oh shit.

LAURA: You're going to be a gross, sweaty, greasy
mess.

TALIESIN: Okay, actually there is a solution for
this.

LIAM: Yes, Percival. I have never needed your
intellect more than right now. What is the solution?

TALIESIN: I'm going to find him a white silk and
cotton, linen cloak, very simple, to throw over

his armor the way the Templars used to do, so you
won't cook in your bloody armor.

MARISHA: Does his little sachet--

TALIESIN: Yes, it'll attach to the sachet.

MARISHA: Well, I was going to say, does his sachet
need a re-up of herbs? I thought you

stuffed it with something.

MATT: Percival presents you with a nice, flowing,
light whitish-gray cloak. Ceremonial, within older

Whitestone gatherings. It seems nice; it seems
light.

LIAM: And I can put it over everything else?

LAURA: Over your other cloaks.

LIAM: Cloaks, plural. Fucking 90 episodes later:
cloaks, cloaks, cloaks.

MATT: You can totally place it over your Displacer
Cloak.

TALIESIN: Yeah. It's just a heat sink.

LIAM: Yeah, it's to bounce the heat off.

LAURA: Perfect.

LIAM: Liam knows science. Vax doesn't know shit.

MATT: All right. What's the plan?

SAM: Before we go, quickly, guys. I'm sorry. I
haven't done this yet, so can I try to see where

Kaylie is and do a little scry?

MATT: You close your eyes and concentrate, and you
see, peeking out from the metallic rim of the

sword which you gave her, the Aberration's Bane
longsword, you look up and you can see the edge of

a wooden table. You hear faint music in the
distance; it sounds like some sort of a piano

being played. No accompaniment, just a straight
piano. You hear distant whispers of conversation,

the occasional burst of laughter, and you can see
the edge of Kaylie's elbow, leaning against the

edge of the table. There's a long pause, no
movement. Then all of a sudden, she shifts back

from the table and goes, "That's right, all the
money on the table's mine. Nice try." Scoops down,

throwing her hand of cards on the table. You hear
a couple voices go (groaning). You see her

scoop the coins over and go place them into a coin
bag. "All right, so perhaps another round, then?"

SAM: Yeah! She's doing good!

MATT: "Where are you going? Are you a coward or
something?" Shouting this in the distance, as

apparently the previous people she card sharked
walk off, frustrated and growling. You see one of

them comes up to the edge of the table and goes,
"Best be giving that money back, little girl or you're--"

Before that happens, you see a large, meaty hand
grab the back of his neck and pick up him by the

scruff. You see appear into view the very edge
of Dr. Dranzel's chin and hat and he goes, "I'm

"sorry, were you talking to my lady friend that
way? That's poor manners." And drops him there at

the table.

The guy adjusts himself. "Better not see you guys
in the street." He walks off.

She reaches her hand up, watching the guy leave,
and fist-bumps Dranzel. Your vision fades back and

your consciousness comes back to you.

SAM: She's okay! Okay, good! All right! I feel
good. Let's go!

LIAM: What were you doing?

SAM: I had some bad tikka masala earlier.

LIAM: We haven't even gone to Marquet!

SAM: They don't have Middle Eastern food there, I hope!

TALIESIN: Well...

LIAM: Not going to touch that one.

TRAVIS: Are we going?

LIAM and TALIESIN: Let's go.

MATT: All right. You guys make your way back
towards Gilmore's home. At this point in time, you

come in and find there are a couple of plates,
crumbs to the side. Gilmore's sitting in the chair

with his tea, eyes closed in a meditative stance.
As soon as you enter the room, he jolts back to

momentary awareness. "All right! Gathered your
things? Are you ready to go?"

LIAM: Pretty much.

MATT: "If you don't mind." He grabs the edge of
the central table in the center of the room with

the tea on it. He looks towards you.

TRAVIS: Oh yeah, no problem.

MATT: You guys shift it, move it to the side,
leaving an open space on the ground. He kneels

down and places one hand in the center of the
floor. The other hand he reaches back into a small

pouch on his side and pulls out a small amount of
shimmering, glassy sand material you recognize as

a hint of residuum processed into its dust
crystallized form. He scatters it around while

he's muttering under his breath. As he does, with
his hand in the center, you see the dust pull

together into these small symbols on their own,
almost like magnets to iron filings. They're

forming into these rigid structures. As they do,
they begin to flare up and glow, and he takes a

step back, his eyes still closed, brings his fist
together into a grip. As he does, they light up,

and you recognize this as a teleportation circle.
He goes, "All right, it won't last long. In you go!"

TRAVIS: Running through!

LAURA: Thank you, Gilmore!

MATT: "My pleasure!" is the last thing you hear
before you dive in as it begins to fade. Each of

you guys step into and transition past,
immediately piling up into each other as you come

out the other side, as you're in a dark and
enclosed cupboard or closet-type circumstance.

TALIESIN: I'm reaching for a door handle.

LAURA: Anywhere.

MATT: It looks like there is a set of doors to it.
It's a giant armoire. You guys are pushed into it,

but it is latched over.

LIAM: Ugh, Grog's pec is right in my eye.

LAURA: Can I get a little dagger through and flip
the latch?

MATT: Flick it up. It bursts open, and you all
come stumbling out.

LIAM: I think he stabbed my eye out! Jeez!

MATT: As you all stop, Vex, you look back around.
This is a very large dresser-like armoire. It's

empty. It looks like there are a number of hangers
inside, like it was a place for various outfits to

be kept and stored. On the floor of the wood, you
can see carved into it a small symbol or a

sigil, if you will.

SAM and LAURA: Drink!

MATT: Marked as the symbol he put.

LAURA: Good thing no one destroyed this thing
while he was gone.

MATT: Glancing around, you can see a small dark
wood room atop a wine-red circular carpet in the

center. Empty shelves and cobwebs fill the
corners. There's a bit of dust and sand coating

over where the bed rests against the wall. A
closed window hides behind a drawn curtain, with a

little bit of peeking sunlight making its way
through. There is one single door that sees you

out, though it is currently closed.

TALIESIN: I'm going to stand on the carpet and
will it to fly. Seems worth a shot.

LAURA: Every carpet here.

MATT: Step onto the carpet, close your eyes. How
do you will it?

TALIESIN: I do believe in fairies. I do believe
in fairies. I know it; I've killed several of

them. They're definitely real.

MATT: Moments pass, no effect.

LIAM: I'm going to do my due diligence and make
sure the door's okay. Probably is, but just in case.

TALIESIN: I'm going to look out the window, as
well.

LAURA: I look under the bed.

LIAM: 22. Just to make sure that it's not trapped
or locked.

MATT: The door is locked. It is not trapped.
You're peeking out the window, you said?

TALIESIN: Yeah, I am.

MATT: You glance through the cloth, and it looks
like it is a glass window, but it is partially

opened and looks like there's a little cluster of
sand that's gathered over time underneath the

sill, from what little bit the wind's pushed
through. Glancing out as soon as you push out, the

light is very bright, and you have to take a
moment for your eyes to adjust. Looking out, you

see a simple street. There are some small
buildings built of fine wood; nothing too

extravagant. You can see a number of trees that
protrude from the sand: long, tall, thin, palm

frond-type tops to them, bearing some sort of
large nut-like fruit. You can see what look to be

small troughs of gathered water, whether it be
from rain or them placed there intentionally, but

they're currently locked with some
semi-translucent top and chained shut, on the

outside of two of the buildings. You do see a few
people walking back up and down the street.

General civilians, all dressed in longer,
full-body robes, some of them with scarves around

their neck. I wouldn't say peasants, per se, but
definitely not well-off in their appearance.

Casual civilians. Darker skin, looks like they've
definitely been living in the desert for a long

time. That is what you can see from the window's
point of view.

TALIESIN: Are we on the first floor or second
floor?

MATT: Currently, you're on the first floor.

SAM: Is there a second floor?

MATT: You don't know.

SAM: Are there stairs? Oh, we're in a room. Let's
go out the room. What could happen?

MATT: Looking under the bed, you see what appears
to be a small wooden box that is closed and hidden

toward the very back, and what appears to be a
small series of shirts that have been folded up

and have gathered a lot of dust over the top of
them.

LAURA: Can I reach them?

MATT: Yeah. Pull them out. Really nice,
high-quality silk and cotton based, embroidered

shirts. Look more ceremonial, special event type,
long, maybe knee-length.

MARISHA: What's the decoration like in the room?

MATT: Currently, it's pretty bland. You can see a
couple of colored tapestries similar to the center

of the floor rug that are hanging, but there are a
lot of blank areas. It looks like decorations have

been removed, or at least haven't been there for a
long time. The room, for the most part, seems to

be abandoned.

LAURA: Is the box trapped?

MATT: Make an investigation check.

LAURA: Almost good, and then not. 14.

MATT: 14? It does not appear to be trapped.

LAURA: Can I open it?

MATT: You do. Open it up, glance inside. It looks
to be a series of folded papers.

LAURA: Is it Gilmore's stuff?

LIAM: Yeah, you're going through Shaun's shit.
What are you doing?

LAURA: I'm just seeing if this is his room!

MARISHA: Ooh, whispers.

TRAVIS: Oh shitballs. I have to move.

MARISHA: How are those Cowboys doing, Travis?

TRAVIS: Ten-ten, halftime.

MARISHA: Oh snap.

TALIESIN: Is that a good thing, ten-ten at
halftime?

TRAVIS: No, not good.

TALIESIN: That's not good? Okay.

TRAVIS: Their starting quarterback got hurt.

TALIESIN: I understood all those words
individually.

TRAVIS: Because he's an old woman.

TALIESIN: I know those words, as well.

LIAM: Speaking in Half-Orc. Don't speak that.

TALIESIN: I would pay good money to have you
explain how football works to me.

TRAVIS: That's what I was going with that!

LAURA: Okay. I fold them back up and I put them
under the bed.

LIAM: Can I read your diary, then? Is that all
right?

LAURA: I was seeing if we were in Gilmore's room,
that's all.

LIAM: Yeah?

LAURA: Yeah.

LIAM: All right.

LAURA: Don't act like I'm a dick. I'm not
stealing the letters. I'm putting the shirts back,

all right?

LIAM: I didn't say it! Just maybe he wants a
little privacy. I don't know! Think about it.

MARISHA: She's learned from you well.

LAURA: Is the door open? Can we go out of here?

SAM: Did you find anything good?

LIAM: If 25 opens the door, then it's opened.

MATT: It's easy enough, like butter. (creaking
door) The door opens.

MARISHA: He did say we would meet his family.

MATT: As the door opens up, immediately, your nose
catches the smell of sage and cooked meats. As the

door opens, you look into a large room to your
left with some furniture, not too extravagant, but

nice, and a humble living space. As the door opens
the other way, you look to the right, and you see

two figures sitting at a table, seemingly eating.
An older couple, with dark sun-weathered skin,

graying hair, and bright eyes. They look confused
and slightly scared at their table, staring back

at people wandering into the middle of the room.

TRAVIS: It's okay.

MARISHA: Hi!

TALIESIN: This is a bit awkward.

SAM: We're friends of Gilmore.

LAURA: Shaun.

MATT: They both look at each other.

SAM: Oh, be pleased.

TRAVIS: Bees knees.

MATT: They both look to each other and then
immediately begin, mouths filled with food,

laughing. (laughs) "This is unexpected. Friends of
Shaun's, you say?"

ALL: Yes.

MATT: The man himself stands up and begins to walk
over, wiping the edge of his mouth with a small

piece of cloth, finishing chewing and swallowing
the food he has currently. As he walks up, the man

has thinning white hair that grows long, straight
down towards his back, simple long robe-like dress

with simple cloth pants that go round these
slipper-like shoes on his feet. He approaches.

Which one said Shaun?

SAM: You said Gilmore.

MATT: Gilmore and Shaun. Approaches you, as you,
stepping forward as one of the more, you know,

assertive members of the party, and goes, "How is he? If you
could please tell me?"

LAURA: He's quite well. He's very powerful,
actually, and has wonderful businesses, all

through--

MARISHA: Tal'Dorei?

LAURA: No, I know. It's just not there anymore.

MATT: "Opesa. Opesa, come."

And the woman gets up from the table. "Yes, I'm
sorry. It has been a while since we've had guests

"from so strange and sudden arrivals!" She walks up
and pulls these small glasses out from her pocket

and puts them on. You can see her eyes open up
wide behind them, and she comes, leans to the side

and puts her arm around him. They both hold each
other.

He goes, "I am sorry. Let me introduce. I am Soren
Geddmore. This is Opesa Geddmore. You know our son?"

LIAM: Yes, for quite some time.

MATT: "And you say he does well with his
business?"

LAURA: He does. So well, yes.

TALIESIN: Continental.

MATT: "This is good."

LAURA: Very respected.

LIAM: Yes, and brave.

MATT: "He has always been a brave one."

SAM: Single-handedly protecting a whole city right
now.

MATT: "You don't have to embellish. That's okay.
Would you like to eat with us? We can make more

"food, yes?"

LAURA: Actually, we need to head out pretty
quickly.

TALIESIN: We're sadly on a mission.

LAURA: Can you tell us the direction to
Ank'Harel?

MATT: "You are going to Ank'Harel?"

LAURA: Yes.

MATT: "Yes. Follow me." He takes her by the arm,
and they both walk arm-in-arm, leading you guys to

what looks to be a front door of this abode. As he
pushes it open, revealing more of the street of

this small oasis town, he goes, "Let's see, if you
follow-- that is the sun." He looks up, and you

see his eyes adjust to the brighter sky. "The sun
is there. It will be setting... that direction.

"Continue... what is the word you speak?"

SAM: North, northwest. No, northeast.

MATT: "That is west. You want to north, so go that
way. Yes. That is where you want to go."

LAURA: Thank you.

SAM: Is there a road to follow, or is it just a
direction?

MATT: "I haven't been in many years. As far as I
know, there are signs. There are not roads. There

"are guides you could hire to bring you there."

MARISHA: Can I do like a nature check or take note
of what he said so I remember? Because that was vague.

LAURA: I'm assuming these are the people that
Gilmore said I would know.

MATT: You get the sense these are probably who he
was referring to.

LAURA: Yes, so as she's doing that, I want to pull
out the locket and say, actually, Shaun asked me

to deliver this to you.

MATT: "What--" And he looks to his wife.

The woman steps forward adjusting her glasses.
"Thank you so much!" She holds it and opens it up.

Looks over to him and shows him. You get a bit of
a glance, at that point. You can see it's a

picture of Gilmore. He's happy. Jewel-encrusted
rings. It's almost a promotional still, if there

was one, for Gilmore's Glorious Goods. She takes
it. She closes it and goes, "Gilmore is originally

"Geddmore. He changed his name when he went for
better business to the Tal'Dorei place. Glad he's

"doing well."

TALIESIN: He's respected across the continent.

LIAM: Is there anything we can let him know?

MATT: "Give him our love and tell him he is more
than welcome to visit. It has been many years."

LIAM: We will.

LAURA: Thank you.

MATT: "Not a worry. Safe travels. You're sure you
don't wish to have food?"

LIAM: No, but if you could point us towards
fusaka? Is there any around here? There's not, is there?

MATT: They both look at each other. "I'm not
familiar with this spice you speak of. My apologies."

She's like, "I'm sorry. I do not know this fusaka
you speak of."

LIAM: He's pulling our chain.

SAM: Or maybe it's something illicit.

LAURA and TALIESIN: It's possible.

SAM: Or something that you snort.

LIAM: He's pretty cool.

LAURA: I understand.

TALIESIN: Can we leave them a bit of water?

SAM: Yeah, we should leave them some water.

LAURA: Oh yes.

SAM: Grog! Water boy?

TRAVIS: Yes?

LAURA: Can you give them some water from our jug?

TALIESIN: Where do you keep your personal water?

LAURA: Would you like some water?

TRAVIS: I got it. Here, take this jug of water
with our compliments. You said give them a jug!

TALIESIN: Where do you store your water in the
house?

MATT: "We have, around this way--" He leads you
towards the back of this small kitchen. It's very

condensed. You can see there is a high metal
fence, and there appears to be a rainwater

receptacle there, like a well that is built into
the homestead. It has chains over the top. He

begins to pull keys out and lock to it, and as he
pulls off the chains one by one, he pulls back the

lid, this hard, dry wooden lid, and within it is
a very deep well, though it looks like the water

level's maybe ten feet down from the top of the
well right now.

TRAVIS: You want me to pour the Alchemy Jug in
here? Or just one of the little ones?

TALIESIN: Pour the Alchemy. The little one's for
us today. The Alchemy Jug, this is where it's going.

TRAVIS: All right, I take the Alchemy Jug and I
go: You want to see a trick? Look inside. Do you

see anything?

MATT: "Hey, Opesa, do you see anything?"

And she blinks a bit. "No, it's empty."

TRAVIS: And I say: Now, give it a listen. And I
shake it. What do you hear?

MATT: "Nothing. You are a strange man."

(laughter)

TRAVIS: Forgot they're old. Right, well, it
sounds-- fuck it. Water. And I start pouring.

(laughter)

MATT: How much water does it create?

TRAVIS: It creates eight gallons of fresh water.

MATT: Oh wow. "You are still a very strange man,
but I'm very happy and appreciative."

TRAVIS: I am a great sorcerer.

MATT: "All right. I can see, now. Gilmore has his
work cut out for him."

TRAVIS: Gedd-e-mo-ray.

MATT: He pats your shoulder. "Geddmore, indeed."
As you finish pouring the water out, they lead you

guys back to the front.

LAURA: What time is it here?

MATT: He pulls out a small sundial from his
pocket, holds it up. "It would be closer to late afternoon."

LAURA: No, we aren't going to make it to Ank'Harel
by dark. Yes, of course. That's all. Thank you!

MATT: "Well, thank you so much for coming."

TALIESIN: Good day.

TRAVIS: Beep-beep!

SAM, TALIESIN, and LIAM: Be pleased.

MATT: "Be pleased." And they both, in a very rusty
joints way, give you both a bow as you leave.

LIAM: They were a couple of sweethearts.

SAM: They are adorable! They're both over 70, so
who's going to kill them? Should Grog, or should I?

TALIESIN: I think it's our turn.

LAURA: You broke him!

SAM: You kill one, I'll kill the other.

LIAM: Throwback Thursday.

TALIESIN: This is what a d10 is for. Hold on, one
second.

MARISHA: Do we have any more reason to be here? Or
should we start heading off to Ank'Harel?

TALIESIN: I think we head off to Ank'Harel.

LAURA: Yeah, unless we see any kind of potion
shops here.

MARISHA: I can mist us. I brought it today.

TALIESIN: Oh. We can mist.

LIAM: Is there enough moisture in the air? I have
no idea how it works.

TRAVIS: Shit, if we evaporate, I'll be so pissed.

MARISHA: Wait. Can that happen?

TRAVIS: You don't know!

TALIESIN: I think it'll be fine.

MARISHA: Because we're mist.

TALIESIN: We're mostly water. I think it's our
water. I think we end up very dehydrated at the

end of it.

MARISHA: Sorry, I just spit all over you. I'm
sorry.

TALIESIN: It's okay. Now I'm moister.

MARISHA: That's how mist form works.

TRAVIS: Now I'm moisture.

MARISHA: I don't think we'd evaporate. I think
he's fucking with us. I don't think we'd

evaporate.

LAURA: Let's mist it.

MATT: That would be the saddest TPK ever. "Let's
go, guys!" And so ends the journey of Vox

Machina.

(laughter)

MARISHA: They fade into existence!

LAURA: That would be the worst thing ever.

TALIESIN: Was that a global warming metaphor?

TRAVIS: No songs to be sung. Just fucking another
cloud in the fucking sky.

SAM: Some say you can see them still, overhead.

(laughter)

MARISHA: I don't think we'll evaporate.

LAURA: Let's do it.

SAM: We're going to mist it?

MARISHA: Do we need anything else while we're
here, before I do this?

TALIESIN: It's a one-camel town.

MARISHA: I mist us.

MATT: All right. As you guys take a moment to
concentrate, each one of you transforms into mist.

As you begin to go one by the other, you do hear a
couple of (gasps). You glance over your shoulder

to see three kids, all looking up at you all with
these big, scared smiles.

MARISHA: Before I go, I say: stay in school, kids.
And then I mist.

TALIESIN: I'm going to Slimer the kid.

LAURA: As I turn into mist, I go: I'm melting!
Melting! Oh, what a world!

MATT: Make a deception check.

MARISHA: I was trying to inspire them!

TALIESIN: You're a terrible person!

LAURA: 20.

LIAM: Do they speak Common?

MATT: After you give your presentation, they,
"Whoa!" As you begin transforming, you do that and

they go, (terrified screaming) and go running
indoors.

TALIESIN: I'm still going to slime them on their
way out.

MARISHA: Sliming them!

SAM: We're tormenting children.

LIAM: Hey, that's a step up for us!

MATT: That's what Vox Machina is all about.

TALIESIN: Scarring children for life.

TRAVIS: If you can't kill the old, terrify the
young.

TALIESIN: We're leaving them with a promise that
we'll be back to finish the job.

MATT: You are terrible people. You guys rise into
the air as the sun begins to bring itself to set

in the west. You shift up over the city. You look
down. Probably maybe 150, 200 buildings make up

the entirety of Shandal. It's not a very large
town, but you can see little dots of moving

caravans both to and from the city. It is a fairly
lively stop for people traveling to and from

Ank'Harel.

TALIESIN: We can follow traffic.

MARISHA: Follow traffic.

TALIESIN: There's a traffic line, then.

MATT: Every now and then. As you follow the
direction they're going, you're traveling much

faster than they are. The hot air does feel a
little uncomfortable against your cloud-based

misty forms, but you do not feel like it's
responsible for evaporating any of your form.

MARISHA: Yeah, we're just sweating a little bit
more.

MATT: You're like, "oh this is 
uncomfortable." You continue to press forward as

the sun slowly begins to set. The temperature
begins to get colder and colder, and the sky grows

darker.

MARISHA: Do we condense a little bit? Turn into a
low-lying fog? Never mind.

MATT: If you'd like to. It's up to you entirely.
The form is your choice.

TRAVIS: Could we turn into a marine layer?

MATT: You continue to travel throughout the
night?

SAM: How long does this thing last?

LAURA: Eight hours, right? It lasts eight hours?

SAM: We'll travel eight hours.

TALIESIN: We'll take a late night. Once it wears
off, then we'll camp.

LAURA: Can we get the whole way there?

MARISHA: Wind Walk, you said it was a day's
journey, and we can travel faster by Wind

Walking.

SAM: At night, will we know where northeast is?

LAURA: Yeah, I've got an excellent sense of
direction.

TALIESIN: If it's only a day's travel, at some
point we're going to see the city.

MARISHA: I think we should be able to get there,
right?

LAURA: And we can camp just outside the city,
maybe?

SAM: Okay. Let's do it.

MARISHA: Because we have a flying speed of 300
feet.

MATT: Yes, you guys cruise. You guys push forward
for another four to five hours post-dusk. You're

now hitting the early hours of the morning before
you begin to see in the distance hundreds of

sparking lights begin to appear up above a distant
sand dune. You can see the lit lights, lanterns,

and general glowing night life of a massive city
over the high walls that surround its exterior.

This is a pretty amazing sight for those of you
who have not been to such a large desert

atmosphere, and it is pitch black below you, and
at the height you're traveling-- How high are you

traveling versus the ground? I guess I should
ask.

TALIESIN: 300 feet?

MARISHA: An appropriate cloud height.

SAM: That's thousands.

MARISHA: Hundreds. A couple hundred feet.

MATT: Okay. From this view, you can see a large
queue about eight heavy caravan carts long of

caravans that have camped for the night outside of
the front main gates. You do see, along the line

of the outer wall, there appear to be a number of
small spires that open up like guard tower

parapets that come to a pointed, what looks like a
hand, cradling the outside of each section of the

wall on the outside, but on the inside, you see a
hundred or more of these long, multi-level spires

that progress all throughout the city, and it goes
on and on in its large oval-like shape. It's hard

to make out much color other than the thousand
small lights you see throughout the entire city.

Orange, yellows, greens, blues. It is a beautiful
view. What is your plan?

TALIESIN: I say we camp outside.

LIAM: Are we still clouds, though?

TALIESIN: We're still clouds.

LIAM: Can't talk at all.

LAURA: Should we mist down?

SAM: Are we getting to the end of our eight hours
anyway?

MARISHA: It's been five or six.

LAURA: It's still night?

MATT: Still night, yes.

LAURA: It's good to camp.

MATT: It's two in the morning, at this point.

MARISHA: Does there look like any patch of shrubs
or a low point in the terrain? Cover.

MATT: You can't tell from this height,
unfortunately.

LAURA: We mist down a little bit.

MATT: You scoot down around the outside of the
city walls. The landscape here near the town

appears to be more packed and hardened badland
dust and sand. You can see where lots of it, from

a recent rain, have caked and hardened and then
broken in places. It leaves this soft, shale-type

texture to it that breaks into sand upon crumbling
underfoot. From what you can see, there are a

number of various heights of dunes in the
distance. This city is thrown right in the center

of what appears to be hundreds of miles of desert
from the view that you had as the sun was

setting.

LAURA: And the gates to the city are closed at
night?

MATT: The gates to the city are closed from this
perspective, yes.

LIAM: We did it, you guys. We made it to Burning
Man.

MATT: You guys timed this, I didn't.

LAURA: Can we see guards around? Do they look
aggressive?

MATT: The giant iron gates stand about 65 feet
tall and about as wide from end to end. They have

a very tight weave of iron bars between them, to
where it's almost a very thick fencing that you

can almost see through. You can just see the
outline of things that walk back and forth behind

it. However, on the front side, you can see a
number of guards.

LAURA: We can see your piece of paper on the
screen. Still see it.

MATT: Stop looking at my piece of paper on the
screen!

LIAM: There's a Vestige!

MATT: Not actually. Not anymore, it's not! It's
gone! All right. Amongst the carved-out circle of

caravan carts and people that are camping
overnight before entering the city, you do see

what appear to be a dozen guards, all dressed in
dark blue and dark reddish metallic armor, many

carrying heavy scimitars to their side or long
pikes and shields. They're all wearing intricate

helmets that crest down past the nose to the point
where it looks like they just have eyes and a

lower jaw. It flares out at the bottom and then
curves to a point right across where the clavicle

would be. The armor itself is designed in a very
beautiful ornate fashion, but also looks very

functional. You're at a distance; they don't seem
to have noticed you as you've all crested down

still in your cloud forms.

LAURA: We should probably land far away.

TALIESIN: I'm going to de-mist. There seems to be
a section where people are camping. Let's just,

for once, take this by the book. We want to make
sure they know we're here. No sneaking into the city.

MARISHA: I don't think they'd take kindly to
surprises.

TALIESIN: At worst, we've got the pretense of
being emissaries from Emon looking for help.

MARISHA: Yeah.

LIAM: They punish people for nicking things. I
don't think we want to try to break in.

TALIESIN: No. we're going to try and be truthful
as much as possible, although nobody say the W word.

TRAVIS: Wine?

LAURA: Wine, definitely wine.

MARISHA: I'm assuming that that's the Hand of Ord
that we're looking at.

SAM: The Hand of Ord is supposed to be super
secret.

TALIESIN: It might just be guards.

MATT: The Hand of Ord isn't secret.

MARISHA: No, he said the Hand of Ord is the name
of the peacekeeping guards.

TALIESIN: Yes, that's right.

LAURA: All right!

TALIESIN: Let's camp for the evening.

LAURA: Shall we camp in the mansion, then?

TALIESIN: Yes.

LAURA: So comfortable.

SAM: Sure.

LIAM: We're still a distance though? Where we are,
from the guards?

LAURA: Yeah. We're off a little bit.

MATT: How far are you guys? How far did you decide
to stop and transform? That's up to you.

LIAM: I don't know.

TALIESIN: Where were the other people camping for
the night?

MATT: They're maybe 40 feet from the gates.

TALIESIN: Well, let's camp 40 feet. Let's camp
with them.

TRAVIS: You want to put a magical door 40 feet?

TALIESIN: I'm perfectly okay. It's not like they
can come in. No one can enter who can't be

invited.

LIAM: You want to make a mystical door floating in
the middle of their tents?

LAURA: Do the people seem friendly? Do they seem
tired?

TALIESIN: We're going to camp next to their
campsite.

MATT: Make a perception check

LIAM: In this world, on the ground? I love it. We
haven't done it that much lately.

TALIESIN: We've been too used to being careful.

MARISHA: In the mansion.

LAURA: 22.

MARISHA: So not really camping. We're glamping.

MATT: At a safe distance, you can make out some
detail, and there is some lantern light on top of

some of these carts. It appears that a number of
the folks have set up small tents, and most appear

to be sleeping. There are a few guards that are
set on top of the carts with crossbows resting

over their lap, keeping an eye in case anyone
decides to get too close to their wares throughout

the evening.

LAURA: How about we keep a distance?

MARISHA: Yeah, let's not mist down in the middle
of a group.

LAURA: No, let's keep a distance from them and be
another group of people coming into the city.

TRAVIS: I'd say 200 yards out.

LIAM: Percival said he already un-misted.

MARISHA: We're deciding how far. So 200 yards.

TALIESIN: I can re-mist.

LIAM: We can all do that?

TALIESIN: As long as the eight hours hasn't
passed, we can go in and out as you please, isn't

that correct?

MATT: Yeah. It takes you a minute to transform.

SAM: Should we use our misting while we have it
and mist into the city?

TRAVIS: That's what I said, but they punish crime
so harshly.

SAM: We haven't committed any crime.

LAURA: No, but they have to document who goes in
and out.

SAM: They won't even know--

LIAM: Scan-man, let's start by playing nice,
please.

MARISHA: And if we get caught, they're going to
know we didn't sign in correctly.

TALIESIN: They have giant spires, yeah, and
they're going to say "who are you?" and we're not

going to be on the list.

LIAM: We know nothing about these people or the
customs here.

TRAVIS: Yeah, we've got to learn a little bit
before we kill all of them.

MARISHA: I don't see any trees, and those guards
look heavily funded. That looks like expensive

armor they're all wearing.

TALIESIN: You've got a good eye, yes.

LAURA: Can we have the mansion, Scanlan?

SAM: Sure, yes, we can do the mansion.

TALIESIN: Get close enough to the other group that
they are aware that we exist, but they couldn't

quite make us out, so just another group of
travelers camping for the night.

LIAM: With a door floating in the air.

TALIESIN: It's magic. It's not like they've never
seen it before.

MATT: The light radius beyond the wall itself is
not very strong. It only low-lights maybe a 30- to

40-foot area around the gate itself, and there are
a series of small torches that appear to be

ever-burning on the outside of the wall. There are
a few campfires that have been set up by the

caravans that are waiting amongst the sand and
broken ground there. They give a little more

light. As you guys get to the outskirts of this,
your shapes becoming visible to those that are

keeping watch, you see a few individuals stand up
on their carts with their crossbows at the ready.

Just have a seat and keep an eye bead on those of
you that are visible. Doesn't appear to be any

aggressive action, just an acknowledgement of your
presence and a show of readiness should any

aggressive action be taken.

LIAM: I'm going to not say anything but do the "be
pleased" motion.

LAURA: He already did that.

LIAM: Well, I'm doing it, as well.

LAURA: I'm going to watch you do it.

SAM: So we've un-misted. Are we going to mansion
and go to sleep?

TALIESIN: We're going to mansion. It's 2:00am.
It's time to mansion and go to sleep.

SAM: All right. We'll do that.

MARISHA: Okay, the people who are camping, what do
they look like? Pretty common folk, I'm assuming?

MATT: Best you tell at this distance, the few that
you can see-- because a lot of them appear to be

in small tents encamped-- the few that you do make
out appear to be dressed in a little more wealthy

attire than the people you encountered in Shandal.
You can see the gentlemen and ladies that are

guarding the encampment are dressed in functional
leathers with hints of hide and metal plates

incorporated in the defense, but nothing that
shows overt wealth or overt destitution. General

mercenary guardians for a traveling caravan.

MARISHA: Okay. Are we going to talk to any of
them?

TALIESIN: Unless there's a brazenly loud group
around one of the campfires.

MATT: At this hour? No. You get the sense, looking
at the surroundings of the campfires, it looks

like some sort of party or gathering may have
transpired earlier in the evening, but most

everyone have passed out at this time.

LAURA: The guards are guarding. Anybody that
approaches is a threat.

SAM: Yeah, we'll just go to sleep.

TALIESIN: Goodnight, all. I am ready for bed.

MATT: Scanlan?

SAM: I will make the mansion.

MATT: The doorway glows with a faint purple hue.
In the distance, you see some of the guards step

forward and keep an eye out there. Attention has
been gained by the doorway, but none of them are

approaching immediately. You guys begin to step
into the doorway one by one as three of the guards

begin to slowly walk towards the doorway.

TALIESIN: I'll go last. It'll be fine.

MARISHA: I go in.

LIAM: Scanlan, why don't you hang with Percival? I
go in.

TRAVIS: Yeah, in.

LAURA: I stand in the doorway.

SAM: We going to talk to these people?

TALIESIN: We're going to let them know who we are
and what we're doing. This is just that we have a

very expensive tent.

SAM: Great.

MATT: So with that, Percival, Scanlan, and Vex
wait outside the shimmering doorway to Scanlan's

magnificent mansion. You see the guards begin to
approach. The one at the front, a square-jawed,

intense-looking man who looks to be not enjoying
his current time schedule as a guard on the

outside of the southern gates of Ank'Harel
approaches, hand at the side clutching some sort

of weapon that he has currently sheathed. "May I
ask the business of this strange conjuration

"you've brought at this hour of the night?"

TALIESIN: It is our very expensive tent.

SAM, TALIESIN, and LAURA: Be pleased.

MATT: Make a persuasion check, Percy.

TALIESIN: That'll do. 23. Yeah, 24 actually. 24!

MATT: "I do not know of the nature of this magic
that you bring, but I recommend that you keep it

"outside of the city."

TALIESIN: Oh, yes, of course.

LAURA: Wait, is magic not allowed within the
city?

MATT: "Oh, magic is allowed, but this is unknown
to us, and unknown magic is a dangerous magic."

TALIESIN: I thank you for your advice. We will
heed it well. What is your name, sir?

MATT: "It does not matter. We have 12 crossbows
trained on this doorway, and will for the

"remainder of the evening. Should anything strange
happen, we will not hesitate but to fire."

TALIESIN: The strangest thing you will see this
evening will be us.

MATT: "Good."

LAURA: Thank you for the warning.

MATT: Turns around and walks back to the gate.

TALIESIN: That could not have gone better.

TRAVIS: (singing) We've got to kill everybody.

(laughter)

LAURA: Magic is allowed, but this is strange
magic. How will we know what isn't strange magic?

TALIESIN: Everything we can do is strange magic.
Be prepared that not being from around here is

going to be trouble.

MARISHA: Yeah, I think we're just strange.

LAURA: I hold the door open.

LIAM: We've had old magic, new magic, strange
magic.

MATT: This is all the new schools of magic.

SAM: We go in.

MATT: You guys go in. Mansion's prepared, servants
are at your ready, beds are freshly fluffed.

Damaged kitchens are rearranged to have been not
touched at all.

TRAVIS: What?!

LAURA: Wonderful.

SAM: I love it.

MATT: You are able to rest for the evening as you
prepare for your next day entering the city of

Ank'Harel itself.

TALIESIN: I make my way, quietly in the night, to
Grog's room. I was just kidding, sorry!

TRAVIS: (laughing) I was like, "come get some,
bitch!"

LAURA: No, I want to go to sleep, and I'm holding
on to Fenthras and thinking about everything.

MATT: Mulling over the events that recently
transpired and digesting all the questions you

still have.

TALIESIN: I gave you a lot to think about, didn't
I? Sorry. (laughs)

SAM: I play a card game by myself.

MATT: Okay. As you guys have a restful night,
we're going to take a break. We'll be back here in

a few minutes, and we'll pick this up in the
following morning as they enter the city itself.

See you in a minute!

[break]

MATT: Welcome back, everyone! Returning from the
break, Vox Machina has an evening of rest in

Scanlan's magnificent mansion. You come to
consciousness the following morning, stationed

within the beautiful confines of this magical
mansion, unaware directly of what awaits you on

the other side of the doorway. However, the
morning is yours. What do you wish to do?

LIAM: I'm going to stealth back to my room.

MATT: Okay. (laughs)

LAURA: Oh.

MARISHA: No one sees anything.

MATT: Make a stealth check.

LIAM: No worries. I got a one, but I'll use luck.

MARISHA: You're using a luck?

LIAM: Two ones!

TALIESIN: Two ones!

ALL: (yelling) Yes!

TALIESIN: There is a god, and he hates you!

MARISHA: You are so walk of shaming right now.

(laughter)

MATT: So as the morning comes about, Vex, you go
stretch out of your room, scratching the side of

your head, messed up from sleeping wrong on the
pillow, and as you walk out you hear (clicking)

and look to your right and see your brother
slowly slinking away from Keyleth's room.

LAURA: (retching) I go back in my room.

LIAM: Oh hey, hold on a second, though.

TRAVIS: Oh man. (laughs) Talk it out.

MARISHA: Talk it out right now.

LAURA: I'm about to throw up.

LIAM: No, you make jokes, but I want to go into
your room for a second and talk to you.

TRAVIS: Ew! Make him bathe.

LAURA: Fine. And I go in my room and I sit down on
the opposite side of the room.

LIAM: Take a full minute to get over it, you
fucker.

LAURA: Hold on, it's not been a minute. All
right.

LIAM: You really should have gone into acting. It
really was your calling. Yeah.

LAURA: No, I'm happy for you. As foul as it is.
What are you doing? What?

LIAM: (sighs) Sorry, I'm a little discombobulated.
I've never rolled two ones in a row.

MATT: Yeah, that happened.

LAURA: Oh, that was so amazing.

MATT: Take that, Luck feat!

(laughter)

LIAM: I know this is a really stupid time to talk
about it, but we never get to talk to each other,

and I have a serious question. (nervous laugh)
Relax. In that tree, that guy said a lot of

fucked-up shit to you, and it just sounded like a
lot of fucked-up shit and him trying to make you

feel bad, so fuck him, right? Fuck that guy. But
he said something about a dagger? And I saw your

face fall.

LAURA: (soft laugh) Jesus Christ.

LIAM: And I asked you if you were all right the
other day, and I think you might have not told me

the entire truth. Are you all right?

LAURA: Really?

LIAM: Yeah.

LAURA: Right now?

LIAM: I could be dead tomorrow, Vex. Right now.

LAURA: He knew a lot of things, yes. I don't think
he was completely wrong, and that's what makes me

feel terrible.

LIAM: About what, about you being shitty? Fuck
that guy!

LAURA: Well, he was right about the dagger.

LIAM: I want you to tell me about the dagger. I
want to know about the dagger, but I'm serious,

fuck that guy on the rotten branches he was
growing out of. He's not right. Your strength of

character runs deep. Fuck that guy! It breaks my
heart to see you doubt yourself. You have always

been a wonderful woman! I'm not saying you have to
be a fucking beefcake; you don't have to be a

soldier, but--

LAURA: That's good, because I am really weak.
(laughs)

LIAM: Whatever the case, you are a good person.
All of them know that. They all know that. None of

them doubt it. I don't doubt it. I don't have the
words, I just want you to believe me.

LAURA: Thank you.

LIAM: I'm not eloquent like Percival, but I've
known you a long time. You are a good person.

LAURA: Thank you. It makes me happy to see you
happy.

LIAM: Forgot what it feels like.

LAURA: Yeah, right?

LIAM: What's the dagger?

LAURA: Oh, that. Yeah, I killed a couple people
and I saved Trinket, that's all.

LIAM: When?

MATT: Trinket comes waking up from what was his
sleeping stance.

LIAM: You'll have to be more specific than that.

LAURA: Do you remember when I brought Trinket back
to camp?

LIAM: Originally?

LAURA: Yeah! All those years ago?

LIAM: Yes! I thought it was a terrible idea. I was
dead wrong.

LAURA: (laughs) Well... turns out, I found him in
a camp where I'd been taken.

LIAM: What?

LAURA: Yes, and there was some really dark people
there, and they had harvested--

SAM: (sneezes)

LAURA: Trinket's mother. Bless you. Is Scanlan in
the room?

LIAM: The paintings do all have holes cut in the
eyes, so you can never be sure.

LAURA: I did what I had to do, and I killed them.

LIAM: The people that took you.

LAURA: Yes. I did.

LIAM: The people that took you from me?

LAURA: Yes. And I saved Trinket that night, and
that's what Saundor saw. More than anything I

just... I don't know how he saw it.

LIAM: Are you just creeped out because he knew or
because of what happened? Why are you upset?

LAURA: I'm not.

LIAM: Well, listen. I wasn't there. I don't know
what happened, but... you came back to me, so

whatever happened can't be wrong.

LAURA: Right? (sniffles)

LIAM: Oh, come here! Come here! If somebody took
you from me... I don't know how to see it any

other way than I do. You would have to do
something really terrible, Vex'ahlia, for me to

ever feel disappointment in you, and you have not
ringed that bell. Rung it?

LAURA: Rung it.

LIAM: You studied harder than I did.

LAURA: (laughs)

LIAM: Goodness, please. One more time: You are a
good person, and I've always seen that. Please see

it, please. Oh god, my heart is breaking.

LAURA: No! It's good. We all need to self-reflect
every once in a while. I needed it. My heart is in

the right place. I know it is. I'm just afraid
sometimes actions speak louder than intentions. If

things I was doing could be read the wrong way,
then... maybe I need to change what I do.

LIAM: (sighs) You've always been bold. That's not
a crime. That's all right.

LAURA: It's fine, dear.

LIAM: I feel like a boy again.

LAURA: (laughs) No, please. I'm so happy to see
you happy. Don't worry about me. I'm fine!

LIAM: Well, no, but--

LAURA: And I can talk to Trinket now. We talk all
the time.

LIAM: Vex'ahlia.

LAURA: We've talked through a lot.

LIAM: Vex.

LAURA: Right?

LIAM: Vex.

LAURA: Yes? (laughs)

LIAM: Fuck, I'm just going around-- I love you.

LAURA: I love you.

LIAM: You don't have to talk to me about
everything, but if you want to... if you want to.

Should you need me.

LAURA: "Should you need me."

LIAM: All right. Sorry to babble.

LAURA: Oh, yeah, no. Maybe go take a shower.

LIAM: I'm not going to answer that. I'll see you
at breakfast. And I walk away.

MATT: Yeah, you do. All right, as you all find
breakfast, a fair prepared chicken feast, as

they've been given no other instruction.

(laughter)

TRAVIS: Can't we change it up?

LIAM: I'm afraid not.

SAM: Change up the food?

LAURA: Yeah, maybe something other than chicken.

SAM: Why? It's nutritious. It's delicious.

TRAVIS: Ravioli!

SAM: Ravioli for breakfast? All right.

LAURA: Something with veggies?

SAM: Let's do ravioli. Staff?

MATT: "Yes, Scanlan?"

LAURA: Oh, they speak?

TRAVIS: Shit, they do talk!

SAM: Could you make us some chicken ravioli?

LIAM: You unlocked "Ravioli in Marquet!"

LAURA: They're learning.

TRAVIS: They're smart. We have to kill them all!

TALIESIN: They're going to learn.

MATT: The servants vanish for about ten minutes
and return with a robust meal of bowls and bowls

of chicken ravioli.

TRAVIS: Chicken ravioli. (laughs)

LAURA: Delicious.

SAM: Yummy.

TRAVIS: Good call.

TALIESIN: Adequate.

MATT: Slightly. You finish your meal, feel
yourself satiated as much as you can be with

chicken ravioli for breakfast. You guys exit, find
yourself on the exterior walls of Ank'Harel, the

sun blazing down in the early morning, a hotter
temperature than you've been used to in quite some

time. Would be the equivalent of probably the low
100s Fahrenheit by our standards. All of you with

layers of armor, which is all of you except for
Grog, immediately feel this is going to be

uncomfortable fairly quickly. Grog, you are used
to higher colder climates, even without being

heavily armored, still fairly uncomfortable.

TRAVIS: Sucks.

LIAM: You're really pale, too.

MATT: It's not great. You can see the caravans
that you guys were camping loosely next to are no

longer there. It looks like there have been a
couple of dark spots in the dust and the sand that

have been kicked over where the campsites were,
where the fires were put out, and tracks of where

the carts and wheels have been dragged to and
through the gate. You can now see about ten guards

that are all stationed at the front of that iron
gate on this side of the Ank'Harel wall.

SAM: Well? Should we go in and be traveling people
and kill everyone that we see?

TRAVIS: How about you let me take the lead on
this?

LAURA: How about no?

SAM: What's our angle? We are weary travelers from
Tal'Dorei, seeking--

MARISHA: I thought we were going into this one
with honesty. Thought we agreed to that.

SAM: Seeking help?

MARISHA: We're ambassadors from Emon.

TRAVIS: Keyleth, do you really want to be honest
or is it a ploy? Do we want to be honest?

TALIESIN: The ploy is to be honest.

MARISHA: Our normality is dishonesty, so
technically we're switching it up.

LAURA: This is the ploy.

TALIESIN: This is a radical shift.

MARISHA: We're not honest, so let's try it for
once.

SAM: All right, let's do it. We're from Emon, we
need help fighting dragons.

MARISHA: I feel like that's pretty compelling.

MATT: Grog, make an intelligence check.

TRAVIS: (laughs) Yeah, thank you. Travis needs to
make an intelligence check. Oh Jesus, it's a 12.

Minus two.

MATT: You have no idea what they're talking about.
You find yourself instinctually nodding.

SAM: We'll just go in, big guy. We'll be fine.

LIAM: First chance for violence is all yours.
You're the first one in.

TRAVIS: I'm all in. Violence. That's what I came
away with.

MARISHA: (sighs) We have to be careful with our
word choices with him.

TALIESIN: We head towards the gate.

TRAVIS: (garbled) This ravioli is delicious, by
the way. My compliments to the little purple men.

SAM: They're not men, but yes.

MATT: As you guys approach the outside of the
gate, you can see seven of the guards stay behind

while three, seemingly the same three that had
been keeping a close eye upon your initial

approach in the evening, walk up. The same man
walks up, now looking a little tired; his day is

probably finishing out the rest of his station
here at the gate. Approaches, hand still on the

side of his sheathed weapon. "So you awaken. You
have rested. What is your business here in

"Ank'Harel?"

SAM: We are weary travelers from Emon, and we have
come to seek assistance with the security of our home.

MATT: "What is your contact within the city? Who
do you wish to speak to?"

LIAM: Go for the top?

MARISHA: Oh, that's a really far stretch. The
king.

SAM: We are seeking a man called...

LIAM: J'mon Sa Ord.

SAM: No, I don't think we want to talk to the
king. Do we?

MARISHA: Merchant warrior? No, not that one? Who
the fuck are we trying to see?

SAM: We would like to talk to J'mon Sa Ord or his
or her advisors to seek advice.

MATT: "You come for an audience with the
emperor?"

TALIESIN: We come for an audience with many
people, to be honest. We are looking at many

avenues of possible help. Contacts, trade,
anything that can help us in our time of dire need.

MATT: Make a persuasion check.

SAM: Me or him?

MATT: You.

SAM: Oh. Okay. It was a million.

TALIESIN: I didn't know that that die went that
high.

SAM: 34.

LAURA: It's a million.

MATT: His arm relaxes at the side of his weapon,
and he looks down upon your diminutive gnomish

structure, though glances over at the much larger
goliath and back at you. "If you indeed have

"business with J'mon Sa Ord, then the emperor will
let you in. If you do not, you will be sent out.

"We have no business between either of those
answers. If you wish to enter, do so, but keep

"your weapons sheathed, and keep an eye on that
one."

SAM: The big one?

MATT: "Yes."

LIAM: He's well-behaved.

MATT: "I don't trust his face."

TALIESIN: His face is usually not the trouble.

LIAM: Is it the beard?

MATT: "Very well. Welcome to Ank'Harel. Be
pleased."

ALL: Be pleased.

MATT: He turns around and walks away. His bow is
much smaller than you were originally taught by

Jarett. You get the sense that that's more of a
formality and is on a smaller scale for more

informal conversations. As he walks back, he lifts
one hand and does a loop with it. As he does,

(door thudding). The gates open ever so slightly,
enough to bring through as broad-shouldered an

individual as Grog, as well as the rest of you
easily. You guys walk up and approach.

LAURA: Is anybody looking at Trinket weird, or is
it okay? He's with us.

MATT: Actually, no one seems to bat an eye at the
large bear that's wandering inside.

TRAVIS: But they give a shit about the goliath?
That's fucked up.

TALIESIN: One last question for our good friend at
the gate.

MATT: Okay, as you walk past him.

TALIESIN: One more thing, good sir. If you were
going to find a place to sleep comfortably,

quietly, and without incident for the evening in
the city, is there a place that you would

recommend to a friend?

MATT: "Well, best I can think, there are many fine
establishments of rest where rooms can be rented

"throughout the entirety of the city. Depending on
how much coin you have to give, I would say you

"could..." He thinks for a second as I look at my
notes.

TALIESIN: Where you would put a brother-in-law
that you liked?

LIAM: Medium to high.

MATT: "I would recommend within the Suncut Bazaar,
you would find the Debt's Respite, the Shade, or

"the Corner Cove. All very fine establishments, and
very well watched by the Hand."

TRAVIS: The Hand?

SAM: Are you a member of the Hand?

MATT: "I am. Is this your first time in the city,
then?"

TALIESIN: It is absolutely, yes.

MATT: (laughs)

MARISHA: What was the name of the district?

LAURA: The Suncut Bazaar.

MARISHA: Suncut Bazaar.

MATT: As he watches you guys enter, the gates
closing behind you, you now see the incredible

reveal of the interior of the mystical city
itself. Streets of smooth cobblestone-like red

pebbles lead your eyes to hundreds of visible,
vertically-inclined buildings of reaching peaks

and smooth, pointed rooftops as far as your eye
can see across the cityscape. It's a city of

vibrant color; you see nearly every home,
storefront, and outhouse has some form of draping

silks or painted mural to give it individual
character, standing out against the rest of its

neighboring abodes, creating a calming, beautiful
symphony of really nothing, in the presentation of

it all. The people are walking with purpose, and
the sounds of foreign barking and shouts

occasionally break the air. Welcome to Ank'Harel.

TALIESIN: Let's get arrested right now!

MARISHA: Fight!

MATT: What do you guys wish to do?

SAM: We need spice. We need to find out about this
merchant guy.

TRAVIS: Got to get laid.

SAM: We got to get laid. Every continent, right?
That's our pact.

(laughter)

TRAVIS: There's nothing that doesn't mean it's a
pact.

TALIESIN: We're going to need to talk to some
gentry. We're going to need to talk to a library.

MARISHA: Well, we should probably start with a
tavern.

TALIESIN: And I should also mention, not just a
tavern is available, but we do in fact have three

titled people within our crowd, so we can actually
talk to people of standing and note with very

little difficulty.

LIAM: Are we certain that that will hold any water
on this continent?

TALIESIN: It holds water on every continent. Only
people who are not titled think it doesn't.

SAM: Should we split up into a couple parties? No?
All right.

TALIESIN: Let's find a tavern, find some rooms.
Let's go to this bazaar.

MARISHA: People tend to know things in taverns.

TALIESIN: Get the word out of what we're looking
for.

SAM: To the Suncut Bazaar!

TRAVIS: Wait, what if there's a market, like an
open farmer's market we could get some spice?

LAURA: Yeah. As we look around, do we see any
markets? Actually, the shopping district would be

a wonderful place to look for--

MARISHA: Is that in the Suncut Bazaar, or could we
head that direction while we look?

SAM: Oi! Oi, you there, boy!

(laughter)

MATT: As you glance over, you see walking down the
street what appears to be two teenage boys,

huddled together, wearing drab, ankle-length cloth
robes. One of them has a purple shawl over

their shoulders. The other has a hood up, and
they're both carrying small satchels of fruit in

their arms. They both stop and turn. They look
curiously at the small gnome, the small, pale

gnome in foreign clothes and adorned, beautiful
armor that walks up to them in the street.

SAM: That looks like fine fruit. Where would you
go to go shopping for things here, market-y things?

MATT: (muttered conversation) "You are a very
small man."

SAM: I've heard that. It's a glandular condition.

(laughter)

MATT: "I'm sorry to hear that."

SAM: Yes. My cross to bear. I've seen many
medicine men about it, but they can't cure it, but

many have recommended that I get a diet of
vegetables and fruit. Where could I buy some, just

like the kind that you have?

MATT: "This fruit is actually very difficult to
find and come across. If you wish, you could

"purchase this batch."

SAM: Okay. I've seen this before. I'm not
interested in buying from you. I just want a

market or a bazaar or anything.

MATT: "Bazaar. You are looking for the Suncut
Bazaar?"

SAM: Yeah, that!

MATT: "It is farther down that way. Look to the
blue tower in the center of the city? Walk in its

"direction to the eastern skyline--"

LAURA: I'm not looking in the direction. I'm
keeping my eyes on them the entire time he's

talking.

MATT: Okay, make a perception check.

MARISHA: I'm desperately trying to commit every
direction to memory.

TALIESIN: I am so fearful that he's about to try
and buy meth from children.

LAURA: 20.

MATT: "Look for the strings of crimson flags that
hang across the very street corners. That will

"signify the entrance to the Suncut Bazaar."

SAM: You're so helpful.

MATT: 20. They both seem confused, but also
strangely enamored with this tiny man who's

talking to them. No shifty behavior beyond that.

TRAVIS: Their hands aren't moving into someone's
pockets?

LAURA: No.

SAM: Thank you so much, young men, for your help.
Also, spice?

(laughter)

TRAVIS: Yes! Oh my god!

TALIESIN: No!

SAM: Do you spice?

MARISHA: Do you spice?!

TRAVIS: Yo, you cool? You cool, dog?

MATT: (muttered conversation) "I don't know what
you're talking about."

SAM: I'm not an authority. Do you spice? Spice
it?

MATT: "I am sorry. I'm confused?"

SAM: It's cool. Ignore that part. Thank you so
much. What do you think, a little spice?

MATT: He puts his hand out.

SAM: I flip him a coin.

MATT: He takes it. "Good luck finding your
fruit."

SAM: Okay. Thank you.

MATT: And they both walk away, but at a slow pace,
looking over their shoulder at you the whole way.

SAM: They seemed legit! They seemed like they were
street kids.

TALIESIN: What about that was legit?!

SAM: They're riffraff. They could know what spice
is.

TALIESIN: They were carrying fruit!

SAM: They look normal, but I've got a keen eye for
these things. I was a kid on the street for a long time.

LIAM: Sam? No joke, thanks for the ab workout.

(laughter)

TALIESIN: Oh god.

TRAVIS: Fuck. That was great.

TALIESIN: I can't.

LIAM: (deep sigh)

TRAVIS: Do we go in the direction?

LAURA: We walk towards the Suncut Bazaar, keeping
an eye out.

MATT: All right. As you guys continue deeper into
the city, the sheer size of this town reminds you

of a mirror universe form of Emon, in the way
that the streets narrow and then open, and the

liveliness of culture around you in its heyday,
and it saddens you, because it reminds you of back

when the city was at its prime, when you first
arrived and made it a home for yourself. But at

the same time, the energy is infectious, and you
can't help but feel like there's a lot of

interesting people, culture, and momentum all
about you no matter where you seem to walk across

these streets. Though the culture here appears to
be far older than that of Emon that you've

encountered; even the buildings and constructs
range in ways that-- maybe not as old as

Vasselheim, per se, but at least you can see that
there's some variation to some of the abodes here

that have been worn through time more so than any
you have encountered in Tal'Dorei, for the most

part. These decorated and intricate buildings fill
the streets. You can see pride in their

construction, and the smells of horses and hot
desert air combine with various burning spice and

sage that occasionally wafts through the air to
your nostrils. The ever-changing exotic skyline

occasionally grabs your attention. You see the
distant shadow of what looks like a skyship docked

at a sky port. You get looks of many citizens,
expressions ranging from amusement to mistrust as

you pass by, until you come upon a massive
building that shines with the sunlight.

Above you, you see a number of red flags that hang
and drift, about five feet in length, these thin,

draping pieces of silk that shift with the breeze,
and you can see numbers of these strands across

different roads, and it's at this point that you
look up and realize that this is the entrance to

the Suncut Bazaar. Looking off towards the left,
and what you've been watching as you

approach, there are this cluster of dark blue
and purple towers of various widths marking a

central place in the center of the city. In the
center of them, there is one very large,

cylindrical tower that rises up past them all into
what looks like a chalice or a cup-like platform

at the very top that is impossibly high amongst
the rest of the structures here in the city. It

seems to be a beacon or watchtower over the
entirety of Ank'Harel.

But your attention now, here in the Suncut Bazaar,
as you step around the corner, you can see tents

and storefronts and buildings and voices raised as
different barkers are shouting out for their

wares. You can see carts being drawn through the
streets by horse and camel. You can see what

appear to be dozens upon dozens of people coming
through with small satchels and coming by and

purchasing their necessities for the day. You can
smell cooking meats and food in the distance. You

can see street performers juggling, and distant
music of buskers in the side of the street,

playing various flutes and instruments: some you
recognize, some you do not. You actually see a

shawm. It catches your attention on the side of
the street.

SAM: I need a new reed for that.

MATT: And here you are, amongst the Suncut
Bazaar.

TRAVIS: Can I whip around and see if anyone's
following us?

SAM: Ooh, Dust of Tracelessness.

MATT: Make a perception check.

TRAVIS: Hammer down! 14.

MATT: 14. No matter where you walk, eyes are on
you.

TRAVIS: I am a gorgeous man.

MATT: Most people you come around here, it seems a
largely human population. Beyond that, you've not

seen a single dwarf as you've walked through the
city, but you have seen a number of dark-skinned

halflings, a few half-elves. Not an elf has caught
your eye since you've wandered through. You've

seen a couple of tieflings that walk openly in
this city, which is a rare thing from Emon. Even

there, most tieflings generally are met with
mistrust and prejudice in the street. Here, no one

seems to pay mind or bother. You do see a few
half-orcs, this team of half-orcs that are shouting

out in a language that none of you understand.
Some sort of sales pitch they're giving, and

there's a few people gathered around them. This is
a very wide variety of people that live in this

city, and everyone seems to mesh together without
issue or prejudice, but not one goliath has caught

your eye, and you've caught the eyes of many. And
wherever you walk, you can see the townspeople

stop, and they don't gawk. They don't
stare intently. They're more curious, but no one

appears to be following you.

LAURA: Are the shops here indoors, or are they
outdoor tent markets?

MATT: There are a few that appear to go into
buildings, but the majority of this, as you look

at now the Suncut Bazaar itself, while it is a
section of the city, it is mostly open sky and is

probably hundreds of various tents, carts, pop-up
stand-ups, and even the center of the street,

blankets set out, with the various merchants there
with their wares strewn across the ground, waiting

for anybody to come and approach.

LAURA: Do we see any spice merchants?

MATT: Go ahead and make an investigation check.

LIAM: Also, while she's rolling, do we all see
people eyeballing him?

MATT: Yeah. It's pretty easy to see, and most
everyone's--

TRAVIS: In love? Enamored? Jealous?

LAURA: 11.

MATT: 11. You look around and ask a few people,
and most everyone shrugs their shoulders or points

you in an odd direction, and no immediate spice
merchants catch your attention. You're still on

the outskirts of the Suncut.

MARISHA: Do there appear to be any fruit
merchants?

MATT: There are a few, actually. Yeah. And it's
interesting. In this very hot desert environment,

and you understanding how most plant life exists,
fruit should be pretty damn rare, and what fruit

would make it here seems to be pretty dry and
withered. But everything you come across here is very

plump, beautiful, and fresh.

TALIESIN: Life.

MARISHA and TALIESIN: Needs things to live.

MARISHA: There's not many things, no. Can I go up
to one of the fruit merchants?

MATT: You go up to what appears to be a woman,
probably in her late thirties. Her hair is long

past her shoulders, and these dark black, brunette
waves that spray out like mermaid hair across her

shoulders. As you approach, she eagerly reaches
out. "You look like you are traveling here to

"Ank'Harel in search of beautiful, delicious fruits
of which to whet your palate. Yes? Would you like for

"these fine apples, of which are the finest you
could find?"

MARISHA: Apples? Oh wow. I was looking for
something a little bit more exotic. Something

native to this land.

MATT: "Ah, well--" She takes the apples back.
"What you'd prefer, then, would be the kurrak

"fruit." And she pulls out what looks like a mango,
but the exterior of it is very rough, with these

little spines all around it. "While it is
difficult to hold, crack open for a delightful

"flavor. It is gentle. It is like a sweet water
experience."

MARISHA: That was very descriptive. Thank you.

MATT: "Of course."

MARISHA: How much do I owe you for this?

MATT: "For this, that would be two silver
pieces."

MARISHA: Two silver. And how much, just for future
reference, are the apples?

MATT: "The apples would go for one silver piece
apiece."

MARISHA: One silver apiece. That's pretty steep.
Don't worry about it. Here you go. I give her a

little extra.

MATT: "Thank you so much for your patronage.
Anything else you would like?"

MARISHA: I think I'm good, thank you.

LAURA: I peek around her shoulder. Where would the
Shade be?

MATT: "The Shade? The Shade would be-- it's hard
to explain. Do you see that building over there

"with the dark green steeple?" And you glance off
in the distance. You can see, layers back, there

appears to be one spire, this very harsh point
that has a dark green tint. "That is the roof of

"the Shade. That'd be what you're looking for."

LAURA: Thank you so much.

MATT: "Not a problem."

LIAM: I would like to walk by, and as I'm passing
Vex, I'm going to do that thing where you walk

past a friend and you do that sideways kick in the
butt, and I'm going to go stand by Grog, and

anybody I see giving him the evil eye, I'm going
to match it back.

MATT: Okay. You watch as she walks away, she had
her hands out to Vex, and as soon as Vex keeps

walking away, she goes--

MARISHA: I toss her a gold. She's with me.

MATT: "You are free to shop here any day you
like."

MARISHA: And what was your name?

MATT: She pulls the coin out and pops it away and
says, "I am Shubad."

MARISHA: Shubad?

MATT: "Shubad."

MARISHA: Keyleth.

MATT: "A pleasure to meet you."

MARISHA: A pleasure. Thank you so much.

TRAVIS: Are any of the barkers talking about magic
stuff?

TALIESIN: I'm also looking for a soothsayer.

LIAM: What do you want to see, a show?

TRAVIS: Well, I don't know. It just seems so
exotic.

TALIESIN: Anything out of the ordinary and/or a
soothsayer, card-reader, bones-reader, whatever

they have that's like that.

MATT: Okay. Both of you make investigation checks
as you look around and ask around.

LIAM: And I don't like the way these folks are
looking at big man, so I'm going to stay by him.

MATT: You stay close to Grog.

LAURA: No going up from that. That's what it is.

TRAVIS: Negative two.

(laughter)

SAM: Is that true?

TRAVIS: Yep.

TALIESIN: I am city-blind, apparently.

LAURA: What are you looking for?

TALIESIN: I'm looking for anything out of the
ordinary, but specifically, a soothsayer, a

card-reader, a bones-thrower.

MATT: Grog. Glancing about, you look to see
something shine across the ground. As you rush up

and find it, you find what looks to be a magically
enchanted stone about that big. Rough around the

edges, but the reddish color is brighter red than
the rest of the stones on the ground, and you're

sure that this may be exactly what you were
looking for.

LIAM: I'm watching him.

TRAVIS: I quickly get on my hands and knees, and I
start moving the sand around, looking for one just

like it, just to make sure it's unique.

MATT: There are many red stones around it, as you
press the bit of dust and sand gathered around the

other cobblestones, but this one appears to be
unique.

TRAVIS: Oh! What does it taste like?

MATT: There's a hit of saltiness to the dust that
has gathered in this vicinity.

TRAVIS: I gave away my salt-lick rock!

MATT: You did.

(laughter)

LIAM: I take a moment to marvel at how a being of
such ferocity and power can be such a doofus at

the same time. It's amazing.

SAM: I'm going to plant myself at the end of two
rows of the intersection and wait for people to

walk by. And as they do, I say: Spice? Spice,
spice, spice? You spice it? Spice, spice, spice?

LAURA: Can I have seen Percy looking around?

MATT: Yeah.

LAURA: Can I help him look?

MATT: Percival, what did you roll?

TALIESIN: Where did it go? Investigation? I rolled
a nine.

MATT: Yeah. It's funny. For all the preparation of
being a noble and public speaking, you are utterly lost.

TALIESIN: Oh, I'm terrible in urban areas. I've
learned this. I get flustered.

MATT: The culture is so vastly different from what
you're used to, and the people don't seem to

really pay much mind to your relatively important
outfit and presence, and you're lost at sea.

TALIESIN: I've never rolled a decent investigation
check. It has never happened.

MATT: Vex walks up to you.

LAURA: What are you looking for, dear?

TALIESIN: Beyond anything interesting. Everything
is too interesting.

LAURA: It's very colorful.

TALIESIN: A soothsayer of some kind, perhaps. It
might be a good way to start getting the word out

of the sorts of things we're looking for.

LAURA: What sorts of things?

TALIESIN: We're looking for a cloak. We're looking
for a merchant with one eye.

TRAVIS: I found a rock!

TALIESIN: And we're looking for rocks-- not
anymore, I suppose. And those are usually the most

trustworthy of the untrustworthy people you find
in a city.

LAURA: Investigation? 19.

MATT: 19. The two of you begin to meander around,
look around. You see, after some wandering, what

looks to be a single blanket set out with a small
half-dome shade structure of various cotton cloths

that have been layered and pinned to create this
loose escape from the sunlight. And you see what

appears to be an older man with a very long
braided beard that goes past his belly-button. He

sits there, sleeveless open shirt, baggy pants, no
shoes, and before him a deck of cards that is

laying in a stack, and he has his eyes closed with
his hands resting at the ends of his knees.

LIAM: It sounds like fun.

LAURA: Want to walk up? Yeah?

TALIESIN: You mind blowing a little bit of money
on this?

LAURA: No, actually.

MARISHA: Are we all there?

MATT: Depends on if you guys want to follow.

MARISHA: I'd like to follow.

MATT: Okay. as you guys are approaching, you over
in the corner.

SAM: Spice it? Spice it? Fusaka!

MATT: Make a deception check.

SAM: A billion. Deception?

MATT: Deception, yeah.

SAM: 32.

MATT: This marks your ability to double-talk or
subtly put out the vibes for an individual.

LIAM: Why aren't you a crime kingpin?

MATT: Who knows what Scanlan's ultimate destiny
is?

TALIESIN: I have a song for your next playlist.
I'm so excited.

MATT: After a few moments of you doing this and a
few people walking away, looking frustrated and

taken aback, partially by your visual form and the
unexpected contents of your words, one man in his

early twenties walking up, what looks to be a damp
cloth wrapped loosely around the head to keep the

head cooled under the sun's heat, walks up and
leans in and goes, "You're asking about spice, yes?"

SAM: Yes, hard-to-find spice. I don't know if they
have it in this particular bazaar. It takes a

seller with a keen eye to identify it.

MATT: "Well, I know folks who are purveyors of
many spices here. Please, what do you seek?"

SAM: It's not really something that I want to
discuss out in the open, but we could take a walk

and talk about it.

MATT: "Good, good. Lead on. We'll have a
conversation as we go." As he stands back up after

leaning down for you, you get a little glance at
what appears to be a slightly pointed ear and what

looks like a hint of a mustache that's grown
through. Very similar in visual presentation as to

your comrades: not full elf, not full human,
though definitely a much darker shade due to the

out-in-the-open lifestyle of Ank'Harel. You begin
to walk with this figure through the street. We'll

get to you in just a moment. So as you guys make
your way to the older gentleman sitting on the

ground, eyes closed.

LAURA: We sit down in front of him.

MATT: His eyes are still closed.

LAURA, TALIESIN, and MARISHA: Be pleased.

MATT: "Be pleased." His eyes open, and you can see
his eyes are snow-blind. They are clouded over

with what would probably be terrible cataracts or
something else that has caused him full blindness,

but he stares past you as he opens his eyes. "So
you wish to be read, then?"

LAURA, MARISHA, and TALIESIN: Yes.

MATT: "Five gold for my services."

SAM: (whispers) He won't know what you put in his
hand!

TALIESIN: You're not there.

MARISHA: He will know. He's a fortune teller, for
Christ's sake.

LIAM: Five plumbing washers.

LAURA: Should I put five or 15, for each of us?

TALIESIN: Five, for the moment. He knows there's
three of us.

MATT: He places it into a small side pouch. "What
do you wish to be read for?" He takes the cards

and begins shuffling.

TALIESIN: We search for a garment. We search for a
man.

MATT: His way of shuffling cards is interesting.
As opposed to the usual like double shuffle, he

picks up the deck in one hand and splits it and
then shuffles it together. Turns it around, splits

it, and then shuffles it together on each side.
It's this weird boy with a crystal in Labyrinth,

but with a card deck. It's wild. As he stays
still, looking past all of you.

TALIESIN: And we search for answers towards the
future that we inevitably run to.

MATT: The shuffling stops, and he grabs the deck.
"You search for a garment." And he takes two cards

out and throws them across the center of the
blanket for you guys. You guys step back and take

a look. One of them appears to have a fire or a
camp flame with smoke pouring up out of it, and

the other one appears to have a storm, a torrent
of water, and he goes, "This garment you seek. It

"looks to be in motion, moving. If you seek this
garment here, may haste take you. Your second

"question." What were you saying in the second
one?

TALIESIN: We search for a man.

LAURA: With one eye.

TALIESIN: Well, I didn't say that far.

MARISHA: A merchant warrior. Missing.

TALIESIN: He doesn't need that. He's fine.

MATT: What did you say?

TALIESIN: Oh, we search for a man.

MATT: Pulls up two more cards and throws them, and
they land almost exactly in the same place as the

other two cards that he tossed before. They scoot
to a stop. One card appears to be mostly blank,

except it carries some sort of a stylized symbol
or letter that you don't recognize. And the other

one appears to be a hand of cards stuffed within a
pile of coin. "You seek this man, yet it is not a

"man you seek. To where the luck brings you, the
answers lie." And he puts out his hand.

TALIESIN: Five more. Five more.

MATT: "And the third question?"

LAURA: Can I insight check him as he's reading the
cards? See if his face twitches at all, if it

looks like he's making shit up.

MATT: Go for it.

LAURA: 21?

SAM: Oh, the whispers! So many whispers. How are
the Cowboys doing, Travis?

TRAVIS: I stopped looking.

SAM: I can tell you how they're doing.

LIAM: Sounds like a sad man right there.

TALIESIN: Wait, let's consult the cards. That's
the third question.

TRAVIS: It's pre-season. Nobody playing right
now.

SAM: Oh yeah, sure.

TALIESIN: The cards say the Cowboys are not--

SAM: Hey, maybe you and me should go to a game
sometime.

TRAVIS: I would love to.

LAURA: Okay. And the third question?

TALIESIN: We move towards a conflict. What should
we know? What should we be prepared for?

MATT: Pulls the two cards forward, throws them
down, landing once again almost precisely on the

same space as the last two tosses. They slide to a
stop. One of them shows a chasm cracking in the

earth, and the other appears to show a singular,
sunken skull. "The path is to change historic, but

"many will fall as the transition is to take. Take
your time wisely, for the hourglass runs

"quickly."

LAURA: Goddamn it. Five more gold.

MATT: "Is this all of your questions?"

TALIESIN: That will do, yes.

MATT: He bows his head ever so slowly towards you.
"Then be pleased." And he takes the cards and

shuffles them back into the deck, rights them into
a perfect square with one quick move of his hand,

and places them back in front, puts his hands back
on his knees, and closes his eyes and puts his

head down. There's a pause, and he reaches over
and grabs a small, partially eaten apple and

(chomp).

LAURA: I as quietly as possible put another five
gold in front of him.

MATT: His chewing stops, and he swallows. Reaches
out, patting around it, and finds the gold coins.

Puts it into a pocket. "You ask for one more
question. What do you inquire?" (card shuffling)

LAURA: Did I make the right choice?

MATT: Two cards land across the carpet before you.
One of them shows upon it two hands joining, and

the other one shows a symbol of a sun rising over
a mountain range. He says, "You've made many

"choices, but the one you speak of brings unity and
a new dawn."

LAURA: Be pleased.

MATT: He nods. "Be pleased." Takes the cards up,
shuffles them back into the deck, and sets it

down. He goes back into his meditative trance.

TALIESIN: I feel that was money well spent.

MARISHA: I guess.

LAURA: That was so cool!

TALIESIN: Well, we know we do not necessarily look
for a man, which is important. We know that time

is even more of the essence than we first implied,
and considering that almost every soothsayer I've

ever met is as crooked as the day is long, the
word is now out that we're looking for them.

LAURA: Well, that's the Shade. Should we head that
direction?

TALIESIN: We should.

LAURA: Grog?

TRAVIS: Yeah?

LAURA: Do you want to bring your rock?

TRAVIS: My what?

TALIESIN: We should grab Scanlan.

LIAM: Where is he?

MATT: Scanlan is gone.

LIAM: Well, shit.

MARISHA: We need one of those leashes for him.

LIAM: Shorthalt?

TALIESIN: Let's maintain a certain level of
plausible deniability.

LAURA: Fuck.

MARISHA: I come over the earrings. Scanlan? Just
making sure you're okay, wondering where you are.

No biggie. Just checking in.

MATT: As you're walking with your half-elvish
friend down one of the nearby alleyways, you hear

Keyleth speaking over the earring.

SAM: I say: I'm cool.

TALIESIN: We're going to die. Let's get a room.

TRAVIS: All right.

MATT: So you guys make your way towards the
Shade?

LAURA: Yes. Scanlan, we're heading towards the
Shade. It's the big green tent. Follow?

SAM: (clicks tongue) Yeah.

MATT: Your half-elven compadre goes, "Are you all
right?"

SAM: I'm cool. I'm cool on these desert nights,
and I need something to warm me up at night, so

that's why I was inquiring about this spice.

MATT: "Please, which spice are you seeking?"

SAM: It might not be entirely legal, but fusaka?

MATT: He nods. "It may take a bit of time. I know
someone who could bring this, but I could not

"bring you to them. They'd have to bring it to
you."

SAM: Where can we meet?

MATT: "Well, where are you staying?"

SAM: I'm staying outside of the walls in a small
encampment, but I can meet him sometime tonight

inside the walls.

MATT: "Where would you need to meet?"

SAM: How about where we first met, at that same
intersection, or is that too busy?

MATT: "That is far too busy. It needs to be
private, away."

SAM: I'm sort of a visitor here.

MATT: "If you want a place to stay, there is
Luck's Run, the casino. There are back rooms there."

SAM: There's a casino?

MATT: "Yes."

SAM: Hells yes.

MATT: "There is the Debt's Respite Inn, which has
its own grasp of lowlifes. Those are probably the

"best bets."

SAM: Let's meet in a room at the casino.

MATT: "The casino it is. Which room?"

SAM: The red room? I'm not familiar with this
casino. I'll need some guidance.

MATT: "Wear a red shirt. He will find you in the
casino."

SAM: Okay. That sounds good.

MATT: "All right. Hour past sundown, we'll find
you there."

SAM: Tonight? What time?

MATT: "An hour past sundown."

SAM: Oh, sorry. I was thinking about the casino.
Sorry.

MATT: "How much do you want?"

SAM: Oh my god. I'm not prepared for this!

MATT: He starts looking a little untrusting.

TRAVIS: Be cool, man. Be cool.

SAM: Enough to get me through a week of heavy use.
I want to go on a bender.

MATT: Make a deception check.

SAM: A billion. More than before. 35.

TALIESIN: How are you rolling that?

MATT: He gives you a look and bends down.

SAM: I've had a rough few weeks, and I need to get
away from it all and go to that place--

MATT: He gets close to your face, interrupts you,
and goes, "I mean this with all due respect:

"Being as small a man as you are, you have to be
careful."

SAM: Don't tell me what to do. I can take it, all
right?

(laughter)

SAM: Let's just say that when I started using, I
was your height.

(laughter)

MATT: He backs off, hands up. He goes, "Very well.
The amount you ask, I have no specific amount. I'd

"have to inquire, but I would say, to be safe,
bring about 200 gold pieces with you. Just in case."

SAM: It'll be pure, not cut with anything else? I
want the good stuff.

MATT: He looks at you, confused.

SAM: Am I buying cinnamon here?

MARISHA: Might be.

TALIESIN: It's going to be a living baby.

SAM: It's going to be a pound of turmeric!

LIAM: Cardamom.

SAM: Yes. We have a deal. Let's shake on it.

MATT: He reaches out and takes your hand, and you
shake. "Very well. Hour after sundown. Casino." He

brings his cloth up and brings it up over his face
for a second and darts into one of the nearby

corners and vanishes.

SAM: Where did you guys go? Hello?

LAURA: We're at the Shade!

SAM: Okay! I'm coming! Where is that? Shit, where
am I? I ask around for the Shade.

MATT: You eventually find it.

MARISHA: Scanlan, stop panicking. I can hear you
hyperventilating.

SAM: I'm sorry, I've just never done anything that
cool before!

TALIESIN: And you still haven't.

LIAM: The hell you haven't!

SAM: I just did a drug deal, guys!

MARISHA: Scanlan, not over the speakers! Not over
the phone line!

LAURA: You have drugs with you?

SAM: No! I'll tell you later!

TALIESIN: These earrings are tapped. You know
that.

SAM: They could be listening! I'm coming to you!

LIAM: Pike hears everything.

(laughter)

MATT: You guys find your way to the Shade, and
it's a large, circular sandstone wall that has a

pointed tent roof above it held by a singular pole
in the center. It is segmented into various rooms

that have no ceiling, so everyone shares the same
roof. This is what appears to be a lounge tavern,

meaning there are drinks and wine served, but each
room seems to have a carpeted and pillowed floor.

Looks like there are beaded curtains and various
draperies that separate each of the different

rooms, and there's large, hookah-type tobacco
pipes. It's very much just a relaxing lounge area.

TALIESIN: There's hookah.

MARISHA: There's hookah!

TALIESIN: I've never tried hookah before.

MARISHA: You've never tried hookah?

TALIESIN: No.

MARISHA: The Earth Ashari are super into the
hookah. It's really nice, yeah.

TALIESIN: This is the only thing I actually know
about this continent, is that there's tobacco.

MARISHA: We should try it!

LAURA: Did Scanlan get here yet?

MATT: Scanlan takes about five minutes or so, but
eventually catches up to you guys.

LAURA: Are we staying here? It's not very
private.

TALIESIN: It's not very private, and privacy is
definitely higher on the list.

LAURA: Can I find a patron that seems chill?

MATT: Yeah. You look around. You can see what
looks to be a matronly older woman wearing some

nicer dark purple and black clothing, who is
sitting there with one big hookah next to her

side, by herself, with a glass of wine to one of
the sides, and is staring into space.

TALIESIN: I can literally only see my mother when
you describe this image, by the way.

(laughter)

TALIESIN: And only you and you know how funny that
is, because it's sealed in there.

LAURA: I walk up. Be pleased.

MATT: "Be pleased. Can I help you?"

LAURA: Actually, just a small trifle. Are you
staying here?

MATT: "Over the next few hours,
yes."

LAURA: Lovely. We're from out of town--

MATT: "You don't say."

LAURA: Yes, and I've noticed the Shade is rather
open. Do you know if the Corner Cove or Debt's

Respite are quite as private as this, or do they
have actual rooms?

MATT: "Both of those have rooms, yes."

LAURA: Oh. Lovely.

MATT: "Do you have any other specifics or
requirements?"

LAURA: Are they far from here?

MATT: "Corner Cove is maybe two miles that way,
but the Debt's Respite is about a mile that way."

LAURA: Thank you. Sorry to bother you.

TALIESIN: Should we put some cards on the table?

LAURA: Some cards?

MARISHA: I thought that's what we just did with
that other guy.

TALIESIN: We've been searching for a friend of
ours, and it's been very complicated. She's got

one eye. She's been around for quite a while.

LAURA: She's a merchant in town. We've been
looking for her.

MATT: "There are many merchants that live here."

TALIESIN: Are there many merchants with one eye?

LAURA: She's quite strong, actually.

MARISHA: Some call her a warrior merchant.

MATT: "Warrior? If you're looking for warrior
merchants, you're probably looking for the

"Scarbearers."

TALIESIN: Yes, that sounds about right.

LAURA: Yeah, she is a Scarbearer. Are they around
here?

MATT: "Well, this definitely narrows down your
search. The Debt's Respite is where you'll want to

"go. It's actually run by one of the heads of their
ilk."

MARISHA: Ilk?

TALIESIN: Not an animal.

MATT: "Scarbearers. They're a bit of a
rough-and-tumble lot."

LAURA: Oh, are they?

MATT: "They hunt for coin, sell what else they
find. Odd jobs. Some of them maybe not the most up

"and legal, but they work with a guarantee, and the
head of their troop I think runs, or at least

"partially owns, the Debt's Respite."

TALIESIN: Thank you. What are you smoking at the
moment, by the way?

MARISHA: I was just about to ask her the same
thing!

MATT: "This? I don't know." Raises her hand, and
one of the various workers there approaches with

another bottle of wine.

"Yes, may I help?"

"What is this you put in here?" Blows it in her
face.

"That would be a Dusk Blossom Sage." Walks away.

"Dusk Blossom Sage."

TALIESIN: It's very fragrant.

MATT: "Pungent would be the world you're looking
for."

LIAM: I walk over to Keyleth and say: I've done
this, but I don't think I knew what I was doing.

Your people do this?

MARISHA: Well, the Earth Ashari do, and the Fire
Ashari sometimes.

LIAM: You've done this.

MARISHA: Yeah. I stayed with the Earth Ashari for
a few months. You want to try? It's fun. It's very

nice. It relaxes you. Oh, come on guys! We've got
time!

LAURA: Do we?

MARISHA: We never take time for ourselves. Come
on!

LAURA: We've got a ticking time bomb!

MARISHA: Just 15 minutes!

TALIESIN: The cards said our luck. Perhaps this
is a good way to ignite it.

MARISHA: 15 minutes. Please, Vex, pretty please!

TALIESIN: We are still waiting for Scanlan to get
here, and then we'll take him to the next stop.

MATT: Scanlan, by the way, is right behind you.

SAM: Hi!

MARISHA: Scanlan!

SAM: Sorry. Didn't mean to sneak up on you.

LIAM: Now we really need to do it.

LAURA: We do need to talk to him, actually. Do you
mind if we join you? I motion to the waitress.

Could we have some more Dusk Sage?

TRAVIS: Something stronger.

MATT: You see her eyes roll. "I mean no offense,
but this is my 'me' time."

LAURA: Oh, of course!

MARISHA: Let's get our own! We'll get our own
little booth.

TALIESIN: I'm going to put a gold coin on her
tray. So you can keep smoking, and thank you for

the time spent in our company.

MATT: She takes the coin, flicks it back to you
and goes, "I appreciate, but do not require your

"patronage."

TALIESIN: I'm grateful for your time.

SAM: Yeah. I like her.

TALIESIN: Thanks, mom. It is burned into my head.

TRAVIS: Getting our own?

LAURA: Yeah, we go get our own.

MATT: You guys are brought into one of the small
sections of the Shade. You are given your choice

of various tobaccos. While it's not a large room,
per se, you can all comfortably lounge in there.

It's a nice place to get away. You can hear the
distant sounds of the city, but for the most part,

there's a soft violin music that plays towards the
center of the area, so at least it has a nice

atmosphere to it.

TRAVIS: As we're in there, do we notice anyone
with any large scars walking around?

MATT: Make a perception check.

TRAVIS: This'll go great. 12.

MATT: You see people with small, large scars.
People with scars all over. Life out here can be a

little tough at times, but no more scarred than
most of the people you've encountered in your

lifetime. And definitely nowhere near as scarred
as the people you've run with for half of your

lifetime.

TRAVIS: There are no really large, scarred people
in here.

LAURA: Good to know. Thank you, Grog.

TALIESIN and LAURA: Good to know.

LIAM: Hey, can I see that ruby you found before?

TRAVIS: I have no ruby.

LIAM: You'd hold out on me?

TRAVIS: Nope. There was no ruby.

LIAM: Why are you lying to me, Grog?

TRAVIS: Look, Little Teeny is my friend. All
right? He spoke to me out of the deserts of fate,

and he is mine and mine alone.

LIAM: All right.

LAURA: Scanlan.

SAM: Oi.

LAURA: Spice dealer?

MARISHA: Yes, I want to hear this story.

SAM: I made contact. I'm supposed to meet up
tonight in the casino one hour after sunset. I'm

supposed to wear red. I will not lie, I am
shitting myself, I'm so nervous.

LAURA: Are you going to wear red?

SAM: Well, how else will they discern who I am? I
don't want to go alone.

LAURA: Well, I'll go with you.

SAM: Are you cool?

LAURA: Of course I'm cool. I'm so cool, darling.

SAM: Okay.

TALIESIN: I'm cool!

MARISHA: Me, too!

SAM: Well...

TALIESIN: No, what do you mean? We're cool.

SAM: I don't want to draw too much attention, but
I want to be safe.

TRAVIS: (loudly) Are you buying drugs?

(laughter)

TALIESIN: Could not be happier.

LIAM: What an episode! What an episode.

TALIESIN: There's so many valuable lessons that
can be learned at any moment.

LAURA: Do you think maybe the reason Jarett was
almost arrested was because of this fucking spice?

TALIESIN: I think that's precisely what happened.

LAURA: What the hell was he thinking?

SAM: But we're going to do it smarter. We're going
to do it better.

TALIESIN: No, we're not! (laughs) He's
legitimately smarter than us.

SAM: I can do this. I am the one who cocks.

(laughter)

SAM: I can do this. But I need some backup. Maybe
Vax could come and he could wear red. And he could

be the guy who--

LAURA: Aren't they going to be looking for a very
little man?

SAM: Okay, I'll wear the red, but maybe you could
be there.

LIAM: I will go with you, and I will hang back,
and I will be there to stab out the eyes of anyone

who wants to hurt you, but you are the talker,
man. You've always been the talker.

SAM: Okay.

LAURA: Why does Scanlan never think I'm very cool?
Why does he think that?

SAM: No, I think you're great.

LAURA: You never want me to go with you, I
could've helped you find Kaylie, and you didn't

ask me to.

LIAM: Well, let's be real. She's the coolest one
in the group, really.

SAM: The big pointy hat, it's really dorky.

LAURA: You're the one who fucking makes me wear
this thing!

SAM: I know!

LIAM: Can she take it off at the casino, though?

LAURA: I'm not flying. I can take it off whenever
I fucking want!

TRAVIS: Can we all come? It sounds super
dangerous. I just want to watch. I'll be so sly.

TALIESIN: We are, by the way, walking to our next
destination.

MARISHA: No, I am enjoying my hookah.

TALIESIN: Oh, I forgot we got hookah. Oh my god.

LAURA: We're sitting and hookah-ing through this
whole fucking thing.

LIAM: I did it before, but I don't think I really
did it.

MARISHA: Is this a split hose? We have a split
hose.

SAM: No, thanks. I'm straight-edge tonight. I've
got to think clearly.

MARISHA: It's just tobacco, Scanlan.

TALIESIN: Is it just tobacco? We really don't
actually know.

MARISHA: Actually, that's a good point. I do a few
test puffs. Is it just tobacco? Is there something

special about this hookah?

MATT: It seems to be just delightfully flavored
tobacco.

MARISHA: It's nice! So okay, you don't want to
inhale all at once. It's more like flavor thing.

Like a cigar.

LIAM: Yeah. I copy Keyleth. (coughs)

MARISHA: Vax. Come on.

LAURA: Good job, brother. Good job.

TRAVIS: What happened to you?

LIAM: I just, (coughs, sniffs) I can't stop
(coughs) coughing. (coughs) I'm fine.

MARISHA: Wow. This is cute, actually. This is
adorable. I hand him some water from my pouch.

Just a little dry.

LIAM: (coughs) It's really good.

LAURA: Wow, you've never looked cooler in your
entire life.

LIAM: I agree with you.

TRAVIS: Is there a bar in this place? A proper
bar?

MATT: Not really a bar. It seems the servants take
orders and bring you your various liquid

imbibements.

TRAVIS: Right. Can I flag down a--

MATT: Yeah. You see a man walks up to you, long
dark curly hair, bit of a goatee growing. "How

"can I help you?"

TRAVIS: Yeah, I'm royalty from a far-off land. I
pride myself on trying the fiercest spirit in the

area that I'm visiting. What do you guys pride
yourself on?

MATT: "You want the Sandkheg's Hide."

TRAVIS: The sandcake side?

MATT: "The Sandkheg's Hide."

TRAVIS: Oh, hide. Oh, is it a food or a drink?

MATT: "It's a drink."

TRAVIS: Yeah, then one of those'd be great.

MATT: "It's expensive."

TRAVIS: Yeah, well, don't tell anybody but I'm
super fucking rich. Only because I have to check

with my national treasury, how much is it?

MATT: "Ah, do you wish to have a glass or a
bottle?"

TRAVIS: A bottle.

MATT: "A bottle will run you 350 gold pieces."

SAM: Oh!

TRAVIS: I'll take two.

MATT: Walks off.

TALIESIN: How have we not stopped this?!

MATT: Comes back with two very full-- (laughs)

LAURA: That's from your personal fucking funds!

TRAVIS: We be clubbing, motherfuckers.

LAURA: That ain't no party funds.

TALIESIN: Those are gold coins. You're not making
it rain, you're making it hail, for god's sakes.

MARISHA: Does that get to come with us, or is it
bottle service? Because if this is bottle service,

we're here for the night.

TRAVIS: Okay, maybe there's champagne though,
yes?

MATT: He comes back a little later with these two
dark green glass wine bottles that have this

heavy leather wrapped around them and bolted
together at certain places. It looks like leather

at times, but as you get closer, you feel it's
actually hard. It's almost like a chitinous armor

on the outside of the glass.

TRAVIS: This was meant for me.

MATT: Both of these vials are given to you with
heavy corks that are wax-coated over the top.

"Here you are."

TRAVIS: Oh! May I start a tab? No? Fine. Then I
give, shit. (mutters) How much do I owe?

LAURA: 700.

TRAVIS 700. Here's 800 gold.

SAM: Oh my god.

MATT: "Thank you very much, and please, do let me
know if you require anything else."

TRAVIS: No problems.

MATT: And he exits the room.

TALIESIN: I have never hated you so much before,
in my entire life.

TRAVIS: Prepare to drink like kings.

LIAM: I feel the opposite way. I'm very proud.

MARISHA: Yeah, yeah. Grog, I think this bottle's
more well-armored than we are.

TRAVIS: Yeah, it's like amazing animal-skin
Maker's Mark. So how do we crack this bitch open?

SAM: Guys, I need you to be clear-headed tonight!

TALIESIN: I'm having a glass of this. We've just
paid a fortune for it.

LAURA: We're saving a bottle.

TALIESIN: We are saving a bottle.

TRAVIS: Right. Are there any opening utensils
around, because I don't want to unsheathe--

TALIESIN: May I sword it?

MATT: You may.

TALIESIN: I'm going to sword it.

LAURA: But don't take your sword out, because
we're not allowed to bring our weapons out.

TALIESIN: Oh, there's no weapon in here?

MATT: You're currently private in the room.

TALIESIN: Oh, we're private in the room.

MARISHA: I thought this was an open tent-commune
thing.

MATT: It's an open ceiling, but there are rooms
segmented by cloth and what looks like sandstone

walls, so there are little pockets and alcoves,
and you guys currently have one that you're in

right now.

TALIESIN: It's not no weapons, it's just no usage
of them.

LIAM: Let's keep them sheathed, he said at the
gate. But we are pretty hidden.

TALIESIN: I'll just pop it.

MATT: Comes off, and the cork flies and bounces
off one of the nearby walls. The smell that comes to

you is extremely strong. It resembles a very
vinegar turned wine mixed with this, for lack of a

better term, a very earthy scent. It's almost
herbal, medicinal. It's not at all what you would

have expected for something so expensive.

TRAVIS: Who wants to be first? Keyleth?

MARISHA: Fill me up. Oh wait, you want me to go
first?

LAURA: I want a shot.

TRAVIS: You want a shot?

SAM: Percival just took some.

MATT: As it touches your tongue, that smell
transitions into a very acidic taste. It actually

burns your tongue, and it goes numb within a
matter of seconds. It is not a delightful flavor,

and as the tongue goes numb, the back of the
throat goes numb as you swallow. As the numbness

continues down the rest of the body, the flavor
has not improved at all, but it brings this

universal numbness. And as the slight pain of the
burn subsides, you, with just but a few sips,

become extremely intoxicated, but also just numb.

LIAM and MARISHA: How is it?

TALIESIN: (slurring) Not very good.

LAURA: Oh shit.

TALIESIN: (slurring) But if--

LAURA: Oh, he's fucking wasted.

MARISHA: I slap him.

TALIESIN: (slurring) You should do that again.
That felt really good. I'll do it.

LAURA: Oh shit.

SAM: Liquid MDMA.

MARISHA: I take a sip.

LAURA: I'm not drinking mine. Here, Grog.

MARISHA: I want to know! I take a sip.

MATT: You take a sip, and the same sensation
takes, and the numbness sets in, this

slight vibration at the back of the skull.
Elements of this remind you of being very drunk,

with but a few sips.

LIAM: Hey, can you hear me? Yeah? You all right?

MARISHA: (slurring) Oh holy shit.

MARISHA and TALIESIN: (slurring) This is so
weird.

MARISHA: (laughs)

TALIESIN: (slurring) We're good.

LIAM: I take them by the cheeks. Can you feel
this?

TALIESIN and MARISHA: Yeah!

LIAM: You can?

MARISHA: (affirmative grunt)

LIAM: Can you feel this?

TALIESIN and MARISHA: (affirmative grunt)

TRAVIS: Does it taste good?

TALIESIN and MARISHA: (dissenting grunt)

LIAM: Do you recommend it?

TALIESIN and MARISHA: (non-committal grunt)

(laughter)

TRAVIS: (high-pitched) It hurts man, oh my god!

LAURA: Are you going to try it, Grog?

(laughter)

LIAM: I am not going to have a sip of that right
now. Definitely sometime, but--

LAURA: Back in the mansion, maybe.

LIAM: Yeah.

LAURA: But not when we have to do something
tonight.

TALIESIN: (slurring) What do we have to do?

LAURA: As charming as you two are right now.

TRAVIS: I'm going to stopper it and then I'm going
to put the extra bottle in the Bag of Holding.

SAM: You didn't have any?

TRAVIS: Nope.

LIAM: Just these two?

TRAVIS: (laughing) Money well spent!

LAURA: Can I step out and find that waiter that we
paid for?

LIAM: Yeah, you're both really cute right now, but
you're useless.

MARISHA: I lean on Vax a little bit.

LAURA: Wonderful beverages you just served us. How
long does that last?

MATT: "Depends on how much you're drinking."

LAURA: Just a tiny bit.

MATT: "Hour, maybe."

LAURA: Fabulous. They came with quite a price tag,
didn't they?

MATT: "'It's very dangerous to harvest and create,
yes."

LAURA: I could assume. What exactly is in?

LIAM: Yes, what are they harvested from?

MATT: He thinks a minute, then goes, "I don't know
which part of the sandkheg it is, but it is taken

"from the usually venomous bile or spittle of the
creature."

TALIESIN: (slurring) That's really good bile!

TRAVIS: It's a living thing.

LAURA: I'm assuming, I mean, back in the city that
we're from--

MATT: "Mind you, it is refined and pickled by the
finest of various-- It is a delicacy across

"Ank'Harel and northern areas of Marquet. I was
merely fulfilling the request of your companion.

TALIESIN: (slurring) No, it's very good.

LAURA: Thank you so much. Where we're from,
usually when purchasing such a great and expensive

item, room service is included. I'm assuming we
have somewhere to stay for the night?

TALIESIN: (slurring) I don't think that it's that
kind of place.

MATT: "I mean, you are welcome to stay, should you
pay an evening price, yes, but that is not part of

"the price of the drink of which you have
purchased, no."

LAURA: Oh. Cultural differences! Good to know.

TALIESIN: (slurring) We have to move.

LIAM: Hey. Can you say your full name right now?

TALIESIN: (slurred) Percival Fredrickstein von
Musel Klossowski de Rolo the third of Whitestone.

SAM: Don't say the W word!

TALIESIN: (slurring) Whitestone?

SAM: Okay, it's fine now.

TALIESIN: (slurring) What? (shushing)

TRAVIS: How long until you have to meet this guy
at the casino?

TALIESIN: (slurring) Why're you talking? Just
(shushes).

SAM: What time is it? Has the sun gone down?

MATT: No, you guys woke up maybe two and a half
hours ago.

TALIESIN: Day drinking! Yes!

MATT: You're maybe getting close to noon. The sun,
last you saw before you got here, was close to the

center of the sky.

TRAVIS: Well, we've got time to kill, right?

LAURA: We need to go find the Debt's Respite and
maybe get a room.

SAM: Is that where we're going to sleep tonight?

LAURA: That's where the Scarbearers are. We can
get a room here.

LIAM: And your deal is this evening, yes?

SAM: Yeah, we've got some time for that.

TRAVIS: So we take off for the Debt's Respite.

MATT: Okay. Who's leading the charge for that?

TRAVIS: No, you're not. I will.

MATT: Okay. Go ahead and make an investigation
check, if you don't mind.

SAM: Investigation. You're terrible at those.

MARISHA: (laughing) This is everything I wanted.

TALIESIN: I'm so happy right now.

LAURA: 26.

MATT: 26 investigation check. Within ten minutes
you've asked the right questions between a number

of various street urchins and street salespersons,
to be directed straight towards the Debt's Respite.

SAM: I wrote it down correctly, Matt.

MATT: In following the direction, you end up
walking up to what looks like a rather

rundown-looking establishment. The broken glass
windows and missing front door lead you to think

that perhaps it's been abandoned for months. Looks
a little rough and ramshackle.

LAURA: But they said this was being guarded by the
Hand of Ord. Interesting.

SAM: My contact in the underworld said that this
was a place that is a known hangout for seedy

types. Right? Am I remembering that correctly?

LAURA: No, the guard at the front of the city told
us this was one of the places that you could stay,

and it was guarded.

MATT: He said it was a place you could stay,
because you were asking for taverns and inns.

LIAM: We have accounts from two different people,
and they're two different opinions.

TALIESIN: It's like Yelp. But better. I'm going to
knock. (knocking)

MATT: As you approach the front door, it's
partially ajar and as you push it open, you can see

the inside is a whole different story. As your
eyes adjust to the interior you find actually a

bustling business of barhands slinging tankards
across seven stained wood tables, some of the folk

look rather day-drunk, similar to these
individuals, though it has worn a bit off since

the original sip. And most look to be various
miscreants or post-work farmers taking a break.

The interior is familiar and probably closer to
the taverns you're used to in more of the poorer

districts of Emon and surrounding cities than some
of the more luxurious areas you've recently found

yourselves in. Vax, Vex, and Keyleth-- actually,
Keyleth, make a perception check with

disadvantage.

MARISHA: Aw. I see why you're doing that. With
disadvantage?

MATT: Yes.

MARISHA: 17.

MATT: Okay. Vex and Vax, as you guys walk into the
room, you do catch off in the distance behind a

series of barrels that are stacked and the edge of
a shelf that contains rows and rows of glasses,

tankards, plates, and various things. You just
barely make out what looks to be an androgynous

figure, face masked with dark blue and black
cloth, with a hint of leather armor, hiding in the

corner. Like barely visible to you and you can
make out the details due to your very keen ability

to gather your surroundings quickly.

LIAM: Is the armor similar to that suit of armor
we saw on the other guy?

MATT: Nope. This is very muddled, low leather
armor.

LAURA: Are they wearing a cloak?

MATT: Can't tell; their back's hidden, and they're
quiet.

LAURA: So they don't have something up? Do they
have a hood over their head?

MATT: They have a hood and a mask. Looks to be
like a cloth mask wrapped around him.

LIAM: I'm going to hang by the two sobering-up
twins over here and keep an eye on that person.

MATT: You guys also watch throughout all the
various patrons and people that are wandering

about this establishment, one figure stands out
amongst the others. You see a bronze-scaled

dragonborn: bulky and thick, muscular armored in
light hides and bracers. He clutches an untouched

mug that is brimming with an amber-colored ale and
is lost in thought, staring off towards one of the

broken windows that leads outside. Very heavy,
muscular arms. Maybe not quite the height of Grog,

but definitely a similar build.

LAURA: Tail or no tail?

MATT: Sitting down, you can't tell.

LIAM: You don't know.

MATT: What do you guys do?

TALIESIN: (slurring) We're fine.

LAURA: Wow. I guess I walk up to the
tavernkeep.

MATT: There is no tavernkeep. There are barmaids
walking around and passing drinks, but there is no

barkeep right now.

LAURA: I grab one of the barmaids. Who do we speak
to about a room?

MATT: "You would speak to Treev," and points to
the dragonborn, who is currently staring out of

the window.

LAURA: Oh. Well, there we go. I walk over.

TRAVIS: I go with her.

MATT: He's spacing out. As soon as you approach he
goes, (groans) "What do you want, bothering a

"fellow in mid-fantasy?"

LAURA: Sorry, sir.

MATT: "What can I do for you?"

LAURA: We're interested in a room for the night,
actually.

MATT: "All right, well, what's your name?"

LAURA: Vex'ahlia.

MATT: "Vex'ahlia. Treev. Treev Bonebreaker." And
grabs your arm. As opposed to a handshake, like a

full-on forearm, meaty grasp. Treev. T-R-E-E-V.
"Treev Bonebreaker. Current caretaker of this fine

"establishment. Looking for rooms? I've got three
available."

LAURA: Wonderful. Mind if I sit down?

MATT: "At this rate, sure. I doubt I'm going to
find myself back to that dream. Anyway, what do

"you and your rather scrawny-looking friend there
have to say?"

TRAVIS: I look around.

LAURA: We're actually here on a rather important
mission from Emon.

MATT: "Never been there."

LAURA: It was quite a beautiful city. Not as
much anymore.

MATT: "Well, that's unfortunate. Sometimes cities
fall to the lowest despots. It happens."

LAURA: Yes, it does.

MATT: "Rooms?"

LAURA: Yes. Three, you said?

MATT: "Three rooms available."

LAURA: And how much would those rooms be?

MATT: "How many are staying?"

SAM: Six.

LAURA: Six of us?

MATT: "And your bear?"

LAURA: Well, yes, but he doesn't take up much
space.

MATT: "Well we have to put a bear tax on this, you
realize."

LAURA: "A bear tax?"

MATT: "Yes. I haven't had a bear here before. Who
knows what damage it can do? Consider it protection."

LAURA: You know what? He can sleep outside, don't
worry. Don't worry about the bear.

MATT: "All right. I take no responsibility what
happens to your bear outside."

LAURA: Thank you.

MATT: "That'll run you ten gold per room. 30 gold
for the night."

LAURA: (whispers) Ten gold? (louder) Are these
really fancy rooms, then?

MATT: "No. God no. I don't know where you're from
in Emon or what the prices are there, but here,

"it's expensive."

LAURA: Every fucking thing is expensive here.

TALIESIN: Can I attempt to start looking around
the room to try and find anything interesting and

try and be useful?

MATT: Make an investigation check with
disadvantage.

LAURA: Can I insight and see if he's just taking
fucking advantage of us because we're tourists? I

don't want to roll that one. I want to roll this
one.

TALIESIN: Investigation? 12.

LAURA: Natural 20!

MARISHA: Oh shit.

MATT: Yeah, he straight-up jacked the price up. He
can see the foreigner on your face.

LAURA: You know what? We probably don't need the
three rooms. They offered us some over at The

Shade. It's fine.

MATT: "Certainly. Whatever your business may be.
Is that all you need?"

LAURA: Are you from Tal'Dorei?

MATT: "Me? No. Not originally."

LAURA: No.

MATT: "Why?"

LAURA: So you haven't heard of Draconia? Can I see
from here if he has a tail or not?

MATT: There is no tail behind him.

LAURA: Have you heard?

MATT: "Of Draconia? Unfortunately."

LAURA: Have you heard what happened?

MATT: "No."

LAURA: Draconia has fallen.

MATT: Grabs his drink that he's holding up, slams
it on the table. It spills over. "You fucking with me?"

LAURA: No.

MATT: "Well, there's a reason for
celebration." And just chugs the entire drink in

one go, you can see his dragonborn gullet just
accepting the entire drink in one gulp. (sighs)

LAURA: Well, I'd be happy to tell you more detail
for a reasonable price on the rooms.

MATT: (laughs) "Sit down. All of you. 15 gold for
the lot. All the meaty details. Sure."

LAURA: So we tell him.

MATT: You tell him about everything, and he
listens in. He starts enjoying it, and eventually

falls a bit, sinking in the stake of things, and
eventually that celebration falls to acceptance.

TALIESIN: Does anyone mind if I fill him in on the
future of Draconia?

SAM: If you do it in a slurry speech, sure.

TALIESIN: It's going to be slightly slurry, but at
this point at least I'm English again. We have the

next several weeks we were going to attempt to
free the populace from their new lord and master.

But in order to do that we are here on a mission.
We're searching for something. We're searching for

a one-eyed merchant warrior, and a cloak.

MATT: "Well look, if you're looking to hire,
you've got to explain the task then. We do have a

"code. Fuck what the rumors say."

TALIESIN: I've never found anyone who doesn't have
a code who lived very long to tell about it.

MATT: "Aye. Long enough. What's the point in
living without one? That's how you end up shivved

"in the stomach and left to bleed in the street.
What you looking to hire for?"

TALIESIN: We are looking for the one-eyed merchant
warrior who wears the coat of Cabal's Ruin.

MATT: "I know who you're seeking, aye. Mistress
Asharru."

TALIESIN: Mistress Asharru?

MARISHA: We have a name! Goddamn it.

MATT: "She's one of our finest, and expensive
because of it. But friend, she's been off for a

"week since her last job, so mayhaps her schedule
is open. Would have to inquire. Write me a summary

"of your job you have for her. I'll have it
delivered. Her answer may take a week or so."

TALIESIN: We do not have, sadly, a week or so. The
dragon falls in two weeks.

MATT: "Well, write her a letter, she'll receive
it, and she'll return to you when she sees it fit.

"Our business is our business. If you don't like
it, shove off, find someone else."

TALIESIN: Sadly no one else will do. Not that I
want to inquire of the sort of business she's in,

because that's inappropriate, but is she in the
town at least? If we were to write her, could we

get word to her quickly?

MATT: "Why, I can get word to her immediately, but
it's up to her when she wants to respond."

TALIESIN: Is there anything else you can tell me
about her?

MATT: He starts giving you a curious look and
goes, "You come in here asking to hire one of my

"finest and don't know what work she does?"

TALIESIN: I know what work she does.

MATT: "What work do you need her for?"

TALIESIN: We need to save the world.

MATT: "And you need her help to save the world."

TALIESIN: Sadly, but true. We at the very least
need her blessing.

LAURA: While he's talking, can I keep an eye on
the figure in the corner?

MATT: Yeah. Make a perception check.

TALIESIN: There are things that have been released
upon this earth that will burn everything. And

they will make their way here. Draconia is gone.
Tal'Dorei is gone. All swaths of civilization have

been wiped off the earth.

MATT: "We've weathered beasts. We've weathered
dragons here in Emon."

TALIESIN: Not like we've seen.

MATT: "So be it. But nevertheless, you want to
hire her, you've got to write her a proposal." And

he slides across a piece of parchment with a small
quill about it. "I'll deliver it, and she'll get

"back to you when she sees fit."

SAM: Does she have a normal price?

MATT: "Depends on the job you're asking. She'll
set her price."

SAM: Okay.

LAURA: 30 perception.

MATT: 30 perception? The figure is watching all of
you intensely but has not moved an inch. All

you've seen are the eyes move, but they've been
trained on your entire group since you arrived.

LIAM: I've been watching.

SAM: Okay.

TRAVIS: Could I ask, (coughs) other than gambling,
what sort of entertainment can you find in this city?

MATT: "All sorts of entertainment. There's various
singers, musicians, dancers, performers. If you're

"looking for company there's all sorts of
entertainment in that regard, of all the

"spectrums. If you're looking for games, probably a
few months out before we get to any sort of the

"gladiatorial events."

TRAVIS: I'm sorry, could you just, a bit more
on--

MATT: "That's months away."

LIAM: There's no place for our friend to get
into a scrap?

MATT: "Well, you could certainly find a scrap, but
none that are sanctioned by the Hand, and they'll

"put you away."

LIAM: Sorry, big man.

MATT: "Lest you have someone to duel you. That's a
whole different business."

TRAVIS: What? Duel?

MATT: "That's sanctioned by the law."

TRAVIS: A duel? A one-on-one duel?

MATT: "If you challenge one to a duel and they
accept, aye."

TRAVIS: In this city, it's legal? Anytime? High
noon, midnight, when?

MATT: "You just have to sanction it by the Hand.
You have to make sure that you both agree to fight

"to the death, and the fight has to happen in the
Bowl of Judgment."

TRAVIS and SAM: The Bowl of Judgment?

MATT: "Sits about the Sandherald district outside
of the Cerulean Palace."

TRAVIS: Wait, is that that super fucking tall thing
we saw?

MATT: "That's the Cerulean Palace. It's quite
close to it, aye."

LAURA: Are any items allowed in the bowl, or do
you have to go in bare-handed?

MATT: "It depends on the sanctions of the Ord and
the agreement you come to, but fisticuffs are

"great for the gladiatorial events, but if you're
fighting to the death, sometimes it's nice to

"bring a blade in."

MARISHA: So what type of people like to
participate in these duels?

MATT: "The kind that got nothing to lose. The kind
that got a point worth proving with their life.

"Those kind. Doesn't happen often. When it does
happen, it's a spectacle."

TALIESIN: Is there like a lighter fight that can
be found?

SAM: Arm wrestling match.

TALIESIN: Arm wrestling or-- I don't know, what
would be worse less than--

LAURA: UFC.

MARISHA: Less than a Bowl of Judgment?

SAM: Cup of Truth?

(laughter)

TALIESIN: A Wok of Truth, maybe.

MARISHA: Bowl of Wheaties.

LIAM: Tablespoon of Wrath.

(laughter)

TALIESIN: This is really uncomfortable.

MATT: "A few months until the games begin, but
until then, that's about the only way you'll find

"bloodshed here. At least that won't lend you up in
prison."

TRAVIS: All right.

SAM and LAURA: Good to know.

TALIESIN: I'm sitting and I'm starting to compose
a letter.

LAURA: How's his handwriting?

TALIESIN: Flouncy.

MATT: You're starting to gain it back. What do you
write?

TALIESIN: I'm going to show everybody before I
hand it in. I'm going to write the truth, top to

bottom, of the world is peril, we are facing a
battle, and she holds or knows of an item that

would turn the tide, and I wish to know its price
or know its rental.

MARISHA: Wow.

SAM: What are you asking her?

MARISHA: I feel like that's not going to work.

TALIESIN: I'm holding it. Before I hand it in I'm
going to show. I don't feel that there is any

deceit-- there is nothing I can think to say beyond
the truth. We are either dealing with honest

people, or we are not.

MARISHA: I have a feeling that... yeah.

LAURA: What if we just--

TALIESIN: I'm also putting my rank and title and
letting them know that I'm willing to--

SAM: Give away Vex's title?

TALIESIN: I'm willing to give away Vex. Vex is
entirely up for sale. No.

TRAVIS: You're planning to recruit this person?

TALIESIN: I'm not looking to recruit this person.
I'm looking to rent or buy an object that she

owns, or perhaps even trade, and we'll put 400
gold.

MARISHA: Just to meet with her?

LAURA: Just to meet with her.

TALIESIN: As an offer of a meeting.

LIAM and MARISHA: That's not bad.

MATT: He takes it. He packages in in a small
container, a leather container.

MARISHA: Did you put in there that it had to be
prompt? That it had to be prompt?

TALIESIN: And that time is of the essence.

MATT: "Oh, don't worry." (whistles) Whistles
through his fingers and the figure in the wall

that you'd been watching steps forward and slowly
walks towards the table. Holds up the scroll, and the

figure leans in. Covers his mouth and he whispers
into the ear of the figure. The figure takes the

scroll, gives a nod to all of you, and walks out
of the tavern. "He'll deliver that to her

"promptly, now be on your way. 15 gold."

LAURA: Oh yes, of course! Thank you for the rooms.

MATT: Takes a keyring out and starts fudging
through the keys, pulls a few off and tosses them

to you across the table. "All right, you've got it
for a night."

LIAM: I heard Grog. I'm going to follow out the
door, go stealth.

MATT: Okay. You vanish out the door. Make a
perception check.

LIAM: 22.

MATT: 22. Okay. As you glance out the door and
pull outside-- you're going stealth as well, you

said? Roll stealth.

LIAM: That is 25.

MATT: 25. Okay. You turn around the corner just as
you see a flash of dark cloth around the edge of

the Debt's Respite. You rush off to the edge and
look around the corner way and down the alley. You

can see the figure, full on, arms out to the side
rushed behind, going into a very fast run, down

the shaded hallway.

LIAM: Shaded hallway?

MATT: The alleyway.

LIAM: I'll follow.

MATT: Okay, so you continue to follow.

LIAM: At a distance.

MATT: All right. Following the masked figure, you
continue to give chance. It darts erratically,

zig-zagging between areas. You can see this is a
very trained pattern to lose anybody following

them, but you're also trained in following those
that wish not to be followed. Make another

perception check.

LIAM: 24.

MATT: You come around one corner, and you can see
there's a wall that ends there, and you see just a

little slip of material pass. And as you glance
over, you can see the figure has jumped down onto

a lower walkway onto what appears to be a recessed
sector of this part of Ank'Harel, and has already

darted beneath a nearby bridge and overpass that
walks across to another series of buildings. You

leap over, keeping in the shadow, and give chase
down that way. You turn around underneath the

bridge and you can see underneath the bridge,
there is an archway that leads into a dark path

down an actual hallway beneath the series of
buildings you just saw ahead of you. Make another

perception check.

LIAM: 22.

MATT: 22. You look down the hallway, and you see
the shadow of the figure framed against what looks

to be another opening on the opposite side but the
sunlight is coming through. You can just see the

dark outline as it darts forward and then leaps
off again, down the right past that exit. You

follow, and you look off the side just as you see
the figure slink behind one large crate next to a

storage section outside of a warehouse. It ducks
behind another one. Darts up to a building that

looks to be shuttered and closed. It looks like a
furniture store with a little sign at the top that

says, "A Kingly Home." It moves an empty rain
barrel to the side and slips the leather case

through a hole that was previously hidden by the
barrel, dropping it inside the building, slides

the barrel over it again. Looks back and forth.
Make another stealth check.

LIAM: 25.

MATT: 25. Doesn't seem to make notice, and then
darts off, leaping, leaping up onto a rooftop and

vanishing off.

LIAM: You said, "A Kingly Home"?

MATT: A Kingly Home.

LIAM: I'm going to stealth back to the Debt's
Respite.

MATT: Keeping a very close watch on the path you
took and marking it mentally back to the Debt's

Respite. It's probably a good mile off from where
you guys were, if not a little further. You guys

continue your conversation, go about your own
business. Eventually, Vax returns with the

information, the path of wherever this letter was
dropped off to.

TRAVIS: Just curious, have you ever had the
Sandkheg Hide?

MATT: "Are you serious?"

TRAVIS: Yeah. I'm just asking.

MATT: "No, I ain't drinking that bullshit."

TRAVIS: Really?

MATT: "Yeah."

TRAVIS: Too stiff for you?

MATT: "Too stiff for anyone! It's-- what?"

TRAVIS: I mean, I hear only real bosses can drink
that jazz.

MATT: "That's not a drink. That's probably
squeezed from the arsehole of some sort of beast

"out in the desert. I prefer my stuff taken from
berries and the sweet stuff."

TRAVIS: What do you mean, some beast? Who'd make a
drink out of some animal's whatever?

MATT: "Have you have some, have you tasted it?"

TRAVIS: Yeah!

MATT: "Then I guess you know what an animal's bum tastes
like, eh?"

TRAVIS: (sputters) Hold on. You mean they squeeze
the asshole of something out there?

MATT: "Oh, completely!"

TRAVIS: No!

MATT: "They hold it down and just squeeze its abdomen
and the whole sandkheg spews out into this little

"glass barrel and then you pay for it. Top
dollar."

TRAVIS: Yeah, it's 300 something gold!

MATT: "Oh, did you buy some?"

TRAVIS: No.

MATT: Make an insight check.

TRAVIS: Three.

MATT: You brain is filled with image of whatever
creature your imagination has come up with being

held down.

TRAVIS: It's a giant, hairy water yak.

MATT: And it is squeezing some sort of yellowish
liquid from its abdomen into a glass wine bottle,

and you're now looking over at Percy and Keyleth
who had just had sips of this earlier. It's not

sitting well with your stomach.

TRAVIS: We were gifted a bottle, and a couple of
my friends had partook.

MATT: (cackles)

TRAVIS: They say the stuff we had is A-plus.

TALIESIN: Yes.

MATT: Vax now appears at the edge of the table.

LAURA: Oh, hi!

LIAM: Hey. Took a little walk.

LAURA: Let's go to the rooms. Let's check it out.
How about that?

LIAM: Sure.

LAURA: Thank you for the rooms. Breakfast? Is
there breakfast here?

MATT: (scoffs) "No, you find your own food."

LAURA: Awesome.

MARISHA: Does he still have some drink in front of
him?

MATT: It hasn't been filled since, no.

MARISHA: Oh, never mind.

MATT: Do you guys head to your rooms? Okay. You
make your way up to the rooms. They're all clean,

serviceable, nothing too fancy, but functional
rooms. Each with two beds.

TALIESIN: I want to check for anything unusual, if
there's anything iffy about the rooms.

MATT: Investigation check.

LAURA: Oh, I would follow suit.

MATT: Investigation check.

TALIESIN: Oh, for the love of fucking--

MATT: Natural one?

TALIESIN: No. Nine.

MATT: Nine. Nothing seems to be out of place or
out of the ordinary.

TALIESIN: Obviously.

LAURA: 13.

MATT: 13? Seems to be a room.

SAM: I'm just going to check under the beds,
that's it.

MATT: Okay. Make an investigation check.

SAM: 29!

MATT: 29. You find dust, dead insects, a dried-out
rodent husk, and that's it.

LIAM: Grog, you want to bunk up?

TRAVIS: Yeah, sure. Are we going two to a room?

LIAM: Yeah, there's six of us.

MATT: It's also about 3:00 in the afternoon.

LIAM: I know that. I'm not going to go lie down on
the floor. I just thought I'd call dibs.

TRAVIS: Yeah. Cool.

LAURA: Scanlan, then. Me and you?

SAM: Sure!

LAURA: No. I'm kidding. I don't want
to be in the same room with you at all.

SAM: Oh, I need a bucket and a mop.

LAURA: No. You're with him.

MARISHA: I'm with Vex.

TALIESIN: Yes. What?

LAURA: Yes.

MARISHA: Have fun!

TALIESIN: With-- not-- no!

LIAM: That's later.

LAURA: What did you see?

LIAM: Yeah, so we've got a backup plan because I
followed whoever that person was back to where

they dropped off. We should probably honor the
offer first. If that goes sideways, then we have a

backup plan.

TALIESIN: It's so rare that we're actually given
an opportunity to be honest about everything. We

might as well try it once, see if we like it.

SAM: But do you know where this person receives
her messages?

LIAM: Absolutely.

TALIESIN: Good.

TRAVIS: Where is it?

LIAM: Well, I don't know the names of the streets.
I remember what it looked like. If you want to

follow me, it's about a mile off. It looked like a
furniture store. A Kingly Rest.

LAURA: And you didn't even have to say jenga!

LIAM: Wonders never cease.

TRAVIS: A Kingly Rest. All right.

MATT: What are you guys doing?

LIAM: Well, the casino's tonight. The deal's off.
We can't get Grog in a fight.

LAURA: Do you have a red shirt, Scanlan? Do we
need to get you one?

SAM: Do we own anything red? Grog?

TRAVIS: What?

SAM: Do we have anything red?

TRAVIS: We have three fancy robes left.

MATT: You do not own a red shirt, but you could
probably find one. Not too difficult.

SAM: All right. I'll find one. Take 20 minutes.

MATT: It doesn't take you too long. Costs you two
silver pieces. You find a nice red shirt,

billowing sleeves. It's totally up your alley.

SAM: Okay, great!

TRAVIS: Can we go back out to the bazaar? Are far from
there, or are we still close?

MATT: He's gone through the bazaar. You're not too
far from it. Maybe a ten-minute walk.

TRAVIS: They sell any weapons?

LAURA: And potions. We need potions.

TALIESIN: Trinkets.

TRAVIS: Can I look and see if people are selling
weapons?

MATT: You walk around. and there are weapons being
sold.

TRAVIS: Are there any exotic weapons?

MATT: No. Most weapons you find here are
ornamental; they're for decoration. They're for

putting above mantelpieces. There are various
blades that have bolting mechanisms in the back

where you can easily mount them to a wall. None of
them, that you can see, at least, that are open in

this bazaar for sale, are presented as an actual
item for warfare.

TRAVIS: Okay.

TALIESIN: Is there a magic shop?

MATT: Make an investigation check.

TALIESIN: Oh god.

MARISHA: Come on, Percy. Roll something good.
That's better!

TALIESIN: 19.

MATT: 19. Asking about, you do come to, within the
bazaar, a small wooden building that's like a hut,

but it's constructed of dark wood panels. It
resembles those strange marionette performance boxes.

TALIESIN: Punch and Judy box, yeah.

MATT: Except it just has this one frazzled-looking
young woman standing there with long strands of

curly dark brown hair. Red lips, dark eyeshadow.
She's eagerly looking out with a sign in the front

that reads, "Oddities and Eccentricities."

TALIESIN: Good day.

MARISHA: Be pleased.

MATT: "Good day."

TALIESIN: Be pleased.

MATT: "Be pleased to you as well."

TALIESIN: I'm stocked up on eccentricities, but if
you have any oddities for sale, I'd be very

interested.

MATT: "There are many oddities at my disposal. I'm
Nisaba."

TALIESIN: Percival. Hello.

MATT: "What kind of oddities are you looking
for?"

TALIESIN: Honestly, this is my first time in the
city, and I'm trying to get a sense of what's

available for sale and what sorts of things one
would find in the city, so really, I'm interested

in touring your stock, especially if you have
anything exotic.

MATT: "Well, let me show you." Over the next five
minutes, she brings out all sorts of strange

knickknacks. It's essentially a display from the
most awkward of vintage Salvation Armies you've

ever come across.

TALIESIN: God, we've found a hipster.

MATT: However, you do catch a quick flash of what
appears to be some small crystalline vials that

appear to be strapped to some sort of leather
bandolier.

TALIESIN: Well, that's interesting. What do you
call that?

MATT: "This is for, well, a gentleman who passed
through many years ago, who claimed to be a great

"alchemist, sold this off when he had come into a
lot of debt within the city, so I made a good

"price. No one has really showed much interest in
it."

TALIESIN: Interesting. May I? May I take a look at
it?

MATT: "You may."

TALIESIN: Thank you.

MATT: The leather's finely made, if a little worn.
The chemicals inside-- one of them does have a

familiar color, a deep herbal red. This looks to
be some sort of a low to medium level healing

potion, most likely, from your experience in the
use of that. The two others are grayish and murky

and don't really draw your attention or anything
you're familiar with.

TALIESIN: Interesting.

MARISHA: Percy, what's that?

TALIESIN: I don't know. It's quite nice, though,
isn't it?

MARISHA: Well. Can I do a check on the other two
potions to see with my potion knowledge? My potion sense?

MATT: Make an intelligence check.

MARISHA: Not bad. Just straight intelligence? 15.

MATT: 15. They do appear to have been prepared in
the way that you prepare magically enchanted vials

for potions themselves, but you're not really able
to make out just at a glance. You'd have to spend

quite a time to make out what their nature is.

MARISHA: I'd have to look at it. Not familiar,
sorry. That looks like a health potion, though.

TALIESIN: Yeah. It does look a bit--

MARISHA: Healthy.

SAM: It's like Storage Wars. Just buy it. Who
knows what's in there?

TALIESIN: What were you hoping to unload for it?

MATT: "Well, knowing that is now a magic potion of
healing and two other magical potions, that is a

"very valuable belt with its contents. I would sell
you just the belt for five silver pieces. To

"include the vials, and they do come as a set,
unfortunately, that would run you 275 gold pieces."

TALIESIN: Now, see, we don't know what kind of
healing potion that is, and those other two vials

could have-- there is an expiration date on those
things. And how long have you had it?

MATT: "We've had it for a number of years."

TALIESIN: A number of years? Well, in that case,
they've probably gone stale by now. I would say 75

gold at the very best.

MATT: (chuckles) "That is not going to work." She
reaches out and takes the belt away from you and

sets it back down on the inside.

TALIESIN: 75 gold will not do you for that, then?

MATT: "For the belt, maybe."

TALIESIN: For the belt, obviously. We've already
established that that's in the silver range and

certainly not touching the gold.

MATT: "Right, but you're willing to have and to
offer that 75 gold for it, please."

TALIESIN: 75 gold for the entire set.

MATT: "No, it's not going to work. I'm sorry."

TALIESIN: No, and of course that makes sense that
a hundred gold for that entire set would be very fair.

LIAM: I'm starting to take a nap against a column
standing up.

SAM: Just buy it.

TALIESIN: 100 gold. You've had it for so long.

MATT: Make a persuasion check.

TALIESIN: This is going to go terribly. Where's my
persuasion? Ooh, that's almost a number. Oh, good. 16?

MATT: She goes, "225 gold for the set."

TALIESIN: 200. And an acknowledgement and
compliment to your stunning hair. I'm attempting

to flirt very poorly.

TRAVIS: (laughing) That eyebrow.

MATT: Make a charisma check.

TALIESIN: Yes!

MATT: Just a straight charisma modifier to your
roll.

LIAM: Come on, snitch.

TALIESIN: Come on. 12.

LAURA: You flirted with grass better!

MATT: She goes, "I appreciate your patronage, but
I am a patient woman, and that is how I hold

"business."

(laughter)

TRAVIS: Stonewalled!

TALIESIN: Keyleth?

MARISHA: Yes?

TALIESIN: I feel like I should have learned some
sort of lesson here. I'm just not entirely sure

what it was.

MARISHA: Oh, you know--

TALIESIN: Hardly matters, I suppose.

MARISHA: Maybe you'll come to it at the end of
being in Ank'Harel.

TRAVIS: Hey, guys. I had a thought. You know we
were all supposed to have a meeting with the king?

And I haven't been paying attention if anyone's
watching, and we got time to kill. Should we go

have a talk with the big man?

LAURA: Or at least put in for an audience.

TRAVIS: Yeah. Who knows if they'll even get to us
today?

TALIESIN: I'm sobering up a bit. Which we should
probably do that.

LAURA: Does it seem like a long walk towards the
Cerulean Palace?

MATT: Maybe a 45-minute to an hour walk.

LIAM: We've got hours and hours before we have to
do anything.

TALIESIN: We do. It's 4:00 in the afternoon.

LAURA: What time's the sun set here? Can I ask
somebody?

MATT: You ask around. It looks to probably be
about four hours from sunset.

TALIESIN: Perfect.

SAM: All right. Fine. Let's go.

MARISHA: Plus, the best way to see a new city is
to walk, you guys!

TALIESIN: Wait, hold on. I have to open my
Pokémon.

MATT: So you guys are making your way towards the
Cerulean Palace. As you approach the large,

extremely imposing palace, you come upon what
looks to be an endless series of stairs that

brings you to the upper platform that is the
central portion of the city where the palace seems

to reside, eventually peaking in the Sandherald
district that you were referred to earlier as the

location of the palace and where the Bowl of
Judgment exists. You step up to the very top of

the stairs to find yourself already breathless at
the sight of the immense purple-blue-colored

palace. A dozen towers reach for the clouds, the
daylight peeking through their slightly

translucent material, like glassy waters
ever-frozen in a fall. The central tower, the one

that caught your eye, that ends in a large
cup-like position, rises above all of them with a

slight spiral-type texture to the outside of the
palace that is incredibly tall amongst the rest of

the cityscape.

As you get closer, you can see the main palace
structure presents hundreds of arches pointed at

their apex in its structure, smaller and smaller
as it recesses further into the palace. Its very

architectural build is a marvel, and seems to both
have consistency and a chaotic feel to the

placement of some of these arches too, in size.
It's a very strange but fascinating structure.

You can also see turquoise detailing and trim
against many of the pillars and carvings and

statues that adorn the exterior of the grounds of
this palace. As you approach what appear to be the

front gates that ascend, with a very bright blue
turquoise exterior, close to 50 Hands of Ord

patrol various elements of the grounds around it.
It looks like there are actual pockets of grass

and gardens that exist around the Cerulean Palace
in here. The topography changes almost to feel

like it belongs entirely anywhere but the middle
of the desert. The guards do eye you suspiciously

as you approach, and you watch as one armored
woman, her dark hair hidden mostly beneath an

ornate helmet of brass and blue, approaches you
guys. "Welcome to the Cerulean Palace. I must ask

"your business here."

LAURA: Forgive us for our intrusion. We come
seeking an audience of J'mon Sa Ord.

MATT: "Our emperor does not take meetings. My
apologies, but I must ask you to leave."

TALIESIN: We are, in fact, a group of ambassadors
from the continent of Emon, from the cities of--

MARISHA: Continent of Tal'Dorei, city of Emon. It
concerns the fate of the world.

MATT: Make a persuasion check.

MARISHA: Which one?

TALIESIN: Not that one. That one. See? Listen to
me. I'm not taking credit for that.

MARISHA: 23. No, 24.

MATT: 24. "Let me inquire with the Grand Maven."
She turns around, her armor clinking, and walks

back to the palace, leaving you guys there amongst
these courtyard grounds. A few moments pass before

she returns, the doors opening. As she descends,
next to her you see an older woman with these

long, ceremonial robes that drag behind her,
spilling across the stairs as she descends,

seemingly dozens of gemmed bracelets that jingle
as she walks with each step. She wears a tall

headdress with what looks like brass quills that press
behind her head and down her back. As she

approaches you all, the woman earlier that you
spoke to, the Hand that approached you, stays

behind quietly and watches, weapon at the ready.
The woman steps forward with a smile, and unlike

the abrasive appearance that most of the Hand have
given, she seems to be more welcoming, and gives, for the

first time since you've been here, a very formal
welcoming bow with her hand before her, the other

hand out. Says, "Be pleased, everyone."

ALL: Be pleased.

MATT: "I must apologize. We were not aware of your
arrival here. I am the Grand Maven Gameshega.

"Please, enter and follow me."

TRAVIS: She's the what?

MARISHA: Gameshega?

MATT, LAURA, and LIAM: Gameshega.

MARISHA: Gameshega?

MATT and LIAM: Gameshega.

TALIESIN: This is good. This is very good.

MATT: As she walks past you and the female Hand
that saw you earlier steps aside and watches you

as you pass, then ends up stepping behind you and
flanking, keeping a watch from the back as you

guys are led up the final staircase, through the
front turquoise gates of the Cerulean Palace, and

they close behind you with a resounding (impact),
the impact echoing through these long halls. From

the interior, massive pointed archways that lead
down ornately decorated halls that echo with each

footfall that hits across what looks like endless
white and black bespeckled marble.

She leads you through a series of hallways, more
Hands walking past, as well as a number of other

robed individuals. What appears to be a central
chamber that has a number of steps and seats,

where it looks like various philosophers are in
mid-heated discussion in once again, this same

language that you have not heard on your ears
before.

You are eventually brought to a very intricate and
decorated waiting room, with some finely

upholstered silk chairs, couches. The Grand Maven
stops. "If you would not mind, please have a seat."

TALIESIN: Of course.

SAM: Sure, yeah.

MATT: She walks into a nearby doorway. It looks
like a single door that leads into a small-looking room,

from the brief moment you have to see it. The door
closes and you hear a (magic sound). Two minutes

pass. Five minutes pass. Ten eerie, quiet minutes
pass.

TRAVIS: Windows in this room?

MATT: No windows in this particular room, but you
notice as you take a close look, the roofs, while

they are built of this deep blue, almost
glass-like thick crystal, they're ever so slightly

translucent, and it gives this general blue glow
about the entire room. You can't make out any

details from the outside, but there is this
strange translucence to the entire structure.

TRAVIS: Was that the only door to the room?

MATT: There is the hallway that you left behind,
but there standing in the doorway is the same Hand

that approached you guys and has been keeping an
eye the entire time.

LAURA: He's in the room with us?

MATT: Is away from you, standing in the large
archway hall that led you into this waiting room.

LAURA: I'm up and pacing the room, trying to pace
near the door that she went through so I can keep

an ear on the door.

TRAVIS: I walk up to the guard, and I say, sorry.
I really should have peed before I came in. Is

there a privy I could use?

MATT: She glances at you. "You look like a
strapping young man. Perhaps you can hold onto

"that for a time."

TRAVIS: It looks that way, but I also have a
strapping-sized bladder, and I've been known to

leave strapping-sized messes in corners. You see,
I don't really come from all this finery, so the

side of the wall is just as good with me. It's
just I'm trying to be polite.

MATT: She leans behind the hallway. (foreign
language) "Just a moment." Another guard walks up

behind and kicks a bucket into the room.

TRAVIS: That'll do.

LIAM: Put up or shut up.

LAURA: Can I hear anything from the other side of
the door?

MATT: Make a perception check.

TALIESIN: I'm laughing out loud.

SAM: One?

MATT: You have your ear up against the wall.

LAURA: I didn't want to have my ear against the
wall. I wanted to be subtly doing it.

MATT: Well, you're subtly doing it, and there's
nothing. You get closer and closer, and there's

nothing. The rest of you hear (magic sounds), but
you're still-- Eventually, the door opens again,

and there the Grand Maven stands again. She looks
up to the rest of you. "Come with me. You have

"been granted an audience." She steps back into the
chamber.

LAURA: That happened much easier than I expected.

TRAVIS: Thank you for the bucket. I'll hold it.

LAURA: Are you sure, Grog?

LIAM: We were convincing.

SAM: They must know who we are.

TALIESIN: Trust our luck. Our luck is going. I'm
walking into this.

SAM: Anyone says jenga, kill everyone we meet.

LIAM: It's the only plan we have.

TALIESIN: I'm walking into it.

MARISHA: Yeah.

MATT: You walk into what is a cylindrical chamber
of smooth blue-purple quartz-like material with

four strands of heavy chains taut between the
ceiling and floor, about 15 feet above you. No

other exit. You all enter and the door closes
behind you, the Maven still relaxing, her arms to

her side, her headdress still giving her this
ominous presence. Looks up, and there's a (impact)

shuddering sound. Suddenly, the bland,
uncharacteristic walls, compared to the rest of

the palace, begin to slide past the chains, now
making this rattling sound as the floor itself

seems to be lurching. You feel a bit of pressure
in the room that wasn't there before. You're all

being lifted, and the walls, now no longer walled
in by the rest of the palace, you can now see this

occasional traveling-down line as the spiral on
the outside of the tower you once saw now

surrounds you. The walls are much thinner than the
rest of the palace, as you can see through this

somewhat-translucent glass exterior the entirety
of Emon surrounding you from upon high as it goes

lower and lower as you're lifted higher and higher
into this tower.

LAURA: This is miraculous!

MATT: It's very off-putting, but beautiful at the
same time. Everything's seen through this

shimmering, somewhat-refracted blue passage. As
you go higher and higher, you can see the

countless homes, walls, and towers getting smaller
and smaller, other towers eventually ending as you

go higher in the tower. The Maven says, "I request
you do not touch the walls, please."

SAM: Okay.

TRAVIS: I really want to touch the walls.

MATT: The view reveals the entirety of the city
around you, and beyond that, the distant dunes and

the desert that seems to have no end. You view a
far-off mountainscape a little bit in the northern

direction that just begins to peek past your
view, then (boom) the floor ceases again. You all

seem to lurch for a moment, yourself, an inch
before you catch yourself on your feet. The Maven

catches herself, very used to this transition.

You now see behind her, where it has stopped,
there is another set of doors, similar to the ones

you entered from in the bottom portion of this
tower. The door opens, (creak) and you can see the

next room is a set of staircases of the same color
that slowly curl off and disappear upward above you.

"Please, follow me." She walks in, her robe
dragging behind her. You guys give enough berth

for it to follow. As you're led up the stairway,
choosing right or left, they both lead to the

upper platform in what is the top of the central
tower of the Cerulean Palace.

As you enter this room, you see close to a hundred
dangling silk tapestries from 50 or 60 feet up of

multitudes of different colors; rainbowscapes of
beautiful translucent cloths and silks, gently

flowing with breezes and mingling and mixing into
each other around the outside of the wall. High

arched windows on each side, and behind, what
looks to be a large opening reveals passing clouds

surrounding this height and obfuscating certain
portions as they meet with the height of this

tower's apex.

You see a large balcony from the opposite side of
the room that is opened from its own similar-sized

arch that extends outward. It has a railing
about four feet up that is an opening that

overlooks in open air all above the city to see.

In the center of the chamber, you see a series of
step-like platforms, circular, that rise up upon

each other, and in the center, you see what seems
to be a tall throne of bronze and sapphire that

probably sits ten feet up from the base. Thin, but
extremely long and widens towards the top. You can

see hundreds of sapphires put into and set into
this shiny, ruddy metallic material that frames

the entirety of the throne.

And there sitting atop this throne, you see a
slender, human-like entity wearing no jewelry, no

ceremonial adornments, no crown, just a simple
brown cotton shirt over simple, elegant pants.

Bare feet, no shoes. Androgynous and beautiful;
you're unable to make out the sex of this

creature. It's not a man, nor elf. Not fey, but
something somewhat alien, almost. The skin a

deep-set reddish brown, smooth and impeccable. The
features are extremely fine and delicate. The eyes

are what catch you: black like night, but the
pupils, burning points of molten metal. The entity

smiles and stands off the throne. Now, at this
height, seeing it standing almost as tall as Grog,

by comparison. The limbs are elongated. Extends a
hand towards you as you step into the chamber.

"Welcome to Ank'Harel, heroes of Tal'Dorei. I am
J'mon Sa Ord, and it is my pleasure to greet you."

And that is where we'll pick up our session in two
weeks.

LAURA: Oh shit, two weeks.

MATT: Two weeks.

MARISHA: Two weeks.

SAM: Wow, guys. We did a lot of strange things.

MARISHA: Yes, that was a weird day.

TRAVIS: It's the pharaoh king from Stargate.

MATT: Yeah. We have two weeks until we pick up
from that point in the story. Next week, look

forward once again to Liam running his awesome
one-shot.

LIAM: I've got a party planned for you!

MATT: It's going to be awesome. It's been fun. But
anyway, guys, thank you so much. Hope you had a

fun time. Much love to all of you in the
community. You're awesome; thank you so much for

your support. Thank you for supporting our
wonderful charities. 826 has been awesome, and

they keep showing up. We saw recently in Target
ads, actually, which is fantastic, so thank you

guys so much for keeping up with them. You can
still give them money. You can still support

826LA, as well as any of the other charities we
have listed in our Guide to Critmas on the

website. Those are great ways to give and great
ways to support all of these wonderful people out

there doing wonderful things.

TRAVIS: And thank you, Loot Crate.

MATT: And thank you, Loot Crate, for your support
of this show and support of our community, giving

them an awesome discount. However, most of us will
now adjourn to finish signing the posters

forever.

LAURA: Some of us are done.

TALIESIN: Some of us will be doing it until the
end of time.

MATT: Finishing for a lot of us.

TALIESIN: Are we finishing tonight?

MATT: Finishing this weekend, so they should be
going out soon to you guys. Thank you for your

patience. The first batch of posters are now out.
This batch will go out soon.

LIAM: The desert awaits, Matt.

MATT: The desert waits for us, and it is much
needed. Much love to you all. Have a wonderful

night, and is it Thursday yet?

[music]