MATT: Hello everyone, and welcome to tonight's
episode of Critical Role, where a bunch of us

nerdy-ass voice actors sit around and play
Dungeons & Dragons. We have a bunch of

announcements; try and get through them as fast as
possible. First and foremost, Taliesin Jaffe is on

his way, he's playing the part of Sam Riegel and
being late today.

SAM: Yeah. Clever.

MATT: But he'll be here shortly. And we do not
have a Travis Willingham tonight, unfortunately,

he is out of town shooting something pretty
awesome, so yeah, boo indeed. Not watching

Avengers this time.

LAURA: That was the only time he's missed.

MATT: That was the only time he's missed it, yeah.
And he was not happy. I know. He's like, why is

everyone else leveling and not me yet? Nah, sorry
dude. Anyway, so we'll miss you Travis, sorry

you're not here. Oh, it sounds like we have a
Taliesin. Get in there, Taliesin. We have two

sponsors--

SAM: Wait, what, Matt? Two sponsors?

MATT: What? Two sponsors. We're splitting this up,
is what we're doing. First, the new tonight-only

sponsor we have is Puzzle Quest, Magic Puzzle
Quest, actually. If you've watched any other

programs this week, Me, Marisha, Liam and Taliesin
all did a show that was on Tuesday. Before Talks

Machina. Game the Game, with Rebecca and Ivan,
where we played it, as well as a number of other

ridiculous games. But it's great, I grew up
playing Magic, it's very much a mutually--

SAM: Oh, Taliesin has it on his iPad right there!

MATT: There you go, and it's facing sideways. But
it's a puzzle drop game, but mixed in with the

mechanics of Magic. It's free, you can check it
out, and they're being awesome, sponsoring us

tonight. If you're into fantasy and that type of
three-match games, totally up your alley, and if

you click on the link in chat, which is
bit.ly/criticalquest and try the game out. That's

where you can go ahead and find it. So--

LIAM: You should totally play that during the
Thordak fight.

TALIESIN: This is my plan, while you guys are
doing your stuff, I'm going to be playing Puzzle Quest.

MATT: Oh and Taliesin, also I have left a sheet
there for your updated Cabal's Ruin.

MARISHA: Yeah, we have updated stuff.

TALIESIN: Wow, you nerfed me. Okay. I'm just
kidding.

MATT: No, in working on the campaign guide, and
the section about the Vestiges, while also seeing

how things played out through the game as we've
gone through, there's been a slight balance tweak

to a couple of them, most in your favor. Enjoy.

TALIESIN: I think you were giving me a little bit
of this drunkenly during Westworld, if I recall.

MATT: I think so, actually, yeah.

MARISHA: The main thing that has changed on the
Spire of Conflux is that I now gain plus one bonus

to spell attack rolls and my spell save DC
increases by one.

MATT: It's a benefit to you.

MARISHA: Yes it is.

MATT: It's a benefit to anybody who uses it in
their own home campaign, it is not just specific.

LAURA: And Fenthras is a plus five to attack? And
plus ten to damage rolls?

LIAM: 12 hours of wings, Matt? Thank you!

MATT: All the Vestiges suddenly turn to dust. In
your bag. And your tears.

LIAM: You have chosen poorly.

MATT: Exactly. So yeah! So aside from Magic Puzzle
Quest, we also have our secondary sponsor, Loot Crate!

SAM: You know, guys, I always do a little fun Loot
Crate thing, but this week I'm not going to be

doing the Loot Crate announcement. This week, my
new character that I've been workshopping, Brody

Slater! Of Malibu, California is going to be doing
the Loot Crate ad. I've been workshopping this,

I've been doing some acting coach work with it.

TALIESIN: How you never did a rhyme on SNL is
beyond me, man, I don't know how--

SAM: It's a showcase for Loot Crate, but it's also
a showcase for my acting.

(laughter)

SAM: Let me get into character real quick. Yo surf
bros and bunnies! December can be a mondo bogus

bummer! You want to lock in on a maxed out
cruncher, ride an outside breaker, shoot the curl

on an epic set, but you can't! It's too cold! The
beaches are blown out, the swells are glassy, and

you feel like you're getting a sand facial, like
some gremlin poser, amirite? Well not for long!

Get amped again with December's radical Loot
Crate. The primo duds'll get your heart beating

like a gnarlatious double spinner, toes on the
nose! The geeky gear will make you feel like

you're droppin' in on the wedge, pruning out at
Pendleton, or taking a face goofy-foot at Sano,

outrageous! So don't wipe out, sign up! For Loot
Crate! At lootrate.com/criticalrole, promo code

"critical role" for ten percent off your first
month. Bonzai! All right.

(cheering)

MATT: That's pretty good! A little Scottish at the
end, though.

TALIESIN: Somewhere in Topanga Canyon right now,
Dweezil Zappa is bleeding from the nose, going:

oh! What?! What?!

LAURA: That blonde hair did something for your
complexion, though.

TALIESIN: Yeah, no, you were glowing.

LIAM: No wonder you're in voiceover!

SAM: I mean, we're versatile actors, and I just
want to showcase that to the people!

MATT: I hope that's a sneak peek of your character
in the next campaign, Sam.

SAM: Definitely.

MATT: Thank you Loot Crate, thank you Magic Puzzle
Quest-- Check 'em both out, guys. Couple quick

announcements! Talks Machina will be up next
Tuesday, and every following Tuesday simulcast

both on Twitch and Alpha! So you guys can still
get a chance to watch it, the Alpha supporters

will still have all the access to it. It's going
to be awesome, glad you guys get a chance to

follow us along with that and to try out the
platform, and enjoy it on Twitch. So yay! So, next

Talks will have a couple guests, which you might
meet later on this evening, will be joining the next

episode this Tuesday at 7:00pm here and on Alpha.
You're welcome, Brian. Next up! Next Monday

December 12th, from 4:00pm to 6:00pm, there's an
extra special holiday season episode of Dick and

Johnson happening here. Dick and Johnson Save
Everything Ultra Holiday Special-- such a specific

title-- going to be a bunch of guests, including
Chloe Dykstra, myself, I will be showing up for a

little bit, with some ridiculousness in
characters, so you guys need to check it out if

you haven't already, it's-- how do you describe
the game? It's like a shark riding a reindeer

shooting a minigun, while waving an American flag
and playing D&D.

TALIESIN: That's a great tattoo.

MATT: That's a challenge to you guys. Show us your
pictures of your great amazing Dick and Johnson

tattoo. Wherever it may be on your Dick and
Johnson. But tune in next Monday, December 12th,

at 4:00 to 6:00pm, check it out, I'll see you
there. All right.

SAM: So many announcements.

MATT: I know! We're getting there, we're getting
there. New GM Tips came out today!

(cheering)

MATT: This week's topic is specifically on running
an evil campaign, and curbing modo-- herber--

murder herber-- murder hobo behavior in games.
Check out the good times. That's out now on

YouTube and the Geek and Sundry website. Also, at
the break today, we have a very special video from

our good friend Patrick Rothfuss and plays Kerr in
the world, as we're helping support his

Worldbuilders charity, which has been doing
amazing, gangbusters, and they're setting up a

specific Critical Role page on that, with a few
prizes that we're providing from our end as well

for people that enter and donate, that you can
win. So he's going to put together a video and

information about the page will be available very
soon. Go check it out, it's an amazing charity,

I've talked about it here before, and the money's
being matched, dollar for dollar, by a number of

corporations for everything you donate. So check
out the break for a special message from Patrick

Rothfuss.

LIAM: He's a good human being.

MATT: He's a good man. And he wanted to be here
tonight but he's unfortunately in a-- I say

unfortunately-- fortunately in a tux, at the, I
think it's the game-- what? The--

TALIESIN: Gamer's Choice Awards?

MATT: No no no no. Child's Play, I think, charity
event tonight.

TALIESIN: It's the gamer's Shorty Awards.

MATT: So the whole cha-- no, it's the charity!
It's all about charity, apparently. Speaking of

charity, we have the pleasure of once again, as a
fantastic example of this community that's sprung

up around this channel and this show, so many of
you guys have been so generous, and supporting of

all the charities we've spoken of, and other
charities you've gone on to find, we have one

amazing Critter who is here tonight, named Mark
Kuro, who has donated an amazing amount to 826LA

in the name of this show--

(cheering)

MATT: --and you guys, so say hello to Mark
everyone. Mark, I'm blown away by your generosity,

and I think it's a fantastic example once again of
the power of community that you've all put

together and helping support other people who
don't have the opportunity.

MARK: Well, and I also want to thank you guys for
the inspiration. I mean, you get to throw

inspiration dice around all the time, but when you
do it in the real world, it makes a big

difference. So I think 826LA is an amazing
charity, and I think I would do sort of a

Christmas Critter Charity Challenge, for all the
Critters out there at this time of year

especially, to go ahead and donate to your
favorite charity, donate to 826LA in the name of

Critical Role, and again, make a difference.
World's gotten a little wonky, time for love and

generosity is never better than now, so thanks
guys.

MATT: I completely agree. Thank you, Mark. Really
appreciate it, thanks buddy.

MARK: Kill the dragons, he's got to die!

LIAM: He said, he said, Mark said, he's got to
die. He's got to die, Matt, he's got to die.

MATT: Well, you know, maybe I gave you a damage bonus, I
don't know. Thank you, Mark.

MARISHA: And yeah, and as always, 826LA is
amazing, and there might be a local branch in your

city, I know there's one in San Francisco, I know
there's one in New York, I know there's one in

Chicago.

TALIESIN: You should totally check it out, you can
also-- they have web stores, and you should go

onto their web stores because there's a lot of
really good Christmas stuff that you can buy

that's fun and arty and poetry-ish, and kids
poetry that you can buy books of that's actually

really good, and it's a great Christmas gift, and
you're giving to a good cause. It's amazing.

MARISHA: Yeah, it's amazing.

MATT: Hell yeah. Oh, and I forgot to mention this
too, for the Talks Machina announcement too,

while it's remaining on Twitch, also they will have an
enhanced version on Alpha in the new year as well,

so you'll have that positive element of it, too,
and get to see what the platform is capable of

doing with that show. So. There you go. Spotify
playlists are still rolling out. We had Laura's go

up last Friday.

LIAM: It was so good, it was so good!

LAURA: Did you think so?

LIAM: I did, I liked it.

LAURA: Is it maybe because you had a song on
there?

LIAM: Well, that's part of it, but the whole thing
was pretty good!

LAURA: Thanks, bro.

SAM: It's all Debbie Gibson.

LAURA: You had a song on there, too, Sam.

SAM: I did?

LAURA: Yeah, I know you didn't listen to it.

SAM: No, I haven't. I will tonight. I'll go down
to Spotify, or Geek and Sundry, or wherever you

get them, and--

MARISHA: Did you ever listen to any of the first
playlists that we put out?

SAM: Of course I did! I listened to mine.

(laughter)

LIAM: You are on a show called Critical Role,
where a group of nerdy-ass voice actors--

SAM: My best friends, who I support, by showing
up!

(laughter)

SAM: No, I listened to them. I read your little
blurbs. I did, I did those things.

LIAM: Oh, I just got the Christmas spirit all up
in my heart. Nice.

TALIESIN: Let's get some seltzer, we'll get that
right out.

MARISHA: Thank you for your click on the Geek and
Sundry website, I guess!

TALIESIN: Just a click, not a like.

MATT: And, last--

TALIESIN: Who is the Spotify playlist this week?

MARISHA: You.

TALIESIN: Oh, it's me? Oh, that's great.

SAM: Have you done it yet?

TALIESIN: Yeah, I know I did it, I did do it--
It's good, it's good music.

LIAM: Sam will listen to it in five months.

MATT: Last but not least, me and Marisha are
guesting at MagFest in January, 6th to the 8th,

MagFest is one of my favorite events and has been
for many years, it's a video-game music festival.

We're going to have a bunch of panels over there,
and there's a bunch of great concerts and shows

going on, it's a general awesome, fun experience.
If you haven't been before, I recommend it, if you

have been, go again! We'll be there. Come and say
hi.

LAURA: There's also a couple more announcements.

SAM: More and more and more and more.

LAURA: I know, I know, but these are good. Well,
last weekend was PSX and there were a couple

awesome projects that were announced there, which
is the new Uncharted game! The Lost Legacy! What

what what! I play Nadine, what what what!

(cheering)

LAURA: And then, also announced at the same time,
was Last of Us 2, starring one Ashley Johnson, so

we're all very very very excited about it--

MATT: Our D&D show book-ended PSX, that's cool,
actually.

LAURA: Yeah, it was pretty frickin' cool. And
those are going to be a long time before they're

out, but you know, it's still really awesome. And
then! Finishing announcements tonight with some

special, special treats, which is--

MATT: I haven't even seen that.

LAURA: A Critical Role hat. Yeah, you've been in
here the whole time. This is out, in the store,

right now, as well as Critical Role dice! So, I
have heard tell that if you get these ordered-- if

you live in the United States, at least, I'm sorry
international Critters-- but if you live in the US

then you should be able to get these before
Christmas!

MARISHA: Yay! Stocking stuffers.

LAURA: Yeah, great stocking stuffers, great under
the tree presents too.

LIAM: This is a fine-ass baseball cap. On the
inside it says: How Do You Want To Do This? Oh,

and your head is so small, and my head is so
large.

MARISHA: And it's all embroidered.

SAM: And it's perfect for when we play all the
other Dungeons & Dragons Twitch shows in our

softball league!

LAURA: Right? So we have a certain amount. And I
by the way rolled these dice, before the show, and

I got a critical on my d20, so--

MATT: No guarantee.

LAURA: They're in the store right now. There's a
limited amount, obviously, like it always is, but!

As soon as they're gone we're going to order more.
But if you want 'em for Christmas, then you know,

probably get them soon.

MATT: All righty. I think that's it, right? Okay,
good. Wow. Front-loaded them this week. Thank you

for your patience, guys. It's all good! Good
announcements. Good things. Good holiday spirit

kicking forward. And in that same spirit of good
positive fun, let's bring it down here into the

current dramatic, rocketing conclusion of the
Chroma Conclave, for tonight's episode of Critical Role!

[dramatic music]

MATT: Welcome back, ladies and gentlemen.

SAM: A lot happened. A lot happened in that
break.

MATT: Apparently! I missed most of it.

LAURA: Pure chaos.

MATT: I'm so removed from most events at the
table before the game starts, I'm like: what

happened? What?

TALIESIN: Do you phase out so you don't hear the
terrible things we say?

MATT: No, I'm focused on the rest of the shit
that's happening tonight. Anyway. So, to get you

up to speed, our fantastic band of adventurers,
Vox Machina, had been battling against the Chroma

Conclave, a collection of evil, dangerous
chromatic dragons, led by Thordak, the Cinder

King, who has been reigning over their home city
of Emon for quite some time, terrorising the

community, and apparently slowly undergoing a
change based on the elemental stone that is

embedded in his body that once locked him into the
Plane of Fire. You've defeated most of the

dragons, and allied yourself with one of the only
remaining members, Raishan, the green dragon. You

guys have since acquired a number of allies, you
made your way to the Fire Plane to the City of

Brass, you returned to find Fort Daxio under
attack. You managed to defend it, you saved a few

friends, returned to Whitestone, and it seems like
everything is gearing itself towards the final

conflict in Emon, with Thordak the Cinder King.
Last we left off, you were meeting underneath

Whitestone at the ziggurat, with the current
standing council, the War Council, of both

Whitestone and this entire endeavor. You decided a
couple of people to come with you, and now is your

time to spend the next day or so wisely, as the
army from Fort Daxio and Syngorn will be arriving

at Emon by about sundown the following day. Your
airship was in transit to Daxio, and has been

rerouted to Emon as well. Everyone is converging
to the city. What do you want to do to prepare?

LAURA: Oh god, it's all happening!

MARISHA: Okay. They're all going to the city.

LAURA: So, what time of day is it right now?

MATT: Right now, I'd say about mid-afternoon.

MARISHA: Are we still down by the ziggurat?

MATT: Yeah, you guys just finished your meeting at
the ziggurat.

TALIESIN: I have some guns to repair, because
everything broke, and many of these things cost

money now.

MATT: Yeah.

SAM: That's small picture. We're big picture.

LIAM: How long is the trip, did we say? To get to
Emon from here.

SAM: Instant for us.

LAURA: Well, we have to go through a tree.

SAM: Or a teleportation circle.

LIAM: Then we're meeting with Dad?

LAURA: Yeah, he's marching to Emon right now.

MARISHA: Are we going to have a meeting spot
outside of Emon? We should probably have a plan.

TALIESIN: We should probably get close to
Greyskull and see if we can enter through the

tunnels.

LIAM: I think that's our way, yeah.

SAM: Yes, but we do have to rally with your pops,
and also didn't we cut loose 55 soldiers to wander

free in the desert from Daxio?

LAURA: They're meeting the other armies.

SAM: They're just going to form up?

LAURA: Trust in them. They're soldiers, they'll be
able to find their way.

SAM: Right. But can we scry and figure out where
this other army is? Maybe we'll go there? Or maybe

we should scry on our old keep and go there. Those
seem like two good locations.

TALIESIN: I think scrying on the old keep and then
letting everyone know-- we don't necessarily want

everyone arriving at the same place as well, as
long as there's a coordinated movement towards the city.

LAURA: They can all start attacking and we can
come in from the bottom.

SAM: Sure, but we've told the approaching army
nothing about any plan whatsoever.

TALIESIN: We can call them if we need to.

MARISHA: So we probably want different regiments
flanking the city in different areas?

TALIESIN: And then maybe the 50 men coming into
the sewers to fight.

LIAM: I feel like we want to catch up with our
father's army before they're anywhere near the

walls of the city, because, well, that'd be
stupid.

TALIESIN: We can go meet them if that's the next
move.

SAM: And strategize when we get there? Once we see
their forces, and what they have to offer?

MARISHA: Percy, do you still have that map of
Emon?

TALIESIN: Yes, somewhere.

LAURA: We should probably talk to Gilmore as well,
and let him know that he has to fucking join us.

MARISHA: That he drew the short straw. We
drew the short straw for him.

TALIESIN: We should also collect some other
allies, if we're going to head in this direction.

LAURA: Of course.

SAM: All right. Do you want to go talk to Gilmore,
Vaxy-poo?

TALIESIN: We're going to need a painter, you know
a painter, we should bring a painter with us.

SAM: A painter? To paint our exploits?

TALIESIN: Yes, to paint our exploits. You have
that portrait--

MARISHA: Once again, Percy, I feel like that's
small picture--

TALIESIN: Is it small potatoes? Is it really,
though?

LIAM: We could find a jeweller right now. If
that's what you're into.

SAM: I have a man at a casino that I really need
to get revenge on.

TALIESIN: You might as well get it all done now,
because you're not going to be able to do it later.

MARISHA: 24 hours left alive!

LIAM: Kynan? Kynan!

SAM: All right.

TALIESIN: But no, stock up on what-- again,
Whitestone doesn't necessarily have a lot for us

to gather--

SAM: But we should bring any potions. How we doing
on potions? Did you ever divvy up our last several

potions?

LAURA: I did divvy up our last potions, I feel
like it might be smart to get some more, but the

only place to really buy any is Vasselheim.

SAM: Is that true?

LAURA: I mean it's the only city still standing
that we have access to immediately. We don't have

a lot of time. The thing is, I feel like people in
Vasselheim said they would help us, but I don't

know how they'd get to Emon to help us in time.

SAM: I know, an airship! Oh shit, where's our
airship?

LAURA: It's on its way.

SAM: To where?

LIAM: Emon. To Emon.

SAM: Did we say Emon, or did we say Daxio?

MATT: It was on its way to Daxio--

MARISHA: They're redirecting to Emon.

SAM: Thank God. We're sending it to a dragon instead
of a fort on fire.

TALIESIN: It does have weaponry.

LAURA: Yeah. It's made to take on things attacking
it.

TALIESIN: It's designed to help keep him on the
ground.

MARISHA: Uh-huh, yeah, it's a giant balloon in the
air--

LAURA: It's not a balloon, actually--

TALIESIN: Well, no, it's a giant crystal. It's-- I
know I keep saying--

MARISHA: I always think of it as a high-tech
Hindenberg.

TALIESIN: I know. Please don't say that. That's
not funny.

LIAM: That's a metaphor for Vox Machina.

MATT: There you go. If there ever was one, yeah.

SAM: All right. Besides gathering our forces here,
gathering our potions here, and telling Gilmore,

where are we going? Let's put it to a vote, as we
always do, democratically. Grog?

MATT: "Yes?"

SAM: Grog, where would you like to go? To the army
waiting just outside of Emon, or to our old ratty

keep with nothing in it?

TALIESIN: "I'd like to go to the--" I don't know.

LAURA: I don't know what he wants.

MATT: Percy's getting a little strange off to the
side.

LAURA: Wait, Travis is watching, so he can just
text in, yeah. Grog is thinking about it. Grog is

thinking really hard.

MATT: He considers it for a second and goes,
"Whatever makes me kill things faster."

LAURA: That's good.

MARISHA: Wait, have we rested?

MATT: You did rest before coming here. You spent
the evening in Fort Daxio.

MARISHA: And then we teleported. No, Allura
brought us here.

SAM: Okay, putting it to a vote. Three choices.
Ready? To your dad, to our keep, or to Vasselheim.

I don't know why, but it's been mentioned.

MARISHA: Hang on, I can scry on our keep.

LAURA: Can't Allura send a message to them and let
them know what our plan is, and then we don't have

to actually bamf there?

SAM: We don't have a plan!

TALIESIN: Wherever we go, we can let everyone know
what the plan and where we're going is.

LAURA: I feel like what we need to do-- okay,
here's what I think our plan should be.

SAM: Lead us, O Mighty Vex.

LAURA: I feel like we should tell the armies
gathering to prepare to attack. We enter in where

the Clasp is; we come in from the bottom up.

SAM: So they're going to create a diversion for
us?

LAURA: Exactly. They take on the armies while we
head straight to Thordak.

LIAM: Dad creates a shit-storm at the wall, and we
take advantage of that chaos.

SAM: We have to communicate this to them.

TALIESIN: Easy to do. We just send a message.

LAURA: We could send a message, or we could bamf
there and then bamf another place. It seems a lot

of time wasted.

TALIESIN: Yeah, easier just to send a message.

MATT: Allura has been in communication and has
been the information hub between most of these

individuals.

LIAM: How long did we say before Syldor reaches
Emon?

MATT: By about dusk the following day.

LIAM: Dusk the following day. And you said
afternoon right now? So a little more than 24 hours.

TALIESIN: We can at least get into there and start
communicating with the Clasp.

MARISHA: We're not really in good standing with
them.

TALIESIN: I'm sure they'll be happy to see us,
regardless.

MARISHA: You think? I guess. Sure. It's like
seeing that person you hated in high school after

something terrible just happened. Happy for the
familiarity.

SAM: But now they're a little bit overweight and
they work in an Applebee's.

MARISHA: Sure, and it's a little gratifying?

SAM: Yeah.

LIAM: They can hate us, and we can deal with that
afterward, if there is even an afterward.

TALIESIN: They're businessmen; I doubt they hold
grudges.

LAURA: I'm sure they hold grudges.

TALIESIN: Not until after the dragon's been taken
care of.

LAURA: Then they'll make us pay?

TALIESIN: Yes. It's not profitable to kill us
before the dragon is dead.

LIAM: Also, somewhere in all this fracas, we need
you to take care of us with food.

TALIESIN: When it's time.

LIAM: Right, when is the time?

TALIESIN: I think once we're there.

MARISHA: It lasts for 24 hours.

LAURA: Before we head in.

LIAM: In the keep, for old time's sake?

LAURA: I don't think that's very smart.

TALIESIN: Or in the sewers, for old time's sake.

(laughter)

LIAM: I mean underneath.

TALIESIN: Hopefully, in the keep.

SAM: So we have a clear plan, then?

TALIESIN: We have a plan for dinner.

LIAM: There's no guarantees, Scanlan.

SAM: Where are we going? That's all I care about
right now.

LIAM: We're going to hell. Where do you think
we're going? It's going to be fucking awful.

You're probably going to be dead in 48 hours.

SAM: Yeah, but we'll be together, and I don't
think that I'll die.

LIAM: You're adorable.

TALIESIN: You're going to be in front, if
anything.

MARISHA: This is the worst of two extremes.

TALIESIN: You should scry on Greyskull.

MARISHA: Is anyone still there?

SAM: Last time I looked in, there was some
movement, or it looked like people had recently

been there.

MARISHA: Wasn't it Drexel? Dranzel?

SAM: Nope, they're off somewhere else.

LAURA: You said by sunset tomorrow is when they'll
be at Emon?

MATT: That's when they'll be there and ready.

LAURA: Okay.

MATT: If you want more information, you might have
to talk to somebody who has that information.

LAURA: Right. What we need to do is plan a time
that they start the attack.

SAM: Sure. We've got to get there first and suss
it out, too. We haven't done any recon. This army

of your father's, we have no idea how big it is,
if they have archers, if they have an elite SWAT

team task force--

TALIESIN: How do you feel that will affect our
plan?

SAM: If we know we have an elite SWAT team task
force, we can take them down with us into the

sewers!

TALIESIN: I can almost promise you they do not
have an elite SWAT team task force.

LAURA: They might have some stealthy--

TALIESIN: Some stealthy individuals.

MARISHA: We have friends of our own.

SAM: Also, if we do any recon, we might know that
oh, there's a big thing we need to have taken out

before we can even get in. What if our keep is
being surrounded?

MARISHA: Okay. Hang on. Let me scry on the keep.
This will answer plenty of questions, and then

we'll go from there.

LAURA: Scry away, Keyleth.

MARISHA: Did we leave Laina there? Did we leave
anyone there, or is it completely vacated?

LIAM: It was chaos when we left.

MATT: Yeah, it was absolute chaos. You pushed your
servants through. Your staff still currently

exists somewhere in Whitestone.

MARISHA: I can't scry on a building, correct?

MATT: Correct.

LIAM: We fought Vorugal and then high-tailed it
out of there; inside and gone.

MARISHA: I can't scry on a building.

TALIESIN: Can you scry on a plant?

SAM: Can you scry on a dead thing?

MARISHA: Can I scry on a plant?

TALIESIN: There is a tree.

MATT: Because you are a druid, being a
nature-based entity and it is a living

creature...

(laughter)

MATT: Don't steal my thunder!

MARISHA: One that I've had personal communications
with.

MATT: I would say, due to the fact that you are a
druid and nature is your basis, if it is a

specific plant-based entity that you are very
familiar with, sure.

SAM: Do we have anything like that at our keep?

MATT: You have a number of trees in the front; you
have the garden that you built in Sarenrae's

temple.

MARISHA: That's what I want to scry on. I want to
start there.

MATT: Okay.

MARISHA: You know how it's always, "you zoom in
really fast, and you zoom in really fast--" Can I

slow down?

MATT: It doesn't work that way.

MARISHA: I can't pull focus?

MATT: In theory, scrying is only supposed to show
you what's there. I narratively let a little bit

of a journey happen. You can't control the
journey, sorry.

SAM: DVR it.

MARISHA: It's the worst. Okay.

MATT: All right, so where are you doing the
spell?

MARISHA: Where?

MATT: Where are you doing your Scry ritual?

MARISHA: Not near the ziggurat, if we're still
there.

MATT: Right, so are you guys heading back to the
castle, then?

LAURA: Yeah, let's go to the castle.

MATT: While you guys are heading back to the
castle from underneath the tunnels, you are

briefly headed off by a familiar dwarven fellow in
robes and a crystalline staff: Elementalist Drake

Thunderbrand. "By the way, before you leave, we've
been working on a few things for you. They should

"be of assistance to you. Come find me in the
common room whenever you're ready."

SAM: Yeah, sure. Wow, fortuitous.

MARISHA: I like presents.

MATT: You head to your quarters to do the Scry
spell? Okay. Your vision clarifies on dark clouds.

Your vision sees a gathering of grayish mists, and
you slowly transition through them to see shapes

that are either extremely small or extremely
distant. Your vision begins to funnel through it

quickly, like you're passing over the edge of a
waterfall.

There's a rush, and you see, as the clouds
dissipate, a glimpse of the overhead of Emon. You

see the once-gleaming city of white across the
Bladeshimmer Shoreline pockmarked with black and

tall towers of curling black smoke. You see flames
that still burn unfettered, unstopped throughout

the town, and what looks from the distance like
small clouds of gnats or flies that you realize

are much larger flying entities doing small passes
over various neighborhoods to keep watch or find food.

Your vision jumps again, this time careening down
even faster. Below, you can see, from an overhead

view, Greyskull Keep. You begin to rush in that
direction, and as it gets closer, you can see the

same damage it took from the wall from the initial
attack of the Conclave. You see elements of rubble

around the outside, though it's still pristine,
being repaired by the celestial entity that was

summoned by Pike shortly after.

Your vision jumps again, this time through the
repaired stained-glass exterior of the temple of

Sarenrae, and it comes to rest there in a moment,
amongst the strangely contrasting, peaceful

greenery of this temple. There's such a sense of
hopelessness and horror on the outside of the

city, this one little moment of time here is
almost like a time capsule of how things were

before. It's sad, but hopeful at the same time.

As your vision swivels over to the tree, there in
the temple, while contained here for as long as

it's been, it seems to be healthy. Looking in the
vicinity, most everything seems in place.

MARISHA: Do the trees look overgrown? Do the
plants look overgrown?

MATT: As much as being away for the handful of
months that you have been. They look like they

haven't been trimmed or tended to recently.

MARISHA: And the temple is intact? It looks like
the keep is still intact from where we rebuilt it?

MATT: Correct. It has not fallen.

MARISHA: Do I sense any movement?

MATT: Make a perception check with disadvantage
through your Scry spell.

TALIESIN: No, I can't help. Yeah, no.

MARISHA: I rolled two ones. Both ones. I'll say
that's just flushing it out.

MATT: Strangely, somehow through a Scry spell,
something got in your eye in the temple.

MARISHA: I hate it when the VR goggles short out.

(laughter)

MATT: You don't know if it's divine energy
interference or what, but it stings a lot, and you

feel the essence of the spell begin to shiver and
quake, and as you try and clear your vision

through, it remains blurred.

MARISHA: Shit.

MATT: You're still there; your presence is there,
but you don't have the capability of seeing

anything beyond the tree you're focused on. The
Scry spell is focused on the tree, and everything

around it has this hazy fog-of-war feel about five
feet beyond it.

SAM: Good scry.

MARISHA: Good scry, guys. Good scry.

LAURA: What did you see? Anything good? Are we
safe?

MARISHA: It's still standing, for the most part. I
saw Pike's-- wait, her celestial being wasn't

still there.

MATT: No, it was temporarily summoned for the
reconstruction of the ceiling portion.

MARISHA: Looks okay. Looks like home.

LIAM: Still standing? There wasn't anybody around
it?

MARISHA: I couldn't tell.

SAM: How's my comic book collection? Is it still
there?

MARISHA: Burned.

TALIESIN: Mint in box.

LIAM: That's as close to a guarantee as we're
going to get.

MARISHA: I told you to get a fire box.

LAURA: Do you think Drake would join us?

SAM: Who? Little guy? I'd like to be the shortest
on this trip, please.

LAURA: Got it.

LIAM: You are.

SAM: Oh.

MARISHA: Where's Kash?

LAURA: And Zahra?

MARISHA: Kash was really mad at us last time we
talked to him.

LAURA: So maybe we shouldn't ask him.

TALIESIN: Let's not.

MARISHA: I talked to him last time.

LAURA: I don't even want Kash to come. I don't
even want him around.

SAM: When we walk near his residence, let's walk
around.

LIAM: That guy is a badass motherfucker, and we do
want him.

SAM: I know why you want him to come.

LIAM: Well, he's got those brown eyes.

LAURA: No, he's got one brown eye and one blue
eye, I think.

TALIESIN: We are this loopy because we're
genuinely terrified, and we're doing everything

we can not to go.

LIAM: It's called gallows humor.

LAURA: I'm going to go ask Zahra if she'll join
us. Can I go talk to Zahra?

MATT: Sure.

LIAM: I'll go find Shaun, after her.

MARISHA: You guys are forcing me into going and
talking to Kash, aren't you?

LAURA: Scanlan can ask him. It doesn't have to be
you.

MARISHA: Scanlan?

SAM: Would you prefer me to go? We do have a
rapport.

LAURA: I do want to ask Jarett to come too,
though.

SAM: Oh, I need to go see Jarett.

(laughter)

SAM: You're on Kash duty, Kiki.

LIAM: Scanlan, do you need a little resolve for
this fight?

SAM: I just want to see Jarett. He's our most
solid ally, and most dependable friend.

LIAM: There's no other reason?

SAM: He's been there for us in our time of need.

LIAM: Still no other reason?

SAM: I feel like it would be a big pick-me-up to
see him.

(laughter)

LIAM: Solid. You do that.

TALIESIN: I'm going to talk to Cassandra about one
last dip into the vaults to see if there's any

potions. We know we have to leave them with
something in case everything goes wrong, but

anything we can take with us will be helpful, and
then I have to fix this giant mess of parts that

are currently in my bag. I may need to spend a
little money. I do apologize.

LAURA: Darling.

TALIESIN: Okay, just letting you know. It might be
a bit expensive to get everything working again.

LIAM: Percy, spend it all.

TALIESIN: I will not spend it all. I promise.

LAURA: I gave an entire bag of jewels to a random
efreet.

TALIESIN: That was brazen, yes.

MARISHA: We got armor out of it, though. It's not
like we didn't get something from it.

TALIESIN: If anyone asks about the plan, the plan
is chaos, if everyone agrees with this. We want to

break up their forces as much as possible. We want
them sending ten percent of their forces to every

edge of the city. They know where we're going;
they know we're eventually heading to the center,

and he's not going to leave anymore, but we're
going to make it very difficult for them. They're

either going to be fighting us in every corner, or
they're going to be letting the entire city fall

back to us.

LAURA: I'm going to go find Zahra.

SAM: Splitting the party five ways.

MARISHA: I go find Kash.

MATT: Okay. Vex, as you progress up to the
secondary floor to the outside of Zahra's room,

the door is closed.

LAURA: Zahra, dear?

MATT: Zahra, you hear a knock at your door.

MARY: Hello?

(laughter)

MARY: What is it, darling? I'm trying to sleep.

LAURA: Oh!

SAM: This is where the live studio audience is
supposed to applaud.

(laughter)

MARISHA: You had one job, pit crew.

TALIESIN: You had five jobs--

MATT: You had 12 jobs, pit crew.

MARY: Anything in my eyes?

LAURA: Not much time to sleep, I'm afraid.

MARY: Unfortunately, I've been buried in books.

LAURA: Yes, and plans are moving ahead much
faster than we anticipated.

MARY: First off, I heard word about a white
dragon. Sister killer!

(laughter)

MARY: Yes, we have to go get tattoos. Tell me,
what's the news? Catch me up.

LAURA: We're marching on Emon tomorrow.

MARY: Oh! I was going to get my hair done. All
right.

LAURA: That's how it is. All the way.

MARY: I haven't heard much. I've been reading,
I've been decorating, and I've been enchanting and

making things. Tell me, what's the news with
Thordak?

LAURA: Well, he's terrible. He's even worse than
we thought. Armies are marching on the city, and we plan

on coming in from underneath, maybe striking at
him where he doesn't realize. And we'd like your

help, if you're willing.

MARY: I don't think so. Oh, all right. Yes, I'd
love to. I would love to. I've been craving dragon

meat since Rimefang, so yes.

LAURA: I don't know if we'll succeed, and I'm sure
we won't all make it out alive. It's a big ask.

MARY: (sighs) Isn't death supposed to be a
wonderful adventure, as well?

LAURA: I think so.

MARY: Fuck it.

LAURA: Fuck it.

MARY: Fuck it. Durr 'n' durr. Fuck it. Let's
do it. Yeah, all right. I've been

sitting for too long; I need some action.

LAURA: Did you make any dragon arrows?

MARISHA: Buy her a drink first.

MARY: I'll get back to you on it.

LAURA: I plan on it. So many drinks.

MARY: What next? What do we do?

LAURA: We prepare tonight, and we leave tomorrow,
I assume. You know us; we don't have a plan,

really. I have no idea what's going on. Be
prepared.

MARY: Isn't that the secret to adulthood, that we're
all winging it? Yes, all right. Good.

LAURA: I'm glad you're joining.

MARY: Darling, I'm with you wherever you go.

MATT: With your recently joined into your crusade
tiefling ally, you go to gather the rest of your party.

Who's going to Kashaw?

(laughter)

TALIESIN: Kiki, what are you doing?

MATT: You take a long, slow, careful walk down
through town to the guard barracks.

MARISHA: I try not to step on any cracks in the
sidewalk on the way. It's very important.

MATT: It's a warmer and more humid day than you're
used to in Whitestone. A couple of insects are out

and about. There's a lot of aspects of Whitestone
that you're noticing for the first time, because

you really want to focus on anything else, and yet
suddenly, without warning, you stop and realize

you're standing right outside of the barracks. You
see that recently there had been a finished

training session with the up-and-coming guard, and
there, sitting off to the side, partially

armored and currently sharpening the edge of his
spear, is Kashaw.

MARISHA: He's on the outside? Oh shit.

MATT: And he's watching you.

(laughter)

MATT: Kashaw?

SAM: Ladies and gentlemen.

(cheering and applause)

MARISHA: I drop to one knee and start tying my
boot. I start retying my shoe.

WILL: You're five feet from me. Am I not supposed
to see that?

MARISHA: Oh my god! Kash! Whoa, I didn't see you
there.

WILL: Really? Interesting. It was the looking at
me that threw me.

MARISHA: Sorry, I've had something in my eye ever
since this scrying spell earlier. Shit's been

blurry. Yeah, no. You're clearly in focus now.

WILL: Okay.

MARISHA: Hi. Hey, how's it going, man?

WILL: Everything's been great. Life's been
awesome. What can I help you with?

(laughter)

MARISHA: Okay, Kash, I'm sensing a little bit of
underlying aggression.

WILL: Really? It's underlying?

(laughter)

MARISHA: Okay, look. I know we fucked you. Look.

WILL: Why don't you send me out to get some milk
and go save the world while I'm out there doing

that? What's up there, lady? What? What do you
want? Speak!

MARISHA: (stammers) I'm trying to think of what to
say. Please help us! We're going to die, and we

need you. I'm sorry!

WILL: I've got nothing to that. Help you what,
first of all.

MARISHA: Okay, you know how we've been hunting
down those dragons?

WILL: I vaguely remember it, yes.

MARISHA: We've been doing an okay job, because
we've killed a few, but now there's the big one

that's left, Thordak, and then we might be working
with the one that killed all my people, if you

remember that there was one that killed them, so
now we're working with her, and we're gathering an

entire army, and we need as many talented and
charming and gifted people that we can get, so I

thought-- I'm really sorry we made you be an errand
boy. I didn't vote for that, by the way. I was

trying to--

WILL: Keep babbling. This is fun.

LAURA: I'm sweating for her.

(laughter)

SAM: This is just how the Patrick Rothfuss
conversation went.

MARY: This is how it's going to go with you and
Jarett.

WILL: Why should I help you? Give me one reason.

MARISHA: Why did you bring back Vex?

WILL: Because I thought Vax would kill me if I
didn't.

MARISHA: Maybe Vax will kill you if you don't help
us.

WILL: Now I'm not really that scared of him.

MARISHA: That's not true. You did it because
you're a good person. You ultimately want to see

change in the world. I know you do. And I know you
care, even though you pretend like you don't. So

that's why.

WILL: In all fairness, dragons bring change.

MARISHA: Kash, that's not the type of change--
there are better ways to bring change than through

death and destruction.

WILL: Who else is helping you?

MARISHA: Everyone, and then Zahra.

WILL: Z? I'm in. Where is she?

MARISHA: Wow.

WILL: Let's go. Where is she?

MARISHA: Should have led with that. All right,
let's go. This way. Glad I spilled my soul and

everything, and I just splashed coffee in my face. Come
on, Kash. Come on!

WILL: On my way. Let's go.

MATT: All right, as you gather your implements
of war and your supplies you may need for

this journey, you two head back to the castle, a
nice, solid six feet between you as you walk.

WILL: I'm hitting the wall constantly over here.

LAURA: I can't scooch any more!

LIAM: You don't have any guests over there.

MARY: We got it!

WILL: You comfortable over there?

MARY: You got enough room, Sam?

TALIESIN: We're working on getting a bigger cup.

MARY: There's no swiveling.

SAM: I'm going to give a seat just to my cup,
because we have the space here to do it.

LAURA: We're turning into one person.

MARY: The twinsies will finally be conjoined.

LAURA: Sorry.

MATT: Scanlan, you are off looking for Jarett. Go
ahead and make an investigation check.

SAM: 18. 28.

MATT: 28. All right. You know exactly the type of
people that he talks to. Because he's been put in

this position of power within the guard hierarchy
here in Whitestone, within the Pale Guard, there's

really only three people that he hangs with. One
of them's Kashaw. One of them's a guy who you

never remember the name of, who's fun. That's the
guy you're going to go bother. You go and talk to

him for a bit, and he points to one of the few
currently functioning, non-destroyed taverns in

Whitestone. There you find him sitting there
drinking alone; not heavy drinking, in his cups,

but staring off at the wall and sipping a midday
ale.

SAM: Friend Jarett.

MATT: "Ah. It is good to see you alive and-- right.
Hi."

SAM: Just coming to check on my main man J-money.
It's J, right?

MATT: "It is, yes. Otherwise, it would be
Garett."

SAM: You're right.

MATT: "I'm good. I'm a little nervous, to be
honest. I like to shoot things from a wall. I

"don't like to go through a wall to shoot things,
and that's been happening a lot recently, and from

"what I've been hearing, tomorrow is looking to be
a very big day."

SAM: Well, it's going to be quite a fight. Can we
count on you to come with us, perhaps?

MATT: "I'd assume that would be the case. I would
not want to have all of you disappear into

"darkness and fire without me yelling behind you,
'don't die!' I figure that's the very least I

"could offer for this circumstance."

SAM: We would be honored to have you with us, and
as you are still technically our employee,

there'll be a bonus for you at the end of it.

MATT: "Another bonus?"

SAM: Oh. Yes. I wasn't aware there was a-- yes.
Two bonuses.

MATT: "Oh yeah, there was like four bonuses."

SAM: You deserve all of them.

MATT: "Damn right."

SAM: The other thing that we had talked about, did
that ever come to fruition?

MATT: "No, it was unfortunate. You see, my sister
is engaged recently--" And he stands up and walks

out of the tavern, putting a coin down on the
front of the bar. "No worries. I'll find you

"another lady." And he walks outside.

SAM: Oh. Oh, we're speaking in code. Okay. Yes, I
need a lady so bad, and you were going to find me

a date.

MATT: "You're so much better at this when other
people are involved. Why are you so bad when it's me?"

(laughter)

MATT: He goes outside and guides you into a shaded
portion of a nearby alley and leans against the

wall, waiting for you to follow in.

SAM: So. Is she a brunette?

MATT: "We're out of the tavern."

SAM: Okay. I don't know how long to keep the cover
going.

MATT: "It's fine. Look, it is very difficult to
find anything right now, the way things have been.

"But I did manage to scavenge a little bit of
suude."

SAM: Suude?

MATT: "Yes." And he pulls out a small brown pouch,
maybe about the size of a d20, really. Like a

little nugget there, and it's tied tightly, and he
pockets real fast. "Now, don't ask me again to do this."

SAM: Wait, are you a cop? You have to tell me if
you're a cop. Are you a cop?

MATT: "No."

SAM: Okay, good.

TALIESIN: That's a myth, for the kids at home, by
the way. Just want to get that out there. Sorry.

Can't fill their heads with bad ideas. Carry on.

WILL: Kids arrested all over town tonight.

TALIESIN: Are you a cop? No?

SAM: All right. How much do I owe you for this?

MATT: "No, don't worry about it. Simply the bonus.
Whatever you feel you owe me for it. But not

"again, please. It's harrowing."

LIAM: Heroin?

MATT: "Harrowing. It was harrowing to acquire this
for you."

SAM: Jarett, thank you for this. Thank you very
much. And I'm cool and all, but do you put it up

your butt, or snort it, or do you burn it somehow,
or wrap it in something, or eat it? I'm pretty

cool, but--

(laughter)

OFF-SCREEN: Ha!

(laughter)

MATT: He leans in really close, one eye
half-squinted, going, "I will never understand

"you, Scanlan Shorthalt. You're a smart boy. How do
you think you use it?"

SAM: In a pipe of some sort?

MATT: "Sure." And he walks out of the alleyway,
really embarrassed that he even did this. The

minute you said that, he was like, oh no, I just
bought beer for a 12-year-old. He's like, ooh.

TALIESIN: I'd like to think that "ha!" was passing
that guy coming out of the pub, and getting a

second--

SAM: All right, when you get her number, call me
or whatever, so we'll meet her later.

MATT: He walks away and puts his hand up with a--
and keeps walking. You can almost see the hanging

head shake as he continues back towards where he
was in the tavern.

SAM: That went well.

TALIESIN: That went very well.

SAM: I got that.

TALIESIN: You did that.

SAM: I did it.

MATT: (laughs) Mark down one small pocket satchel
of suude. S-U-U-D-E.

LIAM: That's for after the dragon.

LAURA: It's his own drugs. He's made his own drugs
up.

TALIESIN: Here you go. Right there.

MARY: He made drugs?

LAURA: Well, Matt made drugs.

TALIESIN: Put a glove on if you're going to get
high if you hold it for too long.

MATT: There is a society out there. People are
going to continue to find ways to smoke, swallow,

or inhale substances.

WILL: Definitely not a cop.

MATT: Definitely not.

WILL: Definitely not a cop.

MARY: Sometimes you ride the dragon before you
kill it.

WILL: (laughs) Exactly.

TALIESIN: Got to ride the dragon before you ride
the dragon.

MARISHA: That's right.

MARY: You've got to ride the dragon before you
kill it.

WILL: That's right.

MARY: It's going to be great to watch Scanlan take
drugs.

(laughter)

MATT: How do you think herbalists of previous
generations found out which plants are poisonous?

Huh? That's bad.

(laughter)

MATT: It's culture, man. All right, Percy, we need
to make some checks for you.

TALIESIN: Actually, do I have to check even if I'm
spending money?

MATT: You're spending money to fix it, but--

LAURA: How much money are you spending?

TALIESIN: How much do we have? Sorry, I'll stop.

LAURA: You tell me what you need.

TALIESIN: We'll find out.

MARISHA: You're the prince of Whitestone. Can't
you tap some taxes or something?

MATT: You could, actually.

TALIESIN: I really try not to do that. That's a
dick move. People are already iffy on these

things, I imagine.

LIAM: Spend everything right now.

TALIESIN: Wow! That made five decisions and landed
on a really good one. That's 28.

MATT: Okay, yeah. This is for Bad News?

TALIESIN: Yeah, Bad News is the only one that is
broken. The rest survived.

MATT: Yeah, that's fine. For Bad News, the
original cost I have here... sorry, have to pull

up the PDF to remind me, so I get it right.

LIAM: Two electrum.

MATT: (laughs) I'd put it about at maybe 500 gold
worth of materials.

TALIESIN: Oh! Okay. Feel better about that.

MATT: It's not a magical implement, 
but it is expensive.

TALIESIN: It is. It's got a lot of moving parts.
And then I'm going to go and talk to Cassandra,

quickly.

MATT: All right. As you make your way to try and
find Cassandra, she is actually currently in her

room talking with Allura. Talking with Gilmore,
with Brom and Drake. There's guards rushing in and

out. There's a general sense of ramping energy, as
everyone is gathering everything they have at

their disposal in preparation for what's going to
happen tomorrow.

MARY: Where's Raishan?

MATT: (laughs) You can go look for Raishan, if you
like.

MARY: No, I just wanted to know.

MATT: You don't know where Raishan is right now.
As you enter the room, over in the corner,

mid-conversation, Cassandra is currently rolling
up some papers and handing them to a guard. Turns

and finishes a quick bit of conversation
whispering off to the side with Drake. Turns

around and her eyes meet you and she goes,
"Brother."

TALIESIN: My lady.

MATT: "Yes. What can I do to help you?"

TALIESIN: We're preparing to leave. We are
preparing to have a small strike force go

underneath the city and do what we can while the other
armies hopefully distract, thin the forces and

give us a shot at taking care of this once and
for all.

MATT: "Right."

TALIESIN: Is there anything left in the vaults,
potion-wise? Especially healing potions. We don't

want to drain you, obviously, but I thought I
would make one last push.

MATT: "We've provided what we can. Drake, and a few
of our helpful supporters here in the city have

"been providing for this purpose. It's not much,
but we do have--" and she snaps her fingers and

points to Drake.

You see he's currently putting together a big
leather package. "Oh! No worry." And he lifts it up on

the table. You hear the clanking of glass around
on the inside of the satchel. He pulls it down a

little bit over the front, pushes to the side and
you can see there are two cushioned racks that

contain various sizes of vials. "All right, we've
got three greater healing potions, one basic

"healing potion. That's as much as we can find, to
be honest right now. There hasn't been a lot of

"trade, and our supply's been limited, and most of
what we had has been used by you or folks here in

"defense of the city."

LAURA: You said one basic?

MATT: "One basic. Yeah, regular healing potion.
However, I've spent my time, knowing what's

"coming, and being a focuser of the elemental arts,
brewing a few helpful bits here. I wish I had more

"time, but our timeline has been a bit
accelerated."

He pulls out the second cushioned grouping
here. The vials are different shapes. It seems

like the glass has been scavenged from what was
available, but the coloration is similar, and you

recognize these. You've had these before. These
are four potions of fire resistance.

SAM: That's huge.

LAURA: That's great.

MARISHA: That's massive.

TALIESIN: We will be grateful for you till the end
of our days.

MATT: "Oh, I count on it."

TALIESIN: It may only be a day, but you will have
it.

(laughter)

MATT: "Just remembered for these in particular,
they don't last a terribly long time. One hour.

"Make sure you don't drink it too soon."

TALIESIN: One hour will be all that is necessary.

MATT: "I certainly hope so. So. That's what I am
able to provide for this. I'll be there helping

"with some of the distraction, so we'll figure out
some of the details for the specific attack, but

"we're pulling all that we can for this, and we'll
figure out who's going where, who's attacking when

"and in what way, I guess, if not tonight,
tomorrow." And he looks over to Cassandra and

nods. "I'm going to go pray." He leaves the room.

LAURA: Can I ask a question?

MATT: Yes.

LAURA: With potions, do they stack? Can you take
multiple ones and get multiple benefits, or is it

like you take one potion and that's the one potion
you get to take?

MATT: I mean, if they're different types of
potions, I'd say they could stack, to a certain

degree. If you just begin to chug four potions
in a row I might be asking for some constitution

saving throws.

TALIESIN: Or like a mixed drink, that can get
weird, right?

MATT: Yeah. Things might not--

MARY: Long island ice tea of death.

MATT: Yeah, exactly. Some effects might not mingle
well or the urge from your body might reject that

much ingestion of enchanted fluid.

LAURA: Okay. Cool. Just checking.

MARISHA: Don't mix your darks with your clears--
Pick one.

MATT: Don't eat the giant toenail at the bottom
of the bottle.

TALIESIN: Water breathing before fire, never been
higher.

(laughter)

TALIESIN: Exactly. I think that was the-- Yeah.

SAM: True.

MATT: Anything else?

TALIESIN: I'd like to just grab Cassandra really
quickly and take her aside.

MATT: Okay. "Yes, brother?"

TALIESIN: I will only take one moment of your
time. I've not had a moment to repay you for my

part in all of this yet, and if we survive, I owe
you much. And if I don't, seal off the city. There

is room underneath. Prepare for siege. Prepare to
be a safe haven. Do not be-- do what you can to

save the city. Do not get involved in the
aftermath of this if we fail.

MATT: "That's actually what I'm discussing with
Allura, and the reason she's staying back is to

"help us continue should such an occasion arise.
But I am confident, knowing what you're capable

"of, that we worry for naught. We're doing our best
here, and I know you are doing your best there.

"Just come back to me."

TALIESIN: I will do my best. We've-- for
centuries, you must know we have survived as

realists. And it is very hot down there and I do
not like it. Good luck, see you soon.

MATT: "I need you. Return."

TALIESIN: I shall. And I go pack.

MATT: Okay. As you leave, Vax crosses you in the
doorway, as Gilmore is in mid-conversation. Right

now with-- well, it was with Drake and then when
he'd had the conversation, he watched and Drake

left and so he was on his way out following
Percival. And you caught him.

LIAM: Can I steal you for a second?

MATT: "Certainly."

LIAM: Over here.

MATT: "All right."

LIAM: Hi, again.

MATT: "Hi."

LIAM: Remember how we just saw each other a couple
of days ago, and I tried to say goodbye, and you

told me to promise you that I would see you
again?

MATT: "Yes. And much to my delight, you've kept
your promise. And you better keep keeping it."

LIAM: You know what would help with that? Boy,
have I got an offer for you. You want to help us

save the world? My family and I, we're going to
him. And I wasn't sure the path that would take us

there. I thought we might be on our own. But we're
back here. And you are easily the most impressive

arcane user I've ever met in my life. And I want
us all to still be breathing in a week. I can't

think of anyone better to stand with us than you,
Shaun.

MATT: His eyes look off for a minute. And he
reaches up and rubs the back of his neck, and you

can see there's still a scar there. He goes, "If
I'm to be honest, I've felt a bit useless here in

"Whitestone for quite some time. I was there when
this all began. It destroyed not just the thing

"I've been working to build for so long of my life,
but friends, home, for all of us. So it is my just

"honor, and vengeful glee, to join you on the siege
to Emon, if you will have me?"

LIAM: I grasp him by the back of the head.
Gesundheit. I'm so glad to have you with us,

friend. So glad.

MATT: "Just stay alive. Keep that promise."

LIAM: It will be a little bit easier now.

MATT: "Good." And he smacks you on the cheek.

LIAM: Good time for a musical quote.

ALL: (singing) Stay alive.

MATT: He smacks you on the cheek and goes,
"Learned that from you. All right then, I guess

"I've got to gather my supplies and-- Oh, it's been
a while since I've seen some-- I've never

"actually seen combat on this scale before when,
you know, I wasn't just trying to run away? So

"let's see if I can knock off the old dust."

LIAM: I'm sure it will be glorious.

MATT: "Oh, I can guarantee it."

MARISHA: Plug.

MATT: "All right."

LIAM: Let's do it.

LAURA: I'm wondering if we should eat a Heroes'
Feast tonight, and then just eat one again

tomorrow? 'Cause we just don't know what's going
to happen during the day anymore. Just a Heroes'

Feast every night. Be ready, and just, you know.

SAM: Yep. Do we have the money for that?

LAURA: It's, yeah. We're fine.

SAM: All right.

TALIESIN: I was looking forward to a Heroes'
Brunch, personally.

LAURA: Either one.

SAM: Bagels and lox?

MATT: Heroes' High Tea.

MARY: Eggs Benedict with lots of extra
hollandaise.

TALIESIN: Capers of might.

MATT: What else do you guys wish to prepare, if
anything?

LIAM: Holy shit, man!

LAURA: We have our potions. Should we split them
up?

SAM: Who needs fire giant, I mean fire resistance,
the most?

LAURA: Okay. We have five potions of fire
resistance.

SAM: We do?

LAURA: Yes, because we already had one. Now, we
have two superior, five regular healing, and three

greater. What we also have is a potion of
invulnerability, which is clutch, and a potion of

speed. We need to decide who to give the potion of
invulnerability to, because it lasts for ten

minutes?

MATT: No, one minute. I'm pretty sure, I'll check,
but that's a powerful-ass potion.

LAURA: You can't die, right, when you take it?

MATT: You wish!

LAURA: I mean, can you take damage when you've got
it going? It's like a minute of no damage?

MATT: You take damage, you have resistance to all
damage, so all damage you take is halved.

MARY: Should that be decided mid-battle? Clutch.

SAM: That one seems like a specific task.

LAURA: That's a specific task kind of thing. So
we'll decide that later?

TALIESIN: There is an item. And I'm currently
holding it, and I don't know if I'm the best

person to be holding this. But I'm just going to
pass this down the line to see if anyone has an

opinion.

MARISHA: It's the sword.

LIAM: This is too bad, I can't wield this fucker.

LAURA: I can't wield a sword either.

TALIESIN: It's a dex-based sword, correct?

MATT: The Sword of Dragon-Slaying?

TALIESIN: Yeah. Or it can switch.

MATT: I'm allowing it to switch if need be.

TALIESIN: So it can be strength- or dex-based.
Maybe this is the thing to hand to Grog. And one

minute of invulnerability with that is possibly
the cruellest thing that dragon will have ever

experienced.

LAURA: The thing is, if he's raging, I don't know
if he'll think to switch over.

TALIESIN: Well, it's an attuned weapon.

MATT: He isn't resistant to fire while he's
raging.

MARISHA: No, but he has resistance to physical
damage, and if he takes a potion of fire

resistance, is he pretty much covered the same way
if he's raging and has a fire potion?

MATT: Possibly.

LIAM: I could use this because it's dex-based, if
I so choose?

LAURA: But you can't do three attacks with it,
because it's bigger?

MATT: Well, yeah. You would have one attack with
that.

LIAM: One attack, but not-- I can't do longsword
and then a dagger?

MATT: You could do longsword and then a bonus.

LAURA: That's pretty cool.

MATT: Let me check, I don't know if he can do them
all.

LAURA: Could he do Whisper and then attack with
the dragon sword?

TALIESIN: I don't know how many items you have
attuned at the moment?

WILL: Just two, I believe.

TALIESIN: So you could go for a triple?

WILL: I could. Well, I have my shadow spear. But
my nec, so you'd want the nec damage from that, is

what you'd be looking for. I don't know if I could
wield the two of them together?

TALIESIN: It's a one-handed sword, so I'm not
sure. What is your--

MATT: It has to be a light melee weapon in both
hands, it looks to do this, unless you have a feat

to fix that.

TALIESIN: Which I do.

MATT: You have the-- Do you have Dual Wielder as a
feat?

LIAM: Yes.

MATT: Yeah, so yes, you can use the longsword and
Whisper in the other hand.

LIAM: But it's attunement, so I have to choose
something.

MATT: You'd have to chose that over--

LIAM: This would supersede Whisper. Yeah.

LAURA: What? Whisper is a Vestige.

LIAM: I understand that, but this is very strong,
and with wings I could go anywhere.

MATT: Do note. As part of the rogue ability-- I'm
just double-checking here, but I'm pretty sure--

The attack must use a finesse or a ranged weapon.
Technically I'm allowing-- Actually, no, I'm

allowing it to be a finesse.

LIAM: You're allowing it? You're allowing it?

MATT: Well, because it's strength or dex. I'm
sticking to my choice.

LIAM: Okay. So it's light.

MATT: It's not light. It's finesse. Meaning you
can choose strength or dexterity.

MARY: I have a question. Last time I saw you, you
were looking for the Vestiges.

LAURA: Yes.

MARY: Did you find them?

LAURA: All of them! All of them! Well, all of
them that we know about.

MARY: Do you know what to do with them?

SAM: They are all super powerful, and are awesome,
and you'll see them in battle tomorrow.

LAURA: That's all we know, is that you fight with
them. That's all we know. Why, do you know more?

MARY: Is there any information we can glean from
Osysa at all, in Vasselheim, of how to use them?

LAURA: Well, it would mean traveling to
Vasselheim.

MARY: That's true. Is there any way to get there,
just quick and bamf in and just--

TALIESIN: Last time we went somewhere quick and
bamfed in--

MARY: It was a long time?

TALIESIN: Things went poorly. But we could speak
to her. We could talk to her.

LAURA: One of us could go and bamf back. And
be back tomorrow morning.

WILL: Well, you said you used them.

MARISHA: Yeah, we've been using them

WILL: So then you know what they do, for the most
part, right?

ALL: Yeah.

WILL: Why waste a trip?

MARY: What if there's a way to combine them?

MARISHA: We tried. We put them all in a pile...

(laughter)

WILL: That didn't work? Piling them on top of each
other didn't work?

SAM: They didn't become a robot.

LAURA: Not as much as we hoped it would, no.

MARISHA: Yeah. There are other Vestiges, too, that
are out there.

LIAM: You have a potion of haste, yeah?

LAURA: Yeah, potion of speed.

LIAM: What if you gave me that and I gave you my
boots?

SAM: Real quick, who needs the fire protection?

MARY: I don't; I'm resistant.

MARISHA: If we have plenty of potions, I'll take
it so I don't have to use a concentration spell.

TALIESIN: Ditto. My plan is to stay away from the
fire, but if I can't, that would certainly help.

WILL: My plate is partially fire resistant.

SAM: Vex? You don't need it.

LAURA: Fire resistance?

SAM: Didn't I give you that? Oh, I gave you cold
resistance.

LAURA: Yeah. I need fire resistance.

SAM: What did you give me?

MARY: Chlamydia.

SAM: Acid resistance.

LAURA: Oh, yeah, that's right.

MARY: Sorry. I was just in Australia. I got it
from a koala. I'm kidding.

LAURA: I could take off my bracers--

LIAM: It's up to you. I don't want to--

MARISHA: There's also the discussion--

SAM: What. More discussions?

LIAM: You take the boots, I'm on the potion. I
have Whisper and this sword.

MARISHA: Are we going to try and lure Thordak out
of his lair as a challenger?

SAM: No, we're going to sneak into his lair,
right?

WILL: You're going to corner it.

TALIESIN: He's not going to leave his lair
anymore; he knows we're coming

MARY: So, just very briefly, what is the plan?

SAM: The plan, as I understated it, is: we send a
vicious army to attack at the gates, all over the

place, drawing out Thordak's forces in an epic
battle. Blood, sinew, and gore everywhere, while

we slip under the city, unbeknownst to Thordak, in
the tunnels with the Clasp leading us. Leading us

right to the center of town where we pop up, and
surprise Thordak! He didn't know we were coming!

He thought that there was an army at the gates!
And we stab him real quick and leave.

LAURA: Done. And we also find whatever it is he's
protecting and kill that too.

SAM: And at some point Raishan comes and helps
us.

LAURA: Hey! What's up?

WILL: How you doing?

LAURA: I'm really sorry. About all of that.

WILL: No, it's no problem. It's great.

MARY: I have a question. Do I know about the
machine? Have I been told about that? Did Raishan

tell me about that?

MATT: Which one?

MARY: The machine that Thordak is building, or
whatever the heck he's--

MATT: Thordak, as far as you know, has let nobody
down there, Raishan included. And you have no idea

what machinations Thordak is--

MARY: But I do know about it.

MATT: I mean, you know as much as they do. It's
come up in conversation previously, yes.

WILL: And you said we're going into the tunnels?
Does anyone know the way through the tunnels?

SAM: The Clasp does. They're an order of rogues
and thieves who hate us. But they're going to help us.

MARY: Do you trust them?

SAM: We totally trust them because they are
scoundrels and liars. And we have no other choice.

TALIESIN: It doesn't serve them to lie to us.

MARY: This sounds like a wonderful plan!

WILL: It doesn't serve the scoundrels and liars to
lie and be scoundrels?

TALIESIN: It doesn't serve them in this moment,
no. You know, if you're always a liar and a

scoundrel, then no one will ever trust you to do
anything, they're only conveniently liars and

scoundrels.

WILL: I love this plan, this is great.

SAM: (laughs) It's pretty air-tight.

WILL: Yeah. I don't see any room for problems. So
you want to go in and corner the dragon where he

lives and is most powerful--

SAM: Yes, yes!

WILL: His back to the wall, and no escape--

SAM: He can escape at any moment, he can fly.

WILL: Just us, though? Not the entire army which
we are using as a diversion?

SAM: Just a partial group. Yes!

WILL: But the scoundrels are going to lead us to
him?

TALIESIN: Well, he has his own army.

WILL: Of course.

TALIESIN: So we need to keep his army distracted
so we're not fighting a dragon and an army. So

those armies will hopefully either distract the
armies or; if he chooses not to send the armies to

fight the rest of the armies that we've brought,
all of our armies also converge on the dragon's

nest and then we have everybody there.

WILL: You're engaging all of your forces in one
play? If he holds his forces back, why not send in

skirmishes to see what happens first?

LAURA: Oh, I like this plan. He's good.

TALIESIN: No, we have people that we can do for
that. Although, it's not just one army we have. We

have groups of them, technically. I was just--

WILL: Attacking in one place?

TALIESIN: Oh, no. All around the city.

WILL: Is there a weak point?

SAM: Our plan.

(laughter)

TALIESIN: Don't you laugh! No! No! You don't get
to laugh. That scares us. Sadly, the only weak

point is--

LIAM: We either go with the shitty hand we've been
given, or we lie down and let him steamroll over us.

MARISHA: Yes, but we can also try and formulate at
least a vague plan, so that we all don't die

within a single--

TALIESIN: I think this is a vague plan so that we
don't all die.

MARISHA: All right, okay. Let's build off of what
Kash has.

TALIESIN: If it's too specific, then it's going to
go wrong too quickly--

MARISHA: Hang on, hang on. He's right.

MARY: Plus we don't know what to expect. We have
to be ready for anything.

WILL: We feint the city. Send skirmishes in to
feint the city so they don't know where the main

attack is coming from. They'll have to defend
every wall. What you then do-- what you want them

doing, because they're defending the wall, they
won't know when the serious attack is coming from.

Then you send them towards one fortified position.
That would draw everybody to the one fortified

position, but that's also a feint. And you come in
the backdoor. That's always the way you do it.

Meanwhile, we'll take the scoundrels and liars.
And hopefully they're going to take us to corner

the giant thing that wants to kill all of us, in
the place where he is the most powerful.

LAURA: Yeah, that one!

TALIESIN: I'm actually very okay with this plan.

SAM: We should have him with us always!

(laughter)

MARY: I totally agree.

LAURA: Do it! Let's do that, let's do that!

WILL: Let's do that! Okay! Great plan! Oh my god!
Who's in charge? Who's leading your ground forces?

SAM: We have no leader. Except we do have a secret
weapon: we have a dragon who definitely wants

something that we don't know about. Who might or
might not be working with us.

LAURA: We also have another secret weapon!

MARISHA: We have two dragons.

SAM: We have a sword that is a dragon-slaying
sword.

LIAM and MARISHA: A whole other dragon.

WILL: We should just kill each other now and just
save the trouble. We got to plan something!

LAURA: Scanlan, you do remember the flute, right?

SAM: Yeah, I carry it with me always. I use it all
the time.

LAURA: I wonder how long it'll take? To bamf
over when we play the flute? Is it instantaneous

or is it like, it takes a day?

SAM: We'll never know.

LAURA: We'll find out.

(laughter)

SAM: I'll be dead long before it works.

TALIESIN: Six months later, "Where is everybody?"

(laughter)

MARISHA: I told you we were going to die if we
didn't have you.

WILL: No, you're going to die even with me! But
I'm going to be the guy going, "Hey, we could have

"planned this better!"

MARISHA: Right, yeah.

MARY: I think you've given them a really good
plan.

LAURA: Yeah, no, that's great! Let's do that!

TALIESIN: There is no situation that anyone is
going to come up with where we're looking good,

and this is going to work well. There's just--
there's a dragon in the middle of the city with an

evil army and we have to deal with it, and there's
just no positive way to deal with that.

MARY: Are we taking Raishan with us?

SAM: Raishan, I feel like she's going to meet us
there.

MARISHA: It just seems so highly defeatist to
already plan for-- you know, defeat.

TALIESIN: It's not planning for defeat. It's
recognizing that no matter what, ten minutes into

it, everything that we thought we knew is
going to be wrong anyway.

WILL: At least tell me you're not going to send
all your forces in at the same time. You're

saving a reserve.

LAURA: Of course.

MARISHA: Okay. Then we need to talk about the
forces that are going in. More armies are talented

than others.

SAM: We're not sending them all in?

TALIESIN: No, we're not. We are going to surround
the city.

WILL: I need one supreme general who's going to be
in charge of everything. Who stays back as we're

attacking.

LAURA: Daxio is going to do that.

MARY: All right.

WILL: And the men trust him?

LAURA: Yes. He's the leader of the army.

WILL: Okay.

TALIESIN: He's all right.

MARISHA: Then we need to get this plan to him.

LAURA: Yeah, we need to talk to him.

TALIESIN: We have communications.

MARISHA: So we're going to have waves of assault
from one position, have other people flank in from

another position--

WILL: And you're attacking a fortified city?

TALIESIN: Fortified-ish. Well, the hope is
actually-- also we have the 50 men from Fort

Daxio. We can bring them in underground as well,
and just have them pop up--

LAURA: And open the gates?

TALIESIN: --all sorts of places. Also open the
gates.

WILL: So you could bring forces with us to come up
in the middle of the city?

LAURA: Yeah.

WILL: That's good. We should have talked about
that in the beginning.

SAM: I also think there's a SWAT team that's
available to us.

TALIESIN: He thinks there's a SWAT team.

WILL: You should-- you should talk less.

SAM: Smile more?

(laughter)

TALIESIN: I think you smile just the right amount.

MARY: I use my Awakened Mind to speak to Kash
telepathically. You can't respond out loud, so

don't. You know how I feel about Raishan. You know
what I've experienced with her. Keep an eye on

her. Don't trust her. If you see anything while
we're out there, you let me know and we'll take

her out. All right, darling?

SAM: Kash, why are you drooling and staring off
into space?

(laughter)

WILL: Was-- was I drooling?

SAM: Oh, just a little.

WILL: That's my bad, I'm sorry.

LAURA: You were talking so much a second ago,
and--

WILL: I was thinking about how I can't wait to die
tomorrow. Yeah.

SAM: Well, why don't we finalize this plan
tomorrow when we meet with the general who will

be-- what, commanding half the forces?

MARISHA: I think we need to meet with the general,
like, tonight.

SAM: Okay. Let's go.

MARISHA: Right now.

TALIESIN: Meet or telepathically communicate?

LAURA: I think we should send a message through
Allura. She can just scribble a note and send it

to him.

TALIESIN: Also that way, he'll have less time,
less effort defying us.

SAM: Why-- why not go talk to him?

MARISHA: Yeah. I feel like you can't really
scribble an elaborate battle plan in a 25-word

message.

TALIESIN: It's not written down, it's all
telepathic conversation.

MARISHA: But the Message spell that Allura is
using only allows for very minimal conversation.

It's not exactly-- She can't have a full-blown
conversation with them.

MATT: It's a long-distance Twitter.

MARISHA: Yeah. A hundred percent.

SAM: Let's go to him.

LAURA: All right, let's go. Right now. I still
think we should eat a Heroes' Feast before we go.

Just in case.

SAM: When Vex wants to spend money, I'm in
agreement.

LAURA: What's the difference, really? Just to be
prepared.

MARISHA: Well, it blows a spell.

LAURA: But the day is almost up. It will protect
us all day tomorrow.

MARISHA: What time is it?

MATT: After this much conversation, it's getting
closer to sunset, probably an hour after--

SAM: Oi, Pike! Can you do a Heroes Feast for us?

MATT: "Sure!"

(laughter)

SAM: Thanks, Pike!

MATT: "No problem!"

MARY: You're so tiny, I didn't even see you.

(laughter)

MATT: Yeah, she then goes ahead and casts Heroes'
Feast. Same cost. Same cost as-- It also cost her

6th-level spell slot. Which I'll mark.

LAURA: You don't have to, we have party funds for
this, dear.

MATT: All right. So Heroes' Feast has been
summoned for you guys.

LAURA: Did you just give me 800? I'm just pocketing
your 800, and I'm putting it in the party gold. So

thank you.

LIAM: It's the same thing.

MATT: So you guys are going to speak to Allura,
then?

SAM: No. We're doing a Heroes' Feast.

WILL: I was told there was brunch.

MARY: I was promised brunch!

MARISHA: Do we know exactly where the Syngorn army
is? How far away from--

MATT: That, you would have to talk to Allura
about. She's acting as the information nexus for

everyone. It takes an hour. You all have to sit
and devour the meal for an hour, for 12 people.

LAURA: Okay.

MATT: For your party, your two allies there, and
Gilmore, and Jarett, Drake, anybody else you want

to bring along. And as you guys, for the next 24
hours--

LAURA: And Trinket.

SAM: Do you need it?

LAURA: No.

WILL: Wait. That was you at the beginning?

(laughter)

LAURA: Shh-shhh--

MATT: Kima-- you'd have to choose between Kima or
Jarett.

TALIESIN: Or Kima or Trinket.

LAURA: We have to choose between Kima and Jarett
to come? Or to eat?

MATT: To eat. You only have up to 12 people for the
meal.

MARISHA: Kima. She's in the fray.

TALIESIN: Yeah. He can stay back, he has a
crossbow.

MATT: All righty, so, that being the case, gonna
roll 2d10 to see how much everyone's maximum hit

points increases.

SAM: Oh, we don't need to do Grog.

LAURA: Yeah, we do.

SAM: He's not here.

MATT: That's a really good roll. That's an eight
and a nine. So there you go. All of you gain 17

additional max hit points for the next 24 hours.

MARISHA: Wow, that's awesome.

MATT: That's actually really, really good. So keep
a note on that.

LAURA: And then we're immune to fear and poison,
right?

MATT: And you're immune to poison and the poisoned
condition.

SAM: And we have advantage on wisdom saving
throws.

MATT: All right, I'm marking this here.

WILL: I feel so much healthier. And the bacon is
great. Fresh lox.

SAM: Zabar's.

LAURA: I'm so hungry now!

MARY: Hollandaise wasn't that blender stuff, it
was the real thing.

MATT: All right, so you finish your meal. You
summon Allura, she comes and enters the room. She

looks a little frazzled, a little sleepless, but
she's keeping it together. "All right, what do you

"require?"

MARISHA: We were curious if you knew the location
of the Syngorn army?

MATT: "Yes, we've been keeping in contact. They
look to be arriving about early afternoon

"tomorrow, at a far enough distance from Emon.
Their illusionists have been keeping a blanket in

"front of the army to dissuade any visibility and
giving away their position in advance."

LAURA: Oh, that's so comforting.

WILL: You have numbers?

MATT: "They are at-- let's see here, they're at
2,000 troops."

LAURA: Okay. All right.

MATT: "Give or take, and--"

MARISHA: Do you know the status of the other
armies?

MATT: "Well, that is the Syngorian force and the
three Daxio-- the Dusk regiment, the Tide

"regiment-- The Dusk, the Gale, and the Tide
regiments with the Syngorian forces."

LIAM: And all together is 2,000?

MATT: "Yes. A little over 2,000."

WILL: Are they all foot?

MATT: "They are all foot, yes. Unfortunately, with
the time given, and the transition to and from the

"Feywild, there was an inability to bring with them
most of their beasts of burden and horses. Many of

"them were left to scatter shortly after the
Conclave's attack."

SAM: Is there an elite SWAT team task force?

MATT: "I believe that's-- there is one, and they
are called Vox Machina."

MARY: I've heard of them.

WILL: Are there shields?

MATT: "They do have shields."

WILL: How big?

MATT: "Uh, depends on the regiments. I mean--"

WILL: Can we form a phalanx, is my question.

MATT: "I-- Yes, that is--"

LIAM: He has been training military in
Whitestone.

MATT: "Specifically the Tide regiment is a
frontline shield phalanx."

WILL: And how big is it?

MATT: "I don't actually have numbers on that.
You'd have to talk to Mikael on that. The

"Warmaster."

WILL: And they're going to be attacking a
fortified location?

MATT: "Yes, the outer walls of Emon are guarded by
a wall. The wall has sustained damage through the

"Conclave's initial attack and there has not been,
as far as I know, intent to rebuild, or at least a

"force to be able to since then."

LAURA: So if we could get in, talk to the Clasp,
and have them find a way to open the gates, it

would help the armies.

WILL: Well, that's the thing, is you'd have to
hold the gate once it's open. That's gonna be the

hardest part. But 50 men could easily do that.

LAURA: Plus the Clasp, which hopefully will be
willing to fight.

SAM: Hey, where's our stone golem?

TALIESIN: Far away.

SAM: He's gone.

WILL: How many-- do we know the numbers that are
inside the city?

MATT: "Not specifically. As far as the lizardfolk
army-- from what we've heard from Asum, from Brom,

"from Raishan, the estimates are somewhere in the
neighborhood of eight to nine thousand, and at

"least five to six hundred wyverns that are--"

WILL: So we don't control the air?

MATT: "Not on a wide scale, no."

TALIESIN: We have a single battleship.

WILL: We're attacking a fortified location with no
siege engines, outnumbered three to one.

TALIESIN: Their fortified location also does not
have siege engines, just air force.

MARISHA: Their air force is also giant wyvern
beasts.

MATT: "Now, understand, lizardfolk are not the
most hearty, the most well-trained. They're a

"chaotic force at best and even the bit of
unification they've had under Thordak's banner is

"thin. You've already had luck cutting down a few
of their main sources of tactics; I believe the

"general that you slew outside of Daxio was one of
their main organisers. That's a big blow to their

"tactic brigade. Who knows who else is in cahoots
with Thordak since he took power, but we've been,

"in previous encounters, chipping away at their
capabilities. Thordak also does have under his

"command a number of fire giants that he brought
with him from the Fire Plane. However, you also

"slew their general."

WILL: Are they superstitious?

MATT: "Not to my knowledge, no."

WILL: Any type of religion; a devil figure in
their religion?

MATT: "There are. They exist among many various
devils."

WILL: I'm wondering if we have the illusionist
drop the shield when the army gets there and

create an illusion of one of their giant beasts
that they're afraid of on one side of the wall.

Scatter fear among all of them.

TALIESIN: It could work. The big fear there of
course is that they work for a creature they

already fear quite a bit.

LAURA: I think Thordak might be scarier than any
of their gods at this point.

WILL: Thordak will be busy, hopefully. We want to
move them away from the gate so that the 50 men

can come up through the city and hold the gate.

TALIESIN: I think a carrot would be easier than a
stick. I think it would be better to find a force

for them to rush toward, than to find something
for them rush away from.

MARISHA: Do we know how many spellcasters are in
the Syngorn army?

MATT: "I do not have those numbers,
unfortunately."

WILL: That could be interesting.

TALIESIN: More carrot, less stick.

WILL: You might not even need to see the soldiers,
just the dust rising from their boots.

MARY: And the horses charging, if you can make
that kind of illusion.

MARISHA: We need to figure out how many
spellcasters.

MATT: "That would be a conversation with the
Warmaster."

MARISHA: They can throw down long-range, large,
covering spells.

SAM: Let's go talk to the Warmaster.

LAURA: Well we don't know where they'll be exactly
until tomorrow.

MATT: "Have that conversation at the ready."

MARISHA: All right, hang on, how about this? We
know that they're to arrive in Emon by the

afternoon. We can just try to connect with them in
the early morning and march in with them, then

split when we get closer to the gates.

TALIESIN: And then meet the 50 men at Greyskull
Keep.

WILL: Do we have access to anything that goes
boom?

TALIESIN: A little bit. Do I have anything
possibly still leftover at Greyskull, any of my

supplies?

MATT: You do have a small cache of blackpowder at
your disposal. It's about a cask.

TALIESIN: I make it myself, half the time.

WILL: A cask in the right place against an already
damaged wall could punch a hole.

TALIESIN: It could.

WILL: And if we're underneath, and the foundation
is already weakened, we'd be trapped but the army

could get inside.

TALIESIN: Do you still have that siege arrow or is
that gone now?

LAURA: I do, I have a siege arrow. And Grog does
extra damage against buildings and walls.

MATT: "Yes I do!" (boom) slams his fists together,
and as they hit you hear what sounds like a very

localized sound of a rockslide. Just like (boom).

MARISHA: Rad.

TALIESIN: So we do have a siege arrow which will
basically do the damage of-- It's a

wall-shatterer. It's designed to bring down
stone.

LAURA: So it damages stone, specifically? The
siege arrow?

MATT: Yes. It damages anything that is liable to
siege.

WILL: And it can be fired by anybody?

TALIESIN: Yes, but it is weirdly weighted and
she's probably the one you want firing it.

LAURA: I'm a really good archer.

WILL: I remember, when I brought you back from the
dead.

LAURA: Yeah, oh my god thank you so much.

WILL: You're welcome, not a problem.

MARY: What am I, chopped liver? I get nothing? I
think it was both of us, I believe.

WILL: That could be interesting, though.

TALIESIN: Yes it could. I'd forgotten about that.

WILL: Well because what they'll be expecting is
for 50 men to come in and hold the gate. What if

holding the gate is actually a distraction? And
then we punch a hole through the wall and go in

the back door.

LAURA: Yes. I like it.

WILL: But we're going to be in the tunnel, we're
working about the top right now.

MARY: But if we can scatter their forces front and
back, we'll have the center to come in underneath,

and that way if they figure it out they'll have to
come from either side.

WILL: The 50 men holding the wall, the chances of
any of them getting out are slim, but they're

going to know that going in.

LAURA: These guys are legit!

SAM: We are the worst people.

LAURA: Apparently! Which is terrible. It really,
really is.

WILL: It's the end of the world, they know what's
happened.

MARY: You've been dealing with dragons, we've been
thinking about it.

MARISHA: I'm still concerned we don't have enough
air support for the 500 wyverns.

MARY: I think we might have to let that go.

MATT: Allura chimes in and goes, "As far as I
understand, that's part of the reason you're

"bringing the mages with you."

MARISHA: Yes, well I'm thinking--

TALIESIN: Ground to air.

WILL: How big is the airship?

MARISHA: I wasn't wanting to necessarily tap into
this resource unless necessary, but I think it's

necessary. I can contact the Air Ashari and have
them specifically on air support.

LIAM: And they can get themselves here quick, like
you?

LAURA: They can go through trees, instant!

TALIESIN: It can hold two dozen people on that
ship, right?

LAURA: We need all of the Ashari.

TALIESIN: It's about three cannonade?

MARY: Is there anyone that could put an illusion
on the airship to make it seem like another

dragon?

SAM: I could put a slight illusion on it but it'd
be pretty easy--

WILL: I'm just wondering if there's a way to draw
their air force to the airship and then blow it up?

LIAM: We also supposedly have a green dragon as an
ally.

SAM: Oh yeah!

LAURA: I fucking forgot the Ravenites said they
would help us, too! I just remembered.

SAM: Well, we sent word to them, didn't we? Didn't
we send word to everybody?

MATT: You sent word to a few specific entities,
not the Ravenites.

LAURA: How long would it take?

TALIESIN: Vox Machina, swearing that they're going
to call you back for four years.

(laughter)

LAURA: Fuck. Are they too far?

MATT: They're like a continent away.

WILL: Wait, you can bring in air force?

MARISHA: I can contact my father at the Air
Ashari.

SAM: Do that. We also need to contact Gilmore.

WILL: If you control the air, you control the
battle.

MATT: "Gilmore is accompanying you, and I believe
Kima is going to come along as well".

TALIESIN: We also have your friend.

MATT: "The airship we don't know quite exactly
where it is and when it will arrive. I don't know

"if we can count on it being there by the time you
make this assault, but they're going there as soon

"as they can."

TALIESIN: It has cannonade as well and it is
designed to hold sieges in the air, so it will

keep many of them busy, and they're not that
bright.

WILL: If it's not coming though, you can't count
it among them.

TALIESIN: We can't count on anything.That would
be--

WILL: Huge.

MARISHA: Can you message Korren?

MATT: "I've not met Korren."

MARISHA: Oh, shit.

MATT: "If you could take me to him--"

MARISHA: Uh-huh. Yeah, right. Yes. Because we're
not leaving until the morning now. Sure, yeah. Oh

man (gasps) who wants to go see my hometown, you
guys?

SAM: (dubious noise)

MARISHA: Okay. You know what? I wasn't looking at
you, Scanlan. Okay.

I can show you where I went to school!

MARY: Keyleth, we need to get back here as soon as
possible.

WILL: You went to school?

(laughter)

LIAM: That was catty.

TALIESIN: We were like back in school suddenly,
that was great!

WILL: I formally apologize.

TALIESIN: That went so John Hughes, so quickly.

(laughter)

LAURA: Are we expecting you back tonight?

MARY: And the rest of us can rest, yes?

MATT: "Rest and prepare for everything you can,
for tomorrow this happens."

(liquid pouring)

TALIESIN: I swear if you're aerating wine under
there I'm going to be so upset.

(laughter)

WILL: I just saw it out of the corner, it was
great!

MATT: All you had to do was ask, I'm working
toward getting the break, buddy!

SAM: (sigh) Feels so much better!

MARY: Before we go to bed, I would like to talk to
Vex very quickly.

MATT: As you guys are going to prepare to make
your way to the Air Ashari, Zahra pulls you

aside.

MARY: Darling?

LAURA: Yes?

MARY: I have major concerns about Raishan. I don't
know that we can trust her, I just want you to

keep your eyes on her. While you were gone, I
tried as hard as I could to glean anything from

her, and the closer I thought I got-- I found out
that I knew nothing about her. And she knows

everything about me.

LAURA: She knows everything about all of us,
dear.

MARY: Don't trust her.

LAURA: Not even for a minute.

MARY: Don't trust her. If it comes to it, I'll go
down taking her out.

LAURA: I'd rather you didn't.

MARY: So would I.

LAURA: I have to do it, I have to insight check
Zahra to make sure she's really Zahra!

SAM: Oh shit.

MATT: Make an insight check.

LIAM: No that's good. That's good.

LAURA: I love you.

LIAM: Pretty good.

TALIESIN: I can also say there's an easy way to do
this--

MATT: Turn that way real fast.

TALIESIN: Just go downstairs.

SAM: (in surfer accent) Hey guys, don't forget:
December's theme is "revolution!" Featuring items

from Assassin's Creed, Mr. Robot, Firefly and
more! Don't forget to go to

lootcrate.com/criticalrole, and enter 'critical
role' for 10% off, my bruh!

MATT: That's the worst use of Seeming I've ever
seen!

(laughter)

MATT: All righty.

LAURA: When did you even speak to her?

MARY: While you were gone. You know I've been
spending time-- she's been down in the ziggurat.

LAURA: Yes?

MARY: So I've seen her. I've seen her form, as I
guess you have as well.

LAURA: Yes.

MARY: After Rimefang, I sort of became obsessed
with dragons.

LAURA: I know the feeling. (laughs)

MARY: Yes, it's a wonderful feeling, isn't it? But
I also know that she was part of it, and the

minute a dragon says 'trust me' is the minute you
don't.

LAURA: Especially her.

MARY: Especially her. So while you were gone, I
tried. I tried to find out as much about Thordak

as I could.

LAURA: Just know that we don't trust her.

MARY: All right.

LAURA: I don't even know if she's really sick.

MARY: I actually believe her in that respect. But
Thordak is the only one that can cure her, and if

that's the case-- if she believes that-- then we
are nothing. We are expendable to her the minute

she sees Thordak. That's the carrot that he has
put in front of her, is that 'I will heal you',

and he hasn't done it yet. I don't think he will.

LAURA: I don't think he really can.

MARY: If he does, we're fucked. That's all.

LAURA: You're not alone in this, at least.

MARY: Good. That's good.

LAURA: She's not our friend.

MARY: She can be persuasive. Thank you, darling.

MATT: You separate for the evening to gather your
mind, gather your supplies and prepare for the

coming battle. While the rest of you find
yourselves resting for the evening, Keyleth and

Vax find yourselves walking towards the Sun Tree
to make your journey.

MARISHA: Is Allura coming with us, too?

MATT: If you want to ask her to come with you.

MARISHA: I thought she was.

MATT: I'm sorry, yeah.

MARISHA: She doesn't have to.

MATT: You're right, no, she goes with you.

MARISHA: Okay, come on, Allura, let's go!

MATT: "Of course! Certainly."

MARISHA: It's great, we have these really great
crepes that we make. It's like our hometown

special.

MATT: "If there's time, I would love to have some.
Don't know if we'll have time."

MARISHA: Okay, okay!

MATT: So you all walk your way down to the Sun
Tree. You open the portal. Immediately on the

opposite side you see-- as it is nighttime in this
part of Exandria's hemisphere-- what looks to be a

beautiful, simple village made of curved wood,
almost dome-type structures, but not huts, there's

no thatch. They're really well-crafted, long,
intricate strips of wood like it's been grown to a

specific shape. It creates these interesting
domiciles that are all built, you see beyond that,

on the edge of a sheer cliff, and the minute you step
through the wind hits you. There is a strong wind

immediately on the outside of this tree, and you
feel your cloak being blown to the side. You look

over behind the tree that you just stepped out of,
and it's another cliff that vanishes into darkness

below. The Air Ashari village of Zephrah lies at
the very top of this mountain range. For a brief

second, you get vertigo, glancing over your
shoulder. Keyleth steps through with a big smile

on her face. You see Allura step through, and as
soon as she sees this happen she clasps and keeps

her hair down, not wanting to be like you right
now with your hair (blowing) in the wind.

You take a few steps toward the village. Probably
close to 100 homes at most, built into the

mountainside. It goes up into a hill with trees
that surround the outskirts of it. You see small

lights that are lit throughout so it has this
firefly feel glimmering through. As soon as you

step maybe ten or 15 feet from the tree, the wind
just stops.

LIAM: What happened to the wind?

MARISHA: I mean, we're Air Ashari, we don't have
to live in a hellscape our whole lives! Come on,

we control it, it's great! (sighs) Doesn't it
smell good? It smells so fresh up here, you know?

You don't have to deal with the pollution down
there. Oh look! Over there, that's where I learned

to shapeshift into a squirrel for the first
time--

MATT: "Keyleth? Keyleth. We're here on
business--"

MARISHA: Yeah no, then let's start walking!

MATT: "Please lead on."

MARISHA: Okay, yeah. And over there was the first
time that my dad taught me how to fly. He just

pushed me off the cliff--!

LIAM: I have my hand on her back and I just
start--

MATT: (laughing) Pushing her forward?

You eventually make your way back. There are a
number of trees that are grown through some of the

buildings, or buildings are built around them, or
from them. It's a very beautiful, simple,

natural-looking series of structures that are all
so smooth in their design that it was obviously

bent with some druidic magic to craft this space.

Currently there is nobody you see visible walking
through the city, most everything is closed off

for the night. The little lantern-like lights you
saw before are coming from the inside of these

buildings.

MARISHA: It's a quiet mountain town, everything
closes at like five, it was actually annoying

growing up.

MARY: You live in South Pointe?

LIAM: That explains so much.

(laughter)

MARISHA: I told you it was remote!

MATT: I want both of you to roll a perception
check.

MARISHA: 14 total.

LIAM: 22.

MATT: Okay. As she's talking and you guys are
walking, you notice a little dark spot, just

covering past the stars, arcing quickly in your
direction.

LIAM: I spin her around and tilt her head back.
What's that? Do you know what that is? Is that

normal?

MARISHA: Do I know what that is, is that normal?

MATT: Once you see it, you recognize the
trajectory of it. This is a person rocketing

toward you.

MARISHA: Oh, that's a person!

(laughter)

MARISHA: No really, is this normal?

MATT: It's normal for you, because this is a
person riding a skysail.

MARISHA: Oh, it is normal for me? Oh, like a--?
Yeah!

MATT: As the person swoops up and then lands--
it's a sort of glider. It resembles a pogo stick

in the fact that feet are placed on top of it, and
elements are grasped on the side. It's a large,

leather-winged structure that immediately folds up
and is held like a staff to the side.

LIAM: Whoa, that's nifty! Hi!

MATT: Standing before you is Korren, your father.

MARISHA: Dad!

MATT: He looks surprised. He lands in a very
aggressive, coming-to-see-what's-going-on-type

way, and as soon as he looks, "Keyleth! I wasn't
expecting--"

MARSIHA: Hi! Village looks great! I see you guys
have been keeping up with the landscaping, this is

awesome. Hi, how are you?

MATT: He hugs you, but it's a tense hug and he
pats your shoulder. "We're good. I--"

MARISHA: What's wrong?

MATT: "Well, things as they are, I know you're
probably here for not a passing visit. Am I

"correct in this assumption?"

MARISHA: I mean, I guess you could say it was
going to be passing in that we don't have a lot of

time. We're here to ask for help, for the Air
Ashari's aid.

MATT: "We were waiting for specific word based on
our last conversation. We have ways of finding

"information about what's going on in the world,
with the armies that have been mounting making

"their way towards Emon we've been keeping a watch
on the gathering energy toward the west coast of

"Tal'dorei. We were preparing ourselves. So if
you've come to ask for our aid, we're ready."

MARISHA: Why do I sense trepidation in your
voice?

MATT: "Because we know what we face. Because my
daughter is going to war against something that we

"watched tear through the countryside not long
after you were born. I'm just concerned as a

"parent. That is all."

MARISHA: You sent me on this path to prove myself
worthy and a hero. I'm following what I thought

you wanted of me.

MATT: "You are, and I'm proud of you. I just want
to do what I can to help safeguard that."

MARISHA: I will continue my duties as I promised
from the beginning.

MATT: "Of course".

MARISHA: As those supersede being your daughter.

MATT: "Of course."

MARISHA: And I am here for unfortunate reasons,
and I wish I wasn't. We need the best. We need as

many of the top soldiers that we have. I'm looking
at you, at my people, for air support. There's

about five, maybe six hundred, maybe even more
wyverns covering the city. So far we don't have a

lot of options.

MATT: "We know wyverns well, that's the good news.
We can probably facilitate this request."

MARISHA: I was hoping maybe some of the best
nature manipulators could create a hazardous storm

ahead of time? See what we can do to take out as
much in bulk.

MATT: "We can do that. Yeah."

SAM: (whispering) She went to school.

MARISHA: I know, I got educated!

MATT: "We can do that. When is this set to
happen?"

MARISHA: Tomorrow afternoon.

MATT: "All right, we'll get our conjurers together
and begin building a storm front. We'll send it

"mid-day tomorrow. Then what sign should we look
for to enter the fray?"

MARISHA: Oh shit.

SAM: Just anything.

LIAM: A flare, we have flares. Kiki, we have
flares.

MARISHA: We have flares.

(laughter)

MATT: "Very well."

(laughter)

MARISHA: We're spitballing this as we go, dad. So
we can work on a sign together, right?

MATT: "Sure, I mean, if we're creating a sky of
rain and darkness, just make the sky itself a sign."

MARISHA: I can do that.

MATT: "All right. Something I'd know, something
I'd recognize."

MARISHA: Okay.

MATT: "We'll go in there and tear as many of those
wyverns as we can to the ground."

LIAM: You're not alone, there is an army of elves
marching as we speak.

MARISHA: The Syngorn army.

MATT: "We've seen them traversing. Their illusions
are strong but their illusions are faced towards

"the city. We have the luxury of knowing their
magic. So, yes."

MARISHA: With all due respect, if you have seen
through their illusion, does that mean-- I'm sure

many of Thordak's spies could do the same?

MATT: "It depends on who he has on his side. I
hope that's not the case."

MARISHA: Yeah, me too. Are you going to come as
well?

MATT: "I do not wish to live in a world where the
dangers that continue to press upon the free

"peoples of this or any land draws my daughter to
the front lines to fight, kill, and possibly die,

"and I stay back and do nothing. So yes, I will be
there."

MARISHA What about Zephrah? What about the
village? Who is going to watch it while you're gone?

MATT: "We have enough to spare for this and
protect our people. Besides, as you well know, the

"protections in this village prevent wayward
fliers."

MARISHA: Okay. This is Vax, by the way.

MATT: "We've met."

MARISHA: Yeah, you have.

MATT: "Good to see you."

MARISHA: He came with me. So--? Yeah. See you
tomorrow, I guess?

MATT: "See you tomorrow."

LIAM: A great many people are grateful for your
aid, as am I.

MATT: "And I'm grateful for yours."

LIAM: You're a good man.

MATT: "Prove to me you're one as well."

(laughter)

TALIESIN: Cleaning the shotgun.

MATT: "But we have a lot to plan, I'm sure you do
as well."

MARISHA: Yes.

MATT: "Good night." He pulls you in and kisses you
on the forehead, and gives you a long look.

MARISHA: I just give him a big hug in response.

MATT: He holds you there for a second, then looks
back over at you as he's holding her.

LIAM: I just nod my head.

MARISHA: I miss you, Dad.

MATT: "I miss you, too. When all this is done, do
you still intend to finish your Aramente? Do it

"quickly. Come back to us, please. You're missed."

MARISHA: You have my word. I won't let you down.

MATT: "I know. Anyway." He slams on the ground and
the leather flares out into arcing-looking

fingers, and he steps on.

MARISHA: Are these the new models? They've really
upgraded them.

MATT: "No, you've just been gone for a while."

MARISHA: Have I been gone that long?

MATT: "You've been gone a while."

MARISHA: Well, they look great!

MATT: "Thank you."

MARISHA: Okay, all right, okay, bye.

MATT: "Good night." As the wind picks up under
him, the skysail begins to lift and glide off. He

heads back toward the village.

LIAM: That is fucking cool. We should get out of
here.

MARISHA: Yeah, we should.

LIAM: Allura?

MATT: "Yes, I believe we should. Well, it was nice
to meet him."

MARISHA: Yeah, that's right. Sorry, I should have
introduced you, I guess.

MATT: "I was waiting."

(laughter)

MATT: "As are the expected pleasantries of
diplomacy. But it seems you had it all taken care

"of, so it's fine."

MARISHA: Sorry, I got distracted by talking to you
as my father and not as Allura!

LIAM: It was so weird though, you were standing
directly behind him.

(laughter)

MATT: "It's all right, don't worry, it is a bit
cold, if we could get back please?" She's rubbing

her shoulders and arms a bit.

MARISHA: That was my dad, let's go.

MATT: All right, you guys head back, exiting out
the Sun Tree, making your way back.

LIAM: I catch her by the arm. I can't wait to come
back. Let's go!

MARISHA: When we come back, I'll have to show you
the first time I--

LIAM: Let's go! Let's go, please!

(laughter)

MATT: You make your way back to castle Whitestone,
preparing your materials, your weapons, your minds

and your disposition for the coming war tomorrow.

TALIESIN: I have a quick thing!

SAM: Shit, Taliesin, shit!

TALIESIN: I knock on Vex's door. I have a bag, and
I go to Vex's door and knock on her door.

LAURA: Hello, who is it?

SAM: It's a bag of dicks.

TALIESIN: You're terrible. It's me, I have
something to show you.

LAURA: (faux surprise) Percy?

TALIESIN: No, I'm an evil green dragon, let me
in.

LAURA: Are you here for our later talk?

TALIESIN: No this is a very-- open the door, I
have something to show you.

LAURA: Fine. I open the door completely naked!

MARISHA: Ooh!

LAURA: What was it, dear?

MARISHA: (laughs) It's a power play, I love it!

TALIESIN: I don't remember but it was mostly to
head in this direction. Can I come in?

LAURA: Sure, of course! Would you like to talk
before, or after?

TALIESIN: I open the bag.

(laughter)

TALIESIN: I pull out the first bottle. This is
called Dire Heart. I pull out the second one. This

we simply call Courage. I pull out the third one.
And this is a snow mead. And this is Green Tear

Whiskey.

LIAM: Drink the Courage one now.

TALIESIN: We're going to start with the Courage
and not talk about dragons. And I run in and shut

the door. You just stepped on the whole thing,
didn't you?

(laughter)

MATT: That was beautiful!

MARY: I can't wait for the artwork!

(laughter)

TALIESIN: I will be expecting labels for all of
them.

LIAM: You can't always be in control, Percy.

TALIESIN: No, I can't. It's beautiful.

MARY: Not when Vex is around.

MATT: Awesome. While you guys rest, most of you
rest for the evening, we're going to go ahead and

take a restroom break. We'll be back here in a few
minutes to continue the story. Stick around for

the break for a wonderful video message from
Patrick Rothfuss about the Worldbuilders charity

that we're supporting. Information will be coming
up here shortly. See you in a bit!

[break]

MATT: And welcome back, everyone, to Critical
Role, as we come back from the break. We will have

a winner from the chat room giveaway from our
friends at Wyrmwood. We are giving away an awesome

English Wych Elm Burl Personal Dice Tray winner if
you guys were in chat. It's actually, this is

really cool. If I pull it out of the box there.
It's got a leather interior, it's awesome. And it

goes to Jaanro.

(cheering)

MATT: So we'll get that to you very soon. Go ahead
and make sure to contact some of the crew here, or

the mods, and get your information to get this out
to you ASAP, so congratulations. And thank you once

again, Wyrmwood, for making this possible.

MARISHA: And by ASAP we mean as soon as we get out
the other 20 packages we need to get out and then

you're in the queue! Welcome to being in line.

TALIESIN: It's like the kickstarter you didn't
sign up for. It's coming!

MARISHA: I didn't want this.

MATT: All right! So, coming back into our game.
Get my music situated here. [very loud music] Oh

my, volume! So, as you all slowly come to
consciousnesses the following morning, well-rested

for the most part. You gather your supplies, you
prepare whatever else you prepared before, making

your way to the coming battle. So, what do you
guys want to do?

SAM: Go to the coming battle?

MARY: Yes.

MATT: All right, if you have all your things
situated, you wait throughout the day, anxiously,

eating your meal, looking to--

LIAM: Why is the music so--

MATT: The music is intense here.

LIAM: Is he here now?

SAM: I attack Zahra!

MARY: I use Witch Bolt on Scanlan!

TALIESIN: It's like that random Final Fantasy
encounter just happened and you're like, I only

got ten feet.

MARISHA: I just got out of the shop. Just got
out.

MARY: And in that moment, we fall in love.

WILL: If it's the final fantasy, why are there
14 of them?

MARISHA: Every J-RPG.

MATT: We're fixing the audio.

(loud wind instruments)

MATT: I don't think this is mine, either.

SAM: Is this just a radio station that we're
picking up?

WILL: You're listening to the sounds of
Whitestone.

MARY: On WNBC radio!

WILL: This is dragon radio. Giving a shout-out to
the Conclave, Vox Machina...

MATT: Okay. I think we're at my tracks. Okay.
Thank you for your patience. I need my music. It's

just a thing; I need to have it there. I can't
focus and dungeon master if I forget the music.

What? So, thank you, guys. Pushing through the
day, working through the antsiness of the coming

conflict. Allura, communicating back and forth,
gets word that the forces have gathered,

temporarily set up camp to arm themselves and
prepare for the battle once sundown hits.

Warmaster Mikael Daxio is awaiting your arrival.

LAURA: I have a question. I have a question. I'm
going to attune the Boots of Haste that I took

from my brother just now.

LIAM: That your brother gave to you.

LAURA: That my brother gave to me. And if I
un-attune my Coldsnap Armor, do I just lose the

cold resistance?

MATT: And any sort of armor bonus that it gave
you. I mean, you would still have the armor. Like,

if it's leather armor, it would give you a bonus
of two to your AC. But if it's a plus two armor,

you would lose the plus two on top of the actual
armor.

LAURA: That's a big drop. I'm going to take my
bracers off, then.

MATT: Okay, so you're doing two less damage per
attack.

LAURA: Yes.

MATT: Okay.

LIAM: That's smarter. That's wise.

MARY: I'm going to attune my Charred Dark Staff.

MATT: All right. Good.

MARISHA: And I'm going to go ahead and attune to
my cape, instead of my ring.

MATT: Okay.

LIAM: I'm attuning the dragon sword, and I want to
use it a little bit just so I don't get pantsed in

the moment. Does it work all right; am I all right
with this? It's awfully large.

MATT: It's bigger than what you're used to.

LIAM: Yeah.

WILL: Do you want to spar?

MATT: But even still--

TALIESIN: It won't do a bonus to him. He's not a
dragon.

LIAM: I mean, I'd like to, but do we have time?

MATT: You could give it a shot.

LIAM: Yeah, sure.

MATT: All right, so the two of you square off
briefly out in the streets just outside of the

guard barracks.

LAURA: I whisper in my brother's ear.

LIAM: What?

LAURA: Just be careful because-- What? What?

LIAM: Nothing. What were you going to say?

LAURA: Be careful; I think he has a grudge against
you.

LIAM: For what?

LAURA: Just go. You'll be great.

WILL: Am I fighting you or your sister?

LIAM: It's really the same thing, at all times.

MARY: I use Awakened Mind and I say, Kash, go easy
on him.

LAURA: (laughs) Oh, shit.

WILL: We're going easy. I just want to make sure
that you and your blade are one before you go into

battle. It's a bad time to find out you don't know
how to use it.

LIAM: I poke him in the knee with my sword.

(laughter)

MATT: Roll an attack.

LIAM: That is-- Is this a sneak attack?

MATT: No.

LIAM: No, it's just 28.

MATT: All right, so yeah. So, as you say that, he
smiles, and before you even notice, you hear a

ping! and you feel a slight vibration into your
lower pauldron, and you look down and the sword

has not hurt you, but it has definitely pierced
the plates behind the armor and he's showing, he's

posturing that he already has availability with
the blade between your armor.

WILL: Interesting.

LIAM: I jump back five feet.

(laughter)

WILL: I Flame Strike! No, I'm kidding.

(laughter)

LIAM: Evasion!

WILL: Just jump right to it.

MATT: "Where's Vox Machina?" "Well, um. They
killed each other. It's weird."

(laughter)

So as you both stand there, in a moment, squaring
off, the tension still in the city from the coming

event, but people are starting to look out and
gather. They're having a "Morpheus is fighting

Neo" moment as people are starting to pull others
from nearby buildings, and gather in a small

circle around.

MARISHA: Yeah, I go up to Vex, and go: why-- Why
is this happening? Is this happening for, like,

a-- Did they tell you-- Did they tell you the
reason?

LAURA: They're fighting over you, darling. They're
fighting over you.

MARISHA: I can tell-- I've been with you for a
long time. I can tell when you're lying to me.

LAURA: They both professed their love and now
they're fighting.

MARISHA: Now you're patronizing me.

LIAM: (calls) We're really not that far away! Are
we going to do this? You ready?

WILL: I'm ready when you are.

MATT: Who's making the first move?

LIAM: Me. Are we doing initiative or attacks? I
don't even know what this is?

MATT: The initiative was whoever said "me" first,
so.

MARISHA: I didn't know how badly I wanted this
until now.

TALIESIN: Boy, I did.

LIAM: Oh, man, what are we fighting to? Here we
go. So that is the first and that is-- I'm going

to use Luck.

MARISHA: You're about to fight a fucking dragon!
You're fighting Kash!

MATT: You do realize-- You only have-- You're
spending your Luck for--

LIAM: I spent it already. Just so we're clear,
everybody-- I'm going to switch back to Liam--

This is a game! This is a game. Which camera's on
me? This is a game!

WILL: Your fun is wrong.

MARY: Your fun is very wrong.

LIAM: So it's an 18.

MATT: An 18. What's your armor class? With your
shield?

WILL: My armor class is 20.

MATT: As you go to strike with the sword--

LIAM: That's the first one.

MATT: Yes. With your sword. And so now you're
attacking with your--?

LIAM: Natural 20, with Whisper.

MATT: With Whisper, okay. All right. So, as he
swings with the sword, with your shield you

deflect it off to the side and you're about to
bring your spear through for your own strike.

However, he's suddenly much closer than you
expected, and you feel the blade shirk the side of

the armor. So for the purposes of this, we're not
rolling damage because it's to spar--

LIAM: Thank you.

MATT: But the blade hits and pokes just enough
where you know that's maybe-- That's where the

kidney is.

WILL: Right, okay.

MATT: And in that brief moment, you see the little
creeping smile up the side of his mouth. You go

ahead and roll your attack now, Kashaw.

WILL: 18.

MATT: Plus?

WILL: Plus, well, if I'm using my-- I don't want
to use the shadow spear. Should we use-- Let's not

do nec damage on him, let's think. It's just a
regular plus two, right?

LIAM: So what is he at?

MATT: 20.

LIAM: Nope.

MATT: Well, it's a plus two spear. What's your
attack bonus altogether?

WILL: Oh, with the attack bonus is plus ten.

MATT: So that's 28.

WILL: 28 to you, yeah.

LIAM: Oh, that definitely hits.

MATT: Yeah, so, after you get the blade there,
there's that moment of posturing. How do you

deflect him off?

WILL: I think, yeah, the blade comes in, he's got
his spear, so as the blade comes in, he slaps his

arm away and just takes it right lightly across
the chest so it just cuts into the little bit of fat.

MATT: Just-- (slicing noise). You back away and
you see two of the mantle-like dark feathers of

your armor, the very tips just go-- (puff)

WILL: And then I look at you and go: one-one.

(laughter)

MARY: I cast Eldritch Blast, two beams, right in
front of either one of them.

MATT: As you guys are having this moment, all of a
sudden the ground detonates before you. In a haze

of greenish-white arcane energy, you see now these
small basketball-sized concave blast craters in

the ground before each of you, and right off to
the side you see Zahra standing, staff in one

hand, hand before her with the other.

LIAM: Oh, you do have two different color eyes.
They're so nice.

MARY: I use Thaumaturgy to go fire with my eyes.

WILL: We're just playing.

MARY: All right, boys. Enough. I appreciate it.

LIAM: All right, we'll play slap and tickle
later.

MARY: Your fun is wrong. Play slap-tickle later.
Let's do this.

LIAM: Anyway, sword works. Sure.

MATT: All right, you sheath the sword. So you guys
gather the rest of your materials together.

TALIESIN: We still have that spare sword that was
just that standard rapier that was just in the bag

before from the general, correct?

LAURA: Grog has the Bag of Holding, and I don't
know what's in it.

TALIESIN: I think we have it. We still have just a
very standard nothing, where it's barely a plus one--

MATT: Yeah, it's barely enchanted.

LIAM: What'd you need it for?

TALIESIN: Just in case someone gets close enough
to me that it's complicated.

LIAM: I have a shortsword, but that sounds
better.

TALIESIN: It's probably better. It's whatever
Stonefell had.

MATT: Shortsword is dex-based, so you're going to
probably want to run with that.

MARISHA: I need to roll really fast to recharge my
Spire. So I'm going to do that, real fast.

MATT: All right. And actually, you should roll to
recharge your wand.

MARISHA: It goes all the way up. It is full
again.

MATT: All right.

MARISHA: I rolled four plus four.

MATT: Twice, actually, for two nights of rest,
so.

WILL: "My spire's full."

MARY: "So is mine."

SAM: Seven. So I'm back up to normal.

MATT: Okay. All righty. As you guys are preparing,
Gilmore comes out. He's usually dressed in his

usual casual flowing robes. Or his wizard
tracksuit-type outfit. The outfit you see on him,

it's more ornamental. And it's, specifically more
so than you've seen him wear, it has a very

similar design and presentation of some of the
more noble individuals you saw wandering Marquet,

Ank'Harel in particular. He seems to be going more
ceremonial than you're used to seeing Gilmore.

LAURA: What color are the robes?

MATT: Oh, they are very much purple and gold. He
keeps to his aesthetic. But the design is

definitely ceremonial; different than anything
you've seen him wear.

MARISHA: Wow.

LIAM: Full Bollywood.

MARISHA: Yeah, that's what I was thinking about!

SAM: Is it his old boy scout uniform or what?

MATT: It's a long mantle that travels down to the
lower part of his torso, where his arms come out

from these long sleeves that come to a fine point
at the ends. He still has all of his jewelry on,

but where the belt is you can see it's a very
thick, heavy belt that like ties to a bow in the

center, almost like a reverse kimono that comes to
a square point. And the robe itself drops low and

flows behind him as he walks. It's really pretty.
As he walks in, he's holding himself with the

Gilmore air, but you can still see a bead of sweat
down his head and a little bit of nervous energy.

"Very well, I guess today's the day."

TALIESIN: Be pleased.

SAM: How are we going to get there?

MATT: "Be pleased."

WILL: Are we speaking to the general first?

SAM: Yeah, we're going there first. But not via a
tree, we have to go via something else.

LAURA: Why not via a tree?

SAM: Is there a tree on the battlefield where they
are?

LAURA: Well, it's not a battlefield.

MARISHA: I will be able to find out when we scry.
If not, we'll have to talk to Allura. I'm going to

scry real quick! Scrying Eye.

MATT: Who are you scrying on?

MARISHA: Can't hide from my scrying eyes. Your
dad. What's his name? Syldor, okay.

TALIESIN: Syldor the inevitably disappointed.
That's his full title.

MATT: Okay, you scry Syldor. You have a bit of a
flash of green, lots of green, endless green. Your

vision jumps into a familiar warm home. You see
Syldor nervously sitting with his daughter on his

knee, and they're talking. Syldor is back in
Syngorn. Syldor isn't a fighter, Syldor is a

diplomat.

TALIESIN: Oh, that's fair.

LAURA: Right, right.

WILL: Did you see them? Where are they?

MARISHA: Happy and healthy and comfortable by a
fire.

WILL: The whole army is happy and healthy and
comfortable by a fire?!

MARISHA: No, he's not with the army is what I
mean. Oh shit. I thought he was going to be with

the army.

TALIESIN: It's okay we have plan B. Let's go deal
with plan B.

MARISHA: Okay, I'll scry again.

TALIESIN: Or we can make Allura do it.

MARISHA: Allura, do you know where they are?

LAURA: She can take us to Daxio?

MATT: "I don't know specifically where they are."
And she sits for a second and sets up a rush job

of a scry ritual, 'cause now she feels she's been
put on the spot. But she puts it together.

MARISHA: Can I help her a little bit?

MATT: Yeah, you give her a little aid. You pay it
back to the last time you helped her with a scry

spell, back when you first met in Emon. And her
eyes blink over white again, cloudy. And she

returns. "All right, I see Mikael and the army
gathered, and there is a very energetic air to

"them. They're looking restless. I can bring eight
of you with me."

SAM: Well, are there any trees near them?

MATT: "There are, yeah."

MARISHA: The problem is it generally has to be a
tree that I'm familiar with.

SAM: If you go with her, you'll be familiar with
the tree.

MARISHA: It doesn't work that way.

LAURA: Question, if you go and you open up a path
to the Sun Tree, can people on this side run

through the Sun Tree?

MARISHA: Can I? That's an excellent question, can
I?

MATT: Wait, so if you Transport via Plants--

MARISHA: Like if I go with Allura and then open a
gate through the Sun Tree, and they're just ready

to rock.

TALIESIN: Do you have a Sling Ring?

MARISHA: Oh, damn it. Fucking lost my Sling Ring.

MATT: It does; it connects the plants on both
sides.

(cheering)

MARISHA: Hey! I'll do that. Does anyone else want
to go, just in case?

LAURA: Yeah, the eight of us need to go. And then
how many is that left?

MATT: "That would leave--"

SAM: Four?

MATT: "Then Grog, Pike and Gilmore. And Kima. And
Jarett. Yeah, we could bring everybody."

LAURA: And Drake?

MATT: "Is Drake coming?" And she looks off to the
side, and you see this little figure running down

from the castle at the top, carrying all this shit
in his arms. "Hold on! I'm--" And you watch him

just eat shit. He just tumbles; scatters. Gets up
and is like, "No one saw that!" Picks it back up,

runs back down and catches up.

TALIESIN: Are we supposed to get something from
the-- Oh god, we were supposed to-- Weren't we

supposed to grab something earlier? My brain is
just turning to mush.

SAM: We got it already.

TALIESIN: Oh, we got it already; never mind,
that's right.

LAURA: Yeah, yeah, yeah. He gave it to us.

MARISHA: Where's Raishan, though?

LIAM: Yeah. Are we going to talk to
what's-her-butt?

SAM: She'll find us. She's not our problem. She's
not our problem. We're not babysitting a dragon.

TALIESIN: In fact, if anything, the less we speak
to her at this point, probably the better.

WILL: And you're sure she's coming?

MATT: "Don't worry; she's coming." And you hear
another dwarven voice from the side, as you glance

out you see there's standing not too far from you,
arms crossed, Larkin.

(cheering)

LIAM: Buddy! Where have you been!? I've been
fucking worried sick! You were there; you were

gone. How'd you even get back here?

MARISHA: Vax, please, don't--

LIAM: Listen, I'm fucking with you. All right?
What's up, green bean?

MATT: "So, are we ready for this?"

TALIESIN: No.

MATT: "Didn't think so. Let's do it."

SAM: So you all go; I'll stay with these ragtag
group and sit by the tree and get ready.

LAURA and MARISHA: All right.

MATT: Allura grabs you, and takes Kima, and the
rest of the group that she can, and over time you

guys manage to get-- we'll say for the sake of
brevity here-- everyone back over to the war camp

itself. And it is a fair-sized war camp. And
what's interesting is as you're within this camp,

you look up, and in a similar way, the illusion
barrier that surrounds Whitestone, that very, very

faint shimmering effect, is present, but it's much
stronger and it's much more visceral in the way

that it alters the visuals. It looks like the sky
is this perpetual shifting kaleidoscope of colors.

The blue sky becomes green, becomes purple,
becomes red; it just constantly shifts like the

surface of a pond that's been perpetually
rippling.

And you see on the outskirts of the war camp, this
rotating guard of illusionists that are taking

time to just restore and maintain this illusion,
as everyone else is eating, polishing their

weapons and armor. You see a mix of elven
warriors, elven archers, and, very similar to the

Daxio soldiers you met earlier, but armor of
different crests, signifying the different

regiments.

It doesn't take you too long to eventually come
upon, and be led to, the tent where Mikael is, the

Warmaster himself. The Warmaster, I do not believe
you've met before, personally.

As you enter and look within, you can see the
Warmaster-- It sets you off at first, because he

does resemble his son. His son, who you did not
have quite a positive experience with. He's an

older elvish man. His hair just past
shoulder-length, but pulled into a very, very

tight ponytail in the back, with a few strands
that fall in front of his face. He has a very,

very strong jaw for an elf. He's a thick and
well-built warrior and holds that with both a

strength, and commanding respect, and everyone
around him definitely looks up to him. You can

immediately see why he's the Warmaster and how
he's held that position for so long. And you also

wonder, one, how his son fell so hard, and two,
how it must have affected him.

But in that instant as you enter, he's in the
process of having a conversation, and they have a

layout of what looks to be a brief sketch of Emon
in its current state, with a few things here and

there marking where most of the gathered elements
of the army, whatever you'd call it, the defense

of Emon, exists. And as you all begin to enter the
tent, he goes, "Oh, hello. I know of you, and I've

"been expecting you. Allura has been kind enough to
fill me in, in bits and pieces, but as far as I am

"to understand, you're our strike force?"

LAURA: The elite SWAT team, heading in there.

MATT: "Good to know this. We've been walking for
quite some time, and the soldiers have had a bit

"of rest. If we could, we would take an additional
day, just to put it at our most capable, but it

"seems time is not at our beck and call in this
situation, and as such, when the sun is down, I

"think that is the agreed-upon time to strike."

SAM: At sundown. All right, sure. Yeah, yeah,
sure.

TALIESIN: Most of these soldiers have, at least,
night vision, some form of darkvision, I assume.

MATT: "Most of the Syngorian army does, and we
have quite a few at Daxio that do as well."

WILL: (flatly) How are you going to attack?

LAURA: This is Kashaw.

WILL: Hi. How are you going to attack?

MATT: "Pleasure to meet you as well. So. We have
broken up the regiments into five different

"segments. We're going to separate, leading into
the initial strike. We're going to simultaneously

"hit the four main gates, the north, south, east,
and west side. The easternmost gate has already

"received quite a bit of damage. With all the
simultaneous strikes, we're hoping to draw most of

"the army to the outer circles of the city. We're
going to utilize this time to then shift our

"forces southward and instead push towards a
singular gate in a southward position, while

"they're scattered in that direction. If I'm to
understand what Allura has told me, you are going

"to be entering from underneath the city?"

TALIESIN: That is the plan.

MATT: "And attempting to facilitate the opening of
one or more of these gates in doing so?"

LAURA: That would be swell if we can, huh?

MATT: "That would be."

TALIESIN: We haven't really discussed it, but--

LAURA: No, no, no, but we have talked about doing
it.

TALIESIN: Or even breaching the south gate alone
would be-- If all four gates are being--

WILL: Any time we go out and we attack a gate,
they're going to bring all of their forces to that

gate. What they're not going to be suspecting is a
wall being ripped down. And once you open a wall,

you can't close it. You can close a gate.

LAURA: What's the weakest wall?

MATT: "That would be the eastern wall."

TALIESIN: It's also near Greyskull Keep.

MARY: Oh, that's the arrow that you're going to
use, yes.

MATT: "While we are not in a position to use siege
weaponry, we do have most of our mages at our

"disposal, and they have prepared a modicum of
siege-based arcane spells at their disposal. So I

"do not think piercing the outer wall will be an
issue. It's what lies beyond it that our focus is

"going to be: sow confusion, separate and destroy.
They are not a very well-organized army, and most

"of the creatures we've seen wandering the skies do
so with nothing but bloodlust and the intent to

"rend and tear as their main driving force and
goal. So, utilizing that technique-- And we've

"discussed, you'll be entering the walls; we'll be
pushing forward, phalanx method with those that

"are shielded. We will be piercing through and
scattering from the inside, breaking their ranks

"as much as possible, and doing our best to stay
out of the skies, using alleyways, using small

"streets. We don't want our men being plucked out
from the middle, from their air support."

LAURA: We will have air support.

MARISHA: I called in assistance from the Air
Ashari, from the north. They're maintaining the skies.

MATT: "The Ashari are aiding us as well?"

WILL: Do you know how many?

MARISHA: Did dad tell me how many?

MATT: He said roughly a hundred.

MARISHA: Oh, shit. Thanks, dad. Roughly a
hundred.

WILL: If I can make a suggestion? If you get into
the city, don't move through the alleys. You're

going to scatter your forces. Move into the city
and fortify a position. So then you've opened a

gate inside the city. Move the command center
inside the city, and defend from there.

MATT: "That is indeed part of our push, however,
we are rather vulnerable from the air. So with the

"Air Ashari giving us air support, that will allow
us the ability that we need to push forward as a

"singular unit, from unit to unit, in its own
right. You are entering from where?"

SAM: The sewers.

LAURA: Yes. We have a secret entrance in our keep,
if we can still access it. If not, there is an

entrance to the sewers towards the water. We were
told of it by the Clasp, right?

SAM: I've also used a tunnel to get out, at some
point.

MARISHA: That's right, when you were looking for
Kaylie.

MATT: That was Westruun.

SAM: It's the same sewer system, though, right?

MARY: It's the same basic layout of a city, yeah,
right?

LAURA: Wait, wait, the Traverse Junction. What's
the Traverse Junction?

MATT: "The Traverse Junction is-- was-- is, as far
as I know, still attached to the Lyceum, but--"

SAM: The Lyceum's unguarded!

MATT: "The Lyceum is partially destroyed, and is
filled with the remains of the enemy."

SAM: I remember that.

LAURA: That's not what I meant, then. That wasn't
the thing that I meant to say.

MARISHA: And we know Thordak has made an
underground basin. He only emerges when someone

challenges him, or offers their loyalty.

MARY: Were we supposed to meet the Clasp in a
specific place?

SAM: We've just got to get to a sewer.

MARY: So we just need to find a sewer and then
we're going to reconnoiter with-- Is that the

right word? Anyway-- with the Clasp. And at that
point, we shall make our way through--

MATT: All right.

WILL: And that's when the thieves and liars will
take us to the thing that's going to kill us all?

We're very excited about the plan.

MATT: "I can tell."

WILL: Yeah. Do we have the 50 soldiers we need, or
do we need to ask them for 50?

SAM: Did they ever show up? Did the 50 soldiers
from Fort Daxio show up?

MATT: "I had heard that Daxio had fallen. There
are survivors?"

LAURA: Well. There were. There were about 55
soldiers.

MATT: "They haven't found their way to us yet,
then. We'll keep an eye out."

TALIESIN: They might be headed towards Greyskull,
if I recall. I believe they were heading there.

LAURA: That's true. They should be crossing paths
very shortly.

TALIESIN: 50 men can move quietly.

LAURA: So after you cut through all of the
lizardmen like butter, you'll make your way to

Thordak?

MATT: "That's the intent, to push in towards the
Cloudtop. And, based on how well you and/or any of

"the air forces have been able to puncture the
defenses, push in towards the creature itself and

"unleash everything we have at the beast. As far as
I know and have been told, from some of the

"remaining members of the Council, they have a few
members still within the city. I believe Tofor

"Brotoras, Seeker Asum, and Brom Goldhand are still
within the city."

SAM: Well, not Asum. We know where he is.

LAURA: And Brom.

MARY: I thought Brom was at Whitestone.

LAURA: Don't say that word out loud.

MARY: I said it to you, quietly.

LAURA: Yeah, very quietly.

TALIESIN: We'll gather what we can. We don't
really know what's actually in there, yet.

MARISHA: And we can't trust anyone within the city
limits.

MATT: "Understood."

WILL: Do you have a time frame? For your attack?

MATT: "We are intending, once the men have been
fed, once the men have been able to rest and

"prepare their armaments, we were going to attack
upon sundown, yes."

WILL: And you plan to breach the city when?

MATT: "Hopefully within the first hour of the
attack."

WILL: Really?

MATT: "That's the intent."

WILL: How far do you think we can make it in the
tunnels in an hour?

TALIESIN: Pretty far, to be honest, especially if
we're-- Well, no that's--

SAM: 20 blocks.

WILL: You making that number up?

SAM: Yep.

WILL: You just pulled that out of nowhere.

SAM: Absolutely.

TALIESIN: It's the highest number he knows. Grog's
not here; I have to do something.

SAM: An hour-- We can probably make it, I don't
know, we can make it deep into the city, but not

all the way to the center, can we?

TALIESIN: No, not in an hour.

LIAM: It's a maze in there. But the tunnel from
our keep in, if it's intact, was not that far.

MATT: "If you were to traverse the tunnel system
in advance of our attack, that would perhaps aid

"us in syncing our maneuvers."

SAM: So we should go now.

WILL: That would be the goal, is to act as point
for the entire army.

MATT: "That would indeed be the goal."

LAURA: So, what, the minute we pop out, we send up
a flare?

MATT: "Some sort of a sign. Hopefully something
not quite as easy to read as a sign of aggression.

"We've taken much care to not be seen this far."

SAM: Or we could just wait for sundown and then
go, knowing that they're going to strike at the

same time.

TALIESIN: We go now.

SAM: No, I mean, once we get in there, we wait
until we pop out, until it's getting dark

outside.

LIAM: I mean, what kind of symbol do we send up in
a sky full of wyverns?

LAURA: What if we're not in position by sundown?

MARISHA: The Ashari are already looking for a
symbol. I plan to be aiding them. They should be

helping us with--

SAM: What about a storm?

MARISHA: Well, there will be a storm.

WILL: Wait, there's a storm coming?

SAM: Can you make one?

MATT: As you guys actually glance over, you can
see in the eastern sky, past the Iron Seat

Ridge, there is an extremely dark, building
stormfront that is just looming, miles off in the

distance.

MARISHA: See? Told you.

SAM: What about-- Kiki, what if you just made some
lightning strikes to signal the start of the fight?

TALIESIN: I think nature itself is going to make
some lightning strikes.

MARISHA: Well, I've got my whole Skywrite thing.
I've got my whole Skywrite thing; I can make a

symbol in the air out of clouds, which isn't as
terrifying as everyone has thought it is in the

past. We just need to pick a symbol--

LAURA: It just has to be subtle, something your
dad will recognize, huh?

MARY: A phoenix or something.

WILL: How is the storm going to affect your
attack, is my question.

MATT: "We are trained to undergo warfare in many
different forms of terrain and weather."

MARY: My concern is that if we wait until this
storm comes in, the sewers will be flooded. We

need to go in now before the storm gets here.

WILL: But if we get lost in there and the storm
comes, it'll be flooded while we're in there.

SAM: The storm isn't a real storm, isn't it Air
Ashari?

LAURA: No, no, no, it's Air Ashari.

TALIESIN: But it's still a real storm.

MATT: "If there is rain to come with the storm,
that is fortuitous, for much of the city still

"burns. But fire we can quell with a storm would be
helpful."

MARISHA: It's a-coming man. It's coming.

MATT: "Right, good to know this."

LIAM: Well, let's go.

SAM: To Greyskull Keep?

MARISHA: Look for-- Keep your eye on the sky.

MATT: "I will have two of my hawkeyes keeping an
eye at the clouds"

MARISHA: There will be a symbol. It will be super
obvious when it's determined. You'll be like, "Oh,

"of course, it couldn't have been anything else".
When you see it.

MATT: "I look forward to solving your riddle. You
as well, stay safe."

MARISHA: Don't know what the fuck it's going to
be. It could be a big "VM" for Vox Machina, I mean

like you know-- We could be like, Now! Fucking
attack!

LIAM: Are there clouds overhead now? Above the
city.

MATT: If you look up, it's-- the weather over
here's been fairly clear. There are a few wispy

white clouds, but nothing that is indicative of a
storm, yet.

TALIESIN: If the storm has taken the city, there
will be a break in the storm, of a perfect circle,

where we are attacking--

WILL: The eye of a hurricane.

TALIESIN: The eye of a hurricane. If it is not a
force, we can certainly look for it.

LIAM: And if the skies are clear, they'll not be
clear.

TALIESIN: It will be a nice column that will--

MATT: "All right. Then--"

WILL: Look for the stillness in the storm.

MATT: "We shall. Travel safe, travel swift."

MARY: Safe journey.

MATT: "You as well, good luck."

SAM: Be pleased. Remember, the plan is chaos.

LAURA: Total chaos.

WILL: Chaos can work.

TALIESIN: Chaos works very well.

LAURA: We make our way to Greyskull.

TALIESIN: Back to Greyskull.

MATT: All right. As you guys make your way towards
Greyskull Keep. Walking through, as you see rows

and rows of soldiers of different walks of life,
all part of the alliance of Tal'Dorei between

Syngorn and Emon. Many of them watch as you pass,
some just curious as to what regiment you belong

to, and you get a couple of occasional looks of
recognition.

LAURA: I wink.

WILL: Dale? Where you been, man?

MATT: "Wait! Kash?"

WILL: What the hell's going on?

MATT: "Going to die today, what are you doing?"

WILL: Pretty much the same thing man, how's Anne?

MATT: "Anne's not doing too well."

WILL: Aw, I'm sorry to hear that.

MATT: "Yeah, she was in the city when the dragons
attacked."

WILL: No! She wasn't.

MATT: "Yeah."

WILL: Oh, that's horrible!

MATT: "It's okay, we're going to kill them today,
right?"

WILL: We're getting there buddy. Good to see you,
you're looking good.

MATT: "Good to see you too, you too!"

WILL: All right, I'll see you later, man.

MATT: "All right."

WILL: That was-- I haven't seen that guy in
forever. So bizarre. Sorry, let's go.

SAM: Small world man, small world.

LIAM: And we're walking and we're walking and
we're walking.

TALIESIN: I feel like I've had that awkward four
minutes of like every con ever. Oh god!

MATT: As you guys exit the side ranks of the
current encampment, as they are all preparing, the

sun itself growing maybe about two hours out from
touching the horizon, you can see, in the

distance, on some of the outer embankment and
small structures that litter the walls of Emon's

surrounding fields, you see Greyskull Keep, a very
welcoming, longtime coming return. As you stay low

to the grass, I need you all to make stealth
checks

LAURA: Oh shit. Oh shit, oh shit. You roll a 20.
And then you--

MARISHA: Oh, natural 20!

MATT: Nice!

SAM: Natural 20 right here as well.

MARISHA: Really? Eh! Natural 20 bros!

TALIESIN: Natural 19, I haven't added yet.

MARISHA: Fuck you.

MARY: Ten!

LAURA: Should I cast Pass Without a Trace on all
of us? Is it too late? Can I just add it to

everybody's if I cast it now?

MATT: As you guys were going stealthy, I'll say
sure. Because you would have known, at this point

to do so. If you want to spend your spell slot to
do that, sure.

LAURA: I do.

LIAM: And that's plus ten, right?

LAURA: Yeah, it adds ten to all of your rolls.

MARY: 20.

LIAM: 35, now.

LAURA: 30.

TALIESIN: 35, 35 with the plus ten. 35.

MATT: All right. As you guys all stay low and
guarding each other, keeping an eye out to make

sure nobody is giving too much away. You manage
to go unnoticed--

MARISHA: (coughing) Sorry, I so inhaled my spit,
keep going.

MATT: Don't do that. That's bad.

WILL: Make a breathing saving throw.

MARISHA: (coughing) I'm still dying for a second.
Go on, guys.

LIAM: I rolled double ones. (wheezing)

MATT: You guys make your way to Greyskull Keep,
front door's open. Like, partially ajar. Not locked.

LIAM: I move in, forward.

MATT: Okay, you head inside first.

LIAM: I'm going to poke my head in first.

MATT: Make a perception check.

LIAM: 27.

MATT: You take a moment and look around, listen
carefully. No sound.

LIAM: So far so good. I'm going to move further
in. And continue to-- I'm going to check for traps.

MATT: Go for it. Investigation check.

LIAM: Fine, sure, investigation is an 18.

MATT: Okay. Nothing appears to be trapped here. If
anything is out of place, you know this area

pretty well, so.

LAURA: We're making our way to the doorway, we
peek in now.

MARY: Is it very dark in there?

MATT: There are no current set torches or
candlelight whatsoever, there are a few openings

that bring some light in. Specifically from
Sarenrae's temple. But other than that, it is

pretty dark in the hallways.

MARY: Can I see anything with darkvision?

MATT: With darkvision, you're fine. As you guys
glance around and begin to scatter throughout the

keep, you can see signs that it has been lived in.
People have been rummaging through, there is no

sign of any food whatsoever in the keep anymore,
there are a number of bowls and anything of any

remote value has either been taken or is left used
and unwashed. But after doing a quick scan, there

is no one inside Greyskull Keep. Apparently--

LIAM: Like, the whole place?

MATT: Yeah.

LIAM: So all the way up the stairs, to our
bedrooms, to his laboratory, all that's clear?

MATT: All of it's empty, but a lot of things have
been taken.

SAM: Can I go in the kitchen and just sort of
sense magic, or do an arcana check or something,

to see if there's any--

MATT: There is a Detect Magic spell, if you have
that.

SAM: I don't have that.

MATT: Then you would be hard-pressed to detect if
it's present necessarily.

MARISHA: Is your poop still around?

SAM: My poop is still there, it's just inert. It's
just poop.

LAURA: Did somebody steal the poop?

SAM: Oh, is it still there in the jar that I left
it in?

MATT: Actually, there is a broken jar on the
ground. It looks like somebody discovered it and

wasn't quite sure what it was, and then discovered
what it was.

MARY: This isn't pudding!

(laughter)

LIAM: This single scoop tastes funny.

MARY: Gelato? (retches)

MATT: The behavioral patterns of the way things
are left, it looks like people have come in

through, rummaged, grabbed what they needed to
survive, or what seemed of value, and left. And

things they didn't understand, or didn't see value
in, they left behind. Most of your workshop has

been ransacked.

TALIESIN: I figured.

MATT: Your cask is still there. And a few esoteric
tools that they didn't really understand, or too

big to maneuver, are still there. But most of your
toolset is gone.

TALIESIN: Grabbing what's useful, and maybe as a
lark I might try and run a wire from my inert

glove to Cabal's Ruin to see if I can actually get
the charge to travel through it if I punch

something.

MATT: If you want to use one of the charges, you
can try that.

TALIESIN: Yeah, I'll use a charge-- I'll hold.
I'll find out in the moment, won't I?

MATT: Yeah, that you will.

MARISHA: Try it on the day.

WILL: Is this your castle?

SAM: Yeah, this is our house. This is our keep.

TALIESIN: It's a keep, not a castle.

MARY: This is lovely. It's a little cold.

SAM: But it's seen better days.

MARY: But the bones are good.

WILL: Lot of space.

SAM: It's a fixer-upper.

MARY: Good location.

LIAM: I'm going downstairs to the entrance, and
I'm going to check it out. And use Divine Sense at

the entrance.

MATT: Okay, make an investigation check.

LIAM: All right. That's good. That is a 24.

MATT: Okay. Divine Sense doesn't trigger anything
off. Nothing gets you riled up in that sense.

LIAM: Feathers are in place?

MATT: Indeed, yes. Except the two that were cut
earlier from Kashaw. But you do find the hidden

entrance, or the exit I guess you could say from
the keep, left as it was, untouched. The seam

still smooth, covered in dust.

LIAM: Nothing hinky with it?

MATT: Nothing hinky, no traps.

SAM: Let's go down to the secret path. We're in a
hurry now, we've got to get into the city.

TALIESIN: Oh, I show Kashaw the cask, by the way. I
have some powdered death, if you like. This will

explode very loudly.

WILL: How much damage?

TALIESIN: You know, I've honestly been too nervous
to ever find out. Because everybody who plays with

this loses a limb eventually.

WILL: Is it heavy?

MATT: You hear this faint echoing voice in the
back of your head that says, "Learn from my mistakes..."

(laughter)

WILL: I say we bring it.

TALIESIN: That's my plan.

SAM: Can I just give you a quick note? Planning
Kashaw is very staccato. He's very clipped. I feel

like when you're just talking normally, you're so
warm and pleasant. But when you're planning, you

get this voice you use that's very grating. I'm
just saying, try to even out your tone. Do some

breathing exercises, breathe from the diaphragm.

WILL: (breathes) Let's go.

(laughter)

TALIESIN: To the tunnels.

MATT: All right. Grog happily takes the cask under
his arm.

LAURA: Don't drink that, Grog.

MATT: "Oh come on! One--"

LAURA: No, none of it. No--

(laughter)

MATT: "Okay."

MARY: He could fart explosives if he did.

SAM: Matt's Grog and Matt's Trinket are very
similar.

MATT: To be fair. You guys all-- single-file,
because this tunnel is not very wide, it's maybe

four feet wide-- you make your way through and
it's a long, musty tunnel. It smells of damp earth

and dust.

LAURA: We need to pass out these healing potions
before we get anywhere.

LIAM: Well, why don't everybody bunch up for a
second then?

LAURA: Yeah.

MARY: Is there light in there? Do you need light,
are there torches?

MATT: There is no light.

MARY: I cast Light.

LAURA: All right, we have three greater healings,
five regular healings, and two superiors. Who needs what?

TALIESIN: I'll take a greater.

LIAM: Superior, please. I'm weak as fuck.

LAURA: All right, take one.

TALIESIN: I'd like to take a greater as well,
because I'm always far away.

LAURA: Okay.

MATT: "Greater for me." Grog raises his hand.

LAURA: He wants one?

MATT "Please."

LAURA: You want a greater or--

MATT: "Yes, please."

LAURA: Okay, we have one greater left. Five
regulars, so I'll pass out regulars to-- Do you

need any? You, you--

WILL: I should be okay with healing, but if you'd
like I'll take one.

MARISHA: I'm all right. I still have a couple.

MARY: I have one normal, and two greater, and one
superior.

LAURA: There's one superior left. Oh, you already
have a superior?

MARY: I have a superior, two greater, and one
normal.

LAURA: Oh shit. You have a fuckton of potions!

SAM: I'll take a superior and one of them fire
resistance, please.

LAURA: Take the superior, Scanlan.

SAM: I need the stuff.

LAURA: Zero superior and four fire potions. I'm
taking one of the fire potions as well, so that's

three fire potions left.

MARISHA: If I could have a fire potion?

LAURA: Yes, two fire potions left.

MARY: Should Pike have a fire potion?

LAURA: Pike has fire resistance.

MARY: I don't know, I've only met her once.

TALIESIN: I would love a fire resistance
potion, if one exists.

LAURA: Of course darling, whatever you need.

WILL: No, I have fire-resistant plate, but I'd
love a healing potion, if you have an extra.

LAURA: You want to take two regulars?

WILL: Sure.

TALIESIN: I'll take the fire resistance. All
right, one fire resistance.

MATT: As you guys are awkwardly passing this down
this singular tunnel, having to almost chain it

back and forth.

MARISHA: I load up Grog's camelback with healing
potions.

LAURA: Now, the potion of invulnerability. Is
there someone specific we need to give that to?

MATT: "It sounds really neat."

SAM: Why don't we give it to Grog for now?

TALIESIN: Well, Grog already halves all of his
damage.

LIAM: Grog, if we give it to you now, you can't
drink it now. Not now. You have to wait.

TALIESIN: Quick rule point, if he already takes a
lot of half damage, if he takes the potion, it

doesn't really affect?

LAURA: Does it quarter the damage?

MATT: No. He just likes being invulnerable.

TALIESIN: It should go to Vax.

LIAM: I didn't wanna--

TALIESIN: Because you're gonna get close.

LIAM: I'm gonna get up in his shit.

TALIESIN: So you should take the potion.

It doubles your HP, double your HP.

LIAM: I just wanted you to be able to pl-- excuse
me? Can I have that, Grog?

LAURA: I still have it. I didn't give it to him.

LIAM: Can I have that, please?

MATT: "What do you want to give me?"

LAURA: You don't have it, Grog. You don't have the
potion.

MATT: "Oh--"

LIAM: He's holding a wood chip.

TALIESIN: Where did you find a purple wood chip
down here? That's, oh--

MATT: Travis just texted me saying he does not
have resistance to fire, which I knew. So if

anyone would like to--

LAURA: Oh! Okay, well then he gets the last--

MATT: The last one is Grog. He takes it and is
about to open the cork.

LAURA: No, no! Grog, wait for when we start
fighting Thordak.

MATT: "What can I drink?"

LAURA: Some ale.

MATT: "Okay."

SAM: Use your magic canister.

MATT: (whispers) "Mayonnaise."

(laughter)

MARY: I would also like to evoke Fiendish Vigor.

SAM: What's that?

MARY: Which means I can cast False Life on myself
for one hour, yeah?

MATT: Yeah, yeah.

LAURA: Do you do it now?

MARY: Well, we're about to go in.

SAM: It's gonna take us an hour to get to the
center of the city.

MARY: All right, right before we go in, I'll hold
it. Grog, give me a drink! Just one small one!

Just a shot. Don't look at me like that, I just
want a shot.

MATT: It's like an urn-type cask, and he holds it
over to you, and it's just filled with mayonnaise.

MARY: Ah-- It's so delicious, thank you so much.
No, all right.

MATT: "Sour, isn't it?"

TALIESIN: Sweet, bitter, angry.

MARY: It's good. It's only four or five days old.

WILL: You pull out your whiskey, but Kash is
already naked.

(laughter)

TALIESIN: I hand the bottle to Kash.

SAM: Let's go!

LAURA: I'm gonna give-- I don't know if Pike has
any healing potions, so I'm gonna give her a

regular healing potion just for something.

MARISHA: We're going out like we came in!

LIAM : We're in a little tunnel passing things up
and down in a little single file.

TALIESIN: Eating mayonnaise out of a jar.

MARISHA: Kash, pass the trail mix. Pass it all the
way back.

MARY: I smell a new sponsor!

TALIESIN: Mayonnaise?

MATT: You guys eventually find your way towards
the end of the tunnel that leads to the ladder

that leads you into the alleyway on the outskirts
of the southern edge of Emon. You make your way

up-- Well, it leads you through an outhouse, an
alley. You've been here before.

LIAM: I'm gonna, yes, I'm gonna peek through the
pooper first. Let's see what I see.

MATT: Perception check.

LIAM: Yeah. Okay, that's fine.

LAURA: We know where the entrance to the tunnels
are, though.

LIAM: I'm just looking for anything unexpected,
27.

MATT: It is empty and still chained.

LIAM: Are there poos?

MATT: No. It is chained shut for that reason.

LIAM: It's clear.

SAM: Should I-- Before we go out there, should I
Seeming us as lizard people? Yes?

LAURA: Can you do it to all of us?

SAM: I can do eight. Wait, is that right?

MARISHA: Do we? What time is it? What time of day
is it?

MATT: It's maybe like, at this time? After
travelling this far in Emon, you're maybe 40

minutes from sunset.

SAM: Want to be lizard people or no?

WILL: Has the storm hit?

MATT: The storm is getting closer.

TALIESIN: I think that we will not act like lizard
people, and also anybody who can see through,

there are like--

LAURA: Lizard people can't see through that.

TALIESIN: They are idiots. But they also--

SAM: All we need is a second to get some
confusion.

TALIESIN: They're used to seeing humans, though,
and as long as we scatter and are fearful they'll--

MATT: "I don't mind being invisible. That's not an
issue. Meaning I can make a number of us invisible

"if you want to go--"

LAURA: How many can you?

MATT: "Not all of you, obviously! But like, if
some of you wanna go as lizardfolk or somebody

"else can--"

LAURA: I want to be invisible!

LIAM: Invisible, please.

SAM: You've got a ring that makes you invisible!

LIAM: I'm busy with other things. Also, it's maybe
time for another Feast? Isn't it?

TALIESIN: We're still good, I think.

LIAM: It's about sundown. When we did it last-- We
did it before beddie-bye.

SAM: But that takes an hour, we're not gonna sit
here in the sewer eating a fucking--

LIAM: We cannot fucking fight Thordak without a
Heroes' Feast.

MARISHA: How long has it been? Is it almost up?

WILL: 40 minutes until battle.

MATT: Well, I mean, you guys-- It's about 40
minutes until sundown.

SAM: We don't have time.

LAURA: Can we eat a really fast feast?

TALIESIN: McFeast.

MARISHA: When did we eat the feast last night?
About this time? Are we about to expire or can we

push it? Was it a midnight snack?

MATT: You guys would choose the most optimal time,
since there was no rush to eat the feast.

LAURA: Yes! We would have.

MATT: You would have been like, well shit, let's
do it at 6:00 because we're fighting-- That's

probably when you guys would've. So you probably
have until the end of the evening.

LIAM: Three or four hours-ish.

MATT: There would have been no benefit to doing it
earlier.

TALIESIN: This is going to be over before that.
These things move quickly.

SAM: Am I turning us into lizard people?

LAURA: Some of us, but I'm invisible because of
Gilmore.

MARISHA: Are we making an above-ground jump to the
underground tunnels again?

WILL: Someone knows where they're going, right?

MARY: Where's the Clasp? Are we going to meet up
with them at some point?

TALIESIN: Once we're down there, they'll know
we're here.

MARISHA: How far is the tunnel jump? How long do
we have to be above ground? I'm asking because I

might be able to make some holes in the wall to
cut us into other tunnels and not have to go above

ground at all.

MATT: When you recall Garthok leading you through
Emon to get to the Clasp entrance, you had to be

above ground for probably about 20 minutes.

MARISHA: 20 minutes?!

WILL: That's a lifetime above ground.

MATT: A lot of it was spent slow because you guys
were stealthy, jumping from alley to alley and

being very stealthy. If it was a brisk pace, it
could be as fast as ten.

MARISHA: That was to the entrance to the Clasp,
not the entrance to the sewer system, right?

MATT: Correct.

LAURA: We could just pop down to a sewer. Do we
see a sewer hole?

MATT: If you want to go inspect, you could look
for one.

SAM: Then we have to find our way through the
sewer that we don't really know how to get

through. We should find the Clasp entrance.

LAURA: This plan is smart. Wait, once we get to
the Clasp, then we have to fucking talk to the Clasp.

SAM: Yeah, for a second.

LAURA: All right.

MARY: They're going to help us, right?

LAURA: It's all on Scanlan; he's very charming.
Kash, don't talk when we're in there.

WILL: I won't speak. Remember that time I saved
your life?

LAURA: It was wonderful, and I'm very grateful.

WILL: No, we're good.

LAURA: I'm very glad you're here, though.

WILL: Thank you, that's very sweet.

MATT: "All right, are we lizarding and then
invis-ing?"

LAURA: Yes, and then we're going to go quickly to
the Clasp entrance.

SAM: All right, I'll make us all lizard people,
even the ones turning invisible.

LAURA: No! I don't want to be a lizard person.

WILL: Invisible lizard people!

TALIESIN: We need someone who can turn invisible.

SAM: Except for myself. Myself, I'll put the Hat
of Disguise on.

MATT: And you're attuning to that?

SAM: It's an attuned?!

LIAM: Only if it says it. Does it say it?

SAM: Do I have it? I gave it to you.

TALIESIN: And I gave it back. That was a long time
ago. Years.

SAM: Fine, I'll make myself a lizard person, too.

WILL: An invisible lizard person.

LIAM: A little lizard person.

MARY: Sam, I can do me.

LAURA: Don't waste a spell.

MARY: I'm not. It's an invocation.

MATT: Seeming affects how many people?

SAM: As many as are near me when I cast it. Any
number of creatures, it says.

MATT: That is awesome! Seeming is broken!

SAM: Seeming is broken.

TALIESIN: How appropriate that we're going to be
underground lizard people in the city of Los Angeles.

MARISHA: Yeah, it's very appropriate.

TALIESIN: It is our best urban myth. The lizard
people of Los Angeles.

WILL: That's not a myth. I have a friend who knows
somebody who saw one.

TALIESIN: That's true!

SAM: I make them all very skinny,
not-well-nourished lizard people. Except for me.

I'm pretty big.

MATT: You now have a cluster. As Gilmore begins
his incantation for the Invisibility spell for

him, Vax, and Vex, you guys all watch as each of
your forms become these emaciated lizardfolk,

except for Scanlan, who is this much shorter, but
Wolverine-stocky-looking lizardman.

SAM: It's a glandular problem.

MARY: It's the mayonnaise.

MATT: You hear Gilmore chuckle mid-incantation.
(chanting) "You're ridiculous." (chanting) He

finishes the incantation, and Gilmore, Vex, and
Vax vanish.

LIAM: Can't see us, motherfucker!

TALIESIN: I suppose the invisible people will lead
the way.

SAM: Let's go!

WILL: Who knows where they're going?

LAURA: We do; we all followed Garthok.

WILL: Okay. Can we see the invisible people?

MATT: No.

WILL: Then how the fuck are we going to follow
you?

TALIESIN: We also know.

MATT: You guys begin to make your way through, out
of the alley--

LAURA: I tug on Kash's little braid behind him.

WILL: Aw, come on! I hate that.

MATT: You guys make your way into the street, out
of the alleyway. It doesn't take you long to find

an entrance to the sewer. You do occasionally hear
the distant, ominous (wing flapping) of a wyvern

rider or two doing a pass over this portion of the
city. A lot of the buildings on the outskirts have

been damaged even further from last time you were
here. A number of the buildings have doors torn off the

hinges, signs of struggle on the outside. It takes
you only a couple of minutes before you find a

grate, a drainage runoff for rain in the city that
leads into a subterranean sewer system. It is a little

bit out in the open. It's between two buildings,
but right on the cusp of the street itself, so

you'll have to be quick about it.

MARY: Let's go.

WILL: Who's opening it?

LIAM: I am.

TALIESIN: Invisible person opens it and then
somebody invisible keeps watch.

LAURA: I'm keeping watch.

LIAM: I'm checking for traps, just in case.
Natural 20.

MATT: That grate is so not trapped, like, holy
shit.

LIAM: It's brand new.

MATT: No one's ever trapped it, yeah, man. You
could sell that. Like it was day one.

LIAM: I lick it. There's nothing; it tastes
clean.

MATT: No, it tastes sweet, actually!

LIAM: All right. Is it locked?

MATT: It's not locked. It's wedged a little bit in
there.

LAURA: Grog, help! Lift!

WILL: Quietly!

LAURA: Stealthily.

MATT: "Okay! Shh!" He walks over and reaches. As
you're down there, he walks over, not seeing

you, reaches on each side of you to get to the
grate. Are you going to try to get out of the way?

LIAM: Yeah, I'll roll out of there. It seemed like
you had a little story you wanted to tell. Yeah, I

roll out of there.

MATT: You dart out just as he lifts it off. You
hear the creaking of metal, the bars bend slightly as

the strength imparted by the Titanstone Gauntlets
cause him to easily pry this thing off the ground.

You can see there is a somewhat eroded ladder, set
of rungs, but it is functional.

LIAM: How far down, with darkvision?

MATT: About 20 feet. It seems to open into a
chamber or sewer system.

LIAM: I spank him on the ass and say: I'm going
in, follow me. I drop in.

LAURA: Wait, Grog! Put the grate down very
quietly! I whisper in his ear.

LIAM: On tiptoes. Standing on his knee.

MATT: You guys all head down there with Pike in
tow, Gilmore following, invisible.

LAURA: Once we're down in there, I bamf Trinket
out of the necklace.

MARY: I use Beast Speech. How are you, Trinket?
It's been a long time.

MATT: "Yes. I'm scared."

MARY: Don't worry. You know Vex loves you very
much.

MATT: "It's why I'm here."

LAURA: I love you very much.

MARY: We'll look out for you, darling, we will.
Thank you for coming and helping us. Thank you.

LAURA: And for being such a badass!

MATT: (grunts) "Smells weird."

MARY: Kiss him on his--

MATT: It's cold. It's damp.

MARY: I love him.

MATT: You guys continue up the sewer system. It's
been a dry spell for a month, at least. It hasn't

rained in the past couple of weeks. It rains
fairly often here, so the system itself doesn't

have a lot of drainage going through. That'll
change soon, I'm sure.

LIAM: I'm 40 feet ahead the whole time.

MATT: Make a perception check.

LIAM: 22.

MATT: Okay. About ten more minutes into travel,
you're starting to get fairly close to game time,

when things begin. You do hear some whispers up
ahead.

LIAM: Hold on. Vex.

MATT: It sounds like four different voices are all
conversing.

LAURA: I creep up next to him.

LIAM: In one location?

MATT: A little ways ahead, out of sight. You're
not sure of the source; it's echoing from ahead.

LIAM: Listen with me.

LAURA: What are they saying?

MATT: Roll a perception check.

LAURA: I'm going to roll the Critical Role dice.
Oh man! Oh good, that was good!

WILL: There was a second where you thought it
wasn't going to be good!

LAURA: Where's my piece of paper? Perception. That
is a 28.

MATT: So while you hear the whispers, it's too
distant for you, Vax, to make out the details.

Vex, as you hone in your ranger attentiveness,
you've studied lip-movement, you've read lips so

much to the point where any dis-enunciation, you
can fill in the gaps. The conversation sounds

like, bits are talking about the relocation of
people, timing, "it's too dangerous," "we have to

"move further west," "the tunnels are down," "now
now now," and you hear a bunch of footfalls.

LAURA: Running away from us?

MATT: Running in a direction, you can't make out
if it's towards or away, right now in this moment.

LIAM: Do we pop out now and talk to them?

MATT: You now see what looks to be seven figures
step into the center of the walkway where you are,

walking away from you, in the direction you were
traveling.

WILL: Is anybody still invisible and/or lizards?

MATT: You are all still lizards and three of you
are invisible.

LAURA: And they're heading towards us?

MATT: They're heading away from you, in the
direction you were going.

LAURA: Okay.

LIAM: Wait if I go?

LAURA: They hate you.

LIAM: Wait.

MATT: Three of them stop and turn, "Wait, shh!"
It's really quiet, they've all just stopped.

LAURA: Are you true to Emon?

MATT: Stillness, no movement. One of them goes and
pulls a blade out very quietly.

LIAM: I used to be one of you. I used to be
Clasp.

LAURA: And then I took an arrow to the knee.

(laughter)

TALIESIN: That may be the funniest that's ever
been.

LIAM: So fucking meta.

(laughter)

TALIESIN: Joke has been waiting for years.

MARISHA: Yeah, what's up, 2014!

LAURA: Remastered!

MATT: You made it funny again!

LIAM: She's in the game.

SAM: Are you invisible?

LAURA: Yeah, we're still invisible.

TALIESIN: We're friends of Garthak.

LAURA: Garthok?

TALIESIN: Garthok.

LAURA: You're invisible, and you're far back.

MATT: Also, all the figures that were stopped are
slowly crawling in your direction. And one of them

goes, "It's lizardmen. Turn away."

LAURA: It's not lizardmen. Magic.

LIAM: It's a ruse.

MATT: Make a persuasion check, with disadvantage.

LAURA: Oh no!

MATT: Because you're two voices coming out of the
ether right now! They just see a cluster of

lizards in the shadows and voices going, "No,
we're okay!"

(laughter)

WILL: "We're not lizards!"

MATT: "Don't worry, guys!"

LAURA: I rolled a 20, and a one.

MARISHA: Shut up.

LIAM: Also one.

MARISHA: You also rolled a one?! You both rolled
fucking ones?

LIAM: "Cacaw, look over here!"

MATT: The one in the front goes, "Shit! We have to
close it! Run, run!" And all seven just start

running in the direction they were going.

LAURA: Oh, fuck, what do we do? Somebody--

MARY: I go running up! Wait!

LAURA: Drop Seeming, drop Seeming! Drop Seeming,
Scanlan!

LIAM: I'm running after them.

SAM: Okay, okay! I'm dropping Seeming.

MATT: Okay.

LAURA: Please, wait! We're not lizardmen.

SAM: You're still invisible.

WILL: We're not lizardmen!

MARY: Please, wait! Please, do not be afraid. We
are with you.

SAM: Oh, sorry, you're freaky-looking, so--

(laughter)

MARY: I understand that! I'm not a lizard person,
and I have a very high persuasion!

MATT: You do. Double ones is a rough situation.
They have bolted very quickly, and they are not

showing any sign of slowing, and you just hear the
footprints go (stepping sounds).

LAURA and MARY: Shit.

MARISHA: Move fast.

WILL: We can't catch them?

MATT: Well, you're keeping in pace. So, if you
guys full bore, double dashing--

MARY: How far away are they?

MATT: They're beyond your visual sight right now
in the darkness.

MARY: Are they more than 30 feet?

MATT: Yes, they are.

LIAM: I shout out after them, I know Garthok,
he'll recognize me!

MARISHA: He also kind of hates us, I think.

LIAM: Don't care.

MATT: The, mm... Double one, man.

LIAM: Okay. Okay.

MATT: Yeah. No, they're still running. They're
still running.

LAURA: We're still running after them.

MATT: Okay. You guys follow them for the next ten
minutes or so, and you're roughly ten minutes from

sundown, game time, before you hear a door slam
ahead of you.

LIAM: I want to move to that door.

MARISHA: I immediately stop and start looking
behind me. Does this look like we just ran into a trap?

MATT: Make a perception check. Well, this would be
more of an investigation.

LIAM: Are they catching up behind?

MATT: Yeah.

MARISHA: Okay. 21 total.

LIAM: I'm checking the door, too.

MATT: Okay. Looking around, it's hard to see. The
sewer has slowly given way to a non-sewage tunnel

system that looks like it has existed for a long
time. This is reminiscent of some elements of the

Clasp's tunnel system that you've seen before,
though you haven't really been to it this far

south in the city.

MARISHA: Okay. I stand back before I run in with
the rest of them. I don't want to get us all in a

corridor.

MARY: Can we investigate the door?

LIAM: I rolled a 28.

MATT: He's currently doing that right now. You
rolled a 20?

LAURA: I like that you're talking to Matt through
the earring.

LIAM: I'm not talking to Matt, I'm--

(laughter)

LIAM: Laura Bailey, busting my balls since 2000
and something, every chance she gets. But she

"loves me with all her heart!"

(laughter)

LIAM: Don't touch me! 28! Support you left and
right, and this is the thanks I get?

MATT: The door is locked, and the door is
trapped.

LIAM: Scanlan. Will you come up here, please? I've
got my hand on my earlobe for a fucking reason.

SAM: I'm here, what do you need?

LIAM: I need you to talk us into this fucking
doorway.

SAM: For what, are we still trying to get this
Clasp? Ten minutes has gone by. All right, great.

LIAM: Talk to the fuckers on the other side of
this door. You can talk to anybody.

SAM: I knock, knock, knock on the door. And I say,
oi, I know you can hear me in there. Sorry for the

scare. We're friends, and we're here to help you
get a lot of gold.

MATT: Make a persuasion check with disadvantage.

SAM: Because it's through a door.

MATT: And because they--

MARISHA: Because we're assholes.

TALIESIN: You should try and sell them drugs. I
think that would go well.

LAURA: Oh, sell them drugs!

SAM: 28.

MATT: I can guarantee you, they don't have any.

TALIESIN: No, he's got them, he can sell them
off.

MATT: They're the Clasp.

LIAM: They're straight-edge, I know.

MATT: Oh, totally.

WILL: You still don't know if you put it up your
ass or smoke it. How are you gonna sell it?

SAM: I'll find out from them.

MATT: There's a pause, and then a voice comes
through and says, "So. Who are you? What do you

"want? What leaves you the possibility of wandering
these sewers unstabbed?"

SAM: First of all, you, or members of your
organization, know us. We are from Emon. We are

Emonites. Emonies? We're locals. We've traveled
these sewers before, among you. And we will again

tonight if you help us find our way to Thordak. We
are super-powerful superheroes who are gonna kill

a dragon and give you half the gold.

LAURA: Half the gold? Half the gold? Holy.

MATT: There's another pause. Ten, 20 seconds. 30
seconds. Then you hear a winch go (clacking, tink).

Then you hear (door opening sound) and the
door just ever faintly opens, and just a single

face pokes through, hood up. "So. You're allies
against the dragon?"

TALIESIN: Absolutely.

MATT: "How many are you?"

SAM: Well--

(laughter)

SAM: About a half dozen, let's say.

TALIESIN: Twice a half a dozen.

LAURA: I think 12-ish?

SAM: Ten, ten? Some are animals, some are
invisible. Six to 12.

MATT: "We stand 30 strong in this room, crossbows
drawn. Make no mistakes, we will be watching you.

"One false move, you'll all have a bolt in the back
of the skull. Walk with us, we'll see if what you

"say is true."

LIAM: I use Thieves' Cant to knock out the phrase,
"No bullshit," on the door.

MATT: You see his chin move and grind for a
moment.

SAM: I did that with my penis.

(laughter)

MATT: Make a deception check.

(laughter)

MARY: He thinks you're cute.

SAM: 20.

MATT: 20?

LAURA: I like that he goes-- and it's a 20.

MATT: Yeah. (laughs) You see him go-- and slowly
back away. The door opens wider, and as you enter

the room, you can see there's roughly 30 people in
various dark bits of dress. The Clasp had a uniform,

or at least a uniform style to them, when they were
within their safe space. While that still exists, all

of them look tattered. They look underfed. They
look sleepless. And they all look driven. And it's

that cornered animal look that both is welcoming
and also a little scary. And as you all walk in,

they all very intently keep their eyes on you,
their crossbows at their side. They're all

surveying you and taking in and-- You can
definitely see them accepting that you are

powerful in comparison to maybe many of the others
that they've encountered. And that also scares

them. It would be like, 'Good. Fuck,' at the same
time. And as you all walk in, in this sullen

atmosphere, the one that was talking to you pulls
his hood back, and you see it's a younger man,

probably in his late 20s, but his face is just
currently wrecked by some sort of a disease that's

just scarred over.

LIAM: Where is Shenn?

MATT: "You want us to take you to Shenn?"

LAURA: No.

TALIESIN: There's no time, to be honest.

LIAM: Where is he?

MATT: (sighs) "He's probably by the volcanic
pocket. Looks to me-- at least from the word on

"the street-- there's something going on.
Something's going to be happening tonight, and the

"Clasp is getting ready."

WILL: Yeah, we've got about ten minutes until
all hell breaks loose. So if we've got to do this,

we've got to do this now.

LAURA: We've got to get to where Thordak is.

MARY: Is he by this volcanic surge?

MATT: "That he is. (sighs) Travel fast. Travel
light. Follow me." Puts his hood back up, and goes

into a run.

WILL: Go running.

MARY: Naruto.

MATT: You guys all gave chase, at this point, as
fast as you can. Poor Pike is like (panting).

LAURA: Grog picks her up, come on!

MATT: Grog picks her up, as he does. And she's
still like, running in the air before, "Whoa!

"Okay. Thanks." And puts her on his shoulders, and
they're running together. Pike has to duck low a

couple of times as she almost gets her head
knocked off on the low bridge area. Following him

as fast you can, it's around the corner, down low
corners. He's quick. And you can see why certain

people within the Clasp rise quickly, in that
messenger format, is they can get around the city

like that. You begin to get to a point where you
see a few grates up above you, passing 20 feet

up. You start to see more and more sewer openings.
And you hear in the distance the sound of cracking

thunder.

MARY: (whispers) The storm's coming.

SAM: As soon as we get out, Keyleth, you have to
make a storm or something--

MARISHA: Yeah.

SAM: Or a VM or something, right?

LAURA: She can probably do it through the
grates.

SAM: Okay. Hurricane.

MATT: As you continue to run, you can hear up
above, too, what sounds like just the energy

itself is gathering into a loud cacophony of
screeches and roars. It sounds like the populace

that is keeping guard over the currently ruled,
tyrannically held city, the wyverns are restless.

They see something happening, there's something
brewing. And now, not just those below understand,

but those above are starting to get the sense that
things are not right. It's beginning. You begin to

feel and hear bits of rainfall beginning to come
through the grates, just up ahead. The little bit

of light that peeks through, you can see the
droplets now hitting as you run past, overhead.

You hear another bolt of lightning and thunder in
the distance. And another (lightning crack). The

storm is getting faster and more successive and
it's definitely landed in Emon. You continue to

push forward--

MARY: How far are we?

MATT: You shouting ahead of--?

MARY: How much longer?

MATT: "You feel that?"

MARY: Yes.

MATT: "No. Do you feel that?" And you start to
realize, as cold as it is up there, as it has been

in the past, these tunnels are growing warmer, and
warmer, and warmer. "We're not far now." And he's

still running.

LAURA: As I'm running, I'm dipping arrows in
poison.

MATT: Okay.

LAURA: I've got six.

MATT: Okay. So go ahead and mark those--

LAURA: Six vials of poison. So that makes six
arrows or does that make--?

MATT: Each vial can make three poisoned arrows.

LAURA: Three? However many I can make during this
amount of time. Because I know it only lasts

for an hour. So on the tips.

MATT: So per vial is three hours.

LAURA: Awesome!

MATT: It's hard to do while running at this fast pace,
so I'd say you could get maybe two vials done, to be

honest. Because in order to keep up, it's a full
sprint. You're racing against time for this. It's

like, running as hard as you can, and like--

(laughter)

MATT: It's a little hard.

LAURA: It's one of those things I meant to do
earlier.

SAM: Just got to finish knitting this sweater.

(laughter)

MATT: Eventually, you begin watching as these
tunnels, you see collapsed portions of it. You see

the falling rocks that are gathered. You feel the
air itself become humid, become temperate and

uncomfortably warm. The sweat begins to drip down
your brow, and what you recall being the dry heat

of the Marquet deserts is now being matched or
exceeded by the wet, damp, humid underground air

of the subterranean tunnels of Emon. You dart
around the corner and follow him around this

curve, and it's the first time you see a break in
the rock, where a vibrant, bright orange stream of

molten rock is now pouring down, past into some
basin below the walkway. And you see him more

carefully walk around it. And now this pathway has
gone from an original Clasp tunnel to,

essentially, a haphazardly carved or left over and
barely functional tunnel that has been wrecked by

this slow incursion of volcanic activity. You have
about two more minutes of running before he comes

to a stop. And you hear now, what initially was
just the rousing of local lizard creatures and

denizens of Emon, the now-ruling class, the
lightning is every few seconds. And you hear one

loud, ominous, rumbling roar echo through the sky.
And it's a familiar roar. You heard it once,

before the fall of Emon. The storm has awakened,
or at least got the attention of the beast, the

tyrant that now resides over the city of Emon.
And he is not that far from where you stand. The

young man pulls his hood back again and points up,
and you can see that there's one tunnel that leads

up out of the sewer. Part of it is jutting
outward, and it's a slippery pouring of rain now

just gliding off of it and slopping into mud on the
ground. Most of the rungs have been rent off or

fallen through the erosion, or the impression of
this tectonic shift in this localized area. He

points up.

"This is the closest I can get you but I don't
know how you want to climb. Good luck."

And he turns around and darts back where you guys
came from.

MARY: So he's guiding us up and out?

MATT: No, he's gone.

SAM: We've got to get up. So wait, there's a pipe
to climb up?

MATT: It's a three-, four-foot-wide tunnel. It
used to go straight up, but now parts of it are

(ground cracks). It's a little crooked and some of
the initial climbing rungs have eroded away.

LAURA: Can we parkour up?

MATT: Certainly. Go ahead and make acrobatics
checks, both of you guys.

MARY: Can Grog throw us up?

MARISHA: Is there a grate ahead of us? Can I
see the sky?

MATT: There is, but it doesn't-- it looks
partially off.

LIAM: 33.

LAURA: 34.

MATT: Both of you guys, in a networked-twin-type
near-ballet in its execution, darting up in

tandem, both using each other to push off as you
hit each edge, you make your way to the very top

in this crisscross fashion, then one of you gets
up just in time to hit the grate as the other one

hits the other side, sending it onto the ground
outside.

LIAM: Perception check. For anything nearby.

LAURA: By the way, I was totally going to say I
was putting Trinket back in the necklace before

you started saying all that, I was just-- It went
into it right away.

MATT: Okay. Not a worry. Trinket is in the
necklace.

LIAM: 29.

LAURA: Oh, I want to perception check too. Just
because, you know, that 29 isn't going to see

everything.

LIAM: No, you've got to get 30, right?

LAURA: Yeah. No, this is a 23. So--

(laughter)

MATT: You guys both look out. You, Vex, looking
around you, you can see you are in the street. And

you can see there are a number of buildings
around: single-story, second-story, some of them

long-collapsed and burned. Some still have flames
on them that the rain is attempting to put out,

but the fire is fighting back. You, Vax, see the
same spread, and off to the left of you, a

familiar sight. The Cloudtop District wall and
gates, maybe a couple hundred feet off from

your current position. You can see beyond that
just a singular, black column of smoke, with the

occasional flicker of red embers just drifting up
through, fighting against the storm itself. The

rain may fall, but it doesn't seem to last long
enough to hit the ground of the Cloudtop. You see

mist and steam begin to rise up; the rain is
evaporating before it can even get close. You also

see above the gate what looks to be a few dozen
small, dark shapes. You take a moment to focus

before you can see what looks to be-- what were
once people are now blackened husks that have been

left up on chains; decoration, if you will, for
the outside of the Cloudtop. It's a warning, or a

celebration of Thordak's rule. You see, on the
outside of that gate, two large, armored, alert

fire giants, wielding long, thick, square, black
metal blades that themselves have flames

engulfing. And they are both standing there, just
shoulder to shoulder, looking about, on high alert

based on the current chaos of the circumstance.

LIAM: What's between us and them?

MATT: It's road. It's just bare road. You have
buildings to each side, you're just now emerging

from the alleyway, and you are in the center of
the street right now.

LIAM: How far are they from us right now?

MATT: They're a little over a hundred feet.

SAM: Two fire giants?

LAURA: Yeah.

LIAM: I pull Vex out of view--

LAURA: I mean, we're invisible.

LIAM: I know, I don't want to be heard. We've got 
two fucking giants up here, guarding our path--

LAURA: About a hundred feet off, clear view.

SAM: There's no more tunnel down here, right?

MATT: No, it goes for another five or six feet,
and then it is just wrecked, it's collapsed,

ruined--

SAM: We cannot spend our energy fighting these
guys. We have to distract them away and move in

past their position.

MARISHA: I can conjure an elemental. Will it--?

SAM: And one of them will chase it.

LAURA: Is it possible to get up and over the wall,
away from them?

LIAM: Three of us are invisible, but not the rest.
How do we get by?

SAM: Is there a gate behind the line?

WILL: Can we hear this conversation?

SAM: You can hear half of it.

TALIESIN: Two fire giants guarding the gates. We
have to get rid of them.

WILL: Can we get into a building on the other
side?

TALIESIN: It's just a wall, it's defensive. We can
get over the wall, perhaps.

MARISHA: What kind of wall is it?

SAM: 30 feet high?

MATT: It is about roughly 30, 35 feet.

LAURA: Can I peek my head out--?

MATT: Oh! It is a solid, thick, stone wall. It is
designed as a second-tier defense from siege

warfare against the palace and the--

MARISHA: Can I use Stoneshape to stoneshape us a
hole through it?

MATT: You know that it's pretty thick. You're
familiar with the wall. You guys have traveled to

and from the Cloudtop before. Let me see, where's
Stoneshape--

LIAM: Extend the tunnel?

LAURA: Or I can fly up to the top of the wall and
drop the rope down?

MARISHA: The problem is, I don't know how far the
tunnel has collapsed.

TALIESIN: Yeah.

MATT: No more than five feet in any dimension. No,
it's thicker than that.

MARY: Where do you need to go beyond this?

SAM: In there.

MARISHA: I took-- Okay, here's the thing: I took
Move Earth. I can try and tunnel us through. But

that's a pretty big spell.

LAURA: Well, what if--

MATT: Move Earth also takes a while.

LAURA: What if I come out, I fly, I move down away
from the fire giants, I fly up to the top of the

wall and drop the rope down? So everybody can
climb up?

LIAM: But nobody's invisible but ourselves.

WILL: It's too much of a chance, they're going to
see you.

MARY: They're going to see you. How far away are
we from them?

MATT: You're about a hundred feet.

SAM: I can make another three of us invisible. But
that's still not enough.

MARISHA: Do fire giants have any reason to attack
lizard people?

MATT: You don't know.

LAURA: Maybe make lizard people and then pop
over--

SAM: I've just burned a 5th-level spell making us
lizard people once for no fucking reason.

LIAM: And that's dropped at this point?

SAM: Yeah.

MARY: You need a distraction.

SAM: We definitely do.

MARY: Let us do this.

SAM: You two?

WILL: Two of us have to stay.

MARY: Let us do this.

LAURA: What?!

MARY: Let. Us. Do. This.

WILL: We don't have any time.

MARISHA: We need you guys. We need-- we need you.

MARY: You can do this without us.

SAM: Are you going to go out and draw them away?

MARY: We'll try and meet you if we can. In the
meantime, call your people. Do it now.

SAM: Absolutely.

MARY: I cast-- I invoke-- I use a cantrip Mask of
Many Faces. As a lizard person, I go ten feet so

I'm within 90 feet, and I cast Evard's Black
Tentacles on the two fire giants.

TALIESIN: You've got to go out the tunnel first.

MARISHA: I grab Kash by the arm really fast, and I
just say, thank you. And I give him a kiss on the cheek.

WILL: We're way past that.

MARISHA: Just shut up and appreciate it! Go!

MARY: Before I go running out, I grab Vex. I love
you, if I can find you, I will. If not, stay alive.

WILL: I grab Vax real quick. Hey!

LIAM: Yeah?

WILL: Two things.

LIAM: What's that?

WILL: First: it's one-one. And second: don't get
us all dead.

LIAM: All right, cutie.

WILL: Good luck in battle.

MARY: So I go running out. Lizard face. Once I get
out of the tunnel, Mask of Many Faces, lizard. I

just go walking up. Within 90 feet, I cast Evard's
Black Tentacles, hoping to hold them.

MATT: Okay. As she's doing this, anyone else doing
anything else? Are you--?

SAM: I put on Gloves of Climbing to climb up
the thing.

TALIESIN: Spiderwalk.

WILL: Kash just stands with his back to them,
guarding them as they're going up the wall, spear

at the ready.

MATT: Okay.

LIAM: Are you brooming it? I'm holding onto the
broom.

MATT: Okay. You guys go up there.

LAURA: I drop the rope down so Grog and Pike and
everybody else can go up.

MATT: Easy enough. You all eventually get your way
up to the top and duck in an alley. I need you

to roll stealth checks.

TALIESIN: We still have that--

LAURA: Pass Without a Trace that I cast? Yeah--

MATT: All of you would, since it hasn't expired.
It's an hour concentration.

SAM: 27.

LAURA: Can I cast it again?

MATT: No, I mean it's still on. It's an hour
concentration. It'll last until--

TALIESIN: 21.

MATT: Well actually, you cast it right before you
guys got to the keep, right?

LAURA: Right, at the keep.

MATT: No, no-- Yeah, so you do not have it
currently. I'm sorry.

MARISHA: 18.

TALIESIN: 11.

LAURA: Do we get advantage because we're
invisible?

MATT: The invisible folks do, yeah.

LAURA: Ah okay, good.

WILL: (chuckles) Invisible folks.

LIAM: 31.

LAURA: 21.

SAM: 27.

MATT: All right. And-- okay. You guys manage to
dart up-- you notice-- First off, the

wyverns are now coasting by and scooting over the
sky, in groups of ten at a time. And you can see

now as the bolts of energy are starting to hit--
Off in the distance, you see a flash and (lighting

strikes) as one gets taken down by a bolt of
lightning. The wind is now picking up and

beginning to swirl. You watch as they're having a
hard time flying and being harried by the

elements, just darting around and slamming into
them. One of the fire giants sees movement over

in your direction (speaks in Giant), and starts
walking that way as you begin to emerge in your

lizard-person form.

SAM: Can I quietly inspire Kash?

MATT: You can if you like.

SAM: (singing) Kash! King of the Universe! Kash!
Ah-ah! He is the best of us!

WILL: (singing) And his hair was parted in the
middle--

(laughter)

MATT: Take your d12 inspiration die.

WILL: Where's my d12?

MARY: You just hold on to it.

WILL: My gosh-- Oh! Yeah, I'm just holding it.

(laughter)

MATT: So, as you walk forward and lift your hands
up, clutching the staff, you watch as these black

ethereal tentacles burst out of the ground, slam
into the ground, and attempt to wrap around the legs

and lower body of these giants. What is your spell
DC?

SAM: It's been a while since she's played, guys.

MARY: 18.

MATT: 18, all right. The fire giant-- oh! Nope! A
two and a three on their dex save.

(cheering)

MATT: All right. Yeah, so they're both restrained
and they take 3d6 bludgeoning damage, if you

want to go ahead and roll that.

MARY: 3d6? They're restrained! And it's 3d6
bludgeoning damage, which is ten.

SAM: Both of them? You just restrained two fire
giants?! Holy shit!

TALIESIN: Ten is on the good side of 3d6--

MATT: You watch as it pulls them back, their
swords are held at bay, their wrists are bound by

these tentacles, and both of them are being
crushed by it. And the other one-- No one here

speaks Giant, except for Grog.

WILL: I speak Giant.

MATT: You do?

MATT: You and Grog hear it, and it just says,
"Under attack!" in Giant. And as they're both

being held there, as you're holding them in place,
they take the damage. What are the rest of you

guys doing?

MARISHA: I immediately, right above us, create a
little eye-of-the-hurricane. And you know when it

snows and there's a moonbow? A rainbow? I do a
little bit of a moonbow situation.

LAURA: Okay, are we trying to keep stealthed
and then letting Zarah and Kash--

SAM: I think we just go.

TALIESIN: We're going to pass them.

MARISHA: And then we run!

MATT: Okay. You guys all bolt towards the--
there's a 15-foot gap between these two giants

right now. And you're rushing across this, like a
double-dash, you get just to them as it comes to

their go.

LAURA: I thought we were up and over the wall.

SAM: No, no. We were out of the pipe.

LAURA: I understand.

MATT: Yes. At this point, as Keyleth runs and
creates this moonbow in this clearing in the sky,

the wind suddenly doubles in speed in the air,
the bolts come down at twice the pace. You watch

as rooftops are exploding. You see wyverns being
struck and thrown to the ground. You see small

funnel clouds begin to form in portions of the
city, as the cloud itself is beginning to draw.

And you start seeing a similar dark speck to what
you saw in the sky before, coming to land before

you-- You see distant skysails flickering in and
out of the storm, control over this. As this is

happening, as you guys are running with that
symbol, you hear far to the left a large

explosion sound in the distance. It sounded like
an impact against a wall. You get the sense that

it has begun. You guys rush up to the edge of the
door just as the two giants are going to attempt to break

free from the tentacles. That is dexterity.
Strength or dexterity check against your save DC.

So that's going to be helpful, so strength is much
better than the dex. Not with a three! Or a seven.

I'm rolling as bad as I did on--

MARY: Stay right where you are, boys!

MATT: Both of them just still locked in place.
They both try desperately, staring down at you and

growling, you can see the strain as the tentacles are
pulling on them, their swords burning--

MARY: Welcome to hentai!

(laughter)

MATT: --and you're keeping guard there, at the
ready. What are you guys doing? You're at the door now.

SAM: Grog! Can Grog punch through it? I don't--

MATT: "Yes, I can!" And he goes for a full swing
against the door-- Yeah! Oh, man! Okay.

LIAM: (in Grog's voice) Surprise, gents!

MATT: Basically. So that's double-damage with
Siege to the door. Yeah. That is just with his

fist, not even using his axe, just his fist
against the door. The first hit, he dealt 26

points of bludgeoning damage. For the second
strike, he brings up the axe now, as he dented it

inward, and swings with it. Ooh! That's 32 points
of damage to the door. You watch as the fist slams

between the doors, and they're large, large, heavy
wooden doors you're very familiar with that have

metal reinforcements on them on this part of the gate.
The fist slam causes them to shudder at the impact

and shake, but the chains still holding them in
the inside are taut. The axe comes by. As it hits

the edge of the wood and the iron, the wood
splinters, the iron bends, and the hinges actually

(impact) off of one, and the gate slams off the
side, off the top hinge, and you all have to try

to dart out of the way as it swings past. Oh,
man! It's not quite big enough to hit all of you,

and I would say the ones that're at the front line
would probably be the twins and probably Keyleth.

You'd want to stick with them. Well, you'd be back
because of the storm cloud-- Yeah. And Grog,

definitely. So the twins and Grog, I need you guys
to make a dexterity saving throw.

Natural 20 for Grog!

(cheering)

LIAM: Would Evasion work for this?

LAURA: 28.

LIAM: That's a dex save. All right, it's just 20 with
me.

MATT: Okay, it's fine. You guys all duck out of
the way as soon as the door slams into the mud to

the side, the giants still restrained. You all
begin to charge into the space without thinking.

As soon as the opening's there, you dart in as the
giants are restrained. And you guys, what are you

doing at this point? The giants aren't going to be
held for long.

MARY: Kash?

WILL: Can I cast Geas on one and have one attack
the other?

MARY: Swing away, Kash.

WILL: Am I allowed to take control of one of
them?

MATT: Oh, I will see what the-- casting time is
one minute. So that's ten rounds that you have to

cast that spell-- It's not much of a combat spell,
really.

WILL: Because they're flame giants, right? Does a
Flame Strike work on them? Or are they susceptible

to flames, or no?

MATT: That is up to what you might expect.

WILL: Then let's give it a try. We're going to try
to do a 5th-level Flame Strike and see what

happens.

MATT: All righty! Go ahead and roll 4d6 radiant
damage. Both restrained, so they have disadvantage

on the save. Yeah, no.

WILL: I also still have my inspiration, too.

SAM: It won't help here.

WILL: I know. Okay, it's okay. Yeah-- well, no.
It's awful, I-- It's 13. Yeah. 13

MATT: All right. They both take 13 points of
damage. They take no fire damage, they're both

immune to fire. The flames do nothing, but the
radiant burst in itself does singe the exterior of

their bodies. You see them rock with pain as
the blast of light, a column that shoots at them,

bursts into them, has taken effect. Not as much as
you would have wanted, but an effect nonetheless.

You, who are still maintaining concentration on
this spell, what do you want to do?

MARY: What is the radius of Witchbolt? If I drop
Evard's and hit-- they're 15 feet apart from each

other?

MATT: They're 15 feet apart from each other, yes.

MARY: I just don't know what the radius of
Witchbolt is. Can I hit both of them with it?

MATT: With Witchbolt? With Witchbolt, as a--

TALIESIN: You'd need a ten-foot radius to hit both
of them.

MATT: It's going to be a tough call. Let me see--
Witchbolt-- No, no. Witchbolt hits one creature.

MARY: Only hits one creature?

MATT: Yeah. You can still maintain a concentration
spell and do instant spells, if you wanted to.

MARY: Yes! So then I will hold Evard's Black
Tentacles and use a cantrip of Eldritch Blast and

Agonizing Blast? Can I do that?

MATT: Yeah, it's part of the ability. So, yeah,
you can do that. Make three spell attack rolls.

SAM: Three spells?! She's so powerful!

MATT: It's all against one guy or it's--? How are
you splitting it up?

MARY: I'm going to hit two on the left, one on the
right.

MATT: Two on the left, one on the right.
Okay. Go for it.

MATT: Your spell attack bonus is--?

MARY: Plus 12, so 15. Plus Agonizing Blast--

MATT: That only adds to damage.

MARY: 15.

MATT: So the first one you fire at? It arcs past
and hits the door behind, hitting the

where the already damaged door 
fell off the hinges.

MARY: It's 20--

MATT: That hits. Go ahead and roll-- So you've hit
one, now roll for hitting the other.

MARY: Oh, natural 20.

MATT: Okay! So go ahead and your roll damage on that.
Roll your d10 plus seven. What's the first one?

LAURA: 2d10?

MATT: No, it's 1d10 for the first roll, next one
is the critical.

MARY: That's a ten.

MATT: And roll one more time.

MARY: Plus my charisma?

MATT: Correct. Add that in there. So go ahead and
roll for your critical now.

MARY: Six. Plus my charisma, which is eleven,
right?

MATT: Great! So you blast both of them and they're
still held in place. You guys run past. They're

both taking hits from Zahra, but they're both more
focused on the people that are being led through

the gate they were ordered to watch. And--

LIAM: How far are the twins from the giant?

MATT: You guys just ran through into the--

LIAM: Right through?

LAURA: We want to take sneak attacks on both of
them.

MATT: Go for it.

And five and a seven, they cannot make their
checks for shit.

LAURA: First one hits. And then 21, does that
hit?

MATT: Hits.

LAURA: Okay, do I get three attacks-- oh, no, no,
no, I'm not clicking the boots yet.

LIAM: 21. So 21 hits?

MATT: 21 hits, yeah.

LAURA: Augh, what's happening?!

LIAM: Okay, so the first one was-- All the dice,
all the dice.

LAURA: So, 15 for the first hit. 22 for the
second.

LIAM: 36 for my first, and eight for my second.

LAURA: And just keep running.

MATT: And keep running, okay. All right, so you
guys lob those attacks as you're rushing past, you

guys see-- actually, both of you guys roll
perception checks.

WILL: 14.

MARY: 12.

MATT: 12. You just make it-- you, Kashaw, out of
the corner of your eye, you notice the buildings

that were on fire, the flames that were burning
amidst the storm, you watch as one of the flames leaps

out of the house. And a number of other flames
begin to rise up as living, flaming entities that

are making their way towards you. And you can
quickly see that this is about to become--

WILL: Awesome.

MATT: --awesome.

(laughter)

MATT: But as you see Vox Machina running into the
Cloudtop District and disappearing into the

surrounding clouds and fume.

WILL: May the gods be with you.

LIAM: Totally minor, I didn't add my regular bonus
for dex and all that, so add another eight to my

damage.

MATT: Okay, got it.

MARY: So they're leaving.

MATT: You got them in.

MARY: Go! Go! We'll find you if we can! In the
meantime, my love, shall we have some fun?

WILL: Let's do this thing, baby!

MARY: Yeah!

MATT: You guys hear the distant sounds of battle
conflict inside the wall and far beyond. You hear,

in the distance, the weird, vibrating fuzzy echo
of hundreds and hundreds of voices shouting in

unison. The battle's upon Emon. However, that
moment quickly shifts as you're walking through

this volcanic fume; the air itself is sulfurous,
and there are gouts of poison that spill forth

from cracked earth. You can see points, little
bursts of glowing, molten rock that break through

the surface and pour and then cool and create
these small, miniaturized volcanic spires. You can

see the burned, destroyed, crumbled remnants of
the buildings-- the noble houses, the beautiful

mansions that used to make up the entirety of the
Cloudtop District. The homes that you'd look at

and think, "God, one day it'd be great to live in
something as beautiful as that," reduced to ash

and cinder.

Your run slows as you begin to see this large
crater wall that lifts up through the smoke, a lip

that then vanishes over the edge where the smoke
is pouring out like a thick column, a slow-moving,

stationary tornado of black that pours into the
sky. As you watch, two large, bulbous, scaled red

arms shoot forth from the center, as one long,
unfurling dragon neck rises up. You see the red

crystalline brow itself, like jagged daggers of
flame burst across the face as it rises up beyond

the smoke. The teeth, impossibly long and pointed
for something of this size. The eyes, not red, not

yellow, but burning beams of pure white light,
like a small sun exists in each eye. As it lifts

its whole form upwards out of the hole, the wings
unfurl, the wind itself pushing all the smoke out,

clearing the Cloudtop for but an instant, to see
its massive, swollen form. You also notice that

within its chest, this large, thick scar, but no
crystal. Just a large, bulbous, grown-over, thick

piece of scaled scar.

As it stands towering above all of you, peering
over the distance, not even noticing you at the

moment, surveying the chaos around in Emon, its
face drops, and you hear this voice gurgle up from

within. Sourceless, almost, in its immensity, in
its encompassing nature, it says,

"It appears that we have guests. Where are you?"

And that's where we'll end tonight's episode.

(cheering and screaming)

MARISHA: Can we all take a nervous swig of our
fire resistance potions? Like, right now? Like glug, glug, glug!

MATT: It's to the instance where, right now,
there's so much going on that Thordak is having

this Superman moment where he closes his eyes and
hears all the screams in the city at once. So you

don't know if he knows where you are yet, or has
seen you, he just knows that something's here. And

that's where we're going to pick up next session.

LIAM: Double-fisting them, gulp gulp!

TALIESIN: Smoke 'em if you got 'em! I'm going
to vape-- I'm going to vape my fire resistance.

MATT: I'm pretty sure you can get that at Critical
Vapes.

TALIESIN: Oh yeah! You can get that there.

MARY: Critical Vapes!

LAURA: Shout out!

LIAM: Merry deathmas, everyone.

TALIESIN: Merry deathmas.

SAM: What happens to Kash and Zahra?!

MATT: They're currently preventing you guys
from having to deal with Thordak and two fire

giants and a bunch of elementals.

SAM: But how do we know what happens?!

TALIESIN: We don't die.

MATT: Don't die and you'll find out.

WILL: The Kash and Zahra show, starting next week
on Wednesdays.

(laughter)

MATT: If only.

LAURA: It's just a buddy cop movie.

MARY: We're in a really old Mustang the whole
time.

WILL: He's a little bit country; she's a little
bit dragon.

(laughter)

TALIESIN: I would watch the fuck out of that.

MATT: Yeah, I would. Oh my god. That's the best
version of Dallas I've ever heard of. Which has an

RPG book.

WILL: No!

MATT: Oh yeah.

SAM: You can roleplay Dallas?

MATT: Yeah! I'm trying to find a copy of it. But
anyway, that's neither here nor there. We'll be

here next week for the showdown with Thordak the
Cinder King in the center of Emon! You guys, you

avoided a lot. You beelined to Thordak.

LAURA: We were out of time!

MATT: We would have gone into this next time. I
was preparing for Thordak--

MARY: Always rely on tentacles.

TALIESIN: If anime has taught you anything--

MATT: Don't tell the internet that.

MARY: If anime has taught us anything--

MATT: I know! No, I was expecting this Thordak
encounter to either happen next week or in the first

two weeks of January when we come back from the
break, I wasn't sure when. You bypassed a bunch there.

WILL: Great way to end the year, though.

MATT: It is a good way to end the year!

LIAM: (singing) Here comes Cinder Claus, here
comes Cinder Claus, right down Cinder Claus Lane!

MARY: Yeah, it's just the two of us and the fire
giants!

WILL: While I sit back and watch her kick some
ass!

TALIESIN: I thought you were dead, Fred!

MARISHA: You told me they were dead!

LIAM: We need Brian Blessed now!

TALIESIN: We need Brian Blessed! We need Brian
Blessed for everything!

MATT: I don't disagree with this.

TALIESIN: He might be down.

MATT: We'll see you guys next week for this crazy
showdown. Rest well, thank you Loot Crate and

Magic Puzzle Quest for being our awesome sponsors
for tonight's episode. Thank you all for your

patience. Thank you, Will and Mary, for joining
us.

WILL: Thanks for having us, you kidding? Thanks for
having us back.

MARY: Thank you so much!

MARISHA: Thanks for sacrificing yourself.
Hopefully you're not dead.

WILL: It's the only show where you can walk by,
"Hey, thanks, hope you're not dead."

LAURA: Are we allowed to say, Brian, that they're
going to be on Talks Machina?

BRIAN: (offscreen) Yeah!

MARY: So we're going to be on Talks Machina on
Tuesday. With that Brian Foster man!

SAM: Are you going to be on Talks Machina?

MATT: I don't know.

LAURA: No, we can't know his secrets just yet!

SAM: But if you were on Talks Machina, then you
could do this whole fight on Talks Machina.

(laughter)

MATT: I've been on a lot of Talks Machina
recently, and I could probably use a Tuesday night off.

MARY and WILL: Yeah.

MATT: Especially to prepare for this.

LAURA: Plus I don't want to know any secrets
before we go into this fight.

MATT: I wouldn't tell you any secrets regardless,
which is why I'd be a very boring guest next week.

I'd be like: I don't know. That's a great
question.

MARISHA: You Don't Know: The Show.

MATT: Exactly. All right, guys, thank you so much,
guys. Thank you guys, have a wonderful weekend.

We'll see you next Tuesday for Talks Machina and
Thursday for the finale, possibly, much love and

is it Thursday yet? See you soon.

[music]