[no audio]

--break into a coughing fit at the
top of the game. You all right, Liam?

LIAM: I said a bad word. I got the soap.

MATT: That's called karma. First and foremost,
we're going to get through our announcements for

the evening so we can hop into the game. First
off, tonight's awesome sponsor returning to us is

Backblaze.

SAM: Yeah, are we good, guys? Are we good? What's
going on over there? There's lots of people

pulling out their hair.

OFFSCREEN: I think we're having sound issues.

MATT: Okay. Hold on just a second.

SAM: A lot of people doing this. (panicked
sounds)

TRAVIS: Out of sync, is what they're saying.

OFFSCREEN: All right, Twitch has sound.

SAM: Twitch has sound? We're good to go?

MATT: All righty. So Sam.

SAM: Hi. You know, Backblaze is one of our top two
favorite sponsors.

(laughter)

SAM: We love them to death. They love us. They are
Critters. In fact, coming up later, you should

tune in to the break to see their newest ad. It's
made for Critters by a Critter. Backblaze is

unlimited cloud backup for Macs and PCs for just
five dollars a month. I actually use it. All my

shit's backed up. Tonight, I prepared a word game
for all of you to compete. You have to buzz in.

You have to give me the answer. I can give you two
clues, like two words, and you buzz in and tell me

what the words are. Here's a hint. Here's a clue:
all the answers are the same. Okay, so like, for

instance, if I were to say, the rear part of your
chest and what a fire does--

LAURA: Backblaze.

SAM: Backblaze, that's right. One point for Laura.
Okay. Here the game begins. The opposite color of

white, and the topmost part of a helicopter.

TRAVIS: Black blades!

(laughter)

SAM: Classical composer Johann Sebastian, and a
hairstyle made popular by Pippi Longstocking.

LAURA: Bach braids!

SAM: Laura Bailey. Two points.

MARISHA: Is there a buzzer system?

SAM: You just have to say it.

Pages of paper bound together and a climbing
or rappel technique.

TRAVIS: Binder rappel!

LAURA: Brad! No.

TRAVIS: Book rappel. Book belay. Book belay!
(laughs) I'm the smartest man alive!

SAM: Is it two-to-two right now?

LAURA: I thought pages binded together. I was
going to say brad.

SAM: Okay, this is not a real game. I invented
this on the drive over! Okay, one more. You know

what? You guys aren't playing anymore. This is
between Laura and Travis. You know what? I'm going

to do two more, just because I love them. Popular
Ben Folds Five song, and the abrasive sound a

donkey makes.

LIAM: Brick bray!

SAM: Brick bray, yes! One more. One more. To get
stoned and to get stoned. It's bake blaze. Anyway,

Bakeblaze is an unlimited cloud backup for Macs
and PCs. It can backup fanart, fanfic, music,

photos, videos, drawings, documents, all of your
data. You can restore by mail. If you crash,

they'll send you a hard drive. It's amazing. Go to
backblaze.com/criticalrole.

(cheering)

MATT: Thank you, Bakeblaze, for your sponsorship.
All right. Let me get through the next few

announcements really quick, then. You guys got to
see a video before this that Geek and Sundry put

together. It was a fun weekend shoot to talk about
the game Masquerada. I talked about it in previous

episodes, but it's an awesome PC RPG. I am so in
love with the process of us putting this together.

It's a great story, fantastic cast, incredible
writing, and very much hearkens to the isometric,

Baldur's Gate, Planescape Torment-style RPG format
of the early 2000s. I highly recommend it. You

should check it out. I think it's in Steam now,
and hope you like it. Next up, my first episode of

the new GM Tips series is out today. It goes a
little behind my screen, and gives some ideas as

to how you can set up your own GM circumstance and
experience. Mind you, most of it's just fluff. You

don't need any of that to run a game. You can just
have books, dice, paper, and pens, and you're good

to go. But these are just suggestions and an
example of the things that I do to run my game

smoothly, and you should check it out if you'd
like it. New episodes will be coming out every

Wednesday on Alpha, I suppose, and then on
Thursdays coming out on YouTube and the website

proper.

TRAVIS: Is it pronounced GM tips, or gmmm tips?

MATT: Gmmm tips. They are now. It is now Matthew
Mercer's Gmmm Tips. Thank you, Travis.

Disadvantage.

(laughter)

MATT: So check that out. Also, my last
announcement for me. There's a project up on

Kickstarter right now called Open Legend RPG. It's
a cool new RPG system. Both myself and Ed

Greenwood, the creator of Faerun and the Forgotten
Realms, are contributing to this project. It looks

pretty cool, people involved are really nice, and
go ahead and check it out, see if it's your jam.

And if it is, you should go ahead and help support
it, so check it out. It's Open Legend RPG. That's

all my announcements. Does anybody else have
anything they want to talk about?

LAURA: What about our Halloween costume
competition?

SAM: Oh, yeah!

LAURA: I've been seeing some of them. It's
Critical Costumes, is the hashtag, right?

SAM: #CriticalCostumes. You explained the
competition?

LAURA: Yeah. Next week, I think, is where we're
stopping. Halloween will be the last day?

MARISHA: On Halloween.

LAURA: Halloween's the last day to submit, and
then we're all just going to look at all your

costumes and just decide who we like.

MARISHA: I will say I had a cat dress up as my
character, so the bar is pretty high.

LAURA: I saw a really amazing Vex today. I'm just
saying, I may be biased.

SAM: So just to be clear, the winners are not
going to be announced next week. It's the week

after.

MATT: No, the week after. The first Thursday of
November, we'll be announcing the winners.

SAM: We don't know what the prizes are. But it
will include my shirts.

LIAM: Your sweaty shirts.

LAURA: But not that shirt.

SAM: Yeah, this is my shirt. Forever.

MATT: One of these days, you're going to wake up,
put a shirt on, and the universe is going to fold

in on you. I'm excited. All righty. Anything else?
All right, then. That being the case, let's go

ahead and dive down into tonight's episode
of Critical Role.

[dramatic music]

MARISHA: --balanced breakfast!

MATT: Welcome back, everyone. I just physically
ordered the other torch, so that'll be fixed soon.

Because sometimes you just got to do it yourself.
Anyway, welcome back. So to continue from where we

left off for tonight's episode of Critical Role,
Vox Machina, our heroic players and characters, in

fighting their way across the land of Tal'Dorei
against the Chrome Conclave, a gathering of

ancient chromatic dragons that have torn the
current civilization asunder. They've gathered a

number of artifacts of old called the Vestiges of
Divergence and recently made allies with one of

these dragons, Raishan, the green dragon of the
conclave, apparently interested in revolting

against the conclave's leader, Thordak the Cinder
King. A tentative alliance has been forged and to

prove both the stalwartness of that alliance, as
well as to further your agenda against the

conclave, you all traveled back to Wildemount, to
the ruins of Draconia. With the help of the

Ravenites you set a trap for Vorugal, the Frigid
Doom. You summoned, using your single Gate scroll,

from the Abyss, Yenk the Goristro, a great,
powerful siege demon and caused it to battle with

the white dragon. Partway through, the encounter
got more intense, you all rushed into the fray. Got

the crap kicked out of you in a lot of cases but
when all was said and done, with the aid of

Raishan, you felled Vorugal. The final shot being
landed by Vex'ahlia herself.

LAURA: Thank you.

MATT: You guys have now taken a moment. You've
discussed with Raishan to meet back in Whitestone,

after which she reverted form and vanished. And
you've now begun to collect your spoils and gather

what you can from the battlefield at this moment.
So that's where we pick up this week. What would

you like to do?

LIAM: Man, we've gotta find Larkin.

LAURA: Did you have dragon bits you wanted to
gather?

MARISHA: I did, very much so.

TALIESIN: And some Yenk, I imagine.

MARISHA: A little bit of Yenk, a little bit of
dragon.

LAURA: I got a little Yenk blood
already.

MATT: You did.

LIAM: Brazen, guys.

MATT: All right, so, you're heading to the dragon
or Yenk first?

MARISHA: Dragon.

MATT: Okay, so you head to the dragon.

Okay. So you guys head over there. You now see
partially elements of the wall that had crumbled

in on Vorugal's body. You see now, emerging from
the center of the scales in the chest as it lays

on its back, slain, its throat torn out by
Raishan, a piercing tree begins to burrow its way

through the torso of the dragon and bloom
outwards. Waiting for that process to finish, you

bring out your carving dagger and--

MARISHA: I patiently wait for the tree.

MATT: Okay.

MARISHA: I don't want to interrupt. That's rude.

MATT: It grows pretty fast as part of the
enchantment of Fenthras. So, that brief pause

completed, you go to town with your blade on the
dragon's corpse. Let's go ahead and make a check

on this. This would be--

MARISHA: Nature, right?

MATT: Yeah.

MARISHA: With advantage. Oh, that's good. 28.

MATT: 28, okay. It'll take you the better part of
about an hour to really harvest everything you

want from this that's usable, and that's with aid
from Scanlan, because it's a very big dragon, and

that's a pretty small blade. So you begin that
process.

LAURA: I can help. I want to go up and carve a
bear onto the tree growing out of Vorugal.

TALIESIN: I may lend my cut-dragon-like-butter
blade to this whole process.

MATT: Okay.

SAM: Can I just pull off a scale? A single scale.
Is that really hard to do?

MATT: Make a strength check.

SAM: Two.

MATT: You spend the next minute and a half going
(grunting sounds). It's not budging.

SAM: It's actually three.

MATT: Oh, the next minute and 20 seconds going
(grunting sounds).

SAM: Great.

MATT: You do manage to found a couple loose scales
on the ground nearby after you've thoroughly

embarrassed yourself.

SAM: I'll grab one and then I'll immediately start
yelling for Tooma. (yelling) Tooma!

MATT: Okay, while he's doing that, what are you
guys doing?

TRAVIS: Right, so the dragon's got booty, right?

LAURA: Yeah, like a lot.

TRAVIS: So I look over and they're working on the
dragon bits. Everything's cool? Yenk is like

melting into the snow, right, because he's like a
hell fiend or whatever?

MATT: Yeah.

TRAVIS: I take off running towards the lair.

LAURA: Grog!

SAM: I'm going to go with.

MATT: Grog's already run off. Scanlan's
following.

SAM: I'm going to Polymorph into an eagle.

LAURA: Fucking fuck! Do you guys have this?

MARISHA: Yeah.

LAURA: Give me a claw. I want a claw to wear around
my neck.

MARISHA: You're going to be like Mr. T.

LAURA: I want something to wear around my neck.
Fucking something, all right!

TALIESIN: We'll find something.

LAURA: I'll take off on the broom after Grog.

LIAM: Just scooping up Pike into a bit of a piggy
back ride and carrying her inside and we're going

to rest.

MATT: Okay. She's thoroughly hurt, but you still
have the entrance to the mansion. Yeah, so you

guys pull into there to rest for the moment. While
Grog, as you're running, this eagle comes up to

your side, is gaining on you a bit. As you come
over the top of this one little ridge area, as the

ravine begins to widen and head towards the lair
portion that Vorugal was using, you see before you

a group of about 22 or so armored dragonborn that
are currently jogging up the ramp in your

direction. As soon as you cross over the top they
come to a slower point, with their weapons out,

and you see one of them raise its hand. You
recognize Skork, who you met earlier, who goes,

"We've come to aid you!"

TAVIS: I'm still raging using Persistent Rage and
I point over my shoulder and yell, Dragon that way!

And I keep running past them.

MATT: All right! They pick up their weapons and keep
running past you as you [whoosh] through them, the eagle

following closely after.

SAM: Is Tooma with them?

MATT: Tooma is not with them, no.

LAURA: I followed too. I am following as well.

MATT: Yeah, you coast up behind, you begin
catching up to Grog and the wayward eagle. You're

the fastest of everything right now.

SAM: I'm following him.

MATT: So you're staying back at same speed. Okay.
As you guys begin carving, you begin hearing the

footsteps approaching of numerous dragonborn. The
rest of you guys continue down the path. You see

the icy throne, if you will, of where Vorugal had
placed as the new lair on this northern portion of

the ravine. You guys that are staying behind, as
you're carving your way into the dragon, all of a

sudden you hear the footsteps and a bunch of these
dragonborn, armored, with scavenged pieces,

leather hide with metallic bits of armor. Weapons,
definitely not of the highest degree from what you

can tell, though some are ornate and seemingly
unused, maybe scavenged from the fall of Draconia.

They approach and slow their jog and look over
at the destroyed corpse of the dragon.

MARISHA: Hi.

TALIESIN: Things went well.

MARISHA: Man, how long of a jog is that?

MATT: They all look confused at each other and
start talking to each other in a language you

don't understand.

MARISHA: Man, ooh, Vex isn't here.

TALIESIN: No. All good. Good.

TRAVIS: Fuck.

MATT: They nod and Skork gives a respectful nod
and they all approach the dragon's corpse and

start hacking into it.

MARISHA: Oh no, wait, no. Hold on.

TALIESIN: No. I'm going to point at all-- you all,
sun goes down, all of us drink back there.

Go back. Everything's fine.

MATT: Skork takes two steps forward and goes, "I
understand this speak."

TALIESIN: Oh, why didn't you say something? You're
standing there making us very nervous.

MATT: (disgruntled grunt) "Look. We have to come
to aid you in the battle as promised. You have

"seemingly done well without our presence. So let's
all harvest the uses of what remains of this beast."

TALIESIN: I'm fair with that, all right. Harvest
gently. We're trying to keep as much of it--

MARISHA: Yes, I'm working right here on this area
and Vex wants a claw.

MATT: "Take what you wish. We are interested
in hide and meat."

TALIESIN: And we are interested in scale, tooth,
and claw, and maybe some eyeballs, so that works

out very well.

MARISHA: And blood.

MATT: "Perhaps some teeth and claws as well. We
shall trade." (speaks Draconic) All of them rush

up and start hacking into the soft portions of the
underbelly, where it's been exposed from where you

guys have left large wounds and such and basically
start to carve huge bits of dragon meat off the body.

TALIESIN: Mind the tree. Mind the tree.

MATT: One of them was going for the tree and stops
like-- And then looks very confused that the tree

wasn't piercing through the dragon, but was rooted
inside of it. They all take a moment to start

carving around it. It's a very awkward. They don't
know what the hell happened and it looks very

strange from an outsider's perspective, but
they're trying to adjust best they can.

TRAVIS: New town square will be built around it.

MATT: In the meantime, the three of you guys coast
down towards the lair. You can still see all the

ice spires that are jutting out from portions of
the snow, the various dragonborn corpses still

adorning a number of the spires. As you begin to
approach the throne of Vorugal, you can see

there's a group of about 15 or so dragonborn
currently there that are starting to climb up and

get to that portion to inspect. You see, first,
before anyone else does, Vex, that one of them

appears to be Tooma, who is walking with this
gnarled staff that she keeps to her side. And

they're all approaching and climbing up the sides
of the throne to get to the top.

LAURA: I shout out, don't go up there!

MATT: You shout that and there's a moment of
pause. Then, all of them turn and look in your

direction.

LAURA: I fly down close to Tooma and say quietly,
Thordak has means of seeing through the stones up

there. If you go up top, it's possible he'll be
able to know that Vorugal has fallen. He might

already know.

MATT: "This is good to know." (speaks Draconic)
And the dragonborn around slowly pull backwards.

You understand her saying, "Hold off. Words of
warning." They all pull back and gather around

you, and stand, awaiting what this conversation is
going to entail as Tooma steps forward to you. "So

"am I to understand, then, that the dragon has
fallen?"

LAURA: (laughing) Yes.

SAM: I'll drop my form and throw the scale in
front of her. It's done. There's your fucking

dragon.

MATT: She looks over at the rest of the people who
are all looking towards her for confirmation. She

goes, "You came to us with words. You stood behind
them. You displayed honor and honesty, things we

"find rare in supply outside of our people. Us, the
Ravenites, survivors of chain and frost, are now

"truly free. We thank you."

LAURA: And we thank you.

SAM: But we'll need something more than just
thanks. We have two requests to make of you. One,

this is not the final fight. There will be more,
and unlike this fight, we would expect your aid in

the next one. Is that something you can guarantee
us?

MATT: "I am curious as to what you require from
us."

SAM: We don't know yet, but you have many men, and
they seem like good fighters, so we may call upon

you in the future.

MATT: "Against what foe?"

LAURA: Thordak the Ancient. He was commander of
all of these dragons.

MATT: You see her face immediately goes from that
calm, welcoming, elated expression she had a

moment ago to this guarded, retracted position
where she shifts her weight onto the back leg and--

LAURA: You are not beholden to us. We ask this of
your own free will. All of Tal'Dorei is at risk.

MATT: "We are not an army. We wish to help in this
fight, for we had a stake in it, both of us. This

"was a mutual arrangement. You owe us nothing. We
owe you nothing. But we are not ready to continue

"the fight immediately with a more dangerous foe
than this one."

SAM: Hopefully, it won't be immediately. And might
I remind you that you did not help us in this

fight. We did it all by ourselves.

MATT: "Who do you think arranged, through previous
conversation, to send the dragon your way into the

"trap that you had sprung? At my suggestion of the
place of proper, and most conventional and helpful

"circumstances?"

LAURA: It's true, Scanlan, they did help a lot in
that regard.

MATT: "We may not have the might to finish the
dragon--"

SAM: You told us that you would have men there to
help us, and there was nothing. We almost died.

MATT: "We sent men your way!"

SAM: You knew when the fight was.

MATT: "We knew when to begin the fight, but we do
not have means of travelling as fast as a dragon!"

TRAVIS: I'm running around like a cracked-out PCP
addict in the background. Just looking on the

ground for booty, that's all.

MATT: Perception check.

TRAVIS: One.

(laughter)

MATT: There is snow and ice and it's pissing you
off!

TRAVIS: I'm doing the dog thing.

MATT: More snow. More and more snow. In the middle
of this conversation, some of it starts spattering

the side of Vex. You're like, "Stop it!" Angrily
rage-looting nothing. (laughs)

LAURA: Draconia has had a history of separating
itself from the rest of Tal'Dorei. This is an

opportunity for you to welcome other
communities, to become part of the rest of the world.

MATT: "You are right. [no audio] And from this, I think we
could try to rebuild, a new home for the

"dragonborn of Wildemount. Learn from the mistakes
of our predecessors and our oppressors. We are no

"majestic mage nation by any means, but we can
learn."

LAURA: You are strong.

MAT: "They are strong. My time is nearly up. But
what time I have left, I fully intend to make sure

"that there is a future for my people. For the
Ravenites."

SAM: One more request, before we go. Once we're
long gone, you can feel free to inspect this hill

where the dragon slept, and be very careful in
disarming any traps that you might find there. I

would ask you one favor for us: we lost a friend
in this fight, a dragonborn. He's buried near

here. We'll tell you where. We would like a proper
tomb for him on this hill, where the dragon slept.

Could you build a statue, a fine statue, a
handsome statue of Tiberius Stormwind, and bury

him underneath it. And on the pedestal, could you
please write, "I encourage peace."

MATT: She looks over at one of the nearby
dragonborn. "This is Korsa. He is our finest

"stonesmith. I will see to it that it is done."

SAM: Teach your people of him, your offspring,
that he was a brave dragonborn that wanted to

unify all of your peoples.

MATT: "This can be done. (sighs) This mound
represents the spoils of the remains of Draconia

"the dragon greedily stole, hoarded, and forced us
to gather at the base of its icy seat. This will

"be the beginning of our new nation, and with this,
we will make sure this statue comes to bear."

SAM: Good luck.

TRAVIS: Where the fuck is it?! That's all you hear
me say.

(laughter)

SAM: What are you looking for?

TRAVIS: Help me look!

SAM: For what? What are we looking for?

TRAVIS: Just dig!

(laughter)

TRAVIS: Can I make another perception check,
please?

MATT: No.

TRAVIS: No?!

MATT: You can, Scanlan.

SAM: What am I looking for? Grog, what am I
looking for?

TRAVIS: We're looking for that booty.

SAM: Booty? Just dragon booty? It would be up
where the dragon sleeps, not down here.

LAURA: There's some under the ice right here.

SAM: All right, I will peer down into the ice
below us with my 21 perception.

MATT: Okay. You glance down, and after pushing
some of the snow out of the way, it's amazing that

Grog didn't see this at all, but not really when
you think about it. Encased in this pedestal that

Vorugal had taken as a perch, beneath multiple
feet of thick, locked ice, you see an incredible

amount of hoarded gold, silver, platinum
glittering as bits of light break through the

overhead clouds, as the sleet is still raining
down in places. Bits of it gleam and shift and

shimmer. You can see finely crafted knick-knacks
and statues and gems and antiqued metals all

buried deep beneath this platform. It looks to be
pieces of ornate armor and weaponry, all sorts of

a random assortment of items that are locked
beneath feet of ice, right there before you.

SAM: Nothing there, Grog. Sorry.

TRAVIS: No! It has to be here somewhere!

SAM: (whispering) Just look right there, friend.

TRAVIS: What?

SAM: (whispering) Right there.

TRAVIS: Where? What?

SAM: He's my BFF.

TRAVIS: I see it?

MATT: Oh yeah, once he points it out, you
immediately clarify and the red haze that was

covering your eyes suddenly fades and you see
shiny.

TRAVIS: Can I use the siege portion of the
Titanstone Knuckles and start smacking the shit

out of this ice trying to get down there?

MATT: Yes, you can.

TRAVIS: Just like (smashing noises).

MATT: Yeah. (laughs)

TRAVIS: I deal double damage against objects or
structures.

MATT: Yeah, and as you start, each punch, the ice
(splintering noise) more cracks begin to spider

out. An incredible feat of strength and you can
see the dragonborn take a few steps back at this

view, and Tooma is almost intrigued at this point,
staring with this grin across her face as this

symbolic destruction of what represented Vorugal's
lording over their entire life is being ripped

apart by this half-giant madman. A few more
punches through and a whole portion slides off and

you have to move out of the way. You knock it
aside with your fist and keep punching through and

eventually you get about, over the next ten or 15
minutes, breaking through enough of the ice that

you start hitting (clanging), starting to hit the
actual outskirts of this large pile of gold pieces.

LAURA: Wait, Grog. Can I check for any traps or is
it like totally fine? Because I've been here

before and it's not pleasant.

TRAVIS: I really wouldn't mind.

LAURA: Investigation? 18?

MATT: Okay, glancing about best you can in the
vicinity, you don't see any traps.

LAURA: What about the gemstones? Those are up
high. I'm staying away from those.

SAM: We're outside the perimeter of the gemstones
or the the main portion of the lair, right?

MATT: Yeah, the orbs are embedded in the top
restful area. The actual hoard is hidden, locked

beneath the ice at the base of this large
platform, so you're essentially punching through

the bottom portion. Much like any sandcastle, the
further you go, the less structural integrity it

has. You're starting to make headway into
releasing and finding access to some of the horde

yourself.

TRAVIS: We need heat, and more than my wee urine
can generate.

SAM: I can give us a little bit of fire?

TRAVIS: Yeah, I mean, or get Keyleth over here.

LAURA: Do you have dragon's breath?

MATT: She points to two of them and brings them
over and two of the dragonborn step forward and

release this torrent of flame into the area that
you've already carved out.

SAM: Ooh, they can do that?

MATT: Yeah, it only lasts a few seconds and it
causes a portion of it to melt back, but it's

still extremely strong ice and it didn't have as
much of an impact as you hoped it would've. This

is very, very sturdy white dragon-conjured,
ice-protected walls.

LAURA: Just keep on punching it, Grog.

TRAVIS: Really?

LAURA: Just punch it. You're doing some good
damage.

TRAVIS: But no fireballs?

SAM: I have a fireball. I'll send a fireball over
there. Back up a little bit.

TRAVIS: Why? What if I want to be close?

SAM: Well, you'll get burned.

LIAM: You're way down by 101 hit points, though.

TRAVIS: I know. Yeah, I'm still up in the three
digits. Let's make it exciting.

SAM: I'm not going to burn you, Grog. Just take
ten feet.

TRAVIS: All right, all right! Ten feet!

SAM: All right, I'll send a wand of fireballs
down. I don't know, is that magic actually hot

when it goes off?

MATT: Yeah, it's hot and it's an explosion. It's
not just fire. It's an explosion. So it detonates

from the inside of that small concave path that you
had punched through and as it hits and detonates

you can see the ice further crack. The ice begins
to crack even further and portions of it, you see

a bit of snow bank that had gathered at the top
shakes free and off the side, revealing some of

the upper platform.

SAM: We don't want to make too much of a
disturbance here.

LAURA: No, we don't.

SAM: Let's just take some stuff on the outside.

TRAVIS: Is there any free platinum or gold or
little bits I can start to put in my hands?

MATT: Yeah, you can start scooping bits.

LAURA: You might want to ask Tooma if she has a
problem with you taking all of Draconia's gold.

TRAVIS: You saw what his face did, didn't you?
Tooma, we are about to unsheathe and reveal a

great fortune, of which we have very little
interest because honestly it weighs us down.

We're, like, plenty loaded already. However, it is
a tradition to take little bits here and there as

keepsakes.

MATT: "The spoils here were largely collected from
the wreckage of our captors and much of the gold

"here was earned through our blood and turmoil.
However, we were able to free ourselves and have

"access to this fortune a great deal thanks to your
aid. We are more than willing to divide this

"between your folk and ours."

TRAVIS: That sounds most generous. Shall we look
for specifically interesting little bits, or just

grab the platinum?

SAM: Just grab whatever's closest and leave.

TRAVIS: Are there any interesting-looking weapons
or unique items that are out of the ordinary?

MATT: Make an investigation check.

LAURA: Any looking-magically thingies?

MATT: Make an investigation check.

TRAVIS: Yes! Minus two. 17.

SAM: I will look for weapons of any sort. Ooh, 30.
Investigation, right?

MATT: Yeah.

LAURA: 16.

MATT: (laughing) Do you want to add your bardic
inspiration dice to that to be a dick?

LAURA: Inspire me!

SAM: Did you suck or something?

LAURA: Yeah, I only got 16.

SAM: Okay, I will add my bardic inspiration. I
will sing to her. (singing) Something in the way I

wink, inspires you like no other gnome can.
Something makes you stop and think, how did he get

so handsome? How did he get so suave?

LAURA: Six extra points, so 22.

MATT: All right, there you go.

Now Critical Role owes a royalty to the
Beatles. All right, so, Grog, you find a painted

gold war mask that looks really cool and nasty
with the lower jaw. You're like, yes and you can

put it on.

TRAVIS: Yep, in fact, I lick it knowing that it's
cold and I stick it to my face.

MATT: Okay. Your tongue sticks to the mask.

TRAVIS: Fuck! And I rip it off.

MATT: You rip it off, all right. You take a point
of damage. And your tongue is pounding with pain

(throbbing) as the top layer of skin has been torn
off your tongue. But the mask is still yours. You

do also find a really beautiful black stone. It's
really well cut and it's about that big and it's

really pretty and dark and awesome.

TRAVIS: I love stones. I'm a fucking fan.

MATT: And a whole shitton of gold and platinum.
You, looking through, you find a beautiful reddish

ruby gem that has this slightly gold refraction in
the center of it that's somewhat symmetrical, it

looks otherworldly almost. It's beautiful. You see
deeper within the actual hoard a ship's mast that

was plated with gold that has been jammed in the
center of the hoard, wreckage that was dragged

here and included in the hoard. You do also see,
amongst some of the gold, a small vial with liquid

that is unaffected by the freezing temperatures
around it.

LAURA: What color is the liquid?

MATT: The liquid is-- let me look that up.

TRAVIS: This is my favourite part, getting new
shit.

MATT: It is like a thick syrupy metallic, like a
liquid iron, a reddish metallic tint to it.

TRAVIS: I had an idea until reddish, but I don't
know anymore.

MATT: And you find a pair of boots that are made
from a very thick, dark brown hide.

LAURA: Another boots of haste! For sure!

TRAVIS: They're probably like elephant strength
boots.

LAURA: Definitely boots of haste! Pair of boots
out of brown leather, you said?

MATT: Yeah, a dark brown leather, not very
elaborate in their design, but they're well made

and seemingly have braved the cold weather well
enough.

TALIESIN: They're Boots of Taste that you have.

TRAVIS: I appreciate well-made boots.

LIAM and TALIESIN: They're Uggs.

TRAVIS: Do we have an approximation of the gold and
platinum?

MATT: We'll get to that in a second. Sam!

SAM: I'm sorry, who?

MATT: Scanlan.

SAM: Thank you.

LIAM: Whoa! What just happened?

MATT: You find amongst this a platinum bracelet
set with a gorgeous sapphire that looks like it's

probably worth quite a bit. You also find another
unbroken vial amongst a series of other vials that

did break in the process of being hoarded here,
the liquid spilled out. There's one unbroken vial.

This one is a yellowish fluid with black swirls
that shift on their own inside the vial's

contents. As you shake it, you see they move at a
faster speed and then slow down in a reverse

direction. It's a very interesting pattern.

TALIESIN: Lava lamp.

MATT: Kind of. Underneath that vial, you see a
very beautiful--

LAURA: Ooh, sheets of paper!

TRAVIS: I love this shit. It's like walking into a
Toys 'R' Us. It's the fucking best. It's like,

"Which way do I go?!"

LIAM: Find the Plate of the Dawnmartyr.

SAM: That was easy!

MATT: There you go! You find a gold and platinum
band that is two separate bands that are woven

together like a braid in a band.

SAM: Like a back braid?

MATT: Kind of. Other than that, it looks nice.
There's no other defining markings on it. Looks

like it would be worth quite a bit. You do, also,
as you rolled ridiculously high, in pulling the

ring out and the vial, you glance over and a
handle is embedded in a large part of the gold.

You go and grab it and it's actually a pretty big
handle once you get your gnomish hand on it. You

pull and you pull forth a very beautiful platinum
greatsword. It has a series of small symbols

carved along the base of the blade on each side.
The handle comes a gradual upward curve. It looks

beautiful, ornamental, like something you'd see in
a temple as part of a centerpiece. But it's

weighted properly for a greatsword and is far too
big for you to ever possibly muster in battle.

SAM: I can't use this, so I'll just leave it.

TRAVIS: Wait! Let's not be hasty! My god, it's
beautiful!

SAM: Do you want it?

TRAVIS: I'm very emotional about this right now.
Can I check it for traps?

SAM: Check it for traps.

MATT: Make an investigation check.

TRAVIS: Natural 20!

LAURA: It is a natural 20, oh my god.

MATT: You have never been so sure in your life
that this sword: totally not trapped.

TALIESIN: I'm so hoping it talks to you now, I'm
so hoping it starts talking to you.

TRAVIS: 'Tis clean.

SAM: 'Tis clean?

TRAVIS: Yes.

SAM: You hold it, I can't hold it, it's too heavy.
It weighs as much as I do.

LAURA: How's it feel, Grog?

TRAVIS: Feels like money, money, money.

LAURA: Speaking of money, money, money.

MATT: As you begin pulling out these materials, a
series of the other Ravenites start gathering

gold, filling sacks and having to pass them off.
You see now two of them are pulling two big carts

over and are loading up cash in the area. This is
going to push your bag of holding.

TRAVIS: That's why I said we can't take that
much.

LAURA: But if it's platinum, it'll help.

MARISHA: More bang for our buck.

SAM: What can we lose from the bag of holding?

TRAVIS: I'm very emotional about some of this.

MATT: You get about 20 minutes of gathering gold
and platinum pieces from the section you have

access to. You could get more, if you continue to
dig beneath, probably. You manage to pull roughly,

between the three of you, 18,000 gold pieces and
about 12,000 platinum pieces.

(yelling)

TRAVIS: Forget the dragons, let's go buy real
estate.

MATT: That's a third of what's in the hoard right
now.

LIAM: Park Place, motherfucker!

TRAVIS: Build a fucking water park, let's go!

LAURA: We don't need any more than-- This is
really nice.

TALIESIN: Let's build a condominium.

LIAM: Condos in Marquet.

MARISHA: Parking garage, that's where it's at.

LAURA: How many gold is a platinum?

MATT: For the gold to platinum transition here--

TRAVIS: It's a lot. Scrooge McDuck over here is
fucking swimming in that shit.

SAM: With Brexit, it's not worth as much any
more.

MATT: Ten gold pieces per platinum.

LAURA: How many?

SAM: Ten gold pieces per platinum. So that's
another 120 grand. Grog. Vex. We don't need to

tell the others about this

LAURA: They don't need to know. No!

SAM: We could go to a warm place, the three of us,
and live out the rest of our days.

TRAVIS: We'll build a bank. It'll just be us.

SAM: They'll never find us. We have the Dust of
Tracelessness.

LAURA: I'm tempted. This is amazing.

TRAVIS: Right. We kill Vex after the first month.

LAURA: Wait, I can hear you.

TRAVIS: I was joking.

SAM: We might need her to restart civilization.

TRAVIS: True, true.

LAURA: Oh, you know what? Let's go back. You lost
me. I'm out.

(laughter)

LIAM: Meanwhile, for the last twenty minutes, I've
been combing blood out of Pike's hair, and we've

been having god talk, and as I put little fun buns
in Pike's hair I say, "You know, sometimes I feel

"like she is right there with me. I ask questions
and I know the answers, but most of the time I

"don't know anything. Does the balance ever
shift?"

MATT: "No, not really. It's part of what's great
about it, is you put your trust into them and

"everything turns out okay."

LIAM: That is so cool.

MATT: "You saw her, she punched a dragon for me!"

LIAM: We've got to find Larkin though, what do we
do about Larkin?

LAURA: Okay, all right.

LIAM: You're not here!

MATT: "I didn't like Larkin very much. It's
probably for the best."

LIAM: Aye, but he's out here on his own in the
cold. Ravenites everywhere!

MATT: "Dwarves are made of hardy stuff, I'm sure
he'll be okay."

LIAM: You're probably right. Let me even you off.

MATT: (pained) "Thank you."

MARISHA: What did we find?

(laughter)

SAM: Ten dragon scales, the end.

MATT: All right, come back to you guys. So Vorugal
is butchered in the center of the snow here.

Strangely, as you begin to carve, the air, as
freezing as it is, actual touch on the skin of

Vorugal is colder, and there's a few moments where
your fingers begin to adhere to the cold and you

have to pull back a bit. But you do manage to
carve from the hide, if you can carry it properly,

about 150 pounds of dragon hide.

MARISHA: Oh jeez. Oh boy.

LAURA: How much?

TALIESIN: 150 pounds.

LAURA: We got 40 pounds of black dragonhide in the
Bag of Holding.

MARISHA: Well we now apparently have 150 pounds.

TALIESIN: We're going to have to fill the
Whitestone coffers with some of this stuff when we

get back.

SAM: Grog is dumping stuff out of our Bag of
Holding.

TRAVIS: So one black studded dwarven armor suit,
because Pike's the only one that wears full armor.

There's another full set of regular plate armor.
That's going too. There's a totally decomposed orc

head. A brain chunk, two dark elf heads, one
random arm, a piece of bulette armor.

LIAM: That shit has been festering for months!

TRAVIS: Twelve beef jerky strips are going.

TALIESIN: I was saving that!

MATT: As you're doing this, Tooma is watching you,
going--

TRAVIS: By the way, this is totally up for grabs,
anytime you want. You say something to me and

we'll work it out.

MATT: (speaks Draconic) Another dragonborn walks
over and picks up the beef jerky strips, hands

them to Tooma, and Tooma keeps watching you all,
chewing on one.

LIAM: They're starving.

TRAVIS: Those are super fresh.

(laughter)

TRAVIS: I'm throwing out a greatsword and
replacing the platinum greatsword in its spot so

that should make enough weight out. Bye, black
studded dwarven armor. That was the first thing in

the bag of holding.

SAM: By the way, excellent note-taking and keeping
track of what's been in the bag of holding.

LAURA: Yeah, that's great.

MATT: Well done.

TRAVIS: Half of that body part stuff came out as
gelatinous poo.

MATT: Yeah, it's the gamiest of gamey meat you've
ever touched.

TRAVIS: Just strings of-- You pull it up and you
got to wrap it up in the string and toss it.

MATT: It is why I love the word "slough."

(disgusted groaning)

MATT: You guys pull away portions of that, Kima
helping out where she can. The sweat beads on her

forehead; even among the cold exterior, she's a
workhorse. You also manage to pry from Vorugal's

mouth 20 individual dragon teeth that are
harvestable outside of the ones the other

Ravenites take for themselves. You manage to get
six dragon talons pulled from the whole body, and

about-- let's see, with all the destruction of the
outside, and there is this creeping ice that's

beginning to freeze the body from the inside,
post-death-- the hide includes the scales, you

have to pull off the scales and destroy the hide,
and any other organs? You said the eyes, you were

thinking about taking?

MARISHA: Blood. Eyes.

MATT: Do you have any more empty vials?

TALIESIN: Empty vials? I'm out of vials.

LAURA: Did you take any healing potions? If you
did you'd have an empty healing potion vial.

TALIESIN: In theory then, I have three empty vials
because I did have three healing potions that I've used.

MATT: We'll say you go ahead and recork three
vials of white dragon blood.

TALIESIN: Thank you.

MATT: Anything else?

MARISHA: No.

TALIESIN: I'm going to go sit down for a little
while, and breathe.

MARISHA: Yeah, I'm going to go into the mansion as
well.

MATT: Okay. So you guys go ahead and join Vax and
Pike. Kima comes and joins you as well, to rest

for a moment, while the rest of the Ravenites
begin tearing off pieces of Vorugal's body,

leaving the ribcage, the spine. They pull most of
the organs out of it, but the tree itself is

rooted into the ribcage and the roots reach down
and burrow into the ground beneath it. It's left

this really interesting sculpture that they've
torn everything away from. At this point now, the

Ravenites have descended upon the interior of the
hoard, and they're hacking away at bits of ice to

open up more of the space beneath, while keeping a
very careful eye to make sure the structure

remains intact. You guys have gathered what you
decided to take from the hoard, and are doing what?

TRAVIS: Scanlan. Vex. We should disable the orbs,
right?

LAURA: I don't know how to.

TRAVIS: Just beat the shit out of them.

SAM: Wouldn't that alert Thordak?

TRAVIS: We don't want to taunt him first?

LAURA: I'd rather him not know, right now, that
Vorugal's dead because--

SAM: He would instantly know that we're not in our
home base, he could launch an attack on that place.

LAURA: Yeah. Maybe let's not do that just yet.

TRAVIS: But what if he comes here?

LAURA: Well if he does, hopefully they'll be
inside their caves? I don't think he's going to

leave Emon to come check out what's going on with
Vorugal, unless he knows that Vorugal's dead.

TRAVIS: All right. Shall we check in with the
other members first, before we biggity-bounce?

LAURA: Well, let's go back to the mansion. Maybe
we can destroy it on the way out, if we feel

necessary.

TRAVIS: What about that big golden mast? You think
there's a golden ship under there?

LAURA: What if there's a skyship in here?

SAM: I assume it wouldn't fly very well, but all
right.

LAURA: Maybe that's how the Ravenites can get to
Emon, if they can help us?

TRAVIS: It was made of gold, right?

MATT: Gold plating around it. There are portions
of it where you can see the wooden mast with large

bands of gold.

LAURA: Did it look like airship or normal ship?

MATT: It was hard to tell. From what you could
tell, it is a mast. The airships you've seen do

not have masts, since they do not use the wind.

LAURA: Oh, right.

MATT: So it was most likely a sea-faring ship, and
was torn asunder, from a great distance and then

dragged here as part of the hoard by Vorugal.

SAM: What are we going to do with a mast?

LAURA: I have no idea. Maybe on the way out we can
see if it's uncovered any more.

SAM: We'll stick a Google Maps pin here. We'll
always know it's here, because when we come visit

Tiberius' grave, we'll also leave some flowers and
take a mast with us.

LAURA: They've been working on this for a while
now, is it possible to wiggle my way in and check

out the mast now?

MATT: Sure, make an investigation check.

LAURA: 22.

MATT: You push past some of the Ravenite workers,
their shoulders don't give and you have to squeeze

through. As you get there, the upper part is still
locked in ice, and the lower part is locked in

ice. For how much they've carved through already,
is the central portion, but what you can see is a

wooden mast with large, thick bands of gold around
it that are ornamental. You can see within them

carvings and designs of a language you don't
really understand-- actually, what languages do

you know?

LAURA: Elvish, Common, Undercommon, Abyssal and
Draconic.

MATT: You do not recognize this language, but it
appears to be ornamental, and that whatever ship

this belonged to was a prized ship of either a
navy or merchant fleet. Based on some of the marks

on it, it looks like it was grabbed and broken off
a ship. Looking down below, there is a portion of

a ship that is beneath it as well. Much deeper,
maybe another 25 feet of solid ice below you with

the rest of this hoard. There's a portion of this
ship that was dragged here by Vorugal.

LAURA: That's crazy. It's a ship! I'm coming back
out.

SAM: All right. Let's go back to the main group
and tell them what we've discovered.

MATT: As you're hustling your way up the ravine to
the east, you pass by a number of Ravenites coming

by with large sacks, and chunks of dragon meat
draped over them. You can see the meat itself is

freezing the air and shoulders of those that are
carrying it. The essence of the dragon's ice-built

form is causing them to constantly shift it
because it's starting to stick to their armor, and

you see icicles beginning to form at the outside
of these large dragon-meat haunches that they're

carrying.

TRAVIS: When you dry-age meat like that, salt it
first, then hang it. Just a pro tip.

MATT: (speaking Draconic). Keeps walking, doesn't
seem to understand you.

TRAVIS: Really bad sinus problems.

MATT: Eventually you make your way back to
Scanlan's Magnificent Mansion and gather the rest

of the party. Percy, Kima, Keyleth and Vax are all
there, resting and eagerly awaiting your return.

TALIESIN: I've got to try and fix my guns.

MATT: Okay, make some tinkering checks.

TALIESIN: Is this a misfire check or a tinkering
check, since I'm not in combat?

MATT: These are tinkering checks.

TALIESIN: Okay, so it's proficiency bonus, dex roll.
Ooh, 28!

MATT: That's your Animus?

TALIESIN: Yep, that's fine.

MATT: I believe Bad News was also?

TALIESIN: Yup. 26.

MATT: 26 is fine. You manage to get Bad News
functioning again in the workshop below. And

Retort was okay, right?

TALIESIN: Yeah, Retort's fine.

MATT: So as you all return and gather around--

MARISHA: Keyleth has laid out the Vorgual spoils
like she got back from a yard sale.

MATT: Which, by the way, is a macabre view as you
walk in, and there's this smear of dark purple

dragon blood, and long, haphazardly carved chunks
of dragon hide, almost like the preset green lawn

rectangles that roll out and smeared across the
center of the foyer.

LAURA: I drop the Bag of Colding next to Keyleth.

MARISHA: Grog, can you help me see how much we can
shove in here?

TRAVIS: Shit, yeah.

MARISHA: Here, maybe like a sleeping bag, and I'll
sit on it and you can wrap it up?

TRAVIS: Yeah, good deal.

MARISHA: Okay, we'll do that. Try and shove as
much as we can.

(squishing)

MATT: When it's finally wound up, it won't fit
within the Bag of Colding. The Bag of Colding is

the size of a relatively large satchel. The dragon
hide, rolled up, is about that big around, what

you managed to carve off.

LAURA: Ah, shit. What do we do?

LIAM: Can we make Percy some dragonborn armor
right now, somehow, so he can be all white, all

over?

TALIESIN: Wow, that would be a thing, wouldn't
it?

TRAVIS: How much do you think that roll weighs?

MATT: About 150 pounds.

LAURA: Oh jeez. We can't carry that.

TRAVIS: I could drag it behind me for a little
bit.

LIAM: Scanlan, do you have a room here?

SAM: A room?

LIAM: For cold things? You have everything here,
do you have a chilly room?

SAM: Sure, in the kitchen there's a chilly room.
The mansion will expire in 12 hours though.

LAURA: We just got to go through the tree, yo.
That's it.

SAM: We could bring it into the kitchen for now.

TRAVIS: Can we get everything else into the Bag of
Colding, besides the roll of hide?

MATT: The teeth and those things can be put in the
Bag of Holding. The only thing that needs to be

preserved is the hide, until it's treated.

LAURA: What about the blood?

MATT: The blood's been capped. That should
probably be put in there.

MARISHA: Three vials of dragon blood in the Bag of
Colding.

MATT: Yeah, mark three vials of white dragon blood
in the Bag of Colding.

MARISHA: And we have six talons.

MATT: The talons themselves are large claws that
have been removed.

MARISHA: Okay, so we have six talons, 20 teeth and
150 pounds of hide.

MATT: There you go.

TRAVIS: Yeah.

MARISHA: Word.

TRAVIS: We got so much bling. We're stupid rich.

SAM: A lot of things that we don't know what they
are.

LIAM: What's that mask?

TRAVIS: I take the mask, and like Jim Carrey in
The Mask, I stick it to my face and (yells).

LIAM: Do you feel anything? What's it doing?

MATT: Okay, I need you to-- no, I'm kidding.

(laughter)

MATT: It is chilly against your skin.

TRAVIS: I feel like it's making me fall in love
with the first person I look-- Vax!

LIAM: Oh, you don't want to fuck with this. Are
you sure?

TRAVIS: No, you're right, I don't.

LIAM: Maybe just a little bit.

(laughter)

TRAVIS: I take the mask off and put it in the bag
of holding. But we got this! And I hold up the

big-ass platinum greatsword.

LIAM: Whoa.

LAURA: Can anyone identify things in our group?

TALIESIN: Do I recognize the text on it?
Celestial?

MATT: Celestial, yes, you do.

LAURA: Oh, you can read it!

SAM: When did you learn Celestial?

TALIESIN: I was a very lonely child.

LIAM: It's like Latin in the world of D&D.

TRAVIS: It's like, covered with prunes, up and
down the blade.

LIAM: Priss, what's it say?

LAURA: Are you calling him a priss?

LIAM: (laughing) Yeah.

MATT: Looking across the symbols, they are
specifically symbols speaking of creation,

devotion, the power of a deity's love and the
unity between god and creation. It is a very

religious and holy text across the blade, both
sides.

TALIESIN: This is some sort of paladin sword. It's
a holy weapon of some kind.

LAURA: Oh, I bet Kima would want the shit out of
that.

TRAVIS: Oh yeah, is Kima here?

MATT: She's right now in the process, in the
kitchen, of massaging some of the bruising and

wounds she took from the battle.

SAM: Got some meat tenderizer on that?

LIAM: Couple of chickens on it?

TRAVIS: Stop what you're doing. I want you to get
your hands on this big, beautiful bastard. And I

hand her the greatsword.

MATT: "Where the heck did you get this?"

TRAVIS: I could tell you, but I don't remember.

MATT: "Give me a little bit of time, I need to see
if I can make this part of my communion. Hold on a

"second." And she walks away, staring at the blade.
Without leaving her eyes from the scrolling on the

side, walks quietly past all of you in the center
of the foyer, sits down with it and starts

meditating over the blade.

TRAVIS: I walk over and go, "Before you hit
anything with it, you come talk to--"

MATT: (shushing)

TRAVIS: I leave.

TALIESIN: Anything else interesting?

LAURA: I found a jewel. It's red. It looks pretty
neato.

TALIESIN: How were the dragonborn about us taking
some of their--

LAURA: They were great about it actually, they
were quite generous.

TALIESIN: Anything else we should go back for, as
well?

TRAVIS: There was possibly a giant gold ship,
underneath.

TALIESIN: There was a what?

SAM: Gold mast, underneath the hoard. And also,
much more gold and platinum that we can't possibly

carry.

LAURA: Wait, it had runes on it as well. Do they
look similar to the runes that were on Greg--

Grog's sword?

MATT: No, the symbols on the side of weapon look
like an ancient text, they're laid in a very

ceremonial format. The text that you saw on the
side of the mast looked more like an engraving.

LAURA: Did it look fluid?

MATT: It was fluid.

TALIESIN: There's a ship in the dragon's
collection?

LAURA: Yes. I don't know if it was an entire ship,
but it was a ship.

LIAM: So you didn't go in, you saw it?

LAURA: Well I got down, but most of it was still
frozen.

TALIESIN: I think this would be a really good
idea, before we left. If a dragon grabbed a ship,

it was probably filled with something interesting.
It got his attention and he kept it.

MARISHA: It could take days to potentially melt
the ice, right?

TALIESIN: The ice is already melting.

LIAM: Keek, you could probably melt your way in
there in 24 hours.

MARISHA: And I also have this. My new toy.

LAURA: We should check that out before we go.

SAM: Are we in any danger staying here, leaving
our special hidey place unprotected?

TALIESIN: It's not like anyone can get in here.

SAM: No, I'm talking about your homeland. Leaving
it unguarded.

TALIESIN: It's as guarded as it's going to be
right now.

SAM: We know that Raishan's out there, doing
something.

TALIESIN: She was doing something previously. I
don't think that anything awful is going to

happen.

TRAVIS: I also took this little keepsake. I call
it Stoneblack.

SAM: Because it's a black stone?

TRAVIS: Well don't fucking break it down like
that.

LAURA: It's so neat.

MARISHA: Does it look fancy? Is it magic?

SAM: Why don't you Detect Magic, whoever can
Detect Magic?

MARISHA: I can't. Wait, can I? No, I can't.

SAM: I can look at it and see if it looks magical.

MATT: Yeah, make an arcana check.

SAM: Ooh, 20!

MATT: It is not magical. However, your keen bardic
eye, looking at the gem, it is a very rare gem. It

is worth quite a bit.

SAM: Platinum zirconia.

MATT: It's actually a black sapphire, an extremely
rare gem. It runs in the market anywhere between

four to six thousand gold.

TRAVIS: So anyway, I got rid of my old saltlick
rock and now I've got Stoneblack here to take its

place. Do you have a pet rock?

SAM: No.

TRAVIS: Oh my god. I sleep with it, I put it under
my back and it gets all the knots out.

LIAM: That is the cutest.

SAM: Do you paint a face on it, or anything?

MARISHA: I've actually had a lot of rocks that are
friends.

LAURA: Oh, that's great. You can make little
clothes for it.

MARISHA: Yeah, I didn't have a lot of friends
growing up.

TRAVIS: Sometimes I carry it in my armpit to keep
it warm. You don't need to know about that.

SAM: That's very maternal.

LAURA: Oh, and these boots!

SAM: Leather boots, could be anything.

LAURA: Are they magic, Scanlan?

SAM: Oh sure, I'll look at those. Wow, 24! Arcana
check, yeah?

MATT: Yeah. They're very simple leather boots,
there's no real ornamentation beyond being

functional boots. As you take a moment to look at
them, there is a faint shimmer to the leather

itself. When the light hits it, the brown gives
way to a slight purplish undertone. It looks to

have some sort of enchantment.

LAURA: Does it seem evil or good?

SAM: I have no idea. However, they look fancy.

TALIESIN: They are interesting, and I'm
indifferent to such things.

LAURA: I want to put one on.

SAM: Go ahead, put one on, what could happen?
We're in a safe place.

LAURA: I just want to see what it does.

SAM: Wait, what if it's single use only?

TRAVIS: Well, now's a good time.

LAURA: Oh no.

SAM: It's a boot, it's probably made for multiple
uses.

MATT: You can take a short rest and take time with
the item to figure out what it could do, if you

want to.

MARISHA: I attune to my staff.

MATT: Okay, so you attune to your staff. What are
you unattuning from?

MARISHA: Currently my Ring of Protection.

LAURA: Oh, that's painful.

SAM: AC down!

MATT: So all your saves are down by two, your AC
is down by two, for now. Good to know.

SAM: By the way, we have two unused Ring of
Protections that we can trade for things. I have

one that I haven't used in months.

MATT: Like Stone of Jordans now. It's the thing
you trade. Props to you if you know what that

reference was. What do you guys want to do? Do you
want to take a short rest to try and figure things out?

ALL: Sure.

MATT: Kima's focusing on the sword, you're
focusing on the boots.

TRAVIS: I'm focusing on the war mask.

MATT: Who else is doing what?

TALIESIN: Is there other things?

LAURA: Here's a beautiful red gem. It looks
special.

TALIESIN: Does this actually look like a special
gem?

MATT: Which gem is this?

LAURA: The red beautiful gem you told me about.

MATT: Oh, the ruby. It looks very pretty.

SAM: I've got a vial with yellow and black swirly
stuff in it.

TALIESIN: That requires somebody who knows
things.

SAM: I'll look at that.

MARISHA: Can I do a check on the potion since I've
got alchemy training?

MATT: You know what? Yeah, if you wanted to take a
look.

TALIESIN: There's some bracelets and such, I
thought I'd take a look.

SAM: I have a gold and platinum band with braids.

TALIESIN: Ah, I'll take a look at the
back-blades.

SAM: The back-blades. That's nice.

MATT: So Keyleth was taking a look at the
potions?

LAURA: What about the bracelet, you also had a
bracelet with a sapphire?

SAM: I just gave it to back-blades over here.

LAURA: No, you had a ring and you had a bracelet.

SAM: I have a platinum bracelet which I assumed
was just fancy and pretty. Here, look at that one

too, Percy.

TALIESIN: I think I can only handle one of these,
but we'll find out what happens.

MATT: All right, so as you guys make a short rest.
Keyleth, you identify both potions, one of which

is a Potion of Speed.

MARISHA: That's what I thought it was. The yellow
one?

MATT: Yep. The other is a Potion of
Invulnerability.

SAM: What does it do? Read it! Out loud, with your
mouth.

MARISHA: For one minute after you drink this
potion, you have resistance to all damage.

LIAM: God-mode!

MARISHA: The potion's syrupy liquid looks like
liquefied iron.

TRAVIS: So you half all damage.

MATT: Half all damage for a minute.

LAURA: That is so insane.

MARISHA: And then Potion of Speed: when you drink
this potion, you gain the effects of Haste spell

for one minute.

LAURA: I'm putting that in the party inventory.

SAM: No, no, no. Hand it out to somebody. Oh, that
one should go in the party inventory.

MARISHA: Which one, the Potion of Speed?

LAURA: The Potion of Invulnerability, so we can
decide later.

LIAM: That's for a very special day.

SAM: Grog could take the speed.

MARISHA: Yeah, do you want to take the speed
potion, Grog?

TRAVIS: Yeah, sure, I won't use it.

MARISHA: Give the invulnerability to Laura.

LAURA: Oh, thank you.

MATT: All right, the boots. To you, Vex.

TALIESIN: So many things.

LAURA: Is it Boots of Haste? (yells) Oh my god,
this is so crazy, because I was about to learn a

spell, for somebody, but these take care of that.
These are Boots of Feral Leaping. When you wear

these boots you can instill your leaps with
incredible bursts of power! As a bonus action you

can attempt to leap. Make a strength check with a
DC of 16. If you are successful you leap either 15

feet vertically or 20 feet horizontally.

SAM: (meowing)

TRAVIS: Do you have to attune to them?

LAURA: It doesn't say!

MATT: Yeah, those aren't attunement.

(cheering)

LAURA: There you go Grog. You need those.

TRAVIS: Does anyone want the Potion of Speed? I
don't want it to be just my Christmas. That's

amazing!

SAM: Anyone need the Potion of Speed?

MATT: If you fail the check though, you fall prone
where you stand.

LAURA: Oh, that's important.

MATT: Strength check, so you'll probably be okay.

LIAM: Most of the time, but once in awhile--

MATT: Once in a while banana peel.

LAURA: I have a question, because the spell that I
was going to take, because I still have one spell

that I haven't learned yet, is Jump, which triples
your jump for one minute. So if I did that, would

that triple that as well? Or would it just be
Grog's normal jump?

MATT: That magic would override the spell, based
on the enchantment. It's two different magical

forces affecting the same thing. The Jump spell is
part of the enchantment that boot was crafted

around.

LAURA: Oh, so that's perfect.

MATT: The platinum band is not magical.

TALIESIN: Yay!

MATT: But it is worth quite a bit, actually. The
platinum band is worth about 2500 gold.

TALIESIN: That's a magic all its own.

MATT: And the ring, who had the ring?

SAM: I have a platinum bracelet?

MATT: The platinum bracelet was what he looked at
right now. That's worth 2500.

SAM: Oh wait, the gold platinum band? The band was
a ring? Got it.

MATT: You have the ring?

SAM: Yes I do. Oh, it's a thing! I'm stuck here.
Oh god.

TRAVIS: The cube shrinks to half its size.

LIAM: A centimeter.

SAM: It's a Ring of Invisibility. While wearing
this ring you can turn invisible as an action.

Anything you are wearing or carrying is invisible
with you. You remain invisible until the ring is

removed, until you attack or cast a spell or until
you get Backblaze. I don't need this.

LIAM: Does it say attunement on it?

MATT: It does require attunement. It's a legendary
item, meaning it's extremely rare. You know how

you use a spell, and once you do something the
spell's gone? That, while you're wearing it-- you

can turn back invisible for another action. As many
times as you want, for as long as you wear it. So

situationally, it can be very useful, if you're
trying to do infiltration or something.

SAM: You can pop out, cast a spell and pop back.
But not a bonus action.

MATT: No. It's less of a combat benefit,
necessarily, in some situations it may be.

LIAM: Like going to a white dragon lair.

MARISHA: Who wants to keep it?

LAURA: Stealthy people need it, probably.

MATT: Kima is happy.

TRAVIS: Kima is happy?

MATT: Kima is very happy.

MARISHA: What'd she get?

LAURA: Did you just give away something amazing?

SAM: We can always take it back.

MATT: As she stands up she takes the blade and
swings it. It hits the ground, and when she hits

you can see a spark of divine energy from the
impact. She looks at her maul and goes, "Sorry, old

"friend. You'll find a good new home. But I'd say
this Holy Avenger is going to do me quite well."

MARISHA: What's it do, Kima?

MATT: To give you specifics, it requires
attunement by a paladin.

LAURA: Oh, so it has to be a paladin.

MATT: Only really Vax or her could attune to it.
It's plus three bonus to attack and damage rolls.

Hitting a fiend or undead, the creature takes an
additional 2d10 radiant damage on every hit. While

you hold the drawn sword, it creates an aura in a
10ft radius around you. You and all creatures

friendly to you in the aura have advantage on
saving throws against spells and magical effects.

TRAVIS: Kima is now an associate member of Vox
Machina.

SAM: Provisional.

TRAVIS: Provisional, yeah. That's amazing. So the
maul-- Kima, because I want to respect your

weapon, what does the maul do?

MATT: "Oh, you want the maul?"

TRAVIS: What? No, I'm just saying, what it does,
or does it just beat the shit out of people

beautifully by itself?

MATT: "It's my Holy Thunder Maul. It deals
additional thunder damage when I hit something.

"That's about it."

TRAVIS: Cool. You want me to hold onto it for you,
or are you cool?

MATT: (thunk) I'm good for now.

TRAVIS: Boss. Total boss moment.

LAURA: She can do 100 push-ups.

TRAVIS: That's true. Enjoy that.

MATT: "Oh, I shall."

MARISHA: I run downstairs to the training area
with my staff.

TRAVIS: Anything from the war mask?

MATT: No, but it is worth 750 gold.

LAURA: Whoa.

TRAVIS: I'll unlock its secrets. Wear him down.

SAM: Well, if we're ever invited to a Masqueradé--
is that how you say it?

MATT: No, but continue please.

TALIESIN: Paper faces on paradé.

TRAVIS: Can I get a description of it?

MATT: Yeah, it resembles the Maori warrior masks
with the big open mouth, the tongue sticking out,

the two pronged teeth coming up from underneath.
It's a war mask, it's meant to inspire fear and

give you an ominous presence on the battlefield.

SAM: Is it platinum?

MATT: It's gold. Old, very old.

SAM: Does it go with his hat?

MATT: If you were to attach it some way, it would
look very interesting.

TALIESIN: Would you like me to attach the mask to
your fine hat?

LIAM: To the back of his head.

LAURA: Ooh, to the back of it.

LIAM: So they don't know if he's going or coming.

TALIESIN: All right, bring it downstairs.

MARISHA: They're both metal, right? I can help you
by heating metal, actually.

TALIESIN: Yeah, let's just do this.

TRAVIS: Can you also put my title on the inside?

TALIESIN: Your what?

TRAVIS: My title.

TALIESIN: Oh yes, of course.

MARISHA: I'm going to go test this out, and I'll
meet you in the workshop. I'll be right back.

TRAVIS: Wait! Are you going downstairs?

MARISHA: Yeah, I want to see what this does.

TRAVIS: Can I come with you?

TALIESIN: We're all going downstairs.

MARISHA: It's a free mansion, man.

LIAM: You want to have a drink with me?

LAURA: Yeah, sure.

MATT: So while you guys go downstairs, you two are
going to the dining area?

LAURA: Is there a lounge in the mansion, is there
a bar?

SAM: There's mostly lounges in the mansion.

LIAM: Is there an aerated wine cellar?

(laughter)

SAM: It's constantly aerating.

(swirling)

SAM: Inside joke. I'm being teased right now for
owning and using a wine aerator.

TRAVIS: Whoever sold you that and said it was an
aerator is laughing their happy asses off.

SAM: I appreciate fine things, and I'm not going
to apologize for that.

TRAVIS: Some guy broke that off of his kid's toys
and was like "It's an aerator!"

LAURA: So yes, that's where we'll go. We're going
to go to the wine room.

MATT: All right, you guys find your way to the
wine room. Scanlan, what are you doing?

SAM: A whole lot of nothing. I'll go down and
watch the show, I guess. I'll watch the training show.

MATT: All right, you four head down to the
training room. Kima comes down to watch as well.

Pike comes down, eager to watch what this new
artifact does. You head down to the training area.

You have the big sandpit that's cordoned off with
the wooden outskirts, you have the various dummies

set up in certain ways, you have the portion of
the room that has the armor stand on the side, the

weapon stand. What do you want to do?

MARISHA: Ooh-hoo. Okay. All right. Everyone stay
back. I'm going to start by casting the lowest

level of spell out of it, see what it does.

MATT: Which is?

MARISHA: Apparently a Fireball.

MATT: Okay. At where?

MARISHA: Whatever is further in the sandpit. I
told everyone to stand back.

MATT: Everyone stays back. Furthest part of the
sandpit is going to be one of the various combat

dummies. So you launch-- put the staff down, you
guys watch as in the centerpiece at the top, where

that one gem is hovering and slowly rotating in
place, the gem begins to glow bright red from its

soft bluish-green composure. As it hits bright
red, this beam of familiar red arcane energy

streaks forward, hits it and detonates into a
shaking explosion, destroying the wooden dummy and

singeing the one immediately left to it.

TRAVIS: Whoa. Cool.

MARISHA: Did you see that, Grog?

TRAVIS: Yeah. Really nice.

MARISHA: That was awesome.

TRAVIS: Was that the biggest thing it does?

MATT: So that's three charges off.

LAURA: How many charges are there?

MARISHA: 20, and they recharge at the top of a
day. They recharge 1d6 plus four.

LAURA: Oh. How many recharge a day?

MARISHA: 1d6 plus four.

TRAVIS: So five to ten. Five to eleven.

MARISHA: Because I've been really excited about
this one, I'm going to point at the other dummy and

cast Chain Lightning.

MATT: Okay. As you do, you watch as this giant
bolt of electrical energy arcs off the same place

on the staff, hits the dummy and the dummy
immediately bursts into flames from the energy

hitting the wood, and then arcs off and hits the
two others. Suddenly the dummies are partially

blown apart on one side, the charred section
slowly smoldering as smoke pours up, and you can

see bits of the electrical energy going
(crackling) through the remainder of the wooden

dummy.

MARISHA: Grog. Did you see that?

TRAVIS: Holy shit. That was amazing. I kind of
want to get out there for whatever you do next.

MARISHA: Really?

TRAVIS: Yeah, just to see how much damage it does.
Wait, can you use this in Minxie form too?

MARISHA: Hmm, I don't think so.

TRAVIS: No, you think so, or you don't?

MARISHA: I can try this though! Hang on, wait,
that was five charges. No sorry, six charges.

Burning through all the charges, but I don't care.

TRAVIS: Do you have another one you want to do?

MARISHA: Watch this Grog, watch this. I'm going to
do Conjure Elemental.

MATT: Okay, and which elemental are you going to
conjure?

MARISHA: What elemental?

TRAVIS: Earth, big!

MARISHA: Earth!

MATT: You watch as she slams the staff in the
ground and you feel this quaking, and the sandpit

behind her begins to slowly billow and rise up. As
the sand falls away from underneath, you see,

standing behind and looming over Keyleth, this
giant, cracked stone earth elemental, very much

like the form she often takes, standing behind
her. Its eyes flash up with a bright green glow

and it sits there, awaiting her command.

MARISHA: Then I do a bonus action and I also turn
into an earth elemental.

MATT: That's right, because you got your forms
back at a short rest.

MARISHA: Yes I did.

MATT: So now she turns into the same form. There's
now two elementals there.

SAM: Fight, fight, fight!

MARISHA: Then we walk by and we Top Gun each
other.

MATT: Each slam itself causes the air around to
(cracking) like a small thunderwave in its own right.

MARISHA: Then we both turn and look at Grog.

TRAVIS: That was amazing.

MARISHA: Then I punch Grog in the face!

LIAM: Yes!

MATT: Go ahead and roll an attack.

MARISHA: Natural one!

TALIESIN: That's not a spell attack, is it?

MARISHA: That was for me!

MATT: And for the other elemental, what's your
bonus? As an earth elemental, what's your attack

bonus? Because the other elemental is going to
punch him at the same time too.

MARISHA: He gets a plus eight.

MATT: Plus eight? That's a 16, that does not. So
here's what happens. In slow motion, Grog stands

there with a big grin on his face, and both fists
go (slamming) and glide off, no impact. And you're

still dumbfounded and enjoying the moment.

TRAVIS: Keyleth.

MARISHA: (gruffly) I did that on purpose.

TRAVIS: Can I understand what she's saying?

MATT: No, you hear (rockslide crashing).

SAM: Wow, she can become far-sighted earth
elementals.

(laughter)

SAM: Amazing.

MARISHA: Okay, I drop my form to hear what Grog
has to say.

TRAVIS: That sucked. That was the worst one of all
of them.

MARISHA: Really?

TRAVIS: Yeah.

MARISHA: Did it hurt you when we punched you?

TRAVIS: No, like-- wait, is the beard all right?

MATT: The beard is fine.

TRAVIS: Yeah, okay, no. It's all good. Does it do
anything else than whiff?

MARISHA: Well. And I tell the elemental to--

TALIESIN: No, it does nothing else.

LAURA: Nothing.

MARISHA: Attack Grog again.

TRAVIS: Let me turn around.

MATT: That is an 18.

MARISHA: Fucking shit.

MATT: It doesn't miss, what it does is it hits you
and you're like (slamming). You barely felt it.

MARISHA: How was that?

TRAVIS: Oh man, yeah. Really, whew. Stout.

MARISHA: Really? Yeah?

TRAVIS: Yeah. I'm questioning my faith now.

MARISHA: Man, this staff is so powerful.

TRAVIS: Yeah, sure is.

MARISHA: Jeez, wow.

TRAVIS: Not that I want to feel any more damage
after that hurricane of pain, but does it do

anything else?

MARISHA: I can keep burning the fucking charges.

MATT: By the way, you've now burned 14 charges.

MARISHA: Yes, I know.

TRAVIS: Give me one really big one.

MARISHA: Goddamn it. I hope we're not fighting
anything so I can recharge these.

LAURA: It's going to be like three days for her to
get them back.

SAM: Does this thing protect you at all?

MARISHA: No, it's a damage-dealer.

LAURA: Don't do any more. Don't waste any more,
Marisha. Don't do it.

LIAM: You're not there.

LAURA: That's why I said Marisha.

MARISHA: I'm going to wait. I'm going to see. I'm
going to save some action. Real fast, just in

case-- and I whack him with the staff.

TRAVIS: Like Rafiki?

MATT: All right, go ahead and roll a d20. Add your
strength modifier and your proficiency modifier.

MARISHA: My strength and my-- Let's see, 18. No
wait, 19!

MATT: 19. What's your AC, Grog?

TRAVIS: 20.

ALL: Aww.

MATT: Whack!

TRAVIS: (melodramatic groaning) Oh, the pain of--
what's this thing called? Confires! It hurts so much.

MARISHA: Wow, really?

TRAVIS: I feel the reflux-- the conflux.

MARISHA: Oh, it gave you acid reflux?

TRAVIS: Yeah, it's real bad. I have to leave
because I feel like I might toss.

MARISHA: That's good to know. It induces
sickness?

TRAVIS: Yeah, I feel like I'm going to cry too.

MARISHA: Okay, good to know, all right, thank
you.

TRAVIS: And I leave, holding my forehead and
laughing. Small, little laugh.

MARISHA: I'm good for now.

MATT: Percy, you're going to the workshop, you
said?

TALIESIN: Yeah, grabbing the helmets and here, I'm
going to borrow you.

MARISHA: And now I go.

MATT: So you guys go and do that. In the meantime,
both of you find your way to Scanlan's wine room.

(aerating noises and laughter)

LIAM: I don't know what any of these are; do you
know what's good and what's bad?

LAURA: Pick the one that looks the fanciest.

LIAM: You were better at that than I am.

LAURA: I go to the corner-- the highest shelf, I
don't fucking know. These are probably all fake

wine anyway. I fly up and grab the one on the
highest shelf and fly back down.

MATT: You grab it, look at the label. It's a Pinot
Noir, and the title of the brand says Le White Meat.

LAURA: Oh no, it's chicken wine. Fuck.

TRAVIS: Oh no, is it really?

LAURA: Whatever, we'll drink it anyway. It's going
to be disgusting.

TALIESIN: There's actually a drink called Cock
Ale, which is brewed in a dead chicken.

TRAVIS: Of course you would know that.

MATT: No, it's regular red wine. But definitely is
labelled with a chicken on it.

LAURA: That's funny.

LIAM: I'm grabbing a random Two Buck Chuck next to
me on the wall.

MATT: Same label. They're all the same wine.

LIAM: Hey, hey, hey. To Vex'ahlia, the dragon
slayer.

LAURA: Fuck yes!

LIAM: (slamming) Oh shite, we should do it for
real.

LAURA: Oh yeah, right, what's up?

LIAM: Oh man, I'm proud of you.

LAURA: Thanks!

LIAM: Yeah.

LAURA: Is that all you wanted to say?

LIAM: No.

LAURA: I didn't think so.

LIAM: Well, that's three of five.

LAURA: Yeah.

LIAM: I don't know if we're all going to live, but
I think that collectively we might actually pull

it off.

LAURA: I think we have a good shot of it.

LIAM: Yeah. Almost bit it, out there.

LAURA: Yeah, I noticed.

LIAM: Again.

LAURA: Yes. Scary.

LIAM: Can I have a hug?

LAURA: I'm glad you're not dead.

LIAM: Yeah, old news. We've done it before, we'll
do it again. Hey, do you want to try jumping

around with those boots?

LAURA: Oh, I gave them to Grog.

LIAM: You want to try to jump around anyway?

LAURA: Sure.

LIAM: What can you do? How high can you go?

LAURA: I jump. It's a jump. A normal little jump.

LIAM: It's good, yeah.

LAURA: Why?

LIAM: No reason, I'm procrastinating.

LAURA: Oh, yeah. So tell me what you're
procrastinating about?

LIAM: How long are you going to torture yourself
for?

LAURA: Oh, you fuck. (laughing) What? (muffled)
What are you even talking about right now? Do you

want to see how high I can jump now? So high. I
get on my broom and I fly up to the ceiling.

LIAM: Push out the wings. No, I can't!

MATT: Yeah, you already used it.

LIAM: Will you come down here and talk to me?

LAURA: (groans) Fine, fine! Hi.

LIAM: Yeah. What are you doing?

LAURA: I don't know! I don't-- what?

LIAM: You know I've known for a while? It's all
over your face, I've known you since you were a

baby, I've known for a while.

LAURA: Okay. (nervous laughter)

LIAM: I've almost died. You have died.

LAURA: Yes.

LIAM: He died.

LAURA: Yes.

LIAM: What are you fucking doing, Vex?

LAURA: (sighs) It's just timing, you know? It's
all timing.

LIAM: Timing could have you dead in the ground
tomorrow.

LAURA: This is true.

LIAM: And do you know something? Hey.

LAURA: Hmm?

LIAM: He leads with this. Not with that.

LAURA: His collarbone?

LIAM: Yeah. Fucking smart-ass. Maybe he'll
surprise you, but I don't know.

LAURA: I think he isn't thinking that way at all,
and honestly--

LIAM: (snorts) You're a dummy. I'm the dummy, why
are you such a dummy?

LAURA: I don't know, darling. It seems so trivial.
Doesn't it?

LIAM: What the fuck do we have in this world
except for moments with each other? That's all

we've got.

LAURA: Yeah.

LIAM: I want you to have some happiness in your
life.

LAURA: I do have happiness!

LIAM: I want you to have a little more. There's no
reason to hold back. Why?

LAURA: Wouldn't it be so awkward though?

LIAM: Who cares? You know what's awkward?

LAURA: Hmm?

LIAM: A life not lived.

LAURA: Hey, I'm living a life. I've got Trinket.
I've got you, sometimes, when you're not with

Keyleth.

LIAM: Listen, you're my sister, and I love you
very much, and I know a lot about you, and I can

help you in a lot of ways. But not every way.

LAURA: I know.

LIAM: There are facets of you that have nothing to
do with me.

LAURA: Very few.

LIAM: I want you to be happy, and we all could be
dead in a week. You know that.

LAURA: Yeah.

LIAM: I'm a fucking idiot. I don't know anything.

LAURA: (laughing) I want you to remember that you
just said that.

LIAM: I never forget it. Ever. In the game or out
of the game, Laura.

LAURA: Oh, don't!

LIAM: It's a short life we got. I'm not going to
tell you what to do, but I won't tell you what to

do. I do want you to be happy.

LAURA: Thank you. And I'll try.

LIAM: And on a side note-- he's a little fucked
up.

LAURA: Oh, I know.

LIAM: And he only listens to you.

LAURA: Well, that's not true.

LIAM: Yes it is.

LAURA: No!

LIAM: Who does he listen to?

LAURA: Keyleth. They're like, so close.

LIAM: Yeah, they enjoy each other's company, I
know that, but you're really the only one who he

listens to. So I need you to-- he has impulses. He
has impulse control. I have impulse control.

LAURA: Yes you do!

LIAM: He has a different kind of impulse control.

LAURA: Okay. You want me to control him then. Get
him under my thumb. Bring him to the light, just a

little bit?

LIAM: You know what I'm talking about.

LAURA: I know what you're talking about.

LIAM: I take another bottle of wine and I
(gulps).

LAURA: (laughing) I thank you.

LIAM: Am I drunk, am I at disadvantage now, if do
the whole bottle?

MATT: In a minute you will be, yeah.

LIAM: Grab another bottle.

LAURA: Hm? Glug glug glug? Well, all right.

LIAM: (groans) I want to go see some fireballs get
shot, I'll see you later!

LAURA: Okay, have fun.

LIAM: Woo!

MATT: As Vax sloppily leaves the room, you're left
in quiet, by yourself with your--

LIAM: (booming) And I walk away!

LAURA: I pop Trinket out, cast Speak with Animals
and have a nice fun conversation with him.

MATT: We're going to go ahead and take a break
here, come back here in a minute, use the

restroom.

MARISHA: Aw, we haven't done shit!

MATT: That's not true. You've discussed the spoils
from your last major story bit, so we'll be back

here in a few minutes. We're going to go ahead and
take a restroom break, fill up on drinks. Stay

tuned and we'll see you in a minute.

[break]

MATT: Hello, everyone and welcome back to Critical
Role! After a barrage of delightful phrases that

were just shouted at me. It's great.

TRAVIS: Love you, Matt!

MATT: Love you too, guys. I do want to say real
fast that our wonderful Kiki Day, who made a

number of other Vestiges--

LAURA: Fenthras!

MATT: Made Fenthras, made--

MARISHA: And the Spire!

MATT: Made the Spire of Conflux, which you can see
on Marisha's twitter right now?

MARISHA: Geek & Sundry's twitter.

MATT: Geek & Sundry's twitter. As well as making
me a belt buckle that I'm going to be wearing at

Blizzcon.

(yelling)

MATT: That's fucking fantastic.

TRAVIS: That's a badass motherfucking belt.

MATT: (McCree voice) Just saying.

LIAM: (Oprah voice) Spire of Conflux!

MATT: (McCree voice) Now I've got a reason to go
ahead and wear myself a tucked-in shirt.

(normal voice) Anyway, let's get into the game. You guys,
finishing those scenes. Taking a short rest. You

roll your hit dice to heal up a bit. What more do
you wish to accomplish? What's your next plan of

action, Vox Machina?

TALIESIN: I say we pack up all of our things and
raid a ship.

LAURA: And then head back to Whitestone. I mean-- 
Oh, no, we're fine in here.

SAM and LAURA: Are we?

MARISHA: Do you want to rest before we do that?

TALIESIN: I say we--

SAM: We have to rest. We're all severely injured.

TALIESIN: Well, some of us, yes. I say we take a
night, we hit the ship and then head home.

LIAM: It's good wine!

LAURA: Oh, he's drunk.

MARISHA: You guys got into the wine?!

SAM: Did you aerate it first?

LIAM: How do you do that?

SAM: If you don't have an aerator, you can put it
in a mason jar and shake it up a bit.

LIAM: We just drank it out of the bottle.

SAM: Well, that's just pedestrian, really.

LAURA: You have so many.

TALIESIN: Put some ice in it, keep it cold.

MARISHA: Are we still melting a mask to a helmet?

TALIESIN: We had a little bit of metallurgy to
do.

MATT: Make a tinkering check, and this, actually,
make--

MARISHA: I help him with my Heat Metal spell like
a soldering iron.

MATT: Okay! That being the case, it's going to
help with the metal's pliability. Go ahead and

make your regular dex-based.

TALIESIN: Regular dex-based? All right.

MATT: Would make it strength-based for the metal,
but the Heat Metal is helping you with that.

TALIESIN: All right.

MARISHA: Big money, no whammies!

TALIESIN: That's a 26.

MATT: 26? Yeah, without an issue you manage to
apply the mask onto the back of the helmet after

looking at some brief glances at the shape of
Grog's head, making sure that it has a hinge so if

he leans forward, it doesn't restrict or press
into his back if he looks up. It is a functional

backmask onto his delightful pointed helmet.

TALIESIN: I've also carved, in Elven, in the
inside, "Kick Me."

MATT: On the inside of the mask?

TALIESIN: Yeah. So it's there.

MARISHA: It's magnificent.

TALIESIN: I think so.

MARISHA: Shall we present it to him?

TALIESIN: Yes, let's.

MARISHA: I feel like we should go at this with a
little bit of theatricality. Just because it's so

much fun to fuck with Grog.

TALIESIN: I know!

MARISHA: How do you want to do this?

TALIESIN: I don't know.

MARISHA: Oh! I turn into an elephant. Get on my
back!

TALIESIN: Did you say that before turning into an
elephant?

MARISHA: Yes, I do! Get on my back!

LIAM: (elephant sound)

TALIESIN: For god's sake, Vax, stop aerating more
wine! We've had enough! You've had enough!

MATT: Sam is so over it.

TALIESIN: No, never!

MARISHA: Percy's on my back and I'm an elephant
holding the mask while we go find Grog.

MATT: Well, first you get to the doorway of the
workshop.

MARISHA: It's a temporary fucking mansion. I bust
through.

MATT: Make a strength check.

MARISHA: I don't know how to-- Will you put this
in dice jail for me?

LAURA: You got it.

MATT: What'd you roll?

MARISHA: I don't know. What do I roll for a--

MATT: Look it up. You add your strength modifier
as an elephant.

MARISHA: Well, I don't know what an elephant's
stats are!

MATT: I'm going to find it right now. I'm going to
find for you what an elephant's stats are! Just

going to go look it up for you!

MARISHA: Well, I rolled a two!

MATT: You rolled a what, a two?

MARISHA: Yeah, a two.

SAM: It's not going to work!

MARISHA: I'm a fucking elephant and it's a door!

MATT: It's plus six because it has a strength of
22 because it's a goddamn elephant. So eight. You

(slam). It lurches ever so slightly, but that is a
very strong doorway. It's almost like the arcane

nature of Scanlan's magic makes a good home.

MARISHA: Can I try it again?

MATT: You hit it again. Make another strength
check.

MARISHA: That's much better! 16 total!

MATT: 16. It causes some of the plaster to crack.
Doesn't get that much further, but you're starting

to get a serious headache.

TRAVIS: Are we hearing this? Are we hearing a
massive commotion?

MATT: You're starting to hear it now. There's this
low, general slamming sound in the mansion.

LAURA: What is that?

TRAVIS: Yeah, do you hear that?

SAM: I do. Doesn't sound right.

LAURA: Should we go find out?

SAM: I pull out Mythcarver and run down the
stairs!

TRAVIS: I take out the bloodaxe and I follow him!

MATT: Another strength check.

MARISHA: They get better with each time. 19!

MATT: 19. The door gets knocked partially off of
its hinges and the frame is now slightly bent

forward. The wood is splintered and the stone has
more cracks into it. The headache is now

pounding.

MARISHA: I should have thought about this!

MATT: You guys hear another, even louder slam this
time. As you rush down to the outside of Percy's

workshop you see some crazed, large, shifting gray
movement of some creature, on the other side of

the doorway.

TRAVIS: Jesus! Scanlan, is this one yours?

SAM: No. It's definitely an intruder.

TRAVIS: Then we fucking kill it! We race forward
and attack.

MATT: All right, both of you guys roll a--

LIAM: Wait, is Percy still riding?

MATT: You don't see Percy, because Percy's above
you!

TALIESIN: Am I aware of this happening? At
all, I don't see them at all?

MATT: No, because you're inside the workshop and
you're above the doorframe she's slamming into.

TRAVIS: 23.

SAM: One.

MATT: So Scanlan, you go running with Mythcarver
in the air, and as you go to strike, Grog shoves

you out of the way, in the middle of his angry
grab and you go skidding across the ground,

Mythcarver spinning out of your grasp across the
floor. Are you making a single attack or are you

doing a full round of attacks on this beast?

TRAVIS: This is a giant beast, I'm giving it what
for!

MATT: So roll another attack, are you raging for
this?

TRAVIS: No, I'm not raging. (laughing) 24.

MATT: Okay, both hit. Go ahead and roll damage on
both attacks, non-rage damage.

MARISHA: No, go with it. Go with it.

TRAVIS: 20 points, four points of necrotic.

LAURA: Oh god.

TRAVIS: I know, I don't hit lightly.

SAM: Elephant's going to die.

TRAVIS: 22 points of damage.

MATT: You take 42 points of damage from your
maximum of 76 hit points as an elephant, as all of

a sudden, what little bit of vision you have
through the pounding headache, you glance through

in time to see Grog's form (roaring) run up and
slam his axe into you twice.

MARISHA: How much damage?

MATT: 42.

MARISHA: What's my form?

MATT: 76.

MARISHA: I fucking headbutt him, I'm going to
gorge him! Let's go!

MATT: You're going to gorge him?

TRAVIS: Scanlan!

SAM: Careful Grog, it has some protection magic on
it. It threw me across the room!

(laughter)

MATT: All right, Marisha. I would like you to roll
for a gore attack against Grog.

LAURA: This is ridiculous.

MARISHA: What do I add? I don't have a stat.

MATT: Plus eight.

MARISHA: 18.

MATT: 18? No, I don't think that hits you. So you
go ahead and try and gore Grog, and Grog ducks

right beneath the two giant ivory horns.

MARISHA: Do I knock down the doorway a little bit
more?

MATT: Make a strength check.

MARISHA: Okay. 20 total.

MATT: With that, as you duck below, the elephant
slams through the archway, sending stone and

pieces of wood flying, and stumbles past. You duck
down to try and the avoid the attack, going

underneath the elephant as it begins to stomp over
you into the room. You see this as you spin

around. The elephant bursts in, and it is very
much an elephant, you can see now, with Percy on

top being dragged through the rubble.

TALIESIN: I'm thankfully wearing a helmet.

SAM: It's got Percival!

TRAVIS: Roll off! Roll off, Percy!

TALIESIN: (deadpan) Oh help. Help, please.

TRAVIS: He's so weak he can barely speak!

SAM: We must kill this elephant.

TRAVIS: We must destroy this beast!

MATT: Scanlan and Grog, what are you doing?

TRAVIS: Come on, buddy.

SAM: We got to kill this thing.

TRAVIS: Yeah, you go. Come on.

SAM: I will throw a Wand of Fireballs at it.

MATT: How many charges does it have left?

SAM: Oh, plenty. I have only used one of seven.

MATT: But each time you use it-- okay. Not quite
how it works, I don't think.

LIAM: Just look at the shirt, Matt, just look at
his shirt.

MATT: Oh, you're right. One charge is a third
level spell, I misunderstood. So you launch your

Fireball, go ahead and roll damage.

SAM: Oh wait, what is the damage? It's 8d6. Got
it.

MATT: 8d6. Keyleth, I need you to roll a d20 minus
one.

MARISHA: Don't fuck me, Gil. Rolling your die!
Wait, a d20 minus one? (laughing) Six total.

Goddamn it Gil.

MATT: Okay. Percy, I need you to roll a dexterity
saving throw.

TALIESIN: That's not bad, that's 18.

MATT: Okay, what was the damage you said?

SAM: 26.

MATT: I need you to roll a dexterity saving throw,
with advantage.

TRAVIS: Natural 20.

MARISHA: I'm still wearing my cloak, so do they
get disadvantage on attacks against me? Because

I'm in the Cloak of Displacement.

SAM: You're an elephant though.

TALIESIN: You're an elephant in the Cloak of
Displacement.

MARISHA: But whenever I Beast Shape I absorb my
items.

MATT: That would have been something to mention
earlier, so going forward the attacks will have

disadvantage, but you have to remember that for it
to have an effect.

MARISHA: But they're just now rolling.

MATT: He hasn't attacked yet, he's rolling because
a Fireball just blew up in his face!

TRAVIS: I got a natural 20, so I'm good.

MATT: So that's half damage to you. You said it
was 26 damage?

SAM: 26.

MATT: So 13 points of fire damage to Percy and
Grog, and a full 26 points of fire damage to you.

That puts you at a total of 42 plus 26, so 68.
You're still up. The elephant that's now storming

through the center-- hold on, I have to go with
the battle music for this now.

SAM: Where's your battle map?

MATT: --storming through the center of the foyer,
is now spinning around, flames exploding,

engulfing Percy, Grog. The elephant is now covered
in blood and scrapes. That finishes your go. Grog,

you're up.

SAM: Before I'm done I'm going to inspire Grog and
say: Grog, remember. They never forget!

(laughter)

MATT: Take your d12 inspiration.

TRAVIS: Thank you. I'll take two strikes at the
elephant's ass. That's a one.

MATT: With disadvantage.

TRAVIS: Oh. Well, that's a one, so.

MATT: I know. You still have the second attack.

TRAVIS: That's a two.

MARISHA: (heavy footsteps)

MATT: So as you go--

LAURA: Wait, it's not a two!

TRAVIS: So the second one was 16, the first one
was a 15.

MATT: It still hits. You rolled a two and it still
hits because its AC is 12. It's very big and easy

to hit. Go ahead and roll damage on the next
attack.

TRAVIS: Oh, nice. What a joy!

TALIESIN: It's not hard to hit an elephant.

LIAM: Can we also say that the two winos have come
down to watch?

LAURA: Yeah, we're staring from the top of the
stairs at all of it happening.

TRAVIS: The first one is 20, with four points of
necrotic damage.

MATT: You only hit with one.

TRAVIS: Oh, that's right.

MATT: How much was that, 20 points?

TRAVIS: Yeah, 20.

MATT: Okay, so Keyleth, you yourself take 12
points of damage. As your axe swings through and

slams into the elephant, the elephant's form
suddenly vanishes, as your axe cleaves through

Keyleth a little bit, causing her to fall back and
catch herself.

LAURA: Is Percy still on her back, piggy-backing?

MATT: In a second, Percy goes (thud) on the ground
next to you.

MARISHA: (pained noise)

TRAVIS: Percy, you've been riding Raishan! Die,
evil witch!

LAURA: Grog! It's Keyleth.

MARISHA: Oh, Grog, thank you! That elephant ate
me! You saved me!

TRAVIS: I did?

MARISHA: You did.

TRAVIS: Sometimes I don't know if you guys would
live without me. I'm really glad I'm around,

sometimes.

TALIESIN: I can't imagine it. I legitimately
cannot imagine it.

TRAVIS: Ooh, is that my helmet?!

TALIESIN: It is!

LIAM: Ayy, Fredrickstein the Science Guy, nice
job! Look at that! That is beautiful.

LAURA: (whispering) He's drunk.

MARISHA: The elephant ate this too.

TALIESIN: It's Dr. Fredrickstein, please.

TRAVIS: Is there poo on it?

MARISHA: No, it's good.

TALIESIN: It's clean. It's perfectly reasonable.

TRAVIS: Ooh, the mask's on the back. Did you write
on the inside like I said?

TALIESIN: It is engraved in Elven on the inside,
it's lovely.

TRAVIS: It looks like writing. What's it--

TALIESIN: It's your title, sir.

TRAVIS: --is that? What language?

LAURA: Oh, that? It's Elvish.

TRAVIS: Oh, it's Elvish? So not everybody knows
what my title is.

TALIESIN: It's meant to be secret.

TRAVIS: Very smart. Did you see my title?

LAURA: I did, it's impressive.

MARISHA: I wrote it down.

TALIESIN: Did you? Oh dear.

MARISHA: I knew it was going to be handy.

TRAVIS: I will put on the new mask slash horned
helm.

MATT: It feels impressive.

TRAVIS: Does it?

MATT: Yeah.

TRAVIS: Actually, because now the mask is facing
the back, right? Can I fucking turn it around and

put the mask on the front, with the horn sticking
out the back like a big Nike swoosh?

MATT: You can. It's not as comfortable, but it
definitely feels badass.

TRAVIS: (muffled) I don't feel like this is the
best--

TALIESIN: You sound very intimidating.

LIAM: He got polymorphed into De Niro.

(laughter)

TALIESIN: Oh my god.

SAM: I feel like I'm going to have to write some
house rules from now on.

TALIESIN: It'd be good to have a list of things to
ignore, I agree.

LIAM: You need some of those blue guys with an
aerator at all times down in those cellars.

SAM: Blue man group?

LIAM: One of your blue guys! The blue guys! That
disappears with this place--

SAM: My hundreds of--? There's no guys here.
They're all female servants. I don't know how many

times I need to say this.

LIAM: Well, nobody farted in our wine tonight. We
had to drink it regular.

SAM: I am sorry for your loss, because it's really
excellent once you let it breathe and open up.

LIAM: It's pretty good right now.

TRAVIS: Well, now that I got my helmet, are we
going down to the ship?

TALIESIN: I propose that we have an evening's
rest. In the morning--

LIAM: We should go now.

LAURA: No. Maybe you need to rest.

TALIESIN: No, I think we need an evening's rest.

LIAM: I have 25 hit points. I'm fine!

LAURA: Yeah. Well, Pike is resting because she was
hurt quite badly.

LIAM: Yeah, but did you see her fun buns, though?
I did those.

LAURA: I didn't.

TALIESIN: You did her fun buns?

LIAM: Yeah, I pulled little fun buns--

TALIESIN: Oh! Okay! That's good--

LIAM: What do you think I meant?

TALIESIN: I didn't think anything, I'm going
up.

LIAM: What else does fun buns mean except for
little, cute, little hairballs on your hair?

SAM: I'll give you a book later.

LAURA: Oh, yeah! You have a book?

SAM: I have a few. I have a library.

LIAM: Oh, gosh! Neither Vax nor Liam knew there
was anything other than little cute hair buns--

Fun buns. What is a "fun bun" besides a fun bun?

MATT:	Ask Larkin.

LIAM: You guys! We got to find Larkin!

MATT: Okay. All right, so you guys take your long
rest. You regain your spells, you're all full hit

points, you regain half your max hit dice. So if
you spent more than half of your hit dice, you still--

LAURA: Do we keep our hit dice from our Heroes'
Feast? If we never got rid of them? Or are they gone?

MATT: No. By the time you'd wake up, they'd be
gone, probably.

LIAM: Can you use the hit-- never mind.

SAM: When they wake up in the morning, Vax has a
bill under his door for three bottles of wine. And

Vex for one bottle. And Keyleth for a construction
bill of 5,000 gold pieces.

LAURA: I promptly rip the fuck out of my bill.

MARISHA: I think it's a scam, and I throw it
away.

MATT: Okay.

SAM: It is a scam.

(laughter)

MATT: All right. Well-rested. A fresher day. The
mansion, growing fairly close to probably

expending the rest of its magic. What do you guys
do?

TALIESIN: Let's pack our things, head down and
take a look at that pirate ship, then head home.

Well, that ship. I don't know if it has pirate
symbols, but I'm very excited.

MARISHA: So wait, do we need things-- how far
under the ice is it?

TALIESIN: Probably a bit. Having the ability to
melt some ice would probably be helpful. Also,

you're going to have to do the tree teleport and
possibly we want to deal with reforestation of

some kind.

MARISHA: Reforestation. Oh, sure because the Ice
Age wiped out--

TALIESIN: We have to go out like Captain EO. It's
a thing.

MARISHA: Yeah!

SAM: Just throwing this out there, is there
anything to gain by going up to the dragon lair

and communicating with Thordak? Is there anything
we want to say to him?

LAURA and TALIESIN: No.

SAM: Misdirection? Taunting? Anything?

TRAVIS: Like, you suck. You can find us at the
Glintshore?

LIAM:	We don't even want to take an hour for
me to slip this on and go see if there's anything

of value?

SAM: Up in the lair?

LIAM: Yes.

LAURA: You can do that while we look at the ship.

TALIESIN: Not a bad idea.

SAM: But don't go alone. You can still get
hit with traps.

LIAM: I can look for those. I do like buddies to
go. Do you need to go to the boat?

TALIESIN: It's all in the same place.

LAURA: Yeah. It's all in the same place.

SAM: I can hover above you or something.

TRAVIS: Let's jauntily head over.

TALIESIN: If there's a problem, we can call the
others. We won't be that far away.

LIAM: All right. Ooh! I slip Whisper into my pack
and I put this ring on.

SAM: (whispers) Ooh! Precious!

LAURA: Right, so you have to attune to that.

LIAM: (Gollum voice) Nasty!

TALIESIN: Thank you.

LIAM: (Gollum voice) Nasty!

TRAVIS: Nasty woman.

LIAM: (Gollum voice) She's a nasty woman!

(laughter)

TALIESIN: Oh, I may need a ringtone later.

MATT: Yeah. All right, great. So you guys have put
yourselves together. Kima and Pike joined you

downstairs in the foyer. You make your way back
out into the ravine just as the magic of the mansion

fades. There you can see most of the dragon bones
picked entirely off the corpse of Vorugal, except

for the ribcage, still remaining as a landmark of
the battle that took place with a central tree

still sprouting from the top of it.

LAURA: Is it any bigger?

MATT: No, the magic of Fenthras creates the tree and
it stays that size as it sprouts. Who knows if over

time it may grow? You haven't had the time to
really tell. You guys make your way--

MARISHA: I didn't know you are an artist.

LAURA: It's quite lovely, isn't it?

MARISHA: It's pretty amazing, yes. I appreciate
this.

LAURA: You're welcome. I did it for you, Keyleth.

TALIESIN: Certainly adds something, doesn't
it? To the whole valley. It's quite nice.

TRAVIS: Yeah. Green.

MATT: The weather has cleared up. There's breaks
in the clouds. It's still mostly cloud-covered,

but you do see glimpses of blue sky here and
there. Still cold, still see your breath out in

the air. But the temperature does feel slightly
warmer than it was the day before. You begin to

walk down to the ravine center on the north side
of the ravine where Vorugal's lair once resided.

You can see hundreds of footprints, up and down, through 
the snow, through the ravine; looks like there's been a lot

of foot traffic to and from while you guys were
resting. You make your way to the ice throne of

Vorugal and you see a portion of it has collapsed
inward. But you also see a lot of foot traffic

around, most of the ice spires that remained up
there have been broken. The remaining Draconian

corpses that were adorning them were taken down,
or aren't in sight. And you can see there are a few

remaining dragonborn Ravenites that are stepping
in and out of the cavern-like chamber that you

largely punched through and they continued to
excavate it into the night.

TALIESIN: If you could let them know that we're
going to make one last venture into the ship and

then we'll be on our way.

LAURA: I walk up to one of the guys going in, and
say in Draconic, have you unearthed the giant

ship yet?

MATT: He looks for a second and says, "It is
nothing for us. But we've worked around it." He

points down, and you can see the portion of it that
has collapsed, filled in part at the side and

shoveled out in these large chunks of ice that 
are sitting outside of this cavern area. Parts of the

ship have been moved around-- it looks like it's
been somewhat damaged. It's not a full ship. It's a

large portion of a ship. It looks like in whatever
battle or attack that Vorugal took this ship,

it destroyed a huge portion of it in doing so and
took the rest of it with it, in pieces. And it is

a very pretty ship. It looks like it may have been
the jewel of a navy somewhere. And here it resides.

However, it does appear like the ship has seen
many moons since it was originally taken, if that

makes any sense. Like, it wasn't brought directly
here. It looks like almost a keepsake that

Vorugal has moved from lair to lair.

LIAM: (whispers) Oh, that's legit!

MATT: Has some sort of sentimental value.

LAURA: Oh, wow! It had some engraving on it. You
speak a lot of languages, right?

TALIESIN: Well. I speak a couple of languages, I
read a couple.

MARISHA: What is it?

TALIESIN: Does it look familiar?

MATT: What languages do you know?

TALIESIN: Celestial, Elven, Common.

MARISHA: Sylvan, Primordial, Druidic, Elven.

TRAVIS: Giant, Common.

SAM: Gnomish. That's it.

MATT: You don't even know Common. No one has
understood you this entire game!

LAURA: Pike speaks Dwarvish.

MATT: Pike does pick up on it. It is Dwarvish
text.

TRAVIS: I speak Dwarvish, but I can't read.

MATT: That is a problem.

TRAVIS: I have a belt, yeah.

MATT: It is Dwarven, and as Pike begins reading
around it, this-- it's the name of the ship across

the mast, which is "The Floebreaker." This ship
appears to have been, at least in some way, shape, or

form, designed as a means of travelling through very
far north icy regions, meant to break through

elements of heavy glacier flows and such. The
construction of it, as you get closer to the

actual bit of the ship that is there, you can see
it's very heavily reinforced with metal and has a

very rigid structure to it. The fine scrolling
that you saw before, it looks to be partially

filled with ice at times. So as soon as it broke
away, you could see it's actually more of a harsh,

broken Dwarvish runic writing to it. The ship has
definitely seen a lot of wear and tear. That's

about as much you can make out of it.

LAURA: Can we get inside of it? Is there anything
to see inside of it?

MATT: You can attempt to climb inside if you want to.

MARISHA: How much is exposed right now?

MATT: Just the top of the deck, and where the
mast connects to the-- that portion is still

frozen into the upper part of the throne.
There is no entrance immediately visible, but you can

break through some more ice or try to break
through the actual deck to get there.

MARISHA: I cast a Flaming Sphere.

MATT: Okay. A flaming ball begins to roll on the
bridge of the ship.

MARISHA: Where does it look like the most
convenient entrance? With ice and stuff?

MATT: Maybe four feet away from where the
ice begins. You can see there is one broken

portion of the ship deck, maybe about a three-foot,
four-foot hole that you could melt towards if

you wanted to.

MARISHA: All right, I'm going to concentrate my
Flaming Sphere on that and start melting it.

MATT: Okay. It's taking a while. About how long
does the spell last, the Flaming Sphere?

MARISHA: About a minute, I think?

LAURA: (hums the Jeopardy theme)

MATT: All right, Flaming Sphere, up to a minute,
yeah. The spell expires, the minute done, and you've

managed to melt maybe three inches into the ice?

LAURA: Grog, go punch it.

MARISHA: How much was it?

MATT: About four feet of ice.

MARISHA: Oh, fuck that.

TRAVIS: Ugh! I got it.

MARISHA: I step back.

TRAVIS: And I start going Rocky-ribcage on this
big piece of meat.

MATT: Okay, make your strength check.

LAURA: Natural 20.

TRAVIS: 21.

MATT: 21. He continues to punch, and punch, and
punch, and each one you see the ice crack, pieces

of it break away. You get quite a ways to punching
through towards the direction that you are

currently melting before a lot of the ice crumbles
and falls and almost buries you for a second. But

you knock it away and pull yourself out of it as
you do, scooping the shards that occupied the

space where you were and get out of the way.

MARISHA: I cast a Gust cantrip over top of
him to keep ice from falling on him.

LAURA: I hope there's really something in here.

MARISHA: Me too.

MATT: Keeps punching. You get to one point, and
you hit, and you hear a (dull impact). You watch a

crack spider up to the top of the throne.

TRAVIS: I think we need to go.

MATT: Portion of the throne above you is now
starting to crack and fall onto the side.

TRAVIS: I start running out of there.

LAURA: We should get out. Let's go.

MARISHA: I also back out.

MATT: Okay. I need the three of you who are
closest to it to make a dexterity saving throw, please.

TRAVIS: Can I use my Boots of Feral Leaping?

MATT: You have advantage on dexterity, though.
You'll be fine.

LIAM: I could've hanged back, but I've been meaning to say 
this whole time that I was creeping around the thrones,

I'm just going to throw that out, that I'm up there.

MATT: Okay, so you see this happening. A portion
of it, like a whole half side of it has cracked

and is sliding down into the cavern that has been
excavated by your party and the Ravenites.

LIAM: So if I'm almost on it, should I be making a
dex save as well?

MATT: If you're almost on it--

LIAM: I was going to poke around and look around
it.

MATT: Only half of it's collapsing, I'll say
sure. Go for it. You who offers me to let you make

a dexterity saving throw, yes. I will take it.

LAURA: Really? Did you really do that?

LIAM: I rolled a one, but I have lots of Luck
left. And now I'm fine.

TRAVIS: I'm not.

LIAM: So that's a 26.

MATT: So yeah. You manage to leap off and
tumble in the snow to the bottom and don't have

to worry about it. Travis?

TRAVIS: Eight. With advantage.

LAURA: 29.

MARISHA: Eight.

TALIESIN: 19. But I burned a Resolve.

MATT: So as you guys dart out, Grog and Keyleth
unfortunately are left a little bit behind. You

both are pummelled with chunks of hard ice and
jagged points of broken frost there, dealing 13

points of bludgeoning and piercing damage to both
of you. And you find yourselves partially buried

in the ice that cracks off it. You see most of
Keyleth's body is currently buried, just her head

and arms are out. And Grog, you're about up to
your waist now in broken ice and snow. And you're

like, (grunts), and pull yourself out.

TRAVIS: Look at Keyleth's arm.

LAURA: Yeah, I see it. Can you get her out?

TRAVIS: Okay. I start moving the ice and pull her
out.

MATT: You pull Keyleth out.

MARISHA: (coughing)

TRAVIS: That didn't go well.

TALIESIN: Let's burrow straight into the side, I
think, to be on the safe side. Let's stop melting ice.

LAURA: Isn't it buried completely at this point?

MATT: At this point, the entire excavation
portion-- by the way, as you guys came back, most

of the gold and platinum that was in there has
been completely removed by the Ravenites over

time. And this whole area that has been excavated
so carefully left it in a precarious place. Those

physical hits by Grog sent that whole south side
of the throne to collapse inwards. So it's

partially collapsed. There's a large pile of ice,
rock and snow. And it's not very accessible from

the current standpoint.

LAURA: Maybe it was one of Vorugal's first
kills or something? And it's sentimental?

TALIESIN: I don't know, I'm irritated by it.

LIAM: I think it might have given him a little bit
of juice when he was at home.

MARISHA: Do you think it has some sort of
icy-like--

LIAM: Extra ability when he was here, maybe.

MARISHA: I could try, and maybe now that the ice
is broken I can melt it through it easier?

LIAM: Why would a dragon keep a boat?

TALIESIN: Why would he?

TRAVIS: Maybe his woobie, you know--?

LAURA: Like a blankie.

LIAM: Yeah. You know about that, Percy?

MARISHA: Some people like collecting ships, you
know? Maybe he's a nautical kind of guy.

TRAVIS: Yeah, guns and ships.

LAURA: He was a nautical kind of guy.

MARISHA: Right, yeah.

TRAVIS: (hums the intro of "Alexander Hamilton")

LIAM: While we're all standing here with our
thumbs in our butts, could I look around and see

if I see a little stone, a little palantir?

MATT: Make a investigation check.

SAM: Where are you standing?

LIAM: Ugh, Luck again. Jeepers creepers.

LAURA: He's up top.

SAM: If he's up top, I would have been up there
with him, too.

LIAM: 26.

SAM: I'm a crow. Circling around, watching him
from above.

LIAM: I'm invisible.

SAM: Well, I'm watching the area.

MATT: All right. What did you roll? 26? Yeah. You
see within the north side of the throne, there are

two orbs embedded in the ice, about a foot beneath
the surface. Previously you saw more.

LIAM: In the past, in other locations, you mean?

MATT: No, meaning when you guys first came to this
when he wasn't there, you saw three stones. You now see two.

But half of the throne has collapsed as well.

LIAM: And how far down are they under the ice?

MATT: About a foot, a foot and a half from the
surface.

MARISHA: Never mind.

LIAM: I'm going to go find my sister.

LAURA: (groans) It's--

LIAM: Hey! I'm invisible! Here I am.

LAURA and LIAM: Hi.

LAURA: Did you see it? It collapsed.

LIAM: Yes, I saw it. I dodged out of the way.

LAURA: Good.

LIAM: I'm right here.

LAURA: I know! I'm looking at you.

LIAM: Yes, but I'm invisible.

LAURA: I'm looking in your direction.

LIAM: Boop!

LAURA: Ugh, goddamn it.

LIAM: Remember those little round seeing stones?

LAURA: Yeah.

LIAM: There's a couple under the ice over there. Now,
I was invisible so I don't--

LAURA: You saw them under the ice?

LIAM: Yeah.

LAURA: You saw a couple under the ice?

LIAM: A couple under the ice, a foot or two away.

LAURA: Where were the other ones?

LIAM: I didn't see any other ones.

LAURA: Were they there before it collapsed?

LIAM: I don't know. I was standing right beneath
the throne when the throne collapsed. Then I found them.

LAURA and LIAM: Were they near the area that it
collapsed?

MATT and LIAM: One of them was, yeah.

LAURA, MARISHA, TALIESIN, and TRAVIS: Fuck!

LIAM: Fucking--

SAM: (caws)

MARISHA: Hold on, did we maybe get-- is Thordak
going to-- we should go.

LAURA: Fuck!

MARISHA: Percy, want to leave a mark anymore?

LAURA: We should tell Tooma that--

TALIESIN: We left one.

LAURA: I go find Tooma.

MATT: The handful of dragonborn that were there,
after the collapse, were walking back to the

internal cavern area. As you head back, a large
portion of Ravenites have all come out of their

caves, and right now are in the process of
scouring the ruins. Some of them are putting

armaments away. Tooma is out there, currently
conversing with a number of the other community

leaders that are deciding what the next steps
are.

MARISHA: I approach Tooma. (clears throat) Tooma,
it's time that we make our departure very soon.

MATT: "Very well."

MARISHA: I want to thank you so much for
everything that you provided and everything that

your people have done.

MATT: "I wish to thank you for your sticking to
your word."

MARISHA: Of course. I would love to help and leave
some parting gift in any way that I can.

MATT: "The riches from the hoard will provide
enough for us. You need not worry."

MARISHA: What was your land like before Vorugal
got here? I know it wasn't as icy and as frigid.

MATT: "It was without snow. We are at the
south side of Wildemount. I hope this fades with

"time, we are not bound for snow people."

MARISHA: I can attempt to maybe revitalize your
plant life as much as I can before I leave.

MATT: "You can do this?"

MARISHA: I can.

MATT: "By all means. We would appreciate it."

MARISHA: You have a good, strong people and I
want to see your recovery. Just like I hope the

same with mine.

MATT: "Me too."

MARISHA: Anything that I can do.

LAURA: Tooma?

MATT: "Yes?"

LAURA: You know the stones we talked about?

MATT: "Yes."

LAURA: Yeah, they got jostled.

MATT: "Why?"

LAURA: It looks like that ice wasn't super-strong,
and it collapsed.

TALIESIN: The ice was going to collapse
eventually, anyway.

MATT: "What does this mean?"

LAURA: Not sure exactly.

MATT: "Okay."

LAURA: But you should keep an eye on the sky. If you
see something red, maybe hide. Just for a while.

Thordak doesn't know what was here. But if he
realizes Vorugal's been killed, he'll come

looking. Potentially.

MATT: "But you're going to kill this Thordak,
yes?"

LAURA: Oh, yeah! With your help, I think. Just in
case he comes before we get to him.

MATT: "You should get to him quickly, then."

LAURA: Good plan.

MATT: "Good."

LIAM: The whole time she's been talking, her braid
has been going like a magical jump rope because I'm

standing here doing this with it.

LAURA: Not. The time.

TALIESIN: If you find something--

LAURA: (whispers) Fucking dick! Stop it!

TALIESIN: If you find an ice weapon in that ship
beneath the throne-- anything magical, some sort

of ice power, we may need it. That may be useful.

MATT: "Keep in mind for it."

MARISHA: I go up to the group. Percy, Vax, I need
to take time with this, so are you all all right

spending the rest of the day here while I help
them?

LAURA: Of course.

TALIESIN: Yeah.

MARISHA: All right. I ascend to the top of the
ravine and I start meditating, and I cast Plant Growth.

LAURA: We all need to go up there anyway because
that's where the trees are that we're going to

transport through, right?

MARISHA: Yeah.

LAURA: We make our way to the top of the ravine
as well.

MATT: What level is Plant Growth?

MARISHA: Third.

MATT: 3rd-level. Gotcha.

MARISHA: And I'm doing the eight-hour--

LAURA: Eight hours!

MATT: Boy, guys!

SAM: Super boring day for us.

MARISHA: Yep. Sorry.

TALIESIN: God, I want to get in that ship!

MARISHA: I start doing that and revitalizing their
landscape as close to what it was before, giving

their-- [no audio]

MATT: It affects all normal plants within a
hundred-foot radius. So you have a very specific

portion that you revitalize in the ravine.

MARISHA: Okay. Well, I talked to Tooma and find
out where she--

MATT: Actually, no, all plants in a
half-mile radius are--

MARISHA: That's what I thought, yeah. In the eight
hour one that's like, crazy.

MATT: I should have kept reading. Okay, so yeah.
You talk to her about it, and she tells you,

"The ravine itself does not have the nutrients to
support crops, but we had farmland right

"above the ravine."

MARISHA: All right. Do you plan to still reside
there?

MATT: "Once the snow melts, yes."

MARISHA: I'll do what I can. And I go there.

MATT: Okay. You get there, and through the use of
your elemental magics, you easily cast aside the

snow. And from underneath, you can see where once
there was a heavy amount of cropland that has all

died off because of the recent freeze that came
with Vorugal. You take the eight hours to

concentrate and as you, do you enrich the land. You
can watch as many of these dead seeds come to life

with green once more. Suddenly, you see sprouting
bits of delicious cabbages and other forms of

produce begin to spring to life and grow nutrient
rich. As this happens, you can see a few of the

Ravenites who followed you to watch this are taken
aback and excitedly rush down to tell the rest of

the people. The rest of you are bored out of your
mind for the next eight hours.

TRAVIS: Kima and I are sparring.

SAM: Challenge Vax to a peeing in the snow
contest.

MATT: He's had a lot of wine.

LIAM: Oh yeah, that was last night.

LAURA: So you're pretty hungover, you don't have a
lot.

SAM: Distance and accuracy.

LIAM: (sings a fanfare) I've brought one
from your house.

SAM: It's gone.

LAURA: It disappeared.

LIAM: Damn it!

MATT: Yes, as you reach for it, there's nothing
there.

LAURA: That's amazing.

MATT: So you guys have fun sparring for a while,
you beat the crap out of each other off and on for

a few hours and you both feel good about it. When
the eight hours have finished, you guys reconvene.

LIAM: V-A-X. Your turn.

MARISHA: Vax is shorter than Scanlan.

TRAVIS: Cursive, baby.

MATT: I want both of you guys to make performance
checks

SAM: Okay.

Performance for peeing in the snow.

LAURA: Oh, what what. He's got a really high
modifier, though.

LIAM: Oh, I'm sure he'll win.

TALIESIN: No, you're going to win.

SAM: Not good.

LIAM: No, even at his lowest it'll be higher I
bet.

SAM: 18.

LIAM: 21.

MATT: You want to add your d12?

LIAM: Zorro.

MATT: You can add your own bardic inspiration.

LIAM: Yeah, if he thinks of it.

SAM: It's a fair fight.

MATT: Okay, okay.

SAM: This is a fair fight.

MATT: It is close, but as much as your cursive
writing was on point, it was impressive that Vax

was capable of cursive drawing the X, stopping and
then crossing the X.

SAM: Whoa.

TRAVIS: It stings when you stop.

SAM: That's impressive, but you know my wang is
built for power, not accuracy.

LAURA: As soon as the cube comes out: can I talk
to you, do you mind stepping away?

TRAVIS: With the cube out?

SAM: You talking to me?

LAURA: No, not you.

TALIESIN: Sure, yeah, I'm going to do nothing but
stare at that bloody ship if I don't, so sure.

LAURA: How are you, after dying?

TALIESIN: I'm trying really hard not to think
about it, actually. I don't know, honestly. There

hasn't been a lot of time to process.

LAURA: No, there hasn't. It's a lot in a few days.

TALIESIN: I would say it would be nice to be going
home, except I know what we're going home to. So

there's going to be no relief.

LAURA: No, not for a while, I don't think.

TALIESIN: That creature hanging around.

LAURA: Yes.

TALIESIN: Yeah, death was not pleasant.

LAURA: No. I have to tell you something

TALIESIN: All right.

LAURA: Do you know what Fenthras means?

TALIESIN: I don't, actually.

LAURA: It comes from the Elvish words, I'm
surprised. Growth and protection.

TALIESIN: I would've eventually looked it up. It's
the sort of terribly boring thing I would do.

LAURA: It's odd that Saundor had it for so long,
since he was quite the opposite of that, don't you think?

TALIESIN: I tend to think that many people tend to
exalt the exact opposite of what they are.

LAURA: Yes. I don't know, I think he focused for
so long on the betrayal of his love, on all of the

horrible things within himself that caused that,
that he became the physical embodiment of it. And

I think he was trying to do the same thing to me. Even
though I refused him, I could feel those seeds

being planted. Self-doubt and loathing echoing in
my mind every night. Reliving every wrong that

people have done to me and everything I have done.

TALIESIN: I recently-- I will say, before death-- had a 
bit of an epiphany, and have been trying--

not always succeeding, but trying-- not to 
dwell on such things.

LAURA: That's actually what I wanted to talk to
you about. In the fight with Ripley.

TALIESIN: Yes.

LAURA: Your last words to her were, "I forgive
you."

TALIESIN: Yes.

LAURA: It was such a surprise.

TALIESIN: Yes.

LAURA: I pull out Fenthras and I show him what
I've carved onto it, it's "sinaeth." Do you know

that word?

TALIESIN: How common is that word?

MATT: You know the word.

TALIESIN: I would know the word.

LAURA: It's forgive.

TALIESIN: Oh.

LAURA: I carved this on Fenthras because that's
the key, isn't it? It's the only way to really grow.

TALIESIN: I think so. I'm trying. It's the only
thing I've tried that's made any sense so far. And

it felt very liberating, it felt good, it felt
perfect. And it wasn't about her. It was just

about me. Honestly, that was really the thing that
I noticed, was I didn't say it to make her feel

better, I didn't say it to give her any peace. I
came to that feeling before running into her. I

didn't know if it would be true when I saw her,
but I feel like so much of my energy had been such

a waste. And worse than a waste, it had been
twisted in the wrong direction. And it's too late

for a lot of things. There are things I cannot
take back and things that I have done that will

forever be terrible, but that's not the point, I
suppose.

LAURA: It isn't. Whoever that boy was that created
those things, that suffered such horrors that he

felt they were justified? You have to forgive him,
too. Because everything you've suffered and

endured and created in that time has made you into
the person you are now. And you have a brilliant

mind. And any darkness that might cloud your
vision on occasion, the fact that you found it

within yourself to forgive her means that it will
never overtake you.

TALIESIN: Thank you. I would like to think we're
all better than we think we are. Except maybe

your brother. I think he's just a mess.

LAURA: He's terrible, isn't he? Just the worst.

TALIESIN: Is he in here?

LAURA: Maybe, he's probably hiding somewhere.

TALIESIN: Shouldn't have given him that ring.
Thank you. I know I have to forgive myself. I'm

not quite there yet, but I can see a path. I like
where we are and what we're doing. I think that

we're the right people in the right place and the
right time.

LAURA: I agree. And this engraving is a reminder
that every time I attack, it's not out of

vengeance.

TALIESIN: I would be horrified if you were taking
yourself too seriously.

LAURA: Never. Did you see the bear that I carved
on the tree? It's quite lovely.

TALIESIN: It was quite lovely. I don't know if the
tree is quite as happy with it, but I was quite

impressed.

LAURA: Thank you.

TALIESIN: Thank you.

LAURA: That's all.

TALIESIN: What room are we in, out of curiosity?

LAURA: There's no room, we're in the woods.

TALIESIN: Oh, no room, we're in the woods. Yeah,
all right. As I walk away, I walk up.

I kiss her.

So we'll talk later. And I walk away.

LIAM: (singing) Anything can happen in the woods.

TALIESIN: Bless you.

TRAVIS: (high-pitched) Oh shit!

MATT: And it's ten o'clock. We're going to go
ahead and end today's session.

TALIESIN: Bam, motherfuckers! Bam!

TRAVIS: (singing) Go on and kiss the girl.

LAURA: Oh man, oh man.

MATT: Thank you guys for watching! That episode 
had a lot of interesting moments.

SAM: We had an elephant fight.

(laughter)

MATT: The spoils of war.

TRAVIS: A whole bunch of new shit.

LIAM: Look at our signatures in the snow, that's
fucking beautiful!

TALIESIN: There was pissing, there was kissing,
there was everything!

SAM: Pissing and kissing.

TALIESIN: Pissing and Kissing is the title.

MARISHA: That's a good title.

MATT: That is not going to be the title.

LIAM: I shit it.

TALIESIN: You're welcome, Internet.

MATT: Well then. We'll get ourselves to rest for
the evening. You guys do the same, thank you for

hanging in there. Once again, amazing community,
we love you guys so much, all the support you

have. Make sure to dig into all the awesome
charities that we support, and you guys support as

well. We're continuously getting messages from
them, blown away by the generosity of the Critter

and Team Hooman community, so thank you guys so
much for your support on those.

LAURA: Thank you, Backblaze.

ALL: Thanks, Backblaze!

TRAVIS: That amazing commercial. They're always so
good.

MATT: I guess until next week, guys. Is it
Thursday yet? See you then.

TRAVIS: Oh shit, man!