MATT: Hello everyone, and welcome to tonight's
episode of Critical Role, where a bunch of us

nerdy-ass voice actors sit around and play
Dungeons & Dragons. Tonight is going to be

interesting based on where we left off last time,
but before we get to all of that, let me get

through tonight's announcements for you guys so we
can get to the game proper. For those of you who

are drinking: first shot, there you go. First and
foremost, tonight's episode is brought to you by

our good friends at Loot Crate!

ALL: Loot Crate!

MATT: Sam, did you want to take us away?

SAM: Guys! Loot Crate has a brand new theme for
December, Revolution! They're always watching,

they've designed a system to keep you down,
they're meddlesome, it's time for a revolution!

Here's the thing. Every week I do these sort of
funny bits about Loot Crate. This week, it's going

to be hard for me, because-- to get real with you
guys for a second-- my son, this morning, at his

preschool they found that his pre-school's bunny
has deceased.

(sympathetic noises)

SAM: And so they wanted me-- I talked to some of
the kids. Some of the kids are actually-- they

like the show? And they asked if I could bring the
bunny in a Loot Crate to pay tribute.

LAURA: I do not believe you. You're not--

SAM: So it's here. Because this makes the bunny
sort of part of the show. And the kids and the

parents helped a little, they wrote a little
something to commemorate the bunny and I'm going

to read that for the kids. For the kids! What can
be said about Dennis the Hopper? The bestest bunny

the Little Explorer's classroom ever had, the way
he always jumped left paw first, or nibbled on

Olivia's Yo Gabba Gabba backpack? The way he
pooped whenever Maddie picked him up. We'll miss

your floppy ears, your soft fur, but most of all,
your inner beauty. Love, the Little Explorers:

Maddie, Olivia, Salinger, Paris, Justice, Woodley,
Appalonia, DeGrass, Garvey, Barack, Sashimi,

Neptune, Sevigny, Coachella, Aaliyah, Walnut, and
Kevin.

MARISHA: To be fair, that sounds like a southern
California school. Silverlake!

SAM: And now to honor their request to make the
bunny part of Critical Role forever, I'm going to--

TRAVIS: Don't touch it, man!

SAM: We'll miss you, Dennis.

TRAVIS: How long has that chicken been sitting in
that box?

SAM: Little long.

(laughter)

LIAM: Hi to PETA, by the way.

TRAVIS: Fucking hell. We have these amazing Loot
Crate DX boxes!

MATT: Go to lootcrate.com/criticalrole and use the promo code
CriticalRole, one word, you get 10% off your first

month of Loot Crate. Sam couldn't say that because
his mouth is full of bunny. But let's go ahead and open.

MARISHA: The DX boxes aren't the clothes boxes,
are they?

LAURA: No, no no. That's Loot Crate Clothes. But
wait!

MATT: That's actually really cool.

LAURA: Is there Gears of War stuff in here? I
thought there might be.

MATT: All about the Harry Potter blanket.

LAURA: Shut up!

TRAVIS: I'm a Baratheon, man, this means a lot to
me!

MATT: Look at this blanket, guys: Wanded, and
Extremely Dangerous.

MARISHA: It's going to take me the whole unboxing
to get it open.

TRAVIS: Holy shit!

TALIESIN: There's a Witcher Wild Hunt medallion
paperweight.

MATT: I need more of these medallions, by the
way.

LIAM: Is that an Eye of Acomodo for my shirt?!

LAURA: What's the Harry Potter thing?

TRAVIS: It's a Hogwarts book clip.

MATT: You're slowly becoming more and more
your character.

LIAM: Yeah, he talks just like this!

TALIESIN: This is not kidding around, this is kind
of intense!

SAM: Does that go on your car, what is that?

TALIESIN: It's a paperweight. You could brain
somebody with this.

MATT: This will be a murder weapon in some case
over the next year.

TRAVIS: This is so legit!

TALIESIN: That's a bottle opener right there.

TRAVIS: Since 1963, drawing what acid does to your
brain.

LAURA: Thanks, Loot Crate!

MARISHA: This is my further transformation to
actually becoming Melisandre in School of Thrones.

SAM: Did we show this yet?

MARISHA: Yeah, if anyone doesn't know, Matt
produced, and I helped him in it, we were in this

web series called School of Thrones, like four
years ago. You make a cameo in it.

TALIESIN: Yeah, I have a cameo in it.

MATT: It's ridiculous.

MARISHA: It's basically Game of Thrones in a John
Hughes film. Just watch it.

MATT: Watch it!

LAURA: I really like this.

TALIESIN: I'm stealing some of this stuff.

TRAVIS: I'm a Slytherin prefect, you need to go to
bed, Mr. Mercer. I apparently have an accent for

some reason.

SAM: Guys, I'm going to keep the box in case the
preschool's parrot dies.

TRAVIS: Yeah, you going to start a pet cemetery?

MATT: Awesome. Thank you, Loot Crate. As a heads
up, guys, next week on December 6th from 6:00 to

7:00pm, they're doing a Puzzle Quest special
stream here on Geek & Sundry, and a number of us

are going to be there with Ivan. Big thank you to
Magic the Gathering Puzzle Quest for putting this

together. You guys probably remember back in
September a few of us showed up for Game the Game

Goes Critical, and thanks to you guys supporting
that show, they've come back to have us go ahead and do

this again. So we'll be here next Tuesday from
6:00 to 7:00, leading right up into Talks Machina,

messing around. You can check out their game,
Magic the Gathering Puzzle Quest, on iOS and

Android devices, and we'll see you guys hopefully
next Tuesday.

(air horn)

SAM: Whoa!

TRAVIS: Wow. That's so appropriate.

LIAM: That's my butt!

MATT: I approve now. If that happens during the
game at any given point in time, that's

disadvantage.

(air horn)

MATT: Unless it's really funny.

LIAM: Sound the horns.

MATT: Choose carefully, Liam. Choose carefully.
It's like telling a kid he can choose his own

punishment, it's dangerous. Also, we're helping
support the amazing charity, Worldbuilders, with

Patrick Rothfuss and a number of other great
authors. You can find out more at

worldbuilders.org. They bring the power of readers
and writers and all that type of creativity

together, to raise money to help make the world a
better place. Go check it out, it's a wonderful

group and we'll hopefully be doing more things
with them coming up in the near future. Those

announcements will come as we go forward, but
Patrick Rothfuss, who's a friend of the show, was

a guest on Critical Role--

LIAM: I'm not really very familiar with Patrick
Rothfuss--

MATT: You should read some of his stuff, it's
pretty good, he's a good writer. And apparently is

now making a show with Lin-Manuel.

MARISHA: I hear they're besties. He's actually my
new bestie.

MATT: That's right, yeah, you got a cool ring.

MARISHA: Yeah, he gave me a ring, yeah. My new
best friend.

SAM: He put a ring on it?!

TALIESIN: It is the six degrees of Lin-Manuel now,
isn't it? Kevin Bacon has been unthroned.

MATT: We're all slowly making our way towards
getting him on the show. That's the goal.

TALIESIN: Lin-Manuel, on the show.

LIAM: I'm willing to wait for it.

MARISHA: Lin-Manuel, on this show. This one.

MATT: Next up, this next Monday, actually, we are
doing the final wrap-up episode of Force Grey:

Giant Hunters live at the Egyptian Theater here in
Hollywood from 5:00-8:30pm next Monday. We'll also

be streaming it. The tickets are free, by the way,
so if you're in the vicinity, go ahead and get

some tickets, come join us. We have a great cast,
a couple of new members are joining in for this.

It's going to be a lot of fun and a great finale
for the Force Grey series. Those who watched the

Acquisitions Inc series and their PAX game, there
might be a few fun little nods in there as well.

So, anyway, much love to you guys if you can make
it, if not we'll see you on Twitch on Monday

regardless! And last but not least, here on Geek &
Sundry there is coming up the Dick and Johnson

Ultimate Christmas Special, with lots of familiar
faces. Zach Carr is DMing this, it's a kick ass

and chew bubblegum game, I'm sure you've seen it
probably on Game the Game before, it's a great

game. It's been on a few other projects here. But
Hector and Keller, they're going to be playing

through your favorite BFF duo to save everything
in the world. There might be some cameos, a bunch

of rapid-fire cameos throughout the show, so check
out the Dick and Johnson Save Christmas special at

December 12, at 4:00pm Pacific here on Twitch.
It's going to be fun.

TRAVIS: That is the best name.

MATT: Might be showing up off screen, just to
heckle people. Or more. We'll find out. All right,

any other announcements?

LIAM: Yeah, she's trying to keep it on the down
low, but Laura doesn't have any of her dice,

really. She has three sets instead of the usual
ten.

LAURA: I brought my bag of dice home for the
holiday and then I didn't bring it--

SAM: Why did you bring it home?

LAURA: I maybe was going to give some of our dice
to our winners for the costume contest.

SAM: But instead--

LAURA: I just left them at home.

SAM: I have a bag of dice in there that I've never
used.

LAURA: I have a lot of dice, I just don't have all my
dice, you guys. I still have a bunch up here.

TRAVIS: She literally has 300 over here.

LAURA: I do, I have a lot. But thank you!

TALIESIN: We're doomed.

MARISHA: Speaking of charities, before we go on.
Speaking of charities, I would still like to give

a shout-out to 826LA, who we so love and support.
They're great. People will send us tweets being

like, "Hey, do you guys still support 826LA?"
Always, I don't think you can stop supporting

826LA.

TALIESIN and MARISHA: I don't know, they know what
they did.

TALIESIN: And they have their own shop also, and
if you're interested you can go and shop at 826,

and they have super cool posters and books. And
buttons, and all sorts of stuff that you can get

that they put out that are super super cool.

MARISHA: And I've seen people take you up on your
suggestion that it's always a great date place.

TALIESIN: It is such a good date place.

MARISHA: We've had people tweet at us and be like,
we took you up on that, and it is a good date

place, because they have cute store fronts, so you
should go.

TALIESIN: Yeah. The actual quality of the date is
not guaranteed, but the quality of the venue--

MARISHA and TALIESIN: No. That depends on you.

MARISHA: And we can't help that.

SAM: Could you do a wedding there if you wanted
to?

TALIESIN: A very small one.

SAM: Or a bar mitzvah, or maybe a bris?

TALIESIN: A very small wedding, or a wedding with
small people.

SAM: All right.

MATT: All righty then. On that note, unless anyone
else has anything to say we are going to

dive into tonight's episode of Critical Role.

[dramatic music]

MATT: Welcome back, everyone. Including my party.
Who need to calm the fuck down.

(laughter)

LIAM: Party!

MATT: So, picking up where we left off last time.
The group of intrepid adventurers known as Vox

Machina have been making their way through their
quest to take down the Chroma Conclave, a group of

chromatic dragons who have been terrorizing the
countryside in Tal'Dorei under the rule of Thordak

the Cinder King, a great, powerful, and seemingly
elementally charged ancient red dragon who sits in

the center of the city of Emon. After gathering
the rest of the artifacts you guys have been

seeking, called the Vestiges of Divergence, the
last one being found in the City of Brass upon the

Fire Elemental Plane, you traveled back to Fort
Daxio, a northern fort north of Emon, where you

were planning a trap of some kind for Thordak.
Upon arriving with two charges of yours, two

previously enslaved celestial-blooded boys that
you found in the City of Brass, you all traveled

across the planes, with the help of Keyleth, back
to Fort Daxio to find the landscape scarred with

recent flame and apparently a battle raging at the
outer gate. That is where we left off. So, you

guys, looking northward, you can see the large
plumes of black smoke billowing up from the

direction of the fort. The outer wall seems to
have sustained some damage. You can see a number

of flying entities swooping in. Dozens of them,
while you can hear the distant sound of combat,

shouts and battle. You guys, as you land and
realize this, you can see the two slaves, who have

now been freed and taken with you, both look
immediately wide eyed and freaked out and closed

off. What are you guys doing?

TRAVIS: This is fine.

MARISHA: So much safer here, kids.

LAURA: We need to get them safe.

SAM: Who safe? The place is on fire. They're not
safe.

LAURA: I take off on my broom and fly up in the
air.

SAM: Ah! Wait! You forgot your hat!

LAURA: I want to see up and over the wall and see
what's going on on the inside.

MATT: Okay. So you fly up and head up over the
front wall.

LAURA: I don't want to go in, I just want to
look.

MATT: Right. So you fly up and get a vantage point
to see what's going on over the wall.

LAURA: Yes.

TRAVIS: You're going to get seen.

MATT: As you crest up in the air, you notice that
there are a number of soldiers currently battling

possibly a hundred or more lizard men that have
swarmed into the fort, as well as a number of--

and go ahead and make a perception check actually to
see if you can make some good detailed elements out.

TRAVIS: First roll of the night.

LAURA: First roll, first roll, first roll. Here we
go. 27.

MATT: 27. All right. These are wyvern riders. This
is a group of wyvern riders, with lizard men, that

have swooped in. You can see a number of the siege
elements that have been built by Percy over there,

some have been firing off on the inside or at
least ones that were installed in the actual fort

base. You also see a distant explosion, a flash of
light on one of the walls on the inside. There is

the outer wall, and there is a courtyard in the
actual fortress itself. The front gates to the

inner courtyard have already been breached, and
most of the battle is happening inside the main

courtyard.

TRAVIS: Are we outside the courtyard or inside?

MATT: As you're noticing this, you watch as two
wyverns are now swooping in your direction from

the outside of the outer wall.

SAM: Because they saw you.

MARISHA: So we're on the outside of the wall?

MATT: You guys are far south, probably a good
quarter-mile south of the fort, on the outside of

the wall.

TALIESIN: I say we starting making our way and
deal with this.

LAURA: Yeah. I draw-- are they close enough to
shoot them?

MATT: You can wait until they're close enough.
They're a little bit out of your range right now.

TALIESIN: Is it possible they're out of Bad News'
range or is that even humanly possible?

MATT: You know what, as of right now, you could
probably hit one of them with Bad News.

TALIESIN: All right. I double check. Speak now or
forever hold your peace, I'm doing this.

MATT: What's the long range on it?

TALIESIN: 1,200.

MATT: Okay. You bear down and you--

TALIESIN: 1,200 feet. 1,200 feet.

MATT: Yeah. Go for it. And Laura, you still have
to wait at this point. You're readying your shot.

LAURA: Yeah. But I Hunter's Mark one of them.

MATT: Okay. Aiming for--

LAURA: Oh wait, it's probably a ranged thing too.

MATT: It's okay. You're currently selecting a
wyvern or the rider to fire at?

LAURA: The rider.

TALIESIN: All right. Taking a shot. Oh, that'll
do! 30.

MATT: The explosion from the front of the muzzle
of Bad News fires off, the spark and flame and

smoke billowing forth. The shot has no impact. It
looks like, from gauging at this distance, it was

just outside of the range.

LAURA: Oh, they're 1,200 feet away, they're that
far?

MATT: It's hard to gauge really, at that distance,
whether or not they were there, but apparently the

bullet lost momentum by the time it reached their
position.

TALIESIN: Okay. Reload.

MARISHA: Let's move in.

LAURA: Can I shout down and yell, get the boys
safe! But I don't know who I'm shouting it to,

just one of you guys--

TRAVIS: More impassioned.

LAURA: (yelling) Get the boys safe!

SAM: Oh my god. We have to get these boys to
safety.

TRAVIS: Do we?

MARISHA: Why don't we have them run? Have them
run. Yeah. I grab them and I say, run that way.

Don't die. They're good.

LAURA: Seriously?

TALIESIN: Actually, I've got a better idea.

MARISHA: What?

TALIESIN: Hand them one of the stones.

MARISHA: All right, yeah, sure. I hand them a
gatestone.

TALIESIN: We'll find you when it's safe. Hide
wherever you need to. Stay away from the castle.

We will find you when it's safe.

MARISHA: Hide in the bushes, don't go far.

SAM: Or go anywhere.

MATT: They nod and they take the stone, and they
start running off towards the western edge of this

valley, which has the two cliffsides that come
into the valley here. A lot of the nearby brush

appears to have been burned on the way.

MARISHA: Oh, fuck. I say, try and stay unseen!

MATT: They go darting off, keeping low, and you
get the sense that they're used to fleeing, so

they dart off, arm in arm, rushing off towards the
side of the valley wall.

SAM: So they're gone forever.

MATT: You have time to reload before they get
close enough for her to fire, so if you want to

take another shot.

TALIESIN: Sure. I'll take another shot.

LAURA: Should I hang out and wait or should we--

TALIESIN: Actually, let's head as a group towards
this. I say we run and we take everything that's

heading towards us. I'll wait until they're close
enough that I can get a good--

MARISHA: We all charge for the gate.

MATT: Okay, so you guys are all charging towards
the outer gate. What are you doing, Vex? You watch

the rest of your party darting--

MARISHA: I Message to Vex, and I say, what do you
see? How many wyverns are there? Do you see any

dragons?

LAURA: Do I see any dragons?

MATT: Currently you do not see any dragons at
the--

LAURA: I don't see any dragons, but it looks like
about a hundred enemies.

SAM: Hundred! Is that true? I missed that one.

MATT: Yes.

TRAVIS: That's a lot.

SAM: (laughing) That's more than two.

TRAVIS: Is it?

LIAM: What do you sense? Do you sense dragons?

LAURA: Well, that's going to take a minute.

LIAM: I'd work on that.

SAM: All right, let's just charge in blindly!
There's no cover out here, right?

MATT: There is no cover.

SAM: Let's take out those fucking riders.

MARISHA: We have an Avengers moment. We're
running. Like Guardians of the Galaxy!

TRAVIS: That's like Chariots of Fire. You're doing
the wrong music.

MARISHA: Okay, you know what, any movie where they
run in slow motion toward something, which happens

a lot.

MATT: There you go. As you guys are charging
towards the blown-open gates to the outer

courtyard of Fort Daxio, with Vex swooping down on
her broom with the bow out, you watch as these

wyvern riders come swooping down in your
direction. Their claws extended, their tails and

stingers out forward, they come swooping down. Go
ahead and take a shot. You can take a shot as well.

TALIESIN: I'm taking my first shot. I'm also
making it a wing shot.

LAURA: So I Hunter's Marked them as soon as they
were close enough.

MATT: Yes. Hunter's Mark. There's two, and a third
one has joined, a little behind now. They're

coming upon you. Which one do you Hunter's Mark?

LAURA: The one that's biggest?

MATT: Hard to gauge at this distance.

LAURA: The one that's closest.

MATT: Okay, there you go.

TALIESIN: Wing shot, first one.

LAURA: And I am a third level rogue now.

TALIESIN: 30.

LAURA: So I get advantage on my attack, if they
haven't attacked me yet, right? If they haven't

taken a turn?

MATT: I believe, looking at the specifics there--

LAURA: As an assassin? At your third level, you
get advantage if you get the drop, if they haven't

taken a turn yet.

MATT: Technically--

LAURA: They're moving?

MATT: They know you're around. This is less like
they haven't acted yet. They've been acting. Every

round, they've been dashing toward you. So you do
not have the drop on them, as they've been making

a beeline since the beginning. Apologies.

LAURA: Well, all right. I guess I'll just have a
32 attack, then.

MATT: Okay, I want you and Percy to both roll
damage on those attacks, as these are both guided

at the same individual.

TALIESIN: Okay.

LAURA: 21, and then-- That is awesome.

TALIESIN: 26 points of damage, and he has to make
a strength save against becoming prone.

LAURA: Do I get sneak attack on this?

MATT: No, you would not, unfortunately.

LAURA: Okay, so it's just 21 damage, with four of
lightning.

MATT: Okay! So, as you hear the explosion at the
front of the muzzle of Bad News take off, the

arrow whizzing through the air, both impacting
into each side of the wyvern, you watch as one of

its wings tears open. It tumbles forward, the
rider thrown off its back and clutching onto its

reins, flipping over the side as it corkscrews and
slams into the ground about 150, 200 feet behind

you, skidding across the dirt.

LAURA: Oh, I didn't do Hunter's Mark damage!

MATT: Go for it.

LAURA: An additional three.

MATT: Okay. Effectively slammed and left behind in
the dust right now, it's going to have to get up

and rush to try and catch up to you guys. The
other two are swooping down now and have managed

to get up--

LAURA: Do I get my second attack?

MATT: You do get your second attack, yes. You
could as well, for your round.

LAURA: 21.

MATT: Hits.

TALIESIN: Same thing, with a drop.

SAM: Can I extend my arm, with my Wand of
Fireballs ready to shoot?

MATT: Yeah, actually.

LAURA: 18 damage.

SAM: How far are they?

MATT: At this point, they're maybe 150 feet from
you.

TALIESIN: I don't crit on a 19 yet, do I?

MATT: No.

MARISHA: Do you ever get that?

MATT: At a higher level.

LAURA: Trinket crits on a 19.

MATT: Trinket's cool like that.

MARISHA: Why can't you be Trinket? We love the
bear more than you, Percy.

TALIESIN: Oh, I know. 32 to hit.

MATT: And the save? What's the DC, again?

TALIESIN: I believe it's--

MATT: You have to write down your DC, man.

TALIESIN: I used to. Oh, 19. It's there, I just
couldn't see.

MATT: There you go. This one now, as you guys
both-- you pull back and release your second

arrow, and you take Bad News, reload it, and then
fire again-- you watch as this time, one of the

wings breaks at the hinge. It folds under itself.
The rider, this time, as opposed to holding on, is

thrown and plummets the rest of the distance,
hitting the ground with a very heavy (splat)

against the stonework, his head scattering. The
wyvern ends up slamming into the ground and

skidding off into a big cloud of dust behind you
as well, as you guys continue pushing forward.

However, that does complete your round. The last
one does swoop down and is going to-- You're

making the loudest noise and got the most
attention, so it's going to swoop in your

direction, Percival. It's going to come on down,
it's going to make two attacks on you, and then

harry and lift up. That's with its bite. That's
going to be a miss. It goes to snatch at you with

its bite, and you duck out of the way. However,
the stinger comes up from behind. That is a 19 to hit.

TALIESIN: That just barely hits.

MATT: Just barely hits? Okay. As the stinger slams
into your shoulder, that is ten points of piercing

damage. I need you to make a constitution saving
throw.

TALIESIN: One of those again, okay. Ten points of
damage and a constitution saving throw.

TRAVIS: (singing) Roll high, you blue-haired
motherfucker.

SAM: It's, like, blue and purple.

TALIESIN: I'm going to do a Resolve.

MATT: Okay, to take that saving throw again? Go
for it.

TALIESIN: That's even worse. Do I have to take the
worse one for the Resolve?

MATT: It's whatever you rolled the second time, I
think.

TALIESIN: Can I burn another Resolve, just to fuck
it, because this is annoying me?

LIAM: If it's like Luck, it's a no.

MATT: Let me double check, just a moment.

LAURA: Does it petrify you?

TALIESIN: I'll find out!

MATT: All right, so. This is your Indomitable? Not
Resolve, your Indomitable. You must use the new roll.

TALIESIN: Okay, that's a 12.

MATT: A 12? No. All right, so, as the poison
courses through your body, the stinger itself

pulling forth, you see a bit of black-greenish
liquid spill out as it pulls itself out of the

wound. You suffer 24 points of poison damage as it
then lifts back up out of range and is going to

circle around. You guys all still running? You see
Percy get hit.

SAM: Can I take my Fireball shot?

MATT: You can now. Because it was coming very
close before you had the opportunity to hit, it

swings up past and you can now, reaching behind,
get a Fireball wand shot if you want.

SAM: I will take my Fireball wand shot.

LIAM: How high in the air is it?

MATT: At this point now, as it swooped past, it's
about 40, 45 feet away? A safe enough distance for

the Fireball to not blow up his own party.

SAM: It's got a DC of 15, that wand.

MATT: That is a no. It rolled a three. So go ahead
and roll damage.

SAM: Can I fire more than one charge, or should I
have said that already?

MATT: You should have said that at the beginning.
It's a basic.

SAM: Never mind. So, it's 8d6, right?

MATT: 8d6, you got it. And what are you doing,
Vax?

LIAm: If I can attack, I'm throwing daggers.

MATT: Yeah, you can do that, as it sweeps past
after getting the rapid stinger into the chest.

LIAM: First gets 26, second is a 19.

MATT: Okay, both hit.

LIAM: Okay, dagger, dagger, dagger.

SAM: 33.

LIAM: 14 for the first, and the second is eight.
That's it. It's within 40 feet, you said?

MATT: Yeah, as it swoops past.

LIAM: I am going to Channel Divinity and use a Vow
of-- oh, I can't. Can I ditch the second attack?

MATT: Nah, you've already confirmed it.

SAM: Also, Matthew, I don't know if this affects
anything. I am exhausted. Does that change

anything?

MATT: Correct. You have one point of exhaustion,
which means that your ability checks are at

disadvantage. Keyleth, Grog, do you guys want to
do anything while it passes overhead?

MARISHA: You go first.

TRAVIS: No, please, ladies first. No, I insist.

MARISHA: Okay. I run to Percy and I grab and pick
him up and keep running, and I say, let me know if

you're poisoned.

TALIESIN: Do I feel--?

MATT: It was a burning pain through your body, but
it subsided after the original poison coursed

through your body. So you fought it off
sufficiently afterward.

MARISHA: Okay, I help him up and I say, come on!
And we keep running.

MATT: Okay, you guys keep running. Grog?

TRAVIS: The one that Vax shot that hit the
ground--

LAURA: I'm Vex.

TRAVIS: Yeah, whatever.

MATT: Yeah, that's 200 feet behind you.

TRAVIS: Oh, it's 200 feet.

MATT: You guys have been running this whole time
as it went overhead and crashed into the ground

behind you.

TRAVIS: Oh, I'm good.

MATT: Okay, you guys just keep running? Okay. So,
as you guys continue to run forward, it swings

around after the Fireball detonates, and you see
it wobble in the air for a second. 33 points. The

rider has turned to ash, blown off the top of it.
The wyvern, however, has still found its target

and turns around and on its own is swooping back
towards the group of you guys. You're now about

halfway towards the front gate of the keep, of Fort
Daxio. You guys, both Percy and Vex, with ranged

weapons, you can take your shot now as it's
turning around and returning to you guys, still

charging forward.

LAURA: Hunter's Mark!

MATT: All right, so you move your Hunter's Mark
over to that guy? Go for it.

LAURA: 25.

MATT: That hits.

LAURA: 23.

MATT: All right. 23 damage, nice. All righty.

LAURA: On the first arrow.

MATT: Yes. Second one?

LAURA: That is, what, 23? Yeah. 23.

TRAVIS and LAURA: 22.

MATT: Right, so there's five plus three for this,
and it's plus eight damage-- Oh, to hit! Okay.

Both hit. I was like, that's really high damage
for arrows! My apologies.

TRAVIS: Two ones in a row.

LAURA: Shut up! Ugh! 13.

MATT: 13 damage?

LAURA: Three ones in a row!

TRAVIS: I guess you've got to throw those dice
away! Only 900 left.

MATT: So running forward, you turn around behind,
over your shoulder. You switch your actual direction

of arrows you normally fire with and turn the
other way. Both arrows sink into it and you see it

wobble in the air. Percy.

TALIESIN: I'm going to take, on the fall-down, I
put Bad News away and I pull Animus out because

it's closer now. So I can take easier pot shots at
it. 31.

MATT: Hits.

TALIESIN: How many shots, can I take a full round
of shots, or--?

MATT: You can if you want to.

TALIESIN: I'll take a full round. 31. 26.

MATT: 26 hits.

TALIESIN: And 33.

MATT: All three hit. Go ahead and roll damage.

TALIESIN: Where are my d10s at? That's not a d10.
There we go. That's three shots, it's 17--

SAM: So much math!

TALIESIN: I'm making sure I do this right
because-- 24 points, 34 points, 41 points of

damage plus--

MATT: Not on one hit. That's all of his attacks.

TALIESIN: Three, it's three, yeah. 41 points of
damage plus ten points of psychic damage.

MATT: Nice.

TALIESIN: That was three shots.

MATT: All righty, so all three shots pelt it in
the chest. You can see giant sections of its meaty

chest blown open and it's streaking dark wyvern
blood behind it. However, it's still flying. The

fervor on its face as it's near death is causing
it to get more intense as it swoops down toward

you. Streaking out, the tail ends up curling
beneath. It's going to take a shot toward you,

Percy, as you were the one that most recently hit
it and did the most damage. With the bite, that is

a 24 to hit.

TALIESIN: Oh, that hits.

MATT: And the stinger is at only a 13 to hit.

TALIESIN: That does not hit!

MATT: So, the stinger, seeing it coming this way,
you duck out of the way. However, its giant wyvern

jaws clamp down and streak across your shoulder as
the momentum pulls it past, dragging it across the

back. For that, you suffer ten points of piercing
damage.

MARISHA: That's not too bad.

MATT: As it comes down at that point, it's back in
range for any of you melee folk that want to take

a swing at it. Grog?

TRAVIS: Can I rage, and can I take a swing at
Falcor, please?

MATT: Yes, you can!

TRAVIS: Okay! Lovely.

LIAM: We have no initiative, so I don't know who's
where. Am I close enough to go after Grog?

MATT: Yes. I'm keeping tabs because this is more
of a flyby as you guys are running.

TRAVIS: Could I make it a reckless attack,
please?

MATT: Sure, yeah. A lot of these are happening
simultaneously.

TRAVIS: 25.

MATT: That hits. Go ahead and roll damage.

TRAVIS: Nine, 22, plus two points of necrotic,
24.

MATT: Okay, as it swoops down and bites into
Percy's arm as it drags up in the air, you watch

as a very fast-running Grog, who's been ahead of
the group at this point, his speed is higher than

anybody, spins around, axe in the air, and carves
right through the front of its chest to its back.

It (screeching) and slides into two pieces that
then scatter into the ground, smearing black

darkness across the dry, desert floor. You guys
continue to run forward. Currently, all your

harrying wyverns are way too far behind and
damaged or not paying attention, before you guys

are just now reaching the outside of the busted Fort
Daxio outer wall, where the front gates are

collapsed inward and slightly burned.

TRAVIS: Didn't seem like that big of a problem.
That was not so tough.

LAURA: There's a hundred more guys inside, Grog!

TRAVIS: I know, you keep saying that number, like
I know what it means, so let's get it on.

MARISHA: Grog, Grog! 100 needs three hands to
make.

TRAVIS: How many hands?

MARISHA: It needs--

TRAVIS: How many?

LAURA: Keep running!

MARISHA: Okay. Keep running! Keep running!

TALIESIN: It's not helpful.

MATT: You guys all go into the front gates?

LAURA: I'm on the broom, so I'm up and over the
wall.

MATT: Okay. You come up over the top of the wall.
As you get up over the top, immediately you see

they have two large ballistae. The number of
ballistae installed throughout the walls here, two

of them have already been torn apart and whoever
was manning them is lying on the ground, torn open

and dead. But you do also see other dead
lizardmen. It looks like a fight has been

going on for a short time here and has been a back
and forth. As you guys come into the main courtyard,

you find the ground is charred with small flames
that are still burning on bushes, and elements of

piles of broken wood and things that were part of
the encampment that just caught fire. You can see

groups of lizardmen battling various soldiers,
some of them still screaming and the sound of

lizard-like battle cries as they charge in,
slamming weapon against weapon, shield against

face. This is an actual small-scale war happening
inside here. It's hard to tell which side is

winning. A lot of the soldiers are better-trained,
but occasionally you watch as a wyvern swoops down

and picks up a soldier and throws them off the
side, and slams into the ground, no longer

moving.

MARISHA: Do we see anyone we know?

SAM: Where's Elle?

MARISHA: Do we see Allura?

MATT: Perception check.

MARISHA: Come on, opal dice. That's not bad! 26.

SAM: Oh, disadvantage.

MATT: Disadvantage for you, buddy.

SAM: Oh, okay. 14.

MATT: Okay. So the two of you, as soon as you dart
inside and glance over, you can see nobody that

catches your familiar eye. Everyone who is in
armor is in full armor. They're all in the actual

Fort Daxio defense regalia and they are covered in
blood, they're covered in soot and they are not

paying attention to you because they are fighting
for their lives right now. You can see there are

a number of tents to the side, dried trees that have
burnt out entirely. You can see a number of the

trebuchets that you have repaired earlier that
have already torn down, or at least have suffered

partial damage from fire or other elements,
bludgeoning.

MARISHA: But there doesn't seem to be any tabards
from Emon, or any tabards from Syngorn or anything

like that?

MATT: No. It looks like when this began, currently
only Daxio's army was here. And is here

currently.

MARISHA: I mean, that still sucks. But okay.

MATT: Yeah. You do watch and see as currently,
there is no tension toward you because the battles

happening right now are still happening. You see
multiple soldiers gathering around wyverns that

have been dragged to the ground with chain or have
nets thrown over them, and soldiers are gashing, running

up and slashing and stabbing as they can, while the
lizardman carves its way through, and takes its

spear and starts piercing out with its shield. As
you look around, nothing but insanity going

around. What are you guys doing?

LAURA: Are there any clusters that look like not a
lot of our soldiers around, just lizardmen? Or is

it all mixed in together?

MATT: It's all mixed in right now. It's a
free-for-all. There's no group of lizardmen

sitting around and waiting out for a target.

LAURA: Are there any wyverns in the sky that don't
see us?

MATT: There are a number of wyverns scattered that
are currently swooping down and being part of the chaos.

MARISHA: About how many wyverns?

MATT: Currently not engaged on the ground? I'd say
about seven.

TRAVIS: Can I go full murderhobo status and find a
group of people on the ground that need help?

MATT: Yeah, totally.

LAURA: I want to try to get a sneak attack on one
of the wyverns.

MARISHA: I'm going to also go for the wyverns.

TALIESIN: I'm going to activate my spider-climbing
boots and going to reload and I'm going to start

walking around and pot-shotting anything on the
ground that's giving trouble. If I see somebody,

I'm shooting until they stop.

MATT: Okay. There are masses of lizardmen in this
area that are in the middle of the fray. As soon

as you guys storm in and start making noise,
making your presence know, a number of them who

are waiting for a way to pierce in and get their
weapons into the last of these soldiers that are

fighting off, as best they can, the last
stand they have here at the outside of Fort Daxio,

some of them turn over their shoulders and see you
and start rushing in. You guys, with ranged

weapons, you go first. Go ahead and roll attacks
on this.

LAURA: I get advantage because the wyverns
don't see me, right?

MATT: The wyverns have not seen you.

LAURA: Okay.

MATT: Actually, make a stealth check, just to make
sure you've made your way in carefully. They're

not paying attention to you, but they may or may
not see you out of their peripheral.

LAURA: 19.

MATT: Okay, yeah. The one you're aiming at has not
seen you.

LAURA: Okay. 33.

MATT: 33 hits.

TALIESIN: I am going to cast on whatever the
biggest one is, and I'm going to cast Hex, which I

still have. And I'm taking my first shot. 28.

MATT: 28 hits.

TALIESIN: Gun jam!

TRAVIS: Damn it!

LAURA: 31. 31 on the first hit.

TALIESIN: I take five points of damage.

MATT: Okay. What was that, the first one?

LAURA: 31.

MATT: 31, nice!

LAURA: And the same, it's another 35 attack.

MATT: That hits.

TALIESIN: Before I went down, I do 15 points of
damage plus four points of psychic damage before

the gun jammed.

LAURA: 25 on the second.

MATT: 25 damage? Great! So that one you're aiming
at had already taken some damage in the battle.

Its rider had already been torn off of it and it's
basically on automatic tear-and-destroy mode. Both

of your arrows-- one finds the side of its throat.
As it whips its head around to look at the

direction it came with, this one finds the eye at
front of its snout, sinks in, and it slowly, limply

falls out in the air and smashes into the ground,
maybe 25 feet to your right.

TALIESIN: It also would have taken six points 
of necrotic damage to it, so.

MATT: Okay, cool. You're aiming at the same one as
her?

TALIESIN: Yeah.

MATT: You guys (impact). This poor wyvern gets
torn asunder.

TRAVIS: Poor, my ass!

LAURA: Poor your ass!

MATT: (laughs) Poor Travis' ass!

SAM: Tall cup of Travis' ass.

MATT: You watch as a number of these lizardmen,
six to be exact, all start rushing in towards you

guys as they were firing at the wyvern in the air.
What are you guys doing at this point? You just

have a wave of them coming at you right now.

LIAM: I'm following Grog to get his scraps.

MARISHA: They're coming at us?

MATT: Yeah, you guys are still clustered
together.

MARISHA: Is it a group of-- how many?

MATT: Six. They're just charging straight at you.
Some have swords, shields, and spears like

(snarling).

MARISHA: Before anything crazy happens, I'm going
to go ahead and pull up the Spire of Conflux and

I'm going to Fireball right where they are.

MATT: As they're charging in, you watch the staff
slam into the ground. As it slams into the ground,

you can see at the very tip, there's a small piece
of crystalline energy that begins to go from a

dull greenish-blue to a bright red. And as it hits
the apex of its glow, a single beam of red energy

streaks forward towards them as they're all
charging. What's the DC on that?

MARISHA: 19.

SAM: 19 on the Spire?!

MATT: Well, it's whatever her spell DC is when she
cast it.

SAM: Damn!

MATT: And no, none of them make it! So go ahead and
roll the damage on that.

MARISHA: Wait, Fireball. I don't know this
damage.

SAM: 8d6. Radius 20.

MARISHA: Give me two. I get to reroll ones, too,
because it's fire damage.

MATT: Yep.

MARISHA: And I got three ones. So those will all
get rerolled.

SAM: Is that true?

MARISHA: That is true.

MATT: It's an ability of the Spire.

TALIESIN: That's nuts.

MARISHA: Ten, 15, 25 points.

MATT: 25 points of damage?

SAM: There's another six up there, the red one.

MARISHA: One, two, three, four, five, six, seven,
eight! 25, 30 points of damage.

MATT: 30 points of fire damage.

MARISHA: Thanks, Sam!

MATT; As you guys are getting your weapons ready,
you have both your daggers out at the side. You

have your axe at the batter-up position. You watch
as suddenly they burst into red flame and a number

of their charred, burning bodies tumble to the
ground, motionless. As the fire subsides, all six

have been destroyed by the blast from the
Fireball.

TRAVIS: That's what we were going to do, right?
Yeah! That's basically what we had in mind.

LIAM: This knife does the same fucking thing.

TRAVIS: I thought so. I've see it happen. Really,
I have. Impressive, Keyleth. Impressive. Yeah.

Point it towards the enemies, okay?

MATT: As the chaos is still happening, you watch
as another blast of flame explodes on the top

tower that is the front of the fortress itself,
and you hear what sounds like dual Wilhelm screams

as two guys who were situated on the top, running
to of the ballista, get blown off and both slam

into the ground, faces and necks snapped from the
impact on the floor. Looking up in that direction,

you watch as another streak of bluish-green arcane
energy shoots up a few hundred feet into the sky,

and it (poof), as a sort of signal for them.

MARISHA: No, no, no!

MATT: You look up top as you see one wyvern is
curling its way, perched up on the edge of it. And

there, jumping onto its back, you see an elf. An
elf with longish, blonde hair. Robes that are

bloodied. It gets up and holds onto the reins.

SAM: How far?

MATT: At this point? He's probably about 80 feet
from you. You guys are halfway across the

courtyard to the actual fortress.

LIAM: He's up on the wall?

SAM: Can I shoot him with lightning?

MATT: If you want to get close.

SAM: I mean, that's a 100-foot range.

MATT: So, yes. You could.

SAM: He's a bad guy?

LAURA: I don't know!

MARISHA: He's on a wyvern, so I'm going to say
maybe.

LAURA: Can I shoot him with a Bramble Shot?

MATT: About 45 feet up.

LAURA: I want to try to shoot him with a Bramble
Shot.

MATT: Shoot him?

LAURA: Yeah!

MATT: Okay!

SAM: He's on a bad wyvern, right? This is a bad
guy.

LAURA: I think so.

MATT: For the purposes of this, guys, we're going
to go ahead and roll initiative.

LAURA: He's a bad guy!

MATT: Well, you don't know if he's a bad guy or
not! But he's on the battlefield.

LAURA: That's why I'm Bramble Shotting him.
Because I'm trying to tangle him up.

MATT: Pike has been having a hard time keeping up
with everyone with her tiny, short legs.

LAURA: Pike!

MARISHA: Come on, Pike! Come on!

TALIESIN: I'm rolling really poorly.

TRAVIS: Yeah, me too.

LAURA: Do you have your snitch?

TALIESIN: Yeah. It's just rolling poorly.

LAURA: Do you want one of mine?

TALIESIN: No, no.

TRAVIS: Take your clothes off, Taliesin, reset.

SAM: I'll take my clothes off. If it'll inspire
us.

LAURA: Oh, no. What is it? Do it, Sam!

TRAVIS: Do it slowly. Do it.

(yelling)

TRAVIS: Holy fuck!

LIAM: Triple disadvantage for the night!

TALIESIN: We're dead, we're going to die.

SAM: It's on.

(laughter)

TRAVIS: For the rest of the game, you've got to
look at that--

LIAM: May the odds be ever in your favor.

(laughter)

MATT: Forgot to mention the new GM Tips episode is
out this week, talking about how to deal with

Player Character deaths.

(laughter)

SAM: Oh, man! If I died in this shirt, it would be
the worst way.

(laughter)

MATT: Oh my god! Sam! Sam!

LIAM: We've never seen the picture at
that size. And it makes me want to Goonies-style

cut a hole in the mouth.

MATT: No one should ever say, "I want to cut a
hole in the mouth of a picture of you." I do want

to say that is pretty much life-size, which is
really creepy.

SAM: I wish I could do what Travis can do with his
pecs, but I--

(laughter)

TRAVIS: You're there, you're there.

MATT: With you guys on the battlefield, let's roll
initiative.

ALL: We did.

TRAVIS: We have to do it again?

TALIESIN: I'd love to do it again.

MATT: (sing-song) Sorry!

MARISHA: That was funny.

MATT: You guys.

SAM: He's a bad guy, right? I mean, we can kill
him, right?

TRAVIS: Kill him anyway. And find out later.

TALIESIN: We can also take out his ride.

LAURA: Yeah, we can take out the wyvern.

MATT: 25 to 20?

LAURA: 25.

LIAM: 22.

MATT: Nice. 20 to 15?

MARISHA: 15.

MATT: I need someone to roll for Pike, by the
way.

LAURA: Eight. I don't know what Pike's initiative
is.

MATT: I think it's plus one, so add that-- Nine.
All right. So 15 to ten?

TALIESIN: 13. Oh, go ahead.

SAM: Oh, 11.

TALIESIN: I don't have my sword working.

MATT: Grog, what did you get?

TRAVIS: Eight.

LAURA: Aww, you and Pike fighting together.

MATT: Top of the round, as you see this figure get
onto the wyvern up top. Bloodied, grabbing on

to the reins, looking over the top, Vex, you're up
first.

LAURA: I'm going to shoot a Bramble Shot at him.

MATT: Okay.

LAURA: 20?

MATT: 20. Hits.

TRAVIS: This man, this man is an elf, right?

LAURA: 16. And then the DC is 16.

MATT: 16 damage and DC of 16. Is it
strength?

LAURA: Yeah.

MATT: No, that's a 15.

LAURA: Oh! Then he's restrained!

MATT: Does he take additional damage from the
Bramble Shot?

LAURA: Yeah, he takes 16 damage.

MATT: 16 total from the shot, okay.

LAURA: 16 damage from the shot, as far as I know.

MATT: It's your normal arrow damage plus whatever
it tells you to roll on that.

LAURA: I get another of my arrow damage?

MATT: It's your arrow damage, and then that on top
of it.

LAURA: What?! I didn't know that! That's so cool!

LIAM: How far is he from us at this point?

MATT: At this point, he's--

LAURA: Is it sneak attack?

MATT: He did not see you, so yes.

SAM: What are you restraining?

LAURA: The thing on top. Hopefully he doesn't have
a hold of the reins, so-- Now I've lost track. 28

damage plus the 16 from the Bramble Shot.

MATT: Gotcha. As you reach out and fire the arrow,
you watch him glance over the wall. His eyes go

wide as the arrow (impact) pierces his chest and
sprouts into 20 to 25 tiny bramble-like vines that

wrap around him and wrap around his body as he
gets pushed back and falls off the back of the

wyvern, out of sight. Make a perception check.

LAURA: Okay. 21?

MATT: Okay. As you see his expression as he falls
back, it jogs your memory a little bit. You do

recognize him. This is Gatekeeper Xanthas. He was
the gatekeeper at the Traverse Junction in the

Emon Alabaster Lyceum, the place that had the
Teleportation Circles, the guy who was always at

the desk waiting for you every time.

LAURA: Oh, that guy! That was annoyed with us
every time we--

MARISHA: He hated us?

MATT: He was annoyed with you.

MARISHA: He hated us. What's his name?

MATT: Xanthas. Gatekeeper Xanthas. You watch him
just get thrown off the back of the wyvern,

slammed past, out of sight.

MARISHA: Hey, wonder why we hated him, we can't
remember his name, Seeker Xanthas.

SAM: Huh, why is he here? Odd.

LAURA: I don't know.

MARISHA: Well, if he's from Emon, and Emon is
currently under Thordak's reign--

LAURA: Yeah, he's probably working for him.

TRAVIS: I think we should trust him.

LAURA: We should definitely trust him.

TALIESIN: He's currently a veggie burrito at the
moment, let's keep him that way.

LAURA: Should I fly towards him?

TALIESIN: I dunno. Why are you asking--?

LAURA: I'm going to fly. I'm going to try get
towards him.

TALIESIN: I'm having my own problem.

MATT: So, at full speed on your broom, broom speed
is what again? It should be on the broom.

LAURA: I don't have a broom paper. I never got a
broom paper because I kind of stole it. It wasn't

given to me.

MATT: I'm sure it does have one. I'll look it up
right now, but you need to keep in mind what

your movement is on your broom.

LAURA: I think it's like 120.

MARISHA: It's, like, exactly what I need to get
there.

How far away is he? It's that much.

MATT: It's like, ten

TRAVIS: It's 40. I'm saying it's 40.

LAURA: No. It's, I'd say, 50.

MATT: Flying speed: 50 feet.

TRAVIS: Don't raise your hand like you got it
right.

LAURA: I did! I said 50, right before he said it.

SAM: Yes, you also said ten, 120, 180 and 50.

TRAVIS: It's playing Rock-Paper-Scissors and
going-- Got it!

MATT: As you rush in on the broom and look over,
the wyvern still has its claws up on the edge of

the walls, (snarls), looking around. You can see
it's taken a few hits, a few arrows sticking out

of it. However, from the explosion that happened,
the two ballistae up there don't appear to be

damaged. But you have no current view of Xanthas.

LAURA: Okay.

MATT: So, that ending your turn, that brings us to
Vax.

LIAM: Jeez. How far away is that little rock right
at the bottom of that platform that you've got Vex

on? How far is that from me?

MATT: That rock? It's about maybe 40 feet?

LIAM: And how high is the wall?

MATT: Up here? Probably about 30 feet tall.

LIAM: Okay. Do I see any wood or anything, a
barrel or anything besides stone sticking out?

MATT: No. Not in that rock, no. It's a piece of
stone that's sticking out.

LIAM: I am going to hold everything until the rest
of the party goes this round.

MATT: Okay. Keyleth?

MARISHA: Okay. Is there anyone else coming at us?

MATT: Currently, no.There are a number of the
wyvern riders and-- going to place these guys over

here so I go and do that-- You do see lizardmen
off to the side that are in the middle of a

struggle. A soldier over there, and a number of
lizardmen that are currently bashing at the front

gates, trying to get through the main door into
the--

MARISHA: Okay. Where did you say where the wyvern
riders were, again? Roughly, in the air?

MATT: You have three that are on the ground right
now that have nets thrown over them or chains

pulled across, holding them down. And there are a
number that are high up in the air right

now, circling, looking for a way to swoop down and
grab somebody. A few have their eyes on Vex.

MARISHA: Are they clustering together?

MATT: They're maybe 40 feet apart right now.

MARISHA: Oh, yeah? They're each 40
feet?

MATT: At the least.

MARISHA: Fuck. Okay, you know what? And how far
away am I from them?

MATT: From the closest one to you? About 80 feet.

MARISHA: Jesus.

TALIESIN: We have to start moving in a direction.

TRAVIS: Towards the door, right? And then try to
get the--

MARISHA: I was going to try and get these guys
out, but okay. How many are busting through the

door? How many lizardmen?

MATT: There are currently six pushed against it.
And there are a few that are moving off in this

direction to go join them.

MARISHA: To bust through. Those are bad guys?

MATT: Yeah. They're currently slamming into the
door and hitting it and trying to find their way through.

MARISHA: Well, let's Fireball them again. That was
fun!

MATT: Okay!

TRAVIS: Will it set the gate on fire?

TALIESIN: Not if you place it right.

MATT: From what you can tell and what you remember,
the gate itself is mostly stone and iron.

MARISHA: So let's blow that shit up.

MATT: All right. So keep track of the charges
you're using. They all fail.

MARISHA: I can see both of them.

TRAVIS: They all fail?

MATT: Yeah, they all fail. Rolling nothing tonight.

MARISHA: Oh, I have another eight. All of them?
All six of them? I'm drunk with power. It's 6d8?

SAM: No, 8d6.

MARISHA: 8d6! (counts)

TALIESIN: Reroll.

MARISHA: Yeah, I get to reroll ones.

SAM: Cocked.

MARISHA: That's also cocked. That one bumped it
from what it was--

SAM: It was a four.

MARISHA: It was a four, okay. So six, ten, 18, 20,
five, 30 again. No, 31!

MATT: 31. (explosion) This one seed of arcane red
energy that shoots forth from the staff slams into

the door, and you watch as they're all thrown
backwards, screaming through the air, the blast

incinerating their bodies and scattering them to
the four winds.

LAURA: Fucking shit, Keyleth!

LIAM: Fire walk with me, Red.

MARISHA: I feel like this thing should come with a
child warning. Oh, jeez.

TRAVIS: Wait, that smoked all of them?

MATT: All of those there, yeah. You see groups of
wyvern riders that are currently fighting off the

guards. Keyleth, do you want to move or are you
staying there?

MARISHA: We were all running towards the door,
right? We're all trying to get in?

MATT: That's up to you.

MARISHA: We're all trying to get in?

TALIESIN: I'm heading that way.

MARISHA: I start heading that way.

MATT: All right.

MARISHA: Why'd you say it so nonchalant?

LAURA: Oh no, oh no!

MARISHA: It's always like it's a bad idea.

MATT: I'm asking if you'd-- Vax stayed there. Up
to you.

MARISHA: Well, he held his turn.

LIAM: Yep. I can't do anything now. I have to wait
until everyone's done.

MATT: Yeah. You are staying here. All right, ends
Keyleth's turn, Percival, what are you doing?

TALIESIN: I'm going to use my action to try and
clear my gun.

MATT: Okay. Tinkering check.

TALIESIN: Tinkering check, so that's nice. It's
18! It's fine!

MATT: All right. You get the gun to function.

TALIESIN: I take six steps forward.

SAM: (sings) I take six steps back.

TALIESIN: And then I use my bonus action...

LIAM, LAURA and SAM: (singing) We go together
because--

ALL: (singing) --opposites attract! And you
know--

MATT: It's not your turn, Scanlan.

SAM: Oh, sorry.

(laughter)

TALIESIN: I'm going to use my bonus action to move
my Hex to one of the wyverns that is currently

under the net.

MATT: Right here? The wyvern or the rider?

TALIESIN: The wyvern. Yeah. It's fighting
everybody too, right?

MATT: Correct. It's thrashing about.

TALIESIN: Okay, it's going to make life easier for
everybody.

MATT: Cool. So that finishes your round then,
Percy. Scanlan, now it's your turn.

SAM: Oh! I'll move forward with the rest of the
gang, if I can. I don't know. I'll Lightning Bolt

the wyvern up there who was holding the elf. Not
knowing what he is or if he's good or bad.

MATT: You're rushing forward on your tiny, gnome
feet, arm out in front, release a bolt of energy

that slams into the front of the edge of the tower
itself. And as you coast it upward, it burns a

dark spot across the stonework before slamming
into the wyvern itself. The wyvern tries to dodge

out of the way. What is the DC on that?

SAM: That would be 19, since I didn't call it.

MATT: That's true.

TRAVIS: (sings) That's true.

MATT: (sings) That's true. (speaking) No, it
does not succeed!

SAM: Okay.

MATT: It has no dex bonus, so it's a straight 15.

SAM: 8d6? Wow! 37!

MATT: (explosion) It hits the wyvern, who's
already taken a few blows. It shrieks back, looks

down, its eyes zeroed in on you, its wings out,
looks like it's about to go into a jumping dive.

Okay.

SAM: Oh, I will also inspire Vax with a
dirty limerick.

LIAM: Give it to me.

SAM: So, this is a random--

There was a young lady named Spruce/ whose
favorite thrill was a goose/ Just the sight of a

thumb/ made her tuchus all numb/ and her bowels
got excited and loose.

TRAVIS: Oh god! (groans in disgust)

TALIESIN: Why? Why?!

TRAVIS: Where did you? Where?! What?!

LIAM: I feel so brave.

(laughter)

SAM: Let that story inspire you, Vax! Don't be
loose like her bowels! Be firm like a mighty oak!

(laughter)

LIAM: I stand a full inch taller now.

MATT: You do. And take your d12 inspiration die.

TALIESIN: This is not what this book was meant
for!

LIAM: It's from the frogurt shop.

(laughter)

MARISHA: His ability to weaponize things--

TALIESIN: I'm going to get a volume for next
Christmas.

MATT: All righty. And with that, ending your turn,
the wyvern up at the top swoops down, right up to

you, Scanlan. Mouth open, stinger out to the
side.

SAM: I'll Cutting Words this one.

MATT: Okay. Well, its bite goes to strike you and
I can almost guarantee you it misses with a 14.

The stinger, however (whoosh).

SAM: Oh wait! No, no. That hits.

TALIESIN: You have a plus two.

SAM: No, I think I only have a plus two if I-- No,
I think it's a straight 14 because I don't wear

anything anymore.

MATT: That's true, you didn't-- All right, so.

LAURA: You took off all your armor?

SAM: Yeah.

LAURA: If you have the armor on, it doesn't have
to be attuned, you still get some--

SAM: I think I'm at 12, plus the armor that I'm
wearing is plus two, so.

MATT: So it's 14. That does hit you exactly,
yeah.

SAM: But I said I was going to Cutting Words it,
which probably should help.

MATT: Go for it. So go ahead and--

SAM: Eight.

MATT: Eight. Okay. The bite goes to clamp down,
and as you--

SAM: Oh! As I look at him, I-- shit! I-- Ah! I
just show him my chest hair. I tuft it out into a

quick little ponytail.

MATT: The wyvern pulls back its head, confused,
and the jaw snaps shut as it rears, its wings out,

strangely. Its tail comes back, angrily. How
many bardic inspiration die have you spent since

your last battle, by the way?

SAM: I only spent one on the last battle. I did a
bunch of reactions last battle, but I only used

one inspiration last battle.

MATT: Right. Cutting Words also uses a bardic
inspiration, I believe--

SAM: Oh, it does? Then this is five.

MATT: I believe... Let me check.

SAM: I used three Cutting Words last time, and one
inspiration.

MATT: Yeah, you have to use your bardic
inspiration dice. So that's five.

SAM: So this is five. And I think I have six
total? No?

MATT: You get as many as your wisdom modifier--
I'm sorry, your charisma modifier.

SAM: That's six. So yeah, I have one more.

MATT: One more. So the stinger comes swooping down
towards you, and that is a nine! It rolled a two.

The tail whips past your head, no impact.

LAURA: You're just so teeny, Scanlan.

SAM: I am.

MATT: Pike's turn! Pike rushing forward as
(panting). Looking around, who here looks pretty

rough, if anybody?

LAURA: Percy.

TALIESIN: I'm a little rough, I could use some
love.

MARISHA: And I could use some love.

TALIESIN: Yeah, either of us. I'm a little lower
than you. But you're--

MARISHA: I'm running with Percy.

TALIESIN: Yeah. We're together.

MARISHA: If she wants to give us a group hug?

MATT: Well, she can only get up to you right now,
Keyleth, at the moment.

MARISHA: Oh.

MATT: Because of her stumpy legs.

MARISHA: Sorry.

TALIESIN: Stumpy legs.

LAURA: They're slender and fabulous! All right?

SAM: Yeah. They're muscular. Svelte.

LIAM: Monster calves.

MATT: Fucking stumpy!

(laughter)

MATT: She's going to use her 3rd-level Cure Wounds
on you, Keyleth.

MARISHA: Aw, thanks, Pike!

MATT: Two eights and a five. This is 16, 21, plus
five. You heal 26 hit points. That was a really

good healing roll for a level three. All righty.
That ends Pike's turn. Grog, you're up.

TRAVIS: Yeah! So, I'll run up, because nobody
fucks with Scanlan when I'm around. So I run up to

the wyvern. Yeah. And I would like to take my axe
and swing it in its stupid face.

MATT: Go for it.

TRAVIS: Reckless Attack. Great Weapon Master.

SAM: Frenzy. Rage.

LAURA: All of it. (growling) All of it!

MATT: He's not frenzied yet.

TRAVIS: 28 minus five is 23.

MATT: That hits.

TRAVIS: Okay.

LAURA: How'd you do that, Grog?!

TRAVIS: Shhh!

SAM: Doing the math?

TRAVIS: 25 plus ten is 35.

MATT: Okay. Second strike, you want to do it? As
you rush and slam the axe into its side, it buries

a good three inches into the chest, and as it's
pulled back, its tail is still recoiling from the

attack on Scanlan. Looks back to you and you see
its attention's geared on you, but it's pretty rough.

TRAVIS: Pretty rough? Yeah! I just want to finish
off this little meat popsicle.

MATT: Okay, go for it.

TRAVIS: Same thing.

MATT: Okay.

TRAVIS: 19 plus a million. 33. No! Minus five.
28.

MATT: 28. As you pull the axe out this time, as
it's rearing back and looking angrily at you, you

chuckle to yourself as you throw the axe up in the
air. It spins once and you catch it, and you jam

it right in the center of its skull. It goes from
rearing angrily to lights out. And it hits the

ground instantaneously, collapsing into a heap as
you wedge the blade out from the center of its

forehead.

TRAVIS: Amazing. Can I use my--

MATT: You still have about 20 feet of movement, by
the way.

TRAVIS: Can I-- Yeah. I'll move towards the group
on the left.

MATT: That side?

TRAVIS: Yeah.

LAURA: Don't you get an attack again if you killed
something?

TRAVIS: Oh! Oh! Yes! Thank you! Very good point!
With my bloodaxe, if I kill a creature, I gain ten

temporary hit points.

MATT: Yeah. So you now have ten temporary hit
points on top of what you had.

TRAVIS: Beautiful. And I don't think I get another
hit. It's only criticals that I--

LAURA: Oh! Okay. Well, still.

TRAVIS: But still, yeah, yeah.

MATT: All right. So that ends your turn, Grog?

TRAVIS: Yeah.

MATT: That's the end of the round.

LIAM: Do I have a go? Do I get to go?

MATT: That's right. You held to wait until
everybody else has a go.

LIAM: Question: can I call out, Vex! Catch!

LAURA: Huh?

LIAM: And softball-pitch Whisper up to her?

MATT: Okay. So you-- go ahead and roll an attack
roll.

LAURA: It just stabs me.

LIAM: Sure. 26.

MATT: 26. Okay. As the dagger whips up past you,
you look down and see the thrown dagger. Do you

want to try and catch it?

LAURA: Sure.

MATT: Okay. Go ahead and make a dexterity check.

LAURA: Okay.

LIAM: This should be pretty good.

LAURA: Where's my thing?

LIAM: This does involve me. Can I use my Luck for
her to re-roll that?

LAURA: 21.

MATT: No, unfortunately. You reach out and catch
the blade and it cuts across your hand a little

bit. Which at that point, if you want to--

LIAM: Bamf!

MATT: As your turn to travel with it, it's the
damage that needs to happen, it's the impact. So

you do take four points of piercing damage, as you
try and catch it from the front of the blade in

your hand, and the speed at which it's thrown is--
you feel the impact--

LAURA: And then I brace the broom to catch him--

MATT: At which point, the blade, all of a sudden,
swirls with dark, shadow energy and your brother

appears at your side.

LIAM: And I would like to use my bonus action to
cast Lay on Hands and give her four hit points.

LAURA: Aww, buddy! (laughs) That's so great.

LIAM: That's it, just four. I get to choose how
many

LAURA: Thanks! I catch him on the broom and hand
him the--

LIAM: And I'll use my movement to scooch my
uncomfortable crotch onto this stick you ride all

over the place. (groans)

MATT: All righty. Your movement is now, on the
broom, reduced to 20 feet, with two people on it.

LIAM: Cool.

LAURA: What are you going to do?

MATT: At which point, you see the wyverns and the
riders start thrashing about. Some of them have

spears that're jamming out from the middle of the
net. You watch as this guy spins around and takes

out three out of the guards that all just collapse
to the ground. One takes a stinger to the face,

another one gets bitten and has its head broken in
the process, while a third one gets a spear to the

front of the chest.

MARISHA: This wyvern asshole did that?

MATT: Over here, yeah. He's hurt, but he's been
taking out a lot of the guards along the way. The

rest of these lizard guards do a full double dash
this way past that guard there, who's giving

chase. These guys all rush up to try and make
their way to the front door again. They can't

really do anything yet to the door, but they can
get there. At this point in time--

SAM: Oh boy.

MATT: Vex, Vax.

LAURA: Yeah.

MATT: From your vantage point, up at the top on
the broom, you hear this distant echoing horn

sound, this (low horn noise).

LAURA: Shit.

MATT: It's echoing through the valley. You glance
over your shoulder and you see a bead of burning

red light making its way in your direction. Wings
flapping. It's closer than you think, and as it

comes closer and closer towards you--

LAURA: Thordak comes and kills us all, right?!

MARISHA: Yeah, this is-- Happy 2016!

MATT: You feel the blood rush from your face as
your immediate instinct is, "Oh god. The Cinder

"King is here." While there are flames involved,
the size is not as immense as you would expect

from Thordak. Instead what you see is a large,
red, winged bird with flames trailing off the

edges of its wings flapping in your direction,
coming over the wall on the outside of the

fortress. On its back you see a humanoid, but much
larger than anyone of your size, armored with dark

black and grayish-silver-trimmed iron armor, a
giant maul in one hand, itself reddish flame-like

hair. This is a fire giant, similar to the ones
you encountered in the City of Brass, riding on

the back of this ember-roc-type creature. As it
comes cruising over the top, you hear it, holding

a horn in its other hand, start shouting out, "The
Cinder King calls for swift execution! I deliver

"his hate with absolute strength." And it swoops
into a dive toward the front side of the gate. At

a full speed at this point, it coasts right
beneath both of you, swinging the hammer in the

air. I need both of you guys to make dexterity
saving throws.

LIAM: Would evasion work for this?

MATT: No. Well, evasion is against any spell.

LIAM: Spell, that's what I thought, I just wanted
to check.

LAURA: Do we get advantage for anything?

MATT: Let me check quick. (laughs) You do not get
advantage for anything.

LAURA: (laughs) Why, though?

MATT: But I admire you checking for any given
possibility.

LAURA: 16 for me.

LIAM: I'm going to use my last Luck.

SAM: You have inspiration.

LIAM: Oh, I do, and I can add it to that save,
right?

SAM: Sure.

LIAM: Good. Oh, then I'm 29. I rolled 11 off of
that. Thanks for the limerick.

MATT: What'd you roll?

LAURA: 16.

MATT: 16? Okay. So you manage to lift up onto the
broom, almost doing a complete handstand to get

out of the way, however, the bottom of it catches
your sister in the side of her leg, causes the

broom to lurch, and begin to lose control of it.
You both manage to hold on to the broom.

LAURA: That's good.

MATT: But you, from the impact of the hammer, do
suffer 16 points of bludgeoning damage. As the

bird, now in a full dive, slams in a giant fiery
crash into the front two gates of the keep.

LIAM: How close was it to us? If it hit us?

MATT: It swooped right underneath you.

LIAM: Can I do an attack of opportunity?

MATT: No, because you were trying to get out of
the way.

LIAM: All right.

MATT: To do that, you would have been fully off
the broom and you would fall.

LIAM: Understand, understand.

MATT: As it (swoosh) into this full dive, slams
into the two front gates which explode into a

cloud of dust, broken rock, masonry, and iron. You
watch as the dust settles briefly. Now the giant

is stepping off of the back of this giant flaming
bird and looks around, clutching its hammer in its hand.

LAURA: Fuck.

(yelling)

SAM: That's large! That's like from a different
set of action figures.

TRAVIS: I think the scale is wrong, Matt, I think
you accidentally put things that are bigger than

us on the map.

LAURA: This is like when I made my Barbies date my
G.I. Joes.

(laughter)

MARISHA: Why is G.I. Joe so much shorter than
Barbie? Damn it!

TALIESIN: Did the lizard man take damage, by the
way?

MATT: Actually yeah, as the dust clears, the
lizard men that were at the gate were all

destroyed in the impact, crushed, their bones
broken, and you can see one arm twitching out of

the center of the rubble. The doors are currently
blown open and off the hinges, there.

LAURA: Fuck.

MATT: All righty, and then--

SAM: We need some sort of miracle here! What we
need is some sort of miracle!

MATT: Fresh off the airplane.

ASHLEY: Hello, everybody!

LIAM: Divine Intervention!

SAM: (singing) We need a hero!

MATT: That is awesome.

ASHLEY: I've lost my voice a little bit, but you
know what? Fuck it! Der-n-der!

MATT: I want a shirt that says that. "Fuck it!
Der-n-der!"

TRAVIS: They'll get that in the store as soon as
possible.

MATT: Indeed. All righty, so, bringing us to the
top. As they both stand there, the flames still

emanating out from the impact, the lizardmen
scattered and broken at the gate, the battle still

waging on in the vicinity, you see as two other
battles over here, the wyvern rider on this wyvern

is stabbed in the head and is killed. The wyvern
is still around, but it takes another guard out

behind it. Over here, this guy continues to fight
and takes out two of the guards, but there is

still one behind that is holding strong. Top of
the round, Vex. What do you want to do, as you

just barely gather control over the broom again?

LAURA: Is that within range of you, to throw
something at it and bamf there, or--?

LIAM: Ish. We'll find out.

LAURA: I'm going to try to fly over. Am I able to
get to the roof above him?

MATT: Over here? Yeah, you can.

LARUA: Okay, I'll go there and land.

MATT: Okay. So you both make your way over,
landing on the roof. There you can see Xanthas is

still bound by the vines, his eyes wide. He's
like, "What are you doing? Release me!"

LAURA: I'm going to ignore him and Hunter's Mark
the giant, and then try to hit him from above.

MATT: Okay, so, getting right up to the edge,
arrow off to the side, go for it.

LAURA: 21 on the first one.

MATT: 21 on the first one? Hits.

LAURA: Yes! And that's Hunter's Mark and sneak
attack, right?

MATT: Technically, he went past you, saw you,
impacted you with him-- or she did, sorry-- It is

well aware where you went and knows that you--
There's no sneak attack. I'm sorry.

LAURA: Damn it! Fine, fine.

MATT: You'd have to hide somewhere to try and get
sneak attack.

LARUA: Oh, and that's a bonus action, right?

MATT: Correct. Which you used to move your
Hunter's Mark.

LAURA: Which I did, yeah, so don't worry about
it.

MATT: Vax, you're up on deck.

LAURA: 18 plus four lightning damage.

MATT: 18 plus four, nice.

LAURA: Oh, and then again! I attack him again!

MATT: Go for it! One arrow--

LAURA: And it definitely hits him! It's, like,
30-something.

MATT: Sure, that hits! Go for it.

LAURA: Argh. 17 plus four lightning damage!

MATT: All righty. Both arrows (impact). One slams
into the armor and sticks into it about three or

four inches, and you can see the giant female fire
giant glances at her shoulder angrily and looks up

over the top, at you.

LAURA: Oh, and I want to back up away. I want to
back away from the--

TRAVIS: I will woo her.

LAURA: So she can't see me no more!

MATT: At the full movement it would've taken you
to get there, with your brother on your back,

that's as far as you can get.

LAURA: Can I crouch? Is that within my movement,
to crouch?

MATT: You're crouching, but you're not hiding. You
do have some cover because of the edge of the

wall. She sees you, but you have a little bit of
cover. Vax, you're up.

LIAM: Is the giant within 60 feet of me?

MATT: The giant may or may not be. You currently
have to get over to the edge to see it.

LIAM: All right, so I'm going to move up to the
edge. I'm going to use my bonus action to cast

Hunter's Mark.

SAM: You can't do that! That's not one of your
spells!

LAURA: We're twins, you guys!

TRAVIS: Oh my god, I'm going to barf.

MATT: That's from being a vengeance paladin?

LIAM: Vengeance paladin, yes. Level up! And then
I'm going to throw Whisper at the back of her head

and hope that it hits.

MATT: All right, go for it.

LIAM: Jeebus. Let's try that again. That is-- I'm
going to use--

LAURA: No, that's a good hit!

LIAM: Mm, yeah. 22.

MATT: 22 hits.

LIAM: All right. Okay. So-- and I'm going to bamf
there.

MATT: Okay. No sneak attack on this.

LIAM: No, I know. And the damage is 12 plus
psychic damage is eight! 20. And then I want to

use my movement, even though I can't disengage--

MATT: Did you roll your Hunter's Mark on that?

LIAM: Oh, no, I-- Thanks, Mattie!

MATT: You just used it!

LIAM: 21. Just one.

MARISHA: Now people are going to scream "Hunter's
Mark!" at you on the internet!

LIAM: I can't wait! I love you internet! I love
you so much! And then, even though I'm not using

disengage, I'm going to use my movement to back
the fuck up into that doorway.

MATT: Okay. As you back up into that doorway, she
swings around, the giant maul arcing in your

direction. A great maul, actually, specifically.
That is 24 to hit.

LIAM: I'll use Uncanny Dodge.

MATT: Okay, in order to take half damage? All
righty, so, that comes to-- oof. This is going to

be fun for you.

LIAM: So much fun.

MATT: All righty, let's get the dice out for this.
Oh, I have the wrong dice. There we go.

LIAM: Guys, I have 105 hit points. I am swole.

MARISHA: Welcome to triple digits!
Congratulations, you joined the rest of us!

MATT: You take 31 bludgeoning damage, halved to
15. It-- whack!-- slams you into the shoulder. You

dodge out of the way and the momentum actually
hits you and the inertia shoves you into the side

of the doorway. You catch yourself.

LIAM: Thank you! (grunting)

MATT: All right, that ends your turn? Keyleth,
you're up.

MARISHA: Okay, I am going to Tidal Wave these
motherfuckers. Yeah! Still have that packed from

the Fire Plane, what's up! So I don't have a-- do
we have a laser pointer in the house?

TALIESIN: It's not in your bag?

MARISHA: You know, it's funny. We bought, like,
ten laser pointers, forever ago.

SAM: You know, it's fine. Matt will just point at
random until he finds the spot that you're looking for.

TALIESIN: Warmer, warmer, colder, colder, warmer.

MARISHA: I had a laser pointer.

LIAM: Here's one, here's one.

MARISHA: Hey, I think this is mine!

TRAVIS: Yeah, sure it is!

LIAM: Use it!

SAM: Tidal Wave!

MARISHA: Yeah, 30 feet long, ten foot wide, ten
foot tall. Everything must make a dexterity save.

MATT: So you're trying to do it this way?

MARISHA: That's exactly what I'm doing.

MATT: All right, so it comes bursting through. All
right, they both need to make a dexterity saving

throw against a DC 19, correct?

LAURA: 19, yes, right?

MARISHA: Yep!

MATT: That is a 17 for the giant, no. And that is
a seven for the roc. So no, they both take 4d8

bludgeoning damage.

MARISHA: And they are knocked prone, and if they
are flamey, then all unprotected flames are

distinguished.

SAM: Extinguished.

MATT: It is the creature's nature--

TALIESIN: They're very distinguished. They have
little fun mustaches.

MARISHA: They're dapper!

MATT: They both fall prone, but the nature of
their flames is natural. It is part of their

actual physicality, so the flames do not get
extinguished.

MARISHA: So they don't take extra water damage? So
4d8?

MATT: No, but the water does slam into the bird.
You see steam rise up as it impacts. The flames

darken a little bit and subside briefly. Both of
them are knocked off their feet into the ground as

you watch the tidal wave curl up, slam into both
of them, and then spill out and spread across the

ground, putting out this fire here, actually.

MARISHA: So 21 damage, and they're knocked prone.
21 damage.

MATT: Yep, great. That finishes your turn,
Keyleth, or do you want to move?

MARISHA: I'll stay where I am, actually.

MATT: Okay. That brings us to the general, as she
stands.

LAURA: Oh god, she's a general!

MATT: At half of her movement there. She,
extremely angry, gets up. (growls) "Oh, that's not

"playing fair!"

MARISHA: You looked like you needed a bath!

MATT: Looks back at a piece of the rubble, grabs
it-- actually is going to use her Flaming Anger,

which is an ability she has. She gets extremely
furious and tenses up. You can see muscles bulging

in her forehead. She grabs a big chunk of the
nearby rubble. You watch as the rubble,

already on fire from the impact, the fiery impact
of the site, begins to heat up. Lobs it at you.

MARISHA: Oh!

MATT: That is a natural one. As it goes whoosh,
and tumbles past--

MARISHA: Can I watch it, be like--

MATT: Yeah, it goes off and actually impacts one
of the wyverns flying through the sky and hits it.

It goes down over the outer wall.

LIAM: Echoing from in the gate, you hear, woo!

MARISHA: You've got a good arm!

MATT: Using her Flaming Anger, however, she
angrily grabs another piece, this one even larger.

Both hands over the head, the great maul hanging
at her side, and throws it at you. This time, that

is a 19 to hit.

MARISHA: Heh, uh, yeah. That hits.

MATT: Okay. You suffer 33 points of bludgeoning
damage from the impact, plus ten points of fire

damage from the heat, as it slams into you, almost
knocking you onto your back. You manage to catch

yourself, but the pieces of it hit you and then
break apart and fall to the ground around you. You

find your whole front side charred from the
impact. With the rest of her movement, is going

to-- let's see, she only has 20 feet. One, two,
three, four, in your direction, picking her great

maul up with her hand and swinging it. Thank you,
boyfriend glasses delivery. Ends the general's

turn. Percy, you're up.

TALIESIN: Okay!

MATT: Scanlan, you're on deck.

MARISHA: She throws rocks!

TALIESIN: Okay, now that this is happening, I've
decided-- I'm already committed to this wyvern and

rider over in the corner that have not ceased to
be a problem. I assume that they have not ceased

to be a problem at this point.

MATT: They're not currently harrying you, no.
They're fighting off guards.

TALIESIN: But they're going to become a problem if
they kill those guards.

MATT: Possibly. If they kill the guards.

TALIESIN: Okay, that'll do! So I'm going to take
three shots at that wyvern. I'm going to start

shooting at the wyvern. So, first attack. He's
held down by a net?

MATT: He is, but two of the guys who were holding
the net have died off, so it's almost negligible

at this point. He can't get the wings going, but
if the net is removed or he manages to get the net

off, it'll be fine.

TALIESIN: All right, I'll take a sharpshooter shot
at him. So, that's-- oh, for the fuck's sake.

That's a gun jam.

LAURA: Oh no!

TALIESIN: Yep, that's another one.

SAM: How many guns you got?

TALIESIN: I've got a lot, but I keep-- Ugh, god,
that hurt. Okay. That really hurt. Took ten points

of psychic damage, because that's funny. I'm
irritated. I'm putting that away and I'm pulling

out Bad News and taking a shot with Bad News at
him because I've got just enough of a round to do

that. Another sharpshooter shot, because I'm
irritated. Come on. Oh, for fuck's sake.

LAURA: Oh no!

TRAVIS: Did you die?

TALIESIN: Yeah, I died. I'm dead.

MATT: In a terrible round for Percy, as you walk
forward in the center, you turn to the side, fire

at the wyvern, get one shot that immediately locks
up. You feel the reeling feedback, psychic

feedback from Animus, course through you. You put
it away, pull out Bad News, take aim. As you fire,

that horrible silent click sound as you pull back.
You hold it away from you, just in time, as the

flame backs up in the butt end of the weapon just
flares outward. You can see, this is going to need

a little work to get it working again.

TALIESIN: Oh yeah, but this is getting stupid. You
know, it's almost worth-- It really does suck.

That legit sucks.

MATT: You want to move, or anything else you want to do
on your turn?

TALIESIN: Oh yeah, no, I am. I'm paying a deadly
price for this shit right now. I'm going to run

toward the-- that's some sort of bastille weapon
over there? Is there a-- No, to your-- yeah, right there.

MATT: Right there? That is a crate and a chest.

TALIESIN: What's the thing in the circle?

MATT: Oh, this right here, you mean? Oh, that is
one of the trebuchets that you had repaired and

one of the ones that isn't damaged yet.

TALIESIN: I'm running toward it.

SAM: Oh yeah, use the battlefield!

MARISHA: Press 'x' to use!

MATT: There you go. It is loaded. It has not been
used. It looks like the men that were currently

fighting the wyvern across the way had loaded it
up and then were assaulted when they threw the net

over. So it currently is ready for use.

TALIESIN: Okay!

MARISHA: Hot.

MATT: It is a difficult thing to aim. That ends
Percy's turn. Scanlan, you're up.

SAM: I'm going to move over to the right, towards
Grog, a bit. Just to get away from everybody else.

And I will-- We need to hit this giant, right?

LAURA: Yeah! Kill it!

SAM: So I will (sings) Bigby's Hand! But I have
very few spell slots left, so it's going to have

to be at level seven.

MATT: Okay. 7th-level Bigby's Hand.

SAM: I will punch him in his giant solar plexus.

MATT: The giant?

SAM: Her! Her giant solar plexus. It's a she.

MATT: Yes it is.

LIAM: It's ten feet above your head.

SAM: Okay. With my hand cone, if that helps.

LIAM: Fuck, that shirt.

MATT: With your hand cone.

LIAM: Hold the hand cone to the shirt.

LAURA: Just, like, right here.

(laughter)

MATT: All righty, so Bigby's Hand appears, goes
into a Clenched Fist. Go ahead and make a spell

attack.

SAM: Oh! Because it's a melee attack-- spell
attack?

MATT: Correct.

SAM: 21.

MATT: 21 hits! And so it's cast at seventh level.

SAM: Yes, it's 8d8.

LAURA: Whoa!

LIAM: So handsome!

SAM: Do you have any d8s over here?

TALIESIN: I do. There's another d8.

MARISHA: Here's some more.

SAM: Okay. Oh wow! That's all of them. That's
eight.

MARISHA: It feels better that way. Ooh! Those are
good rolls!

TALIESIN: Those are very nice-looking d8s.

MATT: Oh, Vax? I also need you to make a
constitution saving roll.

LIAM: Great.

SAM: 40.

MATT: 40! Ooh!

LIAM: For what?

MATT: You have a concentration check for your
Hunter's Mark?

LIAM: Oh, awesome! I love-- I know all about
spells! It's a one.

LAURA: Oh no!

LIAM: But I have Luck, so I'm going to roll again

MATT: Okay. Go ahead.

LIAM: I have Luck! It's within the rules, yeah.
Concentration, straight--

MATT: No-- constitution, yeah.

LIAM: Constitution, straight 16.

MATT: Okay, you maintain concentration, you're
fine. All right, so, as you conjure Bigby's Hand,

you see the purple energy trail off your fingers,
and as your bring your hand back into an uppercut

motion, you watch as the air in front of the
giant, and she begins stomping forward in the

direction of Keyleth and Pike, the energy forms
into this giant purple fist of smoke that just

sucker-punches her right in the gut. She looks
down, confused and angry, at this fist that turns

into a middle finger immediately.

(laughter)

ASHLEY: Yeah!

SAM: You know me well.

MATT: You've moved ten feet that way. You still
have--

SAM: Is anyone within range of my Healing Words?

MATT: You have, looks to be Pike, Keyleth and Grog
all within range.

SAM: Keyleth's hurt, right?

MARISHA: I am hurt.

SAM: Okay. I will give her some Healing Words.

MATT: Second level?

MARISHA: Heal me. With your words.

SAM: I will heal you with my words. So that's 2d4
plus six, right? Wow, awesome. Eight.

(laughter)

MARISHA: All right. I'll take it.

MATT: All righty.

MARISHA: Yeah, 71 hit points.

MATT: There you go. That ends Scanlan's turn. All
right, so. Vex, I need you to make a wisdom saving

throw, if you could?

LAURA: Oh, that asshole that I'm standing next to.
Fucking dick!

ASHLEY: Get him.

LAURA: That's a seven.

MATT: It's a seven. As you, looking off the side,
getting your arrows ready for a second round, you

can hear a couple of whispers off to your side. As
you glance over, you make eye contact with

Xanthas, who has managed to shrug off the bramble
vines around his body. As soon as he finishes

talking, he points a finger towards you. And
you're listening. You snap to attention.

SAM: Oh no.

MATT: And he goes, "Why don't you take a walk off
the edge of that tower right there?"

ASHLEY: No!

SAM: (whispers) Wait a second, you can't do that!

LAURA: But when I'm doing it, I'm also still
intelligent, right?

MATT: You're still intelligent, oh.

TRAVIS: Oh, and you look good doing it. You look
good walking right off that edge.

LAURA: I'm going to walk off of it. I look at him,
I walk off it. Can I pull out my broom as I walk

off the edge and land on the broom? Because I did
what he told me, technically?

MATT: Yeah, so he's a--

ASHLEY: But he didn't say to not use your broom.

MATT: Just double-checking to make sure I could
make him do this.

ALL: (singing) Off the catwalk.

SAM: I don't think you can command someone to hurt
themselves.

MATT: It doesn't say that you can't.

SAM: Really?

LAURA: Really?!

MATT: Each time it takes damage, it gets to retake
the saving throw.

TALIESIN: Once you complete his instructions, you
can do anything you want.

LAURA: No, that's what I mean. I'm going to walk
off the edge and pull out the broom.

MATT: Okay.

LAURA: And just fly.

MATT: Okay. Yeah. So you come up and you go off
the edge. And you have the broom there. All right.

And you're coasting there with your broom.

LAURA: And I give him a thumbs-up. Thanks, Boss!

MATT: And he darts down the stairs into the
building. And as he's rushing off, he's like, "All

"right. Shoot your friends!"

(laughter)

MATT: He shouts it over his shoulder as he goes.

(laughter)

LIAM: That was awesome.

MATT: So now it is Pike's turn.

ASHLEY: Okay. So, getting up to speed here. So
Percy's kind of low?

TRAVIS: Percy!

TALIESIN: Yes, I'm low.

ASHLEY: Okay. I have on my Sprinter's Boots.

MARISHA: You're next to me.

ASHLEY: I'm next to you?

LAURA: And Percy's over by the trebuchet in the
corner.

ASHLEY: Can I make it to the trebuchet in the
corner with my Sprinter's Boots or even without?

MATT: Not without, you couldn't. You could, but it
would take your whole turn.

ASHLEY: Okay, then I will use my Sprinter's
Boots.

MATT: All right.

LIAM: You sound like you're an actual gnome.

LAURA: Yeah, you really do.

MATT: You get over there at the trebuchet.

ASHLEY: Okay. So I'll cast Cure Wounds-- Percy?

LAURA: Taliesin, you guys are talking so loud.

SAM: Controversial spell use over here--
Controversial! It will be addressed on Talks

Machina!

TALIESIN: He's trying to argue that you'll be
taking damage and I'm trying to show him that he's wrong.

LAURA: Oh.

TALIESIN: Sorry.

LAURA: Thank you, Percy.

TALIESIN: You're welcome.

LAURA: Damn you, Scanlan.

SAM: If I were DM-ing--

LIAM: (air horn sounds)

(laughter)

LIAM: Is that okay?

MATT: I'll allow it.

LIAM: It was on them.

MATT: Pike?

ASHLEY: No, because now I can't do it to Scanlan.
Okay, so what are you at?

TALIESIN: I'm at 59.

ASHLEY: Okay. So let's do a 3rd-level Cure
Wounds.

TALIESIN: That'll do.

MATT: Okay. by the way, you used one earlier. So
you have one more 3rd-level spell slot after this.

LAURA: Matt did a 3rd-level spell.

MATT: Before you got here. Just so you know.

ASHLEY: Okay. Maybe I should do-- I'm going to do
a fourth level. Because we need you.

TALIESIN: Okay. I'm not very-- I'm not being very
useful at the moment, but yeah. I'll get back there.

ASHLEY: Well, you're at the trebuchet now. Okay.

MATT: Grog, you're on deck, by the way.

TRAVIS: Can I ask you a question while she's
waiting?

MATT: Sure.

TRAVIS: A prone enemy. Do you get advantage on
them? If they're prone?

MATT: If they are prone, with melee attacks in the
vicinity?

TRAVIS: That's a natural crit, right? No,
that's--

MATT: No, it has advantage if you're within five
feet of it.

TRAVIS: Got it.

ASHLEY: 23.

LAURA: 23, Percy!

TALIESIN: Yay! Thank you!

ASHLEY: And then-- shoot! I was going to do
something before I moved, but I forgot. So now,

for my bonus action, I'm going to create a
beautiful, divine sword, Spiritual Weapon, and put

it up to the belly of the giant.

SAM: Ooh, yeah!

MATT: All right. At what level are you casting
this?

LAURA: (whispers) Cast it really high.

MATT: You've already used your 3rd-level--
4th-level spell, so you have to use your

2nd-level.

ASHLEY: I have four 3rd-levels, so I think I
actually have an extra 3rd-level. Because of the

necklace.

MATT: Okay. You have an extra one, then. But do
keep in mind, you've already cast a 3rd-level

spell this round-- a 4th-level spell, so if you're
doing a bonus action, it can only be 2nd-level or

lower. So it would be at 2nd-level.

ASHLEY: All right.

SAM: Can you use four 3rd-level spells to be one
12th-level spell?

(laughter)

MATT: Sure. Why not?

(laughter)

MARISHA: Because I want to do a
Fire-transport-via-plants-ball.

ASHLEY: Okay, I'll just do it at second.

MATT: That would be messy.

ASHLEY: I'll just do it at second level, then.

MATT: Okay. All right, that ends your turn, Pike?
All right. Grog?

TRAVIS: I'll run up to the bird-fire creature. And
taking advantage of him being on the ground, I

would like to go into a frenzied rage! And I would
like to whale on this piece of shit.

MATT: Go for it.

TRAVIS: At advantage, right?

MATT: Yes.

TRAVIS: Not as a-- I don't have to declare
Reckless?

MATT: Correct.

TRAVIS: Great! I will do Great Weapon Master. That
and minus five is 22?

MATT: 22 hits.

TRAVIS: Nice! Second one is 14, 28 minus-- that is
23?

MATT: Hits.

TRAVIS: Six minus-- 21.

MATT: Hits.

TRAVIS: Nice!

MATT: All three hit.

TRAVIS: All three hit.

LIAM: Get him, Grog.

TRAVIS: 18. Necrotic, four points. Oh god! 21. 31
for the first one.

MATT: Nice.

TRAVIS: 33.

MATT: Okay.

TRAVIS: And the third one. 20, 30.

MATT: 30. All right, that's 64 points of damage in
one round against the creature.

LAURA: What?!

MATT: As you rush in and start whaling on it, you
almost don't notice the proximity of it. The heat

is so hot that you suffer ten points of fire
damage just being that close to it. Your skin

starts to burn and the edges of your beard begins
to singe and curl in.

TRAVIS: Hey, hey! That sucks! Ten points of
burning damage.

MATT: Correct.

TRAVIS: "Burning" damage.

MATT: All right. That ends your turn?

TRAVIS: It does.

MATT: All right. With that, it goes to the large
ember-roc's turn.

TRAVIS: (laughs) Hi!

(laughter)

MATT: All righty. It's going to go ahead and use
an action to attempt its Inferno.

TRAVIS: Its what?

MATT: Its Inferno. It begins to beat its wings
extremely heavily. And as it does, the heated air

and the flames begin to billow up from around it.
I need you to make a dexterity saving throw, Grog.

TRAVIS: Do I get advantage on these when I'm
raging? I do, because I have Danger Sense.

MATT: You do.

TRAVIS: Natural 20.

(cheering, air horn sounds)

MATT: All right. Oh, that's-- good thing, too,
that was six, six, five, four on the d4 roll. That

was nice. All right, so that is 21 points of fire
damage, reduced to half. So ten.

TRAVIS: Okay.

MATT: Ten points of fire damage, again. And you
are not blown back.

TRAVIS: How's the beard doing?

MATT: It's burning a little bit, you're starting
to smell the hair singeing, it's making you angry

even in your-- angrier

TRAVIS: Just like Hagrid's, with the dragon egg?

MATT: A little bit, yeah. You're like, oh god!
However, you do not get pushed back, and as it's

taking off with its wings, as part of the
maneuver, you do get an attack of opportunity at

it, if you want to take it.

ASHLEY: Get him.

TRAVIS: Reckless. 21.

MATT: 40. It doesn't get all way over to them, it
gets--

ASHLEY: Go away.

SAM: Go away.

TRAVIS: It's a 21.

MATT: 21 hits. Go ahead and roll damage. It swoops
in the air, as you smash your axe in the air

towards--

(crash offscreen)

Like that.

(laughter)

MATT: How much damage?

TRAVIS: 23 with one point of necrotic.

MATT: Nice. 23. And you smack it, it shrieks in
the impact, but its wings still (whoosh), it arcs

over and lands on the ground, right behind Pike
and Percy. You guys feel the impact.

TRAVIS: We were just starting to talk! Come on!

MATT: All right. Top of the round now. This fellow
over here, who's now been loading up the ballista,

is going to go ahead and fire it at the bird.

TALIESIN: Yeah!

SAM: It's our guy.

TRAVIS: It's a bird.

MATT: That actually hits.

(cheering)

TRAVIS: Percy!

MATT: That is 12 points of piercing damage.

LAURA: Good job, Percy! Good job!

TALIESIN: I had a whole crew of people. I've got
people.

MARISHA: I got friends.

MATT: All righty. And over here, during this fray,
this guy manages to destroy the last guard,

dispatch him and get the rest of the net off.

LAURA: Oh no.

MATT: So that takes his full turn, but now that is
available over there.

MARISHA: He's available, yo!

MATT: These three guards, one of them dies but in
the process, they do manage to hack down the rest

of the wyverns, the wyvern does die.

LAURA: Yay.

MATT: This wyvern does dispatch the last guard,
however, and manages to take off its chain, which

is currently lodged into the back of the wyvern.
It pulls it forth from the wound with a spray of

blood, and now the wyvern is no longer bound. So
you now have two wyvern riders on the

battlefield.

TRAVIS: Oh, so much fun. Awesome.

MATT: Vex, it's your turn. You have to attack your
friends.

LAURA: I don't get to make a saving throw?

MATT: At the end of your turn, you do.

LAURA: Fuck!

MATT: Actually, Dominate Person, I don't think you
do! It's when you take damage. Let me see. Yeah.

LAURA: Maybe he has to tell me who to attack.

TALIESIN: It's take damage.

LAURA: It's when I take damage?

TALIESIN: You have to take damage, you have to
complete all of your actions.

LAURA: Oh, shit! I should have just fallen off the
fucking roof.

MATT: That was your choice.

TALIESIN: You can't do that now, though.

MATT: Nope. You are on your broom, and you look
down, and the person who's closest to you of your

friends is Grog. And so you're like, "Well, I've
got to attack my friends." Make two shots against him.

LAURA: I'm sorry, Grog.

TRAVIS: I don't believe you.

LAURA: Oh! Natural one!

(laughter)

TRAVIS: It's true!

LAURA: And 20!

TRAVIS: Oh. That's a 20-- Oh. I thought you meant
natural.

LAURA: No, no, no.

MATT: 20 hits. So go ahead and roll damage against
Grog with one arrow. Grog, as you angrily finish

slashing as the ember-roc flies overhead, one
arrow hits the ground next to you. You're like,

"What the hell?" And then you feel the pain right
in the back of the neck as an arrow has embedded

itself about two inches into your meaty goliath
throat.

LAURA: 15 piercing damage.

TRAVIS: Halved to seven?

LAURA: I didn't even Hunter's Mark you, Grog! I'm
sorry!

MATT: Remember, you don't halve the lightning
damage it deals.

LAURA: I don't?

MATT: No. Because the lightning damage is
different beyond the piercing. So how much is--?

LAURA: Oh. It was four lightning damage.

MATT: Okay.

TRAVIS: So, total four-- and then the other
half--?

LAURA: It was 11 piercing damage.

MATT: So you take five plus four, so you take nine
points of damage total from that shot. All right.

LAURA: Sorry.

TRAVIS: That's okay, I'll get you later.

MATT: You're going to stand there for a moment
and--

LAURA: That's it? That's all I do?

MATT: I mean, you can move around if you want to.
You've just got to attack your friends when it

comes to your action.

ASHLEY: How do we get-- we have to--

TRAVIS: Punch yourself in the face!

MARISHA: Yeah.

LAURA: I can't. I don't know to punch myself in
the face.

TRAVIS: I'm going to punch you in the face.

SAM: Vex is working with them! Kill her.

(laughter)

SAM: I knew this day would come.

LAURA: I'm not aware of what I'm doing. I just
think, "I need to kill my friends."

MATT: Yeah, it's an impulse. It's like, "Okay, no
worries."

LAURA: Okay. I'm just going to be up here!
Shooting you guys!

MATT: Okay. That ends Vex's turn. Vax?

LIAM: If I go four down diagonally towards the
giant, I'll be within ten feet, yeah?

MATT: This way?

LIAM: Yeah.

MATT: Three, four, five. You can get within ten
feet, or you can get right up to it if you want to.

LIAM: I don't want to.

MATT: Okay, so you can get within ten feet of
her.

LIAM: Yeah. I am going to use bonus action to cast
Vow of Enmity against her.

MATT: Okay.

MARISHA: That sounds awesome.

LIAM: With the feathers bristling in my armor. And
then I'm going to use the rest of my movement to

back straight back towards the wall, another two
or three squares, I think.

ASHLEY: Dang it, you're so cool!

LIAM: And I'm going to chuck-- well, we're good.
We've got Bigby's Hand right in her private area.

But I'm now going to throw Whisper at her back.

MATT: Okay.

LIAM: And I should have advantage because she's
busy.

MATT: Well, advantage because she's busy--

LAURA: And your vow.

LIAM: Well, and the vow. Either way. It doesn't
stack.

MATT: No, you have advantage on attack rolls
against the creature for one minute.

LIAM: Right.

MATT: Yeah.

LIAM: That or Bigby's.

MATT: Well, Bigby's isn't threatening,
technically. So it's--

LIAM: So 26 to hit.

MATT: That hits.

LIAM: So four. That's the dice before I add
anything. And then-- Does psychic damage get

damage? It's a die. I don't know, I haven't done
it.

LAURA: Doubled? You double all your dice.

LIAM: All your dice.

MATT: Yeah.

LIAM: Okay.

MATT: Was it a critical hit?

LIAM: No. Sorry.

MATT: Yeah, you don't double the dice.

LIAM: Ten, and then. Don't message me, internet.
Ten, 14, 19, 'cause I don't care, 22, 27, 33, 34,

37. Plus Hunter's Mark. 38, plus my plus eight to
the dagger is--

LAURA: Wow.

MATT: Rogues, man.

LIAM: 42.

MATT: 42. Nice.

LIAM: And that's it.

MATT: 42 points of impact. Are you staying back?

LIAM: I'm out of movement, aren't I?

MATT: I mean, you threw Whisper at it.

LIAM: But the bonus action was for the Vow of
Enmity, I believe.

MATT: Right. I'm saying, when you threw Whisper,
you weren't travelling with it.

LIAM: No, no, no.

MATT: Okay, good. Just making sure. That ends your
turn, Vax?

LIAM: Yeah.

MATT: Keyleth, you're up.

MARISHA: Okay. So we have a giant bird, and
another giant bird, and they're all really angry

at us, right?

MATT: It's one giant bird, and then angry
wyverns.

MARISHA: And then tiny, tiny dragons with wings.
Okay. Where's the wyvern?

MATT: That's a wyvern there, and there's a wyvern
over there.

LAURA: There's a wyvern, and there's a wyvern.

MARISHA: (singing) Kill the wyvern, kill the
wyvern!

ALL: (singing) Kill the wyvern!

TALIESIN: We're a little weird tonight.

MARISHA: That happened. Yeah, we kind of are,
aren't we?

TALIESIN: This is a musical episode.

MATT: I will fight you, Sam.

MARISHA: Man, I'm going to go ahead and cast Call
Lightning, I guess?

MATT: Okay!

MARISHA: And I'm going to bring it down on the
wyvern that's fucking shit up next to Percy.

MATT: All righty. So dexterity saving throw to
that wyvern right there?

MARISHA: Yup, that's the daddy.

MATT: That is a six! That is a very failed saving
throw. So that is--

MARISHA: 3d10.

MATT: Correct.

MARISHA: That's not a great roll. Ten points of
lightning damage.

MATT: Ten points of lightning damage to it. So, to
the wyvern, right?

MARISHA: To the wyvern.

MATT: Yeah. So the wyvern rider barely pulls out
of the way as the bolt of lightning from the

slowly conjured storm in the sky strikes out and
slams into the back of the wyvern. You see the

energy arcing through its body before it
dissipates, and the wyvern shakes from the impact,

looks around angrily. The rider pulls the reins
and gets it refocused.

MARISHA: Well, technically, doesn't Call
Lightning: every creature within five feet of that

point must make a dexterity saving throw?

MATT: It is every creature! Which the-- that's a
natural one.

MARISHA: So he also takes the ten points of
damage.

MATT: Yes. So, they both get hit. While he dodges,
the arcing energy actually travels through his

body, grounding himself to the creature. So they
both take damage.

MARISHA: And then I'm going to use my bonus action
to go-- let's go air elemental.

LAURA: Looked like she was smelling her armpit as
she did that.

MARISHA: (sniffs) Pit check is good!

(laughter)

TRAVIS: Kentucky.

MATT: Perfect.

(laughter)

MATT: All righty. You are now an air elemental.
You can move in your elemental form. You haven't

moved yet. So you can still move in your form if
you want.

MARISHA: Can I levitate a little? Get in the air a
little bit?

LAURA: It's fabulous in the air. It's really
good.

MATT: You're ever-so-slightly levitating.

MARISHA: Yeah.

MATT: All right, there you go, Keyleth.

MARISHA: Thanks, bruh.

MATT: All right, now it's General (inaudible)'s
turn.

TRAVIS: General what, did you say her name?

MATT: I didn't. You don't know it.

TRAVIS: Use your consonants, Mercer!

SAM: General Grievous.

MATT: I said too much. No. That would be so
hackneyed.

TALIESIN: General Chaos. General Calamity?

MATT: So, after taking the blow to the chest, is
going to go straight for you, Grog. You're a big

old target who came forward and slammed and has
dealt a crapton of damage.

TRAVIS: Be honest, she is attracted to me as
well.

MATT: Probably. As she turns with the floating
hand and the floating sword, waving it by the

hammer, watches as its ember-roc slams over
towards Percy and Pike. Feels pretty confident,

sees you, a little more of a heartier target.
Points the hammer at you and says, "You will be my

"charge tonight!" and starts walking to you.

LAURA: No, no, no.

ASHLEY: Get away from him. Get away from him!

MATT: See if it recharges. It does not recharge
Flaming Anger, unfortunately, but will take two

great maul attacks against you.

TRAVIS: Okay.

MARISHA: You're my charge. Yeah, boy.

MATT: That is a 21 to hit.

TRAVIS: It hits.

MATT: And a 23 to hit.

TRAVIS: That hits, too.

MATT: All righty. So you take, for the first hit,
40 points of bludgeoning damage, reduced to half

to 20.

TRAVIS: Okay.

MATT: And the second strike, not as good a roll.

TRAVIS: Blinks with frustration.

MATT: I know. 29 points of bludgeoning damage,
reduced to--

TRAVIS: 14?

MATT: 14. So brings the hammer back, right into
your shoulder, and it sends you off your feet. You

catch yourself from the impact of the blow as the
hammer spins around and catches you in the other

side, right at the solar plexus, almost knocking
the wind out of you. You feel your feet skid into

the dry sand and dirt beneath your feet, and a
little smile curls in the corner of your face.

TRAVIS: Ooh, Miss Piggy! That tickled. Can I use
Retaliation to give her what's good for?

MATT: You've already used your reaction this
round.

TRAVIS: Oh, you're right! I did! Damn it!

MATT: Sorry.

TRAVIS: Good call.

MATT: But next turn I'm sure you'll be able to
give her what for. Percival, it's your turn. As

you're standing there, the presence, the heat of
this creature near you, you immediately suffer

four points of fire damage just from being in
the proximity of this entity.

TALIESIN: Okay. I'm cool. I'm going to try and--
Okay, out of curiosity, is that little trebuchet

there, is that more-or-less pointed at the wyvern
right now?

MATT: More or less, you'd probably have to rotate
it a little bit. There is a large crank that has

to be rotated to shift its direction.

TALIESIN: I'm going to-- is it possible that I can
get this shot off in one round?

MATT: It is possible, if you make a strength check
to get it to move to its place right now.

TALIESIN: It's not like I've got a lot of options
here. Like, everything's going pretty iffy as it is.

MATT: So you're ignoring the bird for now and
you're going for the trebuchet against the

wyvern?

TALIESIN: There's honestly not a lot I can do
about the bird right now.

MATT: Okay.

TALIESIN: If I try to run from the bird, is it
within striking distance of me?

MATT: You don't know.

TALIESIN: Okay. Well, hardly matters. All right.
Let's-- 'It Hardly Matters' is the name of the

game. I'm going to see if I can get this-- I guess
I'm going to make a strength check to try and--

MATT: Okay. Go for it.

TALIESIN: Standard strength check?

ASHLEY: Come on.

LAURA: You can do it, Percy!

MARISHA: The adrenaline kicks in! Oh!

TALIESIN: Wait, wait, wait. I'm burning my
Resolve.

MATT: That's saving throws.

TALIESIN: Is it just saving throws? It's not--?

MATT: It's only for saving throws, not for ability
checks.

TALIESIN: Oh! Okay, so I'm not burning that, then.
Then that does not do anything.

MATT: What did you roll?

TALIESIN: I rolled a two. So I got a three.

MATT: Yeah. You go and grab the ratchet and it's
stuck. It begins to shift a little bit. You're not

sure if it's going to line up.

TALIESIN: Then I'm going to jump over that thing
and run into the tent, 'cause I'm goddamn useless

right now.

MATT: Okay. You leap over and make your way inside
the tent.

TALIESIN: Now I'm going to burn an Action Surge.

MATT: As you rush away, the creature reaches out
with one of its claws and rakes towards your back.

LIAM: He's keeping you humble tonight.

MATT: It's going to be a 20 to hit.

TALIESIN: That hits.

MATT: Okay. The claw streaks across your back. You
feel the pain and the sudden rush of adrenaline

hit you at the impact. That's going to be 14
points of slashing damage to your back.

TALIESIN: Okay. I'm 64.

ASHLEY: 64. Okay.

MARISHA: Question.

MATT: Yes?

MARISHA: Are we inside the fort walls?

MATT: You're inside the outer walls. This is the
actual front of the fort itself.

MARISHA: We're inside the outer walls. So the ones
that were trying to go through that door were

trying to get through the inner walls?

MATT: Into the actual fortress itself. Yes.

MARISHA: Okay. So we've gotten through one layer
of wall?

MATT: Correct.

MARISHA: And we're trying to get through the other
layer?

LAURA: Well, they're trying to get through the
wall.

MARISHA: Everyone seems to be. Just clarifying.
Continue.

MATT: Yes. Percy. You said you're taking your
Action Surge?

TALIESIN: I'm going to burn a bonus for a heal, so
I'm going to--

MATT: Second Wind?

TALIESIN: I'm going to burn a Second Wind, my only
Second Wind, and take 16 points back. And then I'm

going to burn my Action Surge to try and fix the
Pepperbox. The Animus box.

MATT: Okay.

TALIESIN: Thankfully the difficulty is not
horrible. Okay. And that's fine! Again. So the

Animus is back in action--

MATT: Okay, as you duck inside, clear your mind
for a second, focus, pull out your tools with your

Action Surge and quickly find the one section of
the barrel that had somehow sprung off and was

loose. You click it back into place, look up, it
spins. Functional, clear and fine.

LIAM: Did he blow on it like an NES cartridge?

MATT and TALIESIN: Yeah!

(laughter)

TALIESIN: Boy! That took a lot. But I'm now hiding
in that tent. I'm definitely hiding in that as far

back into that tent as I could have got.

MATT: That ends your turn.

(laughter)

ASHLEY: Right at the door. Just in case.

MARISHA: It's made of polyester. It's real bad.

MATT: All right, that brings us to Scanlan. You're
up.

SAM: I take a few steps towards Grog, if I can.
Over to my left a little bit, just so I could get

a clear shot-- Sorry, other left. So I get a clear
shot on the fire giant. With Bigby's Hand, I'm

going to do the Sugar Ray Leonard thing where it's
going round and round and round, but before he

punches, I'm going to fire a Lightning Bolt at
it.

MATT: Yes, not a problem. All right. That will--

LIAM: So in love!

MATT: It might singe a bit of the fur on the side
of your skivvies there, Grog, but a bolt of

lightning coasts right past you.

TRAVIS: Skivvies all right. Beard not so much.

MATT: Yeah. Fair enough. This is a dexterity
saving throw. That is a 17 dex save. That does not

make the DC, the giant gets full damage.

SAM: 8d6.

LAURA: Grog's poor ass.

(laughter)

LIAM: Grog, is that an extra mace over there?

MARISHA: Oh, god.

TRAVIS: Kashaw, somewhere, goes "Ah!"

MARISHA: Gets a nosebleed.

SAM: 24.

MATT: 24. Okay, so you release the bolt of
lightning, and then just as the lightning hits the

front of the giant's chest, as it was focusing on
Grog, it looks over and sees where the lightning

bolt came from just as the (whack) across the
chin. Go ahead and roll a--

SAM: So, the initial spell was level seven, but
subsequent actions--

MATT: It maintains the level you cast it.

SAM: Really? So it's another 8d8?

MATT: Yeah, well, you have to roll to hit to see
if you hit it first.

SAM: Okay. Oh yes, roll d20, right, this is a
spell attack. Whiffed.

MARISHA: What'd you get?

SAM: A natural one.

ALL: Oh no!

MATT: You watch as it swings towards the giant,
staring at you, at the last minute glances out and

she sees the fist and ducks back, slow-motion
passes past her chin. As the jaw clenches, the

teeth grinding underneath, you see the jagged
broken tops of the giant teeth as the eyes

(whoosh) right back to you.

SAM: Oh boy. That was less Sugar Ray Leonard and
more just, like, Sugar Ray.

(laughter)

MATT: I'm going to put Bigby's Hand on the other
side now for that.

SAM: (singing) Every morning when I wake up.

(laughter)

ASHLEY: Oh my god.

MATT: I almost want to give you inspiration for
that. Sure. Take back your bardic inspiration for

that, sure.

SAM: Oh! Great!

MATT: Scanlan, you want to stay where you are or
you going to move? You still have ten more feet of

movement if you want it.

SAM: I mean, she's coming for me, so I'll just
back up ten feet.

MATT: All right. There you go, all right.

TALIESIN: Run!

MATT: Now, darting from out from the side here,
Xanthas runs out, looks over the wall, sees you

floating above. "Keep attacking your friends!"

MARISHA: Fucking dick. Can we take him out? He was
always an asshole. Come on.

LAURA: Obviously he's a bad guy. Obviously he's a
bad guy now.

ASHLEY: Would you consider him a friend?

MARISHA: He was always annoyed by us.

LAURA: Oh yeah, do I like him so much now?

MATT: Oh he's great.

LAURA: He's my friend?

MATT: Well, I mean-- You are considered charmed by
him, so yes.

LAURA: He's my friend, cool.

MATT: Yep. Seems like an ally at this point.
Focusing on that, keeping you informed--

MARISHA: But Vex, he never had any redeeming
qualities.

LAURA: I love him, he's my best friend.

MARISHA: This is the first time we're hearing of
this!

LAURA: Xanthas is my best friend forever!

TALIESIN: You don't know him like she does.

MARISHA: (chuckle) They spent a lot of time
together.

MATT: Okay. Is going to look down and points his
finger across and a beam of reddish energy comes

coursing to the ground and explodes right there in
the center of this area, actually right in the

center with the fire elemental, so I need Grog,
Scanlan, and Keyleth to all make dexterity saving

throws.

TRAVIS: Cool!

ASHLEY: This guy's the worst.

TALIESIN: This is technically a magic--

MATT: This is a Fireball.

TRAVIS: (singing) Natural 20.

MARISHA: Ouch, jeez, I rolled a two.

SAM: Disadvantage on ability checks, not saves.

MATT: Correct.

SAM: 11.

MARISHA: Seven.

MATT: Okay, that's full damage to Keyleth and
Scanlan, half damage to Grog, as this is a

5th-level Fireball.

MARISHA: 5th-level Fireball?

MATT: Yeah.

MARISHA: Who did this?

MATT: Little punk over here that was on top and
went down inside and came out the other side.

MARISHA: Wait, is that Xanthas?

MATT: Xanthas, yeah.

TRAVIS: Does that break his--

MATT: It's not concentration, no.

TRAVIS: I know a lot about magic, you guys.

MATT: 33 points of fire damage to Scanlan, 33
points of damage to Keyleth in her elemental form,

and 15 points of fire damage to you, Grog.

TRAVIS: Yay.

MATT: And after firing, he ducks down to the side,
and he doesn't do much 'cause he still has partial

cover while he's behind the top of that wall right
now.

ASHLEY: He sucks!

MARISHA: What a doucher.

LAURA: I like him, you guys, I think he's great.

MATT: That ends his turn. Pike, you're up. At the
beginning of your turn, due to the proximity of

the heat of the bird behind you, the giant
ember-roc, you would take eight points of fire

damage, but it's reduced to four because of your
armor's fire resistance. So that's four points of

fire damage.

ASHLEY: So, I have a quick question.

MATT: Yes.

ASHLEY: So the thing that Percy was trying to do
with the trebuchet. Did it not work because it

wasn't--?

TALIESIN: Because I'm weak.

ASHLEY: You're weak, okay. I want to try and give
it a go.

MATT: Okay. By the way, your sword should have
attacked last round when you summoned it, so go

ahead and make a spell attack with it just because
I totally forgot about that.

ASHLEY: Ugh, what do I roll?

MATT: Just roll a d20 and add your spell attack
modifier. You're up next, Grog.

ASHLEY: Ooh, 28!

MATT: That hits! Go ahead and roll the damage for
your spiritual weapon.

ASHLEY: 2d6?

MATT: That is 1d8 plus five.

ASHLEY: Eight.

MATT: All right, so that's an additional eight
points of damage to the giant. Okay, so,

continuing your turn--

ASHLEY: Okay, so I'm going to try to--

MATT: Winch it? All right, so as you see Percy run
off, you reach up, go ahead and make a strength

check.

ASHLEY: Okay.

LAURA: You got it.

ASHLEY: 12.

MATT: 12? Okay, that's fine.

(cheering)

MATT: You grab it and (grunts) and it takes a
second, but you begin getting the winch to move

around. As it does, does it begins to rotate. How
far are you rotating it? Who are you aiming it

towards?

ASHLEY: I'm going to point it right at the fire
bird.

MATT: Okay. As you pull the winch around, and
there's a little trigger underneath as you get it

in place that's kind of holding it.

ASHLEY: (bink)

MATT: As Pike (bink), the trebuchet, the sudden
momentum of the direct inertia to momentum, the

device spins over top and lobs this large boulder
within this giant sling over and slamming right

towards the face of the ember-roc. That's an 18.
Go ahead and roll 4d12 damage.

SAM: Heavy duty. d12s!

MATT: It's a siege weapon, man.

LAURA: That's 4d12 right there.

MATT: It's meant to destroy walls.

SAM: Wow.

ASHLEY: 27!

MATT: 27 points of bludgeoning damage to the
ember-roc's face as it slams in, the rock breaks

across its skull. And its head rears back from the
impact and it stumbles back a bit, shaking its

head. You can see part of its beak is cracked now
from the impact. Blinking its eyes and shrieking.

MARISHA: Oh, Buddy.

MATT: No, it's trying to kill your friends.

ASHLEY: Wait, aren't we attacking him?

MATT: You can still move if you'd like, and you
have your bonus action to move your sword over if

you'd like.

ASHLEY: Okay, bonus action, is there only one
charge on that thing? Can I keep doing it, or no?

MATT: Every round, it lasts for a minute.

ASHLEY: Okay, I guess for my bonus action I'm
going to cast Shield of Faith on Percy.

MATT: Okay, for the Spiritual Weapon, just so you
know--

LAURA: I'll bet that's concentration.

MATT: Well no, it's not concentration. But you can
choose to use your bonus action to have the sword

attack, or cast a spell and the sword just does
nothing.

ASHLEY: I guess it's not going to help you. I'm
going to use the spiritual weapon.

MATT: Okay, so the bonus action is the sword
toward the giant, or the bird?

ASHLEY: Toward the giant.

MATT: The sword swings out of the way, arcs
through the air, roll another spell attack.

ASHLEY: 16.

MATT: 16 does not hit.

ASHLEY: I'm going to use Guided Strike to add
ten.

MATT: Okay!

ASHLEY: Oh but no, I don't want to, is it too late
to retract that?

MATT: If you want to.

ASHLEY: I wanted to use that for something bigger.

TRAVIS: Something bigger than the fire giant?

LAURA: Something bigger than the spiritual
weapon.

ASHLEY: It's not going to do that much damage.

TALIESIN: Yeah, something that does more damage
than the spiritual weapon.

MATT: Yeah, I mean you don't have to, it's up to
you.

ASHLEY: No, it's okay. I'll wait for something
bigger.

MATT: Okay so the blade arcs over and slams into
the armor of the giant and the giant kind of

shrugs it off. No damage. You just couldn't quite
impact against the creature's flesh. You still can

move if you want to.

ASHLEY: I'm going to stay.

MATT: You're going to stay there?

ASHLEY: Yeah.

MATT: Okay. The trebuchet is expended, by the way,
it would have to be loaded. And to load that

thing, it takes quite a few people. Just so you're
aware it's probably not going to be useful again

in this battle.

There are other weapons in the field.

LIAM: Everybody to the trebuchet.

MARISHA: All hands on deck!

MATT: Heave ho! All right, Pike, that ends your
turn?

ASHLEY: Well, I'll move out a little bit then, I
didn't know it would take so much. Towards the

giant.

MATT: Okay.

ASHLEY: I don't know why!

MATT: That's about as far as you can get there.

ASHLEY: All right!

MATT: Staying in melee range of the creature or do
you want to leave its melee range? It will get a

strike at you if you do. Actually, it will not
because it already stuck at Percy so you can go

there, you're fine. All right, that ends your
turn. Grog, you're up.

TRAVIS: I see the giant eyeing Scanlan and I'm
like: I thought you said I was your charge. You

are not cheating on me this early in our
relationship. And I take both of my attacks at

general hot fire giant's face. Reckless. Great
Weapon Master.

MATT: Go for it.

TRAVIS: 30 minus five is 25!

MATT: Hits.

TRAVIS: 26 minus five is 21?

MATT: Hits.

TRAVIS: Awesome!

34 for the first one, with six points of
necrotic. 41.

MATT: 41 points of damage on that one.

TRAVIS: I rolled a d12 plus 13.

MATT: Oh, a straight 12 on that one? Oh, that's
nasty. All right. You still have your bonus

action.

TRAVIS: I do! I would like to hit him again!

MATT: Okay.

TRAVIS: Not that great. 21.

MATT: That hits.

TRAVIS: 26, with five points of necrotic.

MATT: 26 points of damage.

ASHLEY: Jeez.

MARISHA: Let's take this bird down.

MATT: You did over 100 points of damage in one
round of combat.

ALL: What?!

ASHLEY: That's so much, Grog.

TRAVIS: Look, I am a one-fire-giant kind of guy. I
get very upset about these things.

MATT: So with Bigby's Hand floating on one side
and a glowing sword on the other, the giant

focusing on Scanlan, you get angry and just
release this torrent of strikes. Pulling back,

from the blade you can see dark blood begin to
pour from the plates and the giant is wounded, but

it's grinning. And its attention swings back to
you.

TRAVIS: I told you I was worth a date.

MATT: All right, that ends your turn, Grog?

TRAVIS: Yeah. That's it.

MATT: All right. The bird, who has watched Pike
run past, after being slammed in the face by the

trebuchet, angrily steps forward here. First let's
see if it regenerates that. It does recover its

inferno ability, however, it is going to unleash a
bite and two claw attacks on you. That is a

natural 20 on the bite.

TRAVIS: No, Pike!

MATT: That is a 19 to hit on the first claw
attack.

ASHLEY: No.

MATT: And that is a 23 to hit. So a bite and a
claw attack. The bite is a critical,

unfortunately. So as that one comes to strike you,
that is 19 plus 2d8 fire damage. So you take 30

points of slashing damage.

ASHLEY: Okay.

MATT: Plus ten points of fire damage reduced to
half, so five. Actually, it would have been 20, so

that's ten points of fire damage.

ASHLEY: I have resistance to fire.

MATT: Right, it would have been 20.

TRAVIS: Okay.

LAURA: But then, because he did a melee attack on
you.

ASHLEY: Yeah, he did a melee attack so the
attacker suffers 2d6.

MATT: Is that fire damage?

ASHLEY: Yeah.

MATT: You watch as there's a burst of flame but it
seems to have no affect on the creature.

ASHLEY: Okay.

MATT: This creature is fire by nature.

TRAVIS: Naughty by nature?

MATT: Possibly. All right, and it's going to begin
flanking around you.

LAURA: Damn it.

MATT: After it does its strikes it-- (stomps).
That brings us to the top of the round. Now, this

guy is going to spend his turn loading up and then
taking another shot at the bird there. That one

unfortunately goes wide. It fires and slams into
the ground and a big cloud of dust and rock gets

thrown into the air as the large bolt jettisons
into the floor, wasted shot there. This wyvern

over here is going to fly up.

LAURA: And attack me!

MATT: No, he's going to go after Keyleth, the air
elemental form there.

MARISHA: Bring it.

MATT: This wyvern here is going to rush over to
Scanlan. And these guys are going to rush in and

try and aid Scanlan against this.

MARISHA: Hoping to get hit. Hit me, come on, hit
me!

MATT: So we have the wyvern against you,
Keyleth.

MARISHA: Yeah.

MATT: Bite attack is a two! No, that is not going
to hit.

MARISHA: Negatory.

MATT: The stinger is going to be an 18 to hit.

MARISHA: Oh yeah.

MATT: So you take 11 points of piercing damage.
Are you immune to poison?

MARISHA: Huh? No, I'm immune to poison. Elemental.

MATT: That's what I figured. So you just take 11
points of piercing damage from that strike.

MARISHA: I'm good. I'm good.

MATT: The other wyvern is going to swing down. I
forgot, the wyvern rider is going to take an

attack at you.

SAM: Oh shit.

MATT: I forgot, he's on there too. He swings down
with his giant club. That's going to be a 21 to hit.

MARISHA: Yeah.

MATT: You suffer nine points of bludgeoning damage
from the wyvern rider. You Scanlan, the wyvern is

going to strike at you with both its bite and
its--

SAM: I would like to Cutting Words the first one.

MATT: Okay. You can decide whether or not to
Cutting Words, I'm just giving you this because

you've seen them fight. The bite is painful, the
stinger is where the poison is.

SAM: I'll save it for that one.

MATT: Save it for that one, if you're going to.

SAM: Sure.

MATT: But that was a 23 to hit.

SAM: That hits.

MATT: And the stinger is a 21.

SAM: Well, I Cutting Words that one.

MATT: Okay.

SAM: So I'll sing at it: (singing) I don't want to
die! Get your wings off me baby, get your wings

off me baby. I don't want to die. All around the
world! Only a seven.

MATT: 21 minus seven is 14.

SAM: That's my AC.

MATT: Ooh.

LIAM: You're being punished for using that song.

MATT: Yeah. So you take 11 points of piercing
damage for the bite. And you take 11 points of

piercing damage from the stinger, and I need you
to make a constitution saving throw.

SAM: No problem.

TALIESIN: High.

SAM: High. Constitution?

MATT: Yes.

SAM: 18.

MATT: 18? Okay. You manage to-- you take 12 points
of poison damage.

SAM: In addition to what you already said, 11 and
11? So 12 more.

MATT: Correct. And I need you to make constitution
saving throws for each of those for your

concentration. You have advantage on these.
Because of your Warcaster feat.

SAM: So wait, that's two concentration rolls?

MATT: Yeah, advantage on the-- you make two of
them, yeah.

SAM: 17 plus something.

MATT: Yeah, you're fine. Next one with advantage.

SAM: Natural 20. Two natural 20's!

MATT: All righty, and the wyvern rider is going to
take a swing at you.

SAM: Sure, sure.

MATT: That is a 22.

SAM: Yeah, it hits.

MATT: You take nine points of bludgeoning damage
as it smacks you over the head with a giant club.

ASHLEY: Are you okay!?

MATT: I need you to make another constitution
saving throw with advantage.

LAURA: Oh my god.

MATT: Because you're being hacked like crazy here.

SAM: Another natural 20.

ASHLEY: Shut the fuck up.

SAM: The other one was a three. Three and a 20.

MATT: There you go. Warcaster, man. Warcaster is a
great feat. All right, that ends their turn, it is

now Vex's turn.

LAURA: Yes, can I attack my best buddy?

LIAM: Who is that?

LAURA: Xanthas. He's my best friend.

MATT: It's more of a telepathic thing.

LAURA: Motherfuck!

MATT: You know what he's referring to.

TRAVIS: Have you been writing his name and your
name in your notebook?

LAURA: With hearts around it and everything.

MATT: You are such a lawyer. No, for this you're
going to keep taking shots at Grog.

LAURA: Fine!

TRAVIS: Now, there are lots of people to choose
from. She doesn't have to pick the most handsome.

LAURA: Hey Grog, what's your AC?

TRAVIS: Why, what did you do?

LAURA: Because I got a 26 and a 29.

MATT: Yeah, you get hit. And the first one gets
sneak attack damage because technically you're

working on--

LAURA: You!

LIAM: She just Boromir'd your ass.

MARISHA: Oh no! Not Boromir!

ASHLEY: Oh, are we going to die?

TRAVIS: Nope.

MARISHA: Boromir was my favorite.

ASHLEY: Scanlan, run in the tent.

LAURA: 17.

TRAVIS: What, damage?

LAURA: Piercing damage.

MATT: With the sneak attack?

LAURA: Halved. Huh? Yeah, that's with the sneak
attack.

MATT: Okay, so half of that it puts you at eight
points of piercing damage.

LAURA: And then, oh, four lightning damage.

TRAVIS: So four total.

LAURA: Oh, that's just the first attack! Oh no!
I'm sorry!

TALIESIN: Has no one noticed that she's doing this
yet, by the way? No one has commented that she's

doing this.

TRAVIS: Well, now I'm going to catch on.

LAURA: 20 on the second attack.

MATT: So ten.

LAURA: So ten damage on the second plus three
lightning.

MATT: Okay, so 13.

TRAVIS: 25. I'm keeping track of this.

LAURA: Oh shit.

MATT: Okay.

LAURA: (singing) I'm going to go because we don't
get a break because we're fighting.

LIAM: And stay down!

MATT: Okay Vax, you're up.

LIAM: All right, I want to a little mini curve and
go two squares this way and on the way I want to

throw, as a bonus action, throw my Flametongue
Dagger at my sister.

MATT: Okay.

LIAM: Yeah, so here we go. That hits, that's a 29.
So she takes a total of seven points of damage.

MATT: Okay, go ahead and mark that on her sheet
for her.

LIAM: Okay. Minus seven awesome points. And then I
want to walk up to the back of the giantess and

stab her in the calf.

MATT: Okay.

TALIESIN: She has a small cow?

LIAM: A natural 20.

MATT: Go ahead and roll damage on that.

TALIESIN: Wait, is that with sneak attack?

MATT: Yeah.

TALIESIN: Ooh! What! What?!

SAM: It's going to be like a million points of
damage.

TALIESIN: You're going to carve a Christmas animal
out of her.

LIAM: There are no numbers as high.

MARISHA: Yes. Get it. Get it! Big money, no
whammies!

SAM: This is a fun game.

MARISHA: This is great.

ASHLEY: I love Dungeons & Dragons.

MARISHA: We don't know the damage on the inside
yet, but this is fine.

LIAM: Plus Hunter's Mark. Shit.

MATT: Which is also doubled, technically.

LIAM: Yeah I know. Did I-- yes I did. I forgot
just my straight-up bonus that doesn't get

doubled. That is 64 points of damage.

MATT: How do you want to do this?

(cheering)

TRAVIS: Yeah!

ASHLEY: Kill it!

MARISHA: Kill it!

LIAM: I want to to walk up and jab Whisper into
the back of her calf and then slide it up the back

of her leg, up the ass, up the small of her back
as high as I can reach. Probably around the

tailbone, I don't know.

MATT: Okay, as you jam it into the back of the
calf, the armor plates give way to the impact of

the blow. And she looks over her shoulder and
tries to swing the maul out backwards. You're too

low at this point as she pulls backwards, exposes
further up and you just drive the blade upward. As

you do you catch some sort of heavy vein as blood
begins to just gout out of the wound. And you keep

pushing upward, it won't go much past the thigh at
this point, but she turns around and starts going

unconscious from the rapid blood loss based on the
wounds she's already sustained. She takes her

hammer up to deliver a death blow down upon you
and as she goes to reach for you, her fingers lack

the strength to hold the blade and she tumbles
forward. You pass to the side, sidestepping as her

form slams into the dirt, knocking up dust around
her on the ground.

(air horn)

(laughter)

MATT: Vex, I need you to go ahead and roll a
wisdom saving throw.

LIAM: Because I stabbed you.

LAURA: Roll low, roll low! Oh, I mean roll high!
Roll high! Wisdom saving throw. 15.

MATT: 15 does not make it. However, technically,
and this was my fault before, you do have

advantage because it is a person who is not your
ally. Or they're fighting your allies.

LAURA: That's even worse.

MATT: Yep, so you're still dominated. Sorry.

LIAM: But at least you lost some hit points.

LAURA: Yay...

LIAM: Seven.

LAURA: I saw.

MATT: All right. So that ends Vax's turn, Keyleth,
you're up.

MARISHA: Okay so, I have the wyvern in my face?

MATT: You do, yes. And the wyvern rider.

MARISHA: And the wyvern rider? I'm going to do two
slam attacks.

MATT: To the wyvern or the rider?

MARISHA: What looks worse?

MATT: The wyvern.

MARISHA: The wyvern, then.

MATT: The wyvern rider hasn't really been hurt.

MARISHA: I'm going to take out the wyvern.

MATT: Okay go for it, roll two strikes.

MARISHA: Okay. Okay, what am I adding? Hang on.
Sorry, I'm the worst. Oh, plus five, okay so the

first one is 18.

MATT: 18? Hits.

MARISHA: And the second one is not as good. That's
a 14.

MATT: 14 also hits.

MARISHA: Really?

MATT: They don't have a high armor class.

MARISHA: Aw, so they each take...

MATT: They've got a fair amount of hit points for
their size, but their armor class isn't huge.

MARISHA: Okay cool, so the first one is good. 13
plus five so 18 for the first hit.

MATT: Okay.

MARISHA: And four plus three is seven plus five is
12. 12 for the second.

MATT: Gotcha. All right.

MARISHA: And then I'm going to use a bonus action.
I have never done this before. I'm going to use a

bonus action, as a Circle of the Moon druid, to
use one spell slot to heal 1d8 hit points.

MATT: Okay, go for it.

MARISHA: Ooh, seven! That's good!

MATT: All righty. So, as you slam the wyvern
twice, whack! Whack! You can see it's being

buffeted. The wings are trying to keep up from the
sheer amount of wind that's swirling around it. The

blows are almost knocking the rider off, and he's
spent most of his round trying to hold on to it.

It's looking pretty rough. It's barely keeping
itself up in the air, but it's still standing in

front of you.

MARISHA: Awesome.

MATT: All right. That ends your turn, Keyleth? All
right.

MARISHA: I'm going to keep him locked down.

MATT: Okay. It is not the general's turn, because
the general is currently dead. Percival.

TALIESIN: I'm going to peek out the tent, just one
step. I can see that the wyvern-- I take a look at

the field and I see that--

MARISHA: Sorry, sorry! Sorry, Jesus!

TALIESIN: Okay, so that's happening, but I can see
that we have a problem with Scanlan. So I'm going

to take some shots at the creatures that are
attacking Scanlan. I'm going to attack the wyvern,

not the rider.

MATT: Okay.

TALIESIN: First shot-- actually, you know what? I
haven't tried this yet, and this could be fun. I'm

going to try a piercing shot and see if I can hit
the rider and the wyvern.

MATT: I will say that yes, you can, because they
occupy the same space.

TALIESIN: So, starting with the wyvern, and then--
all right. Come on, don't be an asshole. Eh,

that's not terrible. 19?

MATT: 19 hits. So roll also for the--

TALIESIN: Oh, for the rider? That's 25.

MATT: Also hits, so with a single shot, it shoots
through the neck and actually pierces the shoulder

of the rider at the same time.

LAURA: That's sick.

MATT: Roll damage once, and it'll go for both of
them.

TALEISIN: So that's okay. That's 11 points of
damage and three points of psychic damage.

MATT: Okay, so they both take a total of 14 points
of damage. It hits them both. The rider is looking

really messed up from the impact. It looks like it
hit something on the neck and is now bleeding onto

its chest. It looks a little dazed from the
impact. The wyvern is hurt, wounded, and the other

guards are still stabbing at it with their
weapons. So it's not quite at death's door, but

it's looking pretty--

TALIESIN: I'm going to take another double shot at
the two of them. That's a 26 to hit.

MATT: Hits, all right.

TALIESIN: And then the second one, which jumped,
is 30 to hit.

MATT: Okay, so roll damage and then they both take
the next hit.

TALIESIN: Better. 15 points of normal damage,
three points of psychic damage.

MATT: So 18 total? This time, as the wyvern rears
up from the damage from the first impact, the pain

causing it to put its wings out and puff up, it
goes through the wing and takes out the temple of

the rider. The rider is immediately killed and
falls off the back.

TALIESIN: Which means I still have one shot left.

MATT: The wyvern is now in the process of trying
to get its wings up. It's realized how badly it's

hurt and is going to attempt to flee.

TALIESIN: That's fine. I'm going to take one more
shot. I'm going to do a sharpshooter shot at the

wyvern. I'm also going to, just to be an asshole,
I'm going to do a push shot at him. I'm going to

do a torso push. So that's, double-checking, okay.
That's fucking terrible. God damn it. Again.

MATT: Again? He's going to aim and the same
mechanism-- You're having a reverse Percy day.

Wow! There is balance!

TALIESIN: And another ten points of psychic
damage.

LIAM: This is just balancing for the Thordak
fight. It's all right.

TALIESIN: And I've lost that grit point, because I
burned that grit point on the bird. So, ow! Run

back in the tent. God damn it.

MATT: All right, that finishes Percy's turn.

TALIESIN: And deep into the tent. Like, halfway
into the tent.

MATT: Scanlan, you're up.

SAM: I'm up?

MATT: Just curled up and shaking.

SAM: Okay. My Bigby's Hand is still working,
right?

MATT: Yeah, you didn't break concentration.

SAM: I can move it, how far?

MATT: You can move it--

SAM: Move it up to 60 feet. Is that going to get
back to me in time?

MATT: To you? Yeah. You can get it to anything in
the battlefield.

SAM: I want it to do a 60-foot punch on the wyvern
in front of me.

MATT: Go ahead and roll.

TRAVIS: Hadouken!

SAM: Okay.

TRAVIS: Tiger!

TALIESIN: I did well, and then I jammed again.
I've done, like, 30 points of damage to myself.

SAM: Oh wait, I have to do a spell attack first.

LAURA: I've done more than that to everybody
else.

SAM: No! 15.

MATT: 15 hits. Armor class is low on the wyverns.

SAM: So then, oh, it's a lot. It's already up to
26. Oh. 42.

MATT: Okay. The wyvern begins lifting up in the
air, trying to escape now. It's sitting here,

whipping out. The guards are backing up, afraid to
get too close. You see Scanlan concentrating. As

the wyvern gets about 15 feet off the ground,
Bigby's Hand swoops up, grabs it, and then plants

it right onto the jagged rock behind it, piercing
it--

TRAVIS: You made wyvern juice!

MATT: It weakly goes limp against the bladed
rock.

LAURA: Sick.

MATT: That was your bonus action. You still have
your action and your movement, if you like. The

two guards next to you are like, "We're at your
aid, sir!"

SAM: I might need it. Flank me! We're going into
battle!

TRAVIS: "Flank me." I don't think that means what
you think it means.

SAM: So I'll-- I still have an action, right?

MATT: Action and movement, yeah.

SAM: I should probably heal myself, right? Nah.
I'll run toward the fight. Oh wait, there's a

wyvern right there, isn't there? Ooh, I don't want
them to kill me.

MARISHA: There's also a wyvern on my ass.

SAM: All right, I'll attack the wyvern next to
Marisha's ass. I mean, Keyleth's ass. With another

Lightning Bolt.

MATT: Okay.

SAM: I have one more level three spell.

MATT: All righty, so the wyvern makes a-- Not with
a two, it doesn't. And for the rider. The rider

does get a natural 20, so it does take half
damage.

SAM: Okay. So 8d6. I got it.

LIAM: What's it like looking at this shirt-mare
all night?

MATT: I'm trying not to.

LIAM: Hey, my eyes are up here.

MATT: It's a great exercise in focus.

SAM: 23.

MATT: I hate you so much. With that, the rider
takes the impact of the Lightning Bolt and whips

its head back around angrily. However, the wyvern
beneath it gets blasted by the bolt of lightning

and throws it back. The rider gets just enough
back, and the wyvern falls to the ground,

unconscious and slowly dying.

MARISHA: You got that wyvern on my ass! Thanks,
man!

SAM: And then I use my movement to grab both of
the guards and cower behind them. Close them like

a door in front of me.

MATT: Okay, so you move behind them, guarding you
right there. You now have two bodyguards flanking

you at that moment. All right. It is Xanthas'
turn, now.

LAURA: (groaning) I mean, he's so cool, but I
mean, he sucks a little bit.

MARISHA: He's not that cool.

LAURA: No, I mean, he's really cool, you guys.
He's the coolest.

MATT: He sees the giant fall, but the firebird is
still in combat. There's other wyverns floating

around, some being taken down in the distance from
other guards. It looks like the tide of battle is

shifting, now, at this point. You guys, in helping
out the guys around you, both gave a morale boost

and shifted the tide. You can see, the other
wyverns, the lizardmen, have been for the most

part dispatched within the courtyard around you.
However, Xanthas, looking down and seeing the

circumstance, kind of, "Uh, um, argh!" Releases
his hand. This is going to be against you, Vax.

This is going to be a Chain Lighting.

LIAM: I will use Evasion, of course.

LAURA: That's good, that's good.

MATT: That's a good call on that one. All right.
Chain Lighting's a little bit of a bitch, here.

Let me pull it up. There we go. Sixth level. All
right, so, I need Vax, Grog, and Pike to all make

dexterity saving throws.

LAURA: Roll so high!

TRAVIS: Danger Sense!

SAM: Ashley Johnson!

LAURA: Ashley Jenkins!

ASHLEY: 15.

LIAM: I didn't do too well. I only got 14.

TRAVIS: 17.

MATT: Okay, both of you fail. What did you get?

LIAM: 14.

MATT: All three of you fail.

LIAM: Half damage for me.

TRAVIS: What'd you have to roll to succeed?

ASHLEY: I was just going to take my turn!

MATT: I know! Well, that is 50 points.

TRAVIS: Five zero?!

MATT: Five zero. 50 points of lightning damage to
Pike, Vax, and Grog. It's a 6th-level spell, and

he had a pretty damn high roll, actually.

ASHLEY: I hate him!

MATT: So yeah. You take half that damage.

LAURA: (gasps) You're alive!

ASHLEY: Oh, that's true!

LAURA: You're wearing your armor!

ASHLEY: If you're knocked unconscious by an attack
or spell, a blast of healing flames surrounds you!

You immediately regain five hit points and are
lifted to your feet. All hostile creatures within

15 feet of you must make a dexterity saving
throw.

LAURA: Or take fire damage.

MATT: Or take fire damage, yeah. It doesn't affect
the creature. You guys watch as the lightning

streaks out from the top of the wall. Slams into
the back of Vax, who-- You arc up, your whole body

seizing at the sudden burst of electrical energy,
which then bursts outward into Grog and Pike.

Grog, it hits you and your muscles tense and you
drop the axe for a second. You reach down and push

through the pain and pick it back up. Pike, it
slams into you and you watch as the light shines

up around you, the smoke emanating from underneath
the plate armor. You fall to the ground. There's a

brief moment of silence, and then suddenly, this
bright reddish-orange energy bursts out from

beneath the armor, through the neck, through the
sides of the plate, and you lift up about three or

four feet off the ground before landing back on
the ground, restored with a little bit of health.

This burst of flame arcs out around you.

TRAVIS: Jean Grey! That's amazing!

ASHELY: I growl!

MATT: Xanthas then goes, "Okay!" and darts back
inside.

LAURA: I hate him!

ASHLEY: He's the worst!

MATT: All right, that brings us to Pike.

ASHLEY: Okay! I sound so puny with this voice! I'm
going to try my tried and true pal, Guiding Bolt!

I'm going to Guiding Bolt at fifth level, right in
the belly of the beast.

MATT: So you're going to turn around to this
giant, angry ember-roc and Guiding Bolt it into

the stomach. All righty. Let's get over here for
that assault. At fifth level, you said? All

righty, that would be 8d6 radiant damage if you
hit. You make a ranged spell attack. It is right

up against you in a ranged format, so you're
probably going to have to step back because it is

ranged. Or it's disadvantage to hit. Up to you.

LAURA: Don't take a step back, he'll hit you!

ASHLEY: Maybe he'll fail!

MARISHA: Would he get a strike of opportunity on
her?

MATT: He might. It's your call. Or take
disadvantage on the strike, because it is a ranged

attack.

MARISHA: Wait, wait. Is it the big bird? He might
have reach. It might not be out of his range.

MATT: If you're still within melee with him,
you'll have to step out of melee to not get the

disadvantage. In doing that, he might get an
attack of opportunity on you. It's not just within

five feet, it's getting out of the creature's
ability.

ASHLEY: I'll do the disadvantage.

MATT: Okay, go ahead and roll twice, adding your
spell attack.

MARISHA: Big money, no whammies.

ASHLEY: Adding my spell attack? Okay. So, 14.

MATT: Okay, roll again.

LAURA: No, that was with disadvantage.

ASHLEY: I rolled two at the same time.

MATT: Oh, with disadvantage? That does hit,
actually.

ASHLEY: It does?

MATT: Just barely. It doesn't have a high armor.

ASHLEY: Ooh! Okay, so 8d6? Okay, so how many of
these, (counting). Oh, these were bad rolls. Well,

that's a-- (counting)

SAM: No break tonight, guys.

MATT: Nope, sorry. We've been off for two weeks.

ASHLEY: Do I add anything? It's just those? 22.

MATT: 22 points of radiant damage against it. As
you blast it, this giant flash of divine energy

bursts around it, causing this glittering beacon.
The next attack against it has advantage, period.

You can see the creature itself, its flames are
starting to flicker. It looks angry, and it looks

wounded. That end your turn, Pike? Are you going
to move? Oh, you can bonus action with the sword

toward it and attack it if you want. So go ahead
and make another spell attack.

ASHLEY: Okay. Guh.

LAURA: That hit, because you needed a 14.

ASHLEY: Oh yeah.

MATT: So, 1d8 plus five, if it's higher than what
you last rolled.

ASHLEY: 1d8 plus five.

MATT: Grog, you're up next.

TRAVIS: Yep.

ASHLEY: 11.

MATT: 11? To hit?

ASHLEY: No, 11 damage.

MATT: Oh, damage, sorry. 11 damage to the
creature. So, as the blade arcs past, striking

again, you can see another flash of divine energy.
Technically that would've had advantage, I just

realized, because that's the next attack against
it. So roll again.

ASHLEY: Roll that again?

MATT: Roll the d20 again.

LAURA: Oh, because if you get a critical--

ASHLEY: Ooh, yeah, that hits.

MATT: Okay, so it's fine. I was seeing if it was
going to critical or not.

ASHLEY: So another? Oh, oh, sorry.

MATT: Yeah, because the Guiding Bolt gave
advantage on the next attack, and the next attack

was the sword. So the beacon fades. It is now
Grog's turn.

TRAVIS: Stupid big bird! I run over and I would
like to hit the giant flaming piece of shit.

Reckless, Great Weapon Master. All the lasagna. 31
minus five is 27.

MATT: That hits.

TRAVIS: No, 31 minus five is 26.

LAURA: It doesn't matter, it hits.

MATT: You have to roll a 14 or higher to hit.

TRAVIS: That's good to know. That's a 17.

MATT: 17 hits. That's higher than 14.

TRAVIS: And I'll do all three. 14.

MATT: 14 hits, yeah. So, all three hit.

SAM: Kaboom, kaboom, ka-blow.

TRAVIS: 20, 21, 31. 31.

MATT: 31? All righty.

TRAVIS: Eight, 21, 24, 34.

MATT: All right, 34?

TRAVIS: Yeah. Six, 19, 21, 31.

MATT: Okay.

How do you want to do this?

TRAVIS: I hit it twice with my axe, and with the
third one I pick up Pike and I use her to slice

the bird open! Come on, Pikey-poo!

MATT: Wielding Pike like a two-handed gnome, you
drop the axe on the first two strikes, the

creature stepping backward. You jump up in the air
and, getting about neck-height, you swing Pike

with all your strength. Pike, you feel your jowls
get pulled from the g-forces of the sheer strength

of the arc. What weapon are you using in the
battle?

ASHLEY: Oh, I'm using my Mace of Disruption.

MATT: So as the mace comes through, it slams into
the side of the skull of the ember roc. Your hands

go numb from the impact as the vibration shivers
through your body. You watch as the beak and the

side of the skull crack and cave inward. With a
little (squeak) sound, it just falls over on the

ground.

AHSLEY: Yeah! Grog, it felt like I did it!

TRAVIS: You did do it! Monstah! Give me a growl!

ASHLEY: Arrr! I'm a monstah!

MARISHA: That was the cutest thing!

TRAVIS: I turn around and I look up at Vex and I
say, fucking cut it out!

LAURA: I say, good job! I'm going to hit you in a
minute!

ASHLEY: Oh, that's right, we still have him and
her.

MATT: All right, so we go back to the first round.
The two soldiers that are guarding you are like,

"What would you like, sir? Where are we going?"

SAM: Is anyone out there who wants to kill me?

MARISHA: There's still the guy on the ground.
Right under my face.

SAM: You two go kill that guy, I'll go somewhere
else!

MATT: Okay. They both, using their full--

LIAM: Just killed a pit fiend.

MATT: They get all the way up to it. They don't
have a chance to attack, but they're surrounding

it with their weapons drawn. They're going to
probably brutalize it pretty badly next round. All

right. For the purposes of this round, too, you
hear a sound from up in the hallway, where Xanthas

was. (pained shout) You watch as Xanthas goes
flying out a few feet and lands on his back. You

watch as a small, brown bit of hair races across,
a giant, gleaming Holy Avenger goes across the air--

TRAVIS: Yes! Platinum greatsword!

LAURA: Who was it?! It's Kima?

MATT: It's Kima.

(yelling)

MATT: She says, "Bahamut strike you down, you
knife-eared son of a bitch!" The blade coming down--

SAM: Defenestrated.

(laughter)

MATT: Here we go. That is a 15 to hit. That hits
against his armor class. And a natural 20.

MARISHA: Get it girl.

TRAVIS: End him. End him.

LAURA: Does he need to make a constitution check?

MATT: Oh, he will. It is a concentration spell.
Ooh, double sixes on the first one.

TRAVIS: Don't you wanna shoot me again?

LAURA: I'm pretty sure. No, right now I definitely
want to shoot you again.

TRAVIS: Oh, okay.

MATT: 21 points of damage on the first strike. On
the critical, that is 25. Oof, that's rough. So,

having to make a concentration check on both on
those. The first one is a 15, succeeds on the

first hit. The second one does not!

LAURA: Yes!

MATT: It's half damage, he rolled a ten, he needed
to roll 13 or higher.

MARISHA: That was on the critical, right?

MATT: Yeah, it was on the critical. So the
concentration spell ends, you have control of your

mind again.

LAURA: Tell me it's my turn.

MATT: After that and Kima unloading on him, yes,
it is.

ASHLEY: Yeah, get him.

TRAVIS: How many points of damage did he take?

MATT: From that total round, with the Divine Smite
from her strike, he took 62 points of damage from her.

LAURA: I'm gonna fly right above him and shoot
directly down onto his face.

MATT: Okay.

(laughter)

MATT: You coast over, looking down at him on the
ground. He is prone currently, so you have

disadvantage on the attacks.

LAURA: (triumphant laughter) And Kima's standing
next to him?

MATT: Yeah.

MATT: Disadvantage.

LAURA: Oh, he's prone?

MATT: He's prone.

LAURA: Why do I get disadvantage because he's
prone?

MATT: It's ranged attack, so when things are on
the ground, they're a little harder--

LIAM: If Kima's next to him, as a rogue, does it
cancel out and she gets advantage from her ally?

MATT: You don't get advantage from an ally being
adjacent. You get to sneak attack them if they're

adjacent.

LIAM: Thanks.

MATT: No worries.

SAM: You got this.

LAURA: Psh. Six-- no, 18?

MATT: Hits. His armor class isn't very high. He's
a little mage dude.

LAURA: 18, and the other one definitely hits. 20.

MATT: Yeah, both still hit with disadvantage.

TRAVIS: Nice!

MATT: And you get sneak attack--

LAURA: And I Hunter's Mark him because he's a
fucking dick!

MATT: All right. You do get sneak attack on the
first hit because Kima is adjacent to him.

LAURA: Well, all right. 18. Where's my dice? 28 on
the first hit!

MATT: 28 on the first hit, nice.

ASHLEY: He made a mistake.

LAURA: 13.

TRAVIS: He made a mistake.

LAURA: 17 on the second hit.

MATT: 17 on the second hit?

LAURA: Yeah.

MATT: How do you want to do this?

(cheering)

MARISHA: He was always an asshole! Always.

LAURA: That's right. I'm gonna say, I always
thought you were a dick back in Emon. Don't fuck

with me! Then I shoot him straight through the
face.

MATT: As he's on the ground--

TALIESIN: His heart breaks before the arrow hits.

(laughter)

MARISHA: He always had a crush on you!

(laughter)

MATT: He puts his finger up as you nock the first
arrow, and he goes "Wait, I--" and the first arrow

hits him in the shoulder. He's like "No, (nervous
laughter) we can--" and he gets that far into the

second sentence before the arrow (impact) through
his face. (whimpers, trails off) And the finger

goes limp as his eyes go a little dead in the
face.

LIAM: Slightly sad.

LAURA: I turn back round and I go, sorry, Grog.

MATT: Kima looks up and you and goes, (frustrated
noise) "He was mine!"

LAURA: No, Kima. He was mine.

(laughter)

MATT: She takes the blade and (impact) stabs him
anyway.

(laughter)

MATT: You see some of the wyverns, the few
surviving now, are starting to scatter and head

back towards Emon. It looks like the ranks have
broken and the tide has definitely turned at this

point. As you all begin to gather yourselves, the
last lizard man on the ground over there is just

being repeatedly stabbed by the guards until it's
no longer moving, and bludgeoned by the air

elemental that's lording over it. You begin to
gather yourselves to consider the next course of

action. We're going to take a quick bathroom
break--

LAURA: At ten o'clock, a bathroom break?

MARISHA: Quick bathroom break.

SAM: We need a pause.

MATT: There's a little more in store here. We'll
be back here in a minute guys, we'll see you in a sec.

[break]

MATT: Hello, everyone, and welcome back. We have
returned from our break. Real fast, we had two

winners. We had one winner from last week since we
had no episode, so we did two this time in the

chat. The winners are Super Gimpo Man, who won a
flamebox elder hero vault from Wyrmwood. And we

have a second winner, is Southern Dragon 22, won a
purple heart dice box.

SAM: That's the one that I have.

MATT: It's that color right there, for one of the
deckboxes. So Super Gimpo Man and Southern Dragon

22 congratulations, well done.

MARISHA: It does grant you cock lightning, that's
true. It's like a 5th-level spell.

MATT: All right, guys, so, the dust of the battle
settling, the plumes of smoke slowly beginning to

dissipate as the fires burn out from the previous
struggle. The remaining living soldiers begin to

gather their dead and wounded. And you guys begin
to reconvene as allies towards the broken front

doors to the outside of Fort Daxio.

LAURA: I search Xanthas' body.

MATT: You search his body?

LAURA: Yeah.

MATT: All righty.

SAM: I'll search the giant.

MARISHA: Can I scavenge from the ember-roc?

MATT: Sure, if you want to.

TRAVIS: Could I ask Pike to heal me a little bit,
please?

ASHLEY: Oh, yeah. Where are you at?

TRAVIS: Oh, you know, like a two-digit number.

LIAM: What?

MATT: How many points do you have, Grog?

TRAVIS: 25.

MATT: 25 hitpoints on Grog.

SAM: I got nine.

LAURA: Oh no, he asked. Does that mean that
something's going to happen right now?

MATT: I don't know.

LAURA: We need to sleep, let's all sleep. Let's go
to sleep right now.

MATT: Right now? It doesn't work that way. All
right, so as you guys are looting, the giant has

giant black iron plate mail on, which is very
heavy, it is-- it's going to take a few hands to

pull off.

TRAVIS: Not if we tagteam.

MATT: As well as her great maul, which is also
very large.

LIAM: Gauche.

MATT: And about 812 gold pieces.

LIAM: I'll take those.

TRAVIS: Like so big that I couldn't even wield
it?

MATT: You could hold it, but you couldn't wield
it, yes. Sizewise, it's maybe about three feet

taller than you, from head to pommel. And the
weight of it is unwieldy for your size.

TRAVIS: 30 points.

ASHLEY: I heal him 30 points with my last...

MATT: Okay. You find on Xanthas-- you find 1,098
gold pieces.

SAM: I'll take that.

MATT: You find a potion of superior healing that
he didn't have a chance to use. And there appears

to be a wand that is shattered.

MARISHA: Take it.

LAURA: I'm taking it, of course I'm taking it.

MATT: It looks like it has broken, and there's a
little bit of a burn mark on the wood the wand was

crafted from.

LAURA: Okay. I inspect it. It doesn't do anything
when I inspect it.

MATT: Okay. Make an arcana check.

LAURA: Okay.

LIAM: Take a look, Hermione.

LAURA: But I'm doing it because Grog told me to,
and he's brilliant.

TRAVIS: I know.

LAURA: 11.

LIAM: Check out the brain on Vex.

MATT: Definitely busted. And it was once a wand.

LAURA: Cool cool cool.

TRAVIS: Are you sure it's not a twig?

MATT: I hate you so much, Sam. Nothing, continue.

TRAVIS: He never saw the bottom of it. Until now.

MATT: No, not until now.

SAM: Oh, is that true?

MATT: Yeah. I've been focused on... other things.

SAM: I printed some extras for you, Matt. Like,
sign them for fans... it's high derp.

MATT: I blame you, internet. You're partially
responsible for this. Oh boy. Some things never die.

LIAM: That's a legacy.

MATT: It is a legacy, it's true. It's pretty
great. One of the downsides of having hundreds of

hours of video of you on the internet is those are
everywhere.

LIAM: We've all made awful faces and said stupid
things.

MATT: It's wonderful. I'm glad you guys have come
to enjoy it.

MARISHA: They've all seen us pick our noses.

MATT: Probably, yeah. Somebody do a supercut,
please.

TALIESIN: Don't.

MATT: Too late, guys.

TALIESIN: You're a horrible person. I have two
guns to fix at some point.

MATT: Okay, go ahead and make some repair checks
while you're working on that.

TALIESIN: Okay. Do I get a bonus if I'm not in the
middle of combat, or is that still the same

tinkering check?

MATT: Same tinkering check.

TALIESIN: So number one, yes! That goes well,
that's a 17. That was on Animus. And then Bad

News, which is slightly easier to fix, does not
fix.

SAM: Bad News.

TALIESIN: Bad News is broken.

MATT: Yeah. Bad News, you're going to need
supplies to fix.

TALIESIN: Yeah, I'm going to need to sit there
with some money and spend some time with it.

MATT: Okay.

MARISHA: Hey, Mom? I cleaned the dishes.

ASHLEY: Did we loot the giant?

MATT: Yes, the giant was looted. You're trying to
carve something out of the ember-roc?

MARISHA: Yes I am. Nature check?

MATT: Go ahead and make a nature check, with
advantage.

MARISHA: Gil, don't fuck me, Gil. Gil, god damn
it, Gil.

(laughter)

MARISHA: But with advantage, it is a 25.

MATT: Okay. It's hard to pull a lot from the body,
because the nature of the ember-roc, as it passes

away, parts of it begin to turn to ash, but you do
manage to pull from a portion of its torso what's

called ember-roc oil. It is a flammable liquid
that burns like a napalm.

MARISHA: Like napalm?

MATT: You get about roughly a gallon of it to
extract. Because the rest of it's ruined for it.

It's worth about 750 gold, if you were to try and
sell it. It's very volatile, depending on how you

store it, just so you're aware.

SAM: Cool, man.

LIAM: Oh man, drop some Mentos in there.

MARISHA: Percy, do you have any vials left?

TALIESIN: In theory, I should have some vials
left.

SAM: Can it hold a gallon?

TALIESIN: Not a gallon's worth.

MARISHA: Not a gallon, but I just want a couple,
and I hand a couple to Vex and Vax. Just a couple

vials of the--

MATT: So you guys have a vial of ember-roc oil.

MARISHA: Yep, nitroglycerin.

MATT: Kind of. In a way.

MARISHA: You can either make a really great
molotov cocktail, or maybe some flaming arrows.

MATT: You're not certain. The book that you have
that details some of these creatures, the thing

that you had found earlier in the campaign, it
doesn't tell you details of how the actual liquid

is triggered, it just says that it is fiery and
burns very hot.

TRAVIS: It's like the goo from Ghostbusters 2.
"Talk angry."

LAURA: "Talk sweet."

MATT: Sure. As you guys are taking this moment to
figure this out, eventually you hear what sounds

like the crumbling of stone, and a few rocks
tumble out of the broken open entrance to the

fortress, and you watch as a couple of guards
begin to come out, their eyes wide. They look like

they were in armor and ready to make the final
stand. Among them, you see General Elle Gorgofon,

the female head of this particular regiment of
Fort Daxio, and Kima.

MARISHA: But what about Allura?

MATT: You see them all emerge from it. Elle looks
out to them. "So, you've done well. Little late,

"but thank you for the assist. We'll begin to
gather our dead." She walks forward and gives you

all a nod as she puts her helmet back on. Puts her
blade aside and begins helping their soldiers

begin to gather the dead in a pile. Kima steps up.
You can see her teeth are clenched, and there's

still a shaking of rage in her fists, and what
looks to be streaks of dried tears across her

cheek. "Xanthas betrayed us all. He arrived alone,
bloodied, asked for aid and protection. Since

"Allura recognized him, we let him in. Stayed here
for a short time, saying how bad things had become

"in Emon, and spoke with Allura alone. Something
sensitive. We found her ten minutes later. Come

"with me."

TRAVIS: Are you serious?

MATT: She steps over the stone and leads you
inside of the fortress. She turns the corner,

stops, staring into the room. As you guys
approach, motions for you to follow her. You walk

up to one of the small meeting chambers, the one
that you met Elle with when you first arrived

here. And as you begin to approach, Kima turns
back and says, "It's okay. Friends are here." And

you walk in and you see Allura sitting really
scared in a corner in her robes, sitting in a

chair with her knees pulled to her chest. Her eyes
widen as she sees you all, and she gets up from

her chair and runs over, and the person who's probably
the first to walk in there would probably be

Keyleth, at this point, and just wraps her arms
around you and just holds you for a second and

shakes.

MARISHA: Are you okay? What happened? We thought
you were dead for a second.

MATT: She backs away. (distressed sounds)

MARISHA: Oh, fuck. Oh, fuck. What's your name?
What's your name? She's been Feebleminded. I turn

to Kima. Was it Feeblemind?

MATT: "I-- I don't know what that is, I don't--
Can you help her?"

MARISHA: Yes. It's a restoration spell.

ASHLEY: Yeah. I'm going to cast a Greater
Restoration on her. I have it. Can I-- well, I

don't have any 5th-level left yet-- wow. I don't
have any 5th-level left, but I have a seventh. Can I

cast it at a seventh?

MATT: You do have a seventh.

ASHLEY: Yeah, can I cast it at that?

MATT: Oh, you can definitely cast it at a higher
level. It doesn't affect it, but you can.

SAM: No, no, it doesn't affect the power of the
spell. It doesn't make it a more powerful spell.

ASHLEY: This is so stressful.

MATT: It's all good. So as you approach-- Kima, as
you begin to walk forward, your hands begin to

glow as you reach out, your holy symbol beginning
to burn with a bright whitish-orange color that

mingles with the red and gold of the armor across
your chest. As the glow sparks in your fingers,

she goes (gasps).

ASHLEY: It's okay. It's okay. I'm going to help
you.

MARISHA: I try and calm her as best as I can to
help Pike. Any assistance I can provide.

MATT: She reaches forward, slowly touches and
grabs your hand, and as it does, you watch as the

light transfers from your hands and gauntlets into
her arms and upper sleeves. She winces from it,

but you keep holding her tight, and as it passes
up through, reaches her mind, her face, the glow

passes through and lifts off her, like this gentle
steam that lifts off her. Eyes roll back for a

second and close.

"You are a godsend, my dear."

ASHLEY: Oh, I grab her and hug her.

MATT: She pulls you in for a big hug and lifts you
up off the ground for a second before-- "You're

"heavy now." Puts you back down.

ASHLEY: I just have so much armor on.

MATT: "That you do, that you do." As she pulls
back, she looks at you all, and immediately, Grog

and Vex, you feel yourselves pushed apart, as Kima
rushes up and just grabs her around the side and

says, "Don't do that again!" Holds her for a
second. Allura just rubs her head and says, "I'm

"sorry. I should have been careful. We needed
allies, I didn't know--" And Kima says, "You shut

"up," and she reaches up and gives her a kiss. She
takes her and holds her to her chest. Allura holds

her, and you hear Kima quietly sobbing for a
moment, and she goes, "I-- well. It seems that

"things have moved a bit quicker in your absence. I
think it's time to find what we have at our

"disposal and do what we can to finish this before
it comes on us."

LAURA: Did you receive any word back from the
armies?

MATT: "They're about a day south of Emon. Syngorn
has returned. Mikael is leading them northward. I

"haven't checked in. I'm sorry, I wanted-- I should
have let you know. I couldn't, I didn't--"

MARISHA: Allura, I'm sorry. We should have been
those allies, here by your side, and we weren't,

and I'm sorry.

MATT: "It seems you found what you went for. Let's
hope it makes the difference."

MARISHA: Yes. It seems it already has.

LAURA: That's true.

TALIESIN: We have something else. Where's the
body?

SAM: What body?

TALIESIN: We can interrogate him.

LAURA: Xanthas?

TRAVIS: Oh yeah, we can!

MARISHA: I believe he's still on the wall.

LAURA: Get that fucker!

TALIESIN: Just because he's dead doesn't mean he
doesn't have to talk to us now.

TRAVIS: I'll go get him. I'll go get him. I go up
and find the corpse of shitbag and bring it back.

MATT: At which point, Kima pushes away from
Allura, her head still down. She sniffles back

tears, looks up, punches her in the shoulder.
Allura bumps back and rubs her shoulder. "I know."

"You know." Kima turns around and walks out of the
room in a little bit of a huff, her lower lip

quivering. Allura now smiles for the first time
since you came in. "All right. If you can, do your thing."

ASHLEY: Okay.

TRAVIS: Should I put him on the ground or just
hold him? I'll hold him up.

MATT: So you bring back, dragging this bloody
body, leaving this trail through the Fort. There's

bits of rock and rubble around, and you're like,
"Oops!" Drag him over them as you go.

TRAVIS: Whoops, sorry, ooh, that's pouring out.

MATT: All right. So that is a 3rd-level spell.

ASHLEY: Because of the necklace, I have one
3rd-level spell left. Because I've used three.

MATT: Okay. So this would be the one. If you had
it prepared, it has to be prepared. All righty.

Great.

SAM: What are we asking this guy?

TRAVIS: How many questions do we get?

LAURA: We get three questions.

SAM: What are we asking?

MATT: Can ask the corpse up to five questions.

LAURA: Why are you such a dick?

MARISHA: You were always mean to us. Why?

TRAVIS: You've been working with Thordak. What are
his weaknesses?

MARISHA: What did he want?

TALIESIN: The defenses of the city.

MATT: Just be aware of the rule, too. The corpse
is under no compulsion to offer a truthful answer

if you are hostile to it and it recognizes you as
an enemy.

ASHLEY: So maybe just face it towards me?

LAURA: Yeah, 'cause you're nice.

MATT: You can also discern lies, if you get a high
enough insight. This is still-- this isn't free

answers. This is still an interrogation.

TRAVIS: What if we put a bag over his head?

LAURA: I don't know.

SAM: Who would he trust?

LIAM: Lizard-skinned man.

LAURA: Oh yeah. Could you make yourself look like
a lizardman?

SAM: Yeah, sure, or I could make someone who we
know talk--

LIAM: But you're so good with words.

SAM: No, but I mean, I'm saying-- who would he
trust? I can make that person, and I can make that

person talk.

MATT: Well, technically, it's Pike asking the
questions, since it is her spell, so whatever

questions you ask have to go through her.

MARISHA: We have the Hat of Disguise. Can you give
her the Hat of Disguise?

TRAVIS: What if you made yourself one of the
lizardpeople, and then you had her down and you

were using her to get info for Thordak?

TALIESIN: I think he'll know that he's dead.

MARISHA: You think he won't care?

MATT: Yeah.

TALIESIN: So the trickery, I think it may be-- I
would say it's probably either an appeal or a

threat.

LAURA: Let's try the appeal.

SAM: Let's build a game show set. He'll think he's
on a Japanese game show.

(laughter)

MARISHA: Wipeout!

LAURA: Let's try to make him like us.

ASHLEY: Let's try to make him like us. Like we
were a friend, we're sad that he died.

LAURA: Yeah, we'll all back out of view.
Especially me.

ASHLEY: God, okay.

SAM: Do we know anything about his family? Because
we could always play bad cop, too, and threaten

his family.

MATT: You guys have not engaged him beyond a brief
fuck-you-type conversation in and out.

TALIESIN: I can threaten him. I can threaten him.
I will threaten him if necessary, but we can try

the carrot before the stick.

SAM: All right, so what are we asking? What are
his weaknesses? Has Thordak had a visit from

Greenie? Raishan?

TALIESIN: How did they find out where we were?

TRAVIS: Are there secret entrances into Emon?

LAURA: Yeah, that's a good one!

TALIESIN: What are the strengths of their army?
What are their weaknesses?

MARISHA: What does Thordak ultimately want?

LAURA: Who does Thordak trust the most?

TALIESIN: Who in the city, especially.

LAURA: Yeah, who in the city does Thordak trust?

LIAM: Do we want to ask him what he knows about
the Clasp's activity?

SAM: We're up to 20 questions, now?

LAURA: Four, we've got four!

TALIESIN: Also, other questions may lead to other
questions.

LAURA: Okay, so that's good. Let's start with
this, and then we'll see where it goes.

MATT: All right, what are you doing? Casting the
spell?

ASHLEY: Yeah.

MATT: All right, so as Grog throws it on the
ground, skids for a second, you begin casting the

spell. As you're casting it, Kima walks up and
kicks it one more time and then walks away. You

finish-- it takes you-- it's a very quick action,
but as you finish, you watch as the air itself

seems to form this mist around the corpse, and the
mist absorbs into the body. All of a sudden the

jaw opens. Air fills its chest and the head leans
up, the eyes still staring off into the distance,

but it seems to be addressing you, Pike.

ASHLEY: Okay, so I'm going to walk over to him,
and I'm going to put my hand on his face, and I'm

going to say, my friend, I am so sorry that you've
fallen in battle, but I had to bring you back to

ask you some questions. I just got so nervous.

(laughter)

LIAM: Where's the beef?

ASHLEY: So we know that you've been working with
Thordak and I have some questions. Has Thordak had

a visit from Raishan?

MATT: Make a persuasion check.

SAM: (quietly) Persuasion check!

ASHLEY: 22.

MATT: The head creaks a little bit as it tilts
upward. You can hear the unnatural puppeteering of

the body trying to speak, not the spirit but the
body's memory. "He's had no visits. He speaks

"through his crystals."

MARISHA: Okay, we knew that.

TALIESIN: (quietly) How did they find out where we
were? How did he find Fort Daxio?

MARISHA: Well he speaks to his crystals.

TALIESIN: But we don't know, like--

MARISHA: Well, some dickhead ratted us out.

TALIESIN: Who?

ASHLEY: I just have a couple, or four more
questions for you?

(laughter)

ASHLEY: And then I will let you go in peace. How
did you know that we were at Fort Daxio?

MATT: "Naught but two days before, maybe less, a
scouting party left Emon. Saw activity at the

"fort. And when they checked, they saw you. And you
were marked."

TRAVIS: Can you insight check a dead person?

LAURA: Yeah, can we insight check him?

MATT: Sure.

MARISHA: Vox Machina, I'm assuming, considering
you left our--

MATT: You get the sense that might be what he's
referring to, and you get the sense that long ago

when you guys were high up on the broom looking
out towards Emon, you missed seeing something that

was possibly--

LAURA: I remember that, we didn't roll high enough
on perception. I rolled a 24 on insight.

MATT: Okay. So far none of the questions seem to
be probing too deeply and he seems to be on the

level with Pike.

ASHLEY: Do you know of any secret entrances into
Emon?

MATT: "Secrets. Just the Traverse Junction."

SAM: Traverse Junction. We've heard of that
before.

MARISHA: Yeah, we have.

MATT: That's where he used to work. That's the--

TRAVIS: The teleportation circle.

MATT: "Or the tunnels beneath. But those are where
the Clasp reign dominion."

TRAVIS: Two more.

TALIESIN: Who within the city still fights-- who
within the city still fights against the dragon?

Who will be our allies, who can we trust?

LAURA: That's a whole lot. Who within the city
fights against Thordak?

ASHLEY: Are we looking for allies, like who
doesn't--

SAM: Well we want to know who Thordak trusts and
we want to know who Thordak doesn't--

LAURA: We've only got two questions left.

TALIESIN: Thordak doesn't trust anybody.

MARISHA: Well, the Clasp is clearly working for
him now.

LAURA: What?

LAURA and TALIESIN: No.

MARISHA: Well he said the tunnels the Clasp
"reigns dominion," so--

TALIESIN: That's where they-- that's theirs.

LIAM: But they might still be resisting. I mean
the question-- asking this shithead who still

resists within the city will answer a lot of
questions.

LAURA: Yeah. Yeah yeah yeah. Ask that.

ASHLEY: Who still in the city resists-- I have one
job! I feel so--

(laughter)

LIAM: Can you understand a word coming out of my
mouth?

ASHLEY: Computer! Who still in the city resists
Thordak?

MATT: "There are a few groups. But beneath the
city the resistance builds. We've tried to smoke

"them out but they keep moving."

LAURA: (whispers) So the Clasp is still
resisting.

LIAM: Could be.

LAURA: Can I insight check him?

MATT: Sure.

LAURA: 18.

MATT: Kind of hard to read for a dead body, but
seems to be legit.

LAURA: On the up and up?

ASHLEY: We have one more question, but is there
anything else?

SAM: Anything else? Allies?

LAURA: Like, who does Thordak trust the most?

TALIESIN: Or what does Thordak fear?

TRAVIS: Yeah, yeah. I like that one.

LIAM: Probably, probably. What about Greyskull
Keep? Because there was a tunnel from Greyskull

Keep into the city.

TALIESIN and ASHLEY: He might not know about
that.

ASHLEY: Is there anything or anyone that Thordak
fears the most?

MATT: "Thordak has no fear. Thordak rules all."

LIAM and TRAVIS: Insight check.

TRAVIS: One.

(laughter)

LIAM: Two.

LAURA: Wait wait wait.

MATT: You can't all make insight checks to cover
for the last person failing.

TALIESIN: Four.

LAURA: No, but I've been insight checking the
whole damn time.

MATT: I know, I know.

LIAM: But I get plus two so it's actually four,
Matt, so spill his secrets.

LAURA: 25.

MATT: 25. Seems to be telling the truth from what
he knows. You get the sense that in a strange way,

while he was an intelligent fellow, he was also
kind of a sniveling patsy. And the way that Kima's

talked off the cuff since this began to happen,
since you began to prepare for the corpse, she

seems to have a history, or at least her and
Allura both have a history with him in the city,

and he was basically a spineless coward.

MARISHA: Well, I mean, it makes sense, to a
certain point. When you have a big enough ego you

don't have any more fears, I guess.

LIAM: Are we done with him?

LAURA: That's it.

SAM: I don't think he's going to talk anymore. We
should kill him.

MATT: The spell at this point has subsided and the
last bit of energy and mist that had entered the

body slowly drifts out of the open mouth and nose,
(gasps), and the corpse goes cold.

LIAM: You guys can fill me in, in a bit. And I
grab his collar and drag him outside with the rest

of the bodies and start overseeing the burning of
the bodies.

MATT: Okay. And there are large pyres for a lot of
the lizardmen corpses and wyvern pieces, they've

all been thrown. All the rest of the dead soldiers
have been rounded up and have blankets and cloth,

whatever's nearby, to haul them over the wall and
begin to recount who fell among them.

LAURA: (gasps) Can I fly up in the air and see if
I can spot the boys?

TALIESIN: We have the stone, you can find the boys
with the stone. If you would like to use the stone

to pick up the boys--

MARISHA: Here. I give the stone to Vex.

MATT: Okay. You concentrate on the stone for a
minute. Your form begins to shift. Your

physicality begins to almost liquefy and then
swirls and vanishes from view. You open your eyes,

and you're in shadow. You're in shade. You're in
this little nook at the side of the rock crevasse,

and you hear two voices go (surprised gasp). And
you look immediately to your left and you see

Hunin and Kyor are both there. One of them has
dropped the crystal on the ground--

LAURA: Don't drop it!

MATT: "Sorry! Sorry!"

LAURA: No, no. That's okay.

MATT: "It started glowing and I got scared."

LAURA: I put it in my pocket. I'm just so glad
you're safe.

MATT: "I'm glad you're safe too. Is everything
okay?"

LAURA: Everything is wonderful. Do you want to
come back to the fort? All the bad guys are dead.

MATT: They both look at each other. "Okay." And
Hunin takes Kyor by the hand and they both walk

after you as you make your way back towards Fort
Daxio.

LAURA: Okay.

MATT: The rest of you--

LAURA: I bamf Trinket out and let them ride on
Trinket.

MATT: Okay! They both climb up after an awkward
five minutes of trying to convince them that it's

okay. Trinket nudges them a little bit and they
get up on top.

LAURA: He's got a taste for the celestial blood.

MATT: They're both riding on top of him and he's
proudly walking. (bear grunts)

LAURA: Yeah.

TRAVIS: Babysitter Trinket.

TALIESIN: I say we sleep here for the evening. We
also can go through whatever materials the

invading army left behind. Cannibalize them for
our own. I suppose we can eat.

MARISHA: I talk to Allura, I guess.

MATT: Okay.

MARISHA: Is she there?

MATT: Yeah, she's nearby. She was helping gather
the dead, and she was talking with General Elle

and getting the ideas of what the next course of
action is and as you approach her she turns to you

and as she recognizes your approach and goes,
"Looking to probably make a jaunt to Whitestone

"shortly and see what we've gathered on that end. I
can bring everyone with me if you'd like. You can

"stay here if you like, but..."

SAM: We should not leave them again.

MARISHA: I would feel terrible leaving everyone
again after we gathered everyone. Who cast that

spell on you? Feeblemind, that's very high level
magic.

MATT: "It is, and it was beyond the capability of
that... man. But he pulled out a small wooden

"trinket in front of me which shattered and sent me
into my stupor."

MARISHA: It was Xanthas?

MATT: "Yes."

SAM and LAURA: He had that wand that shattered.

MARISHA: Ah.

SAM: Did anyone escape the fight to go report back
to home?

LAURA: There were a couple wyverns that got away.
That's why I don't know if it-- whatever.

SAM: So does the plan stay the same?

TRAVIS: I mean we can come back and stage here but
we can't leave anybody here.

LAURA: Say that again?

TRAVIS: We can stage here, but we can't leave
anybody here.

TALIESIN: No, we can't leave anybody here. But
it's interesting. If we're lucky, he's going to

send more troops to attack and we can be long gone
by then.

MARISHA: Be long gone? What happened to using this
as our base?

LAURA: They know about it!

TRAVIS: We can stage here. We can rally here. We
can't leave anybody here now.

TALIESIN: We can't leave anybody here. We either
abandon or we rally at this point. And now that we

know there are forces underneath Emon, that is
good news. That is very good news.

MARISHA: Was it only the wyverns and the lizardmen
that attacked?

MATT: "Initially. It seemed to be some sort of a
shock force. Apparently, that fire giant was their

"reinforcements or a general, I know not. From what
you've told me, at the very least. There weren't

"any powerful entities here at the get go, either.
I don't think it was sent as a full-scale assault

"more than it was, at this stage, just enough to
harry and see what was here."

MARISHA: Who was in contact with Xanthras?
Xanthras? Xanthas? Xanthas. Who was in contact

with Xanthas?

TRAVIS: Oh my lord.

SAM: Zenith.

MARISHA: Zenith. Who was in contact with Xena the
Warrior Princess?

MATT: Xanthas. "None of us were in contact with
him. I hadn't seen him, probably in the better

part of a year."

MARISHA: Then how did he know?

TALIESIN: They saw us.

SAM: They said the scouts spotted us.

LAURA: Yeah. They spotted us with scouts.

TRAVIS: You had your hood up, it's okay.

LIAM: What of the elves? Did I hear correctly that
Syngorn has sent forces?

MATT: "As far as I know and the information I have
received from Syngorn, they've taken the rest of

"the troops under General Mikael Daxio as well as
the forces of Syngorn and they're marching towards

"Emon, one day out."

LIAM: One day out.

LAURA: (groans) Oh my god.

TALIESIN: We could meet them at Emon.

SAM: Wait, what?

TALIESIN: They're marching towards Emon.

SAM: No. Wait, what?

LAURA: Yeah. So they're a day away.

SAM: Is that true?

MATT: "They're making their way northward, towards
Daxio."

SAM: Yeah, to us.

MARISHA: Oh, to Daxio.

MATT: "They're a day out from Emon, but they have
to-- it's in the pathway."

SAM: That's fine.

TALIESIN: We want them here.

MARISHA: That's not okay.

SAM: Well, where else are we gonna meet?

MARISHA: Well, if they have to go through the
battleground--

SAM: They don't have to go through, they can go
around it; they're not idiots.

MATT: "They will, and in doing so, it's about a
four-day journey on foot for those troops to make

"it here to Fort Daxio."

LAURA: Okay. So we have four days.

TALIESIN: We don't have four days.

TRAVIS: I would volunteer that we should head
south and meet them where they are.

SAM: On the outskirts of Emon.

TRAVIS: Yep. Better than being here, 'cause we let
people get away.

MARISHA: We're sitting ducks here.

SAM: So we're gonna march all the troops out of
here.

LAURA: All the troops, which is like, 20 people
left.

TRAVIS: You gotta reposition once you give your
position away.

MATT: As you as that, Elle pulls forward, her
helmet under her arm. "Last count, looks like we

"have 55 strong surviving."

TRAVIS: Yeah, we're gonna march all 55.

MARISHA: Out of 200 that were here?

SAM: Remember that the original plan
was for Thordak to know where we were, and

send Raishan to kill us.

MARISHA: Where the fuck is Raishan? Where is
Raishan?

LAURA: Well, we sent Raishan back to Whitestone
with Asum and then we left, so for all we know

Raishan's there.

MARISHA: Allura, you were talking about going to
Whitestone.

MATT: "That was my plan, yes."

MARISHA: And what were all of your goals, again?

SAM: All of your goals?

MARISHA: All of Allura's goals.

MARISHA: What did you want to do in Whitestone?

MATT: "That's a very broad question."

SAM: We need to meet up with Raishan. We need to
find a rally point.

ASHLEY: Open a magic cafe.

TALIESIN: 55 men in a broken citadel is not a
plan. It was a plan before, it's not a plan now.

These things have to change.

LIAM: We've an army close to Emon. We do have to
talk to Raishan, though. I think we should go to

Whitestone immediately, talk to her, and figure
out if there's any news with her.

SAM: She was coming back there, right?

TRAVIS: Yeah, is that where she is?

LAURA: Potentially

LIAM: But be ready to move to the army from
Syngorn, quickly. It might be our best shot, our

only shot?

SAM: Should we march these 55 blokes to the south
while we go to Whitestone? I'll stay and march the

troops while you guys go back to Whitestone.

LAURA: No, we need to rest!

MARISHA: Okay, hang on, hang on. What time of day
is it?

MATT: At this point it's probably a little later
afternoon; you're maybe an hour, hour and a half

from sunset.

MARISHA: All right. We can gather our most elite.

LAURA: It started really strong.

MARISHA: I can get a decent amount of people
through if we Teleport Via Plants very quickly,

but not all of them.

LAURA: No.

SAM: I think the 55 will be okay if we send them
off into the wilderness.

MARISHA: Here's the thing, 55 people walking near
Emon is not very covert. And it's clear that there

are scouts everywhere; Fort Daxio was off the map
until we showed up. No one was watching it until

we showed up.

LIAM: But we are out of time.

MARISHA: But we are what Thordak is watching.

TALIESIN: So we have to be very careful of where
we go and what we do.

MARISHA: We put everyone at risk no matter where
we are.

SAM: No matter what, there's not gonna be another
attack on Daxio in the next 24 hours. So we can go

back to Whitestone, we can spend the night here
and then go back, or go back now and spend a night

and then bamf right back before there's any
attack.

TALIESIN: Or we can send half the troops, as many
as we can, tonight, stay here, and in the morning

send the rest, and we can go with them.

MARISHA: To where Syngorn's army is?

LAURA: But we're gonna have to bring those guys
back out here, right? I mean, we're gonna have to

march with the 55 guys. So why send them through
to Whitestone? Why not sleep tonight, deep within

the fort, wake up in the morning?

LIAM: They rest up, we go--

SAM: To Whitestone? Get info, come back tomorrow
if we need to.

LAURA: Yeah, but we need to rest now.

TRAVIS: You can't get 55 guys in the mansion,
right?

SAM: The mansion, sure.

LIAM: But the mansion can't travel.

SAM: Unless we spend the night here first before
going to Whitestone bright and early in the morning.

LAURA: Well, maybe we should do that.

SAM: We need to rest anyway. I'm at nine hit
points.

LAURA: Can you use the mansion tonight?

SAM: No, I can't.

LAURA: So we sleep within the fort. Deep within
the fort.

SAM: Yeah.

MARISHA: What's left of the fort? What's
undestroyed?

MATT: The fort's actually holding pretty well.
Other than the front doors, which need to be

repaired, and right now there isn't anything
beyond just putting things in the way because of

the impact of the giant. The outer wall's taken
quite a bit of damage, but the fortress itself,

for the most part, is standing.

SAM: We'll be okay for eight hours of sleep, and
then we can go to Whitestone, ask around, come

back if we need to. Let's go to sleep.

MARISHA: Maybe we should have someone on watch.

TALIESIN: Well, it is a fort.

LAURA: We'll put the guards on watch.

TALIESIN: They have a system.

MATT: General Elle says, "I can do that; don't
worry. And don't make fun of my horns!"

LAURA: I'm not, I'm not! I'm just saying that's
the sound they'll make if they come.

MATT: "It's a very specific sound my soldiers are
trained to hear."

ASHLEY: Of course, if you need us, you do blow
that horn.

MATT: "Of course."

ASHLEY: 'Cause we will hear it.

MATT: "Yes you will."

TALIESIN: I need to sleep.

LAURA: Let's find a bedroom and lay the fuck
down.

MARISHA: Are we sleeping in the fort?

ASHLEY: Is there a room with a big fireplace in
it, and we can all just have a sleepover?

MATT: If you want to, there is a hearth in one of
the common-room areas.

LAURA: Is there somewhere to clean up?

MATT: They do. There are a few bathrooms that can
be...

ASHLEY: Are there hides and things, like, fluffies
we can lay on?

MATT: There's nothing terribly comfortable, but
there are blankets. It does get cold this far

north. It's not in the winter months anymore, but
just south of the Cliffkeep Mountains in this

area, it does get kinda chilly, so there are
blankets, there are hides, there are things to

keep warm in.

LIAM: I mean, you just got used as a weapon; you
might want a shower.

ASHLEY: Ah, I like the dirt.

LAURA: I'm gonna go soak.

MARISHA: I'm gonna crash as soon as I find
something fluffy to fall on.

MATT: Okay. All right. The rest of you guys find
yourselves to rest for the evening? Okay. Those

who care to, you clean up, and find rest as well.
The food is meager but serviceable, and you all

find yourselves an evening's rest. Unperturbed, a
good nine, ten hours pass of intense sleep as you

all are sore, you are all exhausted-- although you
do recover your point of exhaustion, Scanlan,

that's gone-- as do you, from your frenzied rage--
You all come to consciousness shortly after

daybreak, I'd say; you got to bed probably right
around sunset, or a little bit past sunset, so

it's just starting to get the sun over the
mountains. The day is yours.

LIAM: Well, we said what we were gonna do; we're
gonna go to Whitestone.

LAURA: Then let's fucking go to Whitestone. Yep.
That's what we said we were gonna do.

LIAM: Kiki, set us up.

MARISHA: Sure.

SAM: We have any trees here?

MARISHA: Yeah.

MATT: Allura raises her hand. "I can still take us
there."

LAURA: Fuck, yeah, that's right!

MATT: "That was the plan, but... I mean, it's up
to you; we could find a tree, I suppose."

LAURA: Okay, but I have two extra guys with us
right now.

MATT: "Oh... I cannot do that, unfortunately."

MARISHA: Okay, you know what? I can get us there,
and Allura can get us back on the same day.

LAURA: Okay, yeah.

MARISHA: What are we getting at Whitestone?

LIAM: We're gonna talk to Raishan.

LAURA: See if Raishan's there.

MARISHA: Is Raishan there?

LAURA: Potentially!

MATT: "I haven't seen Raishan. We've been at the
fort this entire time, waiting for your return."

MARISHA: And she was getting Asum. You know what?
Yeah. Let's go. All right!

MATT: All right. You find your way out to one of
the slightly charred trees in the main courtyard

area, you open the portal. (whoosh) as it opens,
your two celestial-blooded children guide you

through, as well as Kima and Allura, into
Whitestone. You emerge from the Sun Tree in the

morning hours there as well. The city is quiet.
You can see that a lot of the guard has been

gathering arms and armor just in case they were
ever called to be part of this fray, and the city

just seems to be on high alert. But everything is
intact, Whitestone appears to be fine, and the

castle looms northward from your current position.
You guys make your way towards Whitestone Castle;

the guards greet you and lead you inside. Within
minutes, Cassandra has been summoned down and

says, "Percival, thank God you've returned."

TALIESIN: 'Thank God'? All right, why? What's
happened?

MATT: "You're alive, that's--"

TALIESIN: Oh! Yes.

MATT: "Look, the last time you left, you did not
come back in the best of places! I'm just

"beginning to think--"

TALIESIN: I just assume that everything is going
to be bad news for the next-- Just assume that I'm

going to assume everything is terrible every time
I see you for the next two months. Yes, we're alive.

MATT: "Speaking of Asum."

TALIESIN: Oh, no.

MATT: "Come."

LAURA: Oh, Cassandra, are there rooms for these
new guests?

MATT: "Who are these?"

LAURA: They're the sweetest! This is, um... Keurig
and Human.

(laughter)

MATT: You're the best foster mom ever!

LAURA: I have them written down somewhere, but I
can't find it in my notes!

LIAM: We met them at Booty, they're totally
celestial--

MARISHA: They're totally great, man!

SAM: Pumpkin latte...

MARISHA: They can just crash on our couch for a
few months.

MATT: You watch their noses scrunch a little as
you entirely butcher their names.

LIAM: They have, like, angel blood!

(laughter)

LAURA: What are their names again? I can't find
it.

MATT: Hunin and Kyor.

LAURA: Hunin and... Kyor?

MATT: Yes. K-Y-O-R.

LIAM: Do you see all of this?

LAURA: Got it. Angel babies. Writing it down.

MATT: "Yes, we can find them a room; that's fine.
Not to worry."

TALIESIN: We'll put them to work. They will be
useful.

MATT: "Fine."

SAM: I mean, not right away. They've been slaves.
Why don't we give them a day off?

ASHLEY: How old are they?

MATT: They're in their late teens. Mid- to late
teens.

SAM: Why don't we just give them some schooling?

LAURA: I guess they're about the same age as
Cassandra, then, huh?

MATT: Cassandra's a little bit older. Though she
doesn't act it. She acts, like, fifteen years her

senior. And always has.

TALIESIN: Yes. All right. Asum?

MATT: All right, you guys head upstairs with her;
she leads you-- oh, no. She does not lead you

upstairs. She leads you downstairs, through the
tunnels, towards the ziggurat. And as she's

walking along, she says, "Well. We've managed to
relocate the meeting room. And it required a bit

"of careful discussion as to our current allies. As
well, the transport was a bit awkward for Asum and

"his companion, and the dragon cannot maintain her
usual form around the ziggurat, so just be ready."

TALIESIN: I assumed.

MATT: As you guys make your way into the ziggurat
chamber, you can see already there's the platform

on the outside of the central area where the new
situation is set. And you see there's a table, and

you can already hear discussion off that way, and
there are a few servants that are bringing food

and drinks up there as part of the morning
breakfast for those who are in their meeting. And

you see there, right on the outskirts of the
table, wrapped and curled up, a gargantuan green

dragon with its head resting on its claws that is
listening in on part of the conversation.

LAURA: Oh, damn.

LIAM: Hey, little guy.

TALIESIN: Well, things have not been going well on
our end; how about yours?

MATT: To Cassandra?

TALIESIN: Well, to the room.

MATT: To the room? Okay, so as you head up to the
platform, everyone pauses and looks over. Asum

stands up-- you can see now, this being the real
Asum-- acid-scarred across the face, just as

Raishan's form arriving was, and sitting on the
opposite end of Raishan, and you can see there's

this very much kind of-- especially as a master of
spies and information, understands the importance

of, you know, strange bedfellows, given the
circumstances in war, but is still not at ease and

doesn't seem to keep-- always has one eye on the
dragon at all times, but gives a nod. "It's good

"to see that you're all alive. And we have much to
discuss. Please, come sit. You've met Brom

"before." And you look over and you can see Brom
Goldhand, the same square-jawed, shorter, black

unkempt hair, the cleric of Ioun that was and is
part of the council. However, the skin is covered

in burn scars. Like, the face, some of the
features are kind of missing. All the exposed

elements beyond the armor are just burned. But he
stands and bows to everyone. "It is good to see

"you all alive." He sits down at the table,
Cassandra takes a seat. Raishan has said nothing,

is just watching you all as you sit down, gives a
nod. Allura flanks behind you. Kima has been asked

not to attend. (chuckles) Allura sits down on--
there's a few stools, whatever chairs were

available were brought in here, so it's a
ramshackle meeting room, given how many butts have

to sit around this area.

LAURA: I'll stand.

MATT: But you are all here. "So. I've been told
that you were at Daxio and gathering other allies

"about. Please, let us know what the circumstance
is from your end of things. Things are not as well

"from ours."

TRAVIS: That sucks to hear.

TALIESIN: Daxio was discovered and attacked
prematurely.

MATT: "Wonderful."

TALIESIN: A group has already-- a small strike
group came and attacked the fort, did damage-- I

wouldn't necessarily call it significant damage--

LAURA: But wiped out a large percentage of the
force there.

TALIESIN: Decimated it.

TRAVIS: 75 percent.

LIAM: Grog?

TRAVIS: I mean, whatever those words mean.

(laughter)

TALIESIN: Broken clock. That's a very good guess,
Grog. I've completely lost my train of thought.

TRAVIS: Approximately.

MARISHA: The problem is that we've summoned many
of our allies to Fort Daxio and they are currently

in transit to that current location.

MATT: "But Daxio's been attacked."

MARISHA: Correct.

MATT: "Then I would not recommend taking folks to
Fort Daxio, especially if it's sustained damage.

"Well, we've been busy in Emon." The eyes glance
over at Raishan. "And, well, needless to say,

"things have gone a bit strange. We've been working
with Spireling Shenn and the Clasp, and we've been

"able to smuggle thousands of denizens of Emon
beneath the city. Those that were not directly

"enslaved or gave fealty to the Cinder King out of
fear and other interests we've been able to keep

"safe, and we've moved through the tunnels as often
as possible. There are still many, many, many

"wyvern riders that patrol the city; the townfolk
have run out of offerings and are now being sent

"out in slave groups to pull goods from nearby
cities to bring at the feet of the dragon. We also

"have a rising volcanic mass rising up beneath the
city that has consumed a number of the underground

"Clasp tunnels and has been slowly pinching off our
mobility beneath the town, so our intent to

"hopefully find some sort of retort or vengeance
and eventually take down the dragon... that clock

"is definitely ticking. Now. We've been keeping as
best an eye on Thordak as we can. Brom, bless him

"and his sacrifices, has been our front man for
this. And we know the creature has been shedding

"scales in places where jets of ever-burning flame
now spark and burn the city itself. Wherever each

"one of these scales falls, it seems to be a beacon
or source of its own white-hot fire. So the city

"is now a pitfall of its own right. The creature
itself, the dragon, it has these jets that now

"burst from underneath its armor, fire that licks
beyond it. It has a crest of red crystals now that

"begin to twist behind its horns and head, its eyes
are like white-hot stars from the sky, it's...

"It's still dragon-like, but something more primal
and elemental. (sighs) I'm not entirely certain

"what we're dealing with here. But Brom, you've
made some headway." And Brom clears his throat.

"(ahem) Myself and a few devout have been doing
our best to prepare surviving warriors and guards,

"and mages who were ousted from the Lyceum; we have
a few strike teams that have been effective in

"harrying the outside of his defenses, learning
information we can, knocking down the guardians.

"Since the fire giants have arrived it's been a
little more difficult, so we've been reduced to

"stealth missions, quick in and out. We don't have
the muscle to assault head-on. Up until recently."

His eyes pass over to you. "You say there are
armies making their way to the city, and we have

"you, all the strength that you've gained and the
stories I've heard from people here at Whitestone.

"If we're going to do something, we need to do it
soon. Now, the Lyceum has fallen to those that

"have sworn fealty to the Cinder King, so we don't
have use of those artifacts anymore. We've been

"trying to break through to the inner sanctum of
the Cloudtop, what the dragon now calls its home,

"its lair. It's burrowed this deep, underground
basin where it resides now. It only emerges when

"summoned or called to, or when it decides to make
a proclamation, drawing what little bit of

"children or families that it sees as a fun bit of
play to watch them bow and quiver in the street

"before asking for someone to prove their strength
and their worship of himself and strike them where

"they stand. Some days he's angry, some days he's
laughing; this dragon is completely insane, we

"can't really gauge. Red dragons are known for
pride, and you could count on that, use it against

"them, but sometimes his jaws quiver as he cries and
shakes and yells out laughing into the sky, a

"terrible laughter, one that can induce the worst
of nightmares. I don't know what we're dealing

"with anymore. However. We did have one team, a
very brave team, that provoked the dragon to leave

"its lair, and held it long enough for us to move
past it and pierce the inside of its sanctum. Now,

"we passed the wards, and the pools of fire. The
beast returned before we could get too far, and I

"lost most of my men, myself barely surviving with
my life, and the scars to tell of it. But the

"beast is building something in that lair.
Something it is guarding fiercely. And something

"that it will not leave. Something that I think it
has come to hold more dear than the city it now

"presides over. If there is a key to piercing its
pride, or if there is a reason to take it down, I

"begin to fear what it's holding below the city.
Now, by the might of the Wounded Mistress of

"Knowledge, Ioun, in the channels in which we
speak, that is all the information I have. I hope

"it's helped in some way." And he sits down in his
chair and clutches his holy symbol.

LAURA: Oh, my god.

TALIESIN: This changes much.

MARISHA: Yes, it does.

LIAM: Dragon. You're awfully quiet. We need to
act. What do you advise?

MATT: Raishan's head slowly turns towards you and
the nostrils kind of, (snort). Not in an

aggressive way, but in acknowledgement. The bright
yellowish eyes, you can see the blackened veins

that curl up past the scales, some of the scales
actually splitting and pulling open what you can

see would be some sort of a contagion-based wound
that, while not infected, does not look positive.

Raishan's lips curl up, and the voice billows
forth, a low, curling growl. "Well. If the madness

"continues to spread, and our recent conversations
confirm this, you've gathered your allies.

"Distraction. Attack. Confusion. Chaos, striking
towards the center of the city is the best chance

"we have. If we have a way in, to break the
Cloudtop, we can battle it there, draw it from its

"lair. Force it to possibly rescind within, and
have our final battle there. Or, if luck is with

"us, finish it on the streets itself, and discover
whatever it is it's keeping while it lies dead and

"burning in the street."

LIAM: You say "we"?

LAURA: You'll fight alongside us?

MATT: "What have I to gain by watching you do this
yourself?"

MARISHA: I imagine whatever he's building. What is
he building, do you know?

MATT: "I have no idea. He lets nothing within his
sanctum."

MARISHA: Insight check!

MATT: Make an insight check.

TRAVIS: Come on, high insight.

MARISHA: What was that? That's okay, 23.

MATT: 23?

SAM: (gasps) Whispers... The promo link is
lootcrate.com/criticalrole, promo code

criticalrole for ten percent off your first month
and remember, you're doing this to support the

show, and to support my kid's pre-school class.
And the memory of Dennis.

LAURA: And Coachella.

LIAM: Coachella needs capoeira classes.

(laughter)

TALIESIN: We should also probably tell them about
Xanthas, that we did have...

SAM: Tell who about Xanthas?

TALIESIN: The room.

SAM: Oh. Well, there was a guy named Xanthas, we
killed him, he was a dick, what's there to tell?

TALIESIN: There is worth telling, is that
he had already turned and was working

for the Cinder King.

SAM: Keyleth.

TALIESIN: And he is now no longer with us.

LAURA: Brom? Do you know Osysa? The sphinx?

MATT: Thinks for a minute. "I do not know of this
sphinx. I am sorry."

LAURA: There's a temple to Ioun in Vasselheim.

MATT: There is a temple to Ioun? In Vasselheim?

LAURA: There is.

MATT: "That is good. Many temples have fallen
and hidden through the years since our

"mistress was wounded."

LAURA: You would have no way of contacting it?

MATT: "I can beseech my mistress for information.
But short of travelling to Vasselheim which I have

"not been to, I cannot help you. I apologise, since
the Calamity, during the struggle with Tharizdun,

"my mistress was grievously wounded in the
struggle, and since then has been diminished. And

"in this time many of those that seek to lessen her
hold on the world and the spread of the

"information and knowledge that we wish to share
have then hunted and persecuted those of us that

"follow in her wake. So the temples have been
buried or kept in distributed information through

"anonymous channels. Only a few of us in positions
of protection can speak out so strongly. This..."

Surprisingly, he turns back towards the ziggurat.
"This was one such temple."

MARISHA: What?

LAURA: Yeah, that's right, this was a temple to
Ioun, we knew that.

MARISHA: Right, right, okay. So wait, Tharizdun?

MATT: "Tharizdun, the Chained Oblivion."

MARISHA: Is that another god?

MATT: "Yes, a very evil one. Sealed, chained
away. Nothing you need to worry about. Not in

"the midst of this."

TALIESIN: We're going to have to go to Emon.

LAURA: Well, yeah.

SAM: Sure. We'll rally all the troops outside and
maybe go in through the tunnels? I guess when we

rally the troops we can form a more specific
plan.

TALIESIN: There will be several armies, we will
have allies. There will be troops to create

distractions, there will be troops that go into
the tunnels, there will probably be a group of

troops that go in to try and pierce the lair. We
will create chaos.

SAM: Ooh, did the airship ever show up?

MATT: Cassandra says "Yes, the airship has been
told to make its way towards Fort Daxio."

SAM: Oh that's good! Oh wait. Well, you know.

TALIESIN: It could actually pick up the people
there.

SAM: Sure, yeah.

TRAVIS: Do we want to do a last trip to Vasselheim
to talk to Osysa or... since we got all the Vestiges?

SAM: To do what? It's not all the Vestiges in the
world?

LAURA: No, all the ones she told us about.

TRAVIS: She was like, if you get these then 
I will help you.

SAM: Oh really? She said that?

LAURA: Did she say that?

TRAVIS: Did she say that?

MARISHA: Did she say that?

LAURA: Do we remember her saying anything like
that?

MATT: Well you didn't learn about the Vestiges
until it was--

LAURA: It was from her hubby, her boyfriend.

MATT: Yeah, Kamaljiori, it was, yeah.

TRAVIS: Yeah, that name.

LAURA: The one that said a name is earned.

MATT: Yes.

LAURA: Do we need to go to him?

TRAVIS: It's a sphinx.

LAURA: Was there anybody that said they would help
us once we got all the Vestiges? I feel like they

said that once we got all the Vestiges we'd be
like extra awesome.

SAM: We are extra awesome.

LAURA: Well, yeah, yeah, yeah.

MARISHA: I mean, there's some-- I feel like
there's not some sort of Voltron thing considering

there are more vestiges in the world.

TRAVIS: You lack imagination.

SAM: Quick, let's try to fit all of our Vestiges
together right now.

LAURA: Okay, let's do it.

SAM: I just stab at Pike.

LAURA: Ow ow ow ow.

ASHLEY: I don't feel anything.

TRAVIS: Does anything happen when they're all
touching?

(laughter)

MATT: You take all the Vestiges and and smush them
into a pile on the central table and all the rest

of the council kind of--

LAURA: Oh, it's not magic down here

MATT: --look curiously and they all gather around
as you begin to place them all into the central

area, kind of overlapping in almost the shape of a
person who is built of Vestiges. You put them each

one down, their kind of magical essence clinging
with the surface of the stone table.

LAURA: There's no magic down here!

LIAM: I just lie down across the entire table.

MATT: All right, the sound of them impacting. They
all sit there on the table.

LIAM: They don't stick to my armor somehow?

MATT: No.

TRAVIS: You gotta say a word.

MATT: Everyone's kind of standing there watching
quietly as nothing happens, and then Asum goes,

"All right then, um."

SAM: Maybe you should put your armor back on,
Pike.

ASHLEY: I mean, I have underclothes.

SAM: Okay.

MATT: Yeah, we had that discussion. You need
things beneath the armor or it'll cut you to shit.

ASHLEY: Just like bareback armor.

MATT: That'd be a bad idea. You'd get pinched in
all the wrong places.

TALIESIN: We do have-- Well, we do have our own
tunnel into the city that we can show-- Is anybody

using our tunnels into the city?

SAM: The Clasp? Oh you mean our specifically? Last
time I scryed there, there was someone in the keep.

LAURA: Can you scry there now?

SAM: No.

MARISHA: Wait, weren't they--

LAURA: Oh yeah, Keyleth! Can you scry? Not down
here. We have to leave the ziggurat.

MARISHA: I've got the Scrying Eye.

TALIESIN: If the keep is clear, that does give us
access. Possibly clear access.

LAURA: We could bamf into the keep.

SAM: Yeah, that just gets us inside the wall. That
doesn't-- that's it.

LIAM: That's not nothing.

SAM: The sewers is where we need to be.

LIAM: It connects. That'll get us under the wall.
What about-- What about Cashew? What about Shaun?

What about Zahra?

MARISHA: Cashew's kinda mad at us.

LIAM: Yeah, I'm sure he is, but this the end of
times.

MATT: Cassandra kind of raises her hand and goes,
"Kashaw and Zahra, they are ready to go whenever

you are ready."

LAURA: Sweet.

LIAM: Shaun?

MATT: "Shaun we've -- we're trying to decide if it
is best to keep someone here to maintain the

"barrier, or if we are going all in on
this, if we just send everyone out there

"and leave the city defenseless."

SAM: I think it's best to leave him here,
especially since that was his plan all along,

because he is a dominator of all worlds and a god
among men.

MATT: Allura raises her hand and goes, "Either I
or Shaun can run the barrier; you can decide. I

"don't mind staying back or going to the forefront.
It's your choice which one of us to take."

TRAVIS: Can Gilmore transport people like you
can?

MATT: "I believe he can, yes."

TRAVIS: I like Gilmore.

LIAM: For what? For keeping him alive or taking
him?

TRAVIS: No, bringing him with. Dude, he turned that
guy into a little pretzel dough ball. Just because

he fucked with him.

MARISHA: But Allura can teleport us back and
forth.

TRAVIS: Yeah, so can he.

MARISHA: Can he?

TRAVIS: That's what he just said.

TALIESIN: Allura signed up for this fight.

LIAM: Yeah, Allura, what do you want to do?

MATT: "It's interesting. I have a lot of personal
history with Thordak. I feel a deep sense of

"responsibility for all of this that still eats
away at me. And because of that a part of me

"really longs to be there with all of you, putting
this dark and fiery chapter to rest. On the other

"hand, having already faced him, and having an
inkling of what he is now, every part of me wants

"to run away. Screaming."

LIAM: But you have faced him.

MATT: "I have."

LIAM: And that's invaluable.

MATT: "I lost many good people in doing so."

TALIESIN: And we're going to lose many more.

MATT: "Most likely. So the choice is yours, Vox
Machina."

TRAVIS: Gilmore.

(laughing)

TRAVIS: No offense. You're lovely and very
strong.

MATT: You watch her audibly (sighs).

LAURA: Is that relief? That was relief.

MATT: It's both. It's a lot of things. It's an
emotionally conflicted exhale, but it is a relief

of tension regardless.

LIAM: I disagree. You fought this fucking thing
before. You know him. That is invaluable. You have

more experience than we do. You're wiser than us.

MARISHA: Scanlan? What do you think?

SAM: I think we should decide this the way we
always do.

LIAM: Coin toss?

SAM: Talk about it for a long, long time.

(laughter)

MATT: That's D&D, man.

SAM: Let's put it to a vote.

LIAM: Experience. Experience.

SAM: A voice vote. All in favor of Gilmore, say,
"Hell yeah." All in favor of Allura, say, "Ah,

"sure, sure." Right?

SAM: Gilmore?

SAM, ASHLEY, TRAVIS: Hell yeah!

SAM: Oh, just us. Allura?

SAM, TALIESIN, LIAM, MARISHA: Ah, sure.

(laughter)

TRAVIS: But that was three and three. What'd you
vote?

ASHLEY: I voted Gilmore.

TRAVIS: That's four.

LIAM: I don't know what would happen. So: Gilmore,
Gilmore...

TRAVIS: Four and three.

TALIESIN: Gilmore doesn't want to go either.

ASHLEY: Neither of them want to go, but she's so
scared now.

MARISHA: Allura. Hang on, wait, I'm talking to
her. I'm not voting; I'm talking to her.

(laughter)

SAM: "Allura! I vote for Gilmore."

(laughter)

TALIESIN: Unless Gilmore feels like volunteering.

MARISHA: Allura, I have had destiny pushed upon me
since birth. What do you feel is right? Because

I'm not sure what to believe anymore.

LAURA: Make this decision for us!

MARISHA: Make this decision for us!

SAM: Hey, let's leave it to the dice!

MATT: Allura turns to you, kind of takes the side
of your head in her hands and says, "And in

"becoming a leader, you've been put in a position
to make very difficult choices. As you grow as a

"leader, you'll have to make many more. This is not
my choice to make."

MARISHA: But in many ways you've been our
leader--

(laughter)

SAM: We already voted, people! And Gilmore won!

TALIESIN: No, actually, Allura won.

MATT: "Who do you choose?"

TRAVIS: Yeah, it's four to three.

LIAM: Well, then, it's covered. Then it's done.

MATT: "Keyleth."

TALIESIN: All right.

LIAM: Unless you do what Laura and Marisha did and
do the exact opposite after the vote. Right? Come

on, Allura.

MARISHA: Wait, are you trying to use this as an
allegory?.

LIAM: No. That's just a throwback to, what
episode...?

MATT: At this point, Raishan picks up and goes--

MARISHA: Oh. Clarota?

MATT: "Oh, god, at the rate this is going, I think
perhaps neither of them are going to make it."

LAURA: Yeah. Sorry about that.

SAM: Trial by combat.

(laughter)

MATT: The survivor goes to Emon!

LAURA: I mean, is Gilmore strong enough?

MARISHA: Yeah, is he strong enough? Is he all
right?

TRAVIS: We'll rest him up; he'll be great. Pretzel
dough ball. It's gonna be amazing.

MATT: "Last I checked, he's handling the barrier,
but he's a capable man. May need a bit of rest,

"but so did you."

SAM: Quick stop to get his parents' permission,
then we're on our way.

MARISHA: Allura.

SAM: Wait, what? What happened?

LIAM: She's talking to her.

MARISHA: Fucking god dammit, you guys. I'm not
making votes here! In many ways, I feel--

(laughing)

MARISHA: What?

TRAVIS: We're taking Gilmore.

LAURA: No, she's talking to her!

LIAM: She's not trying to take her. She's talking
about something else.

MARISHA: Jesus Christ.

MATT: There are a few chuckles at the table now,
as everyone is just dumbfoundedly watching you all

argue over who to take for five minutes.

LIAM: Vox Machina.

MATT: Vox Machina.

MARISHA: In many ways, I feel we are walking down
the path you've already walked. In that case, I

feel it's time for new blood, and we've been with
Gilmore since the beginning. We need you as an

ally back here, we'll keep you on the sidelines as
an oracle, and we'll take Gilmore to be by our side.

LAURA: Yeah, yeah, yeah, that's what we said
already.

MARISHA: Look, he set me up to make the call,
okay! I was trying to follow through, Jesus.

ASHLEY: You got it, Keyleth.

LIAM: Smash cut to Gilmore saying, "No fucking
way!"

MATT: "I'm not going, what are you talking about?!
No! That's suicide! They make me baguettes every

"morning in Whitestone. I'm staying here."

(laughter)

Allura kind of nods and goes, "Very well. I'll
send Kima as well. All the strength that we have

"in your direction. I'll stay here and play
guardian of Whitestone, as I have for quite some

"time." She looks to Cassandra, looks to Raishan,
everyone else, they all kind of nod and Cassandra

stands up, holds her collar and-- it's interesting
in moments like these that such a young girl still

carries the weight of a room like this, of such
giants by comparison to her and still can command

attention so quickly with a subtle physicality.
And then she adjusts her collar a bit and raises

her chin. "And so it is. Vox Machina, we gather
our forces. Put your minds together. Decide on

"your plan of action, your means of attack. Soon we
begin the assault on Emon."

And that's where we'll end our episode for
tonight.

SAM: At dawn, we vote!

MARISHA: I demand a recount! In Pennsylvania and
Florida specifically.

LIAM: You know, Gilmore won the popular vote.

(laughter)

MATT: You guys, thank you very much. We're on the
home stretch, it looks like.

LAURA: Oh my god.

MATT: Man. All right. You guys have a week to plan
amongst yourselves what to do next time.

MARISHA: Are we assuming that we're sleeping after
this? Because god damn.

ASHLEY: We already just slept.

MARISHA: That's right, because we bamfed to
Whitestone. Never mind.

MATT: Correct, yes, you've only used your spell
there. We will unfortunately not have a Travis

Willingham next week, or Ashley Johnson.

LAURA: Oh fuck. It's going to be an empty bench
over here.

MATT: However, based on the gathering of allies
just for this battle, we may have a guest or two.

(gasps)

SAM: Gathering?

MATT: You guys are gathering all your allies.

SAM: As in, like, the Insane Clown Posse is
coming?

MATT: Yeah man! The Dark Carnival's here!

(laughter)

SAM: Next week on Critical Role.

MATT: Just start spraying Faygo all over you
guys.

LAURA: Wait, it's happening next week?
We're going into battle? We don't have

Travis and Ashley?

TALIESIN: Shit's happening.

LIAM: Dude, that city's probably like the nine
circles of Hell, we're not just going to get

there, fast track to Thordak.

LAURA: Okay okay okay.

TRAVIS: If you got Lin Manuel next week, I will
kill you.

LAURA: No, it's not, don't say-- no it's not.

MATT: I wish, I wish, that'd be great.

TRAVIS: I'm just putting it out there, I don't
want to have to kill you.

MATT: All right, cool.

TRAVIS: Thank you, Loot Crate!

MATT: Thank you Loot Crate, again, for being a
great sponsor. Thank you guys so much for watching

tonight, we'll see you Tuesday at Talks Machina,
and Thursday for the continuation of this

climactic downwards spiral into ancient red dragon
territory.

LIAM: This bullet-proof think-tank.

MATT: Yeah, what could possibly go wrong? (laughs)
Anyway guys, have a wonderful week, a wonderful

weekend, a wonderful evening, and is it Thursday
yet? Good night.

[music]