MATT: Hello, everyone, and welcome to Critical
Role, where a bunch of us nerdy-ass voice actors

sit around and play Dungeons & Dragons. And get
the somewhat adjusted, altered countdown to us

going live.

TRAVIS: False start, offense.

MATT: It's great. But yes, welcome. We have just a
couple of announcements to do tonight. Nothing too

long and crazy. First and--

SAM: Mine's really long, Matt.

MATT: Okay, Sam's is really long. Speaking of
which, let's go ahead and get us into our

wonderful sponsor for tonight, Loot Crate.

ALL: Loot Crate!

MATT: Thank you so much, Loot Crate. Sam, if you
want to tell us a little about Loot Crate.

SAM: You guys, Loot Crate. The theme this month is
Magical. Brands included Dr. Strange, Fantastic

Beasts and Where to Find Them, and more. Please
make a special call out to the below Dr. Strange

Q-Fig Loot Crate has announced will be in this
month's crate. I just did.

(laughter)

SAM: But tonight I've prepared, because we all
need just some theater today. I've prepared

for us a small radio play.

ALL: Ooh!

SAM: I'd like each of you to read a part in.

LIAM: Pass 'em down, pass 'em down.

SAM: Pass it down, keep passing it down. I didn't
know Ashley was going to be here, so, Ashley, you

can read with Travis. You are both--

MARISHA: Sam!

SAM: You are both doing it together.

MARISHA: The first line--

SAM: Guys, calm down. It's sort of a Dust Bowl
type of a play I wrote.

MARISHA: Sam!

SAM: I wrote a play, okay?

MARISHA: Do I have to say this?

SAM: Yes! You do! Come on! Guys, okay, I'll be
reading stage direction, Taliesin is playing

Junior, Marisha is playing Mama, Liam is Pa, Laura
is playing Sam Riegel.

And Travis and Laura are-- Travis and Ashley
are the radio sound effects duo. Let's see how

this goes. August, 1929, the Badlands, South
Dakota. Lights up on the McCallister Farm. Mama, a

sturdy, country woman, comes in from the windy,
dusty farm and slams the door. Sound effects!

ASHLEY: (wind noises)

TRAVIS: (ke-thunk)

MARISHA: "Junior? Junior! Git yer slowpoke,
molasses ass down here."

SAM: Oh! That's me! Enter Junior, a simpleton,
down the stairs.

TRAVIS: (ke-kunk, ke-kunk, ke-kunk, ke-kunk)

SAM: Good sound effects, guys.

TALIESIN: "Sorry I didn't do no chores, Mama. I'm
a simpleton!" What are you doing to me?

MARISHA: "You'll be sorry when I run this
cat-o-nine tails over your rear end."

ASHLEY: (whip sound)

SAM: Yeah, good sound effect, good sound effect.

TALIESIN: "It ain't my fault because school was
late because Teacher Sally died the evening before last."

SAM: Come on! Project, project!

TALIESIN: "It ain't my fault school was
late because, well, Teacher Sally died this

"evening before last."

MARISHA: "Not sweet, sweet Sally. My rear end, I'm
going to miss her. What did her in?" I don't even

know what the fuck--

SAM: Enter Pa, a drunk. He smashes a beer bottle
against the family cat.

LIAM: (thumps)

LAURA: No, you're not the sound effects.

TRAVIS: (glass shattering)

ASHLEY: (cat snarling)

SAM: There you go.

(laughter)

LIAM: "Oh, same thing that kills us all around
here. Dust poisoning. As we all know the Dust

"Bowl's full of radioactive dust. It melts your
face clean off of the bone."

MARISHA: "It's true. And dust ebola is the second
leading cause of death in the dust bowl. My rear

"end just can't stand this dusty dust. Deadly
dust."

SAM: It should be noted that the playwright did no
historical research on the Dust Bowl.

(laughter)

SAM: Junior.

TALIESIN: "Here, Ma, I found your bagpipes to play
at the dust funeral."

ASHLEY: (awful yet great impression of bagpipes)

(laughter)

SAM: Good sound effects!

LIAM: "Oh, Lord, what will we ever do with this
dust?!"

SAM: Enter Sam Riegel, a strapping traveling
salesman from the big city, played by Laura.

LAURA: "Hi, folks! Handsome Sam Riegel here. Only
thing more handsome than me is this here Loot

"Crate, featuring X-X-X."

SAM: I was supposed to put in actual stuff. Promo
link "lootcrate.com/criticalrole." Keep going.

(laughter)

LAURA: "Once you enjoy the geeky gear inside, you
can use the box to clean up, well, all this dust!"

MARISHA: "Can it be? A box than can cure our woes
and pick us up back onto our dusty rear ends?"

What's with-- why?

ALL: Hooray!

SAM: And so the McCallisters used a dusty old
vacuum cleaner--

TRAVIS: (vacuum noises)

SAM: And their Loot Crates to clean up all the
dust in the Dust Bowl. Thus saving their farm and

the American Dream.

(cheering)

TRAVIS: Holy shit. It keeps getting better.

SAM: I'm a playwright, guys.

MARISHA: A few on the fly rewrites there.

MATT: And you know, based on our viewership
tonight, it's a pretty good opening night.

(laughter)

MATT: Far better than most playwrights.

SAM: Thank you.

MATT: So, well done, Sam.

SAM: Good sound effects, guys.

LAURA: Yeah, that was good sound effects.

MATT: Awesome. Well. Next up, we have a quick
announcement that a special guest is going to come

in here and tag me out. We have Brian Foster. Go
ahead and tag. Boom!

(cheering)

BRIAN: Hello, hello, hello. Man, it's been a Chris
Hardweek, hasn't it?

ALL: Oh!

BRIAN: There's a giant note here that says, "Kill
Grog. He's gotten too powerful." All right, so

we're going to talk about Talks Machina, which is
the new Critical Role after-slash-talk show.

(cheering)

BRIAN: We've all been working on this along with a
lot of people at Geek & Sundry for a super long

time. So we're super excited about it. It's going
to start this Tuesday at 7:00pm. You can watch it

on Twitch for the first four episodes, and then
those are going to be available on the VOD for

Twitch and on the Geek & Sundry website. You can
also watch it on a website called

Pro-ject Alpha dot com.

(laughter)

BRIAN: We're going to have two or three members of
the cast on every single week. Mostly from this

cast. We're also going to have celebrity guests--
previous guests from Critical Role. We're going to

let them back out. We're going to let 'em back
out. And we're also going to have some

super fans that are going to be able to be on the
show. We're going to get all dirty and nerdy.

We're going to talk about the previous week's
episode. We're going to give away prizes every

single week. We're also going to have the
near-impossible task of picking out your fanart

and gifs-- I said "gifs" because "jif" sounds so
mushy. It's "gif", right? Yeah, yeah.

MARISHA: Yeah, living language; we decide.

BRIAN: It's been decided and decreed, ladies and
gentlemen. So here's what we need from you-- We're

going to give out a bunch of Critical Role merch,
we're going to give out a bunch of D&D merch,

we're going to give out stuff from our friends at
Wyrmwood.

(cheering)

BRIAN: We're going to give out, it says here, a
shirtless picture of Travis Willingham riding a

mechanical bull.

LAURA: Oh!

TRAVIS: The photoshoot is still TBD.

BRIAN: Oh, I see. Yes. (singing) He's waiting for
an open tanning bed. Because we get so many--

there's so many thousands of tweets every Thursday
night that go out about this amazing and weird and

horrible show, we are asking that if you guys want
to tweet a question for us to ask the cast live on

the air, we're asking that you tweet
@TalksMachina, which is the official Twitter

handle for our show. And use the hashtag
#AskTalksMachina because that way we can track

'em, make sure we get as many of your questions as
we can on the show. Send your fanart and gifs to

talksmachina@gmail.com anytime between Thursday
nights during the show and Tuesdays at 9:00am

Pacific Time. We're trying to feature fanart and
gifs from each week's episodes since we're going

to be talking about those episodes on the show on
Tuesdays. So send those in. That's it. We're going

to see you guys this Tuesday at 7:00pm on Twitch
and Pro-ject Alpha dot com. Until then, it's high noon!

(laughter)

SAM: Fix your mic there, Matt.

TRAVIS: Yes! Look at the jaw, it's so forced.

MATT: Motherfucker. Didn't get enough of that at
BlizzCon this past weekend. Okay, then. (laughs)

Thank you, Brian Foster.

ASHLEY: That guy's hot! Is he single?

MATT: He's taken, unfortunately.

ASHLEY: Aw.

MATT: By you? All right, so, anyway we have one
more quick announcement, Liam, if you want to take

over for this.

LIAM: Well it's not really an announcement, I'm
just a willing accomplice with one of my favorite

artist buddies. Sedona Parnham has sent something
she has made specifically for Sam Riegel.

SAM: Oh, me? Oh. Why?

LIAM: So it was sent to me on the sly, because
you're so dear. To all of us.

SAM: Is it a radio play?

LIAM: So dear. So charming. And now you will be
well-rested. Please accept this gift.

TALIESIN: Oh, I'm so excited.

SAM: What is this? Do I read it?

LIAM: No, don't read-- it's nothing to read. Just
open it up and show us all what you find.

TALIESIN: Oh, my--

(laughter)

SAM: It's a pillow case. It's a pillow case.

MARISHA: It's size appropriate.

SAM: The chest hair, the nipples. It's adorable,
guys.

LAURA: He's so cute!

SAM: This is 400 count Egyptian cotton here.

(laughter)

LIAM: There's only one other copy of that
pillowcase, and it is mine.

(laughter)

TRAVIS: Gross. Gross.

SAM: Are we going to be sleeping on the same
pillows at night?

LIAM: Yeah. I mean, we need a blanket as well.

ALL: (singing) Somewhere out there, 
(simultaneous) someone's saying a prayer!
(simultaneous) if love will see us through!

TRAVIS: You're in different parts of the song.

MATT: For all you Critters who are under the age
of 35, you have know idea what we're singing. I'm sorry.

TRAVIS: Go watch American Tail and Land Before
Time.

LIAM: So that was from Sedona who is known as
@anodesu on Twitter. She's done a ton of great art

for this show. She's one of my favorites; she's a
buddy now.

SAM: She's my favorite now.

MATT: Well, thank you, guys. Unless you have
anything else to kick forward, I think we jump

back into the chaos of the City of Brass and the
elemental plane of fire on tonight's episode of

Critical Role.

[dramatic music]

MATT: Hello, and welcome back, everyone. Sorry,
you waited too long, Taliesin. So, last we left off,

Vox Machina was slowly making their way toward the
final confrontation with Thordak, the Cinder King,

as well as the end of the Chroma Conclave,
hopefully, or the end of modern Tal'Dorei as

we know it. One way or the other. You found
yourselves preparing Fort Daxio for some sort of a

plot to draw Thordak out. In the process, you took
the rest of your intrepid adventurers to the fire

elemental plane in search of the final Vestige
that you had referred to yourself by the

androsphinx earlier in your adventure. Upon
arriving here, you spoke with a number of efreet

that ran the outskirts of the City of Brass.
Entered, found yourselves immediately traced and

followed, and discovering that the society here
is, well, very different than ones that you're

used to. You managed to barely escape a
confrontation in an alleyway with two efreet. You

escaped on the path of two seemingly recent-made
allies for the time being, led into their

establishment in which jewelry is crafted, and
with a plot to hopefully find whoever this fire

giant is that holds onto the Plate of the
Dawnmartyr. Many of you allowed chains to be

affixed to your neck and wrists so you could pass
as slaves in a society where they're relatively

normal under the efreet that run the city. Your
new friends, Senokir and Uten, are to help guide

you in the direction of the next part of your
venture. So. Picking up where we left off. You

guys have been led out into this main street,
watching the giant lava fountain that pours out

into this deeply carved pit in the center of the
ground. You see flickers of flame that

occasionally burst out between the various bits of
stonework that make up the floor in the center of

the streets here. Looking up into the sky, you can
see the deep reddish-orange hue of the skyline and

one burning hot sun in the sky that doesn't seem
to move from its position, but grows slightly

dimmer as the day goes on. You are all led out
into the street with Senokir and Uten leading you

out into the main area. Senokir turns back to the
rest of you, this slight half-smile on his face.

"So, we are to find our way to the first giant you
requested. This was the one named Whaska. Is that correct?"

LAURA: (whispering) Whaska. (louder) Mm-hmm.

MATT: "Let us find our way to the Zenith Forge
where he does most of his work."

TRAVIS: Forge?

MATT: "Zenith Forge. Now come. Follow me." And he
tugs the chains with a sudden burst and pulls you

along. As you begin walking, he begins to talk
about how: "Whaska is one of the few giants that

"still maintains the privilege of freedom. There
was a coup within their people a few years ago,

"seemingly orchestrated by some of their own. As
such most of the fire giants in the city

"either were cast out or were placed in chains. And
the few that remain, one of which you'll speak

"with on this day, is one of the ones that sold
them out. So. I hope you have your questions ready."

TRAVIS: Yeah, for you? Shitloads.

MATT: "Shh."

TRAVIS: Sorry.

MATT: Don't talk to your master in public.

TRAVIS: That was hot.

(laughter)

LIAM: I feel like you're working some shit out,
here.

(laughter)

TRAVIS: Do we have a safety word?

MATT: You did not establish one.

(laughter)

LAURA: Oh, no.

TRAVIS: (weakly) Oklahoma.

(laughter)

ALL: (singing) Oklahoma.

MATT: You're led through a multitude of streets,
led along the outside of this large place that he

points out to you that he refers to as the
furnace. "That is where the Charcoal Palace exists

"and the sultan of the entire city. We won't be
going there."

LAURA: The Chuckle Palace?

SAM: The Chocolate Palace.

MATT: "The Charcoal Palace. You are listening; you
are not supposed to speak."

LAURA: (whispers) I'm sorry.

LIAM: Like charcoal.

MATT: "Charcoal Palace." The air itself here, as
you're spending more time outside-- and the

interior of these buildings aren't meant to
detract heat or cool either. Most if not all of

the denizens here are well-tempered against the
heat. As you guys are being dragged along, I need

all of you who do not have fire resistance to go
ahead and make another constitution saving throw.

TALIESIN: Damn it.

TRAVIS: I'm a master of a good burn. Does that
give me fire resistance?

MATT: Nope! So I think that you don't have to
worry about it.

MARISHA: I had cast fire resistance on me.

MATT: Yes, and how long does that last?

MARISHA: It lasts an hour. Has it been an hour?

MATT: It's been about an hour now, so that's
past.

MARISHA: I'll recast.

MATT: Okay.

TALIESIN: I'm going to do a reroll.

SAM: This is a saving throw, or--?

MATT: A saving throw, yes. Constitution saving
throw.

SAM: Am I allowed to inspire myself on a saving
throw?

MATT: Only on ability checks, sorry.

SAM: 11.

MATT: 11, okay.

TALIESIN: 16.

MATT: All right. Vex?

LAURA: Oh, 15.

MATT: All right.

ASHLEY: Seven. I burn to death.

MATT: All of you manage for the most part to
resist the heat. Your sweat is starting to become

more of a prevalent downpour across your face.
Pike, you take a point of exhaustion.

ALL: Oh no!

ASHLEY: I'm just feeling so tired.

MATT: So you are currently at disadvantage on
ability checks.

MARISHA: The heat makes you lethargic.

TRAVIS: I'm very familiar with that.

LAURA: Well, it does.

MATT: Travis can work you through the exhaustion
levels.

TRAVIS: Yeah.

MATT: Heading past the buildings and constructs
you see these spires that come into these rounded

point towers all made from some colored glass,
some dark greens and blacks. You begin to see

there are deep, carved, and well-manufactured
waterways or what would be considered waterways in

other cities. Except here, the actual molten lava
from the Sea of Fire pours through. So there are

large bridges that lead over these constantly
bubbling and churning long aqueducts that are

filled with molten rock.

TRAVIS: In the ground or raised or--?

MATT: In the ground. Similar to how you see most
city aqueducts constructed, except for the Sea of

Fire spills into it. Anything going over there is
uncomfortable as the heat grows astronomically as

you pass over each bridge and the air itself
becomes more sulfurous. And you find yourselves

coughing autonomically as the fumes reach your
lungs. You begin to pass by--

LIAM: We're walking out in public at this point,
right? And there's people about? We see other

beings about?

MATT: You do. You see as the sun which--and you've
been here for two hours now so you have some time.

It's still very busy in the city. And as you pass
by, you see many efreet on their own business.

Some coasting at different levels of height, some
just traversing through. Occasionally you come

across strange, horned devil-like entities that
work, walk in clusters.

LIAM: So, question, because I put on the Ring of
Invisibility before we left.

MATT: Yes.

LIAM: But Senokir, I think, might have chuckled
when I gave my sister a wet willie. So as we're

walking, and I've got the ring on, as we pass
people I'm doing this and looking to see if anyone

is reacting to that.

MATT: No one else reacts except for Senokir. Who
looks back towards you with this--

(laughter)

TALIESIN: Oh, God, that face.

LAURA: Oh, no, he's so weird.

I can hear you moving around me.

LIAM: (fart noise)

LAURA: Blends in with the sulfur; I don't care.

MATT: Being led through the street you eventually
see two large, lithe gray-fleshed creatures that

stalk by with these large hooked tails that bend
over in front. You can see barbs sticking out of

parts of their body and they move in clusters of
three or four.

LAURA: Wait, were they walking on two feet or--?

MATT: Two feet. They're bipedal. And they're
stalking through--

SAM: Three feet.

TRAVIS: With like big-ass scorpion tails?

MATT: It resembles that. The more you push into
the city, the more diverse the populace becomes.

And you do see the occasional human, the
occasional elf, not being subjugated, though they

do usually carry some sort of a bodyguard or a
handful of servants at their side as well. But you

do see devils walking amongst the people here. And
many, many efreet that are all walking the streets

with large scimitars at their side and with a
uniform, a long silk vest of a dull grey charcoal

pattern. And it looks to be a pendant that hangs
around their neck that constantly churns with a

flame. And it's a uniform for each of these, and
you get the sense as they walk around singularly

or in pairs, that these probably act as the
patrol, as the guard of the city.

TRAVIS: Those that are walkin' around that don't
like have a bodyguard and don't seem to be

enslaved, are they still wearing that white and
gold cloak-y thing that our strange bit is

wearing?

MATT: No. They are very diverse in their attire.

TRAVIS: Really?

MATT: You get the sense that at least the outfits
they're wearing is their signature outfit. But you

also have a hard time grasping what the cultural
intricacies are of the City of Brass. Being that

you're Grog.

TRAVIS: Hey, man.

MATT: As you're passing by these various aspects--
do you have a question?

LAURA: Oh, I just wanted to whisper: Vax?

LIAM: (coughs)

LAURA: Can you pick these locks as we're walking?

LIAM: (softly) Yeah.

LAURA: Do it then. Subtly.

LIAM: I will stealthily pick my sister's locks.

MATT: Okay. As you guys are walking past, and at
this point Senokir is talking and he mentions off

to the side, "We are now passing the street of
artisans and the city market. This is what we call

"the Pyraklum. This is where we're going to find
Whaska. This is where we're going to find the

"Zenith Forge and hopefully the end of your
journey. But we can work out the specifics later."

As this is happening, I need you to make a sleight
of hand roll.

LIAM: Get behind Grog.

SAM: (whispers) Sleight of hand roll, boy!

LIAM: Well, I'm going to Luck that sucker.

LAURA: Oh, God.

LIAM: It doesn't matter, it doesn't matter. It's a
20.

MATT: Okay. Go ahead and make a lockpicking
check.

LIAM: Okay. Okay, that's fine as well. That's 25.

MATT: Okay. It takes you the better part of about
four or five blocks to very carefully, walking

with your sister, keeping in pace with her gait,
making sure not to rustle the chains or anything

to distract Senokir or Uten as they walk along--
and Uten is being very, you know, very careful

with his watch. Not just on you, but on the city
overall. It's not like they're, you know, honed in

on you per se, but very observant of the
atmosphere. And you get the sense that Uten

definitely, as far as the partnership goes, seems
to be the more paranoid of the two of them.

However as time goes on you eventually (click)
hear the gentle release of the lock on one of her

arm manacles and then slowly the other.

LIAM: As I trail backwards behind her you hear:
twins, motherfucker!

(laughter)

MATT: As you begin to approach a large black and
gray building built from heavy, heavy stones--

MARISHA: Can I talk to Uten a little bit while
we're walking?

TRAVIS: Is she picking your nose?

LIAM: I thought the same thing! It's a scratch, no
pick!

MARISHA: So, do you play tour guide often to
newcomers in this town?

MATT: Uten says, "It is not often that we take
newcomers under our wing like this. Usually they

"are either customers or, well, to be arrested
shortly. So, no, this is probably the first tour

"we've given. Senokir seems to strangely enjoy
it."

MARISHA: Playing tour guide?

MATT: "Apparently!" Motions over and Senokir,
other hand out, is like, "And around this way, you

"can see the Fenstral Spire, which is a wonderful
craft fair that happens once every two weeks!"

Uten goes back to you.

LAURA: He's making shit up as he's walking.

MARISHA: Seems he has quite a love for the City of
Brass. How long have you all been residents here?

MATT: "We've been in business together for about
the better part of ten years. I've only been here

"about 12. It was a very dangerous scavenge to
begin, but at least the laws of the normal world

"do not apply here. I have no idea how long
Senokir's been here. He keeps a lot to himself,

"that one, but I trust him."

MARISHA: And your business mainly deals in--

MATT: "Fine jewelry. I showed you our
establishment."

MARISHA: Well, as you mentioned, people ending in
arrest, are you bounty hunters?

MATT: "No! I must admit, our life is not as
interesting as you might be expecting, and I am

"sorry for that. I will say, probably should not be
talking so much right now."

MARISHA: Sure. Go, slaves! Walk! Forward! Like you
do!

TRAVIS: Why are you talking to us like that?

MARISHA: Because-- shut up, slave! And I smack
Grog with the flail.

MATT: Doesn't physically hurt, but emotionally,
there's a scar.

TRAVIS: I'm wounded! I've been gashed open!

MARISHA: Forward march! (whip crack)

TALIESIN: To be fair, he didn't say Oklahoma.

MARISHA: You never said Oklahoma.

TRAVIS: It's dangerous to keep a race car at a red,
I'm just saying, I'm a race car at a fucking red.

Pulp Fiction!

MATT: As you continue pushing forward, eventually
you come to that gray building with heavy gray and

dark stones. It's large, square in shape, and you
see an oversized chimney that bellows out constant

black smoke that pours upward into infinity. There
are a number of stacks like that throughout the

entirety of the city, hundreds that all eventually
bleed together as they all mingle and join in the

atmosphere, whatever this atmosphere is consisting
of. The large doors are partially open, they're

about 20 feet tall and about 20 feet as wide as
well. They are made from a very dark wood, but as

you get close, it's just a textured stone. You see
a dull light from the inside.

SAM: Where are we, Master?

MATT: "Welcome to the Zenith Forge. So, once we
enter, I would have to be the one to ask all the

"questions, but that would be difficult for us to
do. So the choice is yours. Either we try and find

"a careful way to funnel questions, or we put our
cards on the table and you do the talking."

MARISHA: Well, I can alter myself to look like
you, if you can hang back.

MATT: "You already look like Uten and other
compatriots. You can still speak, I just want to make

"sure that, well, our slaves don't talk out of
turn."

MARISHA: Sure.

TRAVIS: Have you spoken with a fire giant before?

MATT: "It's been a while. Since the upset
socially, I found it best to not deal with them

"outside of a customer-patron relationship."

TRAVIS: So weird. Are they good
conversationalists?

MATT: "They're curious."

ASHLEY: You seem a little bit nervous. I can't
really tell because you're so strange in a

wonderful way.

(laughter)

MATT: "You're sweet, little one."

ASHLEY: Thank you.

MATT: "They're very big."

ASHLEY: Okay.

MATT: "And consider that since they kept their
freedom, they're probably rather cunning."

ASHLEY: Bigger than him?

MATT: "You'll see."

ASHLEY: Oh.

MATT: As he begins to tug the chains and pull you
through the doorway.

SAM: Shit. What questions are we asking?

LAURA: I guess we have to ask, like, hey do you
have any cool collections? Do you play cards? Have

you won a lot? Stuff like that.

MARISHA: Yeah. What's going to make him give us
this thing anyway? Do we have anything to give him?

LAURA: Well, aren't we going to try and steal it
once we see it? Or are we really going to try and

purchase it?

TRAVIS: Maybe he's got beef with somebody in the
city and we'll go out and jack 'em up if he'll

tell us where--

LAURA: Or maybe if we see that he has it then we
can challenge him to a game of cards?

MARISHA: Or maybe-- oh!

SAM: If we see that he has it. How do we know that
he has it?

TRAVIS and MARISHA: Yeah, he might not have it.

LIAM: You could also chat with him and I could
walk over and take it.

MARISHA: Well maybe he won't know its value.

TRAVIS: It's a suit of armor, though.

LAURA: That he can't fit into because he's huge
and it's for normal people.

MARISHA: You still have your Locate Item,
correct?

LAURA: I do! Oh yeah!

SAM: Use it. Now!

LAURA: Okay! I use it.

TALIESIN: Now!

MATT: You're going to stop as you're being pulled
into the foyer of this building in chains, and

you're going to begin to cast the spell.

LAURA: Oh, do I have to stop? I can't do it as
we're walking?

MATT: I mean you can do it, it's a visual thing.

TALIESIN: We can hold him.

MARISHA: Senokir, hold?

TALIESIN: One moment!

MARISHA: Senokir?

MATT: "Yes?"

TALIESIN: We're going to--

MARISHA: Hang on, a little bit of preparation on
our end, if you don't mind.

MATT: "All right. Then decide. I mean, if you wish
to progress--"

LAURA: As he's talking I start doing it.

(laughter)

MATT: All right, it's really quick. And you
basically have to pull out your component from the

side there, it's a little twig and you snap it.
And you continue the ritual. All right. You

concentrate for a second as he's talking, and
currently no. You do not sense it.

LAURA: Okay. And that lasts for ten minutes?

MARISHA: But it can point us in the right
direction.

MATT: It lasts for up to ten minutes, yeah.

TRAVIS: Was it 1000 feet?

MATT: 1000 feet.

TRAVIS: Radius.

LAURA: Senokir, how large is the forge?

MATT: "Well, here it's a few rooms. It's large
enough to house Whaska and his servants to

"construct the crafts that they are good at."

TRAVIS: What do they construct?

MATT: "As far as I know, arms, armor. You see, fire
giants, they find their sense of self-worth in

"society by their craftsmanship. So it's a very
important thing for some."

TRAVIS: Right. Yeah. So, like, wheels? Or like
weapons? Arms? You said arms.

MATT: "I said arms."

TRAVIS: I have a hard time listening when you talk
like that.

MATT: "Would you like me to speak slower?"

TRAVIS: It might help, you know--

LAURA: No! That's all right.

TALIESIN: No. That's just fine.

MATT: "So. Are you to funnel questions, or do you
wish to ask as a troupe?"

TRAVIS and TALIESIN and LAURA: Funnel them.

MATT: "Then decide on your questions now, or
covertly speak once we enter. But we cannot stay

"here in the open and continue to talk long."

SAM: Three questions, quick.

TRAVIS: Yeah. Has he heard of the Dawnmartyr?

TALIESIN: We're looking for a suit of armor he may
have won in a card game.

LAURA: Yeah.

MARISHA: Looking--

TRAVIS: And maybe he didn't win it, but has he
seen it, heard of it--

LAURA: Right. Has he seen a suit of armor--

TALIESIN: --that vanished during a card game?

TRAVIS: Question two. Does he know where it may
be?

TALIESIN: It has great emotional value.

TRAVIS: And question three, if he doesn't want to
tell us where, is there someone that he has an

errand that he need run in exchange for--

MARISHA: Do we mention the Suutan bloodline or do
you think that would be bad blood? Is that bad?

TRAVIS: (singing) Hey maybe now we've got--

ALL: (singing) --bad blood!

LAURA: I don't know. Does Senokir think that that
would be bad?

MARISHA: Is it a bad idea to mention the Suutan
bloodline?

MATT: "I don't know."

(laughter)

MARISHA: I'm sorry, you just seem to know so much
about this fine city.

MATT: "I know enough. But I don't know of the
bloodline specifically. I've heard of it. You can

"certainly inquire within. That's why we're here!"

TRAVIS: Yeah, that's three! Has he heard of them,
does he know where it is and if he won't tell us,

does he need an errand run, and Suutan bloodline.

LAURA: Senokir, where are you from originally?

MATT: "These questions aren't pertinent at the
moment."

LAURA: That's true. I was just curious; you're so
interesting.

MATT: "Thank you. Now, shall we?"

MARISHA: Yeah.

TALIESIN: Yes, let's.

MATT: Gives a tug on the chain, leads you guys
inside.

MARISHA: Sorry, guys.

MATT: The interior is very dimly lit. Thankfully,
most of you have some form of darkvision. This is

an open, heavy hall where, in the distance, you
can see four different forges that are burning

simultaneously. They are being fed by a small
trail of the exterior sea of lava that is being

funneled into the back corner. Within, you can see
there is a large anvil in the center of the room

as well as a number of smaller anvils off to the
side. It appears to be four human-sized figures--

you can make out the shadow of them in the
darkness. They appear to be human or human-like

and they're in the process of moving things
behind. They have troughs of water so they can

quench the heated weapons. There at the center
anvil, you see a large, hulking figure standing.

Dark black leather apron across the torso,
currently holding with heavy tongs this large,

superheated piece of metal. Red sparks fly and
illuminate the room with one hit. The second

splash of light, as you see this piece of metal
being slowly rotated from side to side. It's

beaten into a heavier shape, the dark metal having
a bladed edge to it, the actual length of it

probably twice the size of Grog.

LIAM: What's the guesstimate on this fella's
height?

MATT: I'd say in the neighborhood of 20 feet. 16
to 20 feet from this vantage point.

LAURA: I guess he's the size of the zombie giants
we fought.

MARISHA: In Whitestone.

MATT: (hammering) "So? Go."

MARISHA: You want me to talk first? Yeah, no,
okay.

MATT: "Well, you're the one who wants to ask
questions."

MARISHA: Yeah. I got this.

TRAVIS and LAURA: Don't fuck it up.

MARISHA: Thanks, guys.

SAM: I'm hanging back behind Percy here.

MARISHA: Does this guy have a name, Senokir?

LAURA: Whaska.

MARISHA: Right. Sorry. Good day, fair Whaska.
Strong Whaska.

MATT: The last hit strikes the blade before the
hammer pulls back. The currently hunched and

focused fire giant suddenly pulls back, and is
standing. You see the glowing iron metal off the

side, gently gliding across the ground and
scraping the stone before it comes to rest at the

side. The giant stands at its full height. You can
see the heavily red bearded chin of itself gently

singed on the edges. The dark gray ash-like skin
of the face looks down at you, the eyes glowing

with piercing red dots through the shadow. "Yes?"

MARISHA: Hi. I am Keyleth of the Ashari druids.
Sorry. I was curious if I could ask you a few

questions and just take a moment of your time,
which I'm sure is very valuable.

MATT: The metal blade lifts and smacks the ground
with a resounding (ting) sound that rings. All the

other individuals working at the forges stop their
work and look up.

MARISHA: We promise we can make it worth your
time.

MATT: The giant looks back. Does this with his
hand, you hear the wind resistance across his

massive arm, and all the rest of the servants
gather their materials and begin to finish what

they're doing quickly and set them aside. As they
begin to go about finishing up their business,

Whaska takes the large, unfinished metal blade and
sets it onto the anvil, puts the tongs down with

this heavy, echoing clack in this large chamber.
The apron gets removed and tossed over the rest of

the materials and tools and walks up (slow, heavy
footsteps) and stands there looking straight down

at all of you, towering over your group, backlit
from the glow of the red forge hue behind him.

"You may ask your questions."

MARISHA: We are in search of a piece of armor,
something that holds great weight and many legends

behind it.

MATT: "Then I have probably made it." (chuckles)

MARISHA: Maybe you have. It is called the Plate of
the Dawnmartyr. Are you familiar with this?

MATT: His eyes squint a bit. "I am not familiar
with this. I did not make this armor you ask."

MARISHA: I don't believe it is from this realm,
but it resides here. It was won by a fire giant,

as yourself, in a game of cards.

MATT: "A game of cards?"

MARISHA: Or some call them card games.

(sighs and laughter)

MATT: "I may know who you would actually be
seeking."

MARISHA: Really? That would be phenomenal
information.

MATT: "This information that would lead you to
this powerful, legendary, sought-after armor you

"seek-- is it worth a lot to you?"

MARISHA: Well look, you shouldn't compare it to
you or the things you've made, right? I'm sure--

MATT: He crosses his arms. You hear the clatter of
the metal bracers he has on cling against each

other as his muscles tense.

MARISHA: Yes, it's very valuable for us to find
it! Yes.

MATT: "Then--" He begins to walk over to the side
(footsteps) grabs something in the shadow and you

hear this scraping sound (creak) of heavy wood
being dragged across stone as he lifts up and

slams in front of you a table. A little bit larger
height than you, you can look just above it, but

it's a relatively large table. (boom) "Then make
your offer."

MARISHA: I'm assuming you don't want me to--

TRAVIS: (coughs) Jewels.

MARISHA: Right. (quietly) Do we still have all
those jewels?

LAURA: Ask Senokir what he means.

MARISHA: I look at Whaska and I say: Let me confer
with my other masters. Hey, Senokir, what does he

want? What do you think is fair here?

MATT: "Well, usually as a craftsman, they want
something of their craft, perhaps."

MARISHA: Craft? They want something-- okay.

MATT: "Or you could always ask."

MARISHA: Sure. Yeah. I'll ask. Whaska!

MATT: "Yes?"

MARISHA: In speaking with my fellow masters, we
want to make sure we give you something that is

fair and desired. Is there anything that you might
have on your wish list?

MATT: He reaches forwards and rummages through a
small pouch that's affixed to the side of his

belt. When I say a small pouch, small by his
comparison, the pouch is about the size of you,

Keyleth, and as his fingers dig around inside you
hear the clanging of heavy metal and various other

objects slamming into each other. As he pulls out
some sort of strange, small cylinder, he lifts it

to his eye and peers through it.

MARISHA: Oh, he's looking to see what we got!

MATT: Scans through.

LAURA: Oh no!

MATT: "For servants you all walk with many
enchanted, powerful, and desirable affixions to

"yourselves."

MARISHA: You are a very intelligent and observant
man.

MATT: Puts away the cylinder into the pouch.

MARISHA: Giant, fire, respected fire giant.

MATT: "Offer me some of what you could give up.
And should it be worth the information you seek,

"it will be yours."

MARISHA: Let me once again confer with my masters
and enchanted servants. Okay, guys, what have we got?

TALIESIN: I've got a Ring of Lightning
Resistance.

LAURA: Don't you have a lot of fucking weapons in
your Bag of Holding?

TRAVIS: They're just normal weapons. There's a
Greatsword of Frenzy, but--

LAURA: That's not bad. Greatsword of Frenzy!

MARISHA: Yeah, Greatsword of Frenzy, yeah.
Whatever. And you said, a ring?

TALIESIN: I've got a Ring of Lightning
Resistance.

TRAVIS: Oh! My war mask! My war helmet.

MARISHA: It's not magical, though.

SAM: You built that thing!

LAURA: Oh, that's right, the helmet.

TRAVIS: It's crafted, though. It's like--

SAM: But it's so ugly.

LAURA: Yeah, but it's hideous. And they said they
didn't do it very well.

TALIESIN: We did okay.

TRAVIS: It's inscripted. It's got my title on the
inside.

MARISHA: I've got my magic choker.

SAM: That won't even fit his thumb!

TALIESIN: I would put it on Pinterest. Maybe we
could tell him it's a thimble. We could tell him

it's a handcrafted thimble.

LIAM: How high up is that side?

MATT: It's about eight feet up.

TRAVIS: Don't fucking-- don't even.

LIAM: All right, that's pretty tall, that's pretty
high.

MATT: Yeah, you'd have to leap for that, man.
You're not pickpocketing a giant without some high

rolls. Mind you, you can certainly try. I would
love for you to try.

TRAVIS: Got to feed those forges with something!

MARISHA: Okay. I have a Ring of Protection +1 that
no one's been using because it's just a Ring of

Protection +1. Which is good, by the way.

TALIESIN: And I have the Ring of Lightning
Resistance.

LIAM: I have two Vestiges.

LAURA: Do you want to try this Greatsword of
Frenzy?

MARISHA: Yeah, let's do the Greatsword.

TRAVIS: What about the Alchemy Jug?

TALIESIN: No!

LIAM: No way!

TRAVIS: Which we have used-- what?

LAURA: Doesn't matter, it's too cool! You make
mayonnaise out of that all the time!

MARISHA: And I have my +1 magic necklace.

TALIESIN: Are you using that?

MARISHA: No.

TALIESIN: Okay.

MATT: You hear the heavy foot taps of an
impatient--

MARISHA: Okay, all right. Here's what I'm going to
do. I'm going to take the Greatsword and the Ring

of Lightning Resistance and put it on the table.

MATT: Can someone run that to me real fast, if you
don't mind?

SAM: Coming!

TALIESIN: (hums "Yakety Sax")

MARISHA: I'm glad we didn't sell any of this stuff
over the course of time.

MATT: So you take the big Greatsword and (crash)
put it on there, and take the ring, place it up

there with it. Both of his large, meaty fire giant
hands grasp the side of the table as he leans down

and looks them over very intently. Takes the
blade, holds it in his hands. "This is a very good start."

MARISHA: Oh, yeah. Well, lucky you! I also happen
to have this awesome Magic Choker +1.

TRAVIS: Choker? Did you offer the fire giant a
fucking choker?

TALIESIN: He can wear it as a pinkie ring.

MARISHA: I also offered him a tiny ring. He's
going to use it.

TALIESIN: It's going to be like a little eyebrow
piercing.

MATT: As you place it there, he glances at it for
a second. The little, burning pupils of the giant

look up towards you. "It was a strong start. Not a
very strong follow up." As he leans back up, he says--

MARISHA: Wait! That's a two-for-one deal, because
it also comes with this Ring of Protection. You

just hadn't let me get that far yet.

TRAVIS: Arms, arms!

LAURA: He doesn't want jewelry, he wants arms!

MARISHA: Oh, he wants arms, right. It's a Ring of
Protection. That's cool.

LAURA: Yeah, but it's not weapons.

MATT: He seems unmoved by the presentation of the
ring. He says, "You are to make one more offer. If

"you do not, I will tell the Illuminated of the
dubious outsiders masquerading as servants. Slaves

"sent to undermine the rule of the The Grand Sultan
of the Efreet, The Lord of the Flame, The

"Potentate Incandescent, The Tempering and Eternal
Flame of Truth, The Most Puissant of Hunters,

"Marshall of the Order of the Fiery Heart, The
Smoldering Dictator, The Crimson Firebrand Marrake

"al-Sidaan al-Hariq ben Lazan."

TRAVIS: God bless you.

MATT: "So. What is your final offer?"

MARISHA: Was that one man's resume?

TRAVIS: Vax, give him all of your Vestiges!

(laughter)

MARISHA: What if we give him some of the dragon
scales?

TRAVIS: What about the black sapphire?

LAURA: I mean, we do have dragon scales. We do
have a fuck-ton of dragon scales.

SAM: But he wants arms!

MARISHA: Hang on! Whaska! A great craftsman such
as yourself deserves only the finest of materials.

How about some (whispers) dragon scales?
Dragonhide? White dragon, what kind of dragonhide?

White dragonhide.

MATT: One large hard raises up, and begins to tug
at the edge of his beard.

MARISHA: A lot of white dragonhide. I think we
even have a fair amount.

TRAVIS: Leave it.

LAURA: Just let it go.

MATT: "Make your offer."

LAURA: Get it out of the bag of holding.

MATT: His finger taps the edge of the table.

SAM: Put it on the table, people.

LAURA: Give him, like, 40 pounds of white
dragonhide.

MARISHA: Yeah, he needs a lot. He's gonna have a big
loincloth. A really big loincloth.

TALIESIN: That's going to be weird.

TRAVIS: 40 pounds of white dragonhide.

LAURA: Right? Can we do it like that?

MATT: Yeah. You go ahead and unveil and put 40
pounds of white dragonhide--

MARISHA: I want to make sure it's like, "One, two,
three, four, five--" Five minutes later, "37--"

LAURA: But it's better if it's one big piece, as
opposed to a bunch of tiny little pieces.

MATT: You manage to pull all of the hide out. With
flourish. As you finish, Whaska's mouth turns into

this wide grin, as his arms go out (thump) scoop
it all to his end of the table. "Your respect will

"be remembered." He takes the handfuls of it, and
the sword, puts the rings into the pouch, takes

the sword and jams it into his belt, takes the
hide, and walks over to the side and opens this

large chest. Throws everything into the side of
it. Closes it. And begins to walk over. As he

walks away from it you hear this heavy metal click
when he's about 15, 20 feet from the chest. He

steps to the table. "Now--" He then rests his
elbows on the table, folding his hands under his

chin, leaning forward towards you, and looks over
the rest of the troupe. "There are two other fire

"giants here. One is Sugan. Sugan, well, was the
brains behind our positions. I have this foundry

"and this forge because Sugan led us against our
people. He currently enslaved most of our kin,

"with my help, and with the help of Juuraiel, and
her late husband, Guras. Sugan, he currently

"resides within the foundry itself, as a respected
chain lord to the rest of his kind. Do not speak

"to Sugan. You seek Juuraiel. Juuraiel runs a
powerful slag mine in the pits. Her home is

"outside the Shrine to Surtr, called the Smoking
Hammer Shrine. Look for the spiraling tower of

"black iron and copper. If there is any problems--"
And he reaches back, and pulls forward a small,

square, metal icon. And he flicks it over towards
you. It looks like a small piece of copper in his

thumb. But as he flicks it in your direction, you
reach out instinctively to grab it, Keyleth, and

then realize, "Oh, shit!" And you have to back out
of the way as it (loud thud). Roughly the size of

a manhole cover.

MARISHA: It's a ring?

MATT: It's a large piece of square metal. You look
at it and it has a series of runes that you

recognize as being Giant imprinted into the metal.
"This will grant you respect and conversation with

"Juuraiel. Should she show any resistance, just
tell her I gave it to you."

MARISHA: Thank you. I go over and I start trying
to (grunts) pick it up.

MATT: Make a strength check.

(laughter)

TRAVIS: Use your legs. Bend the knees.

TALIESIN: Oh, no!

LIAM: Pull a hammie?

MARISHA: Eight total.

MATT: You can get it a few inches off the ground--

MARISHA: Or just a check, right? Just a straight
check?

MATT: Yeah, just with your modifier.

MARISHA: Okay, then five.

MATT: You get it a few inches off the ground
before it (crashing sound) hits the ground with a

resounding clang.

MARISHA: (hisses in pain)

MATT: Almost got your finger, but you're fine.

MARISHA: Okay.

TRAVIS: Do you want me to?

MARISHA: Yeah.

TRAVIS: C'mon, Beast Mode!

LAURA: You're so strong, Pike.

ASHLEY: I'll give it a try.

SAM: C'mon, Pike! Lift that thing!

LAURA: Get it!

ASHLEY: Oh, definitely not. Just doesn't even
move. That's a seven.

MATT: Between the two of you, given about five
minutes, you guys could eventually carry it.

MARISHA: You wouldn't happen to have a wallet
version, would you? Don't worry about it!

TALIESIN: Can we put it in the Bag of Holding?

MATT: Grabs the table and moves it back to the
space he got it. (thunderous claps) "Our business

"is done. Good luck. And should you find yourself
in any trouble, you never heard my name." Turns

back to the anvil, slowly puts on the apron, and
goes right back to work. (metal ringing) Holds the

metal over into the large furnace to the side to
let it glow to a brighter orange, to white at the

tip, and begins hammering once more. As you guys
gather the rest of your strength to pull that

along with you.

LAURA: Sexiest fire giant I ever did see.

LIAM: Who was that?

MATT: There is this awkward pause. Whaska stops
and looks over.

(laughter)

TRAVIS: She's touched. Just don't worry about
her.

MARISHA: Oh, Whaska! Is it okay if I ask one last
question?

MATT: "Depends on the question. What do you
ask?"

MARISHA: How do fire giants feel about the
name, the Suutan-- Oh, wait. I already asked him

that. Never mind. You know what, been a huge help.

(laughter)

TRAVIS: You're not going to fist-bump, or
anything?

MATT: (metal ringing) Goes right back to
hammering.

SAM: Have you heard of the Plate of the
Dawnmartyr?

MARISHA: Is it too late to roll an insight check
to make sure he was telling us the whole story?

MATT: You could roll one now to gain his current
composure while he's hammering the large sword.

MARISHA: That's pretty good. 25.

MATT: He seems focused on his work and cares less
about your presence now than he did when you

entered.

TRAVIS: How heavy is that thing?

MARISHA: You know, it's more 
cumbersome? It's awkward.

SAM: Doesn't have handles.

MARISHA: It's very wide. I can't really--

SAM: Like picking up a box.

MARISHA: Yes. But it's not that heavy.

TRAVIS: You guys are doing a great job with that,
really.

MARISHA: Thank you.

TALIESIN: It's like a piece of pre-packaged Ikea
furniture.

MATT: Yeah.

MARISHA: How is it they didn't design this to fit
into a car.

MATT: As Keyleth and Pike carry it along at an
angle because of height difference.

ASHLEY: Got to take a second to switch hands.

MATT: Wait, wait, oh oh oh!

MARISHA: You walk backwards.

TALIESIN: We bought the new bed frame. It's called
the "Nupe."

TRAVIS: No you go first, you go first.

ASHLEY: I'll go backwards, I'll go backwards.

TRAVIS: Turn it over!

MARISHA: Are you okay going down the stairs? Okay,
okay.

ASHLEY: Okay.

(clanging sound effects)

LIAM: As we leave, I give the saddest puppy stare
to that wallet on the side of his belt and wish

upon a star. And then I leave.

MATT: All right. You guys make your way out into
the main thoroughfare. Senokir turns back. "Very

"well. I know where this shrine is, so follow me."

LAURA: (imitates Senokir) Great. We will.

ASHLEY: (imitates Senokir) Great.

TRAVIS: (whispers) Weird.

MATT: "Are you mocking me?"

LAURA: What? What are you talking about?

MATT: "Right. Continue, please." Pulls the chains
a little bit.

TRAVIS: (choking noise)

MATT: An extended period of time to make it
towards where the mines and the pits are for the

next hour or so, walking through the streets. As
you're heading in this northward direction, you

pass by a series of intersections where a lot of
these lava rivers merge and splinter off. You can

see there are individuals that are taking elements
of it and carrying off large metallic buckets. You

also notice in the distance one very
terrifying-looking structure. All the rest have

this beautiful, grandiose design to them. There is
one that looks like it is made of curved obsidian

spikes, like a series of giant, clawed hands
climbing up over themselves. It forms a bastion in

the center of the city. This is on the outskirts
of the furnace that you walked past or saw in the

distance when you first left Senokir's
establishment. Pressing beyond that, you notice

that there is a heavy number of nasty-looking
devilish entities that seem to be running patrol

around the outside of that building. You get the
essence that there's a heavy devil presence in the

City of Brass. Devils of multiple kinds, you
gather. Many you've never seen before. But they

seem to be gathering around and have that same
terrifying essence to them. You see some that are

humanoid, but covered in long chains with hooks at
the end, dragging on the ground behind them. You

see some that are these nasty little impish
looking creatures that leap from section to

section and usually travel in packs. But they all
have business; they carry small satchels at their

side. They mingle with the rest of the efreet and
the other denizens of the city unmolested,

unbothered, unprovoked.

LIAM: I wave at a couple. Quietly.

MATT: From a distance, you're not getting 
too close. No one seems to pay mind.

LAURA: Senokir, what is that place?

MATT: "That is the embassy. We shouldn't go by
there."

TRAVIS: Why? What's in the embassy?

MATT: "Well, that's where the ambassadors to the
Nine Hells reside."

TRAVIS: Right. Nine. That's a lot.

MARISHA: Is it like a cityscape?

SAM: We have diplomatic immunity.

TRAVIS: Senokir, did that exchange go about the
way you thought it would?

MATT: "Sure."

(laughter)

TRAVIS: Good.

LIAM: This guy likes to party.

MATT: As you continue, eventually you come upon
the outside of this beautiful temple that is made

of hundreds of heavy, dark iron and metal hammers
that are all molded together in this mish-mash

that forms this giant archway. As you walk past
it, Senokir pipes up again, "And that is the

"Smoking Hammer Shrine that was spoken of. Which
means--" And he points over to the right. There

you can see-- it resembles a home that is conical in
its advancement. It's thick at the base, and it

spirals upward, made of black metallic substance.
Rough around the edges, like it's been pushed

together, similar to the shrine you saw. But it's
this spiral that continues upward. This very thick

spiral that quickly tapers off into a point. You
see there are levels to it, and there appear to be

openings and windows. This is an abode of some
kind. A very massive abode, and to a certain

extent one of the more impressive buildings you've
seen in this immediate vicinity.

LAURA: Big enough for a giant to live in?

MATT: Easily. As you get to the front of the
building, there are no windows that lead to the

bottom floor. There is one very heavy door that is
a half-circle. You're not sure how, where, or from

which direction it opens, but it is this big,
round, metal slab that stands there at the front.

You do see a brass knob in the center of it, that
is roughly about eye-height to you, Grog. And

that's the extent of it. As you approach, Senokir
turns around, "So I believe we've found our way to

"the home of Juuraiel, as you acquired the
information about. Your turn."

MARISHA: Yes, we know. Sorry.

MATT: "So? What is your intent here?"

SAM: Well, gang. I don't feel like we should say
the name of the thing that we want, in case she

doesn't know what it is?

LAURA: Maybe describe it? I feel like the more we
make it seem like it's valuable to us, the more

they're going to ask in return. So maybe make it
seem less valuable?

LIAM: She won it in a card game and hung it on the
wall as a decoration.

LAURA: She could think it's a fucking trinket. It
could be like nothing. It could be like a

candlestick.

TRAVIS: Do I know if giants have any natural
enemies that they hate?

MATT: Other giants. Well, they have, depending on
the type of giant, many natural enemies, usually

that exist within the topography they're used to.
You only really know about stone giants in the

Cliffkeep. And maybe hill giants. There is no
specific, sworn, vengeful enemies to the stone

giants that you're aware of.

TRAVIS: Did he say that Sugan, being the brains of
the two, enslaved other giants?

MATT: You got the essence that there was
a large coup. There was a larger free

citizenship of fire giants that existed within the
city. Through some circumstance, these three

currently remaining giants sold the rest of their
kind within the city into slavery or had them

ousted. The three that did so elevated their
social status and became more powerful

figures within the City of Brass.

TRAVIS: I think you might have to play him in a
game of cards.

SAM and MARISHA: Yeah.

SAM: Wait, Keyleth will?

MARISHA: No. I will not.

LAURA: Scanlan will.

MARISHA: That's a Scanlan or a Percy thing.

SAM: Me?!

TRAVIS: (singing) You're a hustler, baby!

LIAM: I don't want to do anything. I want you to
win this in a game of cards. But I'll be a plan B.

They're not going to see me.

TALIESIN: If you have the magic still, we could
find out precisely where the armor is.

MARISHA: That's true. That spell lasts for ten
minutes, the Locate Item spell.

LAURA: So I'd have to cast it again. I only have
one more level two spell because I don't have very

many spells.

MARISHA: I can cast it, because I shouldn't speak
here.

TRAVIS: You did so good, though.

MARISHA: Thanks!

TRAVIS: Oh, fair fire giant! Fair? Hammering at an
anvil. 20 feet tall. Oh, fair, gentle fire giant!

MARISHA: Oh, giant. My fair giant.

TRAVIS: Do we do the spell when we get up there,
or now?

LAURA: Do it now, because it's 1,000 feet.

MARISHA: I'll cast Locate Item.

MATT: All right. As you go and pull up your
component, you snap a twig.

MARISHA: No one's around and going to maim me,
right?

MATT: You take a moment to wait until there's no
immediate approaching individuals that might see

it. As far as spells go, it still requires a lot
of physical action, but you can keep it condensed.

As soon as you finish, you feel the immediate
glowing beacon of your intent within that

structure.

MARISHA: It's here.

TALIESIN: Is it on the ground floor? Or does it
feel like it's above us?

MATT: It appears to be maybe 25 feet up from where
you currently are at an angle, on the inside of

the building.

MARISHA: It's going to be right on the inside,
hanging on the wall.

TRAVIS: Can't Vax do some Spider-Man shit and
check out the windows? He's all invisible.

SAM: It's risky.

TRAVIS: Why? If he falls, nobody will see it.
We'll just hear it.

LIAM: Yeah! And then you pretend like you
tripped!

MARISHA: Are there really high windows?

MATT: There are no windows on the bottom floor. On
the second floor up, there are, yes. Which is

about 40 feet up.

LAURA: No, it's definitely on the first floor.

MARISHA: They're 20 feet high, so, high up.

LAURA: That's what it is. It's on the first floor,
up high.

LIAM: So let me go.

SAM: Yeah, dude! This is what you do!

LAURA: He just said there were windows on the
second floor.

LIAM: I'm already climbing. Would this be
acrobatics?

MATT: For climbing, this would be athletics.

LIAM: Athletics. Dang it, Bobby. That's a 16.

MATT: Dang it, Bobby! All right. Thanks to the
rough construction of this building, it isn't too

difficult to find handholds, though there are
certain moments where you have to leap and catch

to get there. It takes you probably the better
part of 15 minutes to eventually get up to that

area. The first opening you see, even though it's
a window, is an oval porthole in the side of that

structure. As you glance inside, getting your arm
up in there, you are inside a servants' quarters,

but even the servants' quarters are very large.
It's simple. You see two beds in there, but the

beds are 30 feet long, 20 feet wide with various
hides and furs that have been patched together in

this quilt-like fashion, but haphazard in their
stitching. Other than that, it's not very pretty.

LIAM: I think there might be a lot of giants
potentially in here at any one time.

MATT: You see two very large metallic pissing pots
that currently reside at the edge of each bed.

LAURA: Eww, you could take a swim in it!

(disgusted noises)

MATT: Were you so inclined, you definitely could.

LIAM: But nobody in here now?

MATT: Nobody in here now, no.

LIAM: Are there any other windows along from where
I am? I know they would be a ways off.

MATT: It's a ways off to the next one, but you could
try to climb over if you'd like to.

LIAM: Yeah.

MATT: I need you to make another athletics check
for me.

LIAM: That's a 19.

MATT: You slowly shimmy over. While the rest of
you guys are waiting, as you're sitting there, you

can't see what's happening; you occasionally see a
pebble (thunk) and a bit of dust fall. Senokir's

like, "Well, how about we walk around for a moment,
so we aren't looking weirdly in public doing

"nothing."

SAM: You're right. If you think we're looking
weird, we should trust that.

MATT: "Well said." Tugs the chain, and you guys
begin to be dragged in a heavy circle around the

nearby street.

MARISHA: I radio over the earpiece to Vax and say,
hey, we're going to walk the block.

LIAM: Yeah cool, I'm just hanging.

MATT: All right. You leap over, grasping, lose
your hand for a second, and get back up there. The

soreness is starting to kick in; you're not used
to this much physical activity of this type of

strength, and it's kicking your ass.

LIAM: So fast, but so weak.

MATT: So fast, but so weak. It's already hot here,
and the beads of sweat are pouring down your face at

this point.

LIAM: I have little indoor fans, like I'm a
baseball mascot.

MATT: Yeah, basically. Thankfully you have fire
resistance so you don't have to worry about the

heat getting too much on you. It's more of the
physical exertion that's getting you. You do

eventually pull over to the next window. As you
get to it, you pull up into the lip, and as you

reach out to grab, your hand hits something. You
look up, and you see that this particular opening

has an imperfect, thick glass window or at least a
glass surface that is currently blocking the

entrance. This is actually a window that is
closed.

LIAM: Is it transparent?

MATT: Somewhat transparent, yes.

LIAM: So it's just cloudy?

MATT: It's somewhat opaque, because of the nature
of its creation it wasn't perfect glass. It's

about that thick, and the entire oval is about six
feet high, and about four feet wide.

LIAM: Can I check for traps?

MATT: Sure, go for it. Make an investigation
check.

LIAM: Okay, oh good, 27.

MATT: All right. This window is trapped. As you
glance around, you can see that it is. It is a

window that has a slot on the side. The glass is
wider than the window in a slot that's pulled up

through chains that you gather would probably lift
it from the inside, like a winch that would pull

it open or closed. However, on the bottom, you can
see along the edge. On the very bottom edge, you

can see some sort of slight bit of material that
doesn't match both the glass or the blackened iron

structure of this building. It's a silver plate
that rests where the glass sits down. As soon as

it would move, a weight would shift, and something
would happen.

LIAM: Looking at it, do I think I could disarm it
from this side? Or is it something from the inside

of the room?

MATT: It would need to be something from the
inside. Even if you were to attempt to do it from

the inside, you would have to be at the base of
the structure. From this side, it's too big for

you to do anything, really.

LIAM: Okay, and I can't see shit.

MATT: Make a perception check.

LIAM: Natural 20.

MATT: Which gives you a total of?

LIAM: Oh, perception? A total of 32.

MATT: All right. As you peer in and close your eye
on the inside, you can see another bedroom similar

to the one over there that you just passed by. But
this one is exorbitant in its decor. You see

beautiful deep red tapestries along each wall that
are the full length of it. The bed itself is a

canopy bed that is 40 feet tall with heavy dark
silks and fabrics that dangle from it. This is a

gaudy bedroom for some sort of a giant.

LIAM: Any armor on the walls?

MATT: No armor visible from this perspective, no.
You do see small pieces of art. There are other

metallic trinkets that are built into the wall.
But nothing that resembles armor, unfortunately.

LIAM: Well, my arms are starting to do this thing
so I'm going to start going down.

TALIESIN: There's a giant velvet Elvis.

MATT: You eventually make your way down and wait
for the rest of your group to return. You guys had

a nice awkward walk being led quietly through the
street and back around.

TRAVIS: Can we be the monks from Monty Python?

TALIESIN: Pie Iesu Domine. Dona Eis Requiem.

MATT: As you guys begin chanting to yourselves,
Senokir goes, "Actually... sure, go ahead," and

keeps pulling you along as you guys chant in
whatever phrases you decide upon. You come back

around and you see the rest of them arriving at
the door, although they cannot see you. Senokir

does glance over in your direction. "Ah, it appears
that our walk was just enough time."

LAURA: Oh shit, you can see him?

MATT: "I have my ways, yes."

ASHLEY: What kind of ways?

MATT: "Your brother is a fun character."

LAURA: You mean a dick?

MATT: "From your standards, yes. Being from where
I'm standing, I find it hilarious." (clipped laughter)

TRAVIS: Oh god, his laugh's the worst.

MATT: "Now shall we?"

ASHLEY: Let's?

SAM: We don't even know how this door works. What
if it's like a DeLorean and flips up or something?

LAURA: Do you know how to open this door?

ASHLEY: Do we just knock?

MATT: "Well, let's try. I have not been here."
Just knocks on it. It barely makes a noise.

TRAVIS: Sounds like bubbles popping.

MATT: It's like the knuckle against the stonework;
it's making this dull, awful sound. Nothing.

TRAVIS: Should I knock? Do you want me to knock,
or do you just want me to knock?

SAM, TALIESIN, and MARISHA: Knock.

TRAVIS: Which one was that, I don't know.

(laughter)

SAM: The big one.

TRAVIS: Okay. Can I lean back and slug the door
using siege?

MATT: Yes, you can. Go ahead and roll an attack.
No weapon bonus though, just your strength.

TRAVIS: Yeah, so that's a 15.

MATT: Okay. So that's your strength bonus and your
proficiency modifier?

TRAVIS: Not my proficiency modifier.

MATT: So that would be 20. You reach back (heavy
impact) and you watch as his hand hits the section

where the engraved metal door is, dents inward,
and leaves this big heavy dent in the front and

the impact is like a dull thunderous clap of
lightning. You hear it echo on the inside.

ASHLEY: It's engraved with something?

MATT: There was some very faint texture or pattern
to it. Yeah, a design that was built into it.

TRAVIS: Knuckles. By the way, can I see that
manhole cover you guys have been carrying around

this whole time?

MARISHA: Yeah, sure.

TRAVIS: It's got Giant runes on it. Runes of
Giant.

MARISHA: Help me. Hey, Pike, can you help prop it
up on that side?

TRAVIS: Do I recognize any of these runes?

MATT: You recognize it's Giant. You cannot read.

TRAVIS: Yep. This is very important script. It
says that you must carry this at all times, and if

you let it go prematurely you will die.

MARISHA: What?

ASHLEY: I don't think he's telling the truth.

TALIESIN: Better safe than sorry, though.

MATT: Grog, make a deception check.

ASHLEY: We'll hold it.

TRAVIS: Natural 20!

MARISHA: What! Bullshit! Goddamn it.

MATT: Which is a grand total of?

TRAVIS: It's a grand total of 21.

MATT: Keyleth, Pike, I need you guys to both roll
insight checks.

TALIESIN: This is the first time that actual
Travis has really leaked into Grog.

LAURA: Yeah, no shit.

MARISHA: Natural one!

TALIESIN: Wow.

TRAVIS: The stars are aligning.

ASHLEY: That's a 14.

MATT: Okay. Suddenly, as Grog says this, you
realize, him being of giant kin and the

seriousness in his eyes, and the stark intensity
in the way he describes this: If you drop this,

something terrible is going to happen!

MARISHA: Pike, I need to readjust my grip! Here, I
want to put it on my back.

ASHLEY: Grog, maybe you should hold it then
because we're not as strong as you.

MARISHA: Yeah, I don't want to drop it. Will it
kill all of us? Is it a blast radius thing?

TRAVIS: The fable goes on to say that if you hand
it to one of your friends, you will shit

everywhere. Immediate bowel loss. Green apple
splatters all over your feet, just awful.

ASHLEY: That doesn't sound true.

TRAVIS: The giant tales are to be respected.

MATT: You probably don't believe the second half, 
but you do believe the first half.

TRAVIS: It is a fable.

SAM: So it could be metaphor.

ASHLEY: Safe than sorry, we'll just hold
it.

MATT: It's at this point you hear this (thunk) and
you hear this heavy, low (clicking) as the sound of

chains being tightened and winding forward are
followed by the large doorway rising up.

LAURA: Oh, it lifts!

LIAM: Does it get stuck with the dent?

MATT: You watch as it rises, and there is
a small carved slit where the knob itself rises up

and fits as the door entirely lifts into the
structure leaving the front walkway open and there

standing, you see with arms off to the side
apparently finishing the rotation of this chain--

SAM: A wench.

MATT: No, you see two male fire giants, fully
armored with large blocky black metal swords

staring down at you from each side.

MARISHA: What are they wearing?

MATT: They are both wearing dark plated scale
mail, and both of them have

these black bands of metal across their neck that
have a small, pulsing red gem in the center.

SAM: But Matthew, are they fuckable, though? 
Those guards? Would you do them?

MATT: Scanlan, that's up to you, man. 
You've done some freaky shit in

your time. Although in this circumstance you'd be
the gerbil.

SAM: I'm the gerbil.

MARISHA: Lemmiwinks!

MATT: You are Lemmiwinks in this. If you want to
gain some experience, that's up to you.

TALIESIN: And really interesting fanart.

MATT: Anyway. They both stand there expectantly,
saying nothing.

TRAVIS: Is this where we let the master do the
talking?

MARISHA: We're here to speak with Juuraiel.

MATT: There's a small pause. You hear a voice echo
from further back in the room, though you see no

source for it, "What is your business with this
Juuraiel?"

MARISA: We have a deal we'd like to make. We have
a token of our-- We want to play cards?

MATT: Make a persuasion check.

MARISHA: Oh Jesus.

TRAVIS: Why are you talking? Persuasion check?

MARISHA: I'm the only one not in chains! I'm the
only one who can! It's bullshit!

LAURA: You could have made any of us look like
not--

MARISHA: No, I can't. It's only a self spell or
else I would've. Oh, that's not too bad.

Persuasion? 18.

MATT: There's a pause and you hear a few heavy
footfalls, getting louder as they go. Emerging

from around the side, you see now a tall,
broad-shouldered, female fire giant with a very

strong square jaw. Her hair is pulled into this
long red braid that dangles past her lower back

and you can see it drifting behind her with this
large metal ring that it's braided into at the

bottom. She's not wearing any armor at the moment,
just wearing casual clothes, and these clothes are

lined with gold and platinum. This is a very
expensive ware that she has on, as well as rings

that encrust both of her hands. As she steps
forward and looks out towards you. "So you want to

"play cards and make a deal you say?"

MARISHA: I lift with Pike the big manhole cover.

MATT: She reaches over and grabs it, from both of
you.

TRAVIS: The fables were a lie!

ASHLEY: We're safe.

MATT: She glances over it, and puts it over in her
hands. "So, you have spoken with Whaska?"

MARISHA: Yes.

MATT: "Okay, I will hear what you have to say.
Let's hear your deal. Let them in!" She turns

around and walks across to the end of the room, as
the two giants step to the side, removing their

crossed swords from the entryway that scrape
across the stone. And you may enter the premises.

LAURA: I want to look around immediately, all the
walls.

MATT: Make a perception check.

LIAM: 25.

LAURA: 29.

MATT: As you guys walk in this central chamber, the
foyer, if you will, it's beautiful. The use of

autumn colors mixed with various golds and
metallics to create this archway that is a band of

brass, a band of gold, a band of platinum, a band
of brass, and repeats itself onward. It has this

tunnel-like feel, and within each of these walls,
there are a number of weapons. Large, giant-sized

weapons that are bolted into the wall and have
beautiful runes inscribed within, and wooden

plaques on the bottom that contain language that
only you recognize, but can't read. There are

shelves that contain large books that are locked
up behind glass and chains roped across it. This

is a collection. This is like a small personal
museum. To your size, it is huge. To Juuraiel's

size, it's like a nice den.

LIAM: Are there any pieces of armor with a sun on
it?

MATT: As you guys continue inward, there is a
large desk on the opposite side, as well as a few

comfortable chairs off to the sides and a
staircase that spirals upward to a second floor.

There are very bright red burning torches that the
flame itself would be a heavy bonfire by

comparison to any of you. It burns and licks the
edge of the interior without any damage done to

the beautiful construct of the foyer. This desk at
the end, which she has now walked around and sat

on the opposite side, is made up of beautiful dark
green wood and has gold leaf designs all throughout

the legs. Everything here speaks of projected
affluence. Juuraiel, this fire giant you have come

across, makes a statement with her wealth, with
everything she presents. The other two giants that

you saw at the entryway, who had the binding on
their necks, close the door behind them, place

their weapons up leaning against the wall, and
both lumber behind you as you walk in, slowly

keeping watch as you progress inward.

Juuraiel raises her finger and says, "Could
you please bring a means of my guests to speak eye

"to eye?" And the two giants diverge slightly, both
grab two of the chairs and scoot them in, up to

the edge of the desk. These chairs are about head
height to both of you at the resting point, so

you'll have to climb up into them, and then
probably get to be up at the desk level.

LIAM: The cards are going to be like giant novelty
cards.

TRAVIS: Can I ask a question? In my bag, I have
two vials of fox's cunning. Is that a potion?

MATT: Yeah.

TRAVIS: Can I drink one?

MATT: If you'd like to.

TRAVIS: It's so hot outside! I'm so thirsty! I
would like just a sip. I had it made because I'm

an idiot. Just in case the sewer plate says "eat
these and enjoy" or something.

LAURA: Yeah. She already took it, though. I'm
looking at the walls at around 20 to 25 feet. Do I

see it, up high on the ceiling? Because I've been
looking.

MATT: As you guys get to the desk itself, on the
back wall behind the desk, above her shoulder, you

see a beautiful ruby shield that refracts the
light in the room. It's roughly, from head to toe,

Grog's size. It's pointed at the bottom and rises
up almost like it's designed to look like a flame.

It has this uneven, flickering, frozen in time of
the construct of the top of the shield. On the

other side of her other shoulder, you see, much
smaller in size, but a beautiful set of-- make

sure I get the description right on this--
beautiful brass armor with priceless cut rubies

all across the rest of the silver inlay of the
armor itself.

LAURA: You're going to be blinging out; we got to
get it!

LIAM: How many feet up the wall?

MATT: It is about 25 to 30 feet up the wall. It's
up where it's resting about the top height of the

shield, so there's an even point and it's about
five feet down from the ceiling.

LAURA: Should we let just Keyleth and Senokir up
on the chairs?

SAM: I would like a seat at the table, if that's
all right?

MARISHA: Let me get us out of this. Juuraiel? Do
you mind if we speak candidly and dispose of our

guises that led us here?

MATT: "But of course. You've already presented
trust from one of my allies. You are safe within here."

LAURA: Can I roll an insight check on the whole
allies thing?

MATT: You may.

LAURA: I was having difficulty choosing. 19?

TRAVIS: I told you the fables were true!

SAM: Oh yeah, you know, like Loot Crate and stuff.

TALIESIN: Loot Crate. Magical Loot Crate.

SAM: Doctor Strange. Use 'criticalrole' for 10% off
your Loot Crate guys, code 'criticalrole'!

MATT: You drank the potion, Grog?

TRAVIS: Yeah.

MATT: So you have advantage on intelligence
checks.

TRAVIS: Nice. Do I gain any temporary
intelligence?

MATT: There's a clarity in your mind that hasn't
been there in a while, not since being an eagle.

TRAVIS: Do I look over at the symbols and do they
all of a sudden start to mean something?

MATT: No?

LAURA: Oh no, you can't read still.

MATT: You need to learn to read still.

TALIESIN: You have a deeper understanding of the
tragedy of that.

TRAVIS: I got to A, B, C. We'll work on it.

LIAM: While you don't recognize them as
letters, they're like little characters that

you're familiar with: the burly guy, and then the
cross guy, he's holding swords.

TRAVIS: Yeah, that's the tree. Yep, that one's the
wiener.

SAM: Keyleth, may I speak?

MARISHA: I said we'd dropped our guises so yes,
everyone, you can take your slave robes off now.

SAM: We're all chained.

TRAVIS: Not wearing robes.

MATT: You see Senokir looks over at Uten.

MARISHA: Senokir, can we--?

MATT: "Not to worry. Uten, if you don't mind."
Uten pulls out the ring of keys that he has and

goes through and begins undoing your guys'
shackles. This will take a little while.

TRAVIS: Did the door to the room close?

MATT: It's closed. The two servant giants closed
it. Juuraiel leans forward with a grin, "So,

"please. What do you come here requesting?"

SAM: Hello. Hi, there. Hi.

MATT: "Even smaller!" And now leans in real close
to the edge of the desk. The massive size of her

face and the breath; it's delightful. It's a
combination of rotting vegetation and very dry

earth. But her teeth are gleaming. The smile is
interested in whatever you're about to say.

SAM: Hi there. I'm a bit of a gambler. I'm known
around the worlds as being one of the luckiest men

with a deck of cards you've ever met. I've won
games in many of the different planes. I see that

you collect many treasures that you've won in
matches as well. Is that true?

MATT: Eyes shift back and forth over the rest of
you here, "I have an interest in games of chance

"on occasion, yes. So, you come all this way to
play games?"

SAM: Yes, I have. I spend my life just playing
games. It's my livelihood. I've won many things

over the years. In fact, all of these great
people, large and small next to me, I won in

various card games around the planes. That one
over there, the big one, I won him in a game of

Gin Rummy in the Feywild. This guy I picked up in
a game of Fish. I'm here to collect, possibly, one

of your items, if that's all right with you?

MATT: Make a deception check.

SAM: 32.

(laughter)

MATT: Leans even farther forward, to where it's
about two feet between you and her large eyes that

have come in, and her chin is scraping against the
wood to get a really good look at you. She looks

over, her red pupils slowly inspecting you. The
grin grows even wider as she leans back, "Well,

"you intrigue me, small one. If your luck has been
so great as to collect these fine specimens of

"strangers and you bring them all with you to such
a place. Where do you hail from, if I might ask?"

SAM: Places. That information is not relevant
right now.

MATT: "Fair enough. So! You come to play me for
what?"

SAM: Maybe I'll decide after our match.

MATT: "Well, I need to know what the ante is, so I
can ask for a suitable request for my side."

SAM: Certainly.

TALIESIN: I'm going to lean in and-- (no vocals)

SAM: There's a large ruby shield back there, is
that true?

MATT: "Ah, yes."

SAM: He wants that, but I think his taste sucks.
So I'm going to go for that brass piece of armor

back there.

MATT: "Ah, interesting. So you wish to play for
the armor?"

SAM: Sure, I'm a little man, and it
might help me in a fight someday if I ever lose.

MATT: "Fair enough. So." She leans behind and
pulls out a wooden box from a small cubby. And you

now look behind the desk and there are a series of
cubbies that are embedded in the wall. And there

are different things that she's thrown in there.
She pulls out this wooden box, unlocks it with her

heavy fingers, and opens it. She pulls out a deck
of cards that is larger than what you're used to

playing with, but small enough that you could
functionally hold a hand. Small from her

perspective. Kind of.

(laughter)

SAM: Let me cut the cards.

TRAVIS: And you die.

MATT: She takes it and closes the box. Begins to
shuffle them, without even looking away from you.

As she looks at you, she cocks a bit of a
half-smile to one side and says, "So for that, do

"you know the history of this? For you to come so
far to play a game, there may be a reason you

"come. And the thing you select for the game we
play has much value to you."

SAM: Honestly, the game itself is what's of value
to me. I am just happy to win and keep my winning

streak alive. What I get out of it is
meaningless.

MATT: "Okay."

SAM: But if you'd like to enlighten me on that
object--

MATT: "We will play three hands. The winner of two
takes the pot."

LAURA: (dry heaves)

MATT: "Request the armor. Me, I request your
friends."

LAURA: I knew that's where she was
going to go with this.

SAM: Well, I was going to offer one of your
choosing. But you've only offered me one of your

items.

MATT: "Take it or leave it. If you truly have no
idea what this armor is worth, perhaps you wish to

"choose another thing to ante."

SAM: You seem attached to it. I want it. I'll have
it.

MATT: "How badly do you want it?"

SAM: Certainly badly enough to risk these
scoundrels.

MATT: "Then we have an accord."

SAM: We do.

MARISHA: Hell yeah! Let's do this!

TRAVIS: I've never been an ante before.

LIAM: Stone-cold gnome.

TALIESIN: So many bad ideas start with--

LAURA: Do we need to all sit on the table, then?

MARISHA: Does it work like Vegas? Are all the odds
on the house?

TRAVIS: Is it wizard's chess?

SAM: May I ask what game we're playing? Blackjack?
Are we playing--

TRAVIS: Strip poker!

SAM: Strip poker? Five-card stud?

(laughter)

MATT: "We refer to it as the Tinder Start. But you
probably know of it as the Gambit of Ord."

SAM: We've played this before?

MARISHA: Wait, did we end up playing it?

MATT: This is the thing you didn't end up
playing.

MARISHA: Fucking fuck! We didn't end up playing
this. But wait, we remember the rules?

MATT: You didn't play it. You, make an
intelligence check. Being a bard that you are. And

add a +2 to it.

TRAVIS: Get the Hand Cone out!

SAM: 21.

MATT: You have played this game.

LAURA: Thank god! Do you suck at it?

SAM: I suck at everything.

MATT: The hand is represented. Each of you roll a
d8, but you keep the die hidden. Then you both

roll a d6, and then keep it secret. Then you both
roll a d4, and then reveal them all together. But

you can raise it as you wish.

TRAVIS: You raise after each roll?

MATT: Yeah.

LAURA: What's the goal? What are you trying to
get to?

MATT: The highest number between the three rolls.
But you can fold if you want to. This usually is

done in a betting type circumstance, so we'll see
how things go from here. Anyway, finishes

shuffling. Tosses you a series of cards. Takes a
couple cards for herself. Sets the deck aside,

right in front of her. The two guards in the back,
by the way, we hear them stepping away and

retrieve their weapons, and head back behind you
guys. Just keeping them at their sides.

LIAM: So in this room, let's say you're her, and
we're all where we are, and the giants are behind

the group, is that about right?

MATT: Yes.

LIAM: And how much room is there behind her and
the wall?

MATT: Maybe 15 feet, 20 feet.

LIAM: I'm going to slowly tippie-toe around the
side of the wall, carefully avoiding giants. I want

to stand not directly behind her, but off at an
angle.

MATT: Make a stealth check.

LIAM: 30.

MATT: Okay. You both take a look at your hands. Go
ahead and roll a d8. Okay.

SAM: And now?

MATT: So, for this circumstance, we'll go ahead
and take a d6. Roll it and put it next to the die.

All right. And now take a d4.

SAM: And if we fold, do we start over?

MATT: If you fold, you lose the round.

SAM: Oh, well then it's just a number.

LAURA: So it's just numbers, at this point?

MATT: At this point, yeah. You walked into a game
of her choice.

LAURA: There's no way to cheat.

LIAM: So there's three rolls in a row, and she's
done two. Can we see them from where I am?

MATT: You currently went around the table?

LIAM: Yeah, I'm at an angle, but I'm a lot lower
than she is.

MATT: Make a perception check.

LIAM: Luck. That's fine. 22.

MATT: You get a good glance at the first two
cards, yes.

LIAM: Can I (mutters inaudibly) in the earring, as
quiet as a mouse? Can I just breathe it?

MATT: Make a stealth check.

LIAM: With advantage?

MATT: Not with advantage because it's an audio
thing.

LIAM: Is it three rolls? I don't understand the
game.

LAURA: There's no way we can cheat! Because the
ante's already on the table!

LIAM: Yeah, I'm going to wait.

LAURA: Right, there's no way to cheat?

MATT: That you can think of.

LAURA: Unless you can fudge the dice!

MARISHA: But that's risky.

LAURA: It's technically cards.

MATT: It's cards. The dice is just the mechanic
for it. Take a look at your hand.

SAM: I know my hand. Wait, am I rolling the d4 or
no?

MATT: We rolled the d8 and the d6. She looks down
and goes, "All right. So, to make this even more

"interesting. I'll wait. Let us see how the first
hand goes, shall we?" And she puts her third card

in front of her, face down. Roll now.

SAM: (quietly) Not good, you guys.

MATT: "And call." And she turns the cards over.
"Four, six, one." A total of 11.

SAM: One, five, two. Total of eight.

MATT: "That is an unfortunate way to open it, my
small friend. But you seem keen on winning, and I

"respect that." She takes the cards, places them to
the side. Deals out a new hand, brings it back to

her. "Shall we begin?" Go ahead and roll your d8.

SAM: Oh, man, this is just straight rolls.

TRAVIS: We're going to kill everybody in this
motherfucking house!

LAURA: There's no way to fucking sleight of hand
this shit, is there?

MARISHA: Can he add his Bardic Inspiration?

MATT: No, this isn't an ability check.

ASHLEY: If I cast Enhance Ability on him?

LAURA: Maybe, can you pray for Sarenrae?

MATT: This is quite literally a game of chance. If
you wanted to try and fuck around with a creative

way to cheat, you're welcome to try. That could also
go very poorly, depending on how it goes. Before

you do the next one, she stops and goes, "So, as I
was going to say before. How about, as your

"friends are the ante on the table, throw yourself
in as well?"

SAM: And what will you give me if I win?

MATT: "Perhaps the ruby shield?"

SAM: I love myself a lot. A lot more 
than a bunch of rubies

and a handle, I'll tell you that much. If I'm
giving myself to slavery forever, I want

something a hell of a lot better than that. I'm a
man who's won 500 straight card games in a row.

You think these slaves are something? You should
see what I have at home.

MATT: Make a deception check.

SAM: 32.

TRAVIS: Uh-oh.

LAURA: Oh no.

MATT: She nods.

SAM: I'll give you myself as a slave if you do
not draw your next card and skip straight to the

third, and that's your number. I get all three.

MATT: "Very well."

TRAVIS: Oh, nice, dude!

LAURA: Oh, hopefully she didn't roll an eight on
that first one.

MATT: She rolled, the first die is placed there.

LAURA and TRAVIS: She rolled an eight?!?

SAM: Oh, fucking balls. Fuck balls.

(laughter)

LAURA: We have to be ready to fight. Grab it and
then Jenga out.

MATT: She rolled her last card but is not
showing.

ASHLEY: But take the shield, too, though. Take the
shield!

SAM: (whispers) Pretty bad.

TALIESIN: No, we're good. Tell her to show her
last card.

LAURA: Maybe it's a one.

MATT: It's a two. "A ten. What did you roll?"

TALIESIN: I cast Minor Illusion on the first card,
to turn the three into an eight.

MATT: As you begin to mutter the incantation under
your breath, she says, "I would not recommend

"bringing incantations into our game of chance."

SAM: Before I reveal my cards, I have one more
proposal.

MATT: "Yes?"

SAM: (whispers) I don't know what it is.

(laughter)

LAURA: Maybe we can perform for her?

SAM: I'll come clean with you. We know exactly
what that fucking piece of armor is.

MATT: "I had a feeling."

(laughter)

SAM: We want it. We're not leaving
here without it. I'm sorry, I'm not going to show

you my cards. Because before I do, you'll be dead.
Sorry, guys.

MATT: She turns her head to the side, "You do not
want to walk this path, do you? Because if you

"truly cherish the lives that you and your friends
here have, based on your current change in tone,

"this tells me that they now belong to me. Perhaps
you would wish to continue to make this agreement

"you came to make. Show me your card."

SAM: I drew a three, and a three, and a three.

TRAVIS: Oh, that sucks!

MATT: "By one each time. Perhaps it was time for
you to lose cards after all. Based on our

"agreement, you and your friends are now property
of Juuraiel. However, I see that you are traveled.

"You seem capable. You are bold. You walk in here
after acquiring the will of Whaska. So, you want

"freedom, yes?"

SAM: Yes?

MATT: "Then perhaps there is a favor
you can do for me. In exchange for this favor, I

"will nullify our contract, and you will be free to
go. Does this sound viable?"

SAM: Possibly. Is it a card game?

MATT: "The other choice is you are now mine. Or,
as you threatened boldly before, that I was to

"die. But I can say, given the current place that
you reside, the enchantments I have on this room,

"the friends of mine that I have at your back, you
will not have the outcome you wish."

SAM: What is your offer?

MATT: "Do you agree?"

LAURA: Did you ever meet a dragon named Thordak?

MATT: "No."

LAURA: Fuck. Big red guy? Took a lot of fire
giants with him?

MATT: "There are a number of red dragons that
walk."

LAURA: This one was special. He had an enormous
jewel in his chest.

MATT: "Sounds worthwhile. But do you agree to our
arrangement?"

SAM: Just curious, can we draw the third hand? I
just want to feel what it feels like to win once.

ASHLEY: What about best out of five? You're
probably so bored with life; why not?

SAM: My slave speaks the truth.

MATT: "You are full of spunk and life. And you are
foolish. Do you agree to our accord?"

SAM: I'm really curious about this last hand. If
you beat me in this last hand, I agree.

MATT: "If I beat you in this hand, you agree.
Otherwise, what? I still own you?"

SAM: Yes. Well, that's the deal.

TRAVIS: Yeah, I like that. Maybe you'll win
one.

ASHLEY: One more hand?

MATT: "We will see who wins this hand for your own
sake."

SAM: Thank you. That would make me feel so
much better about myself.

MATT: "It does not change our deal." First die.
Second. And third. She reveals four, four, four.

Literally rolled all fours.

TRAVIS: God! Matt! You!

TALIESIN and MARISHA: Wow.

SAM: I'm really just bad at everything.

TRAVIS: Did you roll an 11?

SAM: I rolled an 11.

MATT: Oh my God!

TRAVIS: You are a deity.

MATT: I wish I had this luck in Vegas! Like,
literal gambling.

TRAVIS: It's just four hours.

SAM: Best seven out of 13!

(laughter)

MATT: "You have agreed to our accord as per the
agreement."

SAM: I have agreed. I'm already your slave,
so I couldn't really say no. So yes, I

agree to our accord. What favor can I grant you?

MATT: "You will have your freedom and the armor
you seek. My lover does not live because of an

"altercation with one who frequents the city. My
partner, Drogat, died needlessly in the streets of

"an innocent altercation with Ghurrix, a pit fiend
that lives at the embassy."

LAURA: (groaning) Ah jeez.

SAM: Sorry, we're not supposed to go to the
embassy. We were told so by our tour guide.

MATT: "Oh, you should never go to the embassy. But
this Ghurrix is tied up with a lot of politics in

"this city. As much as I would love to squeeze what
infernal life he has, I fear it would cause the

"execution of me and mine. So, I sit and fester
with the need of vengeance. I need you, if you're

"as capable as you promise, to go and find
Ghurrix, in whatever way you see fit, and carve

"the life from his body. Now, Ghurrix frequents the
Arches, which is the slave market of the city,

"where he finds rare and unique servants for the
Nine Hells and his masters there. Goes about once

"a week and is probably due there in a day or two.
Go, slay Ghurrix, and return to me with no mention

"and no trace that can be brought back to my home.
Then the armor is yours, as is your freedom.

"There is no agreement. You've already agreed. So
go."

SAM: Yes, we accept. Thank you, my master, we will
go do so right away. Two days, you say?

MATT: "Two days, yes."

LAURA: Does that mean we don't have to answer to
you anymore? You're equal to us?

SAM: Yes.

MARISHA: High five, yeah!

SAM: I release you from your slavery.

MARISHA: And into another one.

SAM: What does he look like?

MATT: She reaches down to the side of the desk,
and pulls out a very small book, relative size,

and flips through, and opens a page to turn
towards you. "This is what I seek to see

"destroyed. You can tell, Ghurrix wears a symbol of
his station. It is a thick, black chain. And at

"the bottom, it has the symbol of two manacles
intertwined within a red symbol that pulses with

"anger. That is your mark."

SAM: Are you sure you don't want just a game of
Pinochle instead?

MATT: "You try my patience, small one."

SAM: Please, call me Kenny Rogers.

MATT: "Two days. Go!"

SAM: Let's go, slaves! I'm sorry, equals, peers,
let's go!

MATT: As you guys step down, the two giant guards
step back and begin to walk towards the door to

let you out.

LAURA: Actually, madam, master. Do you have any
symbols that you can give us, like something we

could show people so they don't try to claim us
for themselves? Because we're a lot smaller than

everyone else here. Something that shows that
we're your slaves?

MATT: "Hmm." She gets up from behind the desk, and
walks up the stairs for a moment.

LAURA: Is she out of the room?

MATT: She's out of the room, currently.

LAURA: And two other giants are behind us?

MATT: Yes.

LAURA: What are they doing?

MATT: They're standing watching all of you.

LAURA: All of us except for--

LIAM: I'm standing there, but I'm not--

LAURA: Jump up and fucking see how it's
attached to the wall!

TRAVIS: How big is the suit of armor, the
Dawnmartyr?

MATT: It would fit a human. A minute passes. You
hear the footfalls return. As she comes down the

stairs, with her hand in a fist, she throws her
hand open. Hitting the ground, and scattering

across the stonework, some of them stopping at
your feet or beyond, a series of black, metal

rings that match the ones that the two giants wear
around their neck.

TRAVIS: But smaller.

MATT: But smaller. Various sizes. There's probably
like a dozen or so you can pick from. Some will

fit better than others. "These I had made, but I
had no need for servants of your size until today.

"So, go. These should be enough."

LAURA: Thank you. They're lovely.

TRAVIS: Yeah, I put mine on. I like it a lot.

SAM: Have a lovely afternoon.

MATT: "You as well. Good luck. Please, kill it.
Return."

TRAVIS: Do we want to stay the night here?

MARISHA: Yeah, I was going to ask that.

SAM: Gross, but okay, go ahead.

TRAVIS: A quick query. We're, like, visitors. We
don't really have a place to stay. Now that we're

yours, do you have like a broom cupboard?

MATT: Senokir pipes up and goes, "Actually, you're
welcome to stay at our place. We have facilities

"that could function. Besides, it's a lot of chain
we have to carry back now."

TALIESIN: It's true.

LAURA: We'll do you the favor, Senokir, of
carrying this chain back to your place.

MATT: "That's wonderful, thank you."

LAURA: A favor for a favor. (giggles)

MATT: "Indeed. We'll talk soon about mine."

TRAVIS: He's going to wear us like winter coats.
Going to make a suit out of our skin.

MARISHA: Nice lampshade.

LAURA: Ooh, his eyebrows literally going up when
you said that. I think he wants to do it.

MATT: So, the door is lifted. You guys are led
back out onto the street. Closes behind you.

The time that has passed now, I need everyone once
again to roll another constitution saving throw.

TRAVIS: But I drank that Fox's Cunning.

MARISHA: Am I okay?

TALIESIN: We're going to be fine, anyway. We have
the mansion.

TRAVIS: 24.

TALIESIN: 11.

SAM: 20.

MARISHA: Do I still have fire resist?

MATT: Your fire resist would have gone away. You
could cast it again.

MARISHA: I'll just roll this time. It's just
straight constitution?

LAURA: Saving throw.

ASHLEY: With a saving throw?

MATT: Yeah.

ASHLEY: So roll another.

MATT: Well, no. You roll and then you add your
saving throw bonus.

MARISHA: Seven.

MATT: Vex?

LAURA: Four.

ASHLEY: Three!

MATT: All right. Pike, Vex, Keyleth, and Percy all
suffer a point of exhaustion. Pike, your speed is

halved right now.

LAURA: Oh no, Pike, but you're already so little!

ASHLEY: My what's halved?

MATT: Your speed is halved, so you are trailing
behind everybody.

LAURA: Grog, pick her up, she looks like she needs
some water.

ASHLEY: Grog, I'm just so tired.

TRAVIS: You look so mopey.

ASHLEY: I feel very mopey.

TRAVIS: Did you want a piggyback ride?

ASHLEY: Yeah.

TRAVIS: All right, I pick her up and I put her
on my shoulder.

MATT: You guys eventually make your way back,
being led by Senokir back to his establishment.

Let's go ahead and take a little break for now. Go
ahead and use the restroom--

TRAVIS: You looked like the creepy guy was saying we
should take a break for just a second.

MATT: "That would be frightening, wouldn't it?" All
right, guys, we'll be back in just a few minutes,

we'll see you in a second.

[break]

MATT: Welcome back everyone to Critical Role. That
was terrible.

TRAVIS: The timing. Well, she's been gone.

MATT: She's been gone a while. It's okay, welcome
back.

ASHLEY: I'm sorry.

MATT: Ashley, you're amazing.

ASHLEY: I'm just not working right now.

MATT: That's okay. So. You guys have returned to
Senokir and Uten's establishment to rest until you

feel is necessary to undertake this endeavor. But
it is your guys' prerogative as to if you want to

wait over the next day, day and a half to jump to
it or is there anything you want to do to prepare

for this circumstance? What do you want to do?

TALIESIN: Let's sleep in the mansion so we can
gain some of our--

LAURA: Yeah let's sleep in the mansion till we can
at least get rid of this heat.

SAM: If it's a day or two, we could go back to
Daxio and check and come back. But then we'd have

to get back into the city. That's probably a
terrible idea.

MARISHA: Can I bamf right here? What's your name?
What is Simma sina--

TRAVIS: Sequin.

MARISHA: Senokir. Took a ten-minute break and
that's it. Senokir, is there a way we could-- If I

wanted to Plane Shift home, is there a way that I
could Plane Shift right back here and not get, you

know, our heads chopped off for it?

MATT: "I don't know. Is there?"

MARISHA: Let me check, guys. You know, let me
check the druidic texts and see what they say.

MATT: Specifically, you can choose a target in
general terms. It'll probably bring you right back

to where you arrived here. So you'd be back to
the outside of the city.

LIAM: At the respawn point.

MARISHA: Well, I can't say Senokir's jewelry shop
in the City of Brass?

MATT: You can specify a target or destination in
general terms. So the City of Brass or Dispater on

the second level of the Nine Hells. You appear in
or near that destination.

SAM: No guarantee that we'd be back in. So we
should stay.

MATT: Up to you. Crapshoot, it's possible.

LAURA: As long as we know that Allura will send us
a message if something goes wrong.

LIAM: Did it get dark out at all? Or no?

MATT: Actually, by this time, as you guys have
gotten back and ended this rest you guys have

really come to get really thirsty, and as the
exhaustion hits in, you all continue to reach for

your waterskins and they're dried up.

TALIESIN: We should go back into the mansion.

SAM: I agree.

MATT: The sun, however, has gone to a darker red
color, like a soft eclipse almost. And as it does,

the heat remains but the light gets dimmer and
dimmer into a red twilight. And as it does, the

city shuts down. Everybody goes home, locks up,
and nothing but the efreet that you saw wandering the

streets earlier with the little flaming brooches
or amulets in the uniform outfit wander the streets.

LAURA: Why doesn't anyone go outside at night?

MATT: Pardon me. (sneezes)

MARISHA: Bless you.

LAURA: Bless you, Senokir.

MATT: (sneezes)

TRAVIS: Give me a third one.

MARISHA: Bless you again.

MATT: Fuck you. Hate you so much. Live gaming.
You ask this to Senokir?

LAURA: Yeah.

MATT: "That's largely because the Illuminated
maintain a curfew. And if you don't follow the

"curfew, you'll wind up in chains."

LAURA: Okay. Different chains than regular
chains?

MATT: "At first, yes."

LAURA: Okay.

TRAVIS: Waterskins from our servants--

LIAM: Who's that guy? What is that guy?

OFFSCREEN: Thanks, Gov'ner.

LAURA: What are we at?

MATT: "Kill him."

(laughter)

MATT: "If you require water I can procure that for
you, if you like."

LAURA: Hmm?

MATT: "If you want water I can procure that for
you."

TALIESIN: Can we get water from the--

SAM: Well, we have water in his fucking jug.

LAURA: Yeah. We've got so much water.

MARISHA: I can also create water.

LAURA: Yeah, but he's got a jug full of it.

MARISHA: Pike and I can create water. Me and Pike
both can.

TRAVIS: I can create water. Don't say it like it's
cool.

TALIESIN: They're not speaking in metaphor. We
know you can create water.

MATT: All right, so, what do you guys wish to do?

LIAM: I mean, are we in a hurry, do we want to
try to make this happen tonight?

TALIESIN: Let's mansion for the night and then I
think in the morning. We can't find him tonight.

Can we?

LIAM: I'm not talking about him, I'm talking about
doubling back to the house and trying to get

through the servants' window.

SAM: You really want to try to break into this
fire giant's house?

LIAM: If we're in a hurry, I mean we've killed
some pretty gnarly things, I know they're big. So

are we.

LAURA: She could be gnarlier than the giants that
we've fought.

TRAVIS: And there might be an unbelievable amount
of fire giants in that building.

SAM: Or traps.

MARISHA: Or allies nearby. It's in the middle of a
city.

LIAM: Yeah. And I'm sure the other thing will be
super easy.

LAURA: The pit fiend?

LIAM: It's on the table. I mean, whatever, you
know. I'm going to follow your lead.

SAM: You want to do a smash and grab?

LAURA: Run in, grab the armor, Plane Shift out.
Can they chase us down if we do that?

MARISHA: Classic B&E? Plane Shift takes a
minute--

LAURA: No, it's instant. Remember, we checked it.

MATT: It's an action.

MARISHA: It takes an action. As long as we're all
in a circle holding hands.

TRAVIS: Oh shit.

TALIESIN: And what happens if you can't Plane
Shift out of that house? We probably want to get

out of the house and then Plane Shift.

MARISHA: In case it's magically locked down?

TALIESIN: In case it's magically locked down.

LAURA: Yeah, that's pretty smart.

TALIESIN: In which the phrase, "I have many
enchantments upon my home," led me to believe

there's probably--

TRAVIS: I mean, I really don't see what the problem
is, right? Hellfiend goes, "Oh, time to go shopping

for slaves." He walks up to the Arches, we set
a trap, Vax goes stabby-stab-stab, Percy goes

(gunshot), Pike goes, (high-pitched) "Hi", and like,
donesky!

TALIESIN: You're writing the best children's book
ever.

LAURA: I mean, I'm down, I think that's a great
plan, Grog.

MARISHA: He also said that the pit fiend could be
there in one to two days.

LAURA: Yes.

SAM: Could be there tomorrow?

MARISHA: Also, do we know how much time passes in
the fire plane versus the real world?

MATT: You're not entirely certain, comparatively
the time. You feel like you've been here for, I

mean, a while. By the cycle of the sun-like light
source in the sky here on the plane, it seems like

you've been here for about a day.

LAURA: Oh, shit.

MARISHA: Do we remember any type of relative time
jump when we were here last time in and out?

MATT: No, but you were only here for maybe a
handful of hours last time you guys came here.

TRAVIS: Were you worried about being away from
Fort Daxio for too long?

LIAM: Yeah, that's what I was suggesting.

MARISHA: Yeah, I mean we could come back to
Thordak just destroyed everything.

TRAVIS: Can't we scry on the fort?

MARISHA: I can't scry between dimensions.

MATT: It has to be on the same plane.

LAURA: Can you scry on the pit fiend?

MARISHA: Yeah.

SAM: We know what it looks like.

LAURA: And you know like a thing for him, right?
We know his name.

TRAVIS: Thank you, watering boy.

MARISHA: Yes, I could.

SAM: Cabin boy, thank you.

TRAVIS: That's what I meant! That's what I wanted
to say!

MARISHA: Yeah, can I use the scrying eye to try
and scry on the pit fiend?

MATT: You certainly can. So you have secondhand
knowledge of the pit fiend.

MARISHA: And trying to imagine his emblem that
she described with the two manacles and the black

chain, because that was pretty cool.

MATT: So, focusing on the emblem that you were
described, you close your eyes and concentrate,

holding the orb of scrying within your grasp.
Okay. What's your spell DC?

MARISHA: 19.

MATT: What's the spell DC of the scrying orb?

MARISHA: It doesn't say.

MATT: It would be 15. Unless you cast the spell,
right?

MARISHA: Yeah, I get to do it, so it should still
be mine, right?

MATT: Usually it would be set for the item, but
for the purposes of this it won't make a huge

difference. What's your spell DC?

MARISHA: 19.

MATT: 19, okay yeah, so it won't make a
difference. You close your eyes and you see a

brief fuzzy vision of the city from your
perspective and then your vision jumps suddenly

and comes to fire, then comes to black, then comes
to a quick view of that weird citadel, carved out

of black obsidian hands reaching over each other,
the one that you saw earlier, the embassy. Then

you feel a wall and you're thrust through a series of
walls, not able to really take in any visuals, the

process is so fast, wall after wall, then you come
to a darkened room, a wide chamber that contains a

long series of papers and scrolls that are laid
out in a specific format. You can see, chained to

the walls, individuals moaning and crying. And you
see, sitting in this small circle in the center of

the floor, a humanoid-- a humanoid in the sense
that it has arms or legs-- but you see the pit fiend

sitting there, almost meditating, eyes closed, large
teeth, jagged and pointed, coming out of its large

jaw, dark red horns that curve behind its head,
these large wings that are folded around it from

the back as it sits its knees out, crosslegged, its
arms resting upon the edges, eyes closed. It

appears to be sleeping. Or at least resting.

MARISHA: Can I get a focus on what the slaves look
like?

MATT: Unfortunately you can't, the target of your
scry is about the most you can focus on; you can

give a blurry atmosphere around them, you can
barely pick up the aspect of their presence, but

that's the most you can do with the scry spell.

MARISHA: Okay. Well, he appears to be in his
bedroom, definitely in the citadel. As she said.

LAURA: Does he have any, like, cuts on him,
anything that looks weak?

MARISHA: He had big gnarly teeth and slaves.

ASHLEY: Did he look scary?

MARISHA: He looked very unpleasant.

TRAVIS: But it's just him, right? One dude?

SAM: We could take one dude!

MARISHA: Well, he also had a bunch of people
chained to the wall, and this was after my vision

being slammed through several walls. It seemed to
be very deep in the labyrinth that is the embassy,

which seems like a labyrinth.

LAURA: So we'll have to wait until he comes
out.

TALIESIN: Can we trick him into the mansion?

SAM: The mansion door, I think, is only ten feet
tall.

LAURA: How tall is he?

SAM: 20?

MATT: Best that you could tell, probably close to
15 feet.

LAURA: He could duck in.

MARISHA: He's a little taller than Grog.

ASHLEY: What kind of slaves did it look like he
had? All types?

MARISHA: I tried to look. I couldn't tell. Looked
like a nice variety.

LAURA: If we said, "Hey, I heard there's really good
slaves up in this mansion--"

SAM: And then what do we do in the mansion?

TALIESIN: We can quietly attack him from all
sides. Have a fight that won't draw the attention

of the guards.

SAM: Something tells me that people fight in this
city a lot.

LAURA: Yeah, but I don't think the slaves attack
the owners very often.

TALIESIN: There's nothing we could damage in there
that would remain damaged.

MARISHA: Unless we tried to use ourselves as slave
bait again, put a few of us on the auction.

LIAM: You seemed to be able to talk Yenk into
doing whatever you wanted. Do you think you could

do that with this guy?

SAM: I could certainly make an appearance of
Yenk.

LIAM: I meant convince him to come inside.

SAM: You mean Dominate him?

LAURA: He could be much more intelligent than Yenk
was, though.

LIAM: Could be.

SAM: I can try.

TALIESIN: He wears jewelry.

MARISHA: He has a logo.

TRAVIS: He meditates.

LAURA: He meditates?

TRAVIS: Yep.

TALIESIN: Bikram yoga.

LAURA: Is that the hot one?

TALIESIN: That is the hot one.

TRAVIS: Should we go recon on the auction as slave
shopping or whatever it is?

LAURA: In the morning. Not now.

TRAVIS: Set up the door outside of the market or
whatever.

SAM: So, he's going to the auction to slave shop?

TALIESIN: Yes.

TRAVIS: Unique slaves. He likes unique slaves.

SAM: Seems crazy that a gigantic fucking pit boss,
whatever he is, would be like, "Oh, sure, I'll

"step into this creepy door, weird stranger!"

LAURA: The mansion door is rather creepy, isn't
it?

SAM: Yeah, for sure! Everything about me is
creepy, guys!

TRAVIS: But it's unique, and what if inside the
door we make it look even more unique?

LAURA: Yeah, can't you make the mansion look like
anything you want?

MATT: Within reason.

TRAVIS: That's important to say.

MATT: There are limitations. It's still a
mansion.

LAURA: I mean, if it looks like a sexy den or
something.

TRAVIS: Yeah, and if he doesn't come in the door,
then we kill him.

SAM: This seems like a plan C to me. Convincing a
giant killing machine to step into a nice house

seems like it's a desperate plan of people without
anything at all.

TALIESIN: He's not a giant killing machine, he's a
businessman looking to purchase--

TRAVIS: What, do we go and make a deal with the
devil? (goofy chuckle)

SAM: The deal is we just attack him and kill him!
What's the big deal? We were sent on a killing

mission here.

TALIESIN: Where are we going to kill him?

SAM: Wherever we see him! Let's talk to Sonny
here, creepy Sonny.

LIAM: What about this? This is a terrible idea.
Could one of us goad him into following us out of

his abode or some building, somewhere, and you
plop the mansion door outside the actual door? So

he goes to try to leave the tavern or whatever the
fuck, he goes into our house?

LAURA: Ultimately, if we can get him in a building
and then back out of the building, great. But if

we can get him in that building, why can't we get
him in the fucking mansion?

MATT: As far as you understand, for a person to
walk into the mansion, they have to know they're

walking into the mansion.

SAM: So we can definitely entice them. You guys
can pose as slaves and show him some amazing feats

and say, "There's more where that came from,
inside the mansion!" but if he says no, then

what's our plan?

MATT: Senokir pipes up at this point. He's been
listening in to this whole conversation off to the

side. He goes, "If you are indeed going to fight a
creature of this esteem, I will request to not be

"present. Thus, you will be masterless in this
city. I don't know how to protect you the way you look."

TRAVIS: Don't we have the neck rings, the collars,
to mock that we're--

MATT: "Perhaps. That will be helpful. Just make
sure you have a solid story, or another way

"of masking yourself. Otherwise--"

SAM: I can make us all look different. What would
make us passable in the city?

MATT: "Well, dressed more like us, or the others
who are free. It all depends on what you can look like."

TRAVIS: Less appealing. Less different.

MATT: "Or, at least, amongst the elite of this
city, where you won't be bothered."

SAM: I can make us all robes and stuff.

ASHELY: Don't we want to look unique for him to
want--

LAURA: One of us.

MARISHA: Seeming allows you to tailor us, right?

SAM: Sure, sure.

MATT: Actually, what does Seeming allow?

SAM: I can shrink or grow us by a foot, change our
general appearance and clothing.

MARISHA: How about we do a little bit of both? We
can have a few of us, maybe two, as slaves, the

rest as masters, walking around incognito. Once one
of us gets sold off, we track him back so we're

not fighting a member of the Embassy of the City
of Brass in the middle of the market.

LAURA: That would be bad.

LIAM: I like the mansion idea. What if we pitched
the mansion as a traveling magical boutique slave

shop? Artisan slave shop? We lube this guy up in a
loincloth and this guy after a hard day's

tinkering, and we sell them! This guy can sell
anything! This guy could sell a hunk of shit to

the Emperor of Emon.

MARISHA: These people have seen a lot of shit, not
just one hunk of shit.

LAURA: What if you and I dressed in exact,
identical clothing, and then we're unique? We're,

you know, twin slaves?

TALIESIN: I was actually going to say quintuplets.
We could all look the same.

MARISHA: Is that a fantasy that people have?

TALIESIN: It is now.

LIAM: That's the plan!

SAM: I'm sorry, what's going on? We're all looking
like you?

LIAM: We're septuplets! Sextuplets! And you're the
salesman.

SAM: I'm selling a group of identical sextuplet
slaves and the advantage is just that they look

cool? "Check out my slaves; they all look alike!"

TRAVIS: If you give us one order, we all
understand the order!

TALIESIN: Somehow, a stamp with an upside-down
airplane is worth a fortune. This, obviously, is

more rare.

SAM: I could make you all other ways unique.

LIAM: I mean, we're fairly attractive! I feel like
six of us would be worth the price of admission.

LAURA: Although you can only grow us or shrink us
by a foot, so this would be a really little--

TALIESIN: We'll make her taller and you two
shorter.

MARISHA: Can I also throw out that maybe six might
be pushing it a little? Maybe we should drop it

down to, like, quadruplets?

TALIESIN: No! Because six is what he's walking
around with! He's got more back in his shop!

LIAM: It's got the word "sex" right in it!
Sextuplets! Sex sells! Sextuplets sell!

TRAVIS: You can do it. Magic door, sextuplets.

SAM: I love this idea, don't get me wrong, but I
feel like convincing him that you are able-bodied

slaves with magical abilities might be even more
of icing on the cake than, "Hey, they look alike!"

TRAVIS: I like that! You vamp, baby, you do
whatever. Do what you do.

SAM; All right, and when it doesn't work, Sonny,
can we fight him right there in the Arches? Will

people be like, "What the fuck's going on? Arrest
them all!"

MATT: "He is a known entity in this city. If you
wish to fight him in the open, I would recommend

"having a way of perhaps having the Illuminated on
your side."

SAM: That's the guards?

MATT: "That is the guard."

LIAM: Artisanal half-elf slaves.

LAURA: Wait. If we can convince them that he's
broken a law of some sort--

TRAVIS and LAURA: Bribes.

SAM: We could also try to convince them that he's
broken a law or done something horrible.

LAURA: What's against the law here?

MATT: "Well, going against the sultan is the most
grievous of things. He is a paranoid one."

LAURA: He's the one in the big-- no.

MATT: "In the Charcoal Palace."

SAM: I could make the image of our mark standing
out there in the middle of the Arches, cursing the

sultan's name and pissing all over the place.

TRAVIS: Right, but listen, I don't know if we have
enough to bribe all the efreet. What if we went to

the Charcoal Palace, spewed a tale, and said that
this pit fiend is plotting to overthrow the

Charcoal Palace and all we want is to remove the
problem for him?

MATT: "I can really recommend you not go near that
palace."

LAURA: Yeah, let's not do that.

TRAVIS: So, we do it.

LAURA: No, let's not.

MATT: "They have wards to pierce through lies. You
will find yourselves never heard from again, if

"you have falsehood in your midst."

TALIESIN: Does the sultan mark his slaves?

MATT: "The sultan, I imagine, would, though I am
not aware of it myself."

TALIESIN: Does he have a seal?

MATT: "I believe so."

TALIESIN: If we were to sell ourselves as slaves,
we could be marked as the property of the sultan.

SAM: And then what?

TALIESIN: And then we could claim that he was
trying to steal property of the sultan.

SAM: Are we still sextuplets in this scenario?

TALIESIN: You don't get to negotiate that aspect.
Even if we're just sneaking back into the house

and stealing the armor, we're doing it as
identical sextuplets. There's no fighting that

anymore.

LIAM: One addendum. Our sizes don't change,
right?

SAM: I can make you a foot taller or smaller.

LIAM: We could be the Matryoshka nesting dolls.
From biggest to smallest. That's unique!

SAM: That is unique.

MARISHA: I feel like we're spending a lot of time
on this, and maybe not enough time on our battle plan.

LIAM: Oh, that would go to shit anyway.

SAM: Okay, so far, let's recap. Recap, vote, and
move on.

LAURA: Senokir, if you saw a bunch of people who
looked the same, that went from small to big,

wouldn't you want them as slaves?

MATT: "Depending."

LAURA: They were totally hot, too.

MATT: "Probably."

ASHLEY: And also, if they had skills, each of them
had a separate skill?

MATT: "Most likely. There are many unique slaves
that pass through the Arches."

LAURA: Oh, really? What's the most unique one
you've ever seen?

MATT: "They've had a few celestials through
before. Those generally fetch a pretty penny with

"the individuals you're speaking about. The winged
ones, they apparently are very sought-after by the

"Nine Hells."

LAURA: Wings! You have wings!

MARISHA: Or we could Seeming wings?

LAURA: Yeah, but they could probably see through
that shit! His are real!

LIAM: So far, only Cinnabons here has been able to
see through my shit.

LAURA: I feel like they'd be able to tell. But
whatever.

TALIESIN: If each of the sextuplets-- I'm never
going to get tired of saying that-- were unique in

their own way, and yours was that you had a trace
of celestial which is why you have wings?

TRAVIS: Do we still want to try and get him in the
mansion?

TALIESIN: Yes.

SAM: So wait, I'm going to recap these plans,
here. Plan A, making us all sextuplets and trying

to get him into the mansion.

TRAVIS: Celestial sextuplets.

SAM: Plan B, we're all sextuplets--

MATT: Seeming does not add wings. It has
the same arrangement of body parts. But if one of

them has wings, you could change those wings into
a different color.

MARISHA: Can I use Alter Self, because Alter Self
gives-- because I can give myself gills and stuff

like that.

SAM: So, Plan A, again, sextuplets, slaves,
mansion. Plan B, we're still sextuplets, but this

time, we're somehow framing him for dishonoring
the sultan and then attacking him in the middle of

the square.

TALIESIN: Which is why Plan A is much better.

SAM: Plan C, still sextuplets, that doesn't
change, but now we're just ambushing him in the

center of the Arches and we've paid off the guards
to turn a blind eye.

TALIESIN: We don't have enough money to pay off
the guards.

SAM: We have tons of money!

LAURA: We don't have that much money.

SAM: I mean, we could bribe them with six
identical slaves. So what's it going to be? Plan

A, the mansion that's certainly going to fail?
Plan B, the framing job? Or Plan C, the bribery

slash ambush?

LAURA: Plan A, into plan B if it doesn't work!

SAM: All right, great!

TALIESIN: Remember, we're just to show off. You've
got more.

SAM: Of course I've got more.

LAURA: What is the sultan's name?

MATT: "The sultan's name is the Grand Sultan of
the Efreet, the Lord of Flame, the Potentate

"Incandescent, the Tempering and Eternal Flame of
Truth, the Most Puissant of Hunters, Marshal of

"the Order of the Fiery Heart, the Smoldering
Dictator, the Crimson Firebrand, Marrake al-Sidan

"al-Hariq ben Lazen."

MARISHA: It's like when you start the little
Halloween sing-y things.

LAURA: I almost got it memorized though.

TRAVIS: I thought Percy's was long, shit.

TALIESIN: Mine's better.

LIAM: Scan-Man, can you rearrange the inside of
the mansion to look like whatever you want--

SAM: Yeah, what would it be? A slave auction
house?

LIAM: Could it be a theater for presentation, or a
ring to show off amazing skills? Wings, arrows?

SAM: A circus side-show thing?

TALIESIN: Somewhere between the Folies Bergere and
Caligula's living room.

SAM: Caligula's living room, I can do.

MARISHA: Maybe have a little side area with hookah
and some nice dancers, you know? As he watches, to

add to the atmosphere?

SAM: I mean, sure, I can do some of these things.
Within reason. Right?

MATT: Maybe.

SAM: Once the mansion is built, does it stay
built? It rebuilds every time?

TALIESIN: I think it's like a Windows PC. You can
change the desktop settings.

MARISHA: What if the ladies went on a redecorating
tear really fast?

LAURA: They hung a bunch of fabric up and lit some
candles?

MARISHA: Dim the lights.

MATT: It's still a mansion. You have an indoor
foyer. You can customize any other floor plan you

like, and the decor of it, but it still looks like
a mansion.

LAURA: So we can put pieces of fabric up.

ASHLEY: Opium den style.

LIAM: Can we build a stage out of chickens?

TALIESIN: You could have little slave chickens.

SAM: I mean, that sounds so great. I'm on board.
Let's try this stupid, crazy plan. So, we're going

to go to the Arches tomorrow, disguised as the
slaves of what's-her-butt?

LAURA: Juuraiel?

TALIESIN: You've already made a sale, and you have
more back at the--

SAM: Sure. So, you're slaves, I'm a slave-master.
What do I look like?

LAURA: Whatever you want to look like.

SAM: No, I've got to look like a slave-master.
Senny, what would I look like?

MATT: "I would recommend not being a pink-skinned
gnome like yourself. Perhaps something that could

"live in this city."

LAURA: Like maybe an imp!

MATT: "An imp would be interesting."

SAM: An imp with jewelry and such?

MATT: "However, an imp would not be solo and would
probably still be behooven to the Nine Hells, and

"would work and be considered a subordinate to a
pit fiend. I would not recommend an imp."

SAM: Give me a thing.

LAURA: Something little.

MATT: "Perhaps an azer."

LAURA: What is that?

MATT: "Well, as you would consider, close to
them-- a dwarf. You may have seen a few." You've

seen a couple of strange individuals throughout
the city as you've walked by. They're dwarf-like,

they're thick, they're muscular. They look like a
dwarf, except for instead of hair and a beard,

it's fire. A wreath of fire across dark grey,
almost obsidian skin.

TALIESIN: Baby Ghost Rider.

LAURA: Awesome! Be one of those!

MATT: To give you a specific visual, to give you a
feel for what I'm talking about here, when I say--

TALIESIN: That's baby Ghost Rider!

LAURA: That is awesome!

SAM: I'm in.

LIAM: (high-pitched) Flames!

LIAM, TALIESIN, and MATT: (high-pitched) Flames on
the side of my face! Heaving, heaving breaths.

SAM: I'll make a mansion for the night. We'll all
take a rest and then go tomorrow.

MATT: "I was going to make some beds. We have--"

LAURA: Oh, that's so kind of you! But we have beds
that are specific to us, and we--

TALIESIN: Just the break from the heat is the only
thing that would force us to deny your

hospitality.

MATT: "Very well."

TALIESIN: But we will keep the door to our rooms,
of course, in your abode.

MATT: "Of course. We'll discuss soon our
arrangement. Good night."

TALIESIN: Why does he keep doing that?!

ASHLEY: Should one of us sleep in his house?

LAURA: No, nobody should!

TALIESIN: There's something wrong in it. There's
something in the basement.

TRAVIS: I have a quick request. Before I go to
sleep, can I try and find Pike and see if she will

teach me the alphabet, before my fox's cunning
wears off?

TALIESIN: That's the saddest thing I've ever
heard.

MATT: You go and find Pike in her room. She comes
to the door, already groggy, no pun intended.

Sorry about that. You open your door and you see
Grog standing there, looking a little sheepish.

ASHLEY: Grog, what's wrong?

TRAVIS: Yeah, look, I had trouble sleeping, and I
actually know Giant, but I can't read it. Do you

think maybe, before this fancy smart-potion wears
off, you could teach me some letters?

ASHLEY: Well, if we have a book or something, I
could. A Beginning to Read Giant, is there

anything like that where I could know what the
letters are?

TRAVIS: Well no, I don't see a lot of Giant, just
even Common or--

ASHLEY: Just Common letters? Yes, I can show you
the alphabet. I'll write it out. Okay? Do you know

how to spell your name? Okay. It's very easy. You
have four letters in your name, but there are two

of the same letter. So you really only have three
letters in your name.

TRAVIS: How many-- I'm not so hot on the numbers,
either.

ASHLEY: Okay, well, we won't talk about numbers.
Okay, what's the first letter of the alphabet?

This you know.

TRAVIS: G.

ASHLEY: That's the first letter of your name.

TRAVIS: Oh, it is!

ASHLEY: Yes, but that's not the first letter of
the alphabet. You've said it before. Ah--

TRAVIS: Ah-- I. Hey!

ASHLEY: Oh! It's the first letter, well, you wouldn't 
know that, because you don't know how to spell.

TRAVIS: Fucking A, this is tough.

ASHLEY: Oh! You said it!

TRAVIS: Fucking? A?

ASHLEY: A! A is the first letter of the alphabet.

TRAVIS: A. Ay. A. A.

ASHLEY: And we can keep going--

(laughter)

MATT: Okay, for the purposes of the narrative, you
spend the next few hours with Pike in your room,

beginning to learn elements of the alphabet of
Common. You go through enough of it where you pick

up some of it and as the potion fades, so does the
memory of the last three hours.

(yelling)

MARISHA: That's so mean!

MATT: This is Flowers for Grogernon. But it
wouldn't have mattered because the Common alphabet

and Giant runics are totally different things.

TRAVIS: Yeah, totally. I just wanted to know
something.

ASHLEY: Did I at least teach him how to spell his
name?

MATT: Make an intelligence check, Grog.

TRAVIS: Do I still-- no, it wore off, right? I
don't have advantage.

LAURA: You can do it, Grog! Roll a natural 20!

MATT: I'll say, as you feel the potion fading from
you--

TRAVIS: I burp, and I get a little bubble?

MATT: Sure. Go ahead and roll an intelligence
check.

TRAVIS: Oh, that's even worse. Aw, minus two,
fuck! Twelve.

MATT: You get "Gr--" and that's where it ends.

TRAVIS: My cursive is sweet. I'm so tired. You
know, I've learned all of these but I'm really

sleepy.

ASHLEY: We'll keep working on it.

TRAVIS: I'm not sure we will. But yeah, keep
working. Good night. Thank you, Pike.

ASHLEY: You sleep so well, okay?

LIAM: Smash cut to a year later where he's going,
"See. Kevdak. Run."

ASHLEY: No! That's so cute!

Before I go to sleep, I am going to cast
Lesser Restoration on myself, to maybe get rid of

one point of exhaustion.

MATT: Okay.

TALIESIN: Out of curiosity, sleeping outside of
the effects of the heat should make--

MATT: That'd the Greater Restoration, technically,
to try and--

LIAM: There's AC in here, isn't there?

TALIESIN: There's AC.

LAURA: In the mansion. Not in the studio.

(laughter)

MATT: Greater Restoration reduces exhaustion. But
you can do that as well.

ASHLEY: I'll cast Greater Restoration before bed.

MATT: Okay. So you reduce a level of exhaustion.

TALIESIN: I am going to send a little time working
on a couple things for the fort when we get back.

Netting ammo for the trebuchet, just a sketch. To
start to design a very simple bolo for the

trebuchet.

MATT: Okay. Just designing?

TALIESIN: Just penciling and then penciling-- I've
got a notion for a watch tower that's super super

simple. Platform for two people, tops, with a rope
that connects to a bell so when you start heading

down it, it goes (high voice) Fuck!

MATT: Great. All right. So, as you guys all come
to consciousness the next day, you gather your

things and you step out of the mansion into the
center of Senokir's shop.

MARISHA: Do we recover our point of exhaustion
when we sleep?

MATT: With the long rest, you recover a point of
exhaustion, so you'll all back to baseline,

including you, Pike, because your Greater
Restoration. Your spells are recovered, HP is

recovered, if there was any loss of it. So, the
day is yours, what do you wish to do?

SAM: Go to The Arches. The golden arches. Wait,
first we've got to cast Seeming.

MARISHA: Are we going to scout-- I guess we still
need Seeming.

ASHLEY: So we're all going to look like Vax?

LAURA: And Vex.

ASHLEY: And Vex. All the girls are going to look
like Vex.

LIAM: Three Vex's, I mean, it's kind of the same.

LAURA: I mean, yeah, but one's got boobs.

LIAM: Which one?

LAURA: Which one?

(laughter)

SAM: We're going, right? All right. So, yes, I'll
cast Seeming on everyone. Making them various

level heights of Vex and Vax, I guess.

(laughter)

LAURA: (shouting) This is awesome.

SAM: And they're slaves, right? They're slaves.
Tattered clothing.

LAURA: No. No, make us look like good slaves.

TALIESIN: Simple white robes.

SAM: All right. Simple tattered white robes.

(laughter)

LAURA: No, I want to look pretty.

ASHLEY: You're so rich, you want us clean.

LAURA: Make us clean, like pretty slaves.

SAM: You're clean. That's right. You're the best
of the best. You would have the best robes. Right?

ASHLEY: Like Princess Leia, Jabba the Hut.

SAM: Totally right. The best, finest simple
white.

TRAVIS: And we still have the neck thing.

SAM: Absolutely. And wait, am I making him
celestial-ish?

LAURA: Oh yeah, make his wings, when they come
out, like white wings.

SAM: Is that a celestial? What does a celestial
look like? Do they glow all the time?

TALIESIN: They have white wings, correct?

MATT: Most angelic entities have white or gold
wings.

MARISHA: Did we find out if I could Alter Self
wings?

MATT: You could not. It has to be the same
physical structure.

TRAVIS: Wait a minute. We don't want him walking
through the streets, to The Arches, as a

celestial. We want to get him in the house.

TALIESIN: When he pops his wings, the wings will
be gold.

TRAVIS: Yeah, we haven't started walking though.

LIAM: Can they be gold, delayed later, when they
pop out?

MATT: We'll find out.

LIAM: Oh, shit. Well.

ASHLEY: Can you hide them under a cape?

SAM: I don't know where you hide them normally.

LAURA: They only last for an hour.

LIAM: In my shoulder blades.

SAM: They're in you? Ew.

LIAM: Yeah, well, it feels that way.

SAM: Are you Wolverine?

TALIESIN: We are learning way too much about
everyone.

TRAVIS: So Seeming on everybody but Vax, right?

SAM: No.

LAURA: No. Why?

LIAM: The Seeming on us-- We look like us
already.

LAURA: It's just clothes, though.

TRAVIS: Have we headed to The Arches yet?

SAM: We're walking there right now.

TRAVIS: We're going to walk with a celestial in
the middle of the streets?

LAURA: No, we're saying we're not making his wings
look like that yet, dude.

MATT: You guys are not sure where The Arches are.

LAURA: Oh. Senokir?

MATT: "Yes?"

MARISHA: Should we maybe go scout the location
first as regular slaves?

LAURA, SAM and TALIESIN : No.

MATT: "What do you require?"

LAURA: Hi, where are The Arches?

MATT: "Do you require guidance there? Uten, why
don't you bring them to The Arches. I will not be

"joining you."

TALIESIN: That's very fair.

MATT: "I wish not to get involved with a pit
fiend. I will ask though, just to be safe, if I

"could have, of your choice, one small bauble to
remember you by. As we still have an arrangement

"to discuss, and knowing, to an extent, your
capabilities, there's a chance that you might

"escape without returning to me."

LIAM: Is that for memories or for some voodoo
shit?

LAURA: It's voodoo shit.

MATT: "It is to make sure that should you abscond
without upholding your end of the deal, I can find you."

LIAM: From each of us or--

TRAVIS: I can give him one of the Sandkheg
bottles.

MARISHA: No, it's okay. I Druidcraft a band around
his arm.

MATT: "Thank you. That'll die soon."

MARISHA: You can, like, preserve it.

TRAVIS: No, it's going to die, Keyleth. Don't--

MATT: "It'll still function. It just will be
lifeless. So, continue please. Stay safe."

TALIESIN: Okay.

SAM: Yeah, great.

TRAVIS: We go.

MATT: Uten is like, "Okay, follow me. I will lead
you." Even he is looking a little weird over at

Senokir.

SAM: And when I cast Seeming, I also cast it on
myself, making myself look like an azer?

MATT: An azer. The flaming beard dwarf.

SAM: Yeah, I don't know if I can make flames with
Seeming.

MATT: We'll say for the purposes of the illusion
you can pull off something that resembles flames

enough to the point where it should pass.

SAM: All right, great.

MATT: All right, so, as you guys walk out into the
city, you are lead by Uten on a similar path that

led you by the Pyriculum where you met Whaska,
but you continue past that in the northeast

direction heading towards, as he tells you as you
pass, near the naval grounds of the Sea of Fire.

Beyond that, you guys find the streets become wider
and the network of clusters of metal cages begin to

adorn portions of the center street islands.
Within these cages, you see humanoids of all

walks of life, creatures, beasts; it's a
collection, a veritable zoo of entities from all

the planes, all bound to various cages, chains,
and other elements, whereas efreeti individually

bark from top in a language you don't understand.
You see large banners and streamers set across

elements of the road to mark various segments of
this area, and at this point Uten turns to you and

goes, "Well, you have officially reached The
Arches. I will bid you adieu as I also will not

"want to deal with a pit fiend. Good luck."

LAURA: Wait, Uten.

MATT: (sighs) "Yes."

LAURA: So what happens? Are these all for sale
then and--?

MATT: "All the ones that do not look like they're
yelling for you to buy something. Most likely."

LAURA: Okay, and then other people come through.
So, if you like do the door thing here then this

could potentially be a market.

MARISHA: Is it okay to just set up shop?

MATT: "If you are convincing enough."

LAURA: Convincing enough?

LIAM: Do we need a shingle to put out front?

SAM: A sign?

LIAM: Flowers to make it look pretty?

TALIESIN: Keyleth, can you shape something?

LIAM: Oh my god, you look just like my sister! You
look just like me! That is fucking weird--

(laughter)

LIAM: I'm going to go stand over by Grog. I'll
talk to you later, never mind.

MATT: You go walk over to Grog and look up at a
much larger, slightly butcher version of yourself

staring down at you.

LIAM: Yeah! Slightly? Completely butcher!

(laughter)

TRAVIS: What's up, me?

SAM: Are we going to pose and start selling?

LAURA: I mean, we'll set up shop and only sell to
him.

MARISHA: I could also, theoretically-- I just
don't know well these things can see through other

things. I could do Hallucinatory Terrain right
around this and make us look like a little legit

kiosk. With a little entrance incorporating your
door.

SAM: How much can you change the--

MARISHA: I can control it as much as I want.

TALIESIN: Can you grow a gazebo?

LAURA: Yeah, but people will see the gazebo appear
out of nowhere.

TALIESIN: It's a magical tent.

SAM: What do we need to sell people? We just need
a slab to put them up on. To say, "Look here,

"there's this one for sale."

LAURA: Yeah, but we need the mansion door to get
him inside so we're not going to have us outside.

Are we?

SAM: Yeah, of course, we're going to have you guys
outside. How else are we going to convince him

that there is more good stuff inside?

LAURA: Oh, I understand.

LIAM: We're the showroom window.

TALIESIN: Can you grow a gazebo out of
grapevines?

SAM: Or just a stone slab? We don't need much.
Let's not break the bank.

MARISHA: I mean, I could do some Druidcraft but
that's minor. Growing a gazebo out of vines,

that's Plant Growth. I guess I could do Plant
Growth fairly instantly, without the full--

because it's a one or the other kind of a thing.

LAURA: I thought you said Hallucinatory Terrain?

SAM: Why do we need a fucking gazebo?

LAURA: Let's just fucking stand here.

LIAM: We don't want to look like Three Card Monte
guys with a cardboard box--

LAURA: What if we danced?

SAM: Matthew, what does everyone else have around
them?

MARISHA: I still feel like if we are a crowd of
slaves at a door--

SAM: What are the other kiosks? Are there any?

MATT: There are many scenarios in which you see
people being sold. You find elevated wooden

platforms, you find metallic stages that are being
lifted by slaves, held up, where the barker shouts

out among them. There are all sorts of
presentations, each person is trying to shout over

the other. Many of the various humanoids and
efreeti you see in the vicinity are all yelling

over each other and trying to catch attention.
It's this weird constant barking, almost auction

type atmosphere, where it's a lot of din, noise,
music, and voices shouting over each other. It's

also very crowded in this area. There are a couple
small parts, there's like an alleyway nearby

where there is a little more of an opening. Like
if there was a spot to set up it would be there,

if not there's-- probably could traverse the rest
of the vicinity of the slave market but currently

where you are that's the one space that's not too
close to an existing shop.

TRAVIS: Set up there.

LAURA: Yeah, set up there. Then Grog, you lift him
up and make him look super tall and we're doing

this around him.

TRAVIS: The celestial will sell itself. We don't
need anything fancy.

LIAM: In a row, in a row.

LAURA: In a row, doing the same move.

MARISHA: Can I Druidcraft some nice inviting
looking bushes?

TRAVIS: Shrubs?

MARISHA: Shrubs, yeah.

MATT: Sure, which will definitely catch attention
because no vegetation exists here for the most part.

MARISHA: Never mind, then.

MATT: I'm just saying it would catch attention if
you want people to look in your area.

TALIESIN: No, it will be fancy. I think it will be
fancy.

MARISHA: What?

TALIESIN: Plants where there are no plants is
fancy.

TRAVIS: What?

ASHLEY: And if a slave can do that, that's pretty
special.

TRAVIS: Maybe we wait until we see him so we don't
get unwanted buyers.

ASHLEY: Maybe you can do some flair as people are
walking by.

SAM: Should we sit here and wait for a while?

TRAVIS: Yup.

TALIESIN: Let's keep an eye out. Why doesn't
whichever one of us is the one that can be sneaky

and look around.

LIAM: We all need to be voguing.

TRAVIS: We're staying together.

LAURA: We'll look as we're voguing.

TALIESIN: All right. All right.

TRAVIS: We wait to see if the pit fiend shows
himself.

SAM: Can you guys all do like the Robert Palmer
video?

(laughter)

MATT: (singing) Simply irresistible.

LAURA: Do you want to give us instruments and
we'll all play something?

SAM: Sure, sure. I'll play a little ditty. We'll
jam to it.

MATT: There is a series of smaller buildings in
the area. There is the main street that runs

through here and across that street is where there
are many of the various slave blocks and larger

platforms set. You guys find the entrance to this
alley way, which curves around behind you and there

is a large wall that leads to another section
beyond that. This is where you begin to set up or

where you're planning to set up shop. So you guys
wait there for a while. Looking about, you can see,

most of the people that are selling slaves there--
some of them are humanoid, some of them are kobold

servants, some of them are worse for wear, looking
like they are hoping to get sold soon before they

expire. You do see, across the way, two young boys
maybe about 15 or so years old, light blue--

(laughter)

MATT: No, Scanlan, no.

(laughter)

MATT: Light blue skin and pupil-less. They are held
by red-colored chains and they look broken of

spirit and they are both sitting with a hunch.

LAURA: Aw, can we get them? Go get them.

SAM: Poor Nightcrawler.

LAURA: Go get them and see if we can get them.

TRAVIS: Are they celestials?

SAM: I am going to go over there and buy these two
kids? For what?

LAURA: Maybe and then we can set them free once
we're out of here.

SAM: All right.

TRAVIS and TALIESIN: What?

TRAVIS: No, leave them alone.

SAM: This isn't our fight.

TRAVIS: Stay on target.

SAM: Do one of you want to go over there and say
hi, slave to slave?

LAURA: Yeah, I'll go over there.

SAM: Yeah, sure, go on.

MATT: Okay, Vex, by the way, your alignment's back
up to Chaotic Good.

LAURA: Oh! (fake sobs)

MATT: That was the last little push there with
that instance.

LIAM: I murder an old lady.

(laughter)

LIAM: Welcome back.

MATT: All right, so what are you doing?

SAM: I'll walk over with her so it doesn't seem
weird that my slave is wandering around, I

suppose. I guess?

LAURA: Yeah, talk to the guy and I'll talk to the
slaves.

SAM: They have an owner?

MATT: Yeah, as you approach the two of them, with
the red chain around their necks and arms and they

are leaning over the edge of the small wooden
platform looking dejected at the ground. And

approaching them, the skin itself is like a soft
white porcelain with a slight translucent blue hue

to it, white pupiless eyes. They look human, but
they are beautiful and out of place here. Even in

their destitution, you can't help but be struck by
their presence. Both their chains are currently

locked to this stump that is in the center of this
wooden platform and behind it you see this

grotesque-looking dwarf in very fine clothing that
is very very dirty and old. He stands there

clutching the edges of his lapel going, "All
right, we've got here before you two, two I found

"and kept beneath my will. For sale. With angel
blood within them."

SAM: (French accent) Hello, I am slave master
Francois Australia and I am curious about your two

angel boys.

(laughter)

MATT: "Well, if you're looking to purchase, these
will both set you back about 10,000 gold apiece or

"18 for the set."

SAM: (French accent) What can they do? I would be
curious to find out.

MATT: (whispering) "Whatever the fuck they can do
I don't know. I wasn't selling them for their

"skillset. I was selling them for their
uniqueness."

SAM: (French accent) How do you know anything
about these boys? How did you get them?

MATT: "What's it to you, small one?"

SAM: (French accent) I like to see a chain of
ownership so I know that the previous owner will

not hunt me down and kill me in the night!

MATT: "There is no previous owner! I went and got
them myself! The chain of ownership is this chain

"right here." He points to the one on the stump.
You can see greasy black hair that is parted in

the middle, mustache comes down into a weirdly
fluffy beard that has weird oily portions of it.

He's an awful-looking dwarf. "So, are you going to
buy or shall I wait for the ones I'm looking for?"

SAM: (French accent) Which ones are those?

(laughter)

MATT: "Piss off."

LAURA: (whispering) Offer him 15 for the pair.

SAM: (French accent) (whispering) Merci. (normal
volume) Would you take 15 for both of them?

MATT: "Are your ears clogged? I said ten each or
18 for the bundle!"

SAM: (French accent) Yes, but you don't seem to
know where they come from, who they belonged to

before. It's a risk that is possibly worth 3,000
gold.

MATT: Make a persuasion check.

LIAM: This is how Sam wooed me in 2008.

(laughter)

SAM: Is this persuasion, solely? 20.

MATT: "Cash on hand? 15. (whispering) Don't tell
anyone I said that."

SAM: (French accent) Oui. Oh, slave, can I have
the gold?

(laughter)

SAM: (normal voice) Are we really going to do
this?

LAURA: Yeah, we are going to buy them. We are
buying them!

TRAVIS: We're taking in everything.

LAURA: They're so young! They're innocents.

TALIESIN: And then we have extra slaves, it's
beautiful.

MATT: "Haha. Well, it's been fine doing business
with you." He puts the coins away, pulls out a

piece of paper. "What's your full name?"

SAM: (French accent) Francois Bertrand Jean-Luc
Australia.

(laugher)

MATT: "Here you are. Transference of ownership."
Grabs the chains, unhooks them, takes the lock and

hands it to you. "They're yours to take. Now you
two shove off! Do what the man says."

SAM: (French accent) Do they have names?

MATT: "No! It's your choice to name them!"

SAM: Au revoir.

MATT: So as the two of you walk back with these
two chained boys who walk behind you--

LAURA: Do you speak Common?

MATT: (stuttering) "Yes."

LAURA: How did he find you?

MATT: "Well, we--" They both look at each other.
"It doesn't matter, it's you who own us now."

LAURA: It matters, dear.

TALIESIN: Let's not have this conversation with
them yet, sister, until all has been taken care of.

LAURA: Ugh. (retching)

TRAVIS: I see why we got them now. Even better
bait.

LAURA: Come stand over with us.

TALIESIN: What, sister?

LIAM: (retching)

MARISHA: This is what we are now.

LIAM: Grog, slap me really hard across the face
right now.

TRAVIS: Done.

MATT: Oh! He hits you and it's numb for minute.
You realize, why is the world sideways? He knocked

you to the ground.

LIAM: Sweet, sweet ignorance.

TALIESIN: Do you need a hand up, brother?

TRAVIS: Stop hitting yourself.

LIAM: I'm taking off a hit point.

MATT: The two children follow you back. They are
chained and you have them at your disposal. What

are you guys going to do?

TRAVIS: We're waiting.

SAM: We're just waiting, I guess.

LAURA: Do we have the mansion up?

SAM: Not yet. I'll say to the boys: You two, have
you been for sale for more than a day or two?

MATT: "He's had us here for three days. Sorry."

SAM: It's all right. In that time have you seen a
large red thing with big wings?

MATT: They both recoil, "No, no!"

SAM: Okay, all right. Thank you. We just wait, I
suppose.

LAURA: Yeah, I guess so.

SAM: You want to go buy a few more?

LAURA: No, no, no, sorry. I'm sorry.

ASHLEY: You could just say, Angels for sale!

LIAM: Wait, did you drop a bunch of gold on them?

LAURA: No! No, no, no, we got an amazing deal.

LIAM: Like how much?

LAURA: Like, 50 gold. It was so affordable.

TALIESIN: I want to do an insight check on that.

MATT: Go for it.

TALIESIN: Insight check, okay, that's 22.

MATT: Make a deception check.

LAURA: With my gold. Yikes, no, I don't win.

MATT: She is lying through her teeth.

TALIESIN: You're an idiot and I'm very proud of
you. Don't do that again.

LAURA: Don't talk to me right now. Just don't.

(laughter)

TALIESIN: What if I were to do a very strange
accent?

LAURA: No, also not attractive.

SAM: (Vex impersonation) What if you were to talk
like Vex?

LAURA: Don't! Stop.

(laughter)

LIAM: I have found, put your hand up here like
this when you're talking to them because Percival

sounds like Percival.

MATT: While they're talking, Keyleth, you notice,
across the way, the dwarf they had spoken to and

purchased these two from has packed up his things
and looks around, pulls a wand out, does a large

circle, and him and his kiosk vanishes.

LIAM: We fit right in.

MARISHA: See, there are a lot of pop-up vendors
here, guys.

TALIESIN: Good to know. So if you summon your
magical room--

MARISHA: Maybe you'll be more impressive.

SAM: Makes sense.

TRAVIS: Can I survey the road in the direction of
the embassy. Do we see anything?

MATT: Make a perception check.

TRAVIS: Natural one.

LAURA: Aw, man!

MATT: You look over in the direction of the
embassy and you stare at the embassy and from this

far away it's hard to make out the shape but--

TRAVIS: It looks like the letter ah--

TALIESIN: You only know two. Pick one.

(laughter)

TRAVIS: And I stay there.

TALIESIN: G and R, that's what you've got.

LAURA: That is so sad.

MARISHA: I could try and scry on him while we
wait.

SAM: Yeah, scry again.

TRAVIS: Nobody else wants to check the road?

MARISHA: There is an alley behind us that we set
up in front of?

MATT: Yes, there is an alley behind you for about
20 or so feet and then it curves off.

MARISHA: Does anyone seem to be behind the alley?

MATT: From what you can see currently, no.

MARISHA: Scanlan.

SAM: Oi?

MARISHA: Do you want to come with me back into the
alley for a little bit and watch, in case anyone

sees? You could be giving me a good firm scolding,
just in case.

LAURA: Scanlan should be visible at all times.

MARISHA: Well, it takes a minute to do the
Scrying.

SAM: Vax, Vex, don't argue, we'll get through
this. I mean, I'm going to go back with you so--

MARISHA: Stand guard, I'll be right back.

SAM: Sure, I'll stand watch.

MARISHA: I go back to a little dark corner and I
pull out the Scrying Eye.

TALIESIN: Pike--

ASHLEY: No, no, my name is Vex.

TALIESIN: Vex, sister, do you want to perhaps do a
walk around with the two boys and see if we can't

attract some attention?

ASHLEY: Sure.

SAM: We're splitting the party.

TALIESIN: I'm not getting far but I'm going to
take the two boys--

LAURA: You be careful with them.

TALIESIN: I'll be very careful with them. I'm
going to say, don't talk to anyone, don't look

anyone in the eye, and don't answer any questions
without my permission, do you understand?

MATT: "Yes."

ASHLEY: And don't be scared.

MATT: "Okay."

TALIESIN: I've got a plan, follow my lead. This
should be interesting.

MATT: As you guys begin to wander off with the two
boys, Keyleth, you hold the scry crystal in your

hand and, as you focus, you see this flash of heat
in your mind and then darkness again. The spell has

no effect.

LAURA: He's not even here.

SAM: Or he's blocking it somehow.

LAURA: No, I bet he's in the fucking Nine Hells
right now.

SAM: Getting some money to go and come to the
slave market.

LAURA: Yeah, he's probably sold all the people
that were hanging out with him last time.

MATT: Just so you're aware, the scry spell fails
if they're not on your plane of existence or if

they succeed their saving throw.

SAM: Ah!

TALIESIN: You can try again in ten minutes.

MARISHA: I can try again.

TALIESIN: I'm going to look around for something
interesting.

MATT: Okay, you begin to walk around, you hear the
barking of various heavy-throated creatures. You

come across this large, it looks almost like a
wolf or dog but the face is a little less

pronounced like a wolf and a little more humanoid
in the front, but it is still bestial and

monstrous. The coat is gray and matted and you can
see these long fangs protruding. It barks and

snarls but every single time it reaches for the
bars-- and the bars themselves look like a flimsy

wood-- but as it tries to tear at them or bite
there is a spark of arcane energy and it backs up

and seems to recoil from the attack and begins to
pace back and forth in its cage again.

TALIESIN: I try and discern who runs this
establishment.

MATT: You also see behind that, there are two more
cages that contain these very large insect-like

creatures that have very long bodies with multiple
legs, looks like a set of eight or so legs, almost

like an oversized praying mantis, the giant
pincers in the front, but they are currently

collapsed on the ground within their cages resting
in the heat. Behind them you see an individual

that appears to be a similar racial background as
Senokir, but is older with this red and graying

goatee that comes to a very defined point at the
end of the chin and is currently sitting, sipping

off of a wine skin and watching you. (slurp)

TALIESIN: Most humble greetings, good master.

ASHLEY: I'll bow as well.

TALIESIN: My sister and I have been sent by our
owner to peruse the market for things that he

might enjoy and I have been asked to inquire upon
the nature of what you're selling and your

suggested price. Never making eye contact.

MATT: "Very well. We have today, and today only,
two ankhegs for sale. Mind you, not bound. The

"will is yours to break. And one barghest at the
front. The prices: the ankhegs are 500 gold

"apiece, the barghest, 8,000 gold."

TALIESIN: My master is always interested in
creatures of unusual disposition and he will be

excited to know what you have for sale. I thank
you for your time. May I please leave your-- I've

lost my brain.

MATT: "Yes, please, go."

TALIESIN: I bow, I back off properly. What are you
feeding me in this cup?

(laughter)

MATT: As time progresses and you guys have been
wandering around, eventually the image does come

across your mind as you wish to-- You wanted to
Scry again?

MARISHA: Yeah, whenever I can.

MATT: Okay. Still no success, unfortunately.

TALIESIN: I'm making sure that the whole market
knows that there is someone perusing and

purchasing for unusual creatures and making sure
they see the weird twins and the two angelic-- I'm

making a show of it. And I'm making a show of our
non-chained obedience.

MATT: As it progresses, the actual twins, you
notice far up the way to where The Arches begin,

you see a sight you've been seeking this entire
time. You see a large, deep red entity begin

strolling down the street with its burly rippling
armored muscles, its giant red wings flared out

behind it, its horned head and crest piercing the
sky behind it as its burning eyes and fanged jaw

and mouth. He lumps forward with each step, and as
it does, you begin to see the essence of the

necklace that had been described previously,
dangling around its neck.

LIAM: Preemptive jenga.

SAM: All right, we go back to the sales area.

TALIESIN: We're not going to hurry. We're going to
meander so that maybe we get seen.

ASHLEY: He gets a glimpse, yeah.

LIAM: Can I tell you something really quick? I am super
impressed with you. That was very kind. That's it.

Get ready.

MATT: As you guys wait in the spot that you've
chosen, the pit fiend, as you've rightfully

designated it at this point, begins walking
through and slowly making its way through the

crowd. As it glances around, you can see it
strolling up to a few bars and running its claws

across. You hear the (clanking) sound of it--
thank you, Criss Angel. You see it running its

claws across the bars with a heavy (clanking). It
seems disinterested by many of the creatures that

it passes by.

MARISHA: Should I do something theatrical?
Magicky?

SAM: I'll play a song. (singing) Hot in the city,
hot in the city tonight! Tonight!

MATT: Make a perform check.

SAM: 23.

MATT: (heavy footsteps) It begins to eventually
cross paths with the alley where you guys are

situated. It turns its head and looks down to you,
with your flaming beard and fire-wreathed head,

playing your song. It slows its gait ever so
slightly. It is an imposing and frightening

entity. Even just being in its presence, even as
you play the best you can, you feel everything

almost slowed down in its proximity as its sheer
immensity passes you, leaving you in its shadow

for a momentary bit of time. In that moment, you
feel the back of your neck stand on end. All the

hairs immediately come to full point. You feel
cold and alone as it sets its eyes upon you. It

moves its gaze beyond and continues walking.

TALIESIN: I'm going to walk by with the slaves.

MATT: Okay, so you come by, the other direction,
as you guys finish your meandering. As you walk

by, it (footsteps stopping). Looks at the two boys
that you've procured and slows.

SAM: I'll call out to Percy: (French accent) It's
no use! No one has enough money for our slaves!

Forget it. We should clean up and go home.

TALIESIN: Of course, master.

ASHLEY: Of course, sir. We tried so hard.

MATT: The pit fiend has turned about and is
standing there with its arms crossed, watching

this transpire maybe halfway up the block where
you guys had set up. Its eyes narrow with a bright

spark of yellow light that situates where its face
is. (heavy footsteps) It saunters up in your

direction, looks over to where the rest of you
are, and where the two--

SAM: Is he coming over?

MATT: He's heading in your direction.

SAM: Okay, I'll summon the magnificent mansion
door, and I'll say to the slaves:

(French accent) All right, it was worth a 
try, but we must pack it in.

MATT: As you're saying this, the pit fiend puts a
hand up. Its mouth doesn't move but you hear a

voice piercing deep inside your head. It says,
"Stop. I have discourse to make with you, small one."

SAM: But of course. I am here to sell, if you are
here to buy.

MATT: "I have interest with your aasimar."

SAM: (French accent) They are for sale, for a good
price.

TALIESIN: I've already brought them into the
mansion. I've already handed them off and said:

Put them very far downstairs. Hide them.

MATT: You bring them into the mansion?

TALIESIN: Oh yeah. I've brought them into the
mansion and have put them downstairs. The servants

are taking them down.

SAM: (French accent) We have already packed up for
the day, but if this is a serious business

proposal, well, I can go in and fetch them.

MATT: The creature leans down toward you, the pit
fiend's very presence itself almost causing the

air to vibrate around you. Though it is not the
largest creature that you've faced, there is

something about its presence that is purely evil.
A bastion of power across all elements of the

cosmos that you haven't had stare you down at
this proximity. As it leans forward, the voice

once again pierces the center of your brain. "It
would do well to bring them forth."

SAM: (French accent) I cannot just communicate
with them. Would you join me inside my shop? There

you will see many other fine specimens.

MATT: "What is your price?"

SAM: (French accent) Well, you haven't seen what I
have to offer.

MATT: "I have seen enough."

SAM: (French accent) So you are not interested in
the naga, the goristro, the other celestial

beings? The orcs?

MATT: Make a deception check.

TRAVIS: Deceiving the devil, come on, baby!

SAM: 31.

LIAM: (airhorn noises)

MATT: "Perhaps in time, but now I seek the aasimar
in your possession."

LIAM: But I did the airhorn!

SAM: (French accent) If you please, and with due
respect, I do not see any jewelry or fineries on

your person. Can you afford such prices that I
will quote you?

MATT: As you say this, the eyes narrow. It leans
back as its head cocks slightly. "Have you never

"done business in this city before?"

SAM: (French accent) I'm afraid that I haven't.
But if you are serious, and it seems that you are

by the way that you are not moving your mouth--

MATT: He begins walking away from you.

SAM: (French accent) Wait! Would you like to come
inside with me and see them for yourself?

MATT: It has completely written you off and is
walking northward, back from whence it came.

TRAVIS: Quick, throw a price out!

SAM: (French accent) 30,000 apiece!

MATT: (footsteps) Slows its gait, turns around,
(footsteps) keeps walking.

SAM: (French accent) 10,000!

MATT: It stops. Turns around and starts heading
back toward you. (footsteps) The voice once again

pierces, this time even more intense, more
oppressive. You've seen shadow. You've never

really felt it inside you before. The voice itself
presses against your will. You hear it say, "Your

"price is acceptable. You know the Embassy is good
to pay. Present the charges, and I will take them."

LAURA: Can I come out and bow before Scanlan and
say, "Forgive me, master, for interrupting, but

"the female aasimar is fighting back."

SAM: (French accent) Well, put her-- ugh-- I'm so
sorry, sir. I must go deal with this. I don't want

to make you wait here. You are clearly a man of
respect.

MATT: "I will wait." It stays there, across the
way, with its arms crossed, about ten feet from you.

SAM: (French accent) I will be right back, I
promise.

LAURA: I know she is much more powerful than the
boys, but we cannot control her.

SAM: Did she use the magic?

LAURA: All of it, my master! All of
the magic!

SAM: Oh my god. Oh my god! I run into the
mansion.

MATT: I would like you to make a deception check
and you to make a deception check, please.

TRAVIS: (laughing) Did she use the magic?

SAM: Can I inspire myself? Can I, after I know my
roll?

MATT: Yeah, that's part of what's good about it.

SAM: Oh. Well, then fucking yes, I'll inspire
myself. That helps.

MATT: What'd you roll?

SAM: One.

MATT: That's an auto-fail.

LAURA: I rolled a 28.

SAM: Hey, she's good!

MATT: Well, as you charge in, and you're staying
outside of the door? You watch as the creature,

staring at Scanlan-- or his persona-- talk to you
and then charge through the doorway. The pit fiend

(sniffs) looks over to you.

SAM: Inside the mansion, I run up to Grog and I
say: Cut me! Cut my face, cut my arms, cut me.

Right now.

TRAVIS: Okay, I pick him up by the top of his head
and I do a one, two, three!

LAURA: While I'm outside, I say: Could I offer you
some refreshments, great master?

MATT: The voice echoes through your head in a way
that is genuinely the stuff of nightmares. You

feel your will crack slightly at its presence. It
says, "No."

LAURA: (small voice) Okay.

TRAVIS: I also spit in your eye so it starts to
water.

SAM: Great. I run out of the mansion. (French
accent) Oh my god! Oh! It's incredible in there!

She is so powerful! She cut me with her mind!
Please, come with me, I will need help with this.

MATT: The voice says, "Your deceptions are
angering and useless. If there is no business to

"be had, I will let the embassy know. You will not
have business in this city ever again."

LIAM: I slowly flex out my black wings, slowly,
and lower them, and take a step half-covering you,

and say, Are you all right, master? Do you need my
help?

SAM: I think so? I'll say to the young man: All
right, I am sorry to play these games and haggle

with prices. I will go fetch them immediately.

I'll go in the mansion and yell: Fucking jenga!
We've got to fucking kill this guy! We've got to

go kill him right now! Come on! Let's go!

TRAVIS: Well, we're inside. Do we want to set up a
sneak attack? Can we?

LAURA: It's too late!

TRAVIS: Why?

LAURA: Because he's outside, dude! I'm out there
with him. So is Vax.

TRAVIS: Who's inside the mansion?

MARISHA: We didn't really specify.

MATT: Yeah, you're in the alleyway still.

MARISHA: I'm in the alleyway with the twins.

LIAM: How are the twins and boss-man here arranged
in the alley, or outside the door?

MATT: The doorway is in the alley. It's right
where the alley meets the street. Keyleth is

behind the alley. The twins are on the sides of
the doorway, so you guys are along the sidewalk of

the street. Grog is inside, along with Scanlan,
Percy, and Pike.

LIAM: What's our proximity to him?

MATT: He's about 15 feet from you guys. He's
across the street, at this point, with his arms

crossed, keeping a distance.

MARISHA: 15 feet across the street?

SAM: I can go out with the two angels, get him to
come over and look at them, at least. Then you

guys can pour out? I don't know.

TRAVIS: You can bring them out in front of the
house if you want to. Then when he walks over we can--

SAM: Yeah, bring them up.

LAURA: I don't want him to hurt them.

MARISHA: I packed this, just in case.

SAM: You want to be an angel?

MARISHA: No, I packed Feeblemind.

LAURA: What does that do?

SAM: It could maybe work.

MARISHA: It's an 8th-level spell, and it makes him
stupid.

SAM: Can you look like an angel?

MARISHA: No. Well, I could use Alter Self.

LAURA: Can you make yourself step out-- no, I said
there was a female.

MARISHA: As one of the female aasimar?

MATT: You guys are having this conversation over
your earpiece?

SAM: No, but we're in the-- oh shit. She's not
there.

MATT: I was going to say. But you're in direct
line of sight to the pit fiend.

LAURA: So I'm not saying anything. I'm sorry.

MARISHA: This guy has to make an intelligence
saving throw.

SAM: All right, you do whatever you want. Give me
the angels. I'm going to go back out there.

MARISHA: Do you want me to try and make this guy
stupid?

SAM: Yeah, if you can! Do whatever you can! All
I'm trying to do is get him to stay long enough

for you guys to do something.

TRAVIS: Yeah, get him to come toward the door.

MARISHA: He's 15 feet away?

SAM: Are you inside the mansion?

MARISHA: No, I'm outside. I'm in the alleyway. How
many feet away am I from him?

MATT: From him right now? About 35 feet.

MARISHA: Is he aware of my presence?

MATT: You don't know.

MARISHA: I'm going to saunter further down the
alleyway. This has a 150-foot range.

MATT: Okay, so you pull even further back? Okay,
make a stealth check.

MARISHA: Ooh, that's good. 21.

MATT: Okay.

SAM: I've got the angels. I'm walking back out.
Right?

LAURA: No!

ASHLEY: I'll be behind them.

MATT: Okay, so Pike is coming out with the two
aasimar.

LAURA: Fuck.

TRAVIS: I'll exit the mansion too, and start
walking toward the embassy a few steps, slowly.

Just to get distance.

LAURA: I get ready. The minute, well, never mind.

MARISHA: Okay. So wait, what are you doing?

SAM: I'm going outside with the two angels.

MATT: So, you exit with the reddish chains in hand
and both of the boys exit with you. As soon as

they walk out of the portal and they see, across
the way, the pit fiend standing there with his

arms crossed, they both (gasps) you hear the
breath escape their lungs as the fear hits them.

The pit fiend's arms go lax. You can see a bit of
a smile on its face, now. It looks like its

pensive frustration in waiting has been expended.
The voice says, "You will be paid."

SAM: All right.

TALIESIN: Money first.

SAM: I don't want to fucking bargain with this
thing.

MARISHA: As he goes to hand over the chains, right
as he goes to reach for it, I'm going to do

Feeblemind.

MATT: Feeblemind, okay.

MARISHA: Jesus fucking Christ!

SAM: Don't miss and hit me, babe!

MATT: All righty, what's the DC on this?

MARISHA: He's got to make an intelligence saving
throw.

MATT: Correct, and what's your spell DC?

MARISHA: 19.

MATT: 19. Okay.

LAURA: Oh god. Natural one, natural one.

MARISHA: Come on, come on.

MATT: All right. As it takes one step forward
toward Scanlan, you, in the back of the alleyway,

extend your finger. You watch as this slight shift
of light travels forward, like a slight ripple,

almost like a miniature breaking of the sound
barrier. Strikes across the air. Seems to collide

with the front of the pit fiend. As it hits, the
energy (fizzling) dissipates, not affecting its

form. You watch as the pit fiend suddenly, its
attention--

MARISHA: He takes 4d6 psychic damage.

MATT: He does.

LIAM: Was Scanlan walking toward him, or had they
gotten right up against each other?

LAURA: I release Trinket from my crystal
necklace.

MARISHA: He saved from it, didn't he?

MATT: He does not appear affected by the ability.

MARISHA: He's not affected by the ability?!

MATT: I mean, he took damage, but the Feeblemind
did not seem to alter him.

LAURA: Are there any of the efreeti guards
around?

MATT: Currently, you do not see any. However,
let's go ahead and pick up this confrontation next

week. It's 11:00. If we jump into this now, we'll
be here past midnight.

TALIESIN: No, yeah, we're calling it.

MARISHA: Gives us time to think.

LAURA: We took too long.

MATT: It's all good.

TALIESIN: This got wonderfully bad.

LIAM: I'm going to forget by next week. Is Scanlan
walking toward him, or had Scanlan gotten right

next to him?

MATT: Scanlan stepped out of the door and walked
out just enough-- Scanlan is probably ten feet

from the door, there, right behind him, just
emerged from the doorway. He's about ten feet from

Scanlan, and 15 from-- Correct. I'll set up
the arrangement for next week. I'll put something

together for you guys so you know what we're going
to start with next week. But yeah, we're going to

jump in, next Thursday, into a mid-street City of
Brass battle.

LIAM: Sextuplets!

SAM: Vex, Vax, Vax, Vex, Vex, and Vax!

MATT: Here's the one thing I'm going to leave you
with, because I feel this is important. As soon as

you guys watch this slight dissipation of arcane
energy splash across the torso and head of the pit

fiend, and it steps onto its back foot, and you
all realize this is the Jenga moment. As you're

preparing to go into combat, you watch as the pit
fiend narrows its eyes and, from immediately to

its left, a small, localized gateway tears open
and out from it you watch a humanoid female with

large, red, feathered wings, carrying some sort of
glowing lasso or rope at her side, armor, and a

large weapon, with a bow slung across her
shoulder, flies out next to the pit fiend. "You rang?"

LAURA: Aw, fuck.

MATT: And that's where we'll pick up next week.

LAURA: We're doomed.

MATT: So, we'll see you guys next week. Thank you
very much. Thank you, Ashley, for coming and

playing.

ASHLEY: I won't be here next week.

MATT: You won't be here next week? Aw, you're
filming Thursday? Aw.

LIAM: What you going to be working on?

ASHLEY: I don't know. Stuffs and stuffs.

TRAVIS: Yay, Pike!

MARISHA: We'll get you that armor!

MATT: Well, guys, thank you very much. Have a good
night, rest well. Thank you, Loot Crate. Is it

Thursday yet? See you guys soon.

[music]