MATT: Hello, everyone, and welcome to tonight's
episode of Critical Role, where a bunch of us

nerdy-ass voice actors sit around, roll dice and
play Dungeons & Dragons. This week, not in

costume, to the joy of all of my players. So
welcome back. We're going to hop in here in a

moment, but first, let's get through our
announcements. First and foremost, this week's

sponsor is the continuation of Loot Crate being
our awesome sponsor.

(cheering)

MATT: Thank you so much Loot Crate. I think we
announced the new theme for this month's loot

crate last week, but Sam, if you would like to
give us a couple of words on our sponsor, please.

SAM: I am running out of things to say. So
instead, I composed a little song, and I thought

that Miss Ashley Johnson could help me with it.

ASHLEY: Okay?

SAM: I'm going to sing a couple of lines, and it
will be very apparent what the rhyming word is,

and you chime in with that. Little known fact,
Ashley Johnson, beautiful singing voice, she's a

soprano.

ASHLEY: I am! Yes, and?

SAM: Here's a song for Loot Crate. Okay. Ashley, I
need you to focus here. It's to the tune of the

Beverly Hillbillies. (singing) Well, yeehaw for
nerd swag, let's all give a big hoot. You get a

pretty crate and they fill it with--

ASHLEY: Loot!

SAM: Very good! (singing) With gear and apparel
that'll make you look real cute. You'll even be

attractive when your butt makes a--

ASHLEY: Toot!

SAM: Very good. (singing) Subscribe with the link
that pops up on your computer. With the dough that

you saved, buy some hot wings at--

ASHLEY: Hooters!

SAM: Very good. (singing) You'll be all hot and
bothered even if you're spayed or neutered. So

pull down your skirt, and stick that loot in
your--

ASHLEY: Cooter!

SAM: No! It's in your crate. You put your loot in
your crate.

ASHLEY: Oh, sorry.

SAM: That's disgusting. That's disgusting, Ashley.
Jesus!

MATT: That's really inappropriate.

SAM: Jesus, why would you stick it in your
cooter?

ASHLEY: It made all the sense.

SAM: Holy shit!

Loot in a Loot Crate. Good God! Anyway, magic
everyone. Sign up and use the exclusive promo

code-- Wait a second, there's a new promo code?

TRAVIS: It's new, yeah. Five dollars off Loot
Crate and Loot Crate DX if you use promo code

CHAOTICGOOD. All caps, one word.

SAM: Go check it out guys. I'm done.

LIAM: Sam Riegel, you are against the law.

TRAVIS: The code is only good for 48 hours.

SAM: Wait, is that true?

TRAVIS: It is true. 48 hours only.

SAM: I should read these before I do the ads.

TRAVIS: CHAOTICGOOD!

MATT: Thank you, Sam; I appreciate it. Ashley, you
really need to clean that mouth.

ASHLEY: You know, there is only one place to put
loot.

MATT: Really, keep it in your crate, guys, highly
recommended.

TALIESIN, LAURA, and ASHLEY: Keep it in your
crate.

MATT: #keepitinyourcrate. So yes. Thank you Loot
Crate for being our awesome sponsor. Other

announcements: BlizzCon this weekend! For those
who are going to be there, a number of us are

going to be there. There are panels Friday. Who is
going to be there Friday?

LIAM: Friday! There.

MATT: There you go. Me and Liam will be there
Friday. A number of other of us will be wandering

the halls.

TRAVIS: I will be in the bathrooms.

LAURA: Just hanging out.

MATT: Just chilling. Just looking to massage folks
as they come in? Taking tips?

TRAVIS: Ask if they need their hands dried.

MATT: So look for that at BlizzCon. Those of us
who have our schedules and have posted them on our

twitter, and will probably post it tomorrow as
well, so keep an eye out. Hope to see you guys

there. Also, new GM Tips went up today, on
YouTube. You guys can check it out; it's every

week Wednesday on Alpha and then Thursday on
YouTube. This week's episode deals with trying to

get your players to engage more in actual
roleplaying, in-character in your sessions. So go

ahead and check it out. Hopefully it will be
helpful for some of you new and old GMs out there.

And let us know what you think. Also, Marisha, if
you want to talk about the new Spotify playlists

that we have coming up here.

MARISHA: Oh yeah! We did those awesome playlists
like a year ago, and if you didn't know, by the

way, we did playlists about a year ago, each one
of us, for our characters. You should go and check

them out. They are deep somewhere in the Geek and
Sundry website.

LAURA: What's this?

MARISHA: Our Spotify playlists.

LAURA: Dude, they were so good!

MARISHA: They were really good!

LAURA: And they give really good background into
our characters.

MARISHA: Yeah, they actually give a lot of
insight, if you pay attention. So yeah! Go look at

our playlists, because we are going to be doing a
round two, starting next week. Because it has been

like 50 some odd episodes, and a lot of shit has
happened.

TRAVIS: Mine is just going to be animal noises.
(braying)

LAURA: What animal was that?

TRAVIS: You wish you knew. Check out the playlist
to find out!

LIAM: It's just 12 tracks of whale song? (whale
song)

(whale songs)

LIAM: (Grog impersonation) This is me when I'm
sad. This is me when I'm happy.

TRAVIS: He found a tape recorder.

MATT: It is all Sesame Street. All the time. All
right, well, awesome! Keep an eye out for that.

Starting next week, we will have info available on
the Geek & Sundry website and our Twitter, as soon

as that becomes available. Anything else that
anyone wants to announce? So glad you could be

here with us this week, Ashley!

(cheering)

ASHLEY: Very spur of the moment. That's it.

(laughter)

SAM: Are we going to do this thing at the break?
Is that happening? What are we going to do?

LAURA: Yes!

TALIESIN: Oh, that thing.

LAURA: So our critical costumes contest. We are
announcing the winners after the break!

LIAM: After we choose them on the break.

LAURA: No, we have all been looking at them. We
all have our personals, but now we have to fight

amongst ourselves and duke it out for the winner.

ASHLEY: We need to fight. We are having a real
battle.

TRAVIS: We have Nerf Guns.

MARISHA: And Jello.

TALIESIN: And sticks!

TRAVIS: You brought Jello?

MATT: It is going to be fantastic. For the record:
You guys are ridiculous!

LAURA: They are amazing!

MATT: Those costume entries, every single one was
amazing!

MARISHA: Yes.

TALIESIN: Cats.

MATT: There were cats in costume!

LAURA: Victor cat!

MATT: I can't even.

TALIESIN: Scanlan cat.

ASHLEY: Can we do one with just animals, sometime?
Like during the Westminster Dog Show?

TALIESIN: Just cats! Critical Cats!

LAURA: Critter Critters!

MATT: We have already lost control. This has
already gone. We are over it. We have peaked. We

are done.

TRAVIS: Also Talks. Talks Machina will be live
every Tuesday at 7:00pm on Alpha. Every week,

there will be like two to three of us on there,
answering questions, giving insight.

LAURA: When does it start?

TRAVIS: November...

ALL: 15th!

TRAVIS: It will be on there, and you can find out
all of the juicy details, who Grog is really in

love with. And you can follow @talksmachina on
(shouts) Twitter! There are so many cool things!

There will be gift giveaways and all sorts of
stuff.

MARISHA: Yay.

MATT: Thank you, Travis! It's exciting.

MARISHA: It's fun.

TRAVIS: Yeah, it's going to be fun. We are going
to haze Brian Foster every single week.

MARISHA: Oh no, he hazes us, man.

TALIESIN: Yeah, it was kind of intense.

LIAM: He's an OG D&D player, though, right? Like
decades of Dungeons & Dragons.

LAURA: Yeah, he's old school. He's old school.

LIAM: Always checking me in my rolls, on my
choices in the game.

LAURA: He's off-camera laughing at us.

LIAM: Who I talk to on any given afternoon. It is
all I hear about. I'll do what I want, Brian! It's

D&D!

MATT: So you can look forward to more of that on
Talks Machina.

TALIESIN: D&D: there's no wrong way to play except
our way.

MARISHA: Yeah.

MATT: Indeed. Well then, on that note, let's go
and bring us onto the happy day-glo lives of Vox

Machina right now, and Exandria, as we step into
tonight's episode of Critical Role

TALIESIN: Sparkle, sparkle, sparkle, friendship!

[dramatic music]

MATT: Hello, and welcome back. While we were away,
we learned much about the anatomy of the basilisk.

Thank you, Liam.

LIAM: Welcome!

MATT: All right. So bringing us into tonight's
episode. Vox Machina, in their attempt to take

down the Chroma Conclave, have slain three of the
five dragons. They've made a tentative alliance

with a fourth: Raishan, the Diseased Deceiver, in
the hopes of taking down the fifth, and most

powerful master of the entire Conclave: Thordak,
the Cinder King, who currently resides over the

now elementally corrupt city of Emon, with the
ground itself beginning to boil and crack with

fire elemental energy. You all sit within
Whitestone, deciding upon the coming rush to the

final battle, considering what allies you have at
your disposal, what locations you want to put this

battle in. You've had these conversations. You've
revealed Raishan to the rest of your allies within

Whitestone, and you've previously spoke about
taking this to Fort Daxio to the north of Emon.

And that was where we last left off. As you finish
your conversation with the rest of your current

temporary council on the ziggurat beneath
Whitestone, you've made the choice of Fort Daxio

as being your next grounds of conflict. What do
you wish to do?

(laughter)

SAM: You think we finished our conversation,
but we have about an hour of more talking to do.

(laughter)

MARISHA: What if we get an airship, and put the
ziggurat inside of it?

SAM: Oh, okay!

LAURA and TALIESIN: What?

ASHLEY: I have an idea!

(laughter)

LAURA: We should go to Fort Daxio then. And talk
to them.

SAM: Did we need to send word to all of our allies
that that is where we are going? Has that been

done already?

MARISHA: I feel we need to scout the location
first?

TALIESIN: Let's scout first, let's head there and
then if everything seems copacetic.

SAM: How do we get there?

TALIESIN: By airship!

LAURA: By the fabulous Keyleth.

MARISHA: Let me scry, then we will bamf through a
tree. Sound good?

LAURA: Can you scry here though? We are by the Orb
of Death.

MARISHA: No, we have to go.

SAM: Hold on! Let me go get Pike.

MARISHA: Yes!

SAM: I got her, guys! She's here!

ASHLEY: Hey! Oh man!

TRAVIS: Oh, Pike. Good to see you. High five!

SAM: Wow! We almost left without her.

ASHLEY: Wait, so he said we were going to Fort
Daxio?

LAURA: Yeah. We are totally going to Fort Daxio.

ASHLEY: Okay! That sounds--

LAURA: That's where we are going to amass our
forces. Potentially.

ASHLEY: I think it is a great idea. On our walk,
we talked about it, and I think that it is a

really good idea.

TRAVIS: The Monstah has spoken.

SAM: Now it's unanimous.

LIAM: Sure.

SAM: Wait, can she scry? Do you need to scry? Do
we have scrying things?

MARISHA: I can scry. Yeah. I got my Scry Ball.

MATT: Who are you scrying?

MARISHA: I am-- Do we know someone in Fort Daxio?

TALIESIN: We do! We do.

LAURA: We do?

TALIESIN: Because your--

LAURA: My shit father?

TALIESIN: Yeah, your shit father.

LAURA: Yeah, he knew somebody there, but I don't
remember who it was.

TALIESIN: Oh, shit. Hold on.

SAM: But wait! Anyone from like when we were with
the 'fugees? The refugee camp? Didn't some of them

go to Daxio?

LAURA: Oh! Oh! What about that guy that was
running the refugee camp? The leader! Bernard, or

Reginald, or--

MARISHA: Well, Reginald is dead.

LAURA: Not Reginald.

TALIESIN: Most of our friends are dead, let's be
fair.

LIAM: Yeah, we have met a lot of dead people.

LAURA: What was his name? Bernard?

MATT: Who are you referring to?

LAURA: The guy who was running the refugee camp
that was like a blacksmith, not a blacksmith, but

he had stepped up to--

SAM: Wait! Rothfuss?

LAURA: No.

LIAM: No. I know who you're talking about.

LAURA: Yeah. We found his brother? His son?

LIAM: When we left the orc camp, and we headed out
into the snow--

MATT: Oh!

LIAM: It was close to when we found Tyriok
without an arm.

LAURA: They were heading to Fort Daxio, weren't
they?

MATT: I don't recall if they were heading to Fort
Daxio.

MARISHA: This was after the goliaths?

LAURA: Yeah.

SAM: This is the part of the show where we look
through our notes.

LIAM: It's D&D! It is a Dungeons & Dragons game.

TRAVIS: You guys actually write notes? I just draw
pictures.

TALIESIN: They write notes. I draw pictures.

LIAM: I listen to them read their notes.

TRAVIS: Oh, good.

ASHLEY: I look over her shoulder and read her
notes.

LAURA: Well, they're empty right now.

SAM: Mine are terrible! Arbiter Brom?

MATT: No!

SAM: Tristan the cleric? Gern Blanston?

(laughter)

SAM: Spireling Shenn?

TRAVIS: Orc skull?

LAURA: But you know who I'm talking about. Yeah?

MATT: This will be Cornelius. Maybe? I'm trying
to--

TALIESIN: Wow!

TRAVIS and LAURA: Cornelius.

SAM: Oh wait! I got it, I got my page! Cornelius!
Leader of the refugees. He is a bookbinder. Drez

Vena! Magic guy. Elowen, the mom. Simon, the son.
These are people who were in Daxio, right?

MATT: No, these are people who were sent to
Kymal.

SAM: Shit balls! Master Quall?

MATT: Also Kymal. Or Westruun. One of the two.

MARISHA: Do we not know anybody at Fort Daxio?

MATT: No one that you know of. Fort Daxio--

LAURA: Is Allura still here? Is Allura still
around?

MATT: Allura is still around.

LAURA: Allura, do you know anyone in Fort Daxio?

MATT: "Unfortunately, the one member I know is the
Warmaster, Mikael Daxio, the father of Riskel. But

"as far as I know, he is currently sealed off in
Syngorn with the rest of the army."

LAURA: Right. Shit.

MARISHA: Okay, hang on, wait. Is Fort Daxio near
Syngorn?

LAURA: No. The army, remember, part of the army
got sent to Syngorn, and then Syngorn bamfed

away.

MATT: Yeah. Three of the regiments in Fort Daxio
were sent to Syngorn, with the supposed dragon

incursion in the Stormcrest Mountains. Most of
them went with Syngorn when it got pulled back to

the Feywild, and one regiment still remains at
Fort Daxio. Fort Daxio is north of Emon.

MARISHA: Are there any guards from Emon here?
Because the guards were also the guards from Emon

went to Syngorn. So maybe someone in one of the
guards knows one of the guards in Fort Daxio.

LAURA: This is a lot of work.

MARISHA: Yeah. Is there an easier way to go about
this?

MATT: You could ask around?

MARISHA: I am going to go and see if I can find
one of the Whitestone guards.

MATT: Make an investigation check.

MARISHA: Oh! I am not good at these. I think that
it's a 12; let me double check my investigation.

I don't do this a whole lot. Yeah, 12.

MATT: Okay. You spend the next 30 minutes asking
around for various guards, and the few that you do

know that are from Emon are like, "I don't really
know anyone from Daxio. It's very regimented. I

"wasn't interested in the military, I wanted to
more sit around the city and get paid to wear armor."

MARISHA: So they're more militant? Or like, the
army?

MATT: "It is where the military is, yeah."

MARISHA: You don't have any army friends? Are
there any army friends here?

MATT: "I think there are a few here that at least
might know that, but I am not one of them. Sorry."

MARISHA: Where? Where? Point me.

MATT: (shouting) I don't know! That way!

MARISHA: (shouting) All right! I go that way!

MATT: Keyleth spends the better part of the next
hour or so without luck, unable to really find

anyone to match the description from before.

MARISHA: Guys, this sucks! We don't know anyone in
Daxio!

LAURA: Should we just fucking go there?

LIAM: This is like when you're on a level in a
video game, and you run around and around and

around. You can't find that thing that triggers to
the next section of the video game.

SAM: Wait, Gilmore knows everybody. He must know
someone in Daxio.

LAURA: I don't know if he knows army people.

LIAM: Well, he knows a lot of people.

MARISHA: All right. If Gilmore doesn't know
anybody, then we are going to the nearest

location, and then we're hoofing it.

LAURA: Yeah.

SAM: Kraghammer is near-ish.

MARISHA: All right, let's go talk to Gilmore.

LAURA: That's true.

MATT: Okay. As the rest of your council has
essentially scattered throughout Whitestone Castle

since your meeting, Gilmore is easy to find,
beginning to make his way out of the castle down

towards his homestead, and prepare what he has for
the coming struggle. So as you intercept him

walking down the outside, he says: "Oh, hi! I'm
sorry. What did you need?"

SAM: Do you know anyone in Fort Daxio? Please say
yes.

MATT: (chuckles, sighs) "You know, I believe I
have had a couple of people come through my

"establishment."

TRAVIS: Is that what they call it? "Come through
my establishment?"

TALIESIN: Yes, that is exactly what they call it
when you have an establishment.

MATT: "That is actually exactly what they call
it, Grog."

MARISHA: I mean, we don't necessarily need to know
anybody if you happen to know a very fast way to

get to Daxio.

MATT: "I mean, there are magics that can get a
person there quickly, but--"

LAURA: Are there trees? Are there lots of trees?
It's grassland.

LIAM: Shaun, could you send one of us there? Is
that possible by any chance?

MATT: "Let me think."

LAURA: One? Why one?

LIAM: Because if one of us goes with the
Gatestone, Keyleth can jump over, she can see

trees there, she can tree her way back here. I
mean, I don't know; I'm spitballing.

LAURA: It seems like a really long process--

LIAM: Yeah, all right. Where's your great idea?

LAURA: Well, one of us goes there, finds a tree
and then bamfs back, and Keyleth brings us all over--

SAM: No, Keyleth can scry on you once you're
there, and see the tree.

LAURA: Fabulous. Send one of us over there.

MARISHA: Yeah! Yeah.

MATT: He says: "Well, I can't. But Allura might be
able to help with that. Ask her?"

MARISHA: All right. Back to Allura.

SAM: (sings Yakety Sax)

LIAM: Chickens with our heads cut off, eh?

TRAVIS: In and out of the doors.

TALIESIN: Like a Monty Python animation. Back and
forth.

MARISHA: Trip three times.

MATT: Exactly. Apparently, Gilmore doesn't seem
to have access to the type of translocation magic

you're asking about.

MARISHA: All right.

MATT: You eventually find your way to Allura in
Whitestone Castle, who is currently having a

conversation with Cassandra. She turns back to
you, and as you ask the same question, she

responds with a: "I actually do have prepared-- I
can bring up to eight other individuals with me."

LAURA: Oh! How perfect!

TRAVIS: Wait, wait. One... Somebody else do this.

LAURA: We're good.

ASHLEY: I think we're okay. It's just right.

MARISHA: Are you fine doing that?

MATT: "Yes. I can only go there, so we have to
have some way of returning, which I believe you

"can handle that. All right?"

MARISHA: I can get us back, yeah.

MATT: "All right. Then whenever you are ready, I
suppose."

LAURA: Great.

LIAM: Now's as good a time as any. Yeah.

MATT: "All right, gather round." She puts her arms
out and gestures for you to reach in like a hand circle.

ASHLEY: Come on Grog.

SAM: Are we taking Kima?

LAURA: Kima! Can we take Kima?

SAM: Do we want to take Kima?

MATT: "Of course! I have to go get her"

LIAM: One too many though, isn't it?

LAURA: No. This is perfect.

LIAM: I swore she said eight. Or eight along with
her?

MATT: "Eight along with me."

TRAVIS: We're just reconning.

LAURA: Yeah, it's fine. Let's just go.

LIAM: You know, we always take her and leave you.
Why don't we flip that?

MATT: "Just don't tell her. She gets a bit testy
when she's not included. All right, very well."

She takes your hands. Some of you close your eyes,
some of you don't. That familiar rush of warmth

underneath your stomach begins fill--

TRAVIS: (fart noise)

MATT: Your chest cavity... (laughs). Grog poots
out the side and it distracts you momentarily,

before you watch the ground beneath you; this line
of blue arcane energy begins to link each one of

your feet together in a circle. As it does, these
star-like extensions begin to appear out in the

center, and as soon as they all meet into one
crystalline structure, there is a flash of light.

Your vision goes white, and as it slowly adjusts
to the daylight, this light breeze soothing you,

you look around and see yourselves now standing in
the Othendin Pass, which is this large rocky

ravine that rides up on each side of you to these
tall, cliff side edges of the very very southwest

side of the Cliffkeep Mountains. This is far north
of Emon. While you see the ground itself is very

cracked land, you can see dry and long dead
bushes, you can see bits and pieces of dead trees

that have for a long time been petrified, broken
over or been left without much of an actual

fertile ground to exist in. You glance off to the
eastern side of your direction, and you can see a

very large cluster of reddish-brown trees; a
forest there that has long died, or at least

is definitely in the fall season type of color
change. But the vegetation around here is very

sparse, very scrub and in some cases very dry and
dead. You do see to the immediate northwest of

your current location, clinging to the side of the
mountain cliff, what you assume is Fort Daxio: a

massive stronghold, built of gray and brown stone,
an outer wall perimeter that completely surrounds

it, buttressed against each side of the cliff, and
within, you can see a multi-tiered fortress

structure within, built specifically for defending
against any sort of army siege or incursion.

LAURA: Wow, that is way bigger than I expected it
to be.

TALIESIN: That's what I'm talking about.

TRAVIS: Can I check the skies? Anything flying
around?

MATT: Make a perception check.

TRAVIS: Hey! This will go well. Three!

MATT: You begin to look up, and you see a small
bird, and it's really small and it'ss really

cute, and your eyes watch it, and you watch it
fling off that way.

TRAVIS: (gasp) Pike!

ASHLEY: Oh lookit.

TRAVIS: What?

ASHLEY: It's a little--

TRAVIS: It's tiny right?

ASHLEY: It's so cute.

TRAVIS: Yeah, he chirps I bet.

ASHLEY: It's a little thorbilly.

(laughter)

TRAVIS: Can you make thorbilly land on your finger
like a Disney princess?

ASHLEY: Can I? This is so dumb. Yeah, I'm going
to try.

SAM and TALIESIN: Animal handling check!

MATT: I was going to say. Make an animal handling
check.

LAURA: Wow! Have we ever rolled this?

SAM: One! We have done one.

TALIESIN: We have done one?

SAM: One. I don't remember why, or who did it.

LAURA: Oh my God, you've got really good animal
handling!

ASHLEY: Well, all right!

TRAVIS: And you rolled a dick.

LAURA: Is it a dick?

ASHLEY: It 's a four. Okay, nine.

MARISHA: That's kind of a dick.

MATT: You make three (clunks) clomping plate armor. Pike
steps before the bird--

[no audio]

MATT: Into the sky.

ASHLEY: It was a baby thorbilly. They're a little
more shy.

TRAVIS: Yeah, no yeah. He was very scared.

(laughter)

TRAVIS: It's all right. Next time.

LAURA: Does it look like anybody's in the fort
looking down at us? Are we far enough away?

MATT: Make a perception check. You're a few
hundred yards away.

LAURA: Fucking shit balls. 16.

MATT: 16. Okay. Best you can tell, you do see some
shapes along the top of the outer battlements; the

wall that surrounds the structure. However, from
this distance, you're not sure if they have seen

you yet.

LAURA: All right.

LIAM: Best you can tell, it's shit-balls.

LAURA: It's shit-balls up there. Just lots of
shit.

MARISHA: What's a shit-ball?

SAM: Hey, if we walk up to the fort, what's our
cover story?

TALIESIN: No cover story. We tell them who we are
and what we're doing here.

SAM: We're dragon fighters bringing the fight to
their town?

LAURA: We're not bringing the fight here.

SAM: We are looking to fight here.

LAURA: Oh shit, we are. That's the plan, that's
my plan

LIAM: It's not a town. It's--

TALIESIN: It's a fort.

SAM: Well, whatever it is, I don't think we
should tell them that we're dragon fighters bringing

the fight to their fort.

MARISHA: Well, actually, that's a good point.
Whose fort is this?

LAURA: Daxio's, who's in Syngorn. No, it is!

MATT: Well, that is the warmaster, who has been
assigned by Emon. This is technically where the

majority of the military of Emon is stationed.

MARISHA: So this is Emon's military? Not
Syngorn's.

MATT: Yeah, this is Emon's military.

LAURA: And we have got Allura with us; she's on
the council.

TALIESIN: And they are at war as well.

ASHLEY: This is already going well.

LIAM: We're protecting the world.

LAURA: Super good.

MARISHA: Well, yeah. If this is for Emon, then it's
for Emon.

TALIESIN: This is specifically where you want
things to attack, as opposed to towns.

LAURA: But they might be skittish, so we should
probably have a little protection as we go up there.

MARISHA: Do we have any idea on who we're talking
to?

LAURA: Dudes. I think their commanding officers
are in Syngorn. For the most part.

TRAVIS: Do we need a white flag as we
approach?

LAURA: Sure.

LIAM: Do you want to hold up Pike, as we walk
closer?

ASHLEY: I can whip my hair.

ALL: (singing) I whip my hair back and forth. I
whip my hair back and forth.

MATT: Yeah, it's 5th-level, you can do that.

(laughter)

MATT: As you guys begin to approach the outside of
Fort Daxio, you can see a number of the figures on

the wall beginning to move faster and gathering at
edges. You can see one of a few defensive ballistae

being locked in. Allura begins stepping into the
front, and she puts her hand out and says: "Don't

"worry, let me do the talking for this."

SAM: Ooh, okay!

MATT: As you guys begin to approach the gate, you
hear a small horn give off this arrival

notification. This: (pathetic horn noise). But
deeper and much cooler sounding than that.

(laughter)

LIAM: (air horn)

ASHLEY: (air horn)

TRAVIS: Come on, man!

MATT and SAM: (air horn)

MATT: Because I am not a war horn.

MARISHA: I imagine a kid with a kazoo.

(laughter)

ALL: (kazoo)

TALIESIN: (deep and cool horn)

TRAVIS: Of all the sounds you could make!

MATT: Fort Daxio is very sparsely run right now.

SAM: All their horns were broken in the war.

MATT: They left the regiment behind with a small
conch shell that is partially broken.

TALIESIN: Piggy's got the conch.

LAURA and ASHLEY: (pathetic horn noise)

LIAM: Did we just find your Achilles Heel?

MARISHA: Horn noises?

LIAM: Man of a thousand voices: animals,
creatures-- can't do horns.

TALIESIN: And no horns.

MATT: (deep and cool horn sound)

(cheering)

MATT: There you go! To make you happy.

LIAM: I don't do horns; they sicken me.

MATT: That's more hit points on Thordak. Just keep
a tally. All right. As you approach, and begin to

gather and Allura steps forward, she takes a few
more steps and then stops, puts her other hand up

to give you a signal to hold back. She speaks out
across the expanse: "Arcanist Allura Vysoren,

"member of the Tal'Dorei Council, here with allies
to speak with who resides within. Will you allow

"us passage?" There's a pause. You hear the sound
of the ballista crank being loosened. And

then you see the two front gates slightly open.
She puts her hands down. "Very well, walk with me."

LAURA: They didn't even check us out; just letting
us in. Be on your guard. They're too trusting.

SAM: Okay.

MATT: As you guys approach the gates and begin to
walk through, you can see there is about 15 guards

stationed above the top that all have cocked
crossbows, that are trained on you guys--

LAURA: Never mind!

MATT: Not directly ready to fire, but cautiously
watching you as you progress. Allura leads

through, leading you guys into the main entryway,
and as you walk into this front area, the

pseudo-courtyard or central area between the wall
and the stronghold itself, the same cracked

exterior. But you can see there is a trebuchet
over there. There are countersiege weaponry. Some

of it unused for a while and probably in need of
some level of repair. You do see a number of other

armored individuals, and the armor you see on the
military stationed here is much more than the

armors of Emon, or any of the local guard that you
are used to. These are very heavy, regimented

plate, tower shields, you can see spears that are
very nasty looking and very strong in

construction. A lot of these almost resemble a lot
of the dwarven make you saw in Kraghammer before.

So whether this is an alliance through Kraghammer
and Emon that came to this, or the design was

borrowed to some extent, a lot of the armor is
more square and bulky than the more refined armor

you have seen in more southern areas of the
Tal'Dorei continent. Immediately, as you step in,

while the guards still have their weapons trained
on you on the other side of the wall, you see ten

individuals approaching, armored. You can see
these individuals, their shields are large, heavy

tower shields, with a goldish, circular symbol on
the front that has an inlay that's almost like a

polished mirror. Like, a big old oval mirror as
part of the center shield itself. As these armored

individuals approach, one of them in the center
has her helm off, and seems to be leading this

push to greet you at that front. You see a woman, very
stern look, dark skinned, very short ebony hair

and a very tough, dour expression on her face as
she quickly brushes up towards the front, and as

she steps forward, she slams her shield into the
ground, and gives a nod as the rest of the

soldiers stop. She bows her head, and goes:
"Allura. We finally have answer from the council.

"It's been silence for weeks." Allura bows her
head, and says, "Well, General, let me introduce

"you to our allies here. These are Vox Machina.
They are friends. They are--" And the general

breaks once more into the conversation, and says:
"That's fine! So you are here with your allies.

"Any word from Mikael? Any word from the rest of
the regiments?"

LAURA: They're in Syngorn.

MATT: "Still? In Syngorn?"

LAURA: As far as we know.

MATT: "All right. Well." (sighs) You see the
tension that's been building in her since she

approached you guys begins to slowly fade with this
sense of digesting the difficulty of the

situation. There's an awkward pause and Allura
says, "Can we speak in less--" She looks up at the

rest of the battlements, "--less armed circles, if
you don't mind?" The general looks up and nods.

"Very well. My apologies. I am General Elle
Gorgofon."

LAURA: Elle Gorgofon?

MATT: "Elle Gorgofon. I am the commander of the
Aegis Regiment and I welcome you, for the time

"being, to Fort Daxio. Follow me." She turns on her
heel and begins to march at a very brisk pace back

towards the stronghold itself. The other soldiers
turning around as well. Allura gives you all a

head nudge to follow suit.

SAM: Okay! Yeah! Let's go. This is going great. We
haven't even done anything wrong yet.

TALIESIN: Give us time.

MATT: As you're walking around, Keyleth, Vex, and
Vax, looking over the number of soldiers that are

here, you have roughly 20 or so you see on the top
of the wall, maybe 25 to 30 that occasionally are

stepping around the base of it or the interior of
this main courtyard. For the entirety of the army

of Emon, the regiment that's here, doesn't seem to
be very busy or very well--

MARISHA: Stocked?

MATT: Staffed. There aren't a lot of people here.
This regiment is not extremely large. It looks

like this may be the defensive regiment that was
left behind to guard the fort, when other

regiments are sent out on whatever duties.

MARISHA: You said we saw 40?

LAURA: 50 people.

MATT: 40 to 50 soldiers on the outskirts of the
stronghold. You don't know how many are inside

necessarily.

TRAVIS: It's like the Alamo.

MATT: It's fairly lightly guarded right now.

TRAVIS: Which ended well.

TALIESIN: It depends on who you ask, really.

MATT: As you guys enter the stronghold, it's
beautiful in its construction. It also looks like

it's been in some level of disrepair. It's
definitely built for function. The furniture and

decor on the interior is very simple, very
pragmatic. It is made for function more than

presentation. You're led through two small
hallways to the right to one central chamber where

there are a series of benches and chairs, whatever
has been assembled to the area and pulled to the

center area. It would be considered a conversation
room or war room in some circumstances, but it's

very haphazardly thrown together. You also do
notice that there are a couple of rooms that have

a foul stench, and as you glance off to the left
into the inside, you can see there are piles of

folded dark material.

LAURA: Toilet paper.

(laughter)

MATT: It's your favored terrain. But you guys are
led into this main chamber.

SAM: Do we just pass by those things?

MATT: As you begin to walk by, you glance over and
see it as you go.

LAURA: Can we see what it is? It looks like dark
folded material?

MATT: If you want to stop and look behind, you can
have a closer look. It's a hide-type material. It

looks folded, and then as you walk in, you can see
it's actually a series of piled corpses of some

sort of leathery creature or creatures that have
been pushed into an area there.

TALIESIN: I'm going to take this moment to change
out my attunement for my gloves from my sword. I'm

going to put my gloves on and unattune to my
sword.

MATT: Okay.

LAURA: General, how many soldiers does this fort
support?

MATT: As she enters the chamber ahead of you and
turns around and sits in her chair, her shield set

to the side. "We currently now, as the Aegis
Regiment, have a grand total of 225 soldiers."

SAM: Pretty good.

LAURA: And how many can be here?

MATT: "As far as all the regiments?"

LAURA: Yeah.

MATT: "We're looking at, between how many survive
or return from Syngorn, close to 2,000."

LAURA: (quietly) All right.

SAM: So you have 225 here currently?

MATT: "We do."

SAM: And how is morale? Everyone have enough
supplies and ready to defend the fort if needed?

MATT: "To be perfectly honest--" And the door
closes behind you as two of the guards step in

front and watch it as you all find your seats or
at least stand in the space. General Elle goes,

"To be perfectly honest, we are very low on
supplies. Any of the trade routes to and from

"Kraghammer have been constantly harried by wyvern
riders. We've had to defend our location a couple

"times by some errant wandering sentinel wyvern
riders. It's been-- (sighs) We're on the edge of

"starvation."

TRAVIS: Shit. Pardon my bluntness, but any flybys
by Thordak himself?

MATT: "Thankfully, no. He would tear into this
place in but an instant. We only have bits of

"information we've had from few scouts we've sent
southward. We've had some conversations to and

"from Emon, but only half of them have even
returned, and those that have say that it's a very

"dire situation, so we've been awaiting any word we
can from Mikael-- sorry, from the Warmaster-- and

"nothing. So as far as I know, and have known, we
are on our own and left possibly to die while the

"rest of this entire country burns to the ground.
So seeing some seemingly friendly faces--" And she

nods towards Allura, "--is the best news I've had
in a very long time."

LAURA: In your Warmaster's defense, it might be
beyond his control to get back here.

TALIESIN: Things are dire.

MARISHA: Thordak is changing the entire landscape
to be very similar to the Fire Plane.

LAURA: And he's stuck in the Feywild.

MATT: "Who's stuck in the Feywild?"

LAURA: The Warmaster, here.

MATT: "Mikael?"

LAURA: Yeah, Mikael.

MARISHA: All of Syngorn, actually.

SAM: Are we telling them this?

LAURA and TALIESIN: Why not?

MATT: "Well, at least I know that they weren't
wiped out, and that's good news. But still, we're

"not enough to even attempt an incursion on Emon by
our own."

TALIESIN: Well, that is true, and that is the
purpose for our visit.

TRAVIS: We may be able to help, though. At least
where resources are concerned.

TALIESIN: Oh, I would say so. We have to. That
will be job one.

MARISHA: How is the land around the fort? Do you
have any farm land currently?

MATT: "What little bit grows here is not of the
edible variety. We have to rely on the farmlands

"of Emon for most of our produce, and those have
dried up, so we've been left to hunting and

"slaughtering what is available, which is not much
these days, as we're constantly in battle with the

"giants of the north to keep some semblance of food
intake to keep our soldiers fed and living."

SAM: (quietly) We can help a little with that,
right?

TALIESIN: Oh, yes. And we'll have to.

LAURA: Maybe throw some food through a tree when
we open it up, just chuck some corn.

TALIESIN: Sandwiches!

LAURA: Take some spaghetti!

TRAVIS: Could we load up a cart, though, and wheel
it through?

SAM: Well, but can't Keyleth make some farmland,
right here in the fort? Little small garden sort

of a thing?

MARISHA: It takes eight hours, but it seems like
we might have to do some field trips anyway.

TALIESIN: The airship will be heading here anyway.
We can load it with supplies as well.

TRAVIS: To here?

TALIESIN: To here. Everything will be coming here,
if things go the way that we hope they will.

TRAVIS: General, can I ask, are you close with
Mikael?

MATT: "I've been under him for 15 years, yes."

TRAVIS: Consider yourself friends?

MATT: "Friends?"

LIAM: You're the worst.

TRAVIS: I mean, it didn't even take a second. Not
one second. Have you no decency?

TALIESIN: I specifically looked left, hoping.

MATT: (clears throat)

LAURA: Sorry. You've been under him for how long?

MATT: "15 years."

LAURA: 15 years. Long time.

TRAVIS: Pick a fight. Pick a fight with the
general, then. Good. That's good.

MATT: "Allura, are these trusted?" And Allura
nods. "Very. They have a thought. More of a plan.

"A plan that if it works should put us in a much
more advantageous position in the conflict with

"the Chroma Conclave. Please, give them your ear.
Give them your respect. They've proven time and

"time again to be capable."

MARISHA: Forgive us, we've just been through a lot,
Elle.

TALIESIN: We've actually already killed three of
the five Chroma Conclave.

MATT: She leans back in her chair. "Is this
true?"

MARISHA: I reach in and I pull out one of the
teeth and throw it on the table.

TALIESIN: You can't just keep giving those away.

MATT: She catches it in the middle. She gives you
a very stern look, and eyeing you over, trying to

give you a read and then slowly it goes from group
to group. "Well, then perhaps this is our

"salvation." Throws the tooth back to you.

MARISHA: Did you see that?

LAURA: That was a good catch.

MARISHA: Thanks, guys.

TALIESIN: Before we get ahead of ourselves, our
hope is that we think we can lure Thordak out of

the city, and we think we can get him into a piece
of terrain that gives us the advantage. We were

hoping this would be where we consolidate our
forces and make a stand against him.

MATT: "You wish to bring the Cinder King here?"

SAM: Not just the Cinder King. We would also bring
allies to support you and to buffer your forces

and hopefully with enough planning time to get you
and your men back on their feet, well fed and

ready for a fight.

LAURA: We're hoping we'll be able to bring Mikael
and Syngorn's army back as well.

SAM: Mikael's navy.

LIAM: Yes.

TALIESIN: I hate you all. We either face him in
his home, in his terrain, with his guards

everywhere, with people we cannot trust
everywhere, or we lure him out and we bring him

somewhere where we know the terrain, where we have
places to hide, where we are prepared for him.

MATT: She nods and leans forward, putting one hand
over the other and her elbows on the edge of her

knees on her chair. "And what makes you think a
creature of such power and intelligence would ever

"leave such an advantageous position to be
vulnerable?"

SAM: To kill us. We are the bait, and we are also
the dragon killer. So he will come here to kill

us, or to at least investigate our whereabouts, we
hope, and when he arrives, we'll wait in ambush.

MATT: "Very well. If you're confident, you have
Fort Daxio and the Aegis Regiment behind you. I

"just hope you know what you're doing."

TRAVIS: Oh, we do. We've killed, like, a number of
them and none of us have died yet.

LAURA: Not even a little bit.

TRAVIS: We started with this many, and this many
is still here, is what I mean.

SAM: I mean, technically, we started the day with
this many, that's for sure.

SEVERAL: Yeah.

MARISHA: What's unconsciousness? (nervous
laughter)

MATT: You can see her expression drop a little bit
into a curled eyebrow of confusion.

LAURA: Three down.

TALIESIN: There's no guarantees, but this is the
best bet. This is the best place for us at this

point. I'm sure you understand. There are no
guarantees.

LAURA: Do you have underground facilities?
Something that guards against dragon fire?

MARISHA: We noticed a few of the trebuchets when
we walked in. How many of those do you have?

MATT: "Functional? Three."

TALIESIN: We can work on that.

MARISHA: Percy?

LAURA: How many non-functional?

MATT: "12."

TALIESIN: We can work on that.

MATT: "Very not functional. Look, siege warfare
hasn't been necessary for a very long time, let

"alone counter-siege. Fort Daxio hasn't been under
attack in close to 200 years."

LAURA: It could happen. When was the last time
ancient dragons took over the land?

MATT: "Which is exactly why we don't have any
dragon fire-protected subterranean tunnels. My

"apologies, but, you know, even our budgets are
limited."

TALIESIN: Well, we can get to work. We can get
people in. We can start making this place ready

and we can start making a plan. We have a lot of
power and a lot of energy at our disposal.

TRAVIS: Yeah, it's a montage waiting to happen.

MATT: "How soon do you imagine this to
transpire?"

LAURA: The montage?

MARISHA: Oh, we can get started right now!

MATT: "No, I mean, call-- wait, wait, wait!" She
waves her hand and interrupts the montage.

"Wait, wait, wait, wait."

TRAVIS: (singing) Going to build some tunnels,
make them look real cool!

SAM: It will take us a few days, if not weeks, to
summon all of our allies here, and we'll need to

get your forces ready as well. Is this something
that you can fully support? Would you rather fight

bravely against a dragon than die a slow
starvation death?

MATT: "We exist here as protectors of Emon and the
Council of Tal'dorei. With the current state of

"things, what's left of those things we choose and
have given ourselves to protect, if we can we

"will. So yes."

SAM: Okay.

TALIESIN: Well, step one is food, then.

TRAVIS: Yeah, resources and food.

MARISHA: What time is it here? Just creating
farmland all over the world.

MATT: I'd say it's midday.

LAURA: We need some source of water, too.

SAM: We have one pitcher of water whenever we need
it.

TRAVIS: Yeah, baby!

TALIESIN: Actually, they might already have a well
here.

MARISHA: Yeah, like a well?

MATT: Yeah, it still rains here, and it has
watershed elements that come through the Othendin

Pass from the Cliffkeep Mountains. It's the ground
in this particular valley, like elements of the

Cliffkeep in the north, it isn't very fertile for
any sort of vegetation to take root.

TALIESIN: There's no food you can grow
underground, is there?

TRAVIS: I saw this movie called The Martian. If we
shit all over everything, it'll grow. Yeah, lots

of potatoes grow from shit.

ASHLEY: Maybe if we could make a composting system
for them.

SAM: So you can't grow anything right now?

MARISHA: Can I get someone to take me to a
courtyard, or something like that?

MATT: The courtyard is the area between the outer
wall and the fortress itself, which is all built

into the side of the mountain.

MARISHA: Can I do some sort of druidy soil test?
pH test, or something like that?

MATT: Make a nature check.

MARISHA: See if I can grow stuff here? With a
Plant Growth spell. Just a nature check? 15.

MATT: 15? I mean, it doesn't take too much for you
to find out that the dirt here, the land itself,

is very nutrient-devoid. It is a near salt and
rock land, which is why a lot of it does not

facilitate--

MARISHA: Can I not fix that with a Plant Growth
spell?

MATT: Do you have a spell that could fix that?

MARISHA: Does Plant Growth fix that?

MATT: Let's read the spell.

TALIESIN: We have options.

SAM: For at least a day, I could create a soup
kitchen. People could come in and take a bowl and leave.

LAURA: Could they have something with veggies,
too, though?

MATT: Plant Growth affects plants that already
exist, as opposed to the actual land itself.

MARISHA: All plants in a half-mile radius--

LAURA: Isn't there something that turns the land
fertile?

ASHLEY: Poop.

TALIESIN: That's like, 5th level.

ASHLEY: Do you have horses? Lots of horses?

LIAM: But I mean, Scanlan, until we are ready to
pull the trigger--

SAM: Yeah, I mean I could create a soup kitchen,
basically.

LIAM: Once a day, yeah?

SAM: Sure. Yeah. We can have a bread line going in
and out.

TRAVIS: In the meantime, Percy could take a look
at some of the weaponry. Maybe look at building a

tunnel, or a bunker.

SAM: General, when's the next feeding time for
your next shift of men?

MATT: "We've had to relegate it to just morning
and afternoon meals to help ration our supplies.

"So I would say four hours til dusk, that would be
the next allotted mess time."

TALIESIN: Can this actually work? Can we use the
spell this way?

SAM: What, the mansion? Sure, I think so. Right?

MATT: It's a unique way of utilizing it, but I
don't see why not.

LAURA: It's a Sizzler. I like it.

(phone ringing)

SAM: Oh, shit! Shit balls! I can't--

MATT: We talked about this.

SAM: Sorry. I had an alarm to take off my shirt.

LAURA: Oh, you did?

SAM: I have to wear four shirts tonight because of
reasons.

(laughter)

TRAVIS: Really?

SAM: Yeah, it's an anal thing. I've worn 70
different shirts on 73 episodes of the show, so if

I wear four tonight, that's one for every
episode.

TRAVIS: Oh my god.

LIAM: That makes sense. That's time well spent.

(laughter)

TRAVIS: Liam and I will give you a dunking in the
bathroom after the break.

LIAM: You'll get a swirly forthwith.

LIAM: Are we going to double back to Dad?

LAURA: We have to, right?

LIAM: Yeah, soon.

TALIESIN: We have to at least send word. That's
the first thing we have to--

LAURA: I don't know how we send word to the
Feywild without going to the Feywild.

MARISHA: I can Plane Shift us there after we sleep
and I learn it the next morning.

LIAM: Now that you've brought us there, do you
think you could get us closer?

MARISHA: I could take us straight there, yeah.

TRAVIS: Percy, what do you think of looking at all
this weaponry?

TALIESIN: I'm going to look at the battalions. See
if I can drudge up some people who actually know

how these things function and start seeing how
difficult it would be to get the ones that are broken

working.

MATT: Okay.

MARISHA: Can I figure out if the ground is sturdy
enough if I start digging little bunkers, that

would be okay?

MATT: Bunkers for?

MARISHA: Underground bunkers for hiding from a
flaming dragon breath.

MATT: I mean, you could, probably. It's hard
packed, very solid ground. Westruun, is where you

did it.

MARISHA: Westruun. We did the bunkers.

LAURA: Didn't we do underground stuff in
Whitestone, too, though?

MARISHA: I did a bunker under the Sun Tree, kind
of.

TALIESIN: We do a lot of bunkers.

MATT: At this point, Keyleth almost has a
burrowing speed.

MARISHA: It's like that Fallout minigame that
they came out with, the app. Basically that.

TRAVIS: Do we want to crack out the mansion?

SAM: Yeah, sure. I'll crack out the mansion. Where
should I put it, General Elle?

MATT: "I'm not entirely certain as to what you're
attempting to do here."

SAM: Oh, I'm sorry. Through magical means. We are
all, not to brag, we are all super powerful. We're

like a band of traveling superheroes. One of the
things that I can do is make a room or a home, a

magical home, where everyone can go in and get a
quick meal and then go back out to work again. So

with your permission and a location, I can create
this magical dwelling.

MATT: Keeping her eyes trained on you, she leans
over towards Allura. "I can't tell, is the little

"man fucking with me?"

TALIESIN: He gets that a lot.

MATT: Allura goes, "Usually, yes, but no, he's
being completely honest right now."

"Then, by all means, yes."

SAM: Is there a spot where you would like your men
to--

MATT: "Follow me to the mess hall." She seems
legitimately spooked and unsure what to make of

you, but leads you on anyway.

SAM: Most women are.

MATT: But yeah, you can set up in the mess hall
entranceway. There is a large hall with long

tables and she says that would be probably the
most optimal place to go ahead and set up shop there.

MARISHA: Question.

MATT: Yes?

MARISHA: Legi-- logi-- (fumbling words) Logistical
question. That's the word I was looking for.

MATT: There you go.

LIAM: Stuff and things.

MARISHA: Stuff and things. Things and stuff. They
are low on meat because they're low on animals?

MATT: Most of their food was being brought by the
trade routes. Since then, they've had to hunt for

food and go off of whatever stock and store they
had, and even that's running really low. They're

hard-pressed to maintain.

MARISHA: Could I do a Conjure Woodland Beings and
conjure a bunch of deer?

TRAVIS: Fuck yes.

MARISHA: And then we could play shooting range?

LAURA: Do they disappear when they're dead?

MARISHA: Oh, right. They disappear.

MATT: Yep. They would watch that meat go (poof).
Sorry.

MARISHA: Oh, that's mean. No, I don't do that, by
the way. I was asking ahead of time, because that

would be mean. Never mind.

TRAVIS: Also awesome.

MATT: This one druid got to level three and then
opened its own hunting emporium and never became

an adventurer again.

TRAVIS: Supply for days.

MATT: Yeah! So you're setting up the mess hall.
You're checking in to see-- go ahead and make an

investigation check, Taliesin, if you don't mind.

TALIESIN: Ew. Seven.

MATT: Seven? Asking around over the next couple
hours or so, it appears that most anyone who would

be a specialist in any sort of siege weaponry was
part of the other regiments that are no longer

part of Daxio. Even so, some of the weaponry that
was here looks like it was ordered partially just

to get the money in. A lot of the trebuchets that
are functional are very dry-rotted and have seen

many rainy winters and haven't really been kept
up, and you're not even sure if they'd fire. The

ones that have broken down, a lot of the wood
rotted. There isn't a lot of weaponry. It looks

like the three could be fixed up and be
functional, but the ones that aren't, it would

take you weeks with new lumber and new materials
to even get them remotely functional.

TALIESIN: All right, we can make do. We can make
do. I will definitely start making plans for the

three that are functional to get them in tip-top
working condition.

MATT: With successful tinkering checks on this,
with a few borrowed hands for manpower, you could

probably repair one per day of work. That's a full
eight-hour day of work. So be aware of that.

TALIESIN: All right. How many more of them were
disheveled and broken?

MATT: About 12 of them.

TALIESIN: And they each had their own spot?

MATT: The three that are still semi-functional are
pulled back about 60 or so feet from the edge of

the walls, and then the rest of them have actually
been wheeled over into the corner and have all

been jammed up on the edge, unused and not to take
up space.

TALIESIN: Okay. That'll start, at least. I'm going
to look for any improvements that can be made in

defensive measures against flying creatures in any
way. If we use some Stone Shape, we can make this

even more defendable against flying creatures, et
cetera.

TRAVIS: General? Just because, like, I'm an
inquisitive mind, what is the travel time from

here to Emon on foot, on a beast? Those two.

MATT: "On foot, I'd say it would put you at about
five to six days. Horseback, straight through

"without sleep and running the beast into the
ground, you could do it in a day."

TRAVIS: Wow. Cool. Good deal.

MARISHA: Are you trying to think of bringing back
supplies?

TRAVIS: No, I was seeing if I could run there in a
night and back.

MARISHA: Just to scout it out?

TRAVIS: No, I'm not fucking running over there.
Are you crazy? I was just curious.

MATT: Anything else anyone else is looking to do?

MARISHA: I guess I can start on the underground
bunker. For tonight, I guess.

TALIESIN: I'll start on one of the-- oh god, my
brain has completely turned to mush.

MATT: Trebuchet?

TALIESIN: Trebuchet, thank you. I love the word.

MATT: Go ahead and make a tinkering check.

SAM: What are you guys going to do?

TRAVIS: That mess hall-- is there a gathering
quarters for the soldiers?

MATT: There is a barracks built into the
stronghold where many of the soldiers sleep. Where

there is a common area, with general tables, card
games, and things to pass the time. There is a

small library, with various books. You get the
sense here as you begin to walk around and see the

soldiers, since these guys are essentially the
defensive reserve for Fort Daxio, and Daxio

doesn't see a lot of military action, it's very
much a train-and-wait type circumstance. And many

of the soldiers, though they have grown a little
gaunt in the face from lack of resources, also

appear to be emotionally drained from having
nothing to do. And this constant stressful

uncertainty about their future fate has this air
of very low morale within the fort.

TRAVIS: General, please don't take this the wrong
way. Do you trust your men?

MATT: "I do. I trust their ability. I trust that
they've stayed with me in the face of all this

"opposition and believe that my orders and
requests to stay vigilant in the face of such

"possible destruction, having been met with
continued agreeance that they will follow me as

"needed to our end."

TRAVIS: And there are none that you worry about,
none that have expressed a lack of confidence,

none that you're keeping your eye on? Giving you a
weird feeling?

MATT: "None that live."

TRAVIS: I like that answer. Shit.

SAM: Oi, twinsies.

LAURA: Oi.

SAM: Maybe you should fly up, and if Thordak's
going to attack from the air, see where the spot

is that he would attack, like a spot of weakness
from above?

LIAM: Well, that's not a bad idea. We're thinking
about tomorrow, though, as well. In the morning, yeah.

LAURA: Maybe we should pop into Syngorn.

LIAM: Could you take the two of us, Keyleth?

LAURA: But yeah, we'll fly up. Let's do that.

MATT: All right, so you guys go ahead and coast
up, to do what?

LIAM: To see if there's anything of use, see if
there's anything to be gleaned from a bird's-eye view.

LAURA: Because it's on the cliffside, right?

MATT: Yeah, if you look at the large ravine that
is carved through this portion of the mountain

there. From your perspective, looking at the map
down this way. It is on the western side of the

ravine, against the mountain. You guys coast up,
looking up. Matching the very height of the

mountain, the bluff that leads down into the ravine
itself, and you can see over the edge the ocean of

the Ozmit Sea that heads off westward. You can see
a little bit of the light as the sun comes down to

a sunset. You can see it glittering across the
waves in the distance. You can see the little

mountain range to the north of Emon, peering over
the edge. And you can see a little bit of a dark

spot in the very distance, over the horizon that
you can gather where Emon is. You can see it from

this high up. Even though it is but a small spot.

LAURA: (sings) From a distance...

LIAM: (shouts) What?

LAURA: (shouts) It looks peaceful up here.

LIAM: (shouts) Sure.

LAURA: What are we doing? Do we see anything
interesting?

LIAM: Not enjoying the view, I start to look down
around, is there anything?

LAURA: That seems useful, for, like, if we put
something on the cliffside or something? Maybe a

hideout, somewhere to hide from view, something
like that?

LIAM: Is there anything we didn't see coming up?
Or is it all plain to view?

MATT: Both of you guys make an investigation.

LAURA: Almost awesome. 19.

LIAM: 23.

MATT: You guys take the next hour or so coasting
along the edge of the mountain range, the top of

the ravine itself.

LAURA: Is it a mountain?

MATT: There are, it is a mountain range and the
ravine itself carves through a portion of it, so

the right and left side, yes.

LIAM: At the 59 minute mark I fly over and sit on
the back of my sister's broom

LAURA: Is it favored terrain?

MATT: Is your favored terrain mountains?

LAURA: Yeah.

MATT: Then yeah, you get advantage on that.

LAURA: 20.

MATT: But still. You do have the advantage at the
top of these mountains of a wider range of view.

It's good for somebody who's expecting an
incursion from flying creatures. It'd be a great

place to put a scout, as a warning system, should
anything begin to make its way towards the fort

from Emon or beyond. There are places where you
could in theory drop things down the edges of the

mountain that would use the ravine almost like a
bowling alley, essentially, large boulders and

rocks. Which is a favored tactic of many stone
giants and other giants who use mountain terrain

to their advantage. But beyond that, there's no
other terrain that you think would, outside of you

coming up with a creative use of it, there's
nothing that is glaring to you as an advantage in

the coming fray.

LAURA: We could put somebody in a hidey-hole up
here. And if they see anything, they drop a stone

down to a designated area and let people know.

LIAM: Yeah. They could throw out one of those
flare-like gem-y thingies. Ring a bell.

LAURA: Oh yeah! We have those. A bell is probably
the best idea.

LIAM: Any of those. You want to take us down? This
broom always rides up my ass when I ride on it.

LAURA: Oh, because your little wings are dead?

LIAM: Yes, they are.

LAURA: All right. I'll float us down on my
ever-flying broom.

LIAM: Ow!

MATT: Okay, so you guys descend.

LAURA: I go down pretty slow to make this last a
little bit longer.

LIAM: Getting close though, yeah?

LAURA: What?

LIAM: What?

LAURA: To take out all of this?

LIAM: Yeah.

LAURA: Yeah.

LIAM: Kill 'em, or die trying.

LAURA: That's right.

MATT: Both of you guys, make a perception check.

LAURA: Oh, that was so close to a one, but it
wasn't! 20.

LIAM: 22.

MATT: 22, okay. As you guys come down--

LAURA: Oh, wait, no! 26! My math was wrong.

MATT: That's okay. As you guys come down into the
bottom of the ravine you make it down safely into

Fort Daxio to gather with the rest of your
compadres for the evening. You at this point, by

the way, Scanlan. You are currently, because you
have to be present to designate anybody who can

enter your mansion. You are like the one-person
homeless shelter. You are bringing through soldier

after soldier into there. And they all look
confused, bewildered. And many of them stop and be

like, "What's going on?"

SAM: Name on the list? What's your name?

MATT: (stuttering) "I am--"

SAM: Name?

MATT: (stuttering) "Are you--? What is--?"

SAM: Listen, man. Do you want some food or not?
What's your name? I've got a big list here,

there's no girl with you.

MATT: "Trevian Simtin. Please, I'm hungry."

SAM: Do you have a plus one?

MATT: "I have a plus?"

SAM: You're in."

MATT: "All right!" One after another, after
another. Some of them seem genuinely spooked and

freaked out by the spiritual servants, and
avoiding them as they go on. The smell of food

hits them, though. The ever-smell of chicken
cooking through does catch them. And they all seem

to eventually get past their fear of the servants
as the fantastic meal of relatively neutral flesh

is served to them in your dining hall.

LAURA: There's still no veggies, huh? They
could probably use some vegetable nutrition.

SAM: I'm sure they boil the chicken in like an
onion sort of water.

LAURA: Do they? Or is it like a chicken broth that
they boil them in?

SAM: They have the fusaka now. They put a little
bit of that in. Spices it up a bit.

TRAVIS: They've got a 300-year supply.

(laughter)

MATT: All right, Keyleth. Explain the bunker
you're building for me, if you could.

MARISHA: Should I do it on the inside? In the
courtyard, make an underground pod. Think

Fallout.

MATT: Right. Is it closer to the wall, or closer
to the actual fortress itself, the entrance that

leads to the underground pathway?

MARISHA: I imagine closer to the fortress, right?
On the inside.

LAURA: Deep in there.

MATT: So you have a gradual decline near the
fortress, in the courtyard, that goes underneath.

And then mirrors the curvature of the wall? Or
does it travel perpendicular to it and go

underneath the wall?

MARISHA: I imagine we wouldn't want to go
underneath the wall.

MATT: Right, so here's the fortress. With the
mountain. Fortress, and here's the wall around it.

You're essentially building it in the same
curvature parallel to the outer wall.

MARISHA: Yes.

MATT: Okay. So you build this bunker, you take the
better part of the evening, and probably the next

morning or so to complete whatever the spell's
maximum effort is.

MARISHA: Yeah.

MATT: Okay, cool. I need you, with the manpower
you have, possible with you, Taliesin. Go ahead

and make a tinkering check. This is going to be
with strength. It's very large physical activity.

This is less about your intellect or your manual
dexterity, this is about tools and having to apply

it. You do have advantage because you have other
men helping you with this. But the DC is

relatively high.

TALIESIN: That'll do. 25.

MATT: 25, okay. While the rest of you are
finishing up your events of the evening and

preparing to go to sleep, Percy is working
tirelessly into the wee hours of the morning. You

finish, probably like two hours after midnight,
with the rest of your crew sore, sweaty. But you

have one functional trebuchet that looks like it
could handle many, many shots within one battle

and still be serviceable.

LIAM: Shirtless, covered in soot.

MARISHA: Mm-hmm.

SAM: He wipes his brow.

MATT: As he slowly takes his glasses off--

TRAVIS: Yeah! Takes the water skin and just--

MATT: All the soldiers are like--

LAURA: Oh, Percy!

MATT: There you go. You guys take your evening to
rest. The next morning, you find yourselves awake.

Spells restored. Hit points restored. Allura comes
in and greets all of you. "All right, so! I can

"also bring us back to Whitestone. I've restored
the teleportation spell that I had. Thus, what do

"you wish to do now?"

LAURA: Number one. (whispers) Never say
"Whitestone" in public, ever.

TALIESIN: Around us, especially. We could still
do work here. Here's what has to happen now. We

need to send word to as many people as possible
that we are meeting here for the final

confrontation. We have to make sure that work
continues here. And then, if there's time, while

our forces assemble and things prepare, we have
several things we can do in the meantime.

TRAVIS: Right. Keyleth is necessary to get to the
Feywild.

LAURA: Or Allura.

MARISHA: Could I theoretically open a tree and
send people in?

LAURA: To the Feywild? But how would we get back?

MARISHA: No, not to the Feywild. If we need to see
someone to--

SAM: Whitestone?

MARISHA: Yeah, or Marquet. Or wherever.

TALIESIN: We have the stone, as well.

TRAVIS: So it's going to be Keyleth and one of the
twinsies go to the Feywild, right?

SAM: Can you do any plane shifting things, Pikey
Pike?

ASHLEY: I don't have it prepared.

TRAVIS: I don't have it?

ASHLEY: I don't have it prepared.

TRAVIS: You know, there is that fire elemental
plane with the last Vestige, eh?

TALIESIN: We could. That is absolutely on the
table.

MARISH: Could we? Do we have time for that?

SAM: Sure!

TALIESIN: It's going to take us a week to get this
place even remotely ready for this confrontation.

MATT: Allura at this point, by the way, says, "A
week? I don't know if we have a week."

TRAVIS: Why?

TALIESIN: What happens in less than a week?

MATT: "The minute that the information of
Vorugal's death finds its way to Thordak, what do

"you think is going to happen? Their vengeance is
going to fall."

TALIESIN: It's going to take a few days for that
to happen, to be set in motion.

MARISHA: Are you kidding? I don't know. It could
be any minute now. They've been spying on us this

whole time. What makes you think it will take a
few days?

SAM: Also, throwing it out there. If you guys go
to the Feywild, isn't there a chance that you

don't come back until a month later or something
crazy like that? Doesn't time shift weirdly?

MATT: Make an intelligence check. Add your
intelligence modifier.

SAM: Oh! 18.

MATT: 18. And you could technically add--

SAM: I did.

MATT: You added your d12 to it?

SAM: Oh, no, not my d12.

MATT: You could use one of your bardic
inspirations to inspire yourself, if you wanted to.

SAM: Sure, why not? I'll do that. All right, 22
then.

MATT: Having journeyed once to the Feywild, and
with the little bit of research you've done since

then. There have been people who have been to the
Feywild who do speak of some sort of temporal

anomaly when traveling to and from. So yes, you
are certain that there can be some sort of

flexibility as to the time spent there versus the
time that has transpired in the Prime Material

plane. Not a sure thing, but there is some
variation to that.

TRAVIS: What's life without a little risk?

LAURA: Maybe Syngorn will have control over that.
They can transfer back when they want to.

TALIESIN: Let's see what we can do.

LAURA: They have a huge army.

TRAVIS: And they've got werewolves in their
woods.

LAURA: I don't know how we'll be able to get word
to them.

TRAVIS: You howl.

LAURA: All right.

MATT: Allura sneaks in a bit and says, "My only
suggestion here is make sure that you do the

"things that are absolutely necessary for this
because we don't know when this is going to kick off."

LAURA: Well, we have to get armies here.

MATT: "Then let's do it."

LAURA: That's what we're trying to do.

MATT: "All right."

SAM: Well, wait. Don't we need to send word to
other places as well? How do we do that?

TRAVIS: Yeah, I don't know how to reach my herd.

SAM: Isn't there a big horn you blow or
something?

TRAVIS: No, they wander to and fro.

SAM: You could find them, probably?

LAURA: They were wandering somewhere specific,
though. Into the riverlands or something?

SAM: We can scry and find out where they are and
then send someone as mist-form you, or something,

and go catch up with them.

LAURA: We'll spread the fuck out and then Thordak
will attack and then none of us will be here!

MARISHA: All right.

TALIESIN: Stop rolling, that's really
disconcerting when you sit there and roll at us.

MARISHA: Well, how do we know that Thordak will
even come here, by the way? He has no reason to

come here unless he's deliberately looking for us.
Which we have no reason to believe that he cares

to come find us.

SAM: Quick list, people. Quick list! Who do we
need to contact, Slayer's Take?

LAURA: -Ish. Yeah. Bottom of the list, because I
don't think they would--

SAM: Ravenites?

LAURA: Yes.

LIAM: Syngorn.

SAM: Syngorn. That's a big one. That's a biggie
right there.

LAURA: And that's a biggie because it's also got
these soldiers.

SAM: The wolf pack?

LAURA: Also there. We can howl.

TRAVIS: The Herd.

SAM: The Herd.

TRAVIS: The Platinum Dragon.

LAURA: Bahamut?

SAM: J'mon Sa Ord, sort of? -Ish?

MARISHA: We've got that thing--

LAURA: Yeah, we've got that whistle. What about
Bahamut's people in Vasselheim?

MATT: That's the Platinum Sanctuary.

LAURA: Yeah, what about the Platinum Sanctuary?

TRAVIS: That's what I'm saying.

LAURA: Oh, I thought you were talking about--

TRAVIS: No, no. I said the word "platinum." I was
there. And you robbed me of it. I did it right.

LAURA: Sorry, Grog. You're so smart!

SAM: Is there anyone else who's pledged their
allegiance to us? Any other band of traveling

idiots?

TALIESIN: We could ask for help from Kraghammer,
as well.

LAURA: Yeah, it's so close.

MARISHA: I could ask, potentially, my father and
the Air Ashari. I'd have a hard time asking the

Fire Ashari, there's so few of them.

TRAVIS: Didn't the werewolves want to leave the
Feywild, right? They wanted out.

LAURA: I think so. I don't know. I think they just
wanted out of those woods, but-- Maybe we could

find Artagan while we're there. Maybe he could pop
over and we'll have an archfey helping us.

MARISHA: We also have a 2,000 person capacity
here. I mean, we can always push it and make

encampments on the outside, but what's our ideal
number we're trying to hit?

SAM: 2,000.

LAURA: A jillion. As many as we can.

LIAM: It feels like it's a risk, but the most bang
for our buck, our gold piece, is Syngorn. There's the

most people there.

TRAVIS: And as far as we remember, the people of
Vasselheim. Their general temperament is

Vasselheim takes care of Vasselheim.

LIAM: Yeah, that's what it felt like when we were
there.

MATT: Vasselheim and the continuation of
civilization, and that being the Dawn Cradle, the

city that's existed for as long as civilization
has, is to be protected at all costs. So while

they do and can offer aid occasionally outside of
it, not to the detriment of their own defense.

TRAVIS: Right.

LAURA: Is that it? Is that everyone?

TRAVIS: We could go talk to that Earthbreaker
Groon.

SAM: Where is he?

LAURA: Vasselheim. This is a lot of different
places in like a day and a half.

TALIESIN: We could write an awful lot of letters.

LAURA: Yeah. And hopefully they'll show up like
Game of Thrones at the last moment. We'll think

we're overrun, and then all of a sudden another
army shows up, and it's wonderful!

MARISHA: Allura, do you have some way of messaging
people and sending messages like super quickly?

SAM: An instant message app?

MATT: "Actually, depending on who it is."

TALIESIN: Fassbender?

MARISHA: Fassbender. He's with Wilhand.

MATT: "To be perfectly honest, if it's a creature
that I'm relatively familiar with, I could send it

"to them instantaneously. Any distance. Across the
planes."

SAM: How many people per day?

MARISHA: Across the planes?

MATT: "Across the planes."

SAM: How many times could you do that per day?

MATT: I could probably muster it three times.

LAURA: Oh, this is major! This is huge!

LIAM: Allura, did you ever meet with our father in
Emon?

MATT: "Yes, many times, actually. Yes, he was an
interesting individual of the council. Especially

"back when Sir Gregory was with us. But they were
friends. Yes, I did meet him."

TALIESIN: Well, dwell on that one. Well, that
would save us an enormous amount of energy.

MARISHA: That would be great! And me, two
seventh-level spells.

MATT: Sir Gregory Fence. That was when you first
came to Emon. He's the gentleman who was part of

the council. You were hired by their father to go
and inspect because he went missing.

LAURA: Remember demons in the succubus' house?

MARISHA: It'll take me a 7th-level spell to get
there, and then I'll have to burn my 8th-level

spell to get back.

LAURA: Well let's send word to them. Then save us
the talk.

MATT: "All right, so. You require word to your
father?"

LAURA: Yes.

MATT: "Who else?"

SAM: Who's next on the list?

MARISHA: Bigger allies.

SAM: The Ravenites? The Herd. What about the
Herd?

MARISHA: I don't think she knows anyone.

SAM: Well, we can describe them?

LAURA: It's got to be somebody she knows.

MATT: "I have to have met them."

SAM: Kraghammer?

LAURA: Have you ever met somebody in charge in
Kraghammer?

MATT: "I have a number of individuals I've met
there, yes. I cannot guarantee they'll be eager to

"jump into this fray. I can try."

TALIESIN: That's possible, let's put that on the
possible list.

SAM: What about that town that we saved from
dissolution?

TALIESIN: Westruun, they have the--

MARISHA: Westruun was decimated.

TALIESIN: They have Fassbender, they could send a
soldier with the Fassbender.

LAURA: Yeah, they have Fassbender.

SAM: The Air Ashari? Do we need to talk to any of
them? You could do that.

MARISHA: Theoretically.

SAM: The Ravenites? You don't know any Ravenites,
do you?

MARISHA: I was going to say, what about Tooma?
Who's the dragonborn in Vasselheim?

LIAM: Tofor!

MARISHA: Tofor!

LAURA: Wow, nice pull!

MARISHA: Do you know Tofor?

MATT: "Tofor? Yes. Tofor's in Emon right now. "

TRAVIS: She is?

LAURA: Yeah, she is.

MATT: Tofor is a member of the Tal'Dorei Council.
She's one of the council members, one of the

survivors who is currently working with--
apparently, from what you've heard--

LAURA: The Clasp.

MARISHA: Is the person at the Slayer's Take
Vanessa?

SAM: Vanessa, from the Slayer's Take, do you know
her, Allura?

MATT: "I've not met Vanessa, no."

LAURA: Well, who do you know that's really
powerful, that also maybe has an army that could

help us? Anyone you know that we don't?

MATT: "I think we've tapped out most of our
resources at this point! I've reached out to

"members of the Arcana Pansophical, but many of them
have their own issues to deal with."

LAURA: They're dicks, aren't they?

MATT: "No, they're just busy."

LAURA: Oh, that one guy we met, he was a real
dick, though.

SAM: Any underdark-y type people? Do they like
us?

LIAM: Long, white hair.

LAURA: Purple eyes. He was in Marquet. Is that
what we're thinking of? Am I thinking of a

different place?

MATT: "I don't know if he's a member of the
Arcana Pansophical."

LAURA: Just kidding!

SAM: Let's start with Syngorn and then see how it
works, all right?

MARISHA: Have you ever met my father, Korren of
the Air Ashari?

MATT: "I've had no correspondence from the Air
Ashari. My apologies. I'm doing what I can."

MARISHA: Yeah, no, you're great.

TALIESIN: You've saved us a trip to the Feywild
and back. Send word that if they can contact the

werewolves, the werewolves owe us a favor, I
suppose. Not that they would help with that.

MATT: "If that's the information you need sent,
that would require me to make two messages. Just

"to cover both those bases. To their father--"

SAM: Let's just get the father.

MATT: "What was his name again?"

LIAM: Syldor.

MATT: "Syldor. Syldor, right. Two messages, to
gather the army of Emon. And Syngorn, to return

"and head towards Fort Daxio."

LAURA: Yes, if they could get pop Syngorn over to
Fort Daxio, that'd be killer.

MATT: "I don't know if that's how the magic works,
but I'll put a message in there for that and to

"look for werewolves."

TALIESIN: As part of the message, that if there's
a pack with the werewolves---

SAM: Is that vital? Should we care about that?

TRAVIS: He fucked some shit up.

SAM: All right, sure. Yeah. Why not? Second
message: Bring-- what was his name?

TRAVIS: Spike!

LAURA: No.

SAM: Indala.

LAURA: No.

LIAM: Michael J. Fox.

TRAVIS: Ukurat.

LAURA and MARISHA: Ukurat!

MATT: "All right. And I'll enquire about bringing
Ukurat and the werewolves. All right! I've got

"some messaging to do."

TALIESIN: And when you're back in Whitestone, send
the airship our way loaded with food and supplies

if you can.

MATT: "Very well."

LAURA: Tell them to be on guard!

SAM: Put Kima on there, too?

TALIESIN: And anybody who wishes to come fight.

TRAVIS: Kash, Kima.

LAURA: On the airship? Or send them through a
tree.

SAM: Or Zahra!

LIAM: When you write to our father, will you tell
him his children need him?

TRAVIS: Gross!

MATT: "I can do that, yes."

LAURA: I don't know if that will help at all.

MATT: "I'll call for Kima, I'll bring our allies
with us. Either me or Shaun have to stay behind to

"maintain the illusion, so your choice."

SAM: Shaun.

TRAVIS: Yeah.

MATT: "All right, so Shaun will stay behind--"

SAM: Wait.

TALIESIN: Yes.

LAURA: Yeah.

SAM: That's certain death.

TALIESIN: Staying in Whitestone is the exact
opposite of certain death.

LAURA: He's protecting everyone.

MATT: "Our purpose is to stay to make sure that
they do not see Whitestone."

TALIESIN: That is the opposite of certain death.

MATT: "All right, I'll get these messages off."

LAURA: Oh my god is this happening right now?

MATT: She takes two steps back and puts one
finger in the air, and as it curls her eyes glaze

over with crackling blue energy. And you watch her
tongue click across her mouth like she's speaking

quietly to herself. Her eyes come back. "All
right, I've notified your father, Syldor." Once

again her eyes glaze over with crackling blue
energy. Her fingers trace in the air, and it looks

like she's speaking--

SAM: Quick, everyone hide when she's doing this!
So when she comes back, we'll all be--

TRAVIS: Yes.

LAURA: She goes back we're like--

LIAM: It's like she's putting on a VR helmet.

MATT: "All right." Her eyes return. "Both messages
have been delivered to your father. Who else

"should require a message?"

SAM: You don't know anyone else on our list, do
you? The Slayer's Take, you don't know.

LAURA: It might be smart to send one to Warmaster
Mikael as well. I know he's in Syngorn as well,

but it might be good to have a couple of people
there bringing word.

LIAM: That's not a bad idea.

MATT: "I can do that." With that, once again the
energy crackles and you can see she's trying to

find the location of someone's presence. It hits,
and she begins to speak quietly to herself.

Finishes. "Very well! The army's been notified."

SAM: Just one more message!

MATT: Let me see if she can.

SAM: But wait, what about the Clasp or something?

MATT: Nope! That is all that she can do. Actually,
no. She can cast at a higher level, so she can do more.

SAM: The Clasp? Do they like us or hate us?

LAURA: They hate us, but--

TALIESIN: I think that the Clasp are going to be
far more useful once they figure out the dragon

has left the city. And I don't even think they
necessarily need to be notified of such a thing.

LAURA: If the dragon leaves the city.

SAM: All right, then we're good for now. We just
keep buffeting up this place? Do we have to plan

an ambush? How does this work?

TRAVIS: We go in. Emon, right now. Full ball.

SAM: All right. You and me.

TRAVIS: Full blush.

TALIESIN: We could go to the Fire Plane really
quickly.

LIAM: We're hoping to tempt him here.

LAURA: Yeah.

TALIESIN: Yes.

TRAVIS: Why are you so anxious to go to the Fire
Plane all of a sudden?

TALIESIN: There's an object. It's from the Fire
Plane. We are facing a fire dragon, which means

it's something unbelievably useful or not useful
at all. We need ice weapons, we need cold weapons,

and we don't have any.

MARISHA: And you think that we're going to find
those in the Fire Plane?

TALIESIN: Either that or in that ship that we left
behind.

MATT: You have knowledge of dragons quite well,
actually, Vex. You do know that red dragons are

not vulnerable to cold, by any means. They're just
resistant to fire.

LAURA: They're just resistant to fire.

TALIESIN: So it doesn't matter, then.

LAURA: Are they vulnerable to anything that i know
of?

TRAVIS: Insults, cheese.

ASHLEY: Love.

MARISHA: Peanuts.

TRAVIS: Bruised bananas.

MATT: (laughs) Bruised bananas.

TRAVIS: Hey, Pike! Did you know that we have all
the Vestiges except for the one in the Fire Plane,

and you'll never guess what it is.

ASHLEY: What is it?

TRAVIS: What is it? I forgot.

SAM: Some plate armor?

TRAVIS: It's some plate armor!

LAURA: Of the Dawn Martyr.

ASHLEY: What?!

LAURA: Which might be clutch for you.

ASHLEY: That might be a long-- I don't know.
Allura was saying we don't have time--

SAM: One day! What's one day?

MARISHA: You don't know if it's going to be one
day.

SAM: Well, when we get there we'll find out! If
it's taking too long, we'll pop back! These

messages are going to take a while to deliver.

MARISHA: I'm not like a Wonka-vator, man!

LAURA: We'd have to spend the night there.

ASHLEY: That makes me a little nervous.

SAM: All right, one night. They've all eaten
today. We're fine.

MATT: As far as you know, no there is no
vulnerability--

LAURA: Fuck, really?

MATT: Just fine with fire.

TRAVIS: Just pure death and destruction.

TALIESIN: Well, at least that's a bonus in that
means that anything will work as well as anything else.

TRAVIS: That's true.

LAURA: Right.

LIAM: Can we go back to the plan about how we
intend to get Thordak here? We were playing with

the idea of fooling Thordak into thinking that
Raishan had been killed.

TALIESIN: Raishan was going to feed him the
information that he thought that we were here, and

then vanish.

LIAM: And that's it? We think that's going to
pull him out?

TALIESIN: I think Raishan will be clever enough to
give him just enough to get him here.

LIAM: Do you think Raishan would be willing to let
us hack off a little bit of flesh to send?

LAURA: You'd have to ask Raishan.

TALIESIN: You'd have to ask Raishan. She might be
willing to let me do such a thing.

TRAVIS: Did we establish a way to contact her?

MARISHA: We have no way to contact her.

SAM: No wait! Didn't we send her on a mission?

TRAVIS: Oh, we did! She was checking on--

SAM: She was going to bring us back some dude. And
we're not even there!

LAURA: Oh, fuck! Asum was going to come back!

SAM: To not where we are right now!

LAURA: Fuck.

TRAVIS: It was two things. It was Asoon and...

LIAM: Asoon?

TRAVIS: Bassoon, whatever. And what was the other
thing?

LAURA: Some other guy. Was it some other guy?

TRAVIS: Oh, shit nails!

SAM: The last time we talked to Raishan she said,
"All right. I'll be back in a day." And then we

got out of there.

LAURA: Well it's still a day. It hasn't been a day
yet. We haven't spent the night here yet.

SAM: Yeah, no. We haven't spent the night yet.

TRAVIS: Oh she was going to Emon to hold up the
bluff that everything was cool was Thordak, right?

She was going to bluff, and then she was also
going to try to bring back Seeker Asum.

TALIESIN: It's all right. We can head home from
here. Someone has got to go home.

LAURA: Somebody's got to go.

MARISHA: Some of us can go, and some of us can
stay.

LAURA: Well, all right.

SAM: All right, I'll go talk to Raishan.

LIAM: And you can't leave because you're building,
or can you go?

TALIESIN: I can leave, we've got one working. If I
stay, I'll have two working. If I stay longer,

I'll have three working. But I'll go where we're
most useful.

ASHLEY: But you want a chunk of her? Or like, a
little piece of her?

LIAM: Something, like a claw or something to drop
at Thordak's feet. It'll help with the bluff.

MARISHA: What makes you think that he would lead
the charge to come find us? In his eyes he could

just send one of his peons to come smash us.

TRAVIS: Thordak?

MARISHA: Yeah.

TALIESIN: He's sent all of his dragons and
nothing's worked.

LAURA: That's the goal. We kill the peons, and
then he comes.

TALIESIN: And the more he sends, the more we
kill.

TRAVIS: What if we go mess up something on the
edge of Emon, and then we're like, "Yeah! Fuck you!"

And then we take off. Or like bamf back.

TALIESIN: I don't believe he'll suffer that much
indignity.

MARISHA: If we tell Thordak where we are he'll
probably come with that wyvern army that almost

took out Whitestone, correct?

LAURA: That's why we need to have a lot of people
here. To fight them.

TRAVIS: Yeah, to balance that out.

TALIESIN: And that also means that the Clasp will
have an opportunity to take back the city.

MARISHA: While he's gone?

TALIESIN: If he leaves with his army, yes. If he
leaves his army to actually manage the city--

LAURA: That's what we talked about.

TALIESIN: Either way, it's stretching him thin.

TRAVIS: Is it a bit of a practice round if we go
to the Fire Plane? Let's say we get there and it's

a total shit show, right? Nothing but death
waiting for us. We change our mind, we leave. But

at least we see where Thordak's been all this
time.

MARISHA: And the other thing that we could glean
from the fire realm is possibly figuring out a

little bit more about the connection he had with
it and to the heart stone, ember seed thing?

LAURA: All right. Allura, can you send a message
to Gilmore, or Cassandra, or Kima even? Maybe just

those three. They're the only ones who know about
Raishan. Let them know that Raishan is bringing

back Asum.

TALIESIN: They were there.

LAURA: I know, but just to make sure everything's
fine with that.

MATT: "I can do that, yes."

SAM: And then we're going to the Fire Plane?

TRAVIS: Yeah. Just give it a look-see.

SAM: Just pop on down for a bit to the basement.

TRAVIS: Yeah! I've got a timeshare there. It will
be killer.

MARISHA: I'd like to bring Raishan with us to the
Fire Plane.

SAM: No fucking way.

LAURA: No. What are we going to do? She's not
going to come.

TALIESIN: She's not going to come to the Fire
Plane.

MARISHA: She knows it better than anybody else.

TALIESIN: She's not going to come to the Fire
Plane. But you're right, she does. If I were her I

wouldn't come.

LAURA: Would you want to go, Allura?

MATT: "What, to the Fire Plane? I mean, I can. My
skills are probably better used elsewhere. But

"whatever you think is wisest."

TALIESIN: We need agents on the ground right now.

TRAVIS: True.

LAURA: All right.

TALIESIN: Things need to move forward here.

LAURA: Okay, then you stay here and keep running
things.

TALIESIN: If opportunities present themselves to
bring more people here or to gather more allies,

take them.

SAM: Let's pop on down!

MARISHA: My gosh, you guys, the Dawn Martyr is in
the City of Brass. Which I'm pretty sure is

overrun with fire elementals.

TRAVIS: It's just a "myth," though, right? And
that was probably written a long time ago which

means shit could have totally changed.

SAM: Plus now we have a lot of money. We can buy
our way through the Fire Plane.

TALIESIN: That works.

LAURA: Is this stupid? Are we going to die in the
Fire Plane?

LIAM: I think it's a bad idea. I don't think we
have time.

TRAVIS: Never tell me the odds!

LAURA: But there's a Vestige there for Pike.

MARISHA: I mean, we can go. We can hit the Fire
Ashari first and see if Cerkonos is there and

maybe see if Cerkonos wants to help us out?

LIAM: If we're all alive in two weeks I'd be happy
to go and get armor for Pike, but there's dragons

on top of our backs right now.

MARISHA: Allura, you're certain as soon as he
finds out about Vorugal's death that he's going to

seek retribution?

MATT: "I'm not certain, but as soon as he found
out about Umbrasyl's, that's when he sent things

"looking for us near Whitestone. That was when
Vorugal and the rest of the armies swept through.

"That was two days after Umbrasyl's fall."

LIAM: We've also totally spilled our spaghetti
with Raishan. She's not going to wait, she's going

to push things forward. I don't think we have
time.

TRAVIS: All right, Vax. Do you have a suggestion
in place, then?

LIAM: I think that we talk to Raishan. These two
chuckle-heads convince her to let us take a pound

of her flesh, or ten. Somehow dump it insultingly
at Thordak's feet and brace for the worst.

TRAVIS: I'm okay with that, but how do we get in
touch with her?

SAM: We can get in touch with her when she goes
back to the place that shall not be named. But all

of that is going to take days. And we can't do
that until the armies have arrived here in Fort

Daxio, which could take another few days. I don't
know where Syngorn lands when it comes back to

this plane. I assume it's not next door. They're
going to take days to get here.

LAURA: The thing is, Thordak's going to send out
look-sees like he did over Whitestone, as soon as

he finds out Umbrasyl is dead. It doesn't mean
he'll launch an attack, because where is he going

to attack? He doesn't know where we are.

SAM: Yeah! And if he's searching for us, what
better place to be than on a different plane?

TRAVIS: Let's go to a different plane.

MARISHA: Do you think he went to the place which
shall not be named because Raishan tipped him off

that we were there?

TRAVIS and TALIESIN: No.

MARISHA: Why did he go to the place that shall not
be named, then? Why did he look there?

TRAVIS: Vorugal?

TALIESIN: It was a place to be looked at. And they
flew over and didn't see it.

MARISHA: You think they were just scanning?

TALIESIN: I do.

SAM: All in favor of the Fire Plane, say "Aye."

SAM and TRAVIS: Aye!

SAM: That was only two! Wow, that's pretty rough.

TRAVIS: No, that was four. They're pansies and
won't say anything with their voice.

ASHLEY: I don't know.

SAM: All in favor of staying say, "cooter."

TALIESIN: That's not fair.

SAM: Two to one.

TRAVIS: Let's go! Even if it sucks, we can just
come right back.

LAURA: We just bamf right back!

MARISHA: We can always come back. And I would like
to maybe see if we could find out more about the

ember seed. Fire Plane!

LIAM: I mean there's nothing else we can do today,
is there?

TRAVIS: Right. No.

SAM: Feed more soldiers.

TALIESIN: Supplies are on the way. Soldiers are on
the way.

TRAVIS: Cows eat hay.

TALIESIN: Do what you can-- Cows eat hay, neigh neigh.
Hey! So we say.

LIAM: Gather ye rosebuds, while ye may. Vox
Machina is dying.

LAURA: If you hear back from anyone in Syngorn or
anyone anywhere, will you send us a message?

MATT: "Yes, and I will notify the general of these
plans before I head on that way. Very well. Good luck."

LAURA: Pretend like we were never here. Let them
know. Pretend like we were never here.

MATT: "Understood."

LAURA: All right.

MATT: "Stay safe, friends." She turns and leaves
the room.

LAURA: We are so stupid. This is going to be fun.

TALIESIN: Yes! I love it.

TRAVIS: Do we hold hands again?

MARISHA: Oh boy!

LAURA: No, it's a tree stride.

MARISHA: Nope, well, okay. If we are--

LIAM and SAM: Plane Shift.

MARISHA: Hang on, do we want to stop off at the
Fire Ashari, and pick up Cerkonos? I think it's

not a bad idea.

SAM: No.

MARISHA: We are not going to bring along our
ally who knows the Fire Plane better than anyone alive?

LAURA: No, I think we should. Because they were
there.

LIAM: Yeah, and you said we can instantaneously
jump over, grab him, and shift--

MARISHA: Once I tree stride we can, there's that
portal there, and we can go through the portal.

TRAVIS: Yeah, yeah. I am a big fan of the tour
guide.

MARISHA: The tour guide. All right. We're going to
tree stride to the Fire Ashari.

MATT: All right. Most of the trees near or within
the courtyard of the fort are thin, and maybe like

a foot to a half a foot wide, and--

ASHLEY: Get skinny, get skinny!

MATT: You did see that cluster of brownish-red
forest canopy across the ravine. But that's the

only real--

MARISHA: Across the ravine?

MATT: Yeah, on the opposite side.

TRAVIS: Let's hoof it. I need to stretch my legs
anyway.

MARISHA: Well, how big was the ravine, like
crossing the Grand Canyon?

SAM: How long to get there?

MATT: It's about a third of the width of the Grand
Canyon, maybe? It's a big ravine.

LAURA: Can you Plane Shift us over to the Ashari?
It has to be to another plane.

MARISHA: It has to be to another plane.

LIAM: Scanlan, can you turn us into a bunch of
hummingbirds, or something?

SAM: I can turn a couple of us into some things.

LAURA: Just something little? So that we can pop
to the tree?

SAM: You two can fly, right?

MATT: It would take you a handful of hours to walk
to this.

LAURA: Oh, yeah. So let's fucking do it.

TRAVIS: Told you.

MATT: At a brisk pace on foot you'll get there in
three hours.

TRAVIS: I put Pike on my shoulders because I'm
getting ready for my Rocky training montage.

TALIESIN: We'll get as many of us on the carpet as
possible.

MARISHA: (groans) RIP the carpet.

TALIESIN: You should feel bad!

LIAM: I should feel bad?

MATT: All right. You guys eventually make your way
to the outside of the forest here in the Othendin

Pass. You can see, it's a living forest. But the
trees themselves, it looks like there was a

waterfall that actually breaks down off the top of
the cliff that comes down and forms a small pool.

Most of it's dried up, but the ground here is
damp. And the forest does seem to exist in this

climate. However, a lot of the leaves have turned
and they're hitting the delayed end of winter, a

few months after the Winter's Crest Festival. You
find a number of trees that are perfectly

serviceable for your spellcasting. You guys wait
as Keyleth completes her ritual. You can see the

tree suddenly shifts open on the opposite end. You
can see the caldera itself, where the Pyrah Ashari

exist on the top of this mountainous volcano. You
all step through and find yourself now on the

cracked, dark, ashen ground landscape amongst the
various rock-like structures that house their

people. You can see the Cinder Grove in the
distance. Nowhere near as tumultuous as the last

time you encountered it. And you now stand amongst
the remaining Pyrah. You do now see the survivors

that you met earlier, and a few other survivors
that previously had not been found have gathered.

And whereas previously you only thought maybe a
little over 20 existed, it looks like maybe

there's a good 50 or 60 that actually are
beginning to rebuild the Fire Ashari.

TALIESIN: We're going to blow it up again, woo!
Table flip!

LAURA: Look at that! Keyleth! There's so many more
people than you thought!

MARISHA: There's still kids!

MATT: Like two.

MARISHA: Like two kids! One of those days they
might grow up.

TALIESIN: We're going to take like, 20 of them to
the fight. And they'll be fine.

MARISHA: (nervous laughter) Come on, kids! Have a
sword!

LIAM: That's a big "if."

MATT: It doesn't take you long to find Cerkonos,
who at this point in time has regrown his arm.

MARISHA: Yeah, I knew he'd be all right.

MATT: He approaches now, his darkened skin
tattooed, his long hair past his shoulders. He

approaches with an expression of surprise and mild
confusion. "It is good to to see all of you. I

"ask, what brings you to the doorstep of the Pyrah
Ashari?"

MARISHA: Cerkonos, Thordak has taken over Emon.
And in the time that he has broken out of the Fire

Plane, it seems there is a certain magic that is
allowing him to essentially turn Emon into a

second Fire Plane. We believe he still has some
sort of connection here based on the binding magic

that was used on him in the past. Something called
an ember seed. Have you heard of this?

MATT: "This does not stir my memory reserves. I'm
sorry."

MARISHA: Do you remember if Raishan, when she was
moving in and out of the Fire Plane, do you

remember her mentioning anything about it? Or
anything suspicious about wanting to learn about

the connection to the Fire Plane?

MATT: "There were inquiries, yes. I was surprised
by one so young seemingly to be so interested in

"the inner and outer planes and their interactions.
She found much of her time in solace in the Cinder

"Grove. She was not quick to pick up the druidic
magics, but her research was in depth. She spoke

"with many elders, myself included."

MARISHA: Where is the Cinder Grove? Did we pass
through the Cinder Grove?

MATT: The Cinder Grove is in the center of the
caldera. That's the petrified forest that is

surrounding where the actual tear in the boundary
is. Where the Fire Ashari hold vigil.

LAURA: Wasn't the ember seed connected to the--
Didn't we knock down some pillars when we came to

the Fire Plane the last time? Isn't that part of
the reason his hold was broken?

MARISHA: It was opened more. The portal got weak
when it was around the solstice.

LAURA: Right. But remember, we were here for
your--

MARISHA: We fought Cerkonos, who was essentially a
giant elemental. I don't remember us breaking

anything.

MATT: No, when you first came here it was part of
your Aramente, and you guys just passed through

the tear. And you battled Cerkonos and the other
druids in elemental form as part of a test. There

was some stones on the other side but there was
nothing--

LAURA: Okay, maybe you just thought that and were
freaking out a bit.

MARISHA: Yeah, I got a little panicky at one
point. Yeah. Thordak was connected by the soul gem.

And we know he busted through. You know the Fire
Plane better than anyone. We are also looking for

the Plate of Dawnmartyr in the City of Brass.

MATT: When you say the City of Brass, you watch
his demeanor change. His arms cross, and he leans

back into himself. "That is not a place for the
Ashari. It is a place of tyranny and greed. It is

"a unique mix of those who exist there, and if you
are intent on going, I am happy to escort you, but

"it is a different experience than we are used to,
and perhaps yourself as well."

LAURA: Is it a large city?

MATT: "It is quite big, yes."

TALIESIN: This is the direst of situations.
Extreme measures must be taken.

MATT: "The choice is yours. You have come this
far."

MARISHA: How long is the journey to the City of
Brass?

MATT: "From the tear, it is about three days' foot
travel." Your Plane Shift spell can bring you

directly to a location as long as you're aware of
it.

MARISHA: Right.

SAM: We can go right there. Be right in the center
of the city. Land right in Main Street, next to

the Reebok store.

LIAM: I have a sweater. I've hidden it in
Manhattan. Go find it.

(laughter)

MATT: Yeah.

TRAVIS: Let's do it.

LAURA: It feels like it's going to be really
hard.

TRAVIS: I mean, everything we do is, right? I mean
every time we've faced a dragon, we go find another

Vestige. It feels like the rhythm is right on
this. Let's go!

MARISHA: Here's the worst-case scenario though.
We're gone, we come back, Thordak has obliterated

everything, including Fort Daxio.

SAM: Yeah, but good news. We're still alive.

TRAVIS: We're alive! High-five, Scanlan!

TALIESIN: The stones don't work across planes, do
they?

LIAM: The gatestones? No.

TALIESIN: But Allura's ability to send messages
does.

MATT: This is true. From what she said, yes.

TALIESIN: So if things start going very haywire,
we can let her know that she is to call us

immediately and we will drop what we're doing.

SAM: She could probably figure that out on her
own.

LAURA: Yeah, whatever we're doing. Even if we're
in the middle of fighting some really big fire

elementals we just--

TALIESIN: Plane Shift.

LIAM: Of course, we'd have to get a message to her
to tell her that.

SAM: She would probably figure that out.

TRAVIS: Yeah, she'll figure it out. And we've
got an amazing tour guide. It's set up for us.

Can't fail. 0% APR.

LIAM: You big lovable lug. I still think it's a
very bad idea. I'll go if you all want to go.

MATT: Cerkonos turns to you, Grog, and says, "I do
not mean to be misunderstanding. I will take you

"to the city, but I will not enter it."

TRAVIS: Yeah. I'm good with that. I mean you'll
take us there, right? You'll give us a couple of

warnings, maybe point at something if it's
terrible, and then you've got to go because it's

going to mess with you?

MATT: "I am of no use in that city."

TRAVIS: Now why is that, like you've got feelings
about it? Or you're afraid of it? Or you'll be

powerless there?

MATT: "Most of all of that."

TRAVIS: Powerless?

MATT: "There are many powerful entities that exist
in the city. I am not a man for cultured places."

TRAVIS: You've been before?

MATT: "I've been near."

SAM: Let's just pop in, pop out, guys. What could
go wrong?

TALIESIN: We're gathering forces at Fort Daxio to
fight this dragon. And if you can lend any of your

power, or have any power you can send, we'd be
forever grateful.

MARISHA: Do you think you could reach out to
Korren?

MATT: "I could. How soon?"

TALIESIN: Soon. That is where we will head
immediately when we are done here.

MATT: "All right. Then I will lead you, if you
choose to go to this city. And then I will call

"for your father, we will send what we can
spare."

MARISHA: Well, if you don't want to go inside, I
can Plane Shift us there. We don't necessarily

need you, I guess? I mean, we need you, but I'm
wondering if you'd be better here.

MATT: "No offense taken. If you wish to continue
your journey, I can go and try and round up the

"Ashari that can fight."

SAM: Let's do that.

MARISHA: Do you know anything of where Thordak was
held?

MATT: "I did not know Thordak existed until he
tore through our people. So unfortunately not."

MARISHA: Is there anyone here left that Raishan
spoke to the most? A confidant? Someone who might

have been aiding her?

MATT: "It's hard to tell. Many who were near those
discussions were slain, I'm sorry."

MARISHA: Well, that's fair.

TRAVIS: We're good.

LAURA: Scanlan, will you be able to do the mansion
inside of the Fire Plane? Or did you already use it--

SAM: Sure, right? I can do my magic wherever. I
have no idea, I've never been to the Fire Plane.

LAURA: No, I mean, but did you already use it
today?

SAM: No, I used it yesterday.

MATT: Correct, you would still have the ability to
use it today.

TALIESIN: All right. I think we've done an
enormous amount towards getting prepared for this.

LAURA: Does everything over there fight with
fire?

MATT: "Not everything. But many things there have
fire by nature. Or at least, the ability to live

"among it. There are many parts of the Fire Plane
that you should not traverse. It would destroy you

"immediately."

LAURA: The City of Brass sucks, but we'll be okay
going there, ish?

MATT: "It's one of the few places that can support
a city, so yes."

LIAM: Kind of hot?

MATT: "It is very hot there. The longer you stay,
the more difficult it is for such frail beings as

"us to exist."

TRAVIS: Speak for yourself.

LAURA: In and out.

TRAVIS: Pull the trigger, travel agent.

MARISHA: Let's do this shit.

MATT: "Stay safe. I will see you soon at this Fort
Daxio."

LAURA: Thank you so much.

SAM: This was a worthwhile trip already.

LIAM: I'm setting my armor to fire resistance.

ASHLEY: Is there anything else we need to know, to
be safe, to look out for while we're there?

MATT: "Nothing which you haven't already seen.
Just know there are many denizens there that enjoy

"the tyranny, so be careful. Don't start any
wars."

LAURA: Can I say while this whole talk's been going on,
that I've been unattuning my coldsnap armor and

reattuning my bracers of archery?

MATT: Sure. It will take you guys a short rest to
do all that. Plus, with your reattune there. You

guys take a short rest while Cerkonos takes a
couple of the other nearby Pyrah with him and they

head off towards the Cinder Grove. Presumably, to
communicate with your father.

MARISHA: Cool.

LAURA: Can I ask you a question?

MATT: Yes.

LAURA: If I have two bows that are awesome, and
I'm attuned to both of them, how easy is it to

switch in a battle?

MATT: If you have two bows that are attuned to
you?

LAURA: Yeah. If I chose to attune to the Sky
Sentinel and Fenthras instead of the bracers?

MATT: I mean, it's possible. But the idea of
having one wielded and one on your back, pulling

it out. You're not proficient and fast in
bow-drawing.

LAURA: It'd be an action to switch them out in a
battle?

MATT: Maybe. Probably. You could drop one, but
then pulling the other one out, getting it around

you, arrow out. It would probably take you an
action.

LAURA: Cool.

SAM: Let's just go, man.

TRAVIS: Yeah, I'm standing there with my eyes
closed and my hands out.

LAURA: Hey! That all happened in a millisecond. I
was considering things in my brain.

TRAVIS: I'm showing my willingness to go.

MARISHA: Let's go. City of Brass, yo.

MATT: All right. So focusing on the City of Brass.
You all gather hands. As Keyleth concentrates, you

feel the already warm air of the cauldron of this
volcanic mountain. You feel a blast of heat

surround you, this whirlwind of hot air that
causes your eyes to close instinctually. You feel

the edges of your skin, the hairs begin to curl.
Your brows begin to singe. As you close your eyes

instinctually, you open them again. And looking
around you see a familiar broken landscape of

shattered stone rock, reddish and iron-like in
coloration. You see various stone obelisks that

are jutting out of the ground from broken and at
some points seismic earth that had been pushed up

from underneath where gouts of flame occasionally
spill out and burst into the sky. The air itself

carries a sulfuric and ionized scent to it. You
can see darkened clouds of smoke and soot that

slowly shift in the distance. Way off towards the
horizon, almost the equivalent of a darkened storm

in the distance, except it's a sheet of roaring
fire. Just taking up an entire quarter of the

skyline, miles and miles away from you. You don't
know if it's coming closer or further away, but

it's frightening. As you glance over your
shoulder, you see behind you a glimmer of whatever

source of light this land takes into itself
reflecting off of dozens upon dozens of reflective

metallic buildings and towers and domes. And one
large, dark metal wall that surrounds the

exterior. You see upon this, what you assume to be
the City of Brass. And that's where we're going to

go ahead and take a break.

TRAVIS and MARISHA: Shit.

MATT: Be right back here in a few minutes!

LAURA: Oh, right! With the announcement of our
winners!

MATT: It might be a little bit of a longer break,
we'll be back here shortly, guys. Be patient, see

you in a minute.

[break]

MATT: Welcome back, ladies and gentlemen. Before
we get into the game, we're going to go ahead and

announce our winners for the Critical Costumes
contest we ran!

(cheering)

MATT: Once again, every costume put out there
was fantastic. Seriously, you guys, it was one of

the coolest things to see, a bunch of characters
in our silly little D&D game realized, physically,

by other people is crazy.

LIAM: It's also, I amass everything and I couldn't
get in all the awesome, even into what we put into

the slideshow in the episode and in the gallery on
Geek & Sundry today. There were so many good

costumes and we're blown away by-- I mean, it was
a massive amount.

MARISHA: A lot came in at the eleventh hour, too,
so if you didn't see yours in the slideshow-- we

still probably saw, but that would be why.

LAURA: Yeah, because we've been looking at the
hashtag like crazy.

MATT: Which, by the way, if you haven't looked
yet, go look at the hashtag CriticalCostumes and

marvel at how many awesome, talented people out
there made crazy Halloween costumes. So do it.

We're going to go ahead and begin with our
personal choices, across the bay. You want to

start over here?

TRAVIS: Sure! I chose @couple_cosplay for his
white, muscular version of Grog. Grog got abs, y'all.

(cheering)

ASHLEY: I chose the most lovely and wonderful
@KinnVelier. Her picture of Pike had the perfect

pose, the most wonderful costume, everything was
there. Winner, winner, chicken dinner.

LAURA: My personal choice was @sara-rokhov! I
don't know if I said that right, but she did the

costume that was closest to the outfit that we
wore in the opening credits, which is really

cool because I know that's really intricate, and I
saw the sleeves. There was crazy pleated sleeves

happening on that costume!

MARISHA: Yeah, she got, like, real close.

LAURA: It was awesome!

LIAM: I'm going to cheat. I'm giving mine to
@missbelletrist and @miss_riahne for doing Vex and

Vax throwing money around and flipping daggers and
climbing trees. Great photos, great costumes,

great attitude.

LAURA and ASHLEY: Yeah.

MARISHA: I'm going to go with Woodson Schindler
AKA @CriticalCorrupt for his Manleth. He did a

bearded Keyleth.

ASHLEY: What?!

MARISHA: Oh yeah, it was legit. And his eyeshadow
was on point. I just want to say. So

@CriticalCorrupt, you're awesome.

TALIESIN: Wow, okay! I'm going to go with Karin
Rindevall, @karrey over in Gothenburg, for the

amazing Percy being very, very busy and at work
and reading.

LAURA: Upper crust?

TALIESIN: And very upper crust. Very fancy. The
fanciest. So fancy.

SAM: My choice was an obvious one. It's
@cat_cosplay for the cat version of Scanlan, or as

I call him, CAT Scan. And for those asking, we're
not putting up these pictures right now because we

literally just picked them one minute ago, but
we'll be retweeting our current, our personal

picks of the evening. So you can watch our
twitters, or maybe @CriticalRole can tweet them

out or something? Okay.

MATT: Yeah, well done. My personal choice is
@jettiebettie who did an amazing Ripley. Not just

costume and presentation, but the intensity of
expression, the personality. It was a fantastic

capturing of the character and the minute I saw it
I was like, oh, there she is.

LIAM: Straight out of Central Casting.

MATT: Yeah, it was amazing. Awesome job.

LIAM: So those are our personal picks and we also
all picked a third place, a second place, and a

first place.

MARISHA: Overall winners.

LIAM: (dramatic voice) Overall winners. Here they
are. Number three: (normally) @kwwins, who is also

an artist for us all the time, was chosen for
number three for her Minxie/Keyleth transformation pic.

LAURA: That was so cool! Good concept.

MARISHA: That was so well done.

LIAM: Number two goes to @norfrosch who did the
amazing Victor with crazy eyebrows.

LAURA: So good!

MATT: Yeah, it takes a lot to shame my Victor. Not
really, I threw mine together. And then that one,

the day after, I saw that picture and went, "Well,
damn. I lose." It was amazing!

MARISHA: He was like, "Oh, she did way better than
I did."

MATT: It was amazing.

LIAM: And in first place--

MARISHA: We have to go to a commercial break! Stay
tuned.

MATT: No.

LIAM: Loot Crate!

LAURA: Close up on all of us looking at each other
like, who's it going to be?

MATT: Oh, god.

LIAM: Yeah, so for an amazing Percy in bird mask,
both an amazing photo, amazing costume--

LAURA: Amazing weapon.

LIAM: Amazing weapon, @calahammer is our first
place winner.

(cheering)

ASHLEY: That one took my breath away a little bit.
Rad.

TRAVIS: (singing) Take my breath away...

(a capella version of Take My Breath Away)

MATT: And a gathered round of applause for all
those amazing costumes. Everyone did an incredible

job. Seriously.

LAURA: And just so you know, all of you winners,
@CriticalRole on twitter will follow you so you

can DM your mailing address and get your wonderful
prizes.

SAM: Some of the prizes include shirts that I've
worn on the stream, some of which I have

laundered.

LAURA: Oh, god. Some prizes may include part of my
dice hoard.

TALIESIN: We're going to send a weird little
Halloween cornucopia of weird. It'll be great.

MARISHA: We're going to raid our closets. Hook you
guys up.

TRAVIS: Hook it up!

SAM: All right.

MATT: All righty.

LAURA: Oh no, oh no, oh no! Okay, City of Brass,
City of Brass, here we go.

TALIESIN: (singing) City of Brass! City of
Brass--

TRAVIS: Nobody's with you.

SAM: (singing) City of Brass!

TALIESIN: Thank you! Just one Doors fan.

MATT: As you guys take in the intensity of the
atmosphere, looking up at the one blaring, bright

sun in the sky, locked in that reddish-orange
atmosphere above you, you look around as the wind

picks up, the heat carrying ash and black soot
through, forcing you to wince and keep your eyes

somewhat closed. You immediately begin to pull
scarves up in front to try and filter this

aggressive and caustic air.

MARISHA: I'm going to go ahead and cast Protection
from Energy on myself with fire.

SAM: Good for you.

LAURA: Yeah, right? It's a concentration spell, or
else I would've taken it too. You can't do it with

anything else.

MATT: Looking as to where that giant wall of fire
across the horizon is, you see it begin to merge

closer and closer, the edge of that sea, until
eventually it comes to the City of Brass, which

you see behind you-- this large, amazing, vast
city of various reflective, metallic surfaces. You

see pointed spires, round domes, and hundreds and
hundreds of these buildings that sprawl out beyond

the wall that you see on the outside of it. What
would you guys like to do?

TRAVIS: Before we go any farther, if we want to
pull the ripcord, what does that look like?

SAM: What do you mean, if we want to go back?

TRAVIS: Yeah.

MARISHA: We have to, I think, be in a fairly safe
space and give me a minute?

TRAVIS: One minute.

MARISHA: Let me double check before I say that.

SAM: Are we already backing out of this, Grog?

TRAVIS: No, I'm making sure that we're not like,
"Oh, we've got to go! Oh shit!"

MARISHA: Nope, I lied. It's instantaneous.

TRAVIS: But we all got to be touching?

MARISHA: Me and up to eight willing creatures who
link hands in a circle.

LAURA, ASHLEY, and TRAVIS: Okay.

LAURA: What's our Jenga?

MARISHA: Yeah, what's our code word?

SAM: Super Jenga!

LAURA: "Super Jenga" means everybody run towards
each other and link hands.

LIAM: So "Jenga" means "I fucked up, my name is
Vax." And "Super Jenga" means we have to link hands

and bounce.

TRAVIS: "Duck, duck, goose" means it's playtime.

LAURA: Yeah.

SAM: Let's walk into the City of Brass.

TRAVIS: Yeah.

MATT: All right. As you guys begin stepping
towards this, and it is hard to gauge distance on

this city's size, even from just arriving in this
place.The more you walk, the slower its arrival

comes as you begin to take in the sheer immensity
of its sprawling expanse. You see little

occasional bursts of flame off from the opposite
side of the wall, some small shapes coasting over,

a little glow pass. And as you get close enough,
I'm going to have everyone roll a perception check.

TRAVIS: I got this, you guys.

LAURA: 27.

MARISHA: 25.

TALIESIN: 15.

LIAM: 27.

TRAVIS: 12.

SAM: Bullshit over here.

ASHLEY: 21!

TRAVIS: 12.

MATT: Okay. Keyleth, what did you get?

MARISHA: 25.

MATT: 25, and you got--?

TALIESIN: 15.

MATT: All right, so Keyleth and the twins. You
guys, looking ahead, you're beginning to see these

darkish shapes moving towards the edge of one of
the first gates that you notice amongst the

reflective surface of the outer wall. It is a
solid door, like two large doors that are affixed

to each other with a cross-chain circumstance. You
see six figures currently mounting, shifting, and

walking along the side of the wall. As you get
closer still you can make out: they look humanoid:

two arms, two legs. It's hard to make out their
size in respect to where you are, and in paying

attention as you approach you do notice that some
of them have varying shades of colored skin. They

wear loose silk outfits: wide, baggy air-filled
pants with long robes or vests that dangle below.

Muscular. The skin on a few of them appears to be
deep crimson or orangish-red. Two of them, the

skin actually almost goes to more like a black, a
deep soot and ash color. You begin to see more

details in the skin. You see horns and large fangs
from underneath. You see large, scimitar-like

blades to the side. You've seen one of these
creatures before. It emerged from the tear in the

Fire Plane last time you were there. There are six
efreeti that are currently standing guard outside

of the gate to the city.

LIAM: Genies.

LAURA: Basically. They're really powerful.

ASHLEY: They're very smart.

SAM: Think we can talk to them?

TRAVIS: Yes, let's parlay.

LAURA: Should we go and talk to them?

TRAVIS: Only one should talk.

SAM: Why are you all looking at me?!

LIAM: Because you have the gift of gab.

LAURA: You are really good. Go talk to them,
Scanlan. Be super cool.

SAM: Greetings! Hello! Hi there!

TRAVIS: Oh shit, you're doing it.

MATT: As you say this haphazardly from the
distance, you see three of them all of a sudden,

their attention right over in your direction. Two
of them immediately begin to lift up off the

ground and their legs vanish into a plume of flame
and smoke as they (whoosh) almost like rockets in

the sky, heading over in your direction. The other
one goes into a run towards you.

LAURA: Oh, Jesus!

SAM: Are they attacking?

LIAM and MATT: You don't know.

LAURA: I keep a hand on the bow, just in case.

MATT: Okay.

ASHLEY and LAURA: Steady.

MATT: As you all very nervously sit there and
wait, the two that are cruising through the sky go

slamming into the ground to the immediate right
and left of Scanlan, not far from you guys,

leaving these small craters. The flaming smoke,
the lower portion of their body poofs outward,

scattering ash as you see now their legs, muscular
and thick like trunks of reddish-black muscle.

They both stand and glance downward at this tiny
little gnome by comparison, each of them standing

about ten to 12 feet in full height.

LAURA: Oh, fuck!

MARISHA: The efreetis?

MATT: The efreetis.

LAURA: They're so big.

MATT: The one that's running eventually catches up
to you and slows his gait and puts his hands

behind his back, puts his chin up, and begins
walking. You can see now he has these two long

tufts of black hair that are braided into this
long braid that floats gently as the heated breeze

continues to blow past you. As he begins to
approach, he looks out among the rest of your

group and then down at this tiny gnome that has
stepped up to greet them.

SAM: We request passage into your city.

MATT: "What is your business?"

SAM: We are travelling salespeople and we are here
to sell our wares.

MATT: "What wares are you here to sell?"

SAM: One item in particular, which could be of
much value to the people in your city.

MATT: "Then show me this item of value."

SAM: I don't think you want to see it.

MATT: "Then you don't want to enter the city."

SAM: All right. It's a pet of ours that we've been
travelling with. It's right back there. And I

point behind us to an empty space.

MATT: He glances over towards the empty space.

SAM: You don't see it? Oh, I forgot. We've made it
invisible. Let me drop the spell. And I will cast

Major Image, and I am making a goristro, right
behind us, that looks a lot like Yenk because

that's the only one I've ever seen.

(laughter)

TRAVIS: Oh, I love you.

SAM: 20 feet tall, snarling, growling, just a
fucking nightmare.

MATT: Okay. So is it just standing there
snarling?

SAM: Yeah, looking real mean and ornery with spit
coming off of him.

MATT: Okay. All right. At this point, the three
efreeti are glancing in that direction. First off,

go ahead and make a deception check.

LIAM: This is the weirdest day.

LAURA: Ever.

SAM: 28.

MARISHA: You don't think the day when we were cows
was far weirder? That was pretty weird.

MATT: They glance over. They all very intensely
inspect from a distance this goristro that has now

appeared, that is snarling approximately how far
away from you? The range is 120 feet in the spell.

SAM: Let's say 60 feet back.

MATT: All right. The central one looks to the
efreet to his left, or to the right of you, gives

him a nudge, and that efreeti-- that efreet begins
to step away.

SAM: Ah, ah, ah! You don't get to touch our pet.
Please allow us entry to your city and we will find

someone who can afford to touch him.

MATT: "Hmm." The efreet that you halted takes a
few more steps, not paying heed as the one that's

in front of you goes, "So you're looking to sell
this as a servant. This beast will work as a

"servant, or does it work in servitude?"

SAM: It works for me, for the moment, and I can
get it to work for someone else for a price. But

if your man goes over there, he's going to die,
because I will tell my goristro to kill him.

MATT: "Hmph. It is rare to see something so small
able to control something so vicious and

"dangerous." And you see him leaning in now, closer
to you. You see these tiny little burning beads of

red flame as the center of his eyes, against a
black iris. You see, as he gets closer, the grin

begins to curl across the rows and rows of
sharpened, white, gleaming teeth. He says, "You,

"such a small, easy-to-crush creature, can seem to
hold dominion over something that exists in places

"that would rend your mind asunder."

TALIESIN: I reach into the bag, and I'm going to
grab a little chunk of dragon and a chunk of the

previous goristro that we still have some bits of,
and drop them in front of him on the ground.

MATT: (dull thud) (sniff)

SAM: Those were my other pets.

MATT: (slurping) (spitting) He throws them to the
ground. He begins speaking in a language that you

don't understand. It sounds very much like the
slow, rolling fire-bursts of magma pouring down

the side of a mountain.

LAURA: What is it?

MARISHA: Can I recognize it, as a druid who has
spent time as a fire elemental?

MATT: You recognize the type. It is the same
language spoken by the fire elementals, but you do

not speak the language. But the efreet that
stepped away has stopped and is taking a moment to

look from about a 40-foot distance from the
goristro.

LAURA: (distressed sounds)

MATT: (loud sniff) And begins walking back toward
the other efreeti. The one before you, whose face

is still up in front of you, is reading you. His
head is about the size of your entire body. And he goes--

SAM: I'll put my hands behind my back and stand up
a little taller to meet him.

MATT: "If you wish to walk the city, then pay the
toll."

SAM: How much would the toll be?

MATT: "How much do you think the toll is worth?"

SAM: Vex?

MATT: "If the toll is insufficient, and I find
offense at the offer, then you will have bigger

"problems than entry. But generosity goes a long
way."

LAURA: So like, money? Is it money, then?

SAM: The money that we carry with us is from a
far-off land. Will it still be good here? It's

gold and platinum.

LAURA: Or would you rather gems?

MATT: "Gems are good as well. Money is money. We
work and deal with many creatures from many places

"here. What do you offer?"

LAURA: Should I just, you know what, fuck it? I'm
going to put the 20-pound bag of gems in his hand.

MATT: He takes it and closes the fingers of his
hand around it, then shakes it a little and listens.

SAM: 20 pound?

MATT: He begins to pour the gems out. He takes a
very keen look at them--

TRAVIS: Who are you and what have you done with
Vex?

LAURA: The world is fucking ending, you guys. How
else am I going to use these things?

SAM: Who are you right now?

MATT: He pulls the tiny drawstring taut once
again. "May you enjoy your time in the City of

"Brass. Now, I suggest your wineskins be full." And
he turns around and the efreeti all begin to walk

away towards the entrance to the city.

SAM: Loudly and conspicuously I say: Stanley,
invisible! And then he poofs away.

LAURA: Scanlan, I think you let a little bit of
scry on the ground there.

SAM: Let's just get in the city and buy me some
new pants.

TALIESIN: I pick up the dragon scales and put them
back in the bag.

LIAM: (Stan Lee voice) Greetings, true believers!

TRAVIS: We pick up the dragon parts and we move
into the city.

TALIESIN: That was a very good call.

LAURA: Fuck.

SAM: I throw up a little.

ASHLEY: You did really well.

TALIESIN: Always tip the doorman.

LIAM: I'm patting Scanlan on the back and wiping
his mouth.

SAM: Great, now we're inside this stupid city. Now
what do we need to find, a wall?

MARISHA: No, we have to-- hang on. Let's do a
quick refresher on the impossible needle we have

to find in this haystack.

LAURA: Oh, wait! Because I took a spell.

SAM: A 'Find Item Anywhere' spell?

LAURA: Locate Object.

SAM: Holy fucking shit.

MARISHA: Hang on, hold. I brought that spell as
well.

LAURA: Oh, okay.

MARISHA: It has to be within 1000 feet. 1000 feet
isn't a whole lot in this really large metropolis,

correct?

TRAVIS: We go to the front door, we do it once, go
to the middle, we do it again. Totally covered.

SAM: If you guys go 2000 feet apart, that's
essentially a mile spread.

LAURA: Right? How many miles is the city?

MATT: You have no idea, you haven't walked inside!
You've got no idea.

TALIESIN: We are walking towards the door. What do
we know?

MARISHA: So wait, there's a Beacon of Protection
for the Chosen of Pelor. It is gathering dust on a

wall somewhere in the City of Brass. It was a
trophy won by a fire giant in a card game from the

Suutan bloodline that once donned it.

TRAVIS: Fuck. We got to go find--

MARISHA: It could be hanging on a pub wall
somewhere, correct.

TRAVIS: No, it's a trophy. It's too valuable to be
in a pub.

MARISHA: Do we know where fire giants might hang
out? Or anything about the Suutan bloodline?

TRAVIS: It's on somebody's wall as a trophy.

LAURA: Maybe we should ask somebody.

MARISHA: I mean, it could be in a noble's house,
for all we know.

LIAM: Do we see anyone who looks remotely like us,
who's not from the Fire Plane, here?

MATT: Well you're just now approaching the front
gates where the six efreeti currently stand. As

the three that have returned, the central one
takes his hand up and does this with his finger.

And as he does, you watch as the criss-cross
chains that hold the gate shut suddenly shift, and

you watch dust and ash get shaken free from the
chains as they're all suddenly pulled upward

through these rings to the very top, and the
doors shift open very slowly, giving just enough

space for people of your physical width to pass
through. Grog, you have to squeeze a little.

TALIESIN: Good sir, one question before we enter
your city, since you are such a good friend and we

look forward to possibly being friends again
someday. Where would one find people who enjoy the

sport of watching large creatures battle? If you
could think of such a thing?

MATT: (laughs) "Welcome to the City of Brass."

TALIESIN: I love your answer.

MATT: As you guys walk in, the doors close behind
and you watch as the chains that were pulled

free, that now dangle loosely, automatically, on
their own, strike up like snakes, instantly, and

flash back through on the other side. You can hear
them retying themselves between the ring-loops to

seal off the doorway once again.

LIAM: We are in a city where everyone is going to
despise us.

LAURA: Not necessarily. Act really fucking tough,
dude.

MARISHA: Yeah, everyone wants to kick our ass.

TRAVIS: Should we get some jail tattoos before we
continue?

SCANLAN: I can make us all look really rough and
ragged.

TALIESIN: I think there's a lot of magic here.
Well, no, let's--

MATT: So as you say "let's" and it trails off, you
all take a moment to look into the city around

you. Marquet offered Ank'Harel, a very beautiful
city of ornate culture. This city has been around

far longer, and has been constructed by far more
intricate artisans since. You see hundreds of

buildings of different sizes, all constructed from
various types of materials, many of them metallic

and brass or bronze in color, reflecting the
ever-present sunlight from the sky. You can see

buildings carved from dark black obsidian. From
other forms of darkened stone you can see natural

rock formations of blackened rock and stone
jutting outward, where, crafted from that, you can

see communities of maybe dozens of buildings and
homes that have been constructed from it. You can

see towers that are impossibly high, hundreds of
feet up in the sky, some broken from previous

conflicts and never constructed since. You can see
a series of streets that intertwine out before you

with these tiny little cobblestones that all seem
to have a matching, ruddy, brownish earth tone

with a dusting of ash and red earth scattered
across them. You see throughout here human beings

occasionally. You see dozens upon dozens of
efreeti, walking around, crusted with jewelry and

wearing fine robes and linens. You can begin to
notice quickly that many of these efreeti walk along with

some of these humans, these humans walk at their
sides, some in chains.

ALL: Oh, shit.

MATT: You can see a number of individuals pedaling
small carts through, also in comparable levels of

enslavement. But not all are enslaved. There are
individuals from other areas you've never

recognized, various features. You see two
humanoids that walk around by themselves, their

features are human but not. There's something
about them that's a little off, but you can't

quite pick up what, and they walk off in the
distance. There is a gathering of many cultures

that make their way through here, but definitely
the dominant culture here appears to be one ruled

by the elemental fire djinn that you've already
encountered.

LIAM: The servants, the humans, and I don't know if
there's any elves, dwarves, halflings, or anything

in the mix, but people who are not from here, how
does their health appear?

MATT: Fine, if perpetually uncomfortable in the
current weather, which is, for the record, we're

hitting somewhere between 110°F to 120°F in the
air at all times here. I'd say, actually, in fact,

at this time, I'd like everyone to make a
constitution saving throw.

MARISHA: Do I get advantage because of the fire
resist?

MATT: You're fine. And actually, you having
fire-resistant armor, I would say you do not have

to make it, Vax. You feel naturally more
comfortable in here based on the resistance you've

given your enchantment.

MARISHA: Do I have to roll? Or am I good to go?

MATT: No, you're fine.

TALIESIN: Six! I'm going to use one of my
Resolves.

MATT: Okay.

TALIESIN: And slightly better: 15.

LAURA: 15.

ASHLEY: Seven?

TRAVIS: 19.

MATT: Okay. For the time you've been here, it's
been an unwelcoming atmosphere, but not one that

has been so harsh as to press down upon your
physical constitution. You all seem to withstand

the current atmosphere for now, but you do gather
that the longer you are here, the more difficult

it will be to endure this atmosphere without
detrimental effect.

MARISHA: I meant to note I wanted to put my Ring
of Protection on and put the cloak away when we

took that short rest. I don't know if I said that
out loud.

MATT: You did not say that out loud

MARISHA: Can I do that now?

MATT: Sure.

MARISHA: And it takes some time.

MATT: It's fine. So what do you wish to do now
that you've gained entry into the City of Brass?

LAURA: Let's find that armor.

TRAVIS: Keep walking. Let's keep walking and see
what we see.

LAURA: Yeah, we walk the fuck forward. Should we
get a little farther into the city or should I

cast it right now?

TALIESIN: I think the city's huge.

MARISHA: Hang on, how long does that spell last?

TALIESIN: That's the other question.

MARISHA: Grog, could you recognize fire giants if
you saw one? Are they akin to stone giants?

TRAVIS: I don't think so. I don't think I've ever
seen one.

MATT: You have not seen a fire giant in person in
all the time that you've spent on this plane.

TRAVIS: I bet I can pick it out, though, if
it's giant and it's made of fire.

MARISHA: And you're like, that's a fire giant. All
right, yeah, totally.

TALIESIN: Ten minutes-- and the other question is
if you can change into a flying creature.

LIAM: Are there any humans around right now who
look like they're not slaves? Who look well-off,

relatively?

MATT: Right now, you have not encountered any.
You've literally just walked into the city and

this is your first glance at the first street that
you've encountered. As you guys begin to walk

farther into the city, one thing that you do
notice, too, is there are these stationary torches

that meet at various crossroads. And at the top of
these torches there is a ball of flame that is

flickering and shooting off spurts here and there,
and every now and then you hear one go (flaring)

in the distance and that's what you were seeing on
the other side of the wall. These flames cause

this dancing light source effect throughout the
entire city due to the vastly metallic nature of

the building construct here. And so as you--

SAM: Sorry.

LAURA: Oh, wow. That might be the worst shirt
you've ever worn on the show.

SAM: Yeah, I'm out of shirts, guys.

74 fucking shirts. How many do I own? 74.

LIAM and LAURA: Wow.

LAURA: You'll be shirtless.

LIAM: I'm bringing you a new shirt for your
birthday, man.

TRAVIS and ASHLEY: "Okay, I farted. It was me."

LIAM: Holy moly. Bring it back, people. I'm
specifically looking for a human who is not a

slave, who looks reasonably well off.

TALIESIN: I'm looking for social gatherings, pubs,
and otherwise.

MARISHA: I'm going to talk to Vex as soon as we
get a hot second, whenever that falls.

MATT: Okay, so as you guys are walking, keeping
your eyes out before yourselves, you guys engage

in conversation as you continue into the city.

MARISHA: All right, so we both have the Locate
Object spell. It lasts for ten minutes and we can

both fly. We could both cast it and maybe do like
a perimeter run, maybe?

SAM: Wait, how long does it last?

MARISHA, LAURA, and TALIESIN: Ten minutes.

SAM: We can get a long fucking way in ten
minutes.

MARISHA: Yeah, if we're flying.

LAURA: As long as, you know, nothing attacks us.
Right. That's clutch.

MARISHA: Well, I could also potentially Polymorph
into something or Beast Shape into something

that-- Has there been any type of creatures?

LAURA: Flying creatures here?

TRAVIS: In the air?

LAURA: Maybe wyverns or something?

MATT: You haven't seen any, at the moment. You
have seen, so far, efreeti being capable of

flight, both from your previous encounter and the
two at the gate that just jettisoned off in your

direction before landing.

MARISHA: Okay, are they considered humanoid-ish?
To where I could Alter Self to look like an efreeti?

LAURA: A teeny, tiny efreeti.

MARISHA: Teeny, teeny efreeti? No?

MATT: No. From your Alter Self ability? No. They
are far too different in size, physiology, and

appearance to pass off as an efreet.

MARISHA: Are there any humanoids like, like--

TALIESIN: A fire elemental?

MARISHA: Or like dragonborn, or like what's the
thing that Zahra is? I'm drawing a blank right now.

SAM: Wyverns? Lizardpeople?

LAURA: Tieflings?

MARISHA: Tieflings, are there like any tieflings
around?

MATT: You can keep an eye out as you continue
walking forward. You don't see any yet.

MARISHA: I want to look for the most unsubjugated
humanoids.

MATT: Okay, so you keep an eye out as you
progress. And you're looking for--?

LIAM: Anyone who looks like they're not a servant,
who looks like they're maybe getting by well.

MARISHA: Yeah, kind of the same thing.

MATT: Okay. Continuing farther into the city. This
whole city has this vibrant life to it, from the

way it reflects light from the ever-changing,
flickering skylight from the sun, to the flames

that adorn every single conjunction of roads that
make their way through the city, to occasionally,

you will see cracks in the ground where a flame
will flare out then retract within. Go ahead and

make a perception check.

LAURA: Can we also keep an eye out for anything
flying? I want to see if anything's flying around

the city at all.

MATT: Okay.

LIAM: 22.

MATT: 22. No more than maybe five minutes into
your walk into the city, you do notice two efreeti

have begun to follow you from about 20 feet
behind. They're both walking and talking to

themselves, keeping an eye on you guys. Well,
they're about 25, 30 feet behind. As you continue

walking forward, you do bring your attention ahead
and at the next street junction, which is more

like two alleys that collide, you do see two
individuals that walk out. One of them is a

similar humanoid as to the strange-looking ones
you saw go walking by there. They have a thin

figure, sallow, elongated features, their hair is
wild and red and stringy and upward behind them.

Their eyes tend to have a non-human appearance to
them, the iris a light-orangish color. They have

long white and gold robes and are walking
alongside a tiefling of similar red skin to the

color of the efreeti here, with deep gray, long
hair that goes behind a ridge of horns that curl

into almost like ram horns in the front, and the
long, gray hair extends to the mid-back. They both

walk along side by side, their arms within their
robes-- both are wearing matching white and gold

robes-- and they each step out from the alley and
begin to walk ahead of you guys about 60, 70 feet.

LIAM: So it's these two strange beings with
strange eyes and a tiefling.

MATT: There's one entity that's the strange being
and the other is a tiefling.

LIAM: Oh, okay. So one is one and one's another,
thank you. I'm going to walk up to the tiefling,

like ten feet away. Excuse me! Sorry, can I
trouble you for a minute? I've just come to town.

I know, that sounds ridiculous, it is, I'm a
stranger in a strange land. Could I borrow you

just for a minute?

MATT: Make a persuasion check.

SAM: I just got to hell, haven't even unpacked my
bags--

LAURA: No warning, huh?

LIAM: That's a 20.

MATT: 20. They both turn and look towards you with
a curious glance. The strange, alien-looking one

gives a half-cocked grin and shakes his head. The
tiefling looks you over for a second. "Stranger, I

"mean you no offense, but--" And as he looks past
you at the rest of the group walking behind you.

"You know what, follow me."

MARISHA: Oh, shit.

TALIESIN: Well, here we go.

MATT: They both continue to walk in the direction
they're walking.

LIAM: They're together, right?

MATT: They're together, but they face away from
you. He's just, "Follow me." And they both

continue walking ahead of you guys.

LIAM: All right, so I trip along behind them, and then
I turn around and to the group I go--

TALIESIN: I'm all right with this. This is a great
way to die.

SAM: We're following along behind them.

LAURA, ASHLEY, TRAVIS, and MARISHA: Yes.

MARISHA: Can I do like an insight check, like size
up this tiefling from a distance and see what they

might be about, get any idea about what they might
do or be?

MATT: Go ahead and make an insight check from what
very little bit of body language you can see. It's

going to be very hard to read anything.

MARISHA: That's really bad. That's the Gil dice.
15.

MATT: 15? Unfortunately, at the distance that
he was from you, about 60 feet or so, and what

little bit time he was faced away-- his interaction
with Vax was so short, it's a blank slate. Nothing

you can read off of him.

LAURA: Are they looking and talking to each other
at all?

MATT: They're not talking to each other, they're
looking, facing away from you, and walking the

same pace they were. However, Vex, since you were
looking up in the sky, you do see, for a brief

instant, a large, avian-like entity--

LAURA: What does "avian" mean?

MATT: Bird-like.

LAURA: Oh, got it.

MATT: --but massive. And it looks to leave some
sort of flame-like trail behind it as it (fiery whooshing).

LIAM, LAURA, and MARISHA: (whispering) A phoenix!

ASHLEY: What!

LAURA: Harry Potter!

TRAVIS: Fawkes!

MATT: Make an intelligence check.

LAURA: Okay! Oh. Intelligence?

MATT: Yes.

LAURA: Ew. Eight?

MATT: Eight? Yeah, it's a flaming bird!

LAURA: That's a fucking bird, y'all!

MARISHA: So they have birdies.

SAM: So is it one of those-- what were they
called, Ashley?

LAURA: Ah! Natural 20 on the--

ASHLEY: Always.

MATT: Just don't do that because it doesn't
matter! All you're doing is killing yourself,

Laura!

LAURA: Every time.

MATT: All right, as you guys continue to follow
these two--

LIAM: Yeah, where are they leading me?

MATT: Do you guys keep the same distance? Do you
catch up with them, do you stay behind, what are

you doing?

SAM: How far back are we?

MATT: You're about 60 feet behind them.

SAM: Someone should--

LAURA: Get a little closer.

LIAM: I'm going to wave them away a little bit.

TRAVIS: I think we're cattle. I'm going to lag.
I'm going to drop another 20 feet back from the group.

MATT: Okay. As you drop back from them, you come
pretty close to the two efreeti that are following

you from behind, and one of them puts his hand out
and grabs you by the shoulder and pats you and

goes, "So friend, you are--? You are--?"

TRAVIS: What?

MATT: "Who are you?"

TRAVIS: I can't hear you.

SAM: Oh no!

TALIESIN and MARISHA: No.

MATT: Make a deception check.

TRAVIS: 17.

MATT: "Heh. I like this one. We'll keep him." And
he pats you on the shoulder and they both walk--

TRAVIS: Hey! And I smash the Titanstone Knuckles
together and I cast Enlarge.

MATT: Okay! You guys hear what sounds like a small
crack of thunder behind you (thunder crack sound).

As you glance over you can see Grog has swollen to
his enlarged size and is now walking shoulder to

shoulder with the two efreeti that began to flank
from behind. They both take a step back. "I double

"down on my statement. We keep him." And they keep
walking shoulder to shoulder to you. They're not

doing anything, they're walking shoulder to
shoulder.

MARISHA: I stop and turn around and wait for them
to catch up.

ASHLEY: Yeah.

SAM: Oh god. I hang back as well.

MATT: All right, so you guys, hanging back--

LAURA: I'm going to try to keep a little closer to
the two in the front and try to see if I can

overhear their conversation at all if they talk.

ASHLEY: I'm going to hang back until they come
up.

TALIESIN: I am not hanging back; I am right in the
middle. I'm trying to, like, be that middle point

that keeps everything connected.

LAURA: This is like when your friends start to
drink at the Ren Faire and you're like, should we

keep going forward, or what do we do, do we wait?

MARISHA: We'll meet you at the axe-throwing, just
go ahead.

LIAM, TALIESIN, and MARISHA: To the oubliette!

LIAM: Just put it all out on the table.

TRAVIS: So are they keeping pace with me, or are
they standing next to me?

MATT: They're keeping pace with you as you're
walking. You're walking shoulder to shoulder as

the rest of you begin to slow down and catch up
except for Vex, Vax, and Percy, who continue

forward. We have Pike, Keyleth, and Scanlan
beginning to catch up with Grog, and as you guys

eventually get to the point where you're walking
slow enough that the two efreeti catch up behind

you, they keep walking with you.

MARISHA: I light up my flame hand and I turn to
one of the efreeti and I go: Fist bump.

LAURA: Oh no.

MARISHA: Pound it, man. Pound it.

MATT: Make a persuasion check with disadvantage.

LAURA: Oh, it's at disadvantage. Come on,
Keyleth!

LIAM: Roll high, come on.

MARISHA: What did you want? Persuasion?

MATT: Persuasion.

MARISHA: Ten.

MATT: He looks at your fist and flicks it. It does
sting a little. It doesn't do any damage but the

flame goes out. In fact, it's strange. Normally
the flames would stay, but it's almost like he

willed the flame in your hand to extinguish.

LAURA: Oh shit.

ASHLEY: I have a question for one of you fine
gentlemen.

SAM: Oh boy, we're all getting in it.

MATT: The other one on the other side of Grog,
that wasn't interacting with Keyleth, grunts. "Hmph."

ASHLEY: Do you guys--?

SAM: (imitating efreeti) We're both women.

ASHLEY: Oh, I'm so sorry. Anyway. Do either of you
happen to know where the temple of Pelor is?

MATT: They both slowly look at each other and
grin. And slowly nod their heads.

ASHLEY: You do!

MATT: They turn back and one of them goes, "Yes,
we do, actually. Would you like us to take you there?"

ASHLEY: You can just show us where it is. I
think there's going to be a couple more spots

we're going to stop.

MATT: "You seem like you are not from around here.
It is dangerous to wander these streets unaccompanied."

ASHLEY: Well, I got this guy.

MATT: "This one?"

TRAVIS: Yeah! Hi!

MARISHA: Man, we've been here five minutes.

MATT: He extends a hand next to you, a very large
hand, and he says, "Come. I will carry you to your destination."

ASHLEY: I don't like to be carried. I don't like
to be made to feel smaller than I am, thank you.

MATT: "Then let us continue to walk. We will want
to take a left at the next big juncture." They

both keep walking alongside the two of you. While
this is happening, you guys are keeping behind and

glancing over your shoulder and seeing the rest of
your party slowly gather at the knees of these two

walking, haughty-looking djinn.

LIAM: (clears throat) Yeah, I was hoping for a
little bit of advice about town. This is starting

to feel a little kinky. Where are we going? I
don't need to talk that bad. Where are we going?

MATT: This is to the tiefling?

LIAM: Yeah.

MATT: The tiefling looks over his shoulder towards
you and goes, "We are going to-- (groans). All

"right, this just got very-- If you look ahead, one
alley, we are going to dart to the right. Follow, quickly."

LIAM: Follow you to talk right now?

MATT: "Yes!"

LAURA: Okay. I go.

MATT: So they begin taking up their pace a little
bit, quickening their walk, almost like a light jog.

LIAM: Okay.

MATT: Do you guys keep up?

LIAM: Yeah. What the fuck are we doing?

LAURA: I don't know, I don't fucking know!

MATT: Okay. You guys look ahead and you see the
other three members, the rest of your party,

beginning to get farther away from you at a faster
pace.

LAURA: So it's me and you. Are you coming? Are you
still in the middle?

TALIESIN: I'm keeping pace, but I'm trying to be
at the back end of it. What's happening?

LIAM: Percy, we're going to go in the alley up
ahead to the right.

LAURA: Dart to the right.

TALIESIN: Well, all right.

MARISHA: I'm going to keep pace with Grog.

SAM: I'm with them, yeah.

TRAVIS: (exclaims) Just trying to be even simpler
than I am. Maybe then they won't want me.

MARISHA: You're probably making it worse.

TRAVIS: Oh, no.

MATT: Okay. Following up at pace with them, you
get past a couple of small intersections and the

two figures dart off into this small alley, right
off to the side.

LAURA: I go.

LIAM: I'm going to stealth.

MATT: Stealth by going into the alley?

LIAM: Before going into the alley. I mean, I don't
know how dark this is.

MATT: What are you stealthing behind?

LIAM: Are we in broad daylight?

MATT: It's a pretty-- heh. I'm not going to say
it, but the sun is high in the sky.

LIAM: Yeah. Okay.

(laughter)

SAM: (McCree voice) It's full sunlight.

TALIESIN: (McCree voice) It's lunchtime.

LIAM: Okay, so no changing in lighting in the
smaller alley.

MATT: Correct.

SAM: (McCree voice) It's just turned to PM.

LAURA: The efreeti behind us, are they paying
attention to us, or are they completely distracted

by all of the--

MATT: It's hard to tell. They don't seem to be
paying any mind, and when the two figures darted

off in the alleyway, there was no--

LAURA: Anything?

LIAM: And how far away from the other group are we
at this point?

MATT: At this point, you're about 80 feet in front
of them.

LIAM: All right, I stop her and stop at the corner
and look around. Do I even see them if I look

around the corner?

MATT: The two figures that darted off?

LIAM: Yeah.

MATT: Yeah, they're about 15 feet back and they're
both waiting.

LIAM: We saw them dart to the right. I don't know
what's in there! I go running in with my eyes

closed. That's how I do.

MATT: Okay. Percy, do you follow suit?

TALIESIN: Oh, yeah, I follow suit, yeah. I'm
running in there.

MATT: Okay. The three of you dart in. You guys
watch as the three of them vanish into that alley.

MARISHA: Do the efreeti react to them vanishing?

MATT: No, but that's about two intersections
ahead. The ones immediately before you, the efreet

goes, "Turn left. To Pelor's temple."

TALIESIN: For god's sake, you two, tell them that
you have to meet your owner!

TRAVIS: Oh! Do it. Tell them that we've got to
meet our owner.

MATT: "Left to Pelor's temple, small one!" As you
guys are coming to the intersection--

ASHLEY: I'm so sorry, what did you say? Left at
where?

MATT: "Right here."

ASHLEY: We're supposed to meet out master at the
temple of Pelor, so--

MATT: "Then I am taking you. Take a left."

ASHLEY: I'm going to cast a Zone of Truth and ask
him some questions.

MATT: Well, hold on a second.

TALIESIN: Yeah!

ASHLEY: Is that a bad idea?

TALIESIN: There are no good ideas anymore.

MARISHA: It's all bad ideas in Dungeons & Dragons.
It's really true.

LIAM: Well, what I would have done was--

MARISHA: Sometimes you get lucky with a bad idea.

TALIESIN: That's all the game is is getting lucky
with bad ideas.

SAM: We're Cubs fans walking down Cleveland
Boulevard.

MATT: Well, as you begin casting your spell--
because casting a spell is a very physical thing--

you begin to whisper your various divine
incantations beneath your breath, and your holy

symbol of Sarenrae begins to glow, though
diminished this far from the Prime Material plane,

still effective. You get partway through your
incantation before the two efreeti who are

flanking grab Grog by the shoulders and forcefully
push, like a giant wedge, trying to shove your

entire group to the left down the street. You,
being at the immediate brunt of that, basically

are getting shoved in the shoulder and off to the
side. I need you to make a constitution saving

throw to see if you maintain concentration on the
spell.

ASHLEY: Okay, okay, okay.

MARISHA: You busting out the Hand Cone?

SAM: I'm busting out the Hand Cone, ready to go.

ASHLEY: Seven.

MATT: Okay, yeah, so as you're partway through the
incantation before it gets completely scattered

halfway through and the spell is lost. You still
used the spell slot, though.

ASHLEY: Okay.

MATT: But they're now using Grog as the base point
and all three of them are pushing you all to the

left forcefully. Scanlan, what are you doing?

SAM: Are these humanoids?

MATT: Nope.

SAM: Okay, I'm going to start singing. I pick one,
the stronger of the two, and I'm going to sing at

him. Or her, I don't even know.

MATT: You turn around and sing in their face.

SAM: Yeah, yep, singing at them. (singing) I make
you want to leave the one you're with, start a new

relationship with me. That's how it's going to be,
make you go--

TRAVIS: Usher! Usher from 1999!

SAM: A little Usher. I'm going to cast Dominate
Monster on it.

MATT: Oh shit, okay!

LAURA: Oh god. Do they know they're being
dominated?

SAM: Of course, but hopefully it'll give us a
getaway.

MATT: What's the DC on this?

SAM: Well, it's my spell, right? 21.

MATT: Jesus Christ, dude.

TALIESIN: That's the angriest thing I've ever
heard.

MATT: Fucking Scanlan. Let this be a lesson to all
DMs out there: be careful about creating magical

items that increase spell DC.

So that's a wisdom saving throw--

SAM: You can always break it or something.

MATT: Let's not break it, but be careful, be
mindful. All right, so, wisdom saving throw. Two

on that. All righty. The efreet that is on the
left side, the one that is directly behind you--

the other one that's pushing Pike off to the side
is separate-- the one that's behind you, as you

turn around and begin singing up to it, it stops
in its tracks and nods its head to the beat as

you're singing and its eyes half-close for a
second, and you get the assertion that the spell

has taken effect. The other ally is still pushing
Grog and Pike and basically scooping you guys into

this alleyway to the left.

ASHLEY: Can I cast Hold Person on that one? I
think I can do it on a humanoid.

LIAM, LAURA, and TRAVIS: But he's not a humanoid.

ASHLEY: He's not humanoid, never mind! That's what
you literally were just talking about.

SAM: Can I command him?

MARISHA: All right, am I standing by Scanlan? Are
they in front of us now?

MATT: No, they're behind you, basically you got
like shoved off at the point. Scanlan turned

around and did that as Pike's being shoved off to
the side. And Grog, they're both shoulder to

shoulder shoving you in that direction. So that
was your action.

SAM: I can't also command him to do anything?

MATT: Hmm?

SAM: Can't I command him to do something?

MATT: You can, I'm getting to that point. All of
this is happening simultaneously. As you're doing

that, singing in the face of that efreet, you just
got knocked out of your spell, so you're going to

have to take a moment to do that. Keyleth, Grog,
what are you doing?

TRAVIS: I'm going to trip and fall flat down onto
the ground.

MATT: Okay, so you (grunting) and intentionally
fall prone on the ground. All righty. Keyleth,

what are you doing? If anything.

MARISHA: Oh, I don't want to do something I'm
really bad at, which is talking to people. I have

ideas. Okay, is this what I want to do, I'm going
to do Alter Self and I'm going to change myself

into a tiefling?

MATT: Okay.

MARISHA: And then I-- oh god this is really
terrible, oh my god, I am really bad at

deception-- I'm going to turn around and say, I'm
sorry, there seems to be a miscommunication. These

are my slaves. They are already owned and my
property. Release them immediately.

MATT: Okay. So as Scanlan's in the middle of
singing a song, and the one efreet stops in their

tracks, you turn around and your form shifts. What
do you want your tiefling to look like?

MARISHA: You know, I don't have a lot to go off of
except for Zahra and that one that was in front of

us, so I'm going to do Zahra, like a red. You
know, a red, with like devilly horns, definitely

give it a tail. I want to look intimidating. I
want to look like you wouldn't want to meet me in

a back alley, but that's where we are.

ASHLEY: A bad bitch.

MARISHA: A bad bitch.

MATT and MARISHA: Bad bitch tiefling.

MATT: Which is still, like, an eighth as
intimidating as an efreet. But you whip around and

you say this, I'm going to have you go ahead and
make a deception check.

LAURA: Come on, Keyleth! You got it.

MARISHA: It's just a straight roll. Oh, god. Oh
Jesus Christ. Nine.

MATT: Okay, as you're talking up to the one on the
left, as Grog falls forward, he's looking off down

and he's going to reach for him as you shout in
his face. (scoffs) And palms you in the face with

his hand, and I need you to make a strength saving
throw.

MARISHA: A saving throw. Oh, that was almost so
good, that was almost great! 13.

MATT: 13. Basically his hand grabs you and, like,
his fingers close around the back of your head,

holding you like a ball, and lifts you a little
off the ground and throws you into the alley. So

as Keyleth gets chucked off to the side of the
alley, you're finishing getting pushed off.

Scanlan, what are you doing with your command over
the efreet?

SAM: I say to him: Hey sweet baby. Look at me.
It's all going to be okay if you yell at your

friend to let us go.

MATT: The efreet that you control turns around and
goes, "Hey! This is not our business. We need to

"let them go." The other efreet goes, "What are you
talking about? They're at our disposal!" He looks

back at the first one who goes, "It doesn't
matter. Let them go. Now." The other one looks

down at you and looks at the other one. That's
cocked. And glances down at you, Scanlan, and

goes, "What have you done to my friend?"

SAM: I say to him: I'm just a mere slave and--
kill him! Kill him now! Kill him right now!

(laughter)

LAURA and TALIESIN: Oh, no!

MATT: I need to make a-- actually, for Dominate--

LAURA: Get up and run, you guys. You better
fucking run away.

TRAVIS: Is anyone else in this alley?

MATT: Right now, from what you can see-- You can't
see anything, you're on the ground prone right

now. You're surrounded by everyone shouting at each
other at this moment. From what you can see,

nobody else is in this alleyway at the moment.

LAURA: It's crazy city, people fight all the
time.

ASHLEY: They're used to this, this is
everyday life.

LIAM: Yeah, there are fights on every corner.

MATT: Okay, yeah, so the efreet that you control,
who's still staring at the friend, looks at you as

you shout this, grins, and grabs the other efreet
by the throat and slams him into the wall.

MARISHA: Run!

MATT: You just go running?

(laughter)

MATT: Down the alleyway?

MARISHA: I want to go catch up with them!

MATT: So as it's holding the other efreet against
the wall, his thumbs pushing into his throat like

(choking), it's reaching up and grabbing the back
of the hands, its legs flailing as bits of smoke

and ash being cast off, Keyleth runs past, this
tiefling fucking running as fast as you can down

the alleyway. What are you guys doing?

TRAVIS: Can I pop up, grab Pike, and start running
after Keyleth?

MATT: Yeah, so you grab her by the back of the
armor and lift her up off the ground. Pike, you

start running, but all of a sudden your feet are
off the ground, you're running in the air, as Grog

is like bounding with you.

TRAVIS: And I'm hoping that as we get towards the
door I can shrink back down to go through any

doorway that they're headed towards.

LAURA: We're heading towards an alleyway.

MATT: There's an alleyway, is what you can see,
that Keyleth darts off into.

TRAVIS: Good deal.

MATT: Scanlan, what are you doing?

SAM: I am staying put until my friends are far
away. I'm watching them, watching them, back and forth.

MATT: Okay, you watch as the one efreet holding
his friend against the wall there is like

(strained grunt). The one that's being choked
goes, (choking) "What's this?" He reaches down and

pulls a blade out of the side and begins
jabbing it into the arm of the guy who's holding him.

ASHLEY and TALIESIN: Run. Run!

MATT: Which does six damage there, and he gets to
make a saving throw because he took damage. So

he's like, stabbing him in the arm repeatedly. The
other guy's like (grunting), still pushing into

his throat, and he takes him, lifts him up, and
slams him into the other wall, causing him to drop

the dagger in the other hand, and begins to push
him down towards the ground. You can see his eyes,

still intense, but controlled by the spell as he's
pushing the other efreet into the dark stonework

and you can see it cracking and breaking against
the force. The other efreet now is being held

against their-- (foreign language) and begins
chanting something beneath his breath.

SAM: Oh, shit. They do magic shit?

TALIESIN: Yes, they do.

SAM: I thought they were just big and scary.

TALIESIN: No.

MATT: So he's currently chanting under his breath
and you watch as the words begin to emit, his form

begins to shimmer and change.

SAM: How far have my allies gotten?

MATT: If you're glancing around the alleyway, at
this point in time, full pace, full round, you see

Grog and Pike have just now disappeared around the
corner of that alleyway.

SAM: And Keyleth is gone?

MATT: Keyleth is gone. She got there before they
did. Actually, you guys would have caught up

pretty fast because of Grog's speed. So Keyleth
would have gotten a head start and then Grog

bypassed her, so you just see Keyleth disappear behind
the corner of the alleyway.

TRAVIS: I'll snag Keyleth, too. I've got them
both.

SAM: All right. So my work here is done, so I'm
going to tip my beret, good day to you both, and

I'll Dimension Door into the alley with them or
wherever they went. Actually, I don't know that

alley, so I'm going to go in that direction the
number of feet I think it is.

MATT: Okay, so you'll be appearing at the mouth of
that alleyway and you can dart into it. I would

say go ahead and make a stealth roll to see if the
one who is currently casting even has a glance of

seeing you out of the corner of his eye.

SAM: Oh, wow! That's the best roll I've ever done.
21! Stealth!

MATT: Okay. At the moment as you disappear into
the door, you watch as the efreet that's being

choked, his form turns into reddish-white gas,
like a cloud of mist, and escapes the grip of his

friend, who then looks up and-- let's see here.
Okay, yeah, he's going to go ahead and angrily

look up and his legs turn into that burst of flame
and begin to rise up. And he begins clawing at the

gaseous cloud as you disappear and vanish, leaving
them both still fighting. You pull into the

alleyway and you guys are all there for a moment.
You see the rest of them further down the alleyway

now. You continue following them, I imagine?

SAM: Yeah.

LAURA: Do we need to hide?

MARISHA: Yeah, do these alleyways connect? Does it
block around?

MATT: The one that you were pushed into,
essentially as you were walking forward, is to the

left. You guys continued forward past two more
alleyways and then went to the second one to the

right that way and so this one continues down and
seems to curve around after about 100 feet or so

through a series of buildings that are built right
next to each other, giving you one pathway that

curves out of sight.

LAURA: Let's go as far away out of sight as we
can.

MATT: Okay, so you guys continue forward down that
alley. You hear in the distance the muffled sounds

of some sort of weird, echoey scuffle and it seems
to vanish into the rest of the atmospheric sound

of general wind being blown through tight passages
and the occasional flare of flame. You all turn

the corner as it begins to curve and suddenly
there's another splinter alleyway that descends

into stairs and, you guys following the two
humanoid individuals you originally followed,

continue down that path and they lead you into a
small, enclosed room. There's a door that's

partially ajar and they've shoved their way into
it and disappear inside. Do you follow?

LAURA: I think that's the option. Everybody's
running for their lives right now.

MATT: All right, so you guys all dart into this
same room. As you guys all charge into here--

SAM: We all die.

MATT: Yeah, it's filled with spikes and fire. As
you go charging into this room, immediately it's

much smaller that I think you all anticipated and
it would be Vex and Vax getting there first. You

guys charge into the room and your darkvision
helps you as you adjust to the change of light,

just in time for you to run into the two
individuals that had led you in there. This is

some sort of a storage room, filled with a series of
metallic boxes. And this room could comfortably

fit five people. And as soon as you charge, you
ram into their shoulder and before you can turn,

all of a sudden, you watch as Grog with two other
people comes slamming in and you've all very

tightly squeezed into this dark space.

LAURA: Sorry.

ASHLEY: I climb and sit on top of Grog.

MATT: As Scanlan comes around the corner--

SAM: Right in behind Grog's butt. Just smooshed on
up.

MATT: And you do. Sweaty cheek. Reverse motorboat.
It's a terrible thing.

LIAM: Is it tight enough that the two strangers
are smooshed in as badly as we are?

MATT: Yeah, they're like, (strained) "Okay--
please-- "

MARISHA: Is this dark?

MATT: It's dark. There's no light in here, yeah.

MARISHA: I lift my hand and I light it up to give
us a little bit of light.

TRAVIS: Could we close the door?

TALIESIN: Scanlan, close the door!

SAM: (muffled) Why are we in here?

TRAVIS: Are there any windows or anything?

MATT: No, there's just the door you guys entered.
It's a storage shed.

LIAM: This is a little more than I think I was
asking for, but what is there to see in the City

of Brass?

MATT: You're asking this right now? He looks at
you. "You're asking this right now?"

LIAM: So we're out of sorts. We're not from here,
obviously.

LAURA: Hi.

LIAM: Hi. That's my sister. You can tell because
she looks just like me.

MARISHA: Aw, Grog.

TRAVIS: It was Pike!

ASHLEY: That's not true.

MARISHA: It's a very small room!

LIAM: You don't look like many of the larger
folk-- thank you, dear-- that we've seen around

here either. Are you from here? Are you strangers
here?

LAURA: How are you not slaves right now?

LIAM: That.

MATT: Let me change this to a bit of a calmer
circumstance, here-- the tiefling says, "Shh!"

LAURA: Sorry.

MATT: "Shh! Close the door!" And it is like--

LAURA: Can I climb up on one of the boxes to give
more foot room?

MATT: As you all inhale, the door finally closes.
Vex climbs up. A minute of quiet passes.

Eventually, as silence passes for a bit, you hear
a voice, a very soft and gentle voice that you

haven't heard yet, break the darkness. He goes, "I
think it's safe to speak now." The lithe-looking

individual you saw earlier with the wiry red hair
and the somewhat reddish-black eyes says, "Well,

"it was uncommon to see individuals wandering this
city with a look of absolute victimization."

SAM: (muffled) We don't look that bad, do we?

LAURA: I pick up Scanlan and put him up on a box.

LIAM: Those aren't pillows!

SAM: I don't think Grog wears underpants!

TRAVIS: Who does?

MATT: "I'm Senokir. This is Uten, my business
partner. We are jewelers here in the City of

"Brass. And if I'm not mistaken, you now owe us a
favor."

LIAM: Maybe we could do a bit of business.
Percival, you were looking for a jeweler, right?

TALIESIN: Well, it's a little far away at the
moment, but we could do a bit of business because

we have other business to attend to.

MARISHA: What caught your attention on us, aside
from the utter look of pathetic-ness?

MATT: "Favors are more useful when you're not in
chains."

LAURA: Yes, this is true.

MATT: "So. Let us wait here about ten, 15 more
moments. Let any immediate chance of you running

"into those thugs pass. We'll have a more private
conversation at our place of business, if you

"don't mind."

LAURA: Why do you wear those white robes? Do they
signify anything?

MATT: "They signify our freedom."

MARISHA: Were you once in chains?

MATT: "Few that come here manage to escape that
fate immediately. We found our way."

MARISHA: That's ominous. Can I do an insight
check? Does that mean he murdered a lot of

fricking people?

MATT: Make an insight check.

MARISHA: Let's go druid dice. Oh god. Ooh, it's an
18! What was it, insight? Right? 29.

LAURA: Whoa, you've got really high insight.

TALIESIN: She know shit.

SAM: Whispers! Loot Crate, everybody! Loot Crate
is a wonderful sponsor, a fine, handsome company.

LAURA: Magic!

SAM: Their theme is magic. You'll get a box of
magic shit.

TALIESIN: Doctor Strange is part of this one.

LAURA: And I think Magical Beasts.

SAM: These are movies that I will never see,
because I have children.

TALIESIN: In about 15 years, we're going to sit
down and show you everything. It's going to be great.

MARISHA: Which one was the tiefling, and which one
was him?

MATT: The one that's been speaking to you is the
other humanoid of strange racial origin.

MARISHA: Senokir is the humanoid?

MATT: Yeah, Senokir is the humanoid.

MARISHA: Who is, something's off about him?

MATT: Something's different. You don't recognize
his race or background.

MARISHA: Uten, how long have the two of you been
in business together?

MATT: "Shh, let us wait. We will continue this
conversation at our establishment."

LAURA: Is this your room?

MATT: "No."

LAURA: Whose room is it?

MATT: "I have no idea. Which is why we shouldn't
stay long."

ASHLEY: Do you know where those thugs were trying
to take us? Or have an idea?

MATT: "I have no idea, but I imagine they would
have called in some friends to meet you and you

"would have found yourselves in a very tough
position."

LIAM: All right, it's really starting to smell
like Grog in here, so why don't we go--

MATT: "A few more moments, please."

TRAVIS: It was really hard not to fight, man. I do
terrible when I don't fight.

MATT: "Shh." You wait in awkward silence for the
next five minutes, with any sort of sound,

utterance, or conversation being immediately
shushed by Senokir. Eventually--

ASHLEY: (fart sound)

MATT: --Senokir perks up and the slightly pointed
ears of his form seem to almost twitch. "I think

"passage is safe. Very well, open the door. Follow
us, please." As you guys filter out, they

continue, a quick pace, and lead you through a
series of winding side streets and momentary

pauses to pass as a number of other creatures and
individuals walk by. Passing efreeti, passing

occasionally some sort of giant, winged, red
creature that stalks down the street, dragging

behind it a large cart that has bars in it. You
can see a number of smaller, almost, I wouldn't

say fey-type creatures, but things that are
definitely not of this realm, that are all bound

by neck irons. You do also see a few small
families wander through, laughing, that appear to

be humanoid, but once again their physicality is
very similar to the individual Senokir.

Eventually, you are led back to a simple exterior.
It's a back entrance, leading away from this main

street. They both enter to this iron doorway.
Senokir pulls something from a pocket and glances

at the rest of you. He pricks his finger and
places it to the edge of this object, some sort of

a disk, and it has a small point on one end that
he uses to prick his finger. Once he's smeared his

blood on the disk, he presses it against the door,
and the iron door opens up a little bit. Places it

in his pocket. "Come inside, so we may speak,
please."

TALIESIN and LIAM: All right.

LAURA: I want to look in his eyes as we are about
to go through and see if-- how honest he looks.

MATT: Make an insight check.

LIAM: I mean, everybody in this city wants us as
slaves, so it's not really any more dangerous in

there than it is--

SAM: Kind of flattering, really.

LAURA: 21.

SAM: It's like one of those beefcake slave
auctions for charity.

MATT: Glancing at him, he's a very hard individual
to read. He has this awkward, stilted

conversational cadence to his way of speaking, and
whenever he speaks to you, he's not quite looking

at you.

LAURA: Hey, my eyes are down--

MATT: He doesn't seem dishonest, just hard to
read.

LAURA: All right. I like your hair. And I walk
in.

MATT: Okay. As you guys enter, these wall sconces
begin to come to life on their own across the

walls. On the inside, you can see this gorgeous
workspace for all sorts of small-level metallurgy

and metalcraft. Percy, you really appreciate this.
You see small furnaces and a number of metals laid

out in ingots, some used in different volumes.
Many substances and things that you've never seen

before. A couple of small boxes to the side of
rough, uncut gems, currently at this distance--

TALIESIN: My word.

LAURA: I walk up and smack Percy on the ass and
say, "Feel like making a home here?" and walk past him.

TALIESIN: I'm certainly thinking of some plans.

MATT: As the door closes behind and the two
individuals walk in, they rummage around and begin

finding some small stools and arrange them so they
can present to you more like, treat you like a

guest. He sets them down. "Please, sit, and we
shall speak."

TRAVIS: Okay!

LAURA: How long does Locate Object take to cast?

SAM: Well, that's not something you would ask
him. I think he's just our host here.

MATT: "I have no idea these words you speak." All
right, Locate Object. Locate Object is one action,

so it takes six seconds to cast.

LAURA: Can I try to cast it as we sit down and see
if it's in our vicinity?

SAM: You can cast that shit all the time?

TALIESIN: How often can you cast it?

LAURA: Well, it's a 2nd-level spell, so I can do
it a bit.

MATT: So as everyone's sitting on your stools and
getting ready, you close your eyes for a second,

concentrate, mutter beneath your breath. You
extend your understanding in this dark space

around you, waiting for the warmth of any sort of
call to the Dawnmartyr Plate. Eventually your

mental expansion reaches the limitations of the
spell, with nothing coming back.

LAURA: Tight, tight, tight.

MATT: As you've all sat down and assembled,
Senokir sits as well, hands crossed very

pleasantly in front of him. Very up straight,
strange head cocked a little to the side. "So

"you've found yourselves here, out of place, and
we've helped you once. We will discuss the terms

"of our repayment for our aid. But before then, I
must ask why you would come here so unprepared."

MARISHA: So unprepared? Does the name Thordak ring
a bell? The Cinder King? It's a pseudonym, maybe?

MATT: "I have heard this name."

SAM: Alias.

LAURA: Did he hang out around here?

MATT: "No. He stayed mostly over the Sea of
Fire."

LAURA: Hmm. Anywho!

SAM: What about that Plate of--? No? Maybe? I
mean, I don't know, what are we here for?

MATT: "What are you here for?"

MARISHA: Thordak has escaped into our realm--

MATT: "Good. Keep him away from here."

MARISHA: All right, that's what we want as well.

LIAM: You have a distaste for the wyrm?

MATT: "No, I just don't trust dragons."

TALIESIN: He's currently still linked to this
realm.

MATT: "Hmm."

TALIESIN: We are trying to take care of as much of
it as humanly possible.

MATT: "Heh. Humanly."

TALIESIN: As much as humanly possible. Perhaps a
little bit more. We are here for the little bit

more. We seek powers to help us defeat the
dragon.

MATT: "Perhaps I can be of aid. What powers do you
seek?"

LAURA: What powers can you do?

MATT: "I asked my question first."

SAM: So creepy!

TALIESIN: Perhaps it is time to lay it on the
line. Time is of the essence.

LIAM: Sure, go for it.

TALIESIN: Let's make a deal.

LIAM: If this goes south, we can just wrap it up.

TALIESIN: We seek a set of plate armor.

LAURA: A trinket, really. Nothing huge. Somebody
won it in a game of poker, I believe? Cards?

SAM: A card game of some sort.

TALIESIN: The Plate of the Dawnmartyr.

MARISHA: It used to belong to the Suutan
Bloodline.

MATT: "Suutan, now that I am aware of."

MARISHA: Yes?

MATT: "Does it still belong in the possession of
this Suutan?"

LAURA: I don't think so.

SAM: Our information says it does not.

MARISHA: It was won by a fire giant.

MATT: "A fire giant within this city?"

TALIESIN: That is our belief.

SAM: Are there any fire giants in this city?

MATT: "That narrows it down. There are only three
that live here--"

SAM: Oh, well that's great!

MATT: "--not under subjugation."

SAM: Happen to have their names?

LAURA: Do people under subjugation own a lot?"

MATT: "Generally, no. Those that own them, own
what they own. So maybe it's one of them. We can

"go ask."

SAM: Are they close?

MATT: "Relatively. Depending on which one you ask
first."

SAM: You could just give us their addresses or
something and we could go check it out. If you had a

Thomas Guide--?

LAURA: Where's Uten? What's Uten doing?

MATT: Uten is sitting back, arms crossed.

LAURA: He seems totally chill? This is the way
this dude talks all the fucking time?

(laughing)

MATT: Completely unfazed.

TALIESIN: Depending on how things go, we may even
speak of perhaps commissioning some pieces. Your

work is astounding.

MATT: He suddenly leans forward, steps up from the
stool, and walks over to you and begins to look

very closely over your clothing. "Can you afford
what I make?"

TALIESIN: Possibly. I would like to think so.
Depending on how the next few weeks go, there will

be much to celebrate, and your work is
celebratory.

LAURA: Do you require monetary compensation, or is
it something more?

MATT: "Depends. I have plenty of money, but you
owe me, and if I help you find this giant and this

"armor you're seeking, you will owe me even more.
So. To keep this interesting, how about we go find

"this armor?"

LIAM: You don't even want to hint at what you're
looking for?

MATT: "Where's the fun in that?"

LIAM: You cheeky bastard, Matthew Mercer.

MATT: "So. To the giant?"

LAURA: Should we make ourselves not look like us?
Should we maybe look like something different?

TRAVIS: Yeah, how will you keep us from being
harassed in the streets?

MATT: "Well, I mean no disrespect, but--" He lifts
his hand and snaps the fingers. You watch as Uten

goes, "Oh, right, sorry. I got you." He goes
rummaging through a case and you hear what sounds

like the dragging and clanging of many pieces of
small metal. Procures a series of chains and neck

irons. Senokir looks up. "There's not much else I
have to offer but, for the most part, you won't be

"bothered."

ASHLEY: Oh, you love it.

TALIESIN: Let me put forward a theory for you.

TRAVIS: You son of a bitch.

TALIESIN: I hate those eyes. I can't look at them.
I hate you. Whatever deal we make with you here,

for the record, none of us will be staying. We may
be coming back to fulfill some service, we may be

coming back to fulfill some favor, and we will if
that is the deal we make.

MATT: "If that is the deal we make."

TALIESIN: But the deal we make will not include
any of us. Is that understood? Is that agreeable?

SAM: Unless it's for a one-time sexual favor of
some sort.

TALIESIN: Only with him.

LAURA: In which case, take your pick.

SAM: I'm up for that.

TRAVIS: I'm up, too.

TALIESIN: Oh my god, you people.

MATT: "I think you will find our arrangements
agreeable."

TALIESIN: And I may have some things to excite you
with, as well. Stop it! I know you've been doing

it all game!

ASHLEY: That was me.

MARISHA: He said in accent.

MATT: "It seems we've found some semblance of an
accord for the time. Come, place these gently upon

"yourselves and we'll be on our way."

LAURA: Don't you have any white robes you can give
us instead?

MATT: "I'm sorry, no. Those come with station, and
station requires recognition. None will recognize

"you here. You'll be found out immediately."

SAM: Should we chain ourselves to each other, or
to you? How does this work?

LAURA: Check out those chains and see if they're
magic?

MARISHA: A few of us could look like you, to keep
all of us out of chains? Maybe a few exceptions?

LAURA: You can get big and then look like an
efreeti?

MARISHA: I can look like one of them. Very simply.
I think we'd all feel a little bit comfortable if

some of us were free.

MATT: "Sure. If you are confident."

MARISHA: I study him and I change to like a--

LAURA: Maybe somebody that is better at talking?

MARISHA: I don't have to talk, I just have to look
like someone else. That's not that hard.

TALIESIN: Oh for god's sakes.

SAM: I'm going to go look at the chains and arcana
check them.

MATT: Go for it.

MARISHA: I change myself to look like one of him.
I'm like, eh? Eh? Passable?

SAM: Oh, 22! No, just 20.

MATT: Just 20? The chains appear to be mundane.
They are heavy, they are thick, they are

definitely functional, but they are not
enchanted.

SAM: I'm going to slap some on.

LIAM: I'm going to slip on my ring of invisibility
and spend the next 20 minutes attuning to it.

MATT: He looks you over. "Impressive. I think you
will get no concern from myself when the other

"genasi cross your way."

MARISHA: (slowly) Do all of you talk like this? Do
I also need to talk like this?

MATT: "I don't know what you mean."

MARISHA: Never mind.

TRAVIS: I go put the chains on, as well.

TALIESIN: I put the chains on.

LAURA: I want to put them on, but I don't want to
click them. I want to hang them and make them look

like they're attached, but I don't want to attach
them.

MATT: Okay, make a sleight of hand check.

SAM: They fall to the floor!

ASHLEY: Are they wrist or--

MATT: There's one for each wrist and then a neck
iron.

LAURA: 11?

SAM: I'm familiar with these because I have a set
in my room.

MATT: Of course you do. The idea is, your hands
are chained, and the chains attack to the neck

iron about there, so you don't have a whole lot of
arm movement, and then the neck iron has a chain

from the back that is held. And actually, Uten
begins to gather all the chains at the very back

and runs them to a singular ring, which is held by
him.

ASHLEY: Can I put on, if I put on my Glove of
Storing, does that mean I have to take off one of

the gauntlets?

MATT: Glove of Storing, yeah. You wouldn't be able
to have both attuned because they're both on the hand.

ASHLEY: Can I wear one?

MATT: No, sorry.

TALIESIN: Just for insanity's sake, before I slip
them on, I'm going to take a little bit of

gunpowder out of my pouch and sprinkle a little
bit in the locks and have some on my hands.

LAURA: You're going to blow your little hands
off.

TALIESIN: Oh, it's going to be awful.

MATT: (Victor voice) "Learn from my mistakes!"

TALIESIN: Not enough to blow a hand off, but yes.

MATT: Okay. Vex, you manage to get them clicked
on, and as soon as you feel confident, they go

(clank) and hang open.

LAURA: Oh. I must have not attached them quite
right.

SAM: Do you want me to do it for you?

LAURA: Oh, no, that's okay.

TRAVIS: Please?

MATT: As all of the chains are attached, some time
has passed. You've attuned to your ring. What have

you un-attuned to?

LIAM: My boots have gone slack.

MATT: So you have the ring on. You're maintaining
your altered appearance. Uten takes all the chains

and clinks them onto the one ring. Gives it a tug,
just to check, and you all feel the tug from

behind. "Very well. It seems we are prepared.
Come, now, let us all go speak with Whaska."

LIAM: He didn't chain me, though, right? Am I
chained? There's no invisible floating chain?

MATT: No, he doesn't seem like he's intent on
chaining all of you. He just chained those that

couldn't pass.

SAM: Whaska the giant. Whaska the giant, right?

MATT: "Yes."

LIAM: Is Vex chained?

LAURA: I am.

LIAM: I tweak her nose and give her a wet willy,
and then dart six feet back.

LAURA: You fucking dick!

MATT: (chuckles)

(laughter)

MATT: "Now come! Uten, come." And he walks out the
front door, this time. As you guys are led through

the two front doors, as they open, as Senokir
pushes them, you see this wonderful thoroughfare

in front with a giant fountain that has this
molten rock, this lava fountain, that pours out

into this large, open pit that descends into
darkness below. You see these giant, black,

obelisk-like pillars that jut out in the center,
and probably about two dozen entities from all

walks of life walking through and having
conversations and talking, many of which having

their own chained slaves at their side. This
appears to be one of many central social civil

places within the City of Brass. And that's where
we'll end tonight's session.

TRAVIS: Did the people that have the people in
chains, are they wearing the white robes and stuff?

MATT: Different outfits. It appears that it isn't
like, the white robes signify that a person is

free. Just for these two, it's a level of station,
it seems, in the way they've described it.

SAM: Had we stopped in one more minute, I would
have had to take off this shirt, revealing nothing

underneath.

MATT: Shit!

TALIESIN: Not even his bare chest, just nothing.
The void.

SAM: Lava pouring in.

LIAM: We'll grab Ashley, run into the fire plane,
the armor will be right there, for her visit, and

then it'll be done! One shot.

MATT: You're not filming next Thursday, are you?

ASHLEY: I hope not. That's the first day of that
next episode, so I don't have the schedule yet.

MATT: Let me know. If you're not scheduled, we'll
try and Skype you in, because I would still like

you to continue this.

ASHLEY: I will. I'll have to Skype, but--

MATT: That's fine. Just having you here.

TRAVIS: Good to have you back, man!

LIAM: It's better when you're here!

ASHLEY: Oh, well, okay!

SAM: It's really better when you here. It's not
good when you're not here. In fact, don't watch

when she's not here.

ASHLEY: I felt like, maybe to everybody watching,
but I didn't feel like we were playing that long.

So you ended the game and I was like, "No! What?
We just-- oh."

MATT: It's been four hours! I know. Well, guys,
thank you for watching. I hope you had fun, as we

do, in this insanity.

ASHLEY: I love this character so much.

TALIESIN: He's my new favorite. The week after
Halloween? The week after?

MATT: That's just how it worked out, guys!

TALIESIN: I'll never see Victor again. I have a
new best friend.

MATT: Guys, you're awesome. You're awesome. I'm
going to go home and sleep. Thank you, Loot Crate,

once again. Thank you to all you amazing Critters
in your amazing Halloween costumes. Still blown

away by all of that. Have a wonderful night, and
is it Thursday yet? See you next week.

[music]