MATT: And welcome to tonight's episode of Critical
Role, where a bunch of us nerdy-ass voice actors

sit around and play Dungeons & Dragons. Tonight's
gonna be a fun one. But before we jump into it--

LIAM: What does that mean? What does that mean?

MATT: I don't know. We ended on an interesting
note.

MARISHA: I think I just peed a little.

MATT: Yeah.

TRAVIS: Do y'all hear that heartbeat in your
ears?

MATT: It's weird.

MARISHA: Yeah.

MATT: (heartbeat noise) But before we get to that,
let's go ahead and get to our opening

announcements. First and foremost, our glorious
returning sponsor for the evening,

our friends at Loot Crate!

ALL: Loot Crate!

MATT: Fantastic, awesome people. Sam, is there
something you want to talk about?

SAM: Yeah. You know, a lot of my Loot Crate plugs
have been comedic, or cute.

Some would say clever.

TALIESIN: Debatable.

TRAVIS: I don't know if I'd go that far.

SAM: But one thing that has been lacking is a
sense of spectacle. Of human achievement. Of

record breaking. So tonight I'm going to attempt
something that's never been attempted before. I'm

going to do the Loot Crate copy read here. While
drinking an entire Coca-Cola.

LIAM: Oh no.

SAM: And a bite-sized 100 Grand bar, Snickers bar,
Milky Way, Twix, another bite-sized Snickers bar,

a Reese's Peanut Butter Cup, and a packet of Big
League Chew.

TRAVIS: Yes!

LIAM: Oh no.

LAURA: What? You're going to vomit.

SAM: In two minutes.

LAURA: You're going to vomit, Sam.

SAM: Also, all this stuff melted in my car.

LIAM: Notice he's got a towel down.

MARISHA: That's actually really gross-looking.

LAURA: Oh god! He does have a towel down.

TALIESIN: This looks unhappy.

SAM: All right. Travis?

TRAVIS: Yeah yeah.

SAM: You got the clock ready?

TRAVIS: Yeah.

SAM: Two minutes, can it be done? The answer is
no. (laughs) Ready?

TRAVIS: Three, two, one.

SAM: Loot Crate is a curated collection of awesome
items from the best pop culture franchises

delivered to your door every month. You get the
best and most exclusive licensed figures,

t-shirts, home goods, and more.

LAURA: Oh no.

TRAVIS: You're doing good. You're doing good.

LIAM: My god.

LAURA: He's going to spew.

MARISHA: At least it's a Mexico--

TRAVIS: No, no, don't help him.

TALIESIN: Let it happen! Let it happen!

SAM: Don't help me!

MARISHA: No, we're good. It's better. It's
better.

SAM: This week's crate theme is Primal. Featuring
awesome swag from X-Men, Overwatch and Predator.

TRAVIS: 30 seconds.

SAM: Give yourself every month or give the gift of
geeking out to a friend or loved one. And if you

visit lootcrate.com/criticalrole and use the
coupon code 'criticalrole', you'll get 10% off

your Loot Crate monthly geek crate.

LAURA: Don't do it!

TALIESIN: Big League Chew! No god!

SAM: From collectibles [inaudible]. It's like
Comic-Con in a box!

TRAVIS: One minute.

SAM: Oh boy! How do I separate the gum from the
other stuff? Loot Crate, Loot Crate DX, Loot

Gaming, and Loot Anime. How do you want to do
this?

LAURA: Did you do it? Did he just do it?

TALIESIN: No, no, no.

MATT: He's still got more Coke.

TRAVIS: The Coke's gotta go.

TALIESIN: Gotta go!

SAM: It can't get in.

TRAVIS: 30 seconds left! 30 seconds left! Work it.
Work! Relax the throat.

SAM: Hold on. Not good.

LAURA: He's going to kill himself.

MARISHA: Don't choke.

SAM: Half left?!

TRAVIS: 15 seconds.

LAURA: Sam, get that shit out of your mouth. I'm
going to throw up.

SAM: I can't do it! I can't do it!

TALIESIN: Don't look!

MATT: 11!

TRAVIS: Ten! Nine! Eight! Seven! Six! Five! Don't
stop fighting for it!

TALIESIN: No matter what, we're going to think
less of you, it doesn't matter anymore.

TRAVIS: Three! Two! One!

LIAM: Happy new year!

TRAVIS: That's it! That's it! That's it! Oh my
god, that's it.

TALIESIN: You get a participation ribbon. Well
done.

LAURA: That was so fucking gross. Samuel!

TRAVIS: Do we have an ambulance on standby?

TALIESIN: Five years from now, your children will
be able to Google this.

I'm just going to remind you.

MATT: If there was ever a moment in our show that
will be giffed and show up on GIPHY, that's it

right there. Thank you, Sam. And thank you, Loot
Crate, for your fantastic sponsorship.

LIAM: I feel like we just passed into performance
art, there.

MATT: Yeah.

SAM: Don't forget to use the code 'criticalrole'
for 10% off your Loot Crate monthly geek crate.

TRAVIS: That entire tooth is brown.

LAURA: I'm just going to throw up.

TRAVIS: Your teeth are all brown!

LAURA: It's so gross.

MATT: I feel like that's an opening act to Gaga's
next tour.

LIAM: Listen, real art makes you uncomfortable and
challenges you.

TRAVIS: The Super Bowl was missing that.

MATT: Consider us challenged and uncomfortable.

MARISHA: That made my eyes water and not in a good
way.

TRAVIS: There's a part of the back of my head
that's cramped.

MATT: Thank you Sam.

TALIESIN: I'm no longer thinking about the game.
Well done. Yeah,

not even thinking a little bit about the game.

MATT: All right.

SAM: I'll take care of this.

TALIESIN: Just roll it up and burn it.

MARISHA: Do you wanna handle that?

TALIESIN: You gonna finish that Coke?

SAM: Oh, yeah.

MATT: It's the only way to be sure. All right, so
last week we mentioned this, I wanna tell you guys

again: thanks to Qualcomm, Lionsgate, and their
new VR experience, and the new upcoming Power

Rangers movie, our friends at Nerdist are doing a
circumstance where you can win a paid trip to LA

to attend the movie premiere of Power Rangers as
well as Google Pixel phones and Daydream headsets.

It only has one more day, and they wanted to make
sure we would let you guys know this for the last

day they have going, so be sure to go to
nerdist.com/powerrangersgiveaway to learn more

about this and enter to win if this sounds like an
awesome thing to you. If one of you guys wins,

that's great, 'cause then we have just more and
more of our community winning everything, which is

kind of our long-term plan, so.

TRAVIS: Yes!

MATT: Check it out.

TRAVIS: Take over the world!

MATT: Next up. Merch. Laura, do we have any
updates on that?

LAURA: (muffled) Aw man, I put food in my mouth!

TRAVIS: What the fuck are you thinking? What're
you thinking?

MATT: Quick, drink the Coke! Ten, nine, eight,
seven--

MARISHA: I have one while she swallows.

SAM: (belches)

MATT: Oh, god!

TRAVIS: The distance on that was incredible.

MATT: My hair went (whoosh).

LIAM: Hold on, Marisha. Are you okay?

MARISHA: Yeah, I'm concerned.

LIAM: Are you okay?

SAM: I'm fine.

TALIESIN: Why are we not talking about this?

MARISHA: That sounded like something that happens
when you're diseased.

TRAVIS: Yeah, I could feel your glycogen spike
from over here.

MATT: Marisha, you were saying?

MARISHA: This Saturday, it's the two-year
anniversary of the twitch stream.

(all cheer)

TALIESIN: My, how time flies.

MARISHA: Yes, isn't that nice? And pleasant? And
not disgusting-looking? It's a 24-hour twitch

stream. There's gonna be a lot going on. There's
gonna be Gather Your Party, AXYB special, there's

gonna be Game the Game, and we're going to--

TALIESIN: Breaded Men?

MARISHA: Bearded Men, not Breaded Men.

TALIESIN: Oh, I saw Breaded Men, I was very
excited.

MARISHA: No, Bearded Men. And we are going to be
playing Mansions of Madness, some of us, here.

Like around one o'clock.

MATT: And the charity stream is benefiting 826LA.

MARISHA: Yeah. Yes. And the whole thing is gonna
be charity-related, it's all gonna go to 826LA.

MATT: Our friends there since the beginning.

MARISHA: Yeah.

MATT: So looking forward to that.

MARISHA: Yeah, so donate, we're gonna be taking
donations, it's gonna be great.

MATT: Exactly. And tomorrow at noon Pacific Time,
me and Darren De Paul are gonna be guesting on

Eric's TBD RPG, the Doctor Who RPG, from noon to
3PM tomorrow Pacific, and then--

OFF-SCREEN: High noon?

(all groan)

MATT: And.

(all laugh)

LIAM: Put him in the game so you can kill him.

MATT: Okay, that's a good call. And it looks like
we'll also be continuing that game on Saturday

before the Mansions of Madness stream, from 11-1.
So I'll be here for five hours. Again. On

Saturday. But it's gonna be a lot of fun, looking
forward to it, I'm excited to go guest on there

and play for a little bit, so hopefully see you
guys tomorrow and Saturday.

Let's see. Laura, now that you're--

LAURA: Oh, hey!

MATT: Hi.

LAURA: How's it going, guys?

MATT: Good, how're you doing?

LAURA: We have a-- don't you touch my donuts. We
have all of the normal, wonderful stuff still

available in the store. The stuff that's out of
stock, actually, has been removed so that you

don't get confused when you're looking for things.
So we have our Gilmore shirt, we got our Strongjaw

shirt, we got a 'How do you want to do this'
shirt, with the hoodie. We got baseball caps, we

got patches, we got vinyl stickers, which I am
still a really big fan of. They go on windshields,

Macbooks, whatever you want.

TRAVIS: Pets.

LAURA: Pets! Not recommended.

TRAVIS: Really?

LAURA: So yeah, check it out if you wanna wear
your Critical Role goodies.

LIAM: You're like an Italian grandmother in
Hoboken, New Jersey right now.

LAURA: Ey!

TRAVIS: Bada-bing!

LAURA: Bada-bing, bada-boom, there you go.

MATT: Moving on. The new Signal Boost came out,
with Jason Charles Miller as the host, our friend

who played Garthok for his temporary run during
the initial Conclave attack.

TRAVIS: He is part of the Clasp.

MATT: Yes. And he is--

MARISHA: And he did our theme music.

MATT: He did our theme music for the show, here,
he's a very talented musician. And a good friend

of the show. And you can see his new run on Signal
Boost this week. New GM Tips is out today. My

second-to-last on the run at this time. This
episode is more for the players, and deals with

creating and running characters that are against
the normal tropes and the type that people

generally fall into when creating a new character
in an RPG. So go check it out,

see if any of it seems to resonate.

TALIESIN: This is how he criticizes us now, is he
makes a little web video and sends it to all of us

instead of talking to us.

MARISHA: Yeah, it's very passive aggressive.

MATT: Took you a while to figure it out, Taliesin.
But I'm glad you finally did.

TALIESIN: I'm feeling it.

MATT: Also, Wednesday Club, Taliesin?

TALIESIN: Yes, it turns out I have to record voice
over on occasion, so Wednesday Club is not going

to be me this week and I'll be talking to comic
books to the engineer who will be mildly irritated

with me. But instead, you guys, Matt Key is going
to be hosting and he is going to talk about

his favorite thing in the world.

MATT: Doctor Strange.

MARISHA: Doctor Strange.

TALIESIN: -- his wife, and Doctor Strange, but
that's cool, too. Because him and his wife.

MARISHA: Oh yeah, oh yeah, and his wife. And
Doctor Strange.

TALIESIN: And Doctor Strange, his work wife.

MARISHA: Yeah.

TALIESIN: It's great and fun.

MATT: Also, don't forget we have Talks Machina
live on Tuesday nights.

(all cheer)

MATT: 7PM here on Twitch and Alpha, hosted by our
fantastic Brian Foster. So check us out next week

to discuss this episode when it comes up. Last two
things: one, we mentioned it on Talks Machina, but

one of our fantastic crew members, Amandine, who's
currently trying to legally find a way to stay in

this country, currently put up a Fundly, the fun
folks here, part of the cast and community put

together a Fundly, fundly.com/we-love-amandine/ to
raise money to help with her legal costs and try

keep her here and working with us. The community
has already been incredible. If you have any

interest in help and support that, I recommend go
check it out and give what little that you can

because it all helps. And last but not least we
got a gift today in the mail from a fantastic

critter named Chris Capola who as part of an
anniversary present for me and Marisha built a

treasure chest. Like from scratch, like cut down
the tree, trimmed, lathed...

built a treasure chest.

LAURA: It's amazing.

TRAVIS: That's man-made wood right there.

LAURA: We thought it was for all of us but then we
realized it was just for Matt and Marisha.

LIAM: It's physically beautiful but just the
process we saw outlined is--

LAURA: Phenomenal.

LIAM: Beautiful, beautiful gift.

MATT: So Chris, thank you, tremendously, from all
of us, but mostly me and Marisha.

(all laugh)

LIAM: I'm going to take a dump in that box, at
your house, the first opportunity I get.

(all laugh)

LAURA: No!

MATT: That is absolutely brilliant, and undeserved
and very happy to find a very wonderful place in

our home to fill it with awesome nerdy shit. Thank you
guys. All right, I think that's the end of our

announcements. That being the case.

ALL: No, no, no, no!

MATT: Let's jump in--

TRAVIS: Let's do it.

MATT: -- to tonight's episode--

ALL: No, no, no, no!

MATT: -- of Critical Role.

(all cheer)

[opening credits]

MATT: And welcome back. So, picking up where we
left off this last episode, Vox Machina had

made their way west into the Ozmit Sea, to the
islands of Anamn and to the city of Vesrah, the

final stop in Keyleth's long-running Aramente. To
prove herself leader of her people of Zephra. Here

they were given a task, as part of the Aramente,
where they had to retrieve three lodestones within the

rift of the water elemental plane, which as of
late had been taken up residence by a kraken, an

ancient pet of the Titans, now freed and left to
wander, to feed, grow, and apparently loom across

that boundary. The party went in and, due to an
unfortunate vomiting episode underwater, drew the

attention of the kraken.

LAURA: Did you plan that?

SAM: What?

LAURA: That you were almost vomiting today, and
you vomited and ruined our lives?

SAM: I just plan to vomit every week. At least
once.

MATT: It's for the best, I think. However, drew
the attention of the kraken, and a very, very

intense battle ensued, in which most of you
managed to escape by the skin of your teeth,

however, in the battle, Vax did fall, his body
left cold and lifeless beneath the waters. In a

last-minute urge of leadership, Keyleth reached
out, grabbed the twins, and Planeshifted back into

the prime material plane, with Percival, Taryon,
and Grog looking to escape. You managed to be

vomited up with, apparently, almost no hit points
left, and jumped through the portal while flicking

off the kraken as--

TRAVIS: Double-birds.

LIAM: Badass.

MATT: And that was where we left off. So. Before
we get into this--

SAM: Wait, what? There's a before?

MATT: Vax.

MARISHA: Oh, no.

LAURA: You!

SAM: Bastard.

MATT: As you feel the cold waters rush around you,
and your vision go dark, even as the

unconsciousness takes you, your vision narrows and
tunnels until it's just nothing. And while you

were floating before, the cold temperature begins
to become warm. It's a familiar warmth. And as

opposed to being in water, there is no resistance,
you are just in a dark space. You can look down,

and you can now see your hands. And you recall,
and you remember this. You've been here before.

This is very reminiscent of your first journey
into the blood pool, your first true communion

with the Raven Queen. And the moment you make that
realization, as you're looking at your hands, you

watch as something dull and white arises from the
darkness below you, and you look down and see the

massive porcelain mask of the Raven Queen emerge
from the shadows, tendrils of darkness spilling

off the edges and the corners. As you watch the
stone face of the Raven Queen rise up to meet

yours, what seemed immense suddenly seems small.
And as the shadow pulls away, you can see the

tumbles of jet-black hair falling past the
shoulders, the long, raven-feather-woven--

[no audio]

MATT: -- gathers and then vanishes into the
impossible darkness behind her. The hands reach

out and take you by the sides of the head, and you
hear the voice once again emanating, sourceless,

ringing from all around you. It says, "My
champion. It seems you've stepped to return to me.

"But what is your destined thread to be?"

Grog, as you come jumping through 
the portal and turn to

flick off the kraken, you watch as one of its
tendrils begins to-- one of its final tentacles

that's still there pulls through and begins to try
and grab one of the sides of

the rock lodestone pillars.

TRAVIS: Oh no!

MATT: The other guardians, half merfolk, half
various individuals, rush forward and begin

stabbing at it, as it begins to get its beak
snapping right at the interior of this portal. You

see it starting to flex and the energy beginning
to pulse, it's almost trying and force its way

through a much smaller opening. Percival, Grog,
Taryon, what are you guys doing?

SAM: Oh, shit. We have to do stuff?

TRAVIS: Oh, shit.

TALIESIN: I'm still underwater, aren't I?

MATT: You all are still underwater, yes.

TRAVIS: Does this happen a lot?

MATT: The guardians right now are just shouting
and screaming and stabbing at the tentacle.

TRAVIS: (yells) A lot of that? There's a lot of
just open-mouthed (yells)?

MATT: Yeah, the guard's like, "Argh! Quick! Push
it back!" They're all stabbing it. The one

tentacle finally snaps and withdraws inside.

TRAVIS: We could just go, we could just leave,
it's just fine. It's good.

MATT: The mouth pulls back, and now the whole body
shifts over, and you see the one giant eye from

one side of the kraken come peering through--

TRAVIS: Yeah, fuck that noise.

TALIESIN: I am dragging Taryon-- and you, if I can
drag you as well-- we're walking away.

TRAVIS: The eyeball's soft, let me throw one more
time at the eyeball. Yeah, I throw the hammer at

the eyeball.

MATT: Okay, go ahead and make an attack.

TRAVIS: Okay. Reckless!

MATT: Reckless. Okay, so you had disadvantage
underwater, so it's just one roll.

TRAVIS: Ah, balls. 23.

MATT: That'll hit.

TRAVIS: Nice!

MATT: Go ahead and roll damage.

TRAVIS: I meant two-handed. Oh no, I'm throwing
it.

MATT: You're throwing it.

(music flares up)

LAURA: There it is.

MATT: This connector's a little wonky.

TRAVIS: 21 points of damage. I'm still enlarged,
right?

MATT: You are, yes.

TRAVIS: 25 points of damage.

MATT: 25. Whack! As you release the hammer, it
goes Thor-style just head-first, piercing through

the water, and (impact sound) into the open eye of
the kraken as it slams shut. You hear the (groan)

as it reels back and the voice pierces through the
rift towards you and most of the people in the

vicinity one more time, saying, "I'm coming soon
enough." And as it pulls back, the remainder of

the guardians go ahead and reach over, each
putting hands on the lodestones, and shift them

slightly in place, and you watch as the rift
crackles and then doesn't slam entirely shut, but

the image you had of the water elemental plane
suddenly grows a little more opaque and difficult

to make out the discerning details.

TRAVIS: Did I manage to (thump sound)?

MATT: Yeah, your hammer does return.

TRAVIS: Oh, thank god. Well, we all give something
every once in awhile.

MATT: So, as you're carrying the-- which you
were--

SAM: He resuscitated me, I believe?

MATT: Yes.

SAM: I have six points.

MATT: Yes. So, conscious, horribly beaten. It
seems that the kraken has been beaten back, and

currently the lode-stones are utilized to keep the
rift in check. You're uncertain as to whether or

not the threat of the kraken was an idle threat or
whatever else it has planned, but regardless,

that's the least of your worries.

TALIESIN: Did we all hear it?

SAM: Hear what?

TALIESIN: The kraken.

TRAVIS: 'Cause he mind-speaks, right?

MATT: It would've been--

TRAVIS: It brain-talks.

MATT: It would've been primarily to you, Grog, and
some of the other guardians nearby.

TALIESIN: Okay. That's good.

TRAVIS: Well, he was not happy in the end, there.
But he recognized true power

and he was sorry to see us go.

MATT: As soon as you've had this conversation, you
turn and look to the left and you see Durent there

who is waiting and goes, "Where is the rest of
them? Where's the rest? Where's Keyleth?"

TALIESIN: They-- they--

TRAVIS: They distappeared.

TALIESIN: They went away.

LAURA: (laughs) Distappeared.

MATT: "Well, let's hope that they know where
they're going, at the very least.

"Any idea where they went?"

TALIESIN: Can we breathe some air? Please?

MATT: "Aye, aye, all right, follow me, follow me."
And he starts leading the swimming cavalcade of

individuals that are leading you up to the top of
Vesrah. Back up through the Aerie of Torrent,

through the various tubes and tunnels of the reef
that leads towards the surface of the Ozmit Sea.

Simultaneously, Keyleth, Vex, and the lifeless
body of Vax, you apparate roughly ten feet above

the surface of the water on the outskirts of
Vesrah. Tumble a bit, and splash into the

foot-and-a-half shallow waters on the outskirts.
As you all get up for a minute and think about

your circumstance. Vex, you look down and you see
your brother, face-down in the water, floating.

LAURA: I flip him over and look at him. Vax! Vax,
wake up!

MARISHA: Come on. Come on. We have to get him out
of this environment. Come on.

LAURA: Is there a cleric on the island?

MARISHA: Yes. Before I do anything, I am going to
throw up a Sky Write above the city.

LAURA: I start dragging his body.

MARISHA: And it says, "Help. Cleric." That works.
They'll get the idea. Hold on to him. Get on. I am

going to turn into my giant raven form again.

LAURA: How big is that?

MARISHA: It's like the giant eagle form. I just
kind of modify it for style.

LAURA: That's tight.

MATT: Okay, so using the stats of a giant eagle
but you're going into a raven-type form.

MARISHA: Yeah, yeah.

MATT: Okay.

MARISHA: Black feathers.

TRAVIS: Good.

MARISHA: All that coolness. Yeah.

TRAVIS: It's all about branding.

MARISHA: Yeah. A hundred percent.

TRAVIS: Yep.

MATT: Okay. And what're you doing?

MARISHA: Gotta be on-message.

LAURA: Where are we going?

MARISHA: I fly off towards the center of the city,
towards where the entrance of the portal was,

'cause I'm assuming there would be sages and
clerics waiting there.

MATT: Well, the portal is beneath the city.

MARISHA: I know but there is like a--

MATT: There is the central chamber in the middle
of the city, which is where it seemed the base of

where the social gatherings seemed to occur. And
the centerpiece was where Uvenda and many of the

other keepers of the city seemed to frequent.

MARISHA: I'll head there.

MATT: Okay. So you watch as the giant raven takes
off.

LAURA: Oh no, I'm holding onto her, right?

MARISHA: Yeah, yeah, yeah.

MATT: Okay, so you're holding onto her.

MARISHA: She's holding onto him and we're riding
there.

MATT: Okay, I see. I got you. Okay so you climb
onto the back of the giant raven, clutching your

brother in one arm, and as the wings pick up, you
use all the might that you have to just hold on.

You're used to flying under your own power
usually, not somebody else's. But as the wings

take off, the sea breeze, thankfully, is not too
heavy that day. And as you coast in, coming down,

dodging between the various buildings heading
towards the central risen chamber. You watch as

the upper, third-tier level of this, there's a
single chamber that is open and the outside wall

is a series of pillars that makes up the
structure. On the inside, you can see it dips down

into three different sunken platforms, and in the
center there are a handful of small statues,

there's incense being burned, and what looks to be
a small altar of some kind. There are four figures

there inside, all dressed in similar blues and
greens, aquas and whites, most of them are just

long robes with dangling shell-based jewelry, and
various smoothed-off stones that have been found

tossed and rounded by the elements through the
years. And in the center of the chamber, in the

process of lighting a few of these, you're not
quite sure of the material, but they appear to be

candles, as you see they're being lit like
candles. You see Uvenda is walking with her staff,

taking this long burning tube, and is currently
setting them alight as you approach. As the wings

of the raven begin to prepare for landing, the
wind kicks up in front and you see some of the

other guardians put their arm up and look up
curiously. Some of them reaching back and

preparing for whatever may be there. Uvenda's
voice however rings out across the center of this

chamber and says, "Stop! Stop. I know this one who
approaches." And as they all slowly back up,

Uvenda stumbles upward, sets aside her small
hand-based wick to one of the servants and

approaches the raven as you begin to slink off the
side of the bird.

LAURA: Please! Are there any clerics here?

MATT: "We do have some here of a healing-based
nature. Yes. Has he been hurt?"

LAURA: He's-- He's dead.

MATT: She slowly approaches and reaches over and
puts her hand on the forehead of Vax's corpse.

Runs her thumb along the cold skin. "Indeed. The
kraken claims another."

LAURA: No. No, he won't claim him. What can we
do?

MATT: "The power that is at our disposal could
perhaps bring him back, though his form may be

"different than you recall."

MARISHA: I drop my form.

MATT: All right. The feathers scatter off as
Keyleth is now returned to her half-elf image.

MARISHA: Do you have means of traveling quickly?
We have a friend who is a cleric. Can you get us

to her there and back quickly? Or someone who can
Tree Stride me there and bring her back? I'm

exhausted or else I would do it myself. Please?
Please?

MATT: "I have not a means of travel, but we could
reach out to someone."

MARISHA: Yeah, yeah. Any--

MATT: "All right." And she walks back to the
altar, and you can see where there are a series of

these statues. There's four of them in the center
and there's one large statue in the center. And

the center statue, it looks almost like 
long-petrified reef. It's white, it's porous, it looks

like the long-dead reef. But it seems to swirl
into a tree-like shape. It's this weird merging of

sea and forest-based imagery, and as each various
portion of the tree outstretches, you see various

baubles are hanging from it. You see stones,
necklaces, notes. Uvenda sets her staff to the

side and her small, slightly arched form begins to
slowly crawl up the side of the tree, and it looks

a bit physically arduous for her but nobody offers
to help. You see that this is something that she's

done often and is part of her job as the guardian
here in Vesrah.

MARISHA: While she does this, I come over the
earpiece and I say, Grog, Percy, quick, get back up

to the central tower. Quick.

LAURA: How do we even know they're alive?

MARISHA: I am trusting that they are.

MATT: With the distance of the earpiece, you can
hear them. Yes.

TALIESIN: We're on our way.

MARISHA: Oh thank god. Thank god. Is everyone
still alive down there?

TALIESIN: Barely. Yes, for the moment.

MARISHA: Vax is down. So hurry.

TALIESIN: We're on our way.

MATT: As you're finishing the statement, you watch
as Uvenda is climbing down with one hand and has

something cradled in her left arm as she's like
(grunts), almost slips for a minute and sets

herself down back on both her feet and rubs her
lower back. "You'll get there one day."

LAURA: Please hurry.

MATT: And she unfurls her arm, and you can see
there's a conch shell. A small conch shell, but a

conch shell. And she goes,

"Whoever you're wishing to speak to, think of 
them and whisper it into the shell."

MARISHA: Pike. Pike, if you can hear me, we need
you, now, in Vesrah. Please, it's Vax.

LAURA: How do we know if it worked?

MARISHA: Yeah? I second that statement.

MATT: "She'll hear you. It's up to her whether or
not she can act." And she hands the conch over to

one of the assistants, takes her staff back up.
"Now, we offer the service still, should you not

"hear anything. We are more than willing to try and
restore him to whatever form we can."

LAURA: How much time does-- How long is too long?

MARISHA: I don't want to wait too long. Let's just
wait a little while longer and see if we hear

anything from Pike. She's very smart. She'll hear
us.

LAURA: I start brushing his hair off of his face.

MARISHA: While she does that, I start gathering
the feathers and start laying them out as a bed

around Vax, and preparing the station.

MATT: Okay, so the scattered remnants of your
transformation, the raven feathers that were

shunted from your form, you begin to form into a
bed-like place to set his body on. Okay. While you

guys are doing that, Durent finally breaks the
surface of the water, where you were originally

brought down into the Aerie of Torrent. And after
you've all hit the surface and breathed out, the

bright midday sun is coming down, the smell of sea
air hits you. You hear the distant cawing of

various ocean shore birds. It's a welcome change
of pace from the murky depths of the water

elemental plane you've been facing for the past
few moments. As soon as you emerge, Durent steps

up onto the sand, turns around, shakes and brushes
his hair off. "All right. Well, that's the end of

"my watch. I don't know what to do."

TRAVIS: Could you point us in the direction of
where your healers would be?

MATT: "Healers?" And he points over to the large
ascending central structure in Vesrah. The one

above where you guys had dinner the night before.
"That's your best bet there. That's where Uvenda

"is, at least. She can help you more than I do. I
spend most of my time on the outskirts,

"or down below."

TRAVIS: Right. Thank you for watching our backs in
there, that was real hairy, but we have to be

leaving you now.

MATT: "Oh, understood."

TRAVIS: Yeah.

MATT: "Hope everything's okay." And he gives you a
nod and steps over to the side and watches as you

guys go, as he retrieves one of his Waverunner
sailing boards, and watches with a look of

intensity and worry on his brow, as his dark
dwarven complexion vanishes in the distance. You

guys approaching, rushing in towards the center of
the city. As you begin to approach, you watch as

Doty, who's been waiting patiently off to the
side, comes up to you and is holding the book out,

and starts thumbing through page after page after
page.

SAM: Ah, yes, Doty, thank you. I'll review this
all later. How many pages did you fill?

MATT: He goes past about 25 different pages, in
very very tiny script, that goes into detail about

the tides going in, each person that went in and
out of the water, anything he saw in the further

distance, various birds from the sky. He does have
a few spatterings of white bird excrement across

the top of his armor.

SAM: Sure he does.

MATT: He seems as proud as an automaton could.

SAM: Very well done, Doty, thank you. We'll have
much more to write tonight, so save some energy

for that. Will you-- Will you carry me?

MATT: He sweeps you up in a full-on princess
carry, and begins running after Percival and Grog,

towards the center of Vesrah. You guys reach the
base of this. There are all the open stone

pavilions, the central gathering areas, where you
now see people starting to look up curiously,

coming out of their various homes and places,
noticing all this commotion happening on the top

of the temple. You watch as there is a spattering
of dark feathers up the top. And you guys begin to

ascend one of the two spiral staircases that
ascends to the upper level of the temple.

Eventually you guys come to the surface, you're
immediately greeted by one of the guards who is on

guard currently with one of their spears. And upon
recognizing you, he kind of steps aside and lets

you in, and that's where you guys watch as Keyleth
and Vex are laying Vax down onto a kind of

makeshift bed of black feathers.

SAM: What? Am I there?

MATT: You're there. You're still in Doty's arms.

SAM: Doty, down. What happened? What's going on?
Is he dead?

TRAVIS: Yeah. This is what happens when you
adventure.

TALIESIN: Keyleth, what--

SAM: Oh god.

MARISHA: She'll come. She'll come.

TRAVIS: Who?

TALIESIN: Are there other options?

MARISHA: I'm waiting for Pike. She'll come.

TALIESIN: Are there other options?

MARISHA: Pike will come.

LAURA: There are other options.

MARISHA: But they're not good enough. Pike will
come.

LAURA: I don't care what he looks like. I just
want him back.

MARISHA: Pike will come. I don't want to do this
without Pike. She'll come.

MATT: Uvenda at this point is starting to gather
some of the servants and they're starting to take

down certain baubles and trinkets from the tree
branches and setting them in a vicinity around,

and as she does so she's like, "These represent
protection of the waves." They take some small

salts and kind of scatter them around. They're
doing the best they can from a ceremonial

standpoint to at least prepare a space. About 15
tense moments pass, as you all look out to the

horizon, the sun now moving past its zenith and
pushing into the afternoon portion of the day. The

air is growing a little more hot. You find both
the nerves, the stress, and the temperature of the

room, all the light from the sun being reflected
off the white stone, causing this kind of heated

element of the interior and you instinctually
begin to sweat and it's getting slightly

uncomfortable. There is what sounds like a distant
rumble of thunder.

MARISHA: Where is it coming from?

MATT: You're not sure. It just sort of seemed
directionless.

TALIESIN: Is anybody else startled by it?

MATT: You guys all notice each other reacting to
the sound and suddenly it happens again, but this

time much closer.

MARISHA: Is this normal? What's happening?

MATT: Uvenda's looking a bit awkwardly in the--
"Normal? No. But let us be cautious." As she takes

her staff, her little elderly gnomish form kind of
clutching it

in front of her in a defensive standpoint.

TRAVIS: Oh, great.

LAURA: Don't let anything harm him.

TRAVIS: Yeah.

TALIESIN: I'm going to run to my room and get my
things. Have we had-- we have not had anything

vaguely resembling a short rest at this point.

MATT: No. It all happened very rapidly. The rest
has been the 15 minutes of kind of waiting to hear

if anything happened. As soon as you start darting
to leave, Percival, that rolling thunder sound

hits with a small thunder crack. Right in the room
there's a flash of light, there's a spiral burst

of what looks like a white-orange flame. And there
you see, dropped from about ten feet in the air,

the golden astral form of Pike with her extended
Sarenrae wings that slowly retract and vanish from

the form. As your gnomish friend kind of looks up,
her mostly corporeal form. Eyes wide, glancing up

at the rest of you. Ashley, if you want to come
in.

(all cheer)

SAM: As Pike, Ashley Johnson.

ASHLEY: Hello everybody. I wish it were better
circumstances. Okay, okay, okay, okay, okay.

MATT: So Pike, the message came to you and you
immediately went into a frenzy. You were in the

process of carrying a bunch of food along with
other volunteers within Emon, getting it to some

of the folks that lost their homes. And when the
voice of Keyleth hit your ears, you immediately

dropped what you were holding. You found somebody
to help to continue to lead this effort, and

immediately rushed off to find the nearest temple
of Sarenrae in Emon. Which still stands, slightly

damaged, but it's still one of the buildings of
the temple district that's fine. There, you sat in

quiet prayer for a number of minutes just
imploring to Sarenrae to offer you some sort of

guidance or way. And you felt something around you
shift, like a push, someone just kind of pushed

you in the shoulders. And as your eyes opened, you
weren't in the temple anymore. You were above a

floor in a brighter, sunlit, unfamiliar place. And
as you land and caught yourself, you can see-- You

are in your astral form, much like in the
Whitestone experience. And you turn around and

see, surrounding you in the center of this
open-air chamber in the center of this expansive

ocean, your friends, their eyes locking to you
with a look of sudden joy and despair mingled.

MARISHA: Oh, thank Sarenrae. You heard. And I just
run up and-- I was going to give her a hug, and

then pat her astral form. I hug her.

TRAVIS: Pike, we need your help.

ASHLEY: Okay. What's happening?

LAURA: (tearfully) It's Vax.

MARISHA: Can you still do some sort of
resurrection?

ASHLEY: Yeah.

MARISHA: From here?

ASHLEY: I think I can. I think I can, I will try.

MARISHA: How is this going to work with him and
the Raven Queen? What do you know?

Vex, do you know anything?

LAURA: I know nothing.

MARISHA: Do you know anything, Pike?

ASHLEY: I don't know. I've never done anything
quite like this before. I mean, most of the time

you guys have been there for resurrections, I
don't know. I don't know. We just have to try.

MARISHA: Okay.

TRAVIS: Is there anything on his armor? Like,
something we should be looking for? Like, a tab or

a button or-- No?

LAURA: I look. For any sort of message from the
Raven Queen on his armor.

MATT: Make an investigation check.

ASHLEY: That's good.

LAURA: 20. What's five plus seven?

LIAM: 32.

LAURA: No! 22.

LIAM: Oh, I thought you said 25.

MATT: 22.

LAURA: 22.

MATT: I mean, most of the runic symbols and
designs on here aren't formulated in a sentence

structure or language. You do see the roots of
them. Some of them are Draconic in root, but

they've been changed as part of the enchantment of
the armor. However, you do find a small, crumpled

note on the inside of the armor.

LAURA: Can I pull it out?

MATT: Yeah.

LAURA: What is it?

MATT: It's up to you.

LAURA: I'm going to open it.

MATT: Okay. Do you want to tell her what's on it?

LIAM: Oh, you want me to tell her? It just says
your name on it.

LAURA: My-- Fuck.

LIAM: And it says, "Take these wings and fly."

LAURA: Oh no. No. I just put it back in the
armor.

MATT: Okay.

LAURA: There's nothing.

TRAVIS: Let's go get him.

MARISHA: Okay.

LAURA: Can we start? He's been here for a while.
I'm sorry to

bring you into this so quickly, Pike.

ASHLEY: No, no, no. It's okay. I would rather be
here, and I'm glad that you guys called me.

TRAVIS: Yeah.

MATT: Because you're in your astral form, you
don't have the reagents with you. However,

reagents can be provided by the party. You rummage
through, and you require a diamond of at least 500

gold piece worth, which you have at your disposal,
so mark that off in the bag of holding.

LAURA: I'll mark it off.

MATT: Uvenda has already done a very good job of
preparing the space for a ritual not quite like

the one you're used to, but a similar variation,
hers being druid-based magic. But you work with

them over the next hour or so to take elements
they've already prepared and alter it to fit the

ritual style that you're used to, formulating and
casting. As you finish preparation and your focus,

clutching onto your holy symbol around your chest,
you feel the warmth of Sarenrae that brought you

here begin to swell around you. And you guys watch
as the ritual continues, Pike's form begins to

just emit more and more light. The interior of
this temple, which is largely shaded by the roof

of the temple, other than the sunlight coming in
from the open walls of it, the whole interior just

begins to grow brighter from Pike's presence. As
the incantation begins to slowly drift from your

lips and the magic begins to flare, the circle
that was drawn around the body, the three parts of

it-- The tricorner section of this glyph awaits.
Who wants to bring the first offering to the

ritual? The first attempt to bring.

LAURA: I'll do it. I kneel down next to him, and I
take the feathers from behind my ear, and I start

braiding them into his hair, and I say, you were
always better at this than I was, but you gave me

these feathers in one of my darkest hours to
remind me of the beauty in the world, so I'm

giving them to you now, because you take the
beauty with you. I've done this so many times.

We've brought so many of us back, but this feels
different, right? I feel as if I'm not speaking to

Vax, I feel as though I'm speaking directly to
Her.

MARISHA: Speak to him.

LAURA: No. No, he's at her side, but it's being
filtered through the Raven Queen. So these are my

words to her. I'm here today because of a bargain
my brother made with you, so I know you like to

make deals as much as I do. He traded his life. He
became your champion, and you spared mine, and

what a striking champion he is. Long dark hair and
a strong lithe figure soaring over the land in

raven feathers and a dark vestige. He set pyres in
your honor. Sent soul after soul to you. It would

be a shame to give that up, especially now. And I
remember the book that I read. Especially now as

Orcus builds his forces against you. The demon
prince of the undead seeks to claim your throne.

You know this as well as I. We just recently
killed one of his loyal servants in the Underdark,

before my brother ever came into your service.
Imagine what he could do now. So this is the deal

I make with you: you send him back, allow my
brother to come home, and we will seek out Orcus.

I will track him down, I will hunt him in whatever
pit he resides, and we will destroy your enemy

once and for all. What say you?

MATT: Make a persuasion check.

LAURA: 25.

MATT: Okay. The minute the words, what say you,
leave your lips, one third of the glyph

(charging noise) vibrates to life. Where the golden
light of Sarenrae's power that the glyph initially

emanates, the light, as it brightens, becomes a
purplish-blue hue. So.

Who wishes to be the next offering?

MARISHA: I'll go. I go up to him, and I prop up
his back and set him up against my chest and

whisper into his ear and say, I know you can hear
me. I know you're still in there, and I'm sure she

can hear me too, but your sister is right. You've
held up to your promise, to her, and you've made a

promise to me. We have to settle down and live
happily together, remember? You promised me.

Vesrah. So I want to give you a little bit of
light to follow in the darkness. And I find the

scar on his back of my handprint. And I find it
and I cast Daylight into his back, into the hand

print and say, and besides... You know I'm in love
with you, right? (quietly) That's it.

MATT: Roll a d20 and add your wisdom.

MARISHA: God damn it (sniffles) Which dice? Okay.

20 total.

MATT: 20 total.

MARISHA: Yeah. (whispering) Come on, come on, come
on.

MATT: As the Daylight spell brightens, your
instinct is to close your eyes, but you push

against it, and you know this will temporarily
burn to your retinas but you still,

holding that still--

MARISHA: I don't care.

MATT: --whispering into him. You can feel, not
just the tears of your emotion but the instinctual

pain of the blinding light piercing the inside of
your eyes, but you hold strong as you whisper to

him and as the final word leaves your lips, the
second portion of the glyph grows alight and then

transitions to that same purple-blue color. At
which point, the Daylight spell diminishes in a

way that you weren't expecting. As opposed to
being this bright, glowing, blasting beacon, it

shrinks down to a small condensed gentle glow, and
you're afraid to move your hand.

MARISHA: And I don't.

MATT: Okay. There's the last offering.

SAM: Do you think I should?

TRAVIS: Shut the fuck up.

SAM: Oh, no?

TRAVIS: Yeah.

(all laugh)

SAM: All right.

TALIESIN: You in?

TRAVIS: Yeah.

TALIESIN: All right.

TRAVIS: I'll go, then. I go over to Vax. Is he on
a raised platform?

MATT: No, actually, he's on the ground in a bed of
black feathers and currently is propped up against

Keyleth's chest. She's sitting behind him so he's
leaning back against her,

she has her hand against his back.

TRAVIS: I'll stand over him. I told you before. No
one kills you but me. And I think back to being in

Percy's workshop at Greyskull Keep and I say, I
love you too. And I reach back

and I slap the ever-loving fucking shit 
out of his dead face.

(all laugh)

MATT: Make an intimidation check.

(all laugh)

MATT: Adding your strength.

LIAM: Oh, jesus.

TRAVIS: 22.

MATT: 22, okay. (echoing cracks) Keyleth, it
knocks him out of your grasp,

the impact is so hard.

MARISHA: I just keep my hand-- come on, you have
to be that hard?

MATT: The body just kinda (boof) onto the side--

LAURA: Oh!

MATT: --you're like, oh god. You pick him back
up.

TRAVIS: Love hurts, Keyleth.

MARISHA: I was-- oh shit.

SAM: I just let out a (yelps).

(all laugh)

MATT: The third and final portion of the circular
glyph alights, and then transitions to that

purplish-blue glow, the entire circle complete.
Oh, I want another dice.

LAURA: Oh god, oh god.

MARISHA: Oh jesus.

MARISHA: Why is he taking a picture again?

LAURA: He always does that.

SAM: He always takes a picture, he always takes a
picture. It's a thing.

MARISHA: Oh, fucking hell. Oh jesus, come on.

MATT: The glyphs go dark and so does the light of
the outside. The entire central chamber goes dark,

the light being crushed and squeezed from the
vicinity. You watch as the air gets cold and a

slight breeze picks up and in the darkness around
you, surrounding the lifeless body of Vax, all you

see is your family and darkness and there is a
glowing little thread, a bead, in the sternum of

Vax's lifeless corpse and you watch as a hand
suddenly appears from out of the darkness and

reaches down and grasps the thread, and emerging
from the darkness, you all see for the first time

the white, porcelain masked face of the Raven
Queen. As she tugs on the small bead, you watch as

a bright, white thread begins to be drawn from the
center of his chest and as it does he lifts up

like a puppet, just limply dangling from it. He's
lifted out of your grasp and Keyleth, you

instinctually try and reach for him but this
spectacle is-- you find yourself unable to move,

whether it be by some other power or just the
sheer awe of some sort of a presence here. As he's

dangled up on this thread, she stops and holds him
there. The mask looks past all of you and without

the mouth moving a voice fills your minds. "My
champion has learned much and has done great deeds

"in the service of fate."

"But there is still much to
be done before my charge is complete in him."

She releases the thread and he drifts down onto his
feet, arms and head still limp. It slowly

withdraws into his chest. "We shall meet again.
Come find me when the time is right and I call to

"you to meet me beyond the divine gate." And as the
mask withdraws into shadow and her form vanishes

into darkness, suddenly the light comes back in.
You all kinda close your eyes and blink it and the

visions gone and you see all the servants around,
still standing in the places they were just

looking intently at Vax, their eyes still wide
open and you watch as the limp, standing form

there before you, the wings of black feathers
slowly stretch out from his shoulders (crackling)

and as they reach out and stretch and open, his
head pulls back and

(heavy breath) takes a breath of living air into 
his lungs and his eyes blink open.

TRAVIS: How do you feel?

LIAM: Where are we? I just loop my sister's head
and then I loop Keyleth and I just pull them in.

(gasps) Where are we?

LAURA: Vesrah. You're alive. (laughs) Hey, that
queen, she's pretty scary looking, huh?

MARISHA: Yeah, you're not kidding, that's pretty
intense.

ASHLEY: Hi Vax.

LIAM: Welcome to my last four months.

LAURA: (laughs) Hey, Pike.

ASHLEY: Hi, it's Pickle.

LAURA: Pike's here.

(shaky laughter)

LIAM: Pike.

MARISHA: She did it again.

LAURA: She fixed you.

ASHLEY: No, I didn't.

LIAM: Can I feel you?

MATT: There is some physicality to her divine
form. Pike feels like she's there, like she can be

held and touched, but it's like touching a warm,
soft Jello.

ASHLEY: I go and I give him a big 'ol hug. A
Jello-y hug. Gloop!

MATT: Or like a big piece of cotton. It's softer
and gives a bit.

MARISHA: Cotton candy Pike.

MATT: Kinda, yeah. Kinda.

LIAM: I take hold of the Jello head and press my
head into it and say, thank you, sister.

ASHLEY: Of course, Vax.

LIAM: Thank you.

ASHLEY: I give him a cotton candy kiss on his
forehead.

TRAVIS: Aw, man.

MATT: As she does so, and she releases your head,
Vax, you look at her face and you look up and just

behind her, you see the mask there, and the voice
comes to your head. None of you see this, just

Vax. And says, "Soon. I'll call for your purpose.
In time." And it just fades and you can now see

the sea beyond the midday of Vesrah now
surrounding you.

LIAM: Whoa. Hey, I feel like shit.

LAURA: Hey welcome to the club.

TRAVIS: Yeah, you punched your card.

LAURA: Yeah, all that's left now is Keyleth.

MATT: Which, by the way, your jaw is sore and
you're pretty sure you're missing a tooth.

LAURA: Oh!

TRAVIS: Can't grow that back, bitch.

MATT: Okay, yeah.

LIAM: (spits) I walk over to Grog, and I try to
reach my arms around him and fail.

You fucking fucker, come here.

TRAVIS: Yeah, welcome back. Don't be weird.

LIAM: Ah, you've met me, right?

TRAVIS: That's true.

LIAM: Yeah.

MARISHA: Glad you're not dead. Really glad you're
not dead.

LIAM: Me too.

LAURA: Do you need to rest? Do you need to go lay
down?

LIAM: Don't we all?

MARISHA: I feel like we all need to rest.

LAURA: Well yes, but--

TRAVIS: I'm good.

MARISHA: I turn to Uvenda.

MATT: Okay. She's still kind of like, "Well. I'm
glad to see that this was a success. That your

"friend could come in aid as well."

MARISHA: Grog. Tary.

SAM: Yes?

MARISHA: The lodestones.

LAURA: Oh. I pull mine out as well.

SAM: Oh. Oh, yes. I hereby present to you a
lodestone that I got at the bottom of the sea.

MARISHA: Yeah. Good job, good job. Good work.

MATT: She kind of points over and the servants
come up and collect the three of them and she

goes, "Well, this is fine news. I was worried that
we had a loss, and perhaps this endeavor was

"incomplete. However, it appears that you've both
survived the encounter with the current scourge to

"Vesrah's rift, and you've completed your
Aramente, young Keyleth. There will be a

"celebration tonight before we send you back to
Zephra,

"where you will be formally crowned by your 
father, Korren."

MARISHA: Oh, that's happening tonight? Oh wow,
this stuff moves fast, yeah

MATT: "We'll celebrate this evening. You'll return
at your leisure, but--" And she kind of walks up

to you, and she can see the tears, and she kind of
reaches up with her wrinkled, sun-wrecked, elderly

gnome skin. And reaches up and rubs the tears from
your face and goes, "It's all right. You've done

"well. And I'm sorry."

MARISHA: For what?

MATT: "For a lot of things. The Aramente didn't
used to be this dangerous. It's tradition, but our

"trial has changed, and while we grew confident in
your confidence upon arrival, we should've been

"more attentive. This might not have happened."

MARISHA: No. It was my negligence in proper
planning that added to this.

MATT: "That may be the lesson learned at this
trial. But I think we have learned a lesson as

"well. And perhaps we need to adjust our trial,
given the dangers

"of our recent elemental guardian."

MARISHA: I think the landscape of the world has
changed a lot recently, and I think the Aramente

should reflect that. So I would be honored to
provide any insight to help.

MATT: "Well, come back. Come back once you've
returned to your people and become the Voice of

"the Tempest. Then we may alter however you see
fit. Anyway, glad you're awake!"

Taps you on the head with the staff.

TRAVIS: Unconscious.

(all laugh)

MATT: "Shit!"

LAURA: How many people lose their lives on their
Aramente? How many people complete it?

MATT: "Well, the Aramente is generally not a
lethal experience. The kraken only arrived this

"recent generation, and honestly, the only two
who's had to take it with the kraken's presence

"were Keyleth and her mother."

MARISHA: What?

TALIESIN: I'd been hoping to run a perception
check through pretty much this entire

conversation, to make sure she's being completely
honest about everything.

MATT: Insight check, you mean?

TALIESIN: Yeah, an insight check. Meh, 13.

MATT: 13. Hard to read.

TALIESIN: Okay.

MATT: She seems to be upfront.

MARISHA: What do you mean? Why were we the only
ones with the tools?

MATT: "Well, before the kraken came to the rift,
it was simply an excursion to gather the

"lodestones amongst errant elementals and other
mild dangers within the plane. The kraken had only

"been drawn to the rift--"

MARISHA: Recently.

MATT: "-- recently. And unfortunately, Vilya was
the first to take the trial

"with it residing just beyond our door."

LAURA: How many people did she have with her?

MATT: "She went in with five."

MARISHA: And none returned?

MATT: "None. Two of which were our own."

MARISHA: I'm sorry.

MATT: "That's the danger we face in these times.
To exist among such ravaging elemental forces is

"a danger unto itself. But that is the call of the
Ashari by nature, is it not?"

MARISHA: Yes, it is.

MATT: "To safeguard the rest of civilization from
these terrors. Anyway, enough dourness. It got

"rather cold here and I think we could use some
warming heat of the sun, some food and perhaps

"some rest for you." Hits you again on the
forehead.

LIAM: I'm alive.

MARISHA: Do you mind if we take a brief respite
amongst ourselves, before we catch up with you and

join in the festivities?

MATT: "But of course! It's--" And she looks at the
sun. "It's about time for my sailing, so I'll see

"you here in the next hour or two." And she goes,
and two of her servants start

flanking her down the stairway.

MARISHA: Kaitiaki, Uvenda.

MATT: She stops and turns, looking back at all of
you, and gives a deep bow. "Kaitiaki." Continues

to make her way down the stairs.

ASHLEY: Keyleth.

MARISHA: Group hug, guys, group hug!

TRAVIS: You did it.

MARISHA: Come here, Tary, you too.

SAM: Oh, me too? All right, okay. Sure, sure. This
is natural, this is right.

LIAM: Who is that?

LAURA: What are you talking about, 'who is that'?

LIAM: That guy, who is that guy?

LAURA: What are you talking about, that is Taryon.

SAM: Oh, come now. You recognize me. Taryon
Darrington! The brave, the bold. We both fell in

battle, so I know exactly how you feel right now.

LIAM: Oh, I've read your book!

SAM: Well.

LIAM: I know you.

LAURA: I didn't think it was published yet.

SAM: Not quite yet, but I'm sure people are
already talking about it.

LIAM: How did you do, Tary?

SAM: Well--

TRAVIS: Yeah, how did you do, Tary?

TALIESIN: Well, he did well.

SAM: Doty, take this down.

MATT: Which, as you look over, Doty has been faced
away from the entire ritual and had been recording

the various weather elements and surroundings.

SAM: Doty, no! We just witnessed an amazing
ritual. Did you not get any of that?

MATT: Turns the book around and you can see it
talks about cloud structures, it talks about a few

children that were playing in the water below.

SAM: Well, you are consistent. I'll fill you in on
the details of that later, but now take this down.

'Plagued by an incompetent plan and ambushed by a
surprise from a kraken, we nevertheless stayed

'true to ourselves and to our bravery, found the
lodestones and, despite nearly dying, came back to

'tell the tale, proving ourselves as heroes of
Vesrah and to each other. I was aided by young

'Percival in my fight. Abandoned by the Antlers and
the Elves. And by the end of the fight, it was

'just me and the big guy, duking it out. I blacked
out for a moment, but before I did, I'm sure he

'saw my bravery and was impressed. That's why he
dragged me to safety and presented me to Percival

'for healing.' That's enough for now.

LAURA: You forgot to mention the part where you
vomited and blew our cover.

MARISHA: Oh, that's right, you did do that.

LAURA: Thank you.

SAM: It's not-- This is the abridged-- I don't
want to bore the readers with too much detail.

TRAVIS: It's so weird. I totally remember walking
past you and trying to leave.

SAM: Somehow, I got to the rift door and I didn't
get there on my own, so thank you. Thank you, Big

Guy, for dragging me there. I appreciate it.

LAURA: Um, Pike.

SAM: Oh!

ASHLEY: Have I met-- I don't know-- My memory is
not-- Who are you?

SAM: Taryon Darrington. We passed briefly in
Whitestone.

MATT: Briefly, yes.

ASHLEY: Yes, I didn't realize you were still with
my family.

SAM: I'll switch to Gnome.

ASHLEY: Oh, it's fine, I can--

SAM: And I'll say, oh, you're friendly with these
people as well?

ASHLEY: Ah, yes.

SAM: They've taken me in and they're showing me
the ropes of adventure, and we've already done

quite a lot. We were on a boat that was attacked.

ASHLEY: Oh wow.

SAM: And we almost died, but I destroyed the beast
that was attacking us with a bit of magic.

ASHLEY: How did you destroy it? Do tell me.

SAM: I have a lot of tricks. Magical things that I
think you might even understand, because it seems

that you are a magic user yourself.

ASHLEY: I dabble.

SAM: The resurrection thing that you just did was
amazing. I've never seen anything like it, and it

was quite astounding for somehow who's not really
here. Hello?

MATT: Your hand (impact sounds) does actually hit
the side of her face.

SAM: Oh! Sorry, sorry.

LAURA: And they're speaking this whole time in
Gnome?

MATT: Yeah. This whole time, you've been hearing
(talks Gnome).

SAM: By the way, how is my accent? I haven't had a
chance to practice Gnome on an actual gnome in a

long, long time, since I was a boy.

ASHLEY: It's terrible.

SAM: Oh.

ASHLEY: But it's nice to be able to speak it.

SAM: I apologize profusely for butchering your
language. I learned it by books, and, as I've

said, I've only had a chance to speak it once
before to a gnome who visited

my family's estate a long time ago.

ASHLEY: Oh? All gnomes know each other, so who was
it?

SAM: I didn't catch the fellow's name.

ASHLEY: It was a fellow, that narrows it down.

SAM: He was part of a performing troupe that my
father hired to entertain us on New Year's Eve.

And they came in, stayed a few days. I remember
quite vividly though that they left in a hurry.

Something went on with one of the members of the
troupe and my father's handmaiden, and he was very

upset with it and he chased them all off in the
morning. I didn't get to continue practicing with

him. All I know is, my father was so upset.
Something happened in his room, he had to burn his

bedsheets, and I think he got a new bed. I don't
know quite what happened, but it was quite a

dramatic thing. I was only about 12 or 13 at the
time.

ASHLEY: That sounds like somebody that I would
love tremendously.

SAM: Well, he had a sharp wit to him, and-- not
very attractive young man, but--

ASHLEY: He sounds very familiar. Like I said, us
gnomes do know each other.

SAM: That's amazing.

ASHLEY: Yeah.

SAM: Really? And is it true that you live hundreds
of years, and--

ASHLEY: Thousands, even.

SAM: Is-- Oh! I--

ASHLEY: Thousands.

SAM: I was misinformed.

ASHLEY: It's something you should know. Yes, I
should-- if you need to know anything, you should

always ask me.

SAM: I will. I--

ASHLEY: I will tell you all the truths.

SAM: I will-- I was planning on doing at least one
chapter in my book about the smaller races, and

that would be an excellent--

MARISHA: Oh boy.

SAM: -- an excellent fitting, uh, addendum.

ASHLEY: (laughs) Well.

TALIESIN: Yeah. Yeah.

ASHLEY: You are just delightful.

(all laugh)

SAM: Well you-- you are, too. Pleasure to meet--
make your acquaintance.

ASHLEY: (laughs) Okay.

TRAVIS: You can feel free to smoke this fool, it's
fine.

ASHLEY: No, that's fine. He's a little bit of a
twat, isn't he?

TRAVIS: A little bit.

ASHLEY: I don't mind him, though. All right.

MATT: All right. So. As you guys take a little bit
of time to go ahead and rest, recover, converse,

and bask in--

MARISHA: Heal up a bit?

MATT: Heal up a bit, take a short rest, use your
hit dice, get your abilities back that do come

back from a short rest, we're gonna go ahead and
take a quick break. Be back here in a few minutes.

Hold onto that back-up character!

SAM: Oh!

MATT: 'Til later.

LAURA: Oh, until later, okay, okay.

MARISHA: In case.

LIAM: I'm 98% relieved and 2% bummed that I--

MATT: I know!

TALIESIN: No, I know the feeling, man.

MATT: I know. Who knows, it may still come up.

LIAM: Yeah.

MATT: (laughs)

TRAVIS: What does that mean?! We don't know what
that means! You can't say that shit!

MATT: What?

LIAM: Raven Queen. Just kidding! (weird caw
noise)

TRAVIS: Raven King! Wooloolooloo!

MATT: It's almost like future challenges in the
story might involve more death, I don't know.

LAURA: Uh-huh.

ASHLEY: I'm eating my feelings.

(all laugh)

MATT: Yeah, a little disappointed, but this works
well.

LAURA: So we'll heal up now.

MATT: Yeah, heal up now, we're gonna take a break,
we'll be here in a few minutes, guys. Much love.

We have another giveaway from our friends at
Wyrmwood tonight! I don't know what we're giving

away, 'cause I was to give--

CREW: Dice tower. Dice tower!

MATT: A dice tower! Oh, snap. You guys are getting
a full-scale dice tower. What is it? It is wood.

It is made of wood and it is a dice tower.

CREW: We're running it up to you!

MATT: And it's gonna be free to the winner! So,
come on over to the Twitch chat, and get involved

over the break. The word is raven, R-A-V-E-N.

TRAVIS: 69 hit points.

MATT: Go ahead and-- Yeah you are, Grog. Oh. Oh
snap! That is not a dice tower--

CREW: Not a dice tower.

MATT: -- it's a deck box.

CREW: Sentinel box.

MATT: Sentinel box! Which is still rad. They told
me it was a-- but however-- oh, that's cool! It

has like a small magnetic-- must be for minis
and-- or dice, if you want to. So that's pretty

rad, actually. So anyway, this 'Bird's Eye Maple
Sentinel Deck Box' is gonna go

to whoever the winner is.

TRAVIS: Oh, that's pretty.

MATT: Type 'Raven' into the chat room of Twitch to
win. We'll have an announcement when we come back.

See you guys in a few minutes.

(all cheer)

[break]

MATT: Welcome back, everyone, to Critical Role.

(background laughter)

MATT: Damn it. First and foremost, I wanna mention
that our fantastic fundly to Amandine is

apparently already really close to its goal!

(cheers)

MATT: So if you guys want to check it out, it's
fundly.com/we-love-amandine A-M-A-N-D-I-N-E. If

you can give anything, we're almost at the goal,
which is awesome.

TRAVIS: That's amazing.

MATT: Also, we have the winner in chat!

SAM: (loud burp)

MATT: Thank you, Sam.

TALIESIN: Whoa.

SAM: Sorry. Still reeling.

TALIESIN: How you feeling, buddy?

SAM: Still reeling.

MATT: We have the winner in chat of our fantastic
deck box from our friends at Wyrmwood, it is

@stevetharia! @stevetharia, you are the winner,
we're gonna go ahead and sign that box and get it

sent to you, that Sentinel box. Congratulations.
We'll have more giveaways in future episodes, so

if you didn't get it tonight, come back again, and
have another chance, which is awesome! All right.

So. Bringing us back in. You guys have had some
time to recover, gather your thoughts, gather your

wits, and reflect on the recent near-permanent
loss of your Champion of the Raven Queen,

Vax'ildan. You now currently sit wherever you'd
like within the city of Vesrah in preparation for

an evening celebration. Is there anything you guys
wish to do in the meantime?

LIAM: How much time has passed since I got brought
back up there?

MATT: About an hour.

LIAM: About an hour?

MATT: Yeah.

LIAM: A little over an hour?

MATT: A little over an hour, I'd say.

LIAM: A little over an hour?

MATT: Just from resting, yeah.

LIAM: Just out of curiosity, do my wings 'shloop'
back in?

MATT: Yes, they have retracted.

LIAM: They did.

TALIESIN: Where is everybody?

MARISHA: Yeah, are we all together?

MATT: You guys are all together, if you wanna be,
yeah.

LAURA: Can we be on the beach?

MARISHA: Ooh, yeah.

MATT: Sure!

TALIESIN: Yes.

SAM: Is there a beach?

MATT: Well, there are portions where the sand kind
of breaks the surface-- a lot of it is, you know,

maybe a foot, foot and a half, below the water
before you start hitting the reef and the, you

know, the beach shelf drop off, but there are
places where the sand rises above, and there are

patches where you see a lot of the kids kind of
play around and leap off of, and there are beach

elements closer to the islands on the outskirts of
the city, between the actual islands themselves.

So yeah, there are beaches.

TALIESIN: I'm going to be crafting little seashell
necklaces or hair bits for everybody-- I've been

working on a hair bit.

LAURA: I like it.

TALIESIN: Mm. Little--

LAURA: Like a hair bit, or like a hair bit that
goes like this?

ASHLEY: Ooh.

TALIESIN: Yeah, and like the--

MARISHA: Oh, yeah yeah, yeah!

TALIESIN: -- with the little, yeah.

LAURA: Ooh! Yeah!

MARISHA: With a-- mm.

TALIESIN: You know what it-- yeah--

LAURA: I like it.

MATT: Yeah.

TALIESIN: It's like we've had this conversation.

LAURA: (laughs)

TALIESIN: Making little bits for everybody.

MATT: There you go. As you're working on that,
Vax, you do notice in this time that you see one

of your sister's feathers that's kind of carefully
braided into your hair.

LAURA: All of. I've only got two of 'em and
they're both in his hair.

MATT: There you go. Both of your sister's feathers
are braided into your hair.

MARISHA: I have something for you all. I have
presents.

TRAVIS: Presents?

MARISHA: Mm-hm.

LAURA: What for?

MARISHA: Well, I had Gilmore help me out with a
little something for if and when I completed the

Aramente, as a thank you, so I got them from him
before we left-- granted, in hindsight, I'm never

holding onto presents ever again, 'cause we could
all just die any day. But!

LIAM: Like we do.

MARISHA: At least--

LAURA: Like you do.

MARISHA: Yeah, like you do. But this time it
worked out okay. And I pull out all the necklaces.

These are from the dragons we've collected.
They're dragon-tooth necklaces.

ALL: Ooh!

MARISHA: And I had Gilmore enchant a very simple
enchantment to each of them, so it won't-- you

won't have to focus or attune to it--

LAURA: Oh!

MARISHA: -- if any one of us goes unconscience--
unconscious.

LIAM: We're with you.

MARISHA: If any one of us goes unconscious--

LIAM: Don't sweat the details.

MARISHA: Thank you. The rest of them will start
beating a little heartbeat. That way, we know if

any one of us goes down, even if we can't see each
other. So. Grog!

TRAVIS: Yeah!

MARISHA: Pike!

ASHLEY: Thanks!

MARISHA: And Vex!

LAURA: It's wonderful, it's a little morbid and
wonderful at the same time.

ASHLEY: I love it.

MARISHA: Yeah. I know--

LIAM: Nah, it's fucking badass.

LAURA: That's so wonderful, Keyleth.

TRAVIS: It's nails.

MARISHA: Figure we all go unconscious so often--

LAURA: That's so thoughtful.

TRAVIS: Well, most of us do.

ASHLEY: Is that for--

MARISHA: Mm. Totally had this one made for
Scanlan.

TRAVIS: Mm. Just hold onto it.

TALIESIN: I say--

SAM: I understand, and that's fine. I--

MARISHA: Think I should hold onto it?

TRAVIS: Yeah, just hold onto it.

LIAM: Yeah.

TRAVIS: Don't give it to him.

LIAM: I mean, this is a--

MARISHA: But here's a flower! And I Druidcraft him
a flower.

SAM: Oh!

LAURA: What a bummer! Oh, I feel like somebody
that just got party invitations,

it's like oh, I ran out!

TALIESIN: I make sure Tary gets a little seashell
crown. So.

MATT: Okay.

SAM: Thank you. This flower--

MARISHA: I mean, you can-- do you wanna wear it
for now?

TALIESIN: We do have to get him an earpiece.

MATT: As you're staring at the flower and
contemplating the awkwardness, you feel Percival

slowly come up behind you and just put a little
seashell crown on your head.

TALIESIN: Long may he reign.

(all laugh)

TRAVIS: Oh. My. God. Oh my god.

TALIESIN: Is there anyone else around, by the
way?

TRAVIS: Science bro vomit.

TALIESIN: I wanna check, are we being listened to?
Is there anyone within earshot? Is there

anything--

MATT: Make a perception check.

MARISHA: You know, maybe I should go ahead and
just give this to Tary, I can always have Gilmore

make another one.

TALIESIN: 16?

LAURA: You could always get it back from him if he
decides to leave our presence.

MATT: I mean, there are folks wandering around,
and there are some people that are kind of just

younger folk--

LAURA: It could be safe, if he's---

TALIESIN: Okay.

MATT: -- or people that are general denizens of
Vesrah that are just excited that all of a sudden

these people came in and apparently battled a
kraken and word has gotten around already--

LAURA: Just let him know it's to hold it.

MARISHA: Here, Tary.

SAM: What?

MARISHA: Just... you did good.

SAM: You're giving this to me?

MARISHA: You did good here today.

SAM: You're giving this to me.

MARISHA: At least for now. I can probably have
another made--

SAM: I drop to my knees. My lady,

TALIESIN: Oh.

MARISHA: Oh, jeez. Oh.

SAM: I cannot express to you what this means, to
be accepted as a full-fledged

member of this team, and--

(sounds of protest)

SAM: I knew this day would come, I didn't think so
soon, but--

TALIESIN: It has not come.

SAM: -- I suppose, finding that lodestone and
helping you on your 'acapakay'--

TALIESIN: Ooh.

LIAM: I lay down on the sand and just close my
eyes.

SAM: -- was enough to win over your good graces.
I've watched you in these last few battles, and

you have been powerful--

MARISHA: Okay-- thank you-- thank you.

SAM: I wasn't done.

TRAVIS: (laughs)

SAM: Powerful, confident, and enthralling, and I
vow to use this to the betterment of our entire

team, to make sure that none of us fall in battle,
not me, not Percy, not you, not either of the

elves, not short stuff or the big guy.

ASHLEY: Ooh (laughs). Oh, you're so great.

MARISHA: Thank you.

LAURA: He doesn't know our names.

SAM: Thank you, so much.

ASHLEY: He doesn't know your names.

MARISHA: Thank you, thank you. That's--

TRAVIS: Look what you did.

SAM: I will cherish it always.

MARISHA: Yeah, all right, thank-- you're welcome.
Thank you.

LIAM: Keyleth, you have just passed the final
challenge of your Aramente.

MARISHA: I think you're right.

TALIESIN: I wonder--

MARISHA: I can't take it back from him now. Or
ever.

MATT: As you put it on, Doty's hand goes--

SAM: Oh.

LIAM: Grog will take it back.

SAM: Oh, he's sketching me?

MATT: Doty begins sketching you.

(all laugh)

SAM: No-- wait 'til I find the light, find the
light, find the light--

LAURA: Trinket goes up and pees on Doty's leg.

MATT: (lumbering bear noises)

LIAM: I'm imagining a really simple etch-a-sketch
drawing.

MATT: (sniffs, then pee sounds)

SAM: I don't want to move, I'll break the pose.

MATT: It's warm.

LAURA: Oh, Trinket, that's not a tree. That's a
robot.

MATT: (bear sounds)

LAURA: Yeah.

TALIESIN: Oh, dear.

LAURA: It'll come off. Don't worry.

MATT: Doty does not seem the least perturbed by
it.

TALIESIN: Uh.. Keyleth, I've been thinking. What
do you think the Aramente is supposed to teach?

MARISHA: I've been thinking about that a lot
myself.

TALIESIN: I'm regretting that I hadn't been
thinking about it until today.

MARISHA: Well, they don't really tell you much.
Just tell you to go back-- go out into the world

and prove yourself a leader, with no real
definition on what they think a leader should be.

TALIESIN: Well, they tell you to go out and gather
a group of friends, and then thrust yourself into

a death-defying situation that is likely to get
people killed.

MARISHA: That is one way you could phrase it,
yes.

TALIESIN: I'm-- and I don't mean to worry you--
just be cautious, I don't-- I have that nagging

feeling, and I'm hoping it's wrong, but I think it
is possible that they feel you did not lose-- you

did not learn the lesson of the Aramente.

MARISHA: Well, that'll be a discussion that I have
with Korren, with my father.

TALIESIN: What if the lesson is loss? What if
you're supposed to go down there and watch people

that you love die?

MARISHA: We're not barbaric! We're not-- no one
wants to lose anyone on an Aramente.

TALIESIN: The thing that defines the worst leader
a people could have is a lack of empathy.

MARISHA: Do you think I'm not empathetic?

TALIESIN: I think that they make sure their
leaders might-- I think it's possible, I don't--

I'm nervous. I think it's possible that they make
sure their leaders are empathetic by making sure

they know pain.

MARISHA: Percy, do you not think that we have
experienced ample amount of pain and loss over the

course of this?

TALIESIN: I do, I just hope that it was enough-- I
just-- you know me.

MARISHA: It's not a blood sacrifice, it's a
tradition, it's meant to show us the world, and

yes it's flawed and I want to fix that.

TALIESIN: This is beautiful here, and I-- I look
forward to leaving.

MARISHA: Ha.

TALIESIN: And I'm very proud of you, but I will be
on my guard, just in case.

MARISHA: I don't think my traditions really vary
that much from yours, which could still be

perceived as old-fashioned, if you will?

TALIESIN: Every farm boy in Whitestone, once he's
old enough to talk and work, names an animal,

raises it, and butchers it.

MARISHA: You know, it's interesting, Percy, I've
always looked at you and I as that

opposites-attract conundrum. As my best friend, I
feel like you are always the natural born leader

who has been running away from it ever since I met
you, and I'm the one who's not as naturally

gifted, but is racing towards it faster than--

TALIESIN: I think I'm too cruel to lead. (sighs)
Regardless, speaking of which, oh boy. Grog.

TRAVIS: Yes?

TALIESIN: I have something to say. In a moment of
panic, I may have influenced your decision to save

Taryon from the kraken. I instantly regretted it--
not because of you, Taryon, I do apologise for

that-- I instantly regretted it. It was a poor
decision. I fully apologize, and if you wish to

keep my glasses, I totally understand, and at the
very least, if I have a swift punch in the face

coming, I completely understand. I'm so sorry. And
I wish I could say I would never do it again, but

I honestly don't trust myself that much. But I am
really, really sorry, and if anything had happened

I would have run in to save you as best I could.

TRAVIS: You look so, like, constipated right now.

TALIESIN: I think you're gonna punch me.

(all laugh)

TRAVIS: How did you influence my decision?

TALIESIN: It's-- I don't know, sometimes I can
just be unnaturally convincing.

TRAVIS: Is that a bad thing?

TALIESIN: In the wrong hands, which are my hands
on occasion. I felt bad. I feel bad. I feel like I

did-- I was not a good-- I feel like I made a poor
decision, and put you in peril, and subverted your

free will. Does that make-- Uh, no.

LAURA: (laughs)

TALIESIN: Small words.

MATT: You do, Grog, recall as you guys were
swimming up to Vesrah, and you were kind of

following up to the path, you thought, why did I
save Taryon?

TRAVIS: Yeah, why did I save Taryon?

TALIESIN: Because I'm a jerk. That's why you saved
Taryon, 'cause I'm--

because I can be a bad friend.

TRAVIS: Mm. What does that have to do with me?

TALIESIN: I just am trying to be honest with you,
because I respect you, and I would hate for you to

think that-- I-- (sighs) Terrible at this.

MARISHA: Are you all right, Percy?

TALIESIN: No, I'm not all right. I've made some
bad decisions today and I've terrible thoughts

and-- Ugh, I'm so tired.

TRAVIS: Tary?

SAM: Yes, sir?

TRAVIS: Are you glad you're alive?

SAM: Extremely.

TRAVIS: Well, there you go.

TALIESIN: How about we just say I owe you one?

TRAVIS: I owe you one?

TALIESIN: I owe you one.

TRAVIS: I thought you said I say I owe you one.

MARISHA: (laughs)

TALIESIN: No, well, you can say that, too, but
just know that-- that I owe you one.

I owe you-- what-- It's--

TRAVIS: How would that even work?

TALIESIN: That would work--

TRAVIS: We'd just be owing each other forever.

TALIESIN: I just-- Have some seashells... And a
skipping rock.

TRAVIS: Ooh!

(all laugh)

TALIESIN: I feel better. That's all I needed.

TRAVIS: I leave.

TALIESIN: That's all I needed, I feel better.

LAURA: Don't worry, Percy, he makes it--

MATT: (laughs) As Grog walks away with a skipping
rock--

TRAVIS: (laughs)

LIAM: Somewhere in the middle of all that serious
talk, I've pulled my sister off to the side and--

TRAVIS: (laughs) So good.

LIAM: -- have cajoled her into playing Airship.
You know, when, so-- we used to do this as kids--

TRAVIS: (laughs)

LIAM: -- I lay on my back--

LAURA: (gasps)

LIAM: -- and I lift her up in the air--

LAURA: Yeeeah!

LIAM: -- with my feet holding her up--

LAURA: I love this game!

LIAM: -- and I'm kind of in pain but I can kinda
do it.

MARISHA: (laughs)

LAURA: How do you even have strength for this
right now?

LIAM: (groans) I am ropy as fuck.

LAURA: (laughs)

LIAM: We are almost even now--

LAURA: In what?

LIAM: Well, we're twins, so, you've died, I've
died.

(all laugh)

LAURA: Oh, right! I thought you meant in size.

LIAM: No, no, no.

ASHLEY: (laughs)

LIAM: But you've died twice. So--

LAURA: Yes, I have.

LIAM: You are more ambitious than I am.

LAURA: (laughs) We've always known that.

LIAM: (laughs) Yeah. You know, we really need a
break.

LAURA: Yes, we do.

LIAM: I think we're going to hell soon,
literally-- But maybe after that, maybe we could

take a break.

LAURA: I don't know if that's going to happen,
dear. I sort of made a promise to your queen.

Could you hear it on the other side?

LIAM: I don't remember anything.

LAURA: When we were trying to bring you back, I
kind of sort of-- And I come down off of his feet

(laughs) and stand up--

LIAM: (painful groaning)

LAURA: I kind of, sort of promised her we would
hunt down Orcus.

MATT: You do recall hearing those-- As she says
this, you remember now the various things that

were said, as the ritual's kinda coming to
clarity. And you realize the immensity of the

offer that was given.

LAURA: I mean, I was trying to get you back. I
know that is really hard and we probably are going

to have a very hard time finding Orcus and killing
him since he's like, you know, a god, I think--

TRAVIS: Ooh, ooh!

MARISHA: (laughs)

LAURA: Hey, you're here now! (snaps fingers) I'm
sorry.

LIAM: Hey, man, no judgment, it means you're just
like me.

LAURA: Yeah, right? Stupid decisions to bring the
people you love back to your side. Very stupid.

LIAM: What the fuck else are you gonna do?

LAURA: Stupid to be a champion, stupid to kill
Orcus, stupid all around.

LIAM: Did you give a timeline?

LAURA: No, no, no! I just kind of said we'd go and
do it. So, it could be, you know. Ah, I just said

we would do it.

LIAM: No, you know, in all seriousness, I have
been waiting for something. I don't know what. But

I'm not running towards it.

LAURA: (laughs)

LIAM: I think we'll get there.

LAURA: Yeah. Yeah. I have a feeling she pulls our
fate strings anyway.

She'll make sure we get there.

LIAM: (sighs)

LAURA: Mine's connected to yours. Wherever you go,
I go. Unless it's, you know--

LIAM: I start to cry a little bit.

LAURA: (laughs) Aw! I'm glad you're back.

LIAM: I don't say anything.

MATT: You hear what sounds like a whip crack of
thunder.

SAM: (gasps)

MATT: As you glance over your shoulder and watch
as Grog with the Titanstone Knuckles

skips a stone so hard--

(all laugh)

MATT: -- that it shatters into multiple pieces upon
making contact with the water.

ASHLEY: (claps) Grog!

LAURA: (claps) Grog!

TALIESIN: (slow claps) I can die happy now that I
saw that.

LAURA: That was amazing!

ASHLEY: That was cool!

MARISHA: That was awesome!

TRAVIS: Is that a record?

MARISHA: Yeah!

TALIESIN: It may be.

ASHLEY: Probably.

TRAVIS: Wow.

LAURA: I write ten on a sheet of paper and hold it
up.

(all laugh)

TRAVIS: Where'd you get that paper from?

LAURA: I have it in my bag.

ASHLEY: (laughs)

TARVIS: That's amazing.

LAURA: I know.

LIAM: I think you just hit Whitestone.

(all laugh)

TALIESIN: I'm showing Pike the jewelry I'm
bringing back. So, since I can't give it to you

now, I'm just modeling it.

ASHLEY: Oh, it's--

TALIESIN: It's a little hand thing, it's got some
tie things.

ASHLEY: (gasps) Percy, it's beautiful! I want it
now.

TALIESIN: I don't know if that will go well.

LAURA: It will fall off of your form.

TALIESIN: Patience!

LIAM: Does it sink through-- slowly through the
Jello?

TALIESIN: I'll clean it off.

(all laugh)

MATT: As the afternoon comes to a close and the
sun slowly sets on the distant ocean horizon,

the lights begin to brighten anew to usher in the
eveningscape of Vesrah. A similar gathering of

the people of Vesrah that you celebrated with the
evening before comes to life, even more vibrant

and excited at the tale of an Aramente completed.
As this is transpiring, you guys are brought in,

food is prepared--

MARISHA: I'm in my fancy clothes, by the way.

MATT: Okay, yeah, fair enough. You guys-- wherever
you can, as you guys--

LAURA: Ooh, seashell bras.

LIAM: I'm in the Deathwalker's Ward.

(all laugh)

LAURA: With salt crusted on it.

MARISHA: Yeah, it's still a little soggy and
damp.

MATT: As you guys are getting ready and brought
into this, and people are beginning to come up and

congratulate you, bringing their kids up to shake
the hands of the future Voice of the Tempest, you

watch as a group of figures appears on the
outskirts of the light in this central meeting

area. You glance over and watch as all of a sudden
the nervousness kicks in, and everyone turns and

looks, as there, dipping into the light, you see
Captain Adella and the crew going, "Okay, so we've

"been waiting for quite a while and it looks like
you're having a party without us.

"So. Mind if we join in?"

MARISHA: Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, come on!

MATT: "Told you!"

TALIESIN: Pour.

MARISHA: Toss a drink, yeah.

MATT: And the rest of the crew comes in, of the
Drensala Vis.

LAURA: What about the prisoner? Is he still on
board?

MATT: "Oh yeah, no, we're leaving that fucker on
the ship. We're not taking him here."

LAURA: All right.

MATT: "So. Everything went fine, I suppose?"

LIAM: Peachy-peachy.

MATT: "Great."

MARISHA: Right as rain.

MATT: "Fantastic. Going back soon, then, huh?

ALL: Yes.

MATT: "Great, first light of the morning, let's
get back."

TRAVIS: Are you in a rush?

MATT: "No, but the longer we're here, the more
time we spend out wandering amongst the reef with

"these people." And she glances around, and as you
look around, you do see a very comparably bohemian

lifestyle of the water ashari.

LIAM: Eyes Wide Shut?

MATT: Not quite that level.

MARISHA: What's your definition of bohemian?

MATT: Yeah!

LIAM: Eyes Wide Shut.

(all laugh)

MATT: I'm so glad you don't live in Los Villas.

SAM: Like Venice people? Like beachy hippies.

MATT: Yeah, it's very Venice Beach.

TALIESIN: Like Labyrinth muppets, maybe. Like the
creepy head Labyrinth muppets.

LIAM: Everybody looks like the Raven Queen.

(all laugh)

MATT: But yeah. Drinks are had, the party
celebrates, and then eventually Uvenda begins to

approach, and everyone gets quiet, and she walks
up towards you, Keyleth, and reaches out to take

your hand, both of your hands in hers. "In
completing the trial of the water ashari, I impart

"unto you now a gift. Something I, as far as I
understand, have only been around long enough to

"learn. But seeing the strength that you hold,
perhaps you can wield this as well."

MARISHA: Okay?

MATT: As she takes your hands, she folds them over
each other, and she encloses them in her tiny

gnomish grasp. "Close your eyes." As you close
your eyes, and you can hear the hush of people

silencing each other around. "Now, the form of one
who protects the elements is malleable. You can

"transcend this particular form and become the
beasts of nature. You can become the creatures of

"the elements that we safeguard. However, those
who've mastered the journey that you have? They

"can become so much more. Now walk with me." And
she tugs on your hand. "Keep your eyes closed, but

"walk with me." And you guys watch as she backs up
and leads Keyleth out of the pavilion, out into

the darkness in the center of the main
thoroughfare of Vesrah. The crowd wanders along,

if you guys want to shuffle with. She leads
Keyleth out, eyes still closed, and as soon as

people start crowding in, she goes, (huff of
breath), and the guards hold people back and leave a

wide berth around. "Now. Keyleth. You've
encountered many beasts, many dangerous and

"powerful creatures from all walks of the planes.
Pick one."

SAM: (gasps)

MATT: "What do you see in your mind?"

MARISHA: I think of the goristro, Yenk.

MATT: "Imagine what it's like to be filled with
strength, to be filled with the power. Envision

"the horns, the snarl, the barrel-like fists." And
you guys watch as Keyleth's form suddenly begins

to shift and grow and where once was a half-elf
Keyleth, you now see, towering above this tiny

gnome, eyes still closed, a massive goristro.

TRAVIS: No fucking way.

TALIESIN: Oh, well, that's disconcerting.

MATT: Everyone goes (gasps) and as her hands leave
yours, you feel something shift and change and you

hear the slightly more distant voice of Uvenda
say, "Now open your eyes." And you look down--

MARISHA: (screams)

MATT: (laughs)

TALIESIN: That's less disconcerting.

LAURA: Is she stuck like that?

MATT: "No, no, she's fine. This is under her
control."

LAURA: Okay.

LIAM: She's fine.

MATT: "This incantation is yours now. Be what you
wish. Use these creatures."

MARISHA: I turn into a beholder.

MATT: (swoosh) You watch as all her body--

TRAVIS: Shut the fuck up.

MATT: -- shifts and becomes--

TRAVIS: Shut up.

MATT: -- a meaty mass with a singular eye and many
eyestalks and you watch as everyone takes two

steps back (gasps)--

TRAVIS: You can not do that now!

LAURA: What is this?! What is this?!

What the fuck?!

TRAVIS: Are you serious?!

MARISHA: (laughs)

LAURA: What is this?!

MARISHA: I am a golden god!

(all laugh)

MATT: "Your shape is yours to change, Keyleth."

MARISHA: I change into-- adult bronze dragon.

MATT: You watch as the beholder that's looking
around excitedly suddenly shifts and grows two

large bronze wings--

ASHLEY: (laughs)

MATT: -- claws emerge and the head extends.

TALIESIN: Oh dear.

LIAM: That is really hot.

LAURA: But like, that's really big. How?

MARISHA: I do a victory lap (whoosh).

MATT: (whoosh whoosh)

LAURA: How is this possible?

TRAVIS: Can she do the stuff they do?

LAURA: Is she like a dragon for real? Does
anybody--?

MATT: Uvenda turns to you as you're shouting this,
everyone's kinda watching her fly over, you can

see the little bit of light that glows from the
city occasionally reflect off the metallic

underbody of the dragon as it circles overhead in
the dark night sky. Uvenda turns to you and goes,

"Ah yes. Don't worry. These forms are hers to
control."

MARISHA: I turn and-- brass dragons have fire
breath, right? Do they have fire breath?

MATT: I'm pretty sure.

LAURA: No.

TALIESIN: Very frightening.

MARISHA: I do-- into the air, I just go (kwoosh)

MATT: I'm gonna look this up real fast so the
internet doesn't hate me.

MARISHA: See what happens.

TRAVIS: You kill everyone on the ground.

(all laugh)

MATT: Yeah, it is fire breath. So you watch as she
flies off, she shoots forth this burning hot,

bright jet of singular focused fire, not a
napalm-level red dragon cone breath, but a

singular focused beam of burning fire that just
lights up all of Vesrah around. You see the

hundreds of the denizens around go, "Oh!" as their
faces glow against the dark sky around you.

LAURA: I feel far less nervous about this Orcus
thing now.

ASHLEY: Yeah.

LIAM: What was that?

LAURA: Ha. (laughs)

TRAVIS and ASHLEY: Wow.

LAURA: That's insane.

MATT: Uvenda's just looking up and smiling,
clasping her hands together.

TRAVIS: Who needs a fucking magic carpet now?

MARISHA: Oh yeah, yeah, yeah!

TRAVIS: We got a jumbo jet.

MARISHA: I come back down and I come down and I'm
like (animal noises).

LAURA: Can't you talk as a dragon? Can't dragons
talk?

MARISHA: Oh, that's right.

TRAVIS: (laughs)

MARISHA: I'm so used to Beast Shape!

(all laugh)

MARISHA: I'm so used to not being able to fucking
talk!

LIAM: She's gesturing and I'm already climbing on.

TRAVIS: (animal noises) Oh she can change into a
dragon but she's-- yeah.

ASHLEY: If I touch her, does she feel like a
dragon?

MATT: Yeah. You feel the hard scales across her
hide.

MARISHA: So I can talk?

MATT: Yeah.

MARISHA: Hey guys! Guys, check it out! Ah, Ah.

LAURA: I like the idea that it's just like your
regular-ass voice coming out of--

MARISHA: Yeah. I'm like, ah guys! Got little
antlers.

TALIESIN: This went so FernGully so quickly.

MATT: Yeah. It's Keyleth's voice but it's deeper,
it's resonating, it quakes the sand on the ground

near her when she speaks.

TRAVIS: (deep voice) Hey guys.

LAURA: What the fuck. What is this?

TRAVIS: (deep voice) It's me, Keyleth.

LAURA: Like, this is amazing, Keyleth.

MARISHA: This is-- I don't know.

SAM: (whispering) She's amazing.

LAURA: We should have completed your Aramente a
lot sooner.

TRAVIS: Yeah.

MARISHA: You wanna go for a ride?

TRAVIS: (deep voice) I'm so happy right now.

LAURA: Yes!

ASHLEY: Yeah!

MARISHA: Okay, all right. I pick up the
half-elves.

LAURA: And Pike!

TRAVIS: Hey, hey!

LAURA: Pike wanted to go too.

MARISHA: And Pike!

ASHLEY: I did want to go. I want to go.

LIAM: Don't let the jello fall apart.

TALIESIN: There's always room for jello.

ASHLEY: It's fine if I fall apart. It happens.

MATT: Okay, as the tinier folks step onto the back
of Keyleth-dragon, they take off into the sky. You

watch as a bunch of the children now begin to try
and line up now.

ALL: Aw.

MATT: And the parents are like, mm-hm.

MARISHA: Yes.

TRAVIS: I am clearly moving ahead of them to the
front of the fucking line.

(all laugh)

MATT: As Grog forces himself to the front of the
line--

ASHLEY: I was here first.

MATT: -- like palms a child and just pushes it
back, like Old School, just (pff) out of the way.

TRAVIS: Yep.

MARISHA: And I totally spend the next hour giving
joy-rides to anyone who wants to.

MATT: And yeah, most of the folks of Vesrah begin
to start giving in to it--

MARISHA: Dragon rides.

LAURA: Wow.

MATT: -- taking dragon rides from Keyleth over the
night sky (laughs).

TRAVIS and ASHLEY: Wow.

TRAVIS: Holy shit.

MARISHA: I leveled up.

LAURA: That's pretty fucking sick.

MATT: Yeah, and in fact, I'll go look at the
logistics of this, but after that kraken battle,

most everybody leveled up on that.

LAURA: Yeah!

MATT: I'll send that out tonight via email to you
guys.

TALIESIN: Oh god.

LAURA: Sweet!

MARISHA: So that's Shapechange, right?

MATT: You have Shapechange as one of a possible
9th-level spell.

SAM: What is Shapechange?

LIAM: That!

SAM: You can just become anything?

LAURA: It's a ninth-level spell.

MARISHA: I can change into anything that's a
challenge rating of my level or lower.

SAM: Once?

LAURA: Wait.

SAM: Or constantly?

MARISHA: For an hour.

LAURA: Dragons are your level?

MARISHA: Adult dragons are.

MATT: An adult one. Not an ancient.

LAURA: Okay.

MARISHA: Yeah.

SAM: Wow.

LAURA: Wow, still, adult dragon is like, right on
par.

MATT: It's not bad.

LIAM: Guys, we've been playing this campaign for a
while.

(all laugh)

TRAVIS: This is amazing.

MARISHA: (sighs) I wasn't sure if I was ever gonna
get here.

TRAVIS: Fucking amazing.

MARISHA: (heavy sigh) Yeah I can. It's for an hour
and I can keep shapechanging into different things

for an hour.

TRAVIS: You can whip those beholder eyes at
people?

MARISHA: Yes, I can.

LAURA: Oh my god.

LIAM: Holy shit.

SAM: Wow.

LAURA: And you can do all the things that they can
do?

TRAVIS: Is it at will or is it a random roll for
which eye does what?

MARISHA: It's like Beast Shape, so I keep my
intellect, my wisdom, and my charisma, but I take

on their physical stats--

LAURA: Ah!

MARISHA: -- and their abilities.

ASHLEY: You're a beast.

TRAVIS: And same thing, like you drop the shape's
hit points and then it reverts back to you.

MARISHA: Yep.

MATT: You don't get legendary actions--

TRAVIS: (laughs)

MARISHA: I know!

MATT: -- or lair actions but you get all the rest
of the abilities

and physical attributes of the creature.

SAM: Wow.

LAURA: I'd say that's pretty fucking sick.

TRAVIS: Oh my god.

LIAM: Forget about strawberry, how about
raw-berry!

(all laugh)

LAURA: Ah man.

TALIESIN: Juice Springsteen.

ASHLEY: Holy cow.

MATT: So eventually, as you feel the spell begin
to dissipate, the shapechange coming to an end,

you bring the last cluster of children and Grog,
who has ridden now seven times.

(all laugh)

LIAM: (deep voice) Whee!

TRAVIS: Ah!

MATT: As the night draws to a close--

MARISHA: As the spell fades, I just give Grog a
big hug and just kinda cry tears of joy into his

chest for a little bit.

TRAVIS: Yeah.

MATT: And yeah, reverting back to your form, the
party comes to an end. Uvenda comes up to you as

you come back to your form and says, "I'm proud of
you."

MARISHA: Thank you. Truly.

MATT: "Now, return to your people victorious. You
achieved what your mother could not and her memory

"lives on in you."

MARISHA: Thank you.

MATT: And she turns--

MARISHA: I will keep her-- Thanks. That's all.

MATT: "Good night." And she begins to walk off
with her staff. You guys are able to rest for the

evening, prepare yourselves for the following
day's journey, however you wish that to be. So you

get benefits of a long rest back. So you get half
of your hit dice back, you are healed to full, you

get your spells, you're good.

TRAVIS: That was such a great party.

(all laugh)

MARISHA: That was a good party.

ASHLEY: Did you have so much fun, Grog?

TRAVIS: Yeah, I rode the dragon all night.

(all laugh)

TRAVIS: It was great.

MARISHA: That's true. I see Percy really quick.
Are you still concerned?

TALIESIN: Yeah, well, yes.

MARISHA: (laughs)

TALIESIN: Congratulations.

MARISHA: Wouldn't be you--

TALIESIN: No.

MARISHA: I--if you weren't concerned.

TALIESIN: No, and thank you for not being--
somebody has to be all right. I mean, I'm fine,

I'm fine.

MARISHA: Wouldn't be here without you, or the
others. You know that, right?

TALIESIN: I do.

MARISHA: I can't do this alone and I-- To answer
your question from yesterday, I think the problem

of this Aramente is that it shows you the
components of what you need to be a leader, but

being a leader could take a lifetime to master. If
you even can master such a thing. So lots still to

go, this isn't the end.

TALIESIN: I know.

MARISHA: And I hope you stay with me.

TALIESIN: I will, to the end.

MARISHA: I need you.

TALIESIN: I need you, too.

But we're not all going to make it.

MARISHA: Well, let's at least go home for now. Is
that okay? Is that enough for now?

TALIESIN: It certainly is. I am happy to try. But
things are only going to get more complicated.

Congratulations. That's very impressive.

MARISHA: I feel like once you can turn into a
dragon, things only get more complicated.

TALIESIN: (laughs)

MARISHA: That's, yeah.

TALIESIN: I will thankfully never know.

MARISHA: All right, let's go.

LIAM: After she left our room to go find him, I
start to suit up, and I'm looking in a full-length

mirror at the new fucking kraken beak gouges down
the front of me. And I notice that my two notes

are out of place. So I'm going to shove them back
into the folds that they're supposed to be in. And

spend a couple minutes to button all the way up
and leave the room.

MATT: Okay.

TRAVIS: Can I find Tary?

MATT: Yeah.

SAM: Oh, good morning.

TRAVIS: No, it's like real late, right?

SAM: I don't know. Is it?

MATT: You haven't quite gone to bed yet.

SAM: Oh!

MATT: It's late evening.

SAM: Good evening!

TRAVIS: Jesus, that fight knocked you goofy,
didn't it?

SAM: I have not been that close to death ever
before. But I feel like in a way I learned

something from the experience.

TRAVIS: What?

(all laugh)

SAM: That's fair.

(all laugh)

SAM: Tell me, I saw you up there fighting.

TRAVIS: Mm-hm.

SAM: You were brave and strong.

TRAVIS: Yep. Yep.

SAM: We were duking it out, you and me, 'til the
very end of that fight and well, as one seasoned

warrior to another--

TRAVIS: Mm-hm.

SAM: Do you have any tips? Any notes for me? Any
thoughts to improve my warfare skills? Should I

move more? Should I think of cool one-liners to
yell out as I hit my enemies?

TRAVIS: Ooh, yeah. That always helps. Right?
Someone like you, I would probably stay on the

outside. You got a little in the crunch zone,
right? You seem to have

a good range on your weapons.

SAM: Well, yes, but my rod is best at close-up
action.

TRAVIS: Most rods are good close-up but, you know,
if you could stay on the outside with it, maybe

you'll have better success? But, I wanted to give
you something.

SAM: Oh!

TRAVIS: Yeah. It's like a last resort, right?
Cause you went like eee! And it was not good.

SAM: No.

TRAVIS:So I want to give you a magic egg. And I
reach into the bag of holding and I take out a

basilisk egg that I have no fucking idea how old
it is. But, it's in there. There are six of them.

MATT: It's old.

TRAVIS: This egg is very, very special.

SAM: Oh my god.

MATT: It's about this big and the outside of it
has this very layered stone look to it. Almost

like when plates shift and you watch old sediment
stone stick out. And you can see the different

types of stone layers, geologically. It's that
kind of a texture down the side of it and it's

like a dark gray, almost blue color.

TRAVIS: This egg comes from a very ancient magical
beast. If you find yourself in a dire need. Like

in that last fight.

SAM: Yes. Yes.

TRAVIS: If you break it and consume its contents,
you will be granted immense power.

SAM: Really?

TRAVIS: Indeed. But only in times of great need. I
trust I don't have to emphasize

how important that is.

MATT: Grog, make a deception check.

TRAVIS: Shit! Come on big whammy.

TALIESIN: I'm so proud of you, Travis. However
this goes, I'm so proud of you.

TRAVIS: Yes! 15.

MATT: Make an insight check, Taryon.

LIAM: You're not Scanlan.

SAM: Eight.

(all laugh)

TRAVIS: I out-rolled somebody!

LIAM: With your mind!

TALIESIN: You used your mind.

MATT: This is a mighty gift.

SAM: Adding it to my list. Basilisk-- wait, I
don't know what it is. It's just an egg.

A magical egg.

MATT: A magical egg of power. To be consumed.

MARISHA: It's like a Kinder Egg. There's a toy
inside.

MATT: Kind of. Yeah.

LIAM: Except it's full of sulfurous shit.

TRAVIS: That shit is rank.

LAURA: I imagine that I've been introducing Pike
to the whole crew.

Since you like to sail so much.

ASHLEY: Yeah. Hey, crew.

SAM: Thank you.

TRAVIS: You're welcome.

MATT: Okay.

ASHLEY: Is Doty, Dottie, his robot around?

LAURA: Doodie.

MATT: The robot stays with him when he is told
otherwise not to. So, it's hanging with him. When

you're introduced to the crew, they're all your
ilk. They're all salty, sarcastic folk. Captain

Adella and you could-- they're all taken aback by
your strangely-not-really-physically-there form.

But, after a bit of trading some tales about a few
interesting at-sea endeavors, you guys get along

swimmingly and it's a fast friendship between you
and Captain Adella.

ASHLEY: Fantastic.

LAURA: She's fucking cool.

ASHLEY: She seems rad.

LAURA: Yeah.

MATT: So, what're you doing?

ASHLEY: Okay. I'm going to go over to Tary.

MATT: Okay. Taryon, after you're granted this
majestic egg, as you're walking back to your

homestead, the glowing gnome approaches you.

SAM: Oh! Hello.

ASHLEY: Hello again. I have a request of your
robot. Your Doty. Am I saying this right?

SAM: My personal manservant.

ASHLEY: Your personal manservant.

SAM: Yes.

ASHLEY: Could he draw some things for me?

SAM: In Gnome, I say, absolutely m'lady. Whatever
you would request.

MATT: You are a m'lady.

MARISHA: We totally called it.

MATT: Continue.

ASHLEY: And in Common, I say back, thank you so
much. Doty,

would you mind drawing portraits for me?

MATT: Looks back to you, Taryon.

SAM: Do whatever the young lady asks.

MATT: Pulls the book out.

ASHLEY: Could you draw some portraits of this
group? Of Grog. Of Vax and Vex.

Keyleth and Percy.

SAM: Just a little bit of a note, here. He doesn't
know who any of those people are.

ASHLEY: Okay. So the people that I point to. Could
you just draw each of them please?

MATT: Everyone's kind of scattered to the four
winds right now.

ASHLEY: Shit.

LAURA: I'm there.

SAM: I'll help you point them out to Doty.

MATT: Yeah, Vex is there.

ASHLEY: Okay.

MATT: Yeah, you point out to where they're all
staying and--

MARISHA: We're gathering up anyway. We're walking
over.

ASHLEY: When you're all done, just bring them to
me. Thank you so much.

SAM: Is there any particular style you'd like them
to be drawn in?

ASHLEY: Just as realistic as possible.

SAM: Realism. All right.

ASHLEY: Realism.

MATT: All right.

ASHLEY: And I say, thank you, in Gnomish. In
Gnome.

SAM: I say, you're warcome in Gnome.

(all laugh)

TALIESIN: I've been waiting for it.

ASHLEY: Okay. That's all.

MATT: All right. So as you all go to rest for the
evening, Pike, the granted presence here through

Sarenrae's will begins to withdraw. Her strength
through the divine gate to keep you in this,

seemingly drained. You sense that you'll be
returning back to Emon until you're retrieved by

your allies here.

ASHLEY: Okay.

MATT: So, you'll only have a short time. As the
rest of you guys go to rest for the evening and

you all go to sleep, Percy, Keyleth, Vax, Vex, and
Grog, I need you guys to roll perception checks.

TRAVIS: I got this.

SAM: I'm just doing this all night.

MARISHA: Don't fuck me, Gil.

TRAVIS: Are we going Gil? Yeah. Don't fuck me,
Gil.

MARISHA: That's not bad.

SAM: You got to try Gil.

TALIESIN: No! I'm going with that one.

SAM: I'm negating that. Roll Gil.

TALIESIN: You don't get to negate that one.

SAM: I'm negating it. Roll Gil.

TRAVIS: 19.

MATT: Oh!

TRAVIS: A natural 19.

LAURA: 29.

TALIESIN: No I'm going with my first one. You
don't get to negate my roll.

LIAM: 22.

SAM: He rolled a three.

MARISHA: 23.

TALIESIN: I did not roll--

MATT: Wow!

TALIESIN: I'm going with my first roll because
he's a jerk.

MATT: All right. What was the first one?

TALIESIN: 27. Jerk.

MATT: Okay.

SAM: Your friends all rolled with Gil.

MATT: Throughout the evening--

MARISHA: Rolling with Gil.

MATT: At some point in the night, each of you
individually wakes up in the wee hours as a sound

rouses you from your slumber as you glance over in
one of the nearby open windowed walls. You see a

large, metallic man-shape appear. And just start
feverishly sketching while staring at you.

(all laugh)

MATT: One, by one, by one, by one.

LAURA: As our faces are like--

SAM: He likes to watch.

LIAM: That was Tary's fucking automaton.

MARISHA: I'm not dreaming. I'm not dreaming.

TALIESIN: Okay, yeah.

TRAVIS: Does anyone try to talk to the automaton?

MARISHA: Oh, jeez. Oh, jeez.

TALIESIN: I think we'd just stay perfectly still?

LAURA: Yeah.

(all laugh)

TALIESIN: And try and lift our chin and push
forward.

LAURA: 'Til it looks like a good angle, at least.

LIAM: I slowly pull the sheet up--

MARISHA: Yeah, higher, yeah.

TRAVIS: I pull the sheet a little lower.

(all laugh)

MATT: And Doty continues sketching, adjusting to
the new positions.

LIAM: Moves an adjacent piece of paper next to it
and keeps going.

MATT: Keeps taping them on. All right.

ASHLEY: Is he done?

MATT: I will say--

ASHLEY: I'm just afraid I'm gonna (whoosh).

MATT: I will say, for the sake of narrative of
this, the energy will carry

you through to the morning.

SAM: Yes.

ASHLEY: Okay.

MATT: So, upon everyone waking, and gathering
again before heading however way you wish, the

crew is by their boats to return to the ship,
Uvenda is waiting to see you off, and, as you all

begin to gather, you watch Pike as she approaches,
her form flickering in the familiar visual of a

temporary time before she has to return--

LAURA: Oh no!

ASHLEY: It's okay.

MATT: As you approach to speak to everybody,
suddenly (grinding robot movement) from the side,

Doty seems to just slam into view, like some weird
hype man.

TRAVIS: A hype man! Yeah yeah!

MATT: And immediately just hands you a metallic
fist filled with pages torn out of the tome.

ASHLEY: Thank you so much.

MATT: And then runs off towards Taryon.

ASHLEY: Tary. Come here.

SAM: Who, me?

ASHLEY: Yes, you.

TALIESIN: Couldn't be.

SAM: Hello.

ASHLEY: Hello. So, I figured you would have a
little bit of an easier time if you know the names

of the people that you're spending time with. I
had him make you some, I don't know, maybe some

flash cards. So, I take out a quill. I hold up a
photo. Who is this?

MATT: What you see before you, is a very
beautifully realistically drawn image of a female

half-elven druid, and a male half-elven rogue
paladin, both clutching bed-sheets, going--

(all laugh)

SAM: That's amazing. In the same drawing?

MATT: Yeah.

SAM: Oh! But how did-- I mean, they would have had
to have been--

ASHLEY: I didn't realize he was going to draw them
in their sleep. So, let's just--

LIAM: Please, go through every picture, please!

SAM: Oh. I-- so many more questions than answers.

(all laugh)

MARISHA: It hurts!

SAM: One of those two was dead yesterday, and yet
they still found time to-- well. The one on the

left, I lovingly refer to her as Antlers. She is
the most powerful and leader of the group.

ASHLEY: All those things are true, but take this
quill. Now, next to her picture,

please write 'Keyleth'.

SAM: Doty? You heard her.

ASHLEY: No! No. No, no. No.

MATT: Doty stops when she says no.

ASHLEY: You are going to write it down.

TRAVIS: Mama Pike!

ASHLEY: Do you know how to write?

MARISHA: Mama Pike.

SAM: Of course I know how to write. I'm an
educated man.

ASHLEY: Okay, I would--

TRAVIS: Oh god, how does he know how to write?

LAURA: (gasps)

SAM: In what language?

ASHLEY: What language do you prefer?

SAM: I prefer Gnome when I'm with you.

ASHLEY: Okay.

LIAM: Old habits die hard.

TRAVIS: Yeah, yeah!

SAM: It's good practice.

TRAVIS: Little bleed-through.

ASHLEY: Okay. So write down 'Keyleth.'

SAM: Odd vowel sounds in your weird language.
Okay! Key-leth.

ASHLEY: The man laying next to her--

SAM: Mm-hm?

ASHLEY: Do you know his name?

SAM: Little Elf Boy.

ASHLEY: I would never say that again. His name is
Vax.

SAM: With a 'B'? Like Bax?

ASHLEY: With a 'V', as in--

SAM: Vagina?

ASHLEY: Vagina.

(all laugh)

TALIESIN: Manna from heaven. Manna from heaven.

SAM: Got it.

LAURA: Oh god.

SAM: 'X'. All right.

ASHLEY: Next up.

SAM: You know what, that one sounds familiar, I
feel like he's introduced himself to me.

ASHLEY: Okay. Next up, who's this?

MATT: This is another pair. (laughs) This one--

TRAVIS: I'm so happy.

MATT: --less shy. It appears to be a human male,
looking confused, with glasses pressed up above

the top of the forehead, and a half-elven,
dark-haired, female, on top--

LAURA: (laughs)

MATT: -- glancing back with a 'don't you fucking
dare' expression.

MARISHA: Yeah.

(all laugh)

SAM: Oh! Oh, well. I--

ASHLEY: Yes, I know, you're learning so much.

SAM: May I, for a moment?

ASHLEY: Sure!

SAM: Do you think this is up? Or--

ASHLEY: You could have it any way you like it.

(all laugh)

LIAM: Oh my god.

SAM: I've read about that. All right.

ASHLEY: Just looking at the faces, then, who do
you think they are?

SAM: The happy one is Little Elf Girl--

ASHLEY: Ooh. I would definitely not ever say that
to her.

SAM: All right. All right. What's her real name?

ASHLEY: Her name is Vex.

SAM: All right. Vex.

ASHLEY: And you know that her and Vax are twin
brother and sister?

SAM: I could tell by the bone structure--

ASHLEY: Okay.

SAM: -- and the contempt.

(all laugh)

TALIESIN: Oh! Oh.

ASHLEY: Now. (laughs) The man laying next to her,
what is his name?

SAM: Percival Fredrickstein Von Musel Korrolo de
Rolo the third.

(all laugh)

TALIESIN: Well done!

SAM: Almost! Almost!

TRAVIS: Oh man!

SAM: Almost! Almost! Klossowski de Rolo the
third!

TALIESIN: Close enough!

SAM: Percival--

TALIESIN: Close enough!

SAM: --Percival Fredrickstein Von Musel--

TALIESIN: Muselix.

MARISHA: (laughs) Von Muselix.

SAM: Argh, so close!

LIAM: You know what? The Klossowski, Klossowski--

SAM: Klossowski de Rolo the third!

TALIESIN: It's a little--

LAURA: Gets ya every time.

LIAM: That was bullshit. That was bullshit.

TALIESIN: That all depends on how much whiskey.
That's fair.

ASHLEY: Please write it down.

TALIESIN: That's a whiskey-based pronunciation.

SAM: That one I'm going to do in Common.

(all laugh)

SAM: And you know what? I'll just abbreviate the
middle part.

TALIESIN: That's okay.

SAM: P... de Rolo.

LIAM: What's Percy's rapper name?

ASHLEY: Great. Two more to go. Who's this?

MATT: Well see, all right. This one is Pike, in
her gnomish form, still wearing her armor in her

astral form, looking like she realized she didn't
phrase it properly when she made the request. And

being the last one sketched, and that moment her
expression says, 'Oh no.'

(all laugh)

TRAVIS: Oh no.

SAM: Before I answer, uh, (accented) answer--

MARISHA: An-swer.

SAM: -- just a quick process question, here.

ASHLEY: Okay.

SAM: In the other images, there was some revelry,
some intercourse happening. Is that-- now that I'm

a full-fledged member, do I--

(all laugh)

SAM: Do I get to partake? Is this how it works
with everyone? Or is it just certain members--

TRAVIS: Holy shit.

SAM: Is it a hierarchy? Is it some sort of a--

TRAVIS: Oh god.

SAM: -- a cultish--

TRAVIS: Oh my god.

SAM: -- thing, where you have to prove yourself
sexually and in battle, or-- how does that work?

TRAVIS: I can't even handle this.

SAM: Or is it-- am I misreading this?

ASHLEY: You know, I think you should just continue
to try to explore that.

(all laugh)

ASHLEY: Because--

TRAVIS: Wow.

ASHLEY: It would just be great just to see what
happens. You never know,

Tary, you just never know.

SAM: All right.

ASHLEY: I would never tell you no.

LAURA: (gasps)

ASHLEY: No! Not me--

(all laugh)

ASHLEY: Let me rephrase. I would never tell you no
to not trying with the people of the group.

SAM: So you're saying that membership has its
privileges?

ASHLEY: Mayhaps.

LAURA: Oh god.

ASHLEY: Do you know my name?

SAM: Daughter of Sarenrae, I'm guessing.

ASHLEY: No. It's Pike.

SAM: Hm. Pike.

ASHLEY: And last, but certainly not least--

MATT: Whoa.

SAM: Oh boy.

(all laugh)

LIAM: Narrate it, Matt.

SAM: Doty, she said realism.

MATT: (creaks)

SAM: Really?

(all laugh)

MATT: And there, in a classic Michelangelo-style
pose, one knee cocked to the side, the beard

fluffed, the rippling scarred muscles, and the
obvious half-giant side of Grog Strongjaw before

you on the page.

LIAM: That is not a picture of a goliath and a
halfling, by the way.

SAM: I mean, how does he walk?

TALIESIN: With confidence and pride.

TRAVIS: Pick a leg.

ASHLEY: Yes.

SAM: Wow. Wow.

ASHLEY: I know.

SAM: That is just-- that is primal.

ASHLEY: He took some artistic liberties with this
one.

SAM: Huh.

LAURA: Ho ho ho!

LIAM: Made it smaller.

SAM: All right. I've been taking to calling him
Jumbo, or the Big Guy.

ASHLEY: Okay.

SAM: And it seems that I was correct.

(all laugh)

ASHLEY: Well, this--

MATT: This joke went too far.

ASHLEY: -- this is Grog.

SAM: Say that again?

ASHLEY: Grog.

SAM: Grog. Okay.

ASHLEY: And that is my very best friend.

SAM: You know, I have learned that he is a
confident ally, and a friend to me as well. And I

will do my best to protect him in battle in your
absence.

ASHLEY: Well (laughs) thank you. That is very,
very kind of you. So, before I leave, my request

is that you look at these every night before bed
until you learn them.

TRAVIS: I love it so much.

LIAM: Love Mama Pike.

SAM: Can you-- in this form, can you see me all
the time?

ASHLEY: Yes.

SAM: I will.

ASHLEY: So I will know if you're not looking at
your flashcards every night.

(all laugh)

ASHLEY: This is so stupid.

LIAM: This is Dungeons & Dragons, man!

TALIESIN: This is amazing.

LIAM: This is Dungeons & Dragons!

SAM: Milady, I swear it by my name, I will do so
as you request. Thank you for saving one of my

allies today, and wherever you are in the world,
know that we are fighting the good fight, and I

will keep your friends safe. Your friends, Greg--

ASHLEY: Nope.

SAM: -- Vox, Vox, Kiko--

TALIESIN: Kiko works.

SAM: -- and Percival Frederickstein Von Musel--

TALIESIN: Let it roll.

SAM: -- Klossowski De Rolo the third.

TALIESIN: That's pretty good.

(all cheer)

SAM: Ah.

ASHLEY: I realise that was off of memory, so I'm
gonna let it slide, but yes.

SAM: I have a few more nights of studying to do.

ASHLEY: You do. Okay. It was wonderful to spend
time with you. I'm gonna just--

I'm gonna go back over here.

SAM: All right.

ASHLEY: Goodbye.

SAM: Serf trervles.

(all laugh)

MARISHA and TALIESIN: (laugh) Serf trervles.

TRAVIS: Holy shit.

MATT: I did not expect it to go that far.

SAM: (laughs)

TRAVIS: My fucking--

TALIESIN: Wow.

TRAVIS: -- my ears hurt.

LIAM: I have a fresh new set of six-pack abs after
the last ten minutes.

MATT: Seriously.

SAM: We gotta get Ashley back. We gotta bring her
back.

MATT: All right, so as you guys get over--

SAM: We gotta get Ashley back.

ASHLEY: Sorry, that went a little bit longer than
I thought.

MATT: No! No!

TALIESIN: It was so good!

MATT: You know--

LAURA: That was awesome.

MATT: In Doty being literal, it lead to all of
that joy. Holy shit. So. As you guys all gather on

the beaches in the late morning of Vesrah, Adella
and her crew are waiting at the boats to return to

the ship. And Uvenda and a few other folks there,
you see Durent, you see Yulan, the little boy that

met you when you first got here, and a few of the
other folks that you met that evening, all

waiting, and as you approach, Uvenda nods, and,
"It has been an absolute pleasure to have you, Vox

"Machina, at the sides of Keyleth, to come and
spend time with our people, to celebrate the

"completion of a difficult journey. I would request
before you leave, to please return the goggles and

"neck pieces that we lent you."

MARISHA: Yeah.

LIAM: It's like an IMAX theater.

MATT: Kind of. They go and collect the pieces from
you as you go on. "And best of luck in your future

"journeys. If we, the Ashari of Vesrah, can be of
aid to you in the future, please let us know."

MARISHA: Thank you for everything. I'm sure we'll
be in contact soon.

MATT: Kaitiyaki.

MARISHA: Kaitiyaki.

MATT: And they turn around and start walking their
way back to the center of Vesrah. Some of the kids

looking over their shoulders, kind of waiting to
see what you're going to do. Adella is waiting

there at the ship,

"All right, so, what's the plan?"

MARISHA: I mean, I totally could Tree Stride us
anywhere, but I kind of want to take the boat

again.

TRAVIS: Yeah, yeah, yeah, we're getting all our
money's worth out of the boat.

MARISHA: Yeah, we paid a lot, yeah.

TRAVIS: What are we gonna do?

MARISHA: To Emon for now?

LIAM: Well, Hotis is going to come for Pickle and
I at some point, but we need to do a little more

homework this time.

LAURA: Where can we study? The Cobalt Reserve? Is
it still standing at all in Emon?

Are there any books left?

MARISHA: We can go see.

LIAM: Gotta go to the liberry.

LAURA: Yeah.

MARISHA: We also haven't looked at any of the
findings from Raishan's cave.

TRAVIS: Oh yeah.

TALIESIN: No, not yet.

TRAVIS: Lots of books to read, real exciting.

MARISHA: Well, let's at least get back to Emon,
that's the main port town.

LAURA: Yeah.

LIAM: It's a starting point.

MARISHA: It's a starting point.

TALIESIN: We can also have them start looking at
the books while we're away, telling us if they

find anything of value.

LAURA: That's true. Probably need to start
studying Orcus as well.

TRAVIS: What?

LIAM: Orcas, orcas, after all of that under-sea--

LAURA: All those killer whales.

LIAM: -- struggle we need to be up to par.

TRAVIS: Ah, know our allies?

TALIESIN: There'll be time on the ship. Let's take
our time, before the Orcas.

MATT: All right. At this point Pike begins to
flicker.

LAURA: No!

ASHLEY: It's okay, I'll see you guys very soon.

LIAM: Jello shot, where you going?

LAURA: Back home?

ASHLEY: Yeah, back home. Jello shot? (laughs)

MARISHA: We're heading to Emon so we'll see you
there, okay?

ASHLEY: Okay, I'll see you soon--

TRAVIS: Wait, quick squeeze!

ASHLEY: Quick squeeze!

MATT: And she vanishes in your grasp.

TRAVIS: Ah, no! Ahh!

MARISHA: No, no, no, she's okay.

SAM: No, no, no.

LAURA: No, no, she's okay, she's fine.

LIAM: Twin on each arm pulling.

MATT: It's not enough.

TALIESIN: It'll be fine, he's just going to make
himself pass out, it'll be just fine.

MARISHA: True.

LIAM: Percy, get over here and pull!

TALIESIN: I want to see, let him sleep it off.

MARISHA: Just let him sleep, let him sleep it
off.

TRAVIS: (wails)

MATT: You guys make your way onto the ship with
Captain Adella at the helm, the boat turns around,

navigates the thin pathway between these exterior
reefs, and eventually to the open seas of Ozmit.

MARISHA: I-- if you're interested, Adella, because
I'm feeling pretty spiffy after--

MATT: She's holding onto the wheel like, "You
worry me already."

MARISHA: Okay, all right, I can control the winds
and give us forwards-facing winds for a solid hour

if you want. You want it? You want a little, turn
this into a speed boat? You know? See how fast it

goes? I don't know what this means, I've just seen
other sailors do it so.

TRAVIS: In a lot of countries it means one thing,
especially when sailors do it.

MATT: "Be my guest."

MARISHA: Okay, I cast fifth-level Control Winds.
I'm going to do just a solid gust behind us for a

good hour.

MATT: Okay, and with this consistently used, you
guys can cut about

half of the travel time back to Emon.

TRAVIS: Nice.

MATT: So what would normally be, depending on
weather, like five, six, seven days,

you get there in three.

LAURA: Nice.

MATT: Through the use of that, your general
Control Weather abilities and stuff-- it's pretty

fantastic. Thinking in the back of your head as
you travel that while you've completed your

Aramente, it is not done, you still have to return
to complete your Aramente. You guys eventually

find your way, coming into the docks on the
western side of Emon, the city still in the throes

of rebuilding, restructuring, it's busy, people
are returning, flocking to the streets. It's very

warm and welcoming to come back to a city that is
coming to life again. Where the grim reality

post-Thordak's fall has now been replaced with, it
seems to be a vibrant, buzzing energy of recovery

and moving forward. This still is the central city
of Tal'Dorei, and the people who have returned to

this are bringing it back as soon as they can to
the splendor it once held, being the jewel city of

this continent. You guys, after docking Adella and
the crew, which I can't recall,

did you pay them in advance?

LAURA: Mm-hm.

MATT: Great.

LAURA: No, I'm sure I did, marked it down, so.

MATT: I'm pretty sure you did.

LAURA: Oh no, I didn't, because we had decided on
150 gold per day. So, we went back quicker than we

thought so three days back, five days there?

MATT: Mm-hm.

LAURA: And then how many days were we in--

MATT: Technically, two.

TALIESIN: Two.

MATT: One, two nights in Vesrah.

LAURA: So ten? So just over 1,000 gold, that's
good.

SAM: I'll take care of it.

LAURA: Are you going to write her an IOU?

SAM: No, I'll pay her in gold.

LAURA: Taryon, really?

SAM: I hired you all, it's only the right thing,
Vex.

LAURA: Wow. Thank you, Taryon.

SAM: I'm a man of my word.

LAURA: I'm going to stand by your side as you pay
her.

MATT: Captain Adella's there with her crew behind
her. "It's been an absolute pleasure. Should you

"require our assistance again, you know where to
find us, and if not, we're busy making money

"elsewhere, fuck off."

SAM: 1,500?

MATT: She takes the coin purse from you.

SAM: Plus 150 tip.

MATT: Takes that, hands it to one of her-- her
first mate--

SAM: Plus 200 for any damages to your ship.

MATT: "It was quite damaged." Passes it off to her
first mate again and you can see the first mate is

kind of the sheepish mousy gentleman who is
currently in process of counting all the coins as

they come in, he's, like, the on-board accountant
and he's just-- "We're good." "Wonderful. Thank

"you so much for your patronage. Wish you all a
fond farewell. Now shoo."

LAURA: Taryon, thank you.

SAM: It's a pleasure doing business with you.

LAURA: All right.

MATT: You guys head into the city, and with each
street corner there's another building with a roof

that's being re-roofed. You can see walls being
re-stoned and structured. You can see carts being

brought in from the docks as trade has now begun
anew within the city, and there is a semblance of

culture, life and society continuing to still
re-emerge and spread with each visit to the city,

and it's very heartwarming and harkening to the
good that you've done through the struggles and

challenges leading up to this time.

LIAM: I'm sorry, old man, who's in charge here
these days?

MATT: "In charge of what?"

LIAM: The city? Who's running things?

MATT: "Oh, the Council."

LIAM: They're doing all right?

MATT: "I think so?"

LIAM: Okay, everything steady as she goes?

MATT: "I mean, my house is in ruins and I haven't
seen my grandchildren but--"

LAURA: Wow.

SAM: (laughs) Jesus.

TALIESIN: Well, that was English, well done.

MATT: "Could I?"

TALIESIN: That was the most English thing I've
ever seen in my life.

LIAM: Sure thing, Grandfather.

MATT: "Good day to you." Then he just wanders
off.

LAURA: Can I just pull Keyleth aside as we come on
land? And just say, I was very impressed with you.

For a long time, I've harbored a bit of doubt, I'm
sorry to say, and when you brought us away from

the kraken, I was very angry and very fearful. But
you've proven yourself, so much,

and I want to say I'm sorry.

MARISHA: There's no need for an apology. Just, you
being there means everything.

LAURA: I believe in you.

MARISHA: That means a lot, coming from you,
because I think you're just the coolest. I'm sorry

if I ever put you or your brother in harm's way.
Or anyone else.

LAURA: We all did it willingly. He especially.

MARISHA: Well. Thank you. What now?

LAURA: Well, we still have some things to take
care of. We have a crown to get on your head. I

can't believe you're going to be royalty.
Royalty-royalty.

MARISHA: Royalty's a strong word.

LAURA: Rule royalty. That's pretty fucking cool,
Keyleth.

MARISHA: Well, you're pretty cool yourself.

LAURA: Ah, well.

MARISHA: All Grand Mistress Nightwatch. What's it
called? Whatever.

TALIESIN: I'm not helping.

(all laugh)

LAURA: Keyleth. I'm glad my brother found you. I'm
glad we all found you.

MARISHA: I'm glad I found you guys.

LAURA: Love-love.

MARISHA: Learned a lot from you, so thank you. She
winked at me again.

MATT: As you guys make your way through the city
towards the temple district of Emon, you find your

way to the temple of Sarenrae, and as you begin to
step on the outside, the door's already open, and

knowingly awaiting, Pike steps out with a smile to
greet you.

(all cheer)

ASHLEY: It's okay! I just disappeared 'cause I was
in the shimmery. I was the cotton candy. You

didn't hurt me at all.

TRAVIS: I like cotton candy.

ASHLEY: Yeah, but--

(all laugh)

ASHLEY: I shouldn't say-- I wasn't like that,
then.

TRAVIS: Oh, okay. I'm sorry if I hurt you.

ASHLEY: No, you didn't at all!

TRAVIS: Okay.

ASHLEY: I didn't even feel it.

TRAVIS: Wow, you are really getting strong.

ASHLEY: I just disappeared.

TRAVIS: Yeah. You distappeared.

(all laugh)

ASHLEY: Hi, everybody!

TALIESIN: Hand over a big pile of seashell
jewelry.

ASHLEY: What is this?

TALIESIN: Now, there we are.

MARISHA: Now you can wear it.

ASHLEY: Oh, yes! Ooh.

TALIESIN: It fits, good. I was a little worried.

MARISHA: He spent the entire time on the boat
braiding macrame, it was crazy.

TALIESIN: I've only got the medium glasses right
now, so--

MARISHA: He's getting into beading, it's odd.

(all laugh)

ASHLEY: I give him a big hug.

TALIESIN: Everybody needs a hobby.

MARISHA: No, it's great.

TALIESIN: Macrame might be mine.

MATT: Pike runs up and gives you a big hug.

LIAM: Stress relief.

ASHLEY: I give him a big hug.

TALIESIN: Thank you.

ASHLEY: Hello, Tary.

SAM: Hello, Pike. In the flesh, this time. I hope
that you've seen that I've been

doing as you asked every night.

ASHLEY: Can I insight check him?

MATT: Go for it.

TALIESIN: Did we hear him say that?

MATT: Under his breath, yeah.

TALIESIN: Okay.

LAURA: I know, right?

ASHLEY: Natural 20.

SAM: Absolutely.

MATT: Yeah, telling the truth, straight up. There
is a look of genuine awe and fear in his eyes when

he looks at you.

ASHLEY: I'm very proud of you. You need to
continue until you know it by heart.

SAM: I think I've learned their first names at
least.

ASHLEY: I know.

(all laugh)

ASHLEY: You have.

TRAVIS: (deep voice) I know.

(all laugh)

SAM: Well. What do we do now, fellows?

MARISHA: To the keep?

LIAM: Yeah, you wanna see where we live?

LAURA: To the keep, we need to stop by the
library.

SAM: Sure, yes, absolutely.

LAURA: Yeah, let's go to Greyskull.

TALIESIN: Give you a place to put down your things
for a bit.

MARISHA: Do you have the papers with you that you
pulled from Raishan? Are those with us?

MATT: They're in the bag of holding.

MARISHA: I'll help you research those.

TALIESIN: Yeah, we'll do a bit of that.

MARISHA: All right.

MATT: So you guys make your way back to Greyskull
Keep--

TALIESIN: I'll show you the other workshop.

SAM: (gasps) Ooh, there's something I need to
tinker.

TALIESIN: Oh, good. I actually need to talk to you
about that.

MATT: Much to your joy, some of your original
servants have returned from Whitestone.

(all cheer)

LAURA: Yay! Who all came back?

MATT: You do see within there, Laina and Erwin--

LIAM: Holy shit!

LAURA: I was so worried about them!

MATT: Laina greets you as you come up, she's like,
"Oh goodness me, it's been so long, all of you.

"Well, come in, it's so good to see you. Well, as
you were wandering about, we were all just keeping

"it down over there in Whitestone, but it's so nice
to be back. This place, it needs some work. Please

"don't be judging, I'm trying to clean as best I
can!" And the place looks pretty good, based on

the last time you saw it, but there's still dust
gathered around. She looks genuinely nervous, her

hair's kind of wracked.

LAURA: You're doing a great job.

LIAM: We're all a bit of a work in progress, it's
fine, dear.

LAURA: Yeah.

TALIESIN: That's very fair.

MATT: She turns and Erwen comes up, you see him,
you know, the very very old halfling male with his

long gray ponytail. "And it is great to see all of
you once more."

MARISHA: Erwen!

LIAM: Erwen.

MARISHA: You're still alive!

TALIESIN: Yeah, how did you manage?

LIAM: We thought natural causes might, you know.

MARISHA: Yeah.

MATT: "Which was very possible, yes."

TRAVIS: Can I insight check him?

MATT: Yes, you may.

TRAVIS: 19. No, is that a natural 20? It's a
natural 20.

ASHLEY: That's a natural 20.

MARISHA: Yeah, Gil!

LAURA: Oh! He's coming over-- whispers about
Erwen.

SAM: He is dead. He is a dead man.

MARISHA: He's Hotis!

LIAM: He has consumption.

SAM: Guys, use the code 'lootcrate' to get 10% off
your monthly loot crate.

TRAVIS: Well, I reach and I grab the dwarven
thrower. Welcome back, you son of a bitch.

(all laugh)

LIAM: (Grog voice) And I crush him into jam.

MATT: "I must say, I greatly appreciate you all
being so quick in getting us out of that whole

"dragon mess. I was rightfully frightened for my
life. Anyway, I need to continue making your

"beds." And he slowly begins shuffling off towards
the stairway.

TALIESIN: Well.

MARISHA: Aw.

ASHLEY: I love him.

MARISHA: He's too good for us.

ASHLEY: Yeah.

TALIESIN: That is unexpected.

MARISHA: Yes, he's still alive.

SAM: So, this is your house?

LIAM: This is our keep, man.

MARISHA: Yes! This is where we would have dinner.

TALIESIN: It's more of a summer home.

MARISHA: Oh! And that's a giant portrait of one of
our members who you haven't met, he made it riding

on a unicorn. It's great. You should show him the
basement.

TALIESIN: Oh no, we're going to get there, but I
figure we give him the full tour.

TRAVIS: Are we gonna tell him the fucking name or
what?

LAURA: Yeah, it's Greyskull Keep.

LIAM: Fool.

SAM: That's a really cool name.

LAURA: I know, right?

SAM: Wow. That's excellent!

TALIESIN: I've been thinking about redecorating.

SAM: Have you lived here very long, because
there's--

TRAVIS: It's on and off.

TALIESIN: Well, summer home really.

LAURA: Unfortunately, not too long.

LIAM: We've been vacationing from it for a while.

SAM: You might want to consider different keepers
of this place. It seems a bit--

LAURA: There were fucking dragons, Tary!

SAM: All right.

LAURA: Dragons!

SAM: You're right, it's just, I'm just not used
to-

TALIESIN: No, but if you have any input on decor
or otherwise, we would be interested.

SAM: Lots of murals, lots of tapestries.

TALIESIN: Oh, I would assume.

TRAVIS: Most of the murals are of one of our
friends, but yeah.

TALIESIN: We'll vary it up a bit.

LIAM: I don't know how long we're staying here,
but you can have my old room. You got a room.

SAM: Where will you sleep?

LAURA: (laughs)

TALIESIN: In my old room.

(all laugh)

SAM: All right, sure.

LAURA: This is ridiculous.

TALIESIN: It's good coffee today.

MATT: This is the second time Polymachina has come
up in our campaign? Taryon and the two guards in

Syngorn-- really confused. All right.

TALIESIN: And I'll definitely show him the
downstairs, and anytime you want to use the

workshop downstairs-- it's a bit thin at the
moment.

MATT: Yeah, most of the tools have been stolen.

SAM: Well, we'll have to go in town and buy some
replacements for you.

TALIESIN: Yes.

LIAM: You can make shit, though, what can you
make?

SAM: Anything I set my mind to, if I have enough
raw materials.

LIAM: Hats?

SAM: Sure. You need a hat?

TALIESIN: Invisibility?

SAM: Sure, I've done that before. I've given you
invisibility coins.

LIAM: Do you have a specialty? Do you do clothing,
or--

SAM: Anything alchemic.

TALIESIN: Teleportation?

SAM: I don't think I can do that, but anything
that combines a little bit of magic with a little

bit of engineering I can probably manage.

LIAM: What about a beard trimmer?

SAM: A beard trimmer?

LIAM: Yes.

TRAVIS: What?

LIAM: He's looking a little shaggy.

TALIESIN: Death has changed you.

SAM: Sure, that seems like an easy thing to do.
You seem pretty clean-shaven, though.

LIAM: Yeah, I don't grow thick. It's pretty
sparse, actually.

LAURA: What?

ASHLEY: Whoopsie.

LAURA: Uh.

TALIESIN: Oh.

LIAM: Dirty birds.

LAURA: I go to the library.

LIAM: Wait! Where're you going? I want to go to
the library. Yeah, beard trimmer.

SAM: I'm on it.

LIAM: I need a beard trimmer.

SAM: I'm on it, Vax.

TALIESIN: Feel free to restock whatever's missing.
Keyleth and I, I think at the very least, and

maybe anybody else who wants to go upstairs and
start poring through the wonderful private nooks

and crannies of the library, please.

TRAVIS: How are you going to do that, by the way?

TALIESIN: Nooks and crannies?

TRAVIS: Yeah, like, doesn't that require reading?

TALIESIN: I've got-- well, they're not very good,
are they?

TRAVIS: No, they're not, are they?

TALIESIN: Do I have any spare-- I don't have any
spare glasses, do I?

TRAVIS: What do you need?

TALIESIN: I think I need the glasses.

TRAVIS: What do you got?

TALIESIN: Hm.

LAURA: You already got his ascot, don't you?

TRAVIS: Yep.

TALIESIN: Let me think about that for a moment.
Carry on.

TRAVIS: Yep.

MATT: All right.

ASHLEY: Grog, did you steal Percy's glasses?

TRAVIS: No, he actually gave them to me.

ASHLEY: Oh!

TRAVIS: Yep. But I found out from Vex, that when
you trade, you get something in return and last

time, I got a title. Yep.

ASHLEY: You did?

TRAVIS: Yeah I'm the Grand Doopa Babink of All
Didedah.

(all laugh)

ASHLEY: That sounds fun.

TRAVIS: Yeah. It's a top secret title and it comes
with all the land and money,

and a bunch of short names.

TALIESIN: I'm very quickly going to craft
something super simple.

MATT: What're you crafting?

ASHLEY: Lands and money where?

TALIESIN: I want to make a little foil pinwheel
out of tin.

TRAVIS: I don't know. Probably everywhere.

MATT: Yeah. Make a tinkering check.

ASHLEY: I always knew you were royalty.

LAURA: (laughs)

TALIESIN: It's proficiency plus dex?

MATT: Yeah.

TALIESIN: I can never remember. Well, you know,
that's probably good enough. Let's see. 18?

MATT: You just didn't roll a one.

TALIESIN: Yeah.

MATT: You're fine. Yeah, you produce a-- with what
little materials you have there-- raw materials

left, you happily do so.

TALIESIN: I have made a tiny pinwheel. It spins.
And it's made of metal.

MARISHA: I do a little gust cantrip to blow it.

TALIESIN: And I put it on your lapel or your
little strap that counts as a--

I just put it in a belt loop.

ASHLEY: That's the cutest thing.

TRAVIS: Am I a fucking child?

TALIESIN: Now you know if there's wind blowing.
This is what I had I'm really like-- I'll give the

glasses back when I'm done with them. This is a
rental charge.

TRAVIS: Because of my high office, I will forgive
this offense. Come back when you're serious. Cloak

of smashing, title, whatever. I'm sure you're very
smart. You'll think of something.

MARISHA: You want another title?

TRAVIS: I'll keep this as a deposit though.

(all laugh)

TALIESIN: Shit.

MARISHA: Just give him another title.

TALIESIN: Oh dear.

MATT: All right, so you guys go to the library.
What're you looking for specifically?

LAURA: What're we doing? Researching something.
Hotis? And like the Nine Hells.

LIAM: Hell.

MATT: Investigation check.

LIAM: Orcus?

LAURA: All of it. Ooh! 26!

LIAM: Which one are we doing?

LAURA: Investigation.

LIAM: Investigation?

TALIESIN: I'm just going to help with the spines
of books at this point.

LIAM: 23.

MATT: Okay.

LIAM: Damn it!

MARISHA: Yeah I'll do the reading for Percy until
he gets his glasses back.

MATT: There you go. You're hard-pressed to find
anything in your library that gets very specific.

There are mythological mentions of the Nine Hells,
of multiple layers, of demon princes. But the

books that you have at your disposal largely speak
about them like a fairy tale. Or talk about

historical mentions of them through the history of
Exandria, of the betrayer gods, and the old age of

arcanum days. But nothing specifically about the
hells. So even with the research, you just don't

have those books in the keep.

LAURA: We got to go somewhere better.

LIAM: Vasselheim. Isn't there a library there?

LAURA: There's a library here. The Cobalt Reserve.
It was just kind of smashed, but I wonder if

there's still books there.

LIAM: Is it blown to shit?

MATT: The Cobalt Reserve is in Westruun.

LAURA: Just kidding. It's in Westruun.

MATT: But it is essentially the largest collection
of the most dense and

sacred books on the continent.

LIAM: Hey, that's a good idea you just had.

LAURA: Hey!

LIAM: In Westruun.

LAURA: I was just wrong about, yeah, the city.
That's it.

LIAM: Well shit, all right.

LAURA: What do you think?

LIAM: Well, I don't think we should go charging
into the Nine Hells like we did the ocean.

LAURA: No. (laughs)

TALIESIN: When you put it like that.

LIAM: Yeah, let's try to prepare better.

LAURA: Shall we go to Westruun?

LIAM: Yeah. Maybe not today.

LAURA: No.

LIAM: We just got here. But yeah.

LAURA: That's where we'll go to?

TRAVIS: Yep.

LAURA: Yeah? Tight? Tight?

TALIESIN: A'ight.

MARISHA: We're reading papers from Raishan's.

TALIESIN: Also, yeah.

MATT: So you're pulling some of the notes you had
gathered-- what languages do you guys speak?

MARISHA: I speak Primordial.

MATT: Speak or read.

MARISHA: And, well.

TALIESIN: High-school Spanish.

MARISHA: Primordial, Druidic, Sylvan, Elven.

TALIESIN: Common, Celestial, Elven.

MATT: Right.

LAURA: Draconic, Abyssal.

MATT: Most of these notes you cannot read. The
language you've-- Percival, you recognize the

script. A lot of them are written in Abyssal.

TALIESIN: All right.

LAURA: I can read Abyssal.

LIAM: We read Abyssal, we studied it in school.

MATT: Right, so do you go and call their help?

TALIESIN: Who reads Abyssal? I can't-- who reads
at all. This is all out of focus.

LAURA: I read Abyssal.

LIAM: Oh, do you need help reading a book,
Percival?

LAURA: Do you need help because we both speak
Abyssal?

MARISHA: Grog stole his glasses, go easy on him.

SAM: That's cool.

TRAVIS: I did not steal. They were a gift.

LIAM: Excuse, me but this is a once-in-a-lifetime
moment for me.

TALIESIN: Are you enjoying yourself?

LIAM: Do you-- immensely.

TALIESIN: This is my gift to you. Happy
Rebirthday.

LIAM: Thank you, Freddie. Have a seat, let me
translate for you.

And a very merry Unbirthday to you.

TALIESIN: I'm glad I let Grog hit you 'cause I
know it hurt more.

MATT: All right, so you glance through some of the
notes that were gathered. A lot of them appear to

be almost gibberish in the order of words. They
don't make sense. Or at least--

LIAM: In Abyssal, the verb goes at the end of the
sentence, which is different than in Common. You

might not have known that.

MATT: You do make up some of them are historical
discussions on the roots of powerful magic.

Elements during the founding, they're mentioned a
few times. They speak of the original Titans, it's

a lot of very similarly and type-dense scattered
notes. Some of the books that you pull are

specifically arcane spellbooks, but they're also
written in Abyssal. And as neither of you are

practitioners of arcane magic, you have no idea
what they say, you just recognize them to be sort

of spell markings.

LIAM: That's some bullshit.

MARISHA: Don't say those things out loud.

MATT: There is the one large dark leather tome
that is still locked on the side, and that was

what was on the--

LAURA: Right. That one feels, is like super
scary-looking, though, right?

MATT: Of all the books, it looks like probably the
premium book of Opash's collection.

LAURA: Does it have writing on the cover?

MATT: It has no writing on the cover. It is just a
dark black, leather-bound tome roughly that big

that looks like it's weathered, scratched in
places. It has kind of like a deep, metallic

cornered trimmed bits to it.

LAURA: But Gilmore looked at that. I had Gilmore
look at it and he said it was scary.

MATT: He said whoever decides to read it should be
strong of will. That was his warning.

LAURA: Right.

TALIESIN: Yeah, a lock on a book is one of those
universal titles that make sense in any language.

LAURA: Question.

MATT: Yes?

LAURA: DM? What would will-- is that wisdom?

MATT: That's like wisdom modifier.

LAURA: Okay.

MATT: Generally, like wisdom saving throw. That's
generally the kind of

willpower tests elements of it.

LIAM: Did Shaun say to read it or to open it, do
we remember?

LAURA: He said whoever read it had to be careful.

MATT: Read it.

LIAM: Okay. Do I see any kind of trap to the
lock?

MATT: Investigation check.

TALIESIN: Are we going there?

LIAM: No, I'm just checking, I'm not opening it.

LAURA: Whoa! Pike should read it.

MATT: If you wish to.

LIAM: That's fine.

TRAVIS: Pike should read it.

LIAM: Perception you said? 22.

LAURA: Pike's got crazy wisdom, we should make her
look at it.

MATT: 22? It does not appear to be trapped, it is
locked though.

LIAM: Okay. I will-- do we want to crack this shit
open now?

TRAVIS: Yes! Absolutely.

LAURA: I mean, maybe Pike should look at it.

LIAM: Yeah, I'm not gonna fucking read it, I'm
just gonna open it for Pike.

MARISHA: Did you detect any traps?

LIAM: I didn't. Seems all right.

MARISHA: Can I do Detect Magic on it? Sorry.

SAM: Can I-- no, it's fine.

MATT: You've already been told that it's magical
from Gilmore earlier.

LAURA: Gilmore looked at it.

SAM: Can I cast Identify on the lock or
something?

LAURA: On the book?

LIAM: Or on the book.

MATT: That's essentially what Gilmore did. It's
not a magical item with abilities or powers. It

just has a magical essence to it and it's
ancient.

LAURA: We should have Pike look at this.

TRAVIS: Yup.

LAURA: Pike! Look at this.

LIAM: I'm gonna try to unlock it.

LAURA: Wait, wait, I just wanted to-- oh god.

MATT: All right, make a lock-picking check.

LIAM: Well no, is there anything you want to do,
Pike, before I open it?

LAURA: It's just a dark book, we found it in
Raishan, well in--

MATT: Opash's slash Thordak's lair.

LAURA: Opash's lair.

MARISHA: Slash Raishan's.

TALIESIN: It's a locked book of unspeakable evil.

LAURA: Gilmore said to be careful of it.

TRAVIS: It's made from, like, flesh?

SAM: Do you fellows think that it will explode, or
something bad, when we open it?

TALIESIN: Oh, god, if that's all--

LAURA: We're just sort of afraid it will take over
someone's mind or something.

MARISHA: Yeah.

SAM: Why don't we have Doty open it?

MARISHA: What's your will, Pike? Your wisdom?

TALIESIN: What's Doty's willpower?

SAM: I dunno, it doesn't matter. If he breaks,
I'll fix him.

ASHLEY: It would be considered saving-- you would
add your saving throw wisdom?

MATT: We'll find out.

LAURA: Ohh.

MARISHA: Can I assist Pike in some way since we're
both wise as fuck?

MATT: You guys could both attempt to read it
together and

you'd both have to possibly be tested.

ASHLEY: Tested?

MATT: That's your call.

SAM: Wow.

MARISHA: My saving throw modifier is plus 11.

LAURA: Pike is really, really wise.

SAM: Wow.

LIAM: All right, so, hold on a minute.

ASHLEY: Oh, shit.

MARISHA: -- and my regular modifier is plus six.

MATT: What are we doing?

LIAM: Hold on a minute. I'm gonna unlock it. I'm
not even gonna open it. I'm just gonna unlock it.

So I get between everybody and the book.

TRAVIS: Yep.

LAURA: Close your eyes as soon as you unlock it.

LIAM: Okay.

LAURA: (laughs)

LIAM: That is a-- That's fine. That's a 26.

MATT: It opens.

LIAM: Okay, hold on.

LAURA: I back away.

SAM: Ooh.

LIAM: Hold on.

MATT: The latch opens, not the book.

LIAM: Hold on. Keyleth, Pike, Vex, c'mere.

LAURA: I'm in the doorway, man.

TALIESIN: I can't read it anyway.

ASHLEY: We can do it.

MARISHA: I go up. I go up.

ASHLEY: We can do it together.

TRAVIS: Yeah, just you two.

MARISHA: I don't know, I don't know.

LIAM: I cast Bless on Pickle, on Keyleth, and my
twin's far away, so I guess on myself.

ASHLEY: What do we get?

LIAM: And then I step behind the girls--

LAURA: (laughs)

MATT: Okay.

LIAM: -- and watch.

MATT: All right. Who's doing what?

TRAVIS: Oh no, look at that face. Holy shit,
look--

LAURA: Oh no, what's that face? What's that face?

TRAVIS: Look at that forehead. That's like an F5
tornado rolling in.

SAM: Three people reading a book.

ASHLEY: Should we have Doty open it?

SAM: It doesn't get any more intense.

(all laugh)

MARISHA: This is what you tuned in for.

TRAVIS: Let's not turn this into burying the
shoebox. It's just a book, let's just read it.

ASHLEY: Should we have Doty look at it? We
wouldn't be able to tell.

TALIESIN: That didn't work out.

SAM: You seem much more powerful than Doty ever
will be.

TRAVIS: He's also not alive.

LAURA: Yeah, do it. Do it!

LIAM: All right, then.

LAURA: I mean, do it if you want to. I'm standing
in the doorway.

MARISHA: Okay, all right, all right, if you wanna
read it, I will go over your shoulder and be on

the ready in case anything bad happens.

SAM: In a way, the cover of a book is kind of like
a door.

LAURA: A little bit.

MARISHA: It's true.

MATT: (laughs)

SAM: So we're facing another door.

ASHLEY: Okay.

MATT: All right, what?

ASHLEY: I'm going to--

LIAM: Trying to earn points with us, or what?

SAM: (laughs)

ASHLEY: -- take my quill.

LAURA: (gasps)

MATT: Okay.

ASHLEY: And I'm just gonna peek it open, just a
little bit.

MATT: Okay. You peek it open.

SAM: (slamming noise)

ASHLEY: Anything happens?

MATT: Nah, just the top creaks open.

SAM: Bikini islands.

TALIESIN: This'll be like the end of the second
act--

ASHLEY: Flip it open.

TALIESIN: -- the second act of Ghostbusters.

MATT: The top of the tome flips open. Couple pages
go like (fwoosh) kinda stuck to it, and then fall

back into place.

LIAM: Do a jump scare.

ASHLEY: (spooky groaning noise)

MARISHA: Fall back into place? Why? What?

LAURA: Well, it's just open, it's just an open
book.

MATT: The pages kinda like curl back in, almost
like they were stuck to the--

MARISHA: Okay. Nothing weird.

MATT: Nothing weird.

LAURA: Just air.

MARISHA: Just air, yeah, just a draft.

MATT: A little bit of dust kinda like (swoosh)
off the bottom of it. The pages are old. You see a

little bit of text drawn on it.

LAURA: What does it say? What is it? What does it
look like?

MATT: What languages do you know, Pike?

LIAM: Shush.

ASHLEY: Gnomish, Common, Underdark, Undercommon,
Dwarvish.

LIAM: Ooh.

MATT: You do not recognize the text.

ASHLEY: I can't read it.

LIAM: Is it Abyssal?

LAURA: Shit.

MATT: It is Abyssal.

LAURA: Aw, fuck.

MARISHA: You are the only ones who can speak
Abyssal.

SAM: (laughs) That reaction.

LAURA: Oh, no.

TRAVIS: Time to die.

LIAM: I'll do it.

LAURA: What? Lemme see-- how much-- how wise are
you?

MARISHA: Okay, all right--

TRAVIS: I approve of this decision-making.

MARISHA: -- hang on, hang on.

ASHLEY: Hang on, hang on, hang on, hang on.

LAURA: You're not even as wise as I am.

MARISHA: Who wants to read it? I can--

LIAM: That's very subjective!

LAURA: (laughs)

MARISHA: I'll enhance your ability.

TALIESIN: Do you act--

MATT: Enhance does not really help with saving
throws. Just so you know.

ASHLEY: I'll cast Bless--

LIAM: I already did that.

MATT: Just ability checks. If it's an ability
check, it'll help.

LIAM: I Blessed myself.

MATT: But just so you know.

MARISHA: Can I do anything--

MATT: That's up to you.

SAM: Turn into a dragon.

(all laugh)

LAURA: I'm gonna step up.

MARISHA: I just eat the book!

MATT: (laughs)

TALIESIN: (burps)

MARISHA: (laughs)

LAURA: I'm gonna go up and try to look at it.

MATT: Okay.

ASHLEY: I'm gonna cast Bless on her.

MARISHA: Who's reading?

MATT: Okay.

MARISHA: Are you reading?

LAURA: Yeah.

MATT: So.

MARISHA: I cast Enhance Ability on her and give
her, I think it's Owl's Wisdom.

MATT: Sure, all right.

LAURA/LIAM: Ooh!

TALIESIN: I run over, I give you a quick kiss. I
say, if you turn evil, it's still cool. Just so

you know.

(all laugh)

MATT: All right. So, Vex.

LAURA: Yeah?

MATT: You begin to glance through the pages and
the words form around you, and you get a ways into

it, and it's interesting. This is a personal
notebook. It's a tome, but this is written by

Opash, this is--

LAURA: This is a gir-nal.

MATT: Yeah. (laughs)

SAM: (blows raspberry)

TALIESIN: Whoa.

SAM: (laughs)

LIAM: Well done. Well done.

MATT: This goes into Opash's history on Marquet
during the Age of Arcanum, a lot of the terrible

experiments that he was currently working on that
dealt with rending and capturing the soul.

LAURA: (gasps)

MATT: Capturing the servants and people that
wandered the desert and would just-- had a series

of caverns across the continent that were--

MARISHA: (sneezes)

TALIESIN: Bless you.

MATT: -- his to use, where he kept these
individuals trapped in gems or glass

menagerie-type structures where he would come back
at his whim and just destroy souls, shatter them,

corrupt them, forge them into things, feed on
them. He was fascinated with the never-ending

essence of existence and how to manipulate it and
make it his own. It goes into that. It goes into

people that didn't understand him in Marquet; how
he was driven out, the trials that were put

against him, his banishment to the island. And
then in learning about the facet of this island

that there's something about the metal here,
something very ancient about this island that

becomes this black hole of arcane projection.
Astral Projection is not possible from the island,

he discovered as he attempted that. And travel
magics that go to or from the island have a very

difficult ability to escape it, if not get very
messed up in the process.

MARISHA: We learned that.

TALIESIN: Yep.

MATT: However, it talks about how, when he was
banished there, he discovered the indigenous

people and those that lived on nearby islands that
would take small ships from island to island, and

there was a trade route there. He convinced and
corrupted them to come and work for him, and such,

he brought the entire civilization from these
multiple islands to come live on this island under

him. And then he reaved them all to become his
experiments to continue here on this island. And

you get a sense, reading through, that the masses
of people you saw within that giant chasm that

were clawing at you as you passed, those were all
the people that used to live on these islands.

LAURA and ASHLEY: Oh my gosh!

MATT: You then also discover a few different
chapters. One that mentions finding a near-dead

dragon that washes on shore, a red dragon on the
cusp of death. And what a great gift it is, to

discover, to toy with the soul of an ancient
entity like this. And it speaks of years of

enslaving this red dragon and torturing and
extracting information and manipulating and making

it his own toy. And then, began to pull together
research he had read elsewhere on the continuation

of a dragon's soul, of being able to take the
spirit of a dragon and make it indestructible and

to live from body to body. And if he could find a
way to correct this to work for himself it

wouldn't be-- his power would continue without the
binds of lichdom that a lot of other type magics

would eventually be bound to-- the phylactery
element, through a dragon transition would be a

lot easier to maintain, and his hope for doing so.
It beings to speak of a ritual, one that involved

this ancient, ancient entity dragon called Guuthal
the Ever-Fed. A mighty black dragon that was

instilled with necromantic power that terrorized
the world during the Age of Arcanum in its first

millennia. Guuthal had used ritualistic aid,
forbidden rites, and sacrifice of its own

lifeforce to be born again as this never-dying new
form of unlife referred to as a dracolich.

However, the last few notes in Opash's hand end
abruptly and

a new handwriting in Draconic begins.

LAURA: Which I also read.

MATT: Which you also read. These notes are less
poetic and speaking to itself in the way Opash was

by himself and needed somebody to converse with,
and he chose his words. This is a much more

direct, trying to piece together parts of an
equation. And you start seeing references to J'mon

Sa Ord, you see references to being the king that
rises from the ashes. You begin to realize that

these are the words of Thordak. This was the
moment when Thordak overtook Opash, destroyed him,

and made the lair his own. This history then goes
into Thordak's interest in trying to find power to

take this ritual unto himself and thus become an
undying entity. The notes finish with the intent

of Thordak going north to seek out mages, to seek
out power, things he could bind to his will and

bring them back to make this ritual happen. That's
the last passage you see. You begin to realize

that the knowledge that Thordak had, and was
holding from Raishan, was the knowledge of this

ritual that would probably be what would enable
her to bypass the curse that she had.

LAURA: Oh my gosh. But we killed her.

MATT: But you killed her.

LAURA: This could have been so much worse.

MARISHA: Yes, it could've.

MATT: I also need you to make a wisdom saving
throw.

SAM: Ooh, shnikies!

ASHLEY: Can I--

LIAM: Bless, bless, bless.

TRAVIS: Can I--

LAURA: What does Bless do?

ASHLEY: Can I also cast Beacon of Hope on her?

SAM: It's like inspiration.

LAURA: Don't fuck me, Gil!

MATT: What's Beacon of Hope do?

ASHLEY: Beacon of Hope gives you advantage on
wisdom saving throws.

MATT: Okay.

LAURA: Oh, tight.

MATT: So, Beacon of Hope is cast.

LIAM: It's already good.

LAURA: Okay, 16.

LIAM: Roll a d4 and add it.

LAURA: It's just saving throw?

MATT: Saving throw, yes.

LAURA: 18 + 3 is 21, plus two.

LIAM: What does that Owl's Wisdom do?

LAURA: 23.

MARISHA: Huh?

LIAM: What does Owl's Wisdom do?

MARISHA: It gives you advantage on wisdom checks.

LAURA: Oh, okay.

MARISHA: Not saving throws.

MATT: Not saving throws. So, as you're reading
through this, you guys watch as Vex's attention--

LAURA: Oh wait, (whispers) 18, 19, 20, 23 (louder)
25.

MATT: 25, okay.

LAURA: Oh no, that's a 16, I'm sorry! I was right,
it was 23. I'm sorry, I'm sorry,

I'm sorry, I'm a dick!

MATT: As you are reading through this, and you go
through, you watch as she turns the pages faster

and faster and her eyes unblinkingly are just
scanning the pages with rapid pace. And, Vex, you

feel this cold essence begin to curl through your
shoulders and into the back of the neck and right

as you finish the last bit of notes before
Thordak, you feel something try to reach for the

back of your mind. Cold fingers, ten, 20, an
endless supply of grasping fingers reach for the

back of your mind. And you shrug it off and pull
yourself away from the book and the cold fades.

LAURA: I shut the book.

MARISHA: You all right?

LAURA: Great.

TRAVIS: Bad story?

LAURA: I tell them everything I read.

MATT: Yeah.

LAURA: Super fast 'cause I'm, like, a speed reader
it's no big deal.

LIAM: You were reading for like 25 minutes.

LAURA: Oh shit! Well, it was a big journal.

LIAM: Yeah.

SAM: It's amazing. Anastasia Steele fell in love
with Christian Grey just like that? Amazing!

(all laugh)

TRAVIS: Jesus Christ.

TALIESIN: It's a knockout.

TRAVIS: Oh my god.

TALIESIN: Wow, now I can feel the fingers in the
back of my head.

(all laugh)

MATT: All the rest of us making a wisdom saving
throw!

TALIESIN: Damn it.

SAM: I know Laura read that.

LAURA: I read most of it and then I just threw the
book away.

TALIESIN: Pike, can we destroy this thing?

ASHLEY: That was--

LAURA: Well--

ASHELY: -- what I was going to see if we--

LAURA: Should we destroy this thing? I feel like
maybe, I mean--

TALIESIN: The knowledge exists now.

LAURA: It's true.

TALIESIN: It's outside the book, and if the book
was-- there's something in there.

MARISHA: Can we have Doty copy down everything
that you just said?

TALIESIN: Oh! Oh!

LIAM: She said.

MARISHA: Not actually exact transcriptions, just
so we keep the knowledge.

TALIESIN: Transcription of the story.

SAM: I mean, sure, he can record what her report
is if you like, sure, yes.

TALIESIN: It would be invaluable.

LAURA: All right.

MATT: Doty walks over to one of the nearby shelves
and finds one of the books that is only partially

written in, tears out all the pages--

LAURA: Okay, no, okay.

TALIESIN: That was--

LAURA: That's something.

MATT: -- and just begins transcribing from memory
what you just said.

MARISHA: High school notes?

TALIESIN: No, that was a sea captain's journal.
It's okay, it doesn't matter, it's not--

SAM: He didn't burn them, we could just--

TRAVIS: Are we doing that now? I mean, I can help
him, just--

LAURA: No, Grog!

TALIESIN: No no no no no!

GROG: And I just rip--

LAURA: Should we destroy-destroy this?

TALIESIN: I think so.

SAM: It's magical of some sort?

LAURA: It certainly felt like something was trying
to reach through.

MARISHA: That doesn't sit well with me.

LAURA: And what good does it do the world to know
how to bring back souls as the undead? It seems

kind of dark.

SAM: Do you lot have some sort of a vault here or
something?

TRAVIS: Do we?

MATT: You didn't have one made.

MARISHA: We don't here; we do in Whitestone.

TALIESIN: Even if there is a vault, all the vault
is is a-- it's the one place in any city where

everyone knows something valuable's kept.

SAM: A magical vault somewhere you could send this
thing to be far away?

LAURA: Well, we have a bag of holding.

TRAVIS: Ooh! You know what? We could like send it
into the plane where Craven Edge is and we'll take

the sword out and put the book in in its place.

TALIESIN: You know, I feel like there's someone
collecting terrible things.

LAURA: All terrible things.

LIAM: We could throw it in the black spinny thing
under Whitestone, or--

LAURA: Oh no!

LIAM: -- we could just give it to Allura.

MARISHA: We were also going to go the Cobalt
Reserve anyway, we could see, I'm sure they have

some sort of a library special secret book vault.

TALIESIN: I would feel all right with that.

LAURA: Let's keep it in the bag of holding for the
time being.

TRAVIS: Okay.

TALIESIN: Let's re-lock it.

LIAM: Big responsibility.

LAURA: Definitely.

MARISHA: Re-lock it.

LAURA: Re-lock it. Re-lock it.

MARISHA: I vote we take it to the Cobalt Reserve.

TALIESIN: I concur.

MATT: Okay.

LIAM: Do you concur? I concur.

LAURA: I concur.

TALIESIN: You concur?

MARISHA: Either that, or Vasselheim. One of the
two will have options, I'm sure.

TALIESIN: I feel that the Cobalt Reserve will
probably have some sort of

situation for books like this.

MARISHA: Okay.

TALIESIN: That seems reasonable.

MATT: So, what's the next step?

LAURA: We're going to go to Westruun. Right?

MARISHA: Did we go through all of the papers that
Raishan and everything had, for the most part?

MATT: All those notes seemed to pertain to that
book, and once you had the information from Vex,

it kind of connected all the dots. A lot of these
were notes regarding this ritual. Trying to find

ways to break the chain of the life/death cycle
and obsession with the alteration and harvesting

of souls and spiritual energy for the use of
powering arcane experimentation.

So, not good stuff.

MARISHA: He mentioned going north and looking for
other powerful entities and objects to bind with.

And then Raishan thought it would be a good idea
to settle down in Whitestone.

TRAVIS: Before we killed Raishan, didn't she say--

LAURA: Well, Wildmount is far north. Raishan said
she was from Wildmount.

TRAVIS: Right. And she said she had found what she
needed.

MATT: No, Raishan actually was from--

TALIESIN: South.

MATT: -- she was south of Tal'Dorei.

TRAVIS: Yeah.

LAURA: She was?

MATT: Yeah.

TALIESIN: Yes.

MARISHA: She had an interest in Whitestone, which
makes me wonder what the spinning black orb of

death has to do with all of this. Because I'm
still not convinced that it doesn't have some sort

of play in everything.

TALIESIN: It's just a spinning black orb of death
sitting underneath my family home.

LAURA: Dedicated to Vecna.

TALIESIN: No. There's nothing-- I'm well aware
that it's terrible. I don't know why you're

staring at me like that. Yes, I think about it a
lot. I'm--

MARISHA: I'm just, you know--

TALIESIN: I just don't know what to do about it.

LIAM: Well, we can, well, not me, but smart people
can devote more attention now that there's not

five great dragons trying to tear the world
apart.

TALIESIN: We'll help.

MARISHA: What time is it?

MATT: At this time, with you guys travelling
through the city, getting here, with the research,

I'd say it's getting pretty close to dusk. You
probably have like an hour or so

before the sun sets.

MARISHA: You all want to rest? Take the night off,
head to Westruun in the morning?

LAURA: Sure.

LIAM: Yeah. Back to the keep.

TALIESIN: Back to the keep. We are in the keep.

MARISHA: We are in the keep.

MATT: You are in the keep.

LIAM: We stay in the keep.

SAM: Has Emon come back enough to have shops open
for business or anything?

MATT: Yeah, I mean, not everything was destroyed.
There are shops that are open and there are people

running business here. I mean, a number of the
districts got damaged and some buildings are

having to be rebuilt, but it is still a functional
city. Though to a lesser degree right now.

MARISHA: You know, before we--

TALIESIN: Did you want to shop now or later?

SAM: I don't want to waste time. Everything I do,
I have to buy.

LAURA: Oh.

TALIESIN: Well, we can shop in the morning, on the
way out.

LAURA: Yeah.

SAM: Sure. Yep.

TALIESIN: Yeah, that's fair.

LAURA: Not in a huge rush. Yeah.

SAM: I'm at your disposal.

LAURA: We'll shop in Emon in the morning and then
head out to Westruun. They'll have shops there,

too. Just not as many.

TALIESIN: Brunch.

MARISHA: Brunch.

SAM: At dawn, we brunch.

TALIESIN: At dawn, we brunch.

LIAM: Please. Please.

TALIESIN: No chicken.

MATT: As the sun sets across the Tal'Dorei sky,
you all settle in for the evening to rest,

contemplate the return of your ally. Your next
venture in researching the path before you as Vox

Machina. You to return soon to finish your
Aramente to your people and see what lies ahead of

you by the threads of fate wielded by the Raven
Queen. At dawn, you brunch. And until then we'll

return next week, with the next episode of
Critical Role.

(all cheer)

LAURA: (sings) Everybody's still alive for the
time being.

LIAM: I really want brunch right now.

TALIESIN: I just want brunch so badly.

MATT: I know.

TALIESIN: I miss brunch.

LAURA: Those donuts were pretty fucking great.

MATT: Well, guys, thank you for watching.
Congratulations to our winner earlier. Thank you

again, Loot Crate, for being our awesome sponsor.

ALL: Loot Crate!

MATT: What's that?

CREW: We did make it for Amandine.

MATT: We made it for Amandine!

(cheers)

MATT: You guys are amazing. So we're going to go
ahead and get her all the best legal work that we

can to try and keep her in our midst. So thank you
guys so much for being generous and helping out

with that tremendously. Tremendously. It means a
lot. Both to her and all of us here at Geek &

Sundry so thank you. Thank you. Some of us-- I'll
be returning tomorrow at noon for Eric's TBD RPG.

Doctor Who. Which will be fun.

TALIESIN: Doctor Whom.

MATT: With Darin De Paul. Doctor Whom. I'm sorry.
You're right. And then all of us will be here on

Saturday for the 24-hour two-year anniversary
stream!

LAURA: I don't know if all of us--

TALIESIN: Many of us--

MATT: Many of us, many of us will be here on
Saturday.

MARISHA: Definitely Matt, Taliesin, and I, and
maybe others?

TALIESIN: Hey, you don't have to DM the Mansions
for once!

MATT: That's true, 'cause the new edition.

TALIESIN: Now Apple will do it for you.

MATT: It's wonderful. I was the Keeper almost
every time for years. Big surprise, right?

MARISHA: Yeah, I've been the Keeper a couple of
times.

MATT: You did! Which is why I said "most".

MARISHA: A few, though.

MATT: You were great. It was fun.

TALIESIN: If we bring the expansion, you can still
be Ashcan Pete, too.

MARISHA: (rough voice) Oh, hell, yeah. Who can?
Ashcan.

TALIESIN: Ashcan Pete!

MATT: Ashcan Pete. He's the best.

TALIESIN: Your Ashcan Pete makes me happy.

MATT: Anyway, guys, awesome work. Ashley, we love
having you.

TRAVIS: Yeah, Ashley!

MATT: Don't go back.

ASHLEY: I know! I don't want to!

TRAVIS: Stay!

ASHLEY: I'm so close.

MATT: Yeah, we get you back soon.

ASHLEY: I have about three and a half to four
weeks. And then I'll be home for a long time.

LAURA: Yay!

MARISHA: Can you do the Skype-y things with us
next week? Do you know?

SAM: Don't pressure her.

TALIESIN: No, no pressure!

MARISHA: I'm allowed. Because I care.

ASHLEY: I don't know. I always hope so, but
sometimes that's proven to be a little bit more

difficult for some reason this season.

LAURA: It's because they made your part so big
this season.

MARISHA: I know!

ASHLEY: Well, doh doh doh.

LAURA: You're so talented and amazing.

TRAVIS: You're the best!

LIAM: Stupid innate ability.

ASHLEY: It's just-- No! It's just time change and
things.

(all laugh)

MATT: I know.

ASHLEY: I love being here, though.

MATT: I know. We miss you.

ASHLEY: Soon! So soon!

MATT: Soon. You'll be back soon. All right,
guys--

LIAM: Do we have an EMT and a stomach pump on hand
for Sam? For after the show?

LAURA: Oh my gosh.

ASHLEY: How's your tummy?

SAM: I ate a lot of sugar and caffeine at the
beginning of this show. I feel very strange.

TALIESIN: There's Big League Chew on the floor.

SAM: There is Big League Chew on the floor.

TALIESIN: There's a little bit of Big League
Chew.

LAURA: Ugh, gross!

MATT: That is disgusting.

SAM: And probably in my lower intestine.

TALIESIN: Wait, wait. Wait.

LAURA: Do not touch that, Taliesin.

MARISHA: No, no, Taliesin! Oh!

MATT: (laughs)

MARISHA: I'm never eating Big League Chew again.

TALIESIN: Good, then something positive has come
out of this.

SAM: It was purple flavor.

LAURA: Ew.

MATT: Purple flavor?

TALIESIN: That's not supposed to be purple.

MATT: Guys, thank you so much. We'll see you next
week. Love to you all and is it Thursday yet?

Good night, guys.

[art]