CREW: Hey, Marisha, it's happening.

MARISHA: Oh, hi! Apparently we're live because
several people just yelled that at me behind the

scenes. That's Sam Riegel. This is Taliesin Jaffe.
I'm Marisha Ray. Good evening internet, Critters,

and Team Hoomaners alike. This is simply a sync
test because apparently for the last several

weeks, days-- It's not one of those sync tests.
We're not recording film.

SAM: Got it.

MARISHA: But that is still probably handy.
(laughs) So this is just me doing a quick test--

man, that-- I don't know how helpful that is.

CREW: Got it.

LAURA: I am so strong.

LIAM: Mosquito.

MARISHA: All right. Thank you guys so much for
tuning in for this technical test.

SAM: Think we're already out.

MARISHA: We will-- are we already out? Oh.

MATT: I got your coffee.

MARISHA: We'll be back for Critical Role in ten
minutes if we're not already out.

TALIESIN: I'm Marisha Ray.

MARISHA: I'm Taliesin Jaffe.

TALIESIN: And this has been--

MARISHA: A wonderful evening.

SAM: Sync-minute.

[music]

MATT: Hello everyone! And welcome to tonight's
episode of Critical Role, where a bunch of us

nerdy-ass voice actors sit around and play
Dungeons and Dragons.

(cheering)

MATT: We're going to go ahead and hop into this
episode soon. Ashley Johnson is on her way. She'll

be joining us shortly, but she's in traffic.
Coming from Santa Monica.

TRAVIS: Ashley Johnson!

MATT: But she's returned, I believe. Like,
returned-returned?

TRAVIS: For a bit.

LAURA: For a while.

MATT: For a while? So that's good.

SAM: Well, we can't be sure.

MATT: I know.

SAM: She could die tonight.

LAURA AND MARISHA: What?

MARISHA: Why would you say that?

SAM: I'm just saying!

LAURA: What are you--

MATT: It's true.

SAM: I'm just saying.

TRAVIS: Take it back!

MATT: Pike could possibly--

SAM: That would be really bad, by the way.

MATT: That'd be really bad if suddenly Pike, like,
'welcome back,' and then Pike just explodes in the

game. It'd be pretty bad.

LAURA: Oh my god.

TALIESIN: Spontaneous combustion.

MATT: Anyway. Before we get into that, let's get
to our announcements for the episode. First and

foremost, guys, we have until April 18th, we have
less than a week left before the Critical Role

survey is closed. So if you hadn't had a chance
yet to help us out, let us know where you're from,

what you like about the show, what kind of things
you'd like to see in the future about the show.

You can go check it out--

LAURA: What your turn-ons are.

MATT: Don't send those.

MARISHA: Your social security number.

MATT: That too.

LIAM: We've seen the fanart. We know.

MATT: Yep (laughs). At geekandsundry.com/crsurvey.
So we've got a few more days. If you haven't yet,

take a moment, fill it out, and we appreciate it.
Thank you guys. Let's see. Taliesin, Wednesday

Club. What you got coming up?

TALIESIN: Oh, Wednesday Club. We're finally--
Because I forgot that I was leaving town for some

reason that I don't remember at all. I don't
remember why I had to leave town for some reason.

LIAM: Die. Just die.

TALIESIN: (laughs) Yeah, we did our funny book
show last week, so this week we're going to do our

Comics 101. It's going to be a lot of fun. We're
going to talk about the basics of how to read

comics, if you're brand new to it or if you have
questions. It'll be fun. We're going to talk about

the amount of time that moves between panels,
thought bubbles, talk bubbles, all the fun stuff.

It'll be great.

MATT: You should bring a copy of Understanding
Comics.

MARISHA: Yeah, you should.

TALIESIN: Yes, Understanding Comics is going to be
talked about.

MATT: Perfect.

TALIESIN: It's a really, really great book.

MATT: Which, by the way, you should get Scott
McCloud on there. If you have a connection, let me

know. Not on Wednesday, but at some point in the
future, I should-- Anyway, we'll talk later. All

right. So also Satine Phoenix's first run on GM
Tips went up today on YouTube. If you have a

chance, check it out. Happily have passed the
torch onto her. She's a dear friend for many

years, an awesome girl with a lot of awesome nerd
cred. And she's bringing her own flavor spin and

her majestic presence to the new run of DM Tips.
So go ahead, check it out. She has a lot of

awesome things to say. And thank you again,
Satine, for doing that and being awesome.

TRAVIS: (high-pitched) Yeah!

MATT: Marisha, Signal Boost! What's new?

MARISHA: Guess who was on this week, you guys?

LAURA: I know, I know.

TALIESIN: Guy Lombardo.

MARISHA: It was our--

SAM: Did you say Don Pardo?

TALIESIN: Guy Lombardo, but Don Pardo would've
been amazing.

MARISHA: No. All great guesses.

TRAVIS: Foster Wayne Brian.

MARISHA: Foster Wayne Brian. Or Foster George
Brian, as I think he was originally tagged. But

Foster Wayne Brian, our very own, from Talks
Machina. He was on. It's a very funny episode. A

lot of us make cameos. He makes a cameo, you make
a cameo.

SAM: I do?

TALIESIN: I do?

MARISHA: I know! You make a cameo. A lot of people
make cameos.

SAM: I did not sign any sort of waiver.

MARISHA: Actually, you don't.

TALIESIN: I was about to say. I watched the
episode.

MARISHA: Matt Key makes a cameo, sorry. Not you.

TALIESIN: So several funny ones.

MARISHA: Not him. But he does.

SAM: I signed no waiver.

MATT: There you go. Thank you, Sam, for a cameo in
the episode you don't remember.

LIAM: You're out.

TRAVIS: We also took some of your semen.

SAM: Oh, cool.

LIAM: Wow.

MATT: (laughs) On that note, I'm flying out
tomorrow to be in Seattle, for Sakura-Con. I'll be

there this weekend.

TRAVIS: Yeah!

MATT: They've got awesome panels. Check out the--
Thank you. Travis is so excited.

TRAVIS: I'm so excited.

MATT: You should come.

TRAVIS: I just love Seattle.

MATT: It is awesome.

TRAVIS: I do. 12th Man. Woo!

MATT: So excited to be there at live panels,
signings and a bunch of fun stuff. Check out their

scheduling to make sure you can come and say hi to
me. I'd like that a lot. So I'll see you guys up

there tomorrow. Tomorrow. And of course we have
Talks Machina coming up every Tuesday at 7PM

Pacific here on Twitch and Alpha. We talk about
whatever this episode is. And I think that's all

we have announcement-wise, right, guys?

TRAVIS: Yeah, that's it.

LAURA: Was it? Was that it?

MATT: Yeah, nice and--

TALIESIN: Oh, and we're still talking about the
con we're doing.

MATT: MomoCon.

TALIESIN: MomoCon.

MATT: That's right. In Atlanta. At the end of May,
May 25th through 28th. So me, Marisha and Taliesin

will be there for that, too, in Atlanta.

LAURA: I have an announcement. I met Sara
Bareilles this weekend.

MARISHA: So jelly.

CREW: Woo!

LAURA: Yeah.

TRAVIS: Oh, one shriek!

LAURA: There was a woo.

MATT: There was.

LAURA: That's all. That was my whole announcement.

TRAVIS: She met her, like, in the flesh. You
didn't cry, did you?

LAURA: I did not cry. Some people that I were with
did cry.

TRAVIS: That I were with. She's still stroking out
from it.

(laughter)

LAURA: And I may have held onto her waist like
this. Can you see my hand? I was like holding-- I

didn't grab her boob, but I grabbed her waist.

TRAVIS: Like mid-rib.

MARISHA: You did creeper?

LAURA: No, like a real strong hug.

LIAM: You didn't go like--

MARISHA: Like a real--

LAURA: Like a real hug.

TRAVIS: Can't run away.

LAURA: I didn't hover hand it. I didn't hover hand
it, I put a hand on her waist.

TALIESIN: Hover hand, man.

TRAVIS: And there's photographic evidence.

LAURA: There is photographic evidence.

TRAVIS: Your life is complete.

MATT: That's pretty badass. Well done.

LAURA: Everything's good. She was like, "Oh my
god, I love Critical Role," and I was like, "I

"know, right?". That's it, that's my whole
announcement.

(laughter)

LIAM: She strictly plays Shadowrun.

(laughter)

MATT: I always took her for a decker.

(laughter)

MATT: Anyway. Let's go ahead and dive in to
tonight's episode of Critical Role.

[dramatic music]

MATT: And welcome back. So, as we last left off,
Vox Machina had found themselves finishing up

dangling loose threads after they had completed
the destruction of the Chroma Conclave and

essentially brought what seems to be, for the time
being, peace to Tal'Dorei. You helped Keyleth

complete her Aramente, where she was crowned the Voice
of the Tempest. And you all had one wandering

thread of Hotis, the rakshasa, which you have now
killed twice and kept returning to the Nine Hells

to recoup and threaten to come and slay and you
and everything you love in the near future. So to

cut that off at the head, you guys traveled to the
second layer of Hell, the Iron City of Dis, to hunt

down this rakshasa. After signing a contract with
a devil, getting the proper information in this

regard of where it was within the Bastion of Flesh
in the subterranean prison known as Mentiri, you

slaughtered a pit fiend named Utugash, and in
response to that, as part of the contract, you

were given passage into this prison with your
equipment. You began a madcap rush through the

prison, given the directions that you were
presented as part of this deal you had made. You

turned into a flock of bats, rushed in with a new
friend, a dwarvish Blood Hunter, a werebear,

particularly the Order of the Lycan--

LAURA: Hot!

MATT: -- named Tova, who you had discovered in
Utugash's lair. You all, as bats, flew through,

averted a number of blockades, managed to just get
the attention of a few devils that couldn't catch up

to you in time, and basically the entire prison
began to converge on you as you reached the

central area where this rakshasa was. Couple of
scuffles in transition to that area. You were

attacked by a large construct made of black chains
from this lower area of the hell. Averting its

actual battle presence, you systematically went
through the doorways to discover the one that

housed Hotis. Of which, he was quickly destroyed
while still in his larval, reforming form by Grog.

You all battled through the swath of chains that
were binding and pulling you back as you all

reached out to join hands in time for Keyleth to
pull out her tuned fork to the Prime Material

Plane and cast Plane Shift, and you all vanished
into a familiar flash of whitish-green light. And

that is where we left off. So, picking up where we
left off. You all instantaneously feel the surge

of magical energy burst through your body and all
the chains that had tightened around, were

threatening to crush your limbs and tear your body
into a mass of crushed flesh and blood, release at

once. And you have that familiar sense of floating
and darkness once more. And you see that single

bead of light ahead that grows larger and larger
and larger, and that light becomes omnipresent,

almost, in size, a familiar grid of divine fire
and light. The Divine Gate, ancient and placed by

the gods to seal both them, the betrayer gods, and
any entities post-Divergence away. You transition

once more through this lattice, impacting, the
searing warmth just barely cresting the exterior

of your form, leaving no damage to your soul,
spirit, or physical body, but just enough to shake

you as you pass through one of these small, porous
holes in the gate itself. Glancing over your

shoulder, you can see small little sparks that
represent your friends who are traveling as well

through this planar tunnel. As the lattice of the
Divine Gate shifts and darkens behind you, you see

a secondary small blue doorway come rocketing
towards you all and suddenly your feet hit the

ground. And as your eyes focus and look around,
you are in the late afternoon, standing on the

dirt ground, familiar scent, of a crisp,
end-of-day Whitestone afternoon/evening. You guys

are not at the Sun Tree. You are by the southern
portion of it, not far from the farmhand who

commissioned your portrait, Jameson. But the city
is there before you. The streets aren't cluttered

with people.

LAURA: Not your portrait.

SAM: I don't know who that is.

MATT: Well, Scanlan. Sorry. We're still getting
over it.

TRAVIS: You know, that guy that played at your
father's whatever.

SAM: Yeah.

LAURA: Yeah.

MATT: So, as you all arrive, touch down, the
familiar scent. The smiles come over you, knowing

that you've managed to successfully return to a
comfortable homestead. The sky is broken with

clouds. But you can still see some of the dark
blue behind it starting to turn purples and

oranges, as the sun, though out of sight, is
hitting dusk. A few people look over and glance

and you hear whispers as people begin to recognize
your arrival with a flashy spark of light and that

slight Terminator-like slow rise from a crouch
position as you all pull out of the other side of

the portal.

TRAVIS: (sings Terminator theme)

MATT: Yes.

MARISHA: Yeah, that's cool.

LAURA: And we're all naked.

MARISHA: Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.

TALIESIN: Where is John Connor?

LIAM: Have you seen this boy?

TRAVIS: No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.

MATT: No, you're fine. You're all still clothed.

TRAVIS: Fuuuu--

LAURA: All right. I had this feeling-- I felt like
we were not going to get here. I felt like we were

going to show up somewhere else. I don't know
why.

LIAM: This is a sight better than the Nine Hells.

TRAVIS: Could we have done that any closer to the
razor's edge? I'm just saying.

LAURA: Keyleth. Clutch.

TALIESIN: I think all things considered, that went
rather well. Taryon? Are you all right? Are you

all right?

SAM: Yes. I'm fine.

TALIESIN: It is very reasonable not to be all
right after that. I think I'm going to need a

moment to sit down and have a drink--

TRAVIS: Yep.

LAURA: I pop Trinket out and I heal him.

MATT: Okay. Trinket pops out.

LAURA: Hey! We're safe!

TALIESIN: I pull out a bottle of something.

LAURA: It's good.

MATT: And immediately goes from 'fierce bear' to
'I'm hurting, help me, mommy.'

LAURA: I know. I'm going to do a spell, buddy.

MATT: Guard laid down, the bear is just rubbing
against you--

LAURA: I've got a level three. I'm going to do it
at level three.

MATT: Okay. The armor clinks and scrapes against
you as the bits of fur which are matted with its

own blood slowly heal as you touch the soft--
caress your fingers across the bear fur.

LAURA: Oh my god.

(laughter)

TALIESIN: Did you fail a petting a--

MATT: Three ones?

TRAVIS: Trip ones.

MATT: You finish healing Trinket, somewhat.

LAURA: I think I wasn't even supposed to get
three-- I'm only supposed to get two because it's

a level three.

TRAVIS: Well you still get two ones.

LAURA: Whatever.

MATT: Did you not have a third-level spell left?

LAURA: No, I do have a 3rd-level spell so it's--

MATT: So it's at third level--

LAURA: Oh, yeah, yeah. Okay.

MATT: It works. Yeah, you're fine. So you finish
healing. The wounds close somewhat and Trinket

goes, (questioning growl).

LAURA: I'm sorry. I feel a little shaken up from
that, I'm sorry. But you have some resting,

you know.

MATT: Licks the side of your cheek and is like--
(bear sounds) There is one 13-year-old kid off to

the side that's watching this whole thing go down
and just goes, "Is that your bear?"

LAURA: It is. Why? Do you want to pet him?

MATT: "No."

LAURA: Yes, you do. Trinket, go show some love.

LIAM: Slow, slow, don't scare the boy.

LAURA: Good-- Happy love.

MATT: The kid's trying to back up he's like, "Uh,
uh."

LAURA: I mean. Ooh--

TRAVIS: Don't run, don't run! He attacks with his
teeth if you run.

MATT: "Uh."

TRAVIS: Yeah, freeze. Nose up. Let him see your
nose hairs.

MATT: You can see this scrawny boy is frozen in
place and is partially trying to puff his chest

but also is-- you can see him fighting the
instinct to just run.

LIAM: If you hum to him, it soothes him.

MATT: (tentative humming) This little-- young
boy starts humming, and it's off-key but Trinket

walks up.

LAURA: No-- There it is.

MATT: You watch that moment the eyes just go open
wide and white before (slurps) up the side of the

boy's face.

LAURA: It's good that you hummed. It was really
good. It was good humming.

MATT: And then Trinket turns around and shoulder
checks him and knocks him onto his ass and walks

back to you.

TRAVIS: Good nose action.

LAURA: Yep.

MARISHA: 30 seconds back in Tal'Dorei and we're
tormenting people.

LAURA: No, no, no, he liked it. It was sweet.

MARISHA: That's us. That's good.

TRAVIS: Yeah.

TALIESIN: This trip has changed us.

TRAVIS: Human relations.

MARISHA: I'm not complaining, I very much approve.
Feels like old us.

LAURA: It's nice not to hear screams of torment at
all times.

LIAM: Guys, guys. We have fuck-all to do right
now. We have nothing to do.

What do you want to do?

TALIESIN: Well, we've got a robot to reconstruct.

TRAVIS: What?

LAURA: Oh, Tary.

SAM: Yes.

TRAVIS: Oh.

TALIESIN: I'm going-- I will help with that. I've
got a very, very large--

LAURA: Are you all right?

SAM: I'm fine. You know, we-- adventurers lose
people in battle all the time, right? And we have

a-- it's nothing, right? It's totally normal. This
happens all the time, right?

LIAM: It's actually quite painful and the hurt
never goes away.

TALIESIN: I pass the last of the Green Tear
Whisky. For Dotty. Doty.

SAM: No.

TALIESIN: For Doty.

LAURA: (laughs) Dotty. D.T. Dotye.

SAM: No thank you, I'm not-- I don't know. I--
(sighs) He's-- I don't feel it would be right to

celebrate right now.

TALIESIN: This is not celebration.

TRAVIS: Yeah. How long did you have Do-oh-ty?

LAURA: Have you ever lost him before?

SAM: No.

LAURA: I'm sorry.

MARISHA: Have you lost anyone close to you
before?

SAM: No, I haven't.

MARISHA: Well then, you should know that that's
not celebration.

TALIESIN: This is acknowledgement.

LIAM: That's right.

SAM: All right.

MARISHA: This is coming to terms with a little bit
of help.

SAM: I'll take a sip to Doty. My best friend.

TALIESIN: Your oldest friend.

SAM: My only friend.

TALIESIN: Not anymore.

MARISHA: To Doty.

TALIESIN: Your oldest friend, not your only
friend.

TRAVIS: To the thing.

TALIESIN: When you're ready, we'll fix one up.

SAM: It won't be the same. I know it sounds silly,
but I created him. And he's just mechanical, but I

feel like he understood me better than anyone
else.

TALIESIN: No, that's not crazy.

LAURA: Well, he listened probably better than
anyone else.

SAM: But I could tell by his eyes that he sort of
got it, he understood. Maybe I was just

projecting, I don't know.

TALIESIN: Even if you were, it's--

SAM: I suppose I could build another, it just
won't feel the same. I-- (sighs)

TALIESIN: How else will you chronicle Doty's
adventures if not with a new chronicler?

SAM: You're right.

MARISHA: Exactly. Doty will live on in your
stories.

TALIESIN: And we'll fill in everything that's been
missed.

SAM: Yes, you're right, you're right, yes. With
some resources and some time, and a little help,

maybe I can build a new Doty.

LAURA: Only when you're ready, dear.

TALIESIN: We definitely have resources, time, and
help.

LIAM: And also, don't need to party or anything,
but three cheers to you. You just survived hell

and back.

SAM: Yes. I did, didn't I?

LAURA: Was that on your list?

SAM: Hell was not, but a revenge plot was.

TRAVIS: Oh!

LAURA: Nice!

TRAVIS: Yeah!

SAM: And this was a revenge, so I think we can
tick that off. (sighs)

TRAVIS: How does it feel being such an
accomplished adventurer now?

SAM: Well, I've been giving that a lot of thought,
actually. In fact, if you will humor me, can I

read you all something?

LIAM: Yes. Percy, pass the bottle.

TALIESIN: Drag the last of all the bottles out
this time.

SAM: If we're honoring Doty, I'd love to read to
you the last thing that he wrote, well, transcribed

before we went into the Hells.

LAURA: I'm really excited to hear it.

MARISHA: That'd be beautiful.

SAM: As sort of a memorial to him. This was the
last page before. "Doty, take this down." He

always writes everything. "As I, Taryon
Darrington, embark on a mission into the very

"depths of hell, I do so with no fear or
hesitation. Though this undertaking is fraught

"with peril, I have a secret weapon that no
inferno, monster or hellhound can defeat. I am

"flanked by the ferocious band of mercenaries known
as Vox Machina. In the days since meeting this

"ragtag company, our relationship has blossomed. At
first, I was viewed as a suspicious outsider, then

"as a gallant and trusted colleague, and now,
having proven my mettle, accepted as a lifelong

"brother and full-fledged teammate. No matter what
we face in the Abyss, my comrades would risk their

"lives for me, kill for me, and I'm 100% sure each
would gladly give his or her life to save mine.

"Loyalty like that, you can't put a price on it.
But, if I had to, I'd say their friendship is

"worth about 210,000 gold. Which, even to me, is a
relatively large amount of money. Their faith

"emboldens me."

(laughter)

LIAM: This is out of character.

SAM: "But it's more than that. I've started to
wonder. If I have so easily won the confidence of

"these battled-hardened titans, perhaps I am even
more venerable, more impressive than I ever knew!

"Perhaps after this mission, I should return home,
newly confident, to confront my father once and

"for all. Maybe the time has come to complete my
journey here and show my family that I am indeed

"worthy to carry the Darrington name. But first,
revenge! Soon we will venture to where nightmares

"are born, and it's going to be fun, fun, fun.
That's all for now, Doty. As always, correct my

"grammatical errors before you rest and go fetch my
sleep mask and nightshirt."

And then we went to hell.

LAURA: That was beautiful. That was--

TALIESIN: Eloquent, very eloquent.

SAM: He was a special, special robot and--

LAURA: Yes.

SAM: -- he was there for me in all of my darkest
times and lightest times and now that he's not

there anymore, I just-- I should feel very
lonely, but I don't, because I am surrounded by

people who truly respect me for who I am. And I
know that in that last night before we went to the

Hells I wrote that I was ready, finally, to go
back and confront my father, but now in the

absence of Doty, I've decided to put that aside
and stay with you all. Yes, I feel my place is

here with you, my rightful place. I won't have
access to as much money, but everything else about

me will stay the same. And I know that you are all
happy that I've made this decision to stay with

you as a now-poor adventurer. So maybe this is
worth celebrating, I don't know, should we go have

a drink in a pub or something?

LIAM: Yes, we should.

TALIESIN: We should, yes.

LIAM: Yes, we should.

MARISHA: Definitely.

TRAVIS: I have a question. What is a sleep mask?

SAM: I don't like seeing lights at night, it wakes
me out of my dream state, so--

TRAVIS: Does it go over your whole head?

SAM: Just my eyes and nose, just the top of the
nose.

LAURA: Just the smallest of questions, though. The
amount that you wrote down, would we be seeing

that before you cut off ties?

SAM: I don't think we should venture up there
right now.

LAURA: Right. Yeah.

SAM: We have adventuring to do, don't we? Things
to help rebuild, and--

LAURA: I mean, we may be here for a while.

TALIESIN: We may be taking a bit of a break.

LIAM: It was a funny moment in time when you met
us, Taryon.

SAM: Yes?

LIAM: We had a bit of a list, we've had a couple
lists, and we've checked an awful lot off of them,

and we're real tired. We're thinking of taking it
easy for a bit.

LAURA: Wouldn't it be fun, though, to just set up
shop here and hang out--

LIAM: Tinker, design--

MARISHA: You could repair things for small change
on the side.

LAURA: Yeah, yeah, yeah! That's how you could make
some money, maybe tinker for a living.

SAM: Sure. I mean, I haven't tinkered for money
before, do you get, what, two, three thousand gold

per little--

TALIESIN: A year, yes.

SAM: Per year?

LAURA: Yeah, thereabouts.

TALIESIN: Well, tinkering, to be fair, I don't
actually know what tinkering pays because I've

never been paid to do it.

SAM: Is there anything that pays much, much more
than that?

MARISHA: Being a hero and adventuring or being
born into privilege.

LAURA: A lot of money.

TALIESIN: A lot of money.

SAM: But you know what? I'm ready to set aside
money for now, and just live my life and be my own

man. Because if I do, when I do eventually go
home, I don't want to seem like I'm trying to

prove something to him. I just want to be my own
man, right? And have him accept me for that, like

you all have.

TALIESIN: Well... I mean, yes.

TRAVIS: I know there's a lot of money in being a
man whore.

SAM: A man whore?

TRAVIS: Yeah. Sell your body, you know? Put that
hair to good use.

LAURA: That is true, Taryon.

TRAVIS: Start making some coin.

LAURA: You are a pretty boy.

LIAM: It's true.

SAM: My hair.

TALIESIN: You don't actually have to listen to a
man who needed an eye mask

explained to him, but--

SAM: Who will brush my hair at night?

TALIESIN: Well, that's a conundrum.

LAURA: Well, you know, you could make a new Doty,
maybe a smaller Doty, just to brush hair.

SAM: Yes, I will. Will you help me?

TALIESIN: Yes, of course.

MARISHA: Plus, you know, if you're wanting to
become a more independent and solitary man, then

maybe you learn how to brush your own hair.

SAM: As always, wise words, Keyleth.

MARISHA: Thank you.

TALIESIN: Hell has done something to you.

LIAM: Also, we feel very badly about Doty,
obviously, and I hope that you can build a

replacement, but in all the years that you were
with him, did you ever have a sweetheart or an

acquaintance, even?

SAM: Nothing to speak of.

LIAM: I mean, if you can push yourself to go to
the Nine Hells, you can go out to a tavern with us

and meet people.

LAURA: That's right, get a little funsy action
there.

SAM: Are you talking about intercourse?

TALIESIN: Well, at the very least we're talking
about advanced flirting, at the very least.

LAURA: Yeah, yeah, that's good.

MARISHA: Courtship. And Vax over here is a great
wingman. Get it? Because he's--

SAM: I could try that out, sure, yeah, that's a
great idea. Yes!

TRAVIS: Try that out?

MARISHA: Thank you!

LIAM: Do you-- this is forward, do you go rogue or
ranger, or-- Taco or hot dog, or--

SAM: I do not understand what you are saying.

TALIESIN: I suppose if there's liquor, we could
find out!

SAM: Rogue or ranger!

TRAVIS: You know what, we're going to find out,
right? Let's just roll the dice

and see where they fall.

LIAM: We've got to teach you some slang, buddy.
You've got to learn some slang.

SAM: All right, all right! Yes, let's go!

LAURA: No, but seriously, though, the money
situation though, like, really, you are paying--

TRAVIS: It's okay, it's okay.

LAURA: No, but, you know, you always said you pay
your debts and all that, so you have some, so I

just wanted to make sure that that's actually
happening.

LIAM: Maybe we could get to that tomorrow.

LAURA: No, because I feel really bad for you, I
feel bad about everything, and I'm pretty happy

for you for being your own man and all of that, I
just want to make sure that--

SAM: No, it's fine. I could probably figure out
how much I currently have. It's just, Doty used to

keep track of that for me.

LAURA: I can keep track of it for you, gladly!

LIAM: Can I insight him to see if this is
bullshit, or legitimate tears?

MATT: Sure.

LIAM: I'm outta Luck, too. Hold on, hold on.

TALIESIN: That's so exciting.

SAM: Do I have to roll against it?

MATT: Just roll, just roll.

LIAM: Oh, it's terrible.

SAM: This is worse.

TRAVIS: No, there's no way.

LAURA: Doubtful. What did you get?

SAM: This is three.

LIAM: Five!

SAM: What are we rolling?

LAURA: Wait, what did you add? What did you add to
him?

MATT: Persuasion if you're honest, deception if
you're not. Don't tell me which one it is.

LIAM: But then tell the number.

SAM: Oh! Five.

LAURA: Five and five! What does that mean?

MATT: Five and five? It meets the DC, so tell
him.

SAM: I have 34,000 gold pieces.

LAURA: I thought you said you had a lot of money!

(laughter)

MARISHA: She said, out of accent, appalled.

LAURA: Because I'm completely out of character!

LIAM: Where's my money, Taryon?

MARISHA: She's so incensed, she dropped accent!

LAURA: Okay, no, no, I wasn't Vex then!

MARISHA: Yeah!

MATT: So Vax, here's how it works. In character,
Vax, you get the sense that--

LIAM: Wait, wait, wait, Vex or Vax?

MATT: Vax, because you're the one who read this.
As all this is happening, you get the sense that

maybe he's not currently worth as much as he leads
on.

LIAM: I was also curious if the tears felt like
crocodile tears, or--

SAM: Oh, just at that last moment?

LIAM: Yeah. Yeah, were you really, like--

SAM: I just didn't want to tell her how money I
have--

LIAM: Right, so it's bullshit.

SAM: -- but before, I'm genuinely sad about Doty!

LIAM: Absolutely, but in this moment, a little
bullshitty.

MATT: In this moment, a little bullshitty, I
think.

SAM: Yes.

LAURA: I didn't read any of that.

LIAM: We can talk about this tomorrow. Let's just
go get him drunk, he'll probably tell you if he's

drunk. I'm sorry, you're right in front of me.
Let's go have a drink!

MARISHA: Are we still in the middle of farmlands,
or are we walking?

MATT: You guys are in the street, so you're slowly
walking through the streets of Whitestone.

MARISHA: All right, okay.

MATT: If you're looking for a pub in particular,
the one you usually go to is the Tipsy Quorum, if

that's where you're going to get a drink.

LAURA: That's my favorite.

TRAVIS: I always forget the name.

MARISHA: Old faithful.

TALIESIN: It's the best bars where you always
forget the name, isn't it?

TRAVIS: Yep!

LAURA: Yeah.

MATT: On the way, because this is on the more
northern side, northeastern side of Whitestone,

you do see there is a crowd of people. What looks
to be a caravan is being packed up. There are a

number of carts and horses and things are being
loaded up for what looks to be some sort of a

fairly large travel pack of people. You do hear
the laughter of children coming from the right of

you, and then pushing through the crowd, you see
Odessa, Illya, and Gren Tal'Dorei, the children,

go running past as they're being chased by two
aasimar boys, blue skin, running past them, and

they're giving a joking chase tickle. And all of a
sudden one of the kids comes around with a stick,

and he stops and puts his hands up, and they all
look over and see you guys and immediately get

sheepish with their hands to the side. You see
Kyor nods, and Hunin nods, the kids go running off

again, not really paying attention to you guys--

LAURA: Well, go get 'em!

MATT: "Uh-huh!" They both continue off after the
kids just as Salda Tal'Dorei walks up from between

some of the Pale Guard that are currently helping
load things onto these carts. And she sees you

all, and comes forth, "Oh, my goodness! It's so
great to see you all safe and sound!"

TALIESIN: Your majesty.

MARISHA: Hello.

MATT: The last few times you've seen her, she's
looked a little frazzled but still with what

remains of her formal attire which she had on her
after the attack on Tal'Dorei. Right now, she's

dressed very simply. You wouldn't be able to tell
her from most of the regular casual farmfolk, and

you would have no instinct of the noble lifestyle that
she comes from, and it suits her well. She smiles

and greets, and gives a respectful bow. "So we're
heading back to Emon."

LAURA: They'll be happy to have you.

MATT: "It's been a while, and now that things have
calmed down, and from what we've heard that you've

"all saved the city, I guess, we're going to bring
the children back to their home. We're going to be

"taking the Parchwood Way to the Silvercut Roadway,
and we have guardians, we have people we've hired

"or have agreed to come along and keep us safe. The
children have taken a shine to the boys, as if you

"haven't noticed. If it's all right, we're thinking
of bringing them with us."

LAURA: That's wonderful.

MARISHA: It's very kind of you.

TALIESIN: Quite gracious.

MATT: "We have the Alabaster Lyceum-- once it's up
and running again, of course-- and I know the

"headmaster there. We can provide a good education
for the boys, which, upon talking with them, I

"think they're both in dire need of."

LAURA: Do you need any help with that? We feel a
bit of responsibility for them.

MATT: "Really, it's fine. You guys have done
enough anyway, and to be honest, I believe your

"sister needs your help here more than we could on
the journey there."

LIAM: Do your kids-- holding up okay?

MATT: "Yeah. We've done as best as we could to
shield them from the brunt of the past few months,

"but things are cheerier here, definitely, and I
think they've

"taken that upon themselves as well."

MARISHA: Just be prepared, the Emon you left isn't
necessarily the Emon you'll be returning to. It's

getting better, but it takes time.

MATT: "I can assure you that my memory of the
place, at least the moments before we left,

"couldn't be any more dire than we could return to.
Any semblance of calm at our home is welcome.

"But--" and she glances over-- "I think Odessa has
a crush on Hunin. I don't want to break her heart

"by keeping them too far away, so that's--"

LIAM: Cool mom.

MATT: "Anyway, I think we're preparing to set out
first thing in the morning, and I just want to say

"thank you for everything."

LAURA: Any time. Sorry we couldn't do more.

MATT: "You've done plenty. I do hope to see you if
you decide to still be a part of the Council,

"satellite or not."

LAURA: Grayskull is still there!

MATT: "Well, I mean, the children shouldn't be too
far, then! Anyway, I should go catch up to them.

"It's good to see you all."

TALIESIN: It's good to see you as well.

MATT: She glances over at you with a curious
look.

SAM: Good day.

MATT: "Good day."

TALIESIN: He's new, but he's proving himself quite
well.

MARISHA: He's fine.

SAM: I just lost my best friend.

MARISHA: He's fine.

MATT: "I'm sorry to hear that. That's terrible. I
understand the difficulty of loss,

"believe you me."

SAM: Does it get better?

MATT: "It does. With people like this around you,
people like them around me, it does."

SAM: Thank you, kind stranger.

MATT: "You as well, kind stranger." She continues
walking on and catches up with the kids.

SAM: She seems neat.

TALIESIN: Yes, neat. Neat would be the word I
would-- she does all right.

MARISHA: That's the most awkward post-conversation
conversation I have ever had.

LAURA: Yeah, yeah, that's pretty awkward.

TALIESIN: Well, there's a pub over there.

LAURA: Let's go get him laid.

TALIESIN: Do I see a soldier of any kind, on
this--

MATT: Oh yeah, there's a number of Pale Guard that
have been assigned to this caravan that are

helping put things onto the various carts.

TALIESIN: I'm just tapping one. When you're done,
please let the palace know that we have returned.

MATT: "Oh, yes, of course, sir. It will be done."

TALIESIN: We've returned for good, for a while, so
no immediate threat anymore.

TRAVIS: We went to hell.

MATT: "I will do this. I will do this
immediately."

MARISHA: (yells) We'll be in the pub!

(laughter)

MATT: "Right." He finishes putting one of the last
bags up and then starts making his way up towards

Castle Whitestone. You guys continue your foot
journey over to the tavern.

LAURA: I get on my broom and continue the
journey.

LIAM: Had a little too much of Percy's hooch?
What's the matter?

MATT: As you guys start making your way towards
the tavern, you hear a series of heavy metallic

footfalls behind you with accelerated pace,
quickening, quickening. And you glance over your

shoulder and rushing from the caravan, apparently
in the process of helping it being set up and part

of the party that brought or is spearheading the
organization of this caravan, you see a small

gnomish cleric in plate armor.

(cheering)

ASHLEY: Hello!

MATT: Come on in!

LIAM: She's back, baby! She's back!

ASHLEY: Ah! Hello, everybody!

MATT: This is in character, by the way.

MARISHA: How was traffic?

ASHLEY: Oh, hi! Oh, just so terrible!

MARISHA: With the caravan!

ASHLEY: Hello, everybody!

LAURA: Hi!

ASHLEY: Hi!

MATT: So Pike, having come along, as you've been
helping out with the reconstruction effort in Emon

and was notified that some of the remaining royals
of the family of the Sovereign were going to make

their way towards Emon, the least you could do was
be a part of that. So you ushered a number of the

travel carts that were intended for this part of
the caravan, since Whitestone had to maintain most

of their hardware within the city to remain
functional, and you just arrived in the city a few

days ago, and as you've been helping these people
prepare and organize the whole endeavor, you just

watch Vox Machina, your family, walk by and start
making their way towards one of the taverns just

as the sun's setting. And you rush up to catch up
with them.

ASHLEY: Hey! Hey! You're just going to walk by?

LAURA: We didn't even see you! Oh my god!

ASHLEY: Oh, hi. Oh, hey! Hey!

TRAVIS: Oh, man, Pike! Look! Look who it is!

ASHLEY: Hi, hello Taryon.

SAM: Hello, Pike.

ASHLEY: Hello.

SAM: Hello. Hello.

MARISHA: We're so sorry, we know you really wanted
to go to the Hells with us--

LAURA: We went to hell.

MARISHA: -- but we couldn't wait, so we had to go.
We're so sorry.

ASHLEY: I heard.

LIAM: It was awful. You would not have liked it.

ASHLEY: I imagine it's awful, and I just think I
was a little nervous about going there, because I

don't know how that would affect me.

SAM: Oh, that seems like a justification, sure.

LAURA: Really?

ASHLEY: Just selfishly speaking, I feel like maybe
it wouldn't have been good.

TRAVIS: Like what? Like, you would have gone dark
Pike or something?

LAURA: It probably would have been-- Like, you
would have gone evil-evil?

ASHLEY: Maybe? I feel like it would have affected
me in certain ways, or, you know,

I just don't know!

MARISHA: It was very hot!

TRAVIS: That's not a risk we want to take.

ASHLEY: No, it's probably safe that I didn't.

LAURA: That's true, you would have been really hot
in your armor.

MARISHA: Yeah, it made my cheeks really red.

TALIESIN: We may have eaten some souls.

ASHLEY: You have a little bit of a glow!

MARISHA: Really?

LAURA: Percy ate a soul!

ASHLEY: You ate a soul? What did it taste like?

TRAVIS: Why would you even volunteer that?

TALIESIN: Well--

LAURA: Percy signed a contract with a devil!

TALIESIN: Well, I may have signed a contract with
a devil.

ASHLEY: Percy. What do you mean?

TALIESIN: Well, we were in hell, it's just--

TRAVIS: It's just what you do!

ASHLEY: When in hell--

LIAM: You go to a casino in Marquet, you gamble.
You go to hell--

LAURA: You go to hell, you sign a contract!

TALIESIN: You sign a contract with a devil, I'm
never going to do anything with it.

ASHLEY: What is it?

TALIESIN: Honestly, it was mostly just to take
care of our little problem, and in return, I have

the option of--

LAURA: Selling his soul.

TALIESIN: -- selling my soul for power that I
don't really need, because I have everything I

need right here.

TRAVIS: Did we even tell her why we went to hell?

TALIESIN: She knows why went to hell.

ASHLEY: I know why.

TRAVIS: Oh. Hey!

ASHLEY: And I think, word on the street is that
you completed that mission.

LAURA: We did, we did.

TALIESIN: Yes.

TRAVIS: The word on the street?

MARISHA: We went kitten-smushing.

LAURA: She scries, she sees shit.

ASHLEY: I just heard on the street from that guy.
He just told me what just happened. It's crazy.

(laughter)

MARISHA: A newsie runs by--

TRAVIS: Screaming in terror.

LAURA: We're about to get some alcohol, do you
want to join us?

ASHLEY: Perfect timing! Perfect timing.

TALIESIN: Extra, extra!

MARISHA: Read all about it!

ASHLEY: If you guys don't mind, just pick up the
rest of the carts, all of it. I haven't seen them

in so long.

LAURA: All the carts.

MATT: "Of course."

TALIESIN: She's being commandeered.

LAURA: Yeah.

MATT: "Yes. All right, we'll continue. You've done
your work for the day."

LAURA: Important business of state.

ASHLEY: Okay. So much stuff to do and discuss.

LAURA: Yeah, it's really important.

TRAVIS: Yeah. Yup.

MATT: You get the sense from the guard that he
probably wasn't introduced to you before, doesn't

know who you are, and figured a gnome probably
wouldn't be very helpful putting things into a

cart very high up, so what slight hint of racism
you might have caught in the undertone of his

statement, you're like, whatever, it's fine.

ASHLEY: Whatever. He was just a little bit rude to
me, so I don't really mind.

TRAVIS: Who was?

ASHLEY: It's fine, don't be mad.

TRAVIS: Who? Just point him out! Point him out. He
doesn't need his ears anymore.

LIAM: He's just set in his ways.

ASHLEY: I just feel like he wasn't very
appreciative, and I was working very hard.

TRAVIS: You probably were! I see sweat!

ASHLEY: And you know how strong I am!

TRAVIS: You're real strong!

LAURA: You're so strong!

ASHLEY: What I lack in height, I make up for in
strength.

LAURA: That's right.

LIAM: Show us the guns.

LAURA: You could beat me in an arm wrestling
match! They're huge.

TRAVIS: Those are pythons.

ASHLEY: Let's go drink!

MARISHA: Yeah!

LIAM: Yeah.

LAURA: Oh, I'm so sorry. Taryon lost his best
friend.

ASHLEY: Oh. Who was your best--

LAURA: The big creepy robot that drew us.

ASHLEY: Oh, no, Tary.

SAM: Yeah. Yeah, it's rough. It's rough. But these
fellows have told me that they're going to take my

mind off it with some flirting tonight.

LAURA: Yeah.

ASHLEY: With some flirting!

SAM: Yes. Yes.

ASHLEY: Ooh, flirting can take your mind off lots
of things.

TALIESIN: That's so true.

ASHLEY: Do you have someone in mind that you're
going to flirt with?

SAM: I don't know, I--

LIAM: Yes, what's his or her name?

SAM: I assume you're going to introduce me to
someone?

LAURA: Yeah, yeah, we'll find somebody good.
Super, super good.

TRAVIS: We'll case the landscape.

LIAM: If you tell us--

MARISHA: Wait, do we know people other than
ourselves?

TRAVIS: Nope.

TALIESIN: We do, we know lots of people.

LAURA: Here? We know Gilmore, he flirts really
good.

MARISHA: Oh yeah, we know Gilmore!

SAM: Anyone you point out to me, I'm pretty sure I
can woo.

TRAVIS: Holy shit.

LAURA: Okay.

LIAM: Well, let's put your best foot forward.

SAM: Sure.

LIAM: What should we be looking for?

SAM: Someone attractive--

LIAM: Yes.

LAURA: Right.

SAM: -- someone who can have an intellectual
conversation--

LIAM: Let's just talk aesthetics, because once you
get into it, then you get to know the person.

TRAVIS: Yeah, what's your type?

LIAM: This person, what does this person look
like? Does this person--

SAM: Tall. Strong.

LAURA: Okay. Yeah.

SAM: Fair-skinned.

LAURA: Ooh, okay.

TALIESIN: Basically Grog, so far.

SAM: That's about it.

MARISHA: Yeah, do you want Grog?

SAM: Oh, heavens no.

TRAVIS: What do you mean, no?

LIAM: That is a lot of man.

SAM: I mean, you're perfectly attractive to some
people, I'm sure, but you're just not my type, I

suppose?

TRAVIS: Uh-huh.

LAURA: Too muscly? Too bald.

TRAVIS: No accounting for taste.

LAURA: Too much body odor. Which one?

SAM: All of those things.

LAURA: Got it.

TALIESIN: All right.

TRAVIS: I do have a lot of those things.

LAURA: So someone more like Keyleth would be
along-- someone lithe and sculpted.

SAM: I should be so lucky to have a mate as
capable as Keyleth.

TRAVIS: A mate.

LAURA: Oh. That was really uncomfortable.

TALIESIN: That was an interesting word, yeah, that
just brought the whole thing.

MARISHA: Yeah, you're knocking this flirting 
thing right out of the park.

SAM: Don't worry, I can hold my own.

TRAVIS: You know what, best to just throw him to
the wolves. Let's just get after it.

SAM: I'll be fine.

TALIESIN: Well, not literal wolves.

ASHLEY: And maybe just don't go right to "mate,"
you know, "you're my mate" right from the get-go,

because that might freak somebody out.

LAURA: Yeah, or, "I want to mate with you." That's
probably bad as well.

MARISHA: Just don't use the word "mate," not even
in the buddy sense.

SAM: All right. Okay.

TALIESIN: Yeah, "you're my mate."

MARISHA: "You're my mate."

LAURA: That's okay, that's all right.

SAM: I'm feeling confident.

LAURA: That's good.

SAM: Remember, I'm a Darrington. I can walk into
any establishment and find a young lass who has

heard of me and take her home for the night.

TALIESIN: Oh, well.

LIAM: There it is.

TRAVIS: Good, good, okay.

ASHLEY: Well, there it is. That's what we're
looking for.

LAURA: All right, cool, that's good, yeah, that's
good.

TALIESIN: I felt pretty good on that one.

MARISHA: Hard cut!

(laughter)

SAM: Can we do that? Is that something you can
do?

TRAVIS: Smash cut to--

TALIESIN: It's Dungeons & Dragons, man!

LAURA: Rejection, rejection, rejection!

MATT: The best montage ever.

TALIESIN: Roll for montage.

MARISHA: Roll for montage!

MATT: As you guys make your way into the Tipsy
Quorum, the warm interior is comfortable to you

guys. You recall most of it, as most of the time
you've spent in there has been in various states

of intoxication. There's a beautiful hearth on the
north end of the complex. I say "complex" because

it's a series of rooms. There's the main tavern
area in which the drinking happens. There's a

small eating area that's separate from that, so
they keep the localized tavern central area on its

own. There's a kitchen, an open kitchen, so all
the smoke and the food smell comes just barreling

through. It's pretty sparse, mainly because a lot
of the people are in the process of helping with

the tavern, or they just haven't quite hit that
point in the evening. Dusk is when people start

finishing their work for the day, and they usually
come in in the next couple hours or so. But you do

see a couple of the Pale Guard are currently just
taking a break. There's a handful of farmhands

that are just in there, finishing a small
breakfast and having some drinks. There's the

bartender and a few bar handlers, a barmaid just
waiting for customers to come in. And as you

enter, immediately she goes from leaning on the
back wall. "Oh, hah, sorry!" And she comes up and

shows you guys to-- "Any table you like!"

LAURA: What does she look like?

MATT: She looks late 40s, probably had a few kids.
She's not unattractive, she's not going to be

blowing anyone's mind, per se-- she's a working
woman, she's confident, it seems, and she knows

her job. She's a lady.

LAURA: You've got a good shot over there with
that--

TRAVIS: (loudly) Do you have food and drink in
this establishment?

LAURA: She's a female.

MATT: "We got both!"

TRAVIS: Do you have turkey legs?

TALIESIN: Halfway there already.

MATT: "Turkey legs?"

TRAVIS: Turkey legs.

MATT: "We got the best turkey legs in
Whitestone."

ASHLEY: Ooh!

TRAVIS: Shit, the gauntlet has been thrown down. I
need two turkey legs for each one of these

beautiful people here.

LAURA: We really do, that sounds really good.

MATT: "Coming right up." And she boops you on the
nose, turns around, and walks right back towards

the kitchen area.

LAURA: Did she just boop you on the nose?

TRAVIS: She booped me on the fucking nose.

LIAM: Man, though, I want to be at Ren Faire right
now.

LAURA: She booped-- I know!!

TRAVIS: Just put one Grog, zero for Tary, because
that's happening later.

SAM: You and her?

TRAVIS: I'm just saying.

LAURA: He got booped.

TRAVIS: You've got to start claiming them now,
because once Grog starts putting the vibe out,

they just come running.

ASHLEY: I have an idea.

SAM: All right.

TALIESIN: Oh no.

ASHLEY: What if we have a contest?

TALIESIN: Oh no!

MARISHA: Oh no.

SAM: Great!

ASHLEY: Whoever takes her home--

TALIESIN: Oh no!

LAURA: Oh my.

MARISHA: Oh no!

ASHLEY: -- or just-- I don't like having a woman
be a part of a contest. That sounds terrible.

SAM: No, no, no, let's follow this thread.

ASHLEY: I just mean-- I'm not trying to--

LIAM: Tell us more, holy hooligan, tell us more.

LAURA: I'm not trying to--

TRAVIS: Moral compass.

ASHLEY: Moral compass! I'm not--

TALIESIN: She's an imaginary woman on graph paper.
Roll for it.

SAM: How about, spend the evening with? Spend the
evening with.

LAURA: No, it's still the same thing!

ASHLEY: It's still the same thing.

SAM: Well, no, no, no, it could be talking, it
could be--

ASHLEY: Maybe I've become terrible.

TRAVIS: What about win the affections of?

ASHLEY: Win the affections of.

TALIESIN: Get a kiss from.

SAM: Of that young lady?

LIAM: Who she likes better.

MARISHA: Maybe we need all these stipulations.
Whoever chugs a pint the quickest.

ASHLEY: Yeah.

SAM: All right, I like this. No, no, no, I like
this.

ASHLEY: Okay.

LIAM: Who she likes better, and Pickle's the
judge, that's easy to do.

SAM: All right.

TALIESIN: And then if she rejects both of them, we
all win.

SAM: But let's make this interesting.

MARISHA: Man, that seems hyper subjective, based
on someone's internal monologue that we can

definitely not hear.

TRAVIS: Hold on, I've piqued Tary's interest over
there.

SAM: Yes, I like this, I like this. If she prefers
me--

TRAVIS: Okay.

SAM: -- if she prefers me, I'll have that magical
cup of yours.

TRAVIS: My magic what?

SAM: Your magical cup that makes liquids.

LIAM: Tary-Town, be careful.

TRAVIS: Oh, the jug.

SAM: Yeah.

TALIESIN: Oh dear.

TRAVIS: Oh. Whoa. Whoa, shit got real.

SAM: And if she prefers you over me--

LAURA: Then you pay your debt to us.

SAM: -- you can have my rod.

TRAVIS: How about--

ASHLEY: Can I be in this contest?

LAURA: Yeah!

TALIESIN: Yes.

TRAVIS: How about, the jug for that fancy fishing
lure of a helmet you've got.

SAM: Why would you want to hide your beautiful
head?

TRAVIS: I don't, it's just shiny.

SAM: This is--

LAURA: He likes buckets.

SAM: My rod can become anything, you understand.

TRAVIS: So can mine, baby.

(laughter)

LIAM: You broke yourself!

TRAVIS: Dragon killer, debt eraser, takes all
shapes and forms.

SAM: The helmet is worth more than you'll ever see
in your life. I don't think that's a fair wager

against your cup.

TRAVIS: The jug for the rod.

SAM: The jug for the rod.

TRAVIS: Yeah.

SAM: Jugs and rods.

TRAVIS: Yup.

MATT: There's the episode title, right there.

(laughter)

SAM: All right, big boy.

TRAVIS: Yep.

SAM: You swing first.

TRAVIS: All right. I'm waiting on my turkey legs.
Just watch. Watch and learn.

MATT: In the meantime, you guys come up to the
bartender. A few drinks are brought by. The woman

comes up again and lays out tankards and glass,
whatever's available. It's not a very fine

establishment, it's whatever's functional. So some
of them are more clay-based mugs, some are metal--

What's up?

LIAM: Oh, I said it's perfect for us.

MATT: Yeah, it works out great for you guys. It's
a motley of various containers. All the drinks are

scattered across the table. "All right, your
turkey legs should be ready in the next-- Oh,

"whenever they're ready, I guess."

TRAVIS: Oh, you are too kind. And a beauty, to
boot. By the way, do you happen to have-- We've

just come back from a very intense battle-- do you
happen to have a needle and thread?

MATT: "Why, whatever for?"

TRAVIS: My darling, it's because I'm so ripped.

MATT: She can't stop the smile, a grin curls on
her face, she goes, (laughs).

LAURA: I feel like us at the table should actually
get to rate the come ons. The females should get

to rate these.

MATT: "I'll see what I can do."

TRAVIS: All right.

LIAM: Hey!

ASHLEY: I think it's a great idea.

TRAVIS: Beware, this is a no-win zone. Don't get
too close.

TALIESIN: I want in on this as well now.

MARISHA: Wait, you're jumping in on this?

TALIESIN: Oh, I'm not getting on this, I just want
in on the rating.

MARISHA: Oh, yeah, on the rating.

MATT: She heads off. She turns around and heads
back to the kitchen.

MARISHA: 50 gold says she hates all of them.

TALIESIN: I technically can't bet because I do
actually know everyone enough to--

MARISHA: Oh, here, right.

TALIESIN: I have a little more inside knowledge
than one should.

MARISHA: Is she going to hate all of them?

TALIESIN: God, I hope so.

(laughter)

MATT: About 15 minutes go by and you guys are
having a conversation, you're catching Pike up

with what you guys have been doing in the city of
Dis and all the chaos, and in the middle of

telling an incredible story about how you ran into
Tova, right as you get to that point, all of a

sudden plates (clanging) at the table and you can
see these beautiful turkey legs, fresh out of the

oven. They're still sizzling on the outside. She
says, "Careful now, they're hot. Do you need

"another drink? Anyone else?"

TRAVIS: Yep, yep, I need another drink, don't you?

SAM: (clears throat) Yes--

LIAM: You don't even need to ask that again, the
whole night.

SAM: Excuse-- Excuse-- Excuse me--

MATT: "Good to know."

SAM: Madam, if I may. Hi. My name is Taryon,
Taryon Darrington.

MATT: "Hi, Taryon."

SAM: It's lovely to meet you. I'm ashamed of
something, and I wanted to tell you about it. My

friend over there, the big one, pointed you out to
me and said: look at that beautiful girl across

the room. And I'm ashamed that he had that moment
of seeing you before I did. For knowing that he

got to experience that beauty for a moment longer
than I. Why, it's almost enough to make me cry.

I've read many books, but your hair could fill a
novel with its beauty. Your eyes are sonnets, your

nose and mouth epic poems. And almost-- almost any
feature of you could be enough to live a life on.

But I'm afraid it's your neck that got me. The
subtle curve, the way it meets your chest just so.

It's like a wave crashing on a beach, at the same
time ferocious and peaceful. I want to go to that

beach. I want to swim in that tide. I want to dip
my toes in that water and experience it for

myself.

LIAM: This is legit the twins over here.

MARISHA: Yeah.

MATT: There's definitely a long pause. "Wow."

(laughter)

MATT: And her hand reaches over and grabs your mug
and slides it away.

"So I think we're cutting him off."

(laughter)

TRAVIS: Man, why, I think that's a good idea. Would
you like to take a load off? Join us for a bit,

I'm sure your legs are super tired.

MATT: "I have about 30 minutes or so before the
rest of this place fills up with folks far less

"interesting than you, so unfortunately, I've got
to be ready for the rush. Your words are sweet and

"flowery, but I think I may be a little old for
you, sonny." Slides the drink back.

LAURA: Ooh. She got some experience!

MARISHA: Roll for restraining order.

(laughter)

TRAVIS: Man, I can just picture the spot in my bag
of holding that that rod is going to go into.

SAM: I don't think that's a clear win.

TRAVIS: Yep.

TALIESIN: That's not a clear-- Oh yes.

TRAVIS: You might as well just pack it up right
now.

TALIESIN: No, right now it's, right now it's even
keel, I feel.

LIAM: I mean we decided to--

SAM: The night is young.

LIAM: Who she likes better, but that's open.

LAURA: What? I mean if you're pursuing like, a
flowery lady--

TALIESIN: Better there's not at all.

LAURA: -- who's never met a real man in her life,
I'd be honest, flowery would work.

SAM: I've read-- That was a chapter from a book I
read. I just recited it back to her. I assumed it

would work, because it was a romantic novel,
that's all!

MARISHA: Grog was basically an asshole, and he
still did better than you.

TRAVIS: Basically?

SAM: Don't women like that sort of a thing?

LIAM: What, assholes?

SAM: No! No! Flowery language and stuff!

LAURA: Too much. It's too much, dear.

TRAVIS: I'll give you a layup, all right? You go
on and just repeat after me. You just say: I want

to be on you.

SAM: To that same one, or a different one?

TRAVIS: Yeah, yeah, you just got to be blunt,
right? You went the real flowery, like, exotic

way. Now just baseline it. Right.

LAURA: Yeah.

TRAVIS: You've got to get the dial tone delivery.
I want to be on you.

SAM: All right.

MATT: As you guys are having this conversation she
comes up again and begins filling drinks.

SAM: Oh, there was one more thing I want to say to
you.

MATT: She immediately sets the glass down and
goes--

SAM: I am sorry, I--

LAURA: Just don't, just--

SAM: I was taken before--

LAURA: Just right out.

SAM: I want to be on you!

TALIESIN: No--

SAM: I want to be on you so bad.

TALIESIN: No.

MATT: Make a persuasion check.

LAURA: This is going to work!

MARISHA: That's better than his first attempt!

LAURA: So much better!

MARISHA: So much better! (laughs)

SAM: 26.

(laughter)

MATT: Okay, so she laughs. She goes, (laughs)
"Honey, I give you points for boldness."

SAM: Points?

MATT: "Just points."

LAURA: Oh, shit.

MATT: She grabs the bottle, finishes pouring the
drinks and just turns around and leaves.

SAM: You're some kind of a genius! How did you do
that?

TALIESIN: I feel the wrong lesson was learned
here.

SAM: Wow!

TALIESIN: Reel us all back a bit.

TRAVIS: Forgot the rod? Oh! I forgot we're trying
to get you laid. It's a competition. Right, sorry.

Sorry.

LAURA: You're going to lose your jug.

SAM: Wow, that was amazing! She just went for the
bad boy thing.

TALIESIN: (high-pitched) Well--

SAM: Hah. Women are fascinating.

TALIESIN: Oh no!

ASHLEY: Oh no.

LAURA: That's fucked up.

MARISHA: Yeah!

TRAVIS: Hold on.

ASHLEY: That's not a good lesson to learn.

MARISHA: No, it's not.

TRAVIS: I'm going to try and seal this up right
now. I get up and leave the table and I go over to

the barmaid.

SAM: Oh boy.

LAURA: Oh god.

MATT: She is in the process of filling two plates
she's bringing over. Her hair is kind of frazzled

at this point. More people are coming in now as
the hour is starting to hit where people are soon

to fill the tavern floor for full.

TRAVIS: Wow. Do you want a hand with that?

MATT: "That'd be great. Thank you, I appreciate
it."

TRAVIS: Yeah, give them to me.

MATT: She hands you a few. Gives you two plates,
picks up two of her own. "This way." And she leads

you over to one of the far end tables in the other
room and she sets the plates down. "Here you go,

"honey. Here you go, honey." Takes the plates from
you. "There you go."

TRAVIS: You look so busy.

MATT: "I am."

TRAVIS: Could you do me a favor?

MATT: "Mm-hm."

TRAVIS: If I give you like a lot of money, will
you tell the guy over there that we had a sweet

shag?

MARISHA: Jesus.

MATT: If you could hear the pop in her head of
trying to contemplate what you just asked, it

was audible over the music of the tavern.

TRAVIS: You look really busy, and I don't want to
offend--

MATT: Make a persuasion check with disadvantage.

(laughter)

LAURA: Disadvantage.

TRAVIS: That's a two.

LAURA: Oh.

LIAM: TPK. TPK.

TALIESIN: Nope.

TRAVIS. Three.

(laughter)

TRAVIS: Casanova.

MATT: How did you get a three from a two you
rolled?

TRAVIS: Two plus one.

MATT: Oh you put, oh, okay, there we go.

(laughter)

MATT: It's like two for-- Yeah. Nice. Okay.

TALIESIN: Maybe the only thing he knows.

MATT: She goes, "How much money is it?"

TRAVIS: Shit, numbers.

MATT: "No." And she walks away.

TRAVIS: Did she say no? She said no?

MARISHA: She definitely--

TRAVIS: All right, I walk back to the group. It's
me and her later tonight.

MARISHA: Wow.

TRAVIS: Yeah.

MATT: Make a deception check.

(laughter)

MARISHA: Can I roll against that?

TRAVIS: 20.

MATT: Anyone who wants to make an insight check,
go for it.

LIAM: 28.

MARISHA: Natural 20.

LAURA: Yeah, definitely higher than 20.

SAM: I rolled low.

TRAVIS: I can't roll any higher than that.

MATT: All of you pull back and groan, except for
Taryon, who looks broken and crushed,

momentarily.

MARISHA: Tary, Grog is teaching you the opposite
of what to do.

SAM: What do you mean? Girls don't like the bad
boy?

TALIESIN: If you want to discover what girls
actually like, ask girls.

LAURA: Maybe talk to them.

TALIESIN: We've got three--

LAURA: Don't talk at them. Talk to them.

MARISHA: Maybe individually.

TALIESIN: Wells of knowledge.

SAM: Keyleth.

MARISHA: Oh no. Yeah?

SAM: Your hair is like angels coming down from the
sky--

TALIESIN: Nope, already lost it. Nope.

LAURA: Don't talk at them.

TALIESIN: Don't talk to the hair.

MARISHA: Why don't you, for starters, ask them a
question about themselves?

SAM: All right.

MARISHA: Instead of talking about yourself.

LIAM: You don't necessarily want to tell them
things. You want to talk to them

and learn about them.

SAM: How much money do you have?

ASHLEY: Oops.

LAURA: (laughs) No, that's a question for me,
darling.

MARISHA: Maybe less a monetary stat question.
Maybe find a question about her personality or

about her past or something that interests her.

SAM: All right.

MARISHA: Yeah. Try again.

SAM: All right. Hi, I'm Taryon Darrington.

MARISHA: Hi, Tary. Pleasure to meet you.

SAM: Nice to meet you. So, what do you like to do
at night? Do you have a servant who brushes your

hair, or do you just brush your own? No. Have you
killed-- no.

TALIESIN: At some pubs, that could have gone
well.

MARISHA: You're getting close. Just try, for once,
to think about someone other than yourself.

MATT: At which point, she goes back to the table to
bring you your third round. As she does, she goes

and returns all the mugs to the table, finishing
with yours. She slides it forward to you and gives

you a wink.

SAM: A wink?

TRAVIS: Later tonight, player!

SAM: I'm sorry we got off on the wrong foot
earlier.

MATT: (laughs) "It's okay."

SAM: I was taken by your obvious beauty, but
there's so much more to you than that, I'm sure.

MARISHA: (whispers) Come on.

SAM: If I could--

MARISHA: One thing about herself!

SAM: Tell me about yourself. How do you feel
about-- What do you do during the day when the

pub's not open?

MATT: She's taken aback for a moment. Looks at
everyone else at the table with a

"who are you people?" look.

TALIESIN: Yeah, Matt. What does she do during the
day when the pub's not open?

(laughter)

SAM: I'm a writer and a reader. What are your
hobbies?

MATT: "My hobbies involve raising two children
after Darren left about ten years back, and

"working hard to make some money and hopefully one
day get out of this shithole tavern and maybe

"start a business doing some sort of, I don't know,
textile work. Which, by the way, I brought your

"thread and needle." And she throws down what looks
like a half-done, shoddy knitting job.

SAM: Those children are lucky to have a mother as
hard-working as you.

MATT: "They're lucky to have a mother in this day
and age."

LAURA: That's so true.

MATT: She grabs one of your drinks.

SAM: Well, I'm glad to hear that you have a family
because it would be a shame for someone like you

to be alone.

MATT: "Honey, are you having a hard time asking
questions? I get the sense that you're new to this

"whole thing."

SAM: Yeah. Yes, I am. I don't know what I'm doing,
and I'm floundering a bit.

MATT: "It was not hard to read from you. Let me
tell you, the first thing that helps a lot? Ask

"what their name is."

SAM: What's your name?

MATT: "Shauna. Shauna Rual. What's your name?"

SAM AND MATT: Taryon Darringon.

MATT: "First thing you told me. Didn't even ask
first."

LIAM: What is that mother's name?

(laughter)

SAM: Yes!

TALIESIN: Bringing it all back.

MATT: "There you go. Now it's nice to meet you."

SAM: It's lovely to meet you. I could end the
evening right now having learned a lot from you

already.

MATT: "Great. I'll come back with the next round."
She leaves the table.

SAM: Shauna!

MARISHA: She's awesome.

SAM: She is awesome. I like her a lot.

LAURA: I think the lesson went well tonight.

TALIESIN: I'm feeling very positive about the
whole deal.

SAM: I feel inv-- I'm speechless.

MARISHA: The alcohol has worked.

SAM: Well, a draw, then?

TALIESIN: I feel that this is a reasonable draw.

TRAVIS: Why? I'm hooking up.

SAM: All right. We'll continue, then, until this
is done.

TRAVIS: Fine, jeez. Draw. Just because.

SAM: I defeated a goliath.

(laughter)

LAURA: How many more things on that list, Tary?

MATT: As you simmer, Grog, you pull up your tankard
and take a sip, and it is the most watered-down

ale you've ever had in your life.

TRAVIS: I don't show anything and drink it all.

(laughter)

LIAM: I rest my head on Keyleth's shoulder and
say, I almost wish we were back in the City of Dis

right now.

LAURA: Woof.

LIAM: Woof.

MARISHA: Why?

LAURA: What for?

TALIESIN: We've had enough of that.

ASHLEY: How come? Did you like it there?

LIAM: No, it was terrible. Everything looked the
same. It was dark, it was gray, it was full of

fucking nightmares.

LAURA: There were really terrible people there.
People were being tortured. We saw it happen. Oh!

We saw a torture chamber. You would have loved it!
I thought of you.

ASHLEY: Did you get anything out of it?

LAURA: No, I almost did, and I felt really weird
about it.

LIAM: I take it back, we did meet one really cool
person.

TALIESIN: We met a bear.

LAURA: Yeah.

ASHLEY: You met a bear?

LAURA: A werebear.

LIAM: Werebear.

TALIESIN: A werebear there.

ASHLEY: Did they make friends with Trinket?

LAURA: Trinket was-- I think he had a bit of a
crush. Trinket, did you have a crush on Tova?

MATT: You look back and Trinket is sitting by the
doorway, which has been great, because every time

a patron walks in, they go, "Hey. Huh?" And slowly
has to step a wide circle around the bear that's just

sitting right by the entrance.

TRAVIS: An armored bear.

MARISHA: What is it that you miss about the City
of Dis?

LIAM: Oh, I was being facetious.

MARISHA AND LAURA: Oh.

LIAM: I just meant that performance was a little
tense, Tary. But a better towards the end.

TALIESIN: You're improving.

LAURA: Yeah, look at you, asking questions.

TALIESIN: Learning names.

LIAM: Surviving hell, talking to women.

SAM: Talking-- oh, yes. I haven't picked up a
woman in a bar before.

MARISHA: Was that on your list?

SAM: No.

MARISHA: Oh.

TRAVIS: Well, you have--

ASHLEY: You've picked up a woman before, but just
not in a bar?

SAM: No.

MATT: You guys have noticed at this point, by the
way, that Shauna has set down food at a nearby

table and is listening in to this conversation as
you progress.

SAM: I've never hit on a woman like that before.
Or any, for that matter. As I told you, I led a

sheltered life, and I've really only had one
romantic experience.

LAURA: Was it with Doty?

SAM: Oh god. Doty was a machine made of metal.

TALIESIN: We're not judging.

LAURA: No, it's not judging.

MARISHA: It would have been my first question,
too. I'm not going to lie.

SAM: Really?

MARISHA: Sorry.

LAURA: It was a terrible joke.

LIAM: We've never met anybody like Doty before.

TALIESIN: I was a bit awkward with girls before I
started out.

SAM: Really?

TALIESIN: Oh yes.

SAM: You? Debonair?

TALIESIN: I had a lot of sisters.

SAM: Royal?

TALIESIN: Well, we end up sheltered, don't we?

LAURA: He's got really good technique. He always
brings a bottle of liquor with him.

TALIESIN: I learn very quickly. She's an excellent
teacher. Never mind. But no, adventuring and going

out into the world, you learn a lot. You meet
people. You get out. It's good for you. Look at

all these people.

MARISHA: I was very sheltered-- (gasps) were all
three of us sheltered on this side?

TALIESIN: We are sheltered children on this side.

MARISHA: Yay, sheltered kids! Hey. Awkward.

MATT: As you guys are having this conversation,
Taryon, you feel a hand hit your shoulder and turn

you back a little bit. It's Shauna. She leans
forward and says, "Listen, honey. If you're

"looking to go ahead and find yourself an evening,
wait here about 30 minutes. I'll introduce you to

"someone." And she releases your shoulder and goes
back to work.

TALIESIN: This is also why you always make friends
with women. They have friends. There's just

networks of them. It's brilliant.

LIAM: That is some of the best advice I've ever
heard leave your mouth.

TALIESIN: Thank you!

TRAVIS: This is so great. The one romance you had
before, did it go well?

SAM: No, it did not.

TRAVIS: It didn't?

TALIESIN: Oh my god. No. Wait. No!

ASHLEY: Wait, what did you say? What did I miss?

TALIESIN: Did your father find out about--

SAM: My father did find out.

TALIESIN: Oh my god.

ASHLEY: What?

MARISHA: What happened to her?

TALIESIN: More liquor.

LAURA: Wait, what?

TALIESIN: No, we're sitting down for parental
issues.

MARISHA: We all scooch up chairs. What happened?

LIAM: This is part of the initiation process,
Tary. We all went through this. Tell us

everything.

SAM: You guys are friends, right?

LIAM AND TALIESIN: Yes.

TRAVIS: No. Yes.

SAM: My father, as I told you, has threatened to
give the entire legacy of his estate to my sister

because he doesn't feel that I am ready to take
the reins. I'm not strong enough, and I'm not

vicious enough. But it's more than that. He caught
me with a teacher, a tutor, once.

ASHLEY: Whoa.

SAM: He gave me all the best tutors.

MARISHA: Apparently.

(laughter)

SAM: And I learned a lot, but there was one who
taught me some extra things.

LIAM: What was her name?

SAM: His name. It's embarrassing.

TALIESIN: Oh no, I think I know. Please, go on.

SAM: Lawrence.

TALIESIN: (sighs) Good name.

SAM: Larry. Larry and Tary.

LIAM: That's adorable.

TALIESIN: That's so adorable! I'm so sorry.

SAM: He and I hit it off. We would talk about
literature and philosophy and all sorts of things

until the wee hours, and my father walked in on us
once, and I don't know what happened to him, but

I'm afraid he's dead.

MARISHA: Oh, Tary.

LIAM AND LAURA: What?

SAM: Or banished, or something bad. I don't know.
I never saw him again.

MARISHA: That's awful.

LAURA: How much older was he than you?

SAM: Ten years older than me.

ASHLEY and MARISHA: How old were you?

SAM: This was a few years ago, so maybe 20.

ALL: Oh, all right.

LIAM: And you confronted your father? Did you try
to find out what happened to Lawrence?

SAM: I wasn't a little boy! No.

MARISHA: You didn't lead with that.

SAM: No.

MARISHA: Tary, why didn't you tell us that? Maybe
we've been taking the wrong approach this whole

time.

SAM: Well, I'm a dashing adventurer, and I'm
supposed to attract all of the lasses of the

kingdom, right?

ALL: Well.

SAM: They throw themselves at me because of my
derring-do and bravery and my hair.

MARISHA: Have you experienced that once?

SAM: No, but I feel that-- in all the books I've
read, they never tell of the adventurers who go to

bed with older men.

TALIESIN: Do you know why? Because those
adventurers are busy actually having a good time.

LIAM: Has anything you've gone through with us
been like the books you've read?

SAM: No. It's much grosser in real life. And more
terrifying, and so badly planned.

(laughter)

SAM: Every book you read is tactical geniuses and
strategy for days, but we just go in with nothing.

Nothing at all. No backup plan, no exit strategy.

MARISHA: And why do you think that would be any
different than our dating strategy?

LAURA: Terrible.

LIAM: Everything you've read about romance, well,
that's horseshit.

LAURA: We should find Lawrence! We should see if
we can find him!

SAM: He's probably dead.

LAURA: We should scry on him!

MARISHA: Do you have a reminder of him? Any
items?

SAM: No.

LAURA: Nothing? Can you describe him? Would it
work?

SAM: He was tall. He was fair-skinned. He was
strong.

LIAM: Since we're friends now, and you're learning
about us, what does your father do that you

suspect he killed this poor man?

SAM: Real estate.

LAURA: Real estate.

LIAM: He's a land baron?

TALIESIN: Never trust a man who sells property.

SAM: Real estate. He buys and sells properties.
Mostly buys and holds. Leases them back to the

kingdom who sold it to him for a huge markup, and
charges taxes on people that use the properties,

exorbitant taxes. And he shakes down people who
use his properties. It's all very shady and murky,

but it all involves real estate.

LAURA: You don't want to be that.

LIAM: Do you like your father?

SAM: He's a great man. He's made a lot of money,
and he's respected and feared by many.

TALIESIN: We just killed a dragon that made a lot
of money.

LIAM: Do you like your father?

SAM: I hate him, more than anything.

MARISHA: Then why do you feel like you need to
impress him?

SAM: Because-- I don't know. He's my dad.

LAURA: I got you, boo.

MARISHA: Daddy issues.

TALIESIN: I kind of want to rough him up.

SAM: Rough me up?

TALIESIN: No, not you. You're fine.

LIAM: We've already put you through the ringer,
darling. You're fine.

LAURA: Well, shit. Tary, you don't have to go back
to him if you don't want to.

You can stay with us.

TALIESIN: You can do whatever you like.

SAM: And be poor.

TALIESIN: Or slightly wealthy. There's worse
things than poverty.

MARISHA: There's more to respect and honor than
just money. A lot more. In fact, generally money

tends to make you--

LIAM: Miserable.

MARISHA: Shittier.

LAURA: I don't fully agree with that.

TALIESIN: I don't fully agree with that, either.
Although I spent quite a bit of time before I met

this group of people dirt poor. Beggar poor. It
wasn't the best time of my life, but-- I don't

remember my point. It was actually pretty awful.

LIAM: I think if we're going to bring up how you
shat on money when we first met you and talked

about how it was pointless and didn't bring you
happiness.

TALIESIN: It's true. I did say it was pointless.

LAURA: You did give it away.

TALIESIN: And because it comes with an enormous
amount of responsibility and complications. And

while it's nice to have, because I'm using it to
do some good in the world now, and because without

it, she becomes slightly more questionably evil
than she currently is, bless.

LIAM: She's so evil.

TALIESIN: It's not the secret to happiness. It
doesn't actually help if you're not already happy.

It can augment existing happiness, it just doesn't
create it from scratch.

MARISHA: I feel like we're suddenly talking about
your problems.

TALIESIN: Or baking bread. I'm not sure.

MARISHA: Still your problems, yeah.

TALIESIN: I'm going to drink more.

TRAVIS: Tary, did you want to get laid tonight?

SAM: No, thank you.

TRAVIS: No?

LAURA: I think Grog's offering.

LIAM: Yeah, I do, too.

TRAVIS: I mean, I'll pay for it.

SAM: Like a house of ill repute?

TRAVIS: Yeah. Have you ever been to the lady
favors?

TALIESIN: It actually has a very good reputation,
to be fair.

LAURA: Oh.

SAM: A brothel?

TRAVIS: Yeah.

SAM: Me?

TRAVIS: Yep.

SAM: Taryon Darrington in a house of flesh?

TRAVIS: Yeah, you go in, throw some spaghetti on
the wall, see what sticks, and have a great time.

TALIESIN: There's not actual spaghetti.

TRAVIS: There might be.

(laughter)

TRAVIS: What do you think?

LIAM: Mayonnaise, at the very least.

(groaning, laughter)

TALIESIN: Oh, that's funny twice, too.

(laughter)

LAURA AND ASHLEY: Yay.

TRAVIS: What do you think, huh? I know if we had
said, "you're going to fight a dragon and a

"kraken," you'd be like, "no, not me!" But this is
a chance for you to go to the big time.

TALIESIN: Maybe take some pressure off and
practice talking normally to people who are going

to be very gentle with you about the whole
process.

SAM: Talking?

ASHLEY: You don't even have to do anything. You
can just have an hour of their time.

SAM: Pike, are you encouraging me to go to a
brothel right now?

ASHLEY: Listen, I do think that going to, as you
put it, a house of flesh, is a part of being an

adventurer. It's a rite of passage.

LAURA: Do you go to brothels, Pike?

ASHLEY: Well, where do you think I go when you
guys leave all the time?

(laughter)

TRAVIS: Pike is crushing it!

TALIESIN: I missed you so much.

MARISHA: Then why did we get mimosas and go
shopping when we had our girls' day?

ASHLEY: Say again?

MARISHA: Why did we get mimosas and just go
shopping on our girls' day? I feel like we got

robbed.

ASHLEY: Well, those are so fun, too.

TRAVIS: Don't go shopping next time. I never do.

MATT: Vax and Vex, as you guys are having this
conversation, you notice that Shauna's in the

progress of conversing with a figure at the bar
who sat down not too long ago. You can only see

from the back, but you see a set of armor that is
Pale Guard-specific. They have a brief

conversation, and the figure turns around and
begins to approach the table after glancing over

the shoulder a few times towards where you guys
are sitting. As you guys are talking, from behind

Taryon, a large figure looms up from behind and
smiles, as you guys recognize, with the brunette

hair pulled back into a tight bun behind, the
healing scar on the face, you see Tricia, one of

the Pale Guard.

TRAVIS: Yeah! She beat me at arm wrestling.

LAURA: Trish the Dish!

MARISHA: Totally Trish the Dish.

MATT: As she walks up and leans and touches the
edge of your shoulder, pats you, and goes, "Hey,

"so I've had a long day. I've been told you've had
a long day."

SAM: Yes, I have. I lost--

MATT: "Can I buy you a drink?"

MARISHA: Just say yes.

SAM: Yes, please.

MATT: "What'll you have?"

SAM: Your finest, oldest wine, I guess?

MATT: "Gotcha. Scotch. All right." She backs away,
walks back up to the bar.

TALIESIN: That was hot. Damn.

LAURA: You see how she did that?

MARISHA: Yeah, learn from Trish.

SAM: I'm learning.

TALIESIN: I feel like I just learned something.

LIAM: Don't quote fairytales anymore.

LAURA: I mean, unless you want you. If that's the
way you think you're going to pick up a girl or a

guy, maybe that's the way and you'll just find
somebody who likes that. You might get a lot of

rejection until that point, but eventually you'll
find the person that it registers with.

MATT: Two glasses slam down on the table in
front--

TALIESIN: Or you'll just have a great time.

MATT: Pours a really thick amber-like liquid into
each of these. Slams the drink down. Pulls her bun

out, her hair curled up and crimped from being put
up falls around the shoulder.

SAM: (coughs)

TRAVIS: Do not puke. Do not puke.

SAM: Nope, nope.

LAURA: You're doing great.

SAM: What's your name?

MATT: "Shauna, we're taking the bottle. They call
me Trish. What's your name?"

SAM: TD.

(laughter)

MATT: "Well, TD, let's go and have a walk in the
moonlight." She takes you by the arm, lifts you

out of your chair onto your feet.

SAM: Oh, she lifted me up.

MATT: Lifted out of your chair, onto your feet.
And goes, "Good to see you guys.

"Still working out?"

TRAVIS: Yeah. But I probably couldn't take you.

MATT: "I knew you couldn't. See you next Winter's
Crest, right? All right. Have a good night. You're

"coming with me." She smacks you on the ass as she
pushes you out of the room.

SAM: Tell my story!

(laughter)

MATT: You guys watch as Trish, who's a good seven
or eight inches taller than Taryon, is guiding him

with one hand in the center of his back just
pushing him out of the tavern. You see them both

disappear into the now dark--

TRAVIS: Dude, I had a thing for Trish once upon a
time.

LAURA: I know you did. Are you okay?

TRAVIS: Yeah.

LAURA: Do you still?

TRAVIS: Well, I mean--

LAURA: Was it a little painful?

ASHLEY: You could go rescue him.

LAURA: You could. He's not going to be into it.

TRAVIS: No, I am not CB-ing that action, all
right?

SAM: CB-ing?

TRAVIS: Yeah, canary blocking.

LAURA: Could we get an insight if Taryon seemed
excited or just terribly scared?

MATT: Sure.

TALIESIN: 21.

LAURA: That's better than what I rolled.

MATT: Taryon?

SAM: Very scared.

LAURA: Not happy? Not happy at all or like cool?

SAM: Interested but scared.

TALIESIN: I think he needs this. I think it'll be
all right.

TRAVIS: I agree with Percy.

LIAM: I hope he likes it.

LAURA: This is so uncomfortable to talk about.

MARISHA: I don't want to think about that.

TALIESIN: Do you have your orb?

MARISHA: Uhh. Why you asking, Percy?

TALIESIN: I'm just saying.

MARISHA: Why you asking, Percy?

TALIESIN: I'm just going to double-check. It'll be
fine. Just going to double-check, real quick. They

haven't started anything yet. I'm just going to
take a peek.

MARISHA: I'm going to give that a big fat no.

TALIESIN: What if I owe you a favor?

MARISHA: The Voice of the Tempest is overruling
you on this one.

TALIESIN: I'm appealing beyond the Voice of the
Tempest, to the heart of the storm. I'm asking the

heart of the storm, pleading to the heart of the
storm far beyond the Voice of the Tempest. There's

nothing to be heard here.

MARISHA: La-la-la, the Voice is very loud right
now. Sorry, the Voice cannot hear you. The Voice

is going to have to take a message.

LAURA: You could always try following them.

TRAVIS: Yeah, why don't you go walk down the
hallway?

TALIESIN: I didn't want to disturb them.

TRAVIS: It's outside the room.

TALIESIN: If they know that we're watching it
would disturb them.

LAURA: I'm going to go make sure everything's
okay.

MATT: What?

LAURA: I'm going to go listen in and make sure
everything's okay.

MATT: They stepped out of the tavern. They went
out into the street.

MARISHA: You were the one who told me that I could
not scry on Scanlan to respect his privacy so--

TRAVIS: Yeah, but I give a shit about Scanlan.

LIAM: I mean, he's--

SAM: Nope.

LIAM: Grog.

TRAVIS: He's not here.

SAM: He's my best friend.

LIAM: He's dopey but he means well. He's all
right.

TRAVIS: He's fine.

LIAM: Okay. We don't want him to die outright.

LAURA: No, of course not.

MARISHA: I don't want to watch a Tary porn.

TALIESIN: You don't have to watch. I just want to
watch. It's just me.

MARISHA: You're very strongly peer pressuring me
right now Percy and I don't know

how I feel about this.

TALIESIN: It's because we're peers. I'm a bit
drunk.

MARISHA: Can you even scry? I don't know if you
have the--

TALIESIN: I don't know. I've never tried.

MARISHA: Do you want to try?

TALIESIN: Yes.

MARISHA: All right, Percy. Try to scry. I give him
the Scrying Eye.

TALIESIN: Does it require attunement?

MATT: The Scrying Eye does not require attunement,
no. It gives the ability to use the Scry spell

once per day.

MARISHA: See what you can do.

TALIESIN: I'm going to try and use it.

MATT: Just for the sake of this, I'm going to have
you roll a d20 and add your intelligence

modifier.

MARISHA: If he crits, I'm going to be so pissed.

TALIESIN: Can I use a Resolve for this?

MATT: Resolve is for a saving throw, right?

TALIESIN: No, that doesn't work, does it? That's
seven.

MATT: Seven? You take a moment and glance into it.
Instead of thinking of the magical orientation of

the ritual, your brain immediately goes to the
mechanical structure of what this would do. How

would you recreate the scrying spell in a
mechanical fashion where it wouldn't require

magic. You're eventually at the point where, "I
don't understand this."

TALIESIN: I don't understand how this works. Never
mind.

MARISHA: Really? Are you sure? You have to think
real hard about butt-naked Tary. Real hard.

TALIESIN: One more time. Just bring the difficulty
up. I don't care.

MATT: Yeah, the DC is definitely higher. Go ahead
and roll again.

MARISHA: Tan lines where his armor used to be.

LIAM: Luscious hair.

TALIESIN: There we go. 24.

And I'm thinking about Scanlan.

LAURA: (gasps) Oh, you sneaky fuck!

MATT: Okay.

TALIESIN: Do you want to say this out loud?

MATT: You know what, guys? If I could have you
all, except for Taliesin, go ahead and step off

the stage.

ASHLEY: Do they get to know?

MATT: Yeah. A reverse whisper.

TRAVIS: It's a group whisper!

MATT: The audience gets to see this.

SAM: I get to stay.

LAURA: No!

MATT: Yes, you do, actually. He does get to stay.

SAM: I get to stay.

MATT: All right, guys. Close the door.

TRAVIS: We're closing it!

SAM: They're putting headphones on.

TALIESIN: This is the second time in a week I've
gotten to do this to people.

SAM: Oh, wow! The reverse whisper!

MATT: As you concentrate, Percival, your vision
clarifies, and you see the moonlight over the tops

of the trees of the Parchwood Forest around
Whitestone. The clouds break, your vision

transitions, and all of a sudden, you're thrust
forward at a magnificent speed, beyond the forest,

and now you're not too far, but south of the
Parchwood. The trees disperse, and you're now

looking at a cluster of buildings. Maybe a few
hundred small structures, ranging from homesteads

to hovels. You smash cut once more, and there you
see a campfire. You see a campfire set up, maybe

about 25 feet between two buildings in this open
fire pit area. It's a central bonfire-type social

gathering place. And there, you see a number of
wooden logs set up like stools or seats, and in

the moonlight and a few nearby torches, you see
about six or so simple farm folk that are all

sitting around this bonfire. Except it's not six.
It's four farm folk, and you see sitting amongst

them Kaylie and Scanlan. They're both together
playing music for these people who are all sitting

and staring into the fire at the end of their work
day. It's a very simple, very serene scene,

strangely. They're just sitting with simple folk
in a simple town. You recognize it now: this is

the Turst Fields. You've been through here once
before, when you were first leaving Whitestone and

heading south to find your quarry, all that time
ago. This is definitely a more rural area, and

they don't seem to be in any danger, and they
don't seem to be at any caper, but they're both at

the center of doing what they both do best, 
which is entertain.

TALIESIN: Do they look reasonable?

MATT: They look reasonable. You've seen them
perform before, and there is a performance face.

They're both wide smiles. Everyone else seems to be
enthralled by the music, or enthralled by the

flames and the music combination. A couple of
people saunter up and plop down on the ground,

sitting next to them to join in, and they're
drawing a small crowd at the end of the day.

TALIESIN: I take down as many details in my head
as I can.

MATT: Okay. Bring them back in. Guys, get back
here!

SAM: Or should we just take our break here?

MATT: What time is it? It is 8:30! We'll go ahead
and take our break, actually.

TALIESIN: Thanks, guys.

MATT: All right. We'll take our break real fast.
We have our giveaway. We have the bubinga complete

system and tabletop tray from Wyrmwood. This one
has a bunch of stuff. We have a dice box, dice

tray-- this is actually a pretty legit giveaway,
so go ahead and make sure you come to the Twitch

chat room and be active. They'll have a password
up there. Do we have a code yet for the chat

room?

CREW: Pike.

MATT: Pike. P-I-K-E. Pike is the code in the chat
room. Go ahead and enter that in the Twitch chat,

and we'll pick a winner as soon as we come back
from our break. See you guys here in just a

moment.

[break]

MATT: Hello, and welcome back. As you guys are
having your drinks at the bar, Percival finishes

focusing briefly on the Scrying Orb and
disengages.

TALIESIN: Ha! Oh, that's a bit much. That's a bit
much.

MARISHA: That's right.

ASHLEY: What did you see?

TALIESIN: Nothing that interesting. Ugh, that
doesn't feel good.

MARISHA: Nothing that interesting, or something
appallingly interesting?

TALIESIN: Believe me, I'd tell you if it was
appalling. It was not appalling, it was fine.

LIAM: Is Tary okay? What are you thinking, man?

TALIESIN: He's fine, he's having a good-- That
doesn't feel good. How do you do that? Ugh.

MARISHA: Can I do an insight check on him?

MATT: Why?

MARISHA: Just to see if he actually saw anything
or not.

MATT: Sure, go for it.

MARISHA: If he's telling us the truth. 26.

TALIESIN: All right, and that would be-- okay.

MARISHA: Sorry, 27.

TRAVIS: The question, was if you saw anything or
not?

TALIESIN: Yeah. Four.

MATT: So yeah, it seems like he definitely saw
something.

MARISHA: What? It worked, though!

TALIESIN: It did.

MARISHA: You actually got it to work for you! I'm
kind of impressed.

TALIESIN: I don't think I'm ever doing that again,
but yes. That doesn't feeling good.

LIAM: He crossed the threshold? Is that what you
saw?

TALIESIN: I didn't see that.

LIAM: What did you see?

TALIESIN: I'm going to be a gentleman and not
throw up from the speed at which one goes in that

direction.

LIAM: Well, Percival, you threw "gentleman" out
the window about 30 seconds ago.

TALIESIN: That's fair. He's doing very well.

LIAM: All right.

TALIESIN: Very well. I'm very proud.

TRAVIS: So question, do we crash here for the
night or do we make it back to the (hiccup)

castle?

TALIESIN: We should probably go to the castle.

LIAM: You've got to say hi to your sister.

TALIESIN: I do. We've sent word. They'll be awake,
I imagine. Is Gilmore still in town?

MATT: Last you heard-- you can ask around--
Gilmore is back in Emon currently trying to

scavenge the pieces of his shop.

TRAVIS: Why don't we do it old school and just
crash here for the night? That way, Tary can

take his time and in the morning we (hiccup) oh
god I got so much burps-- Then in the morning we

can head back out.

TALIESIN: Head back out, where?

TRAVIS: To the (hiccup) castle.

SAM: Those are real hiccups, aren't they?

TRAVIS: These fucking peanuts are amazing. Not
sure what I'm eating, but I think they're peanuts.

Might be nails.

TALIESIN: We have both, so that's, either way, it
could work.

LIAM: I can sleep anywhere, but why aren't we
going to sleep in the nice beds in the castle?

TALIESIN: We have lovely beds.

TRAVIS: But we've got to wait on Tary!

LAURA: Yeah, he's not going to know where we
went.

MARISHA: Tary's a big boy.

TRAVIS: Is he?

MARISHA: You're right, he's not.

LIAM: We'll leave a message here. He's a smart
boy.

ASHLEY: I feel like he's just so romantic, he'll
probably stay the night and have breakfast or

something.

TRAVIS: Yeah, look, you may go back to your fluffy
bed, but my man's in the deed and I'm sticking

around to slap hands afterwards.

LAURA: Is Shauna around at all?

MATT: Yeah, she's in the process of running
around.

LAURA: Can I run up and snag her for a second?

MATT: Sure. She sets down a couple of drinks. "I
feel like we did our good deed for the night."

LAURA: I feel like it happened. It definitely
happened. Question, though. How long does your

friend usually stay with her cohorts? Does it-- Is
it--

MATT: "I don't time it, if that's what your
question is. I don't know!"

LAURA: Does she spend the night with them, or is
it like an in and out-- Do you see her again,

around, quickly?

MATT: "A few times, it depends on--"

LAURA: It depends.

MATT: "I don't know."

LAURA: On the guy.

MATT: "She's a hard working girl, let her have her
fun."

LAURA: I agree with that sentiment. Thank you for
your generosity, and your connections.

TRAVIS: Silver tongued, huh.

LAURA: Also, I'm sorry for my friends, and for
me.

(laughter)

MATT: At that point, she smiles very widely and
you can see the mother poke through for a minute

from the barmaid. She nods and says, "Look, it's
all right. Trust me, I deal with far worse from

"most of these riffraff." She points to most of the
other tables. "It's fine."

LAURA: Thank you.

MATT: She gets back to work.

LAURA: I dunno, I think he might be with her a
long time. He might be learning a few things. It

could take all night.

MARISHA: I hope he's learning a lot of things.

LAURA: I mean, did it look like he was?

TALIESIN: I was not there very long.

MARISHA: Let's just go back to the castle. It's
just a few blocks away from the tavern. We can

always come back in the morning to send someone to
get him, it's fine. It's a small West--

Whitestone-- we're not in Westruun. We've
traveled. We've traveled a lot.

MATT: You're four mugs in, Keyleth.

MARISHA: God, is it just, you know, we travel so
much, you don't really know--

LAURA: Really, really far in for Keyleth,
actually.

LIAM: That is so many glasses that she's far in.

ASHLEY: Well, because I am not as tired as you
guys-- I have been working so hard, but I'm going

to stay.

TRAVIS: Yeah, me too.

ASHLEY: Gonna wait for Tary.

TRAVIS: (belches) Keep an eye on our
34,000 gold-onaire. Sorry, it smells like a fart.

LAURA: Gross.

SAM: Welcome back, Ashley.

(laughter)

ASHLEY: Hey, he's my best friend and I love all of
him.

LIAM: That's fair, you probably have some catching
up to do.

MATT: You guys are finding your respective places
to stay for the night?

LIAM: Back to the castle, yeah.

MATT: All right. The four of you head back to the
castle. The two of you stay in the tavern. Taryon

continues with his evening. The four of you make
it back. Is there anything in particular you want

to do? At this point in the evening, you've been
drinking quite a ways, so it's closer to midnight

at this point in time.

TALIESIN: I'm a little soberer than I'd like to
let on. Not sober, but-- I don't quite want to say

surprise for tomorrow, but I may have something
exciting to show you tomorrow. I'm going to need

you to be extra intimidating tonight, because
tomorrow I'm going to be very intimidating right

back at you.

LAURA: I like this plan.

TALIESIN: I figured you would. I'm going to have
to say hello to my sister.

LAURA: Yes. Do I need to come with you?

TALIESIN: No. Are we alone?

MATT: You guys could fall behind the two of them
if you want.

TALIESIN: I didn't look in on Tary.

LAURA: You didn't?

TALIESIN: No.

LAURA: Did you not see anything?

TALIESIN: (sighs)

LAURA: What did you do?

TALIESIN: I saw Scanlan.

LAURA: You seemed bothered after you looked. Is
everything all right?

TALIESIN: He's fine.

LAURA: What was he doing?

TALIESIN: I haven't done anything yet.

LAURA: What was he doing?

TALIESIN: Enjoying himself. God knows. He has
things that belong to me.

LAURA: Like what?

TALIESIN: He has the stone--

LAURA: I sort of gave that to him.

TALIESIN: Did we?

LAURA: I did.

TALIESIN: He has the earring.

LAURA: Yes.

TALIESIN: I kind of want them back.

LAURA: You don't think there's any chance he'll
ever come back, do you?

TALIESIN: I think that if he did come back, I
would be very worried about who he was. I'm

feeling betrayed, and I can't help but think of
all of our adventures of the last few weeks, he

would have been oddly useful for so many of them.
He would have been such a-- Hm.

LAURA: You know, it's funny, he left feeling like
we didn't appreciate his worth, and these last

few weeks have really made me understand how much
I did. I think he hit on a lot of really good

points when he left us. I don't forgive him for
them just yet, but I'm trying

not to hate him for it.

TALIESIN: I'm not. I've been that villain, and the
best of them point out all of your flaws while

they're busy exploiting their own. I am, I will
admit, very angry. I don't want to interfere with

his happiness, I don't want to interfere with his
life, certainly not his daughter, but I will admit

I am very angry. Perhaps the only thing that's
keeping me from doing anything about that anger is

your opinion of it. I don't mean to put this on
you, this is not on you, but--

LAURA: Not at all, dear.

TALIESIN: I'm thinking of collecting what's mine.

LAURA: I pull out Fenthras, and I show him again
what I've carved on the front of it. Sinaeth. Do

you remember when I told you about this?

TALIESIN: Yes.

LAURA: It's important. I struggle with it a lot,
you know. I tend to hold grudges.

TALIESIN: As do I.

LAURA: If we're trying, that's important. Just
think on it. Nothing rash, dear, all right?

TALIESIN: I'll think on it. I'll think on it.
Thank you.

LAURA: Yeah. I'll be in the room.

TALIESIN: I'll be right there. I'm going to confer
with my sister about formalizing a few things

tomorrow.

MATT: Okay.

MARISHA: Before Percy leaves, I say, (slurs) You
know, didn't think, going to be able to use the

Scrying Eye, for someone who hates magic so much,
might be something more to you! Boop! I saw that

from Whatsherface earlier! Okay, bye, go have
fun!

LIAM: I want to jump us back two minutes, and I'm
not as sober as Percival, and we're arm-in-arm

walking. Man, I'm so fucking happy right now, I'm
so fucking happy. We have nothing to do. We have

nothing to do!

MARISHA: (slurs) I just can't believe Percy
actually used the Scrying Eye. I so didn't

anticipate him actually getting it able to work. I
thought I was one of the only ones in the group

that can make it work, and now he can make it
work.

LIAM: Well he's a clever boy, that one. Listen to
me. I don't have any kind of timetable on it-- and

I take her cheeks and I go (burbling noise) I'm so
drunk right now. I can't wait to go home with you.

I can't wait. I dunno when we're going to do it.
Your home! Your home.

MARISHA: Man. What are-- I don't know what you're
referring to in this moment.

LIAM: I mean, Zephra.

MARISHA: This feels like a lot of meta
conversations.

LIAM: Zephra. I want to go to Zephra. I want to
get to know your father!

MARISHA: Yeah!

LIAM: He's nice! He's so much nicer than my father
ever was!

MARISHA: You're so domestic right now, it's so
cute!

LIAM: Tiddly diddly dee!

(laughter)

LIAM: You know, there's been no time to talk about
this. I mean, we get to--

MARISHA: Hey, do you think they're going to stop
allowing you to drink in the street as soon as we

get guards and law and order back in this town? I
kind of like you being able to drink in the street

in Whitestone. It's nice.

LIAM: Yeah. Wait, wait, wait.

MARISHA: What were you going to say?

LIAM: Focus in on me, because I have something
important to tell you, but I know that we're both

very intoxicated.

MARISHA: No, I'm listening.

LIAM: Okay. Listen.

MARISHA: I'm listening!

LIAM: Yes, but, Kiki, listen to me.

MARISHA: Mm-hm!

LIAM: The Raven Queen is not done with me or with
us.

MARISHA: Uh-huh.

LIAM: You know, when she picked me up again, when
you--

MARISHA: She picked you up again?

LIAM: When you brought me back, when Vex brought
me back, when Grog brought me back--

MARISHA: Okay, yeah. Uh-huh.

LIAM: She went (poof).

MARISHA: Yeah! I thought I was crazy, but
apparently your sister saw her face, because we

all saw her face!

LIAM: Yeah. Then she went away, but then she
didn't go away. She was still there. She's not

done. So fucking drunk.

MARISHA: Yeah, me too! I'm trying to concentrate
on what you're saying so hard!

LIAM: But I don't want to think about that. That's
later. That's coming, I guess. That's later.

MARISHA: Uh-huh.

LIAM: But I want to--

MARISHA: Hey, hey, hey, hey.

LIAM: What?

MARISHA: No feathery white mask face wearing deity
is going to take you from me or us, okay? Okay?

Because we'll just go god-hunting! And it'll be
great! Because apparently your sister said we have

to kill Orcus, so--

LIAM: Yeah, that's a pretty big matzoh ball, that
one.

MARISHA: Yeah. I'm still digesting that, so I
think the only way I can really interface with it

is just by making jest of it.

LIAM: I'm going to change the subject though one
more time and then we've got to go to bed soon

because I am fucked up.

MARISHA: I'm listening.

LIAM: I'm in the short term more confused and
worried about my sister.

MARISHA: Okay, yeah. Yeah.

LIAM: Because there's no question that I'm going
to follow you where you go right now, but I don't

know what she wants to do.

MARISHA: Oh.

LIAM: And I love her so much!

MARISHA: Oh!

(laughter)

LIAM: She's my best friend!

MARISHA: I know! I love her so much too!

LIAM: She's the coolest!

MARISHA: She is so cool! And she is so pretty!
She's so cool.

LIAM: So I don't know how that conversation's
going to go, but, you know, it's going to happen.

MARISHA: I'm so sorry!

MATT: As you guys both look ahead to talk about
and look at Vex, she's gone and Percy's gone, and

you realize at this point that you completely
missed the divergence of your party.

LIAM: Stubby! Let's go to bed.

MARISHA: Okay! They're okay, right?

LIAM: Those two? They've got it all figured out!

MARISHA: I know some-- it's been bad, you know?
Turned around a lot, and people have not been

there, and they're supposed to be there, and
they're not--

LIAM: Come here.

MATT: You guys make your way to your room in
Whitestone.

MARISHA: I'm so drunk!

LIAM: At the door, press foreheads together and I
go, I'm going to pretend like I'm not drunk.

MARISHA: Okay. I don't know if I can!

LIAM: Okay.

MARISHA: Okay.

LIAM: I love you so much.

MARISHA: I love you so much.

LIAM: Time to go to bed.

MARISHA: Okay.

MATT: Percival. The castle's dark, it's quiet. The
few lights that are up in the sconces on the

secondary floor as you make your way towards your
sister's chambers. You come to the door, and her

personal guard is there, in Pale Guard armor. As
soon as you begin to approach the steps, gets into

a defensive position and then recognizes you and
steps back and leads you in. As you come inside,

you see Cassandra is currently in her regular
day-to-day clothing, one of her many outfits she

uses for formal meetings. Her hair is a little
frazzled and down in front of her face. She has a

stack of sheets stacked up next to her at this
small desk table that she has in front of one of her

large red velvet sitting chairs. However, she's
not looking at that right now, as she's currently

enthralled with what looks to be a small stack of
cakes and a little tea saucer she's holding up as

she's sipping.

TALIESIN: There's just layers to that trouble,
isn't there? Just layers of paperwork.

MATT: She turns back and looks at you. You see a
little bit of the cake curl at the edge of her

mouth. "Percival!" Takes another sip of the tea
and sets it down. "You've returned!"

TALIESIN: For a while, this time.

MATT: "How have your travels been?"

TALIESIN: Terrible, but all over.

MATT: "That sounds par for the course, I assume."

TALIESIN: I'm back to help. It's my turn.

MATT: "Good! As the sophist of native ingenuity,
you have much responsibility in this time of

"recovery, and I'm growing a bit weary of the
burden."

TALIESIN: I will happily take some layers of both
that paperwork and that cake off your hands.

And I grab a slice.

MATT: She hands it over to you.

TALIESIN: I do ask tomorrow that we handle this
little interesting tidbit. I hand her the

documents I put together earlier with the titling
that needs to be dealt with.

MATT: She takes it and goes, "Huh. Grand Poobah,
that's-- we'll certainly discuss that."

TALIESIN: I expect somebody will come up with
something delightful for that one.

MATT: "We can take our time with that one. I'm not
going to lie, it's been so long, I've forgotten we

have not had any purveyor of the Grey Hunt."

TALIESIN: Quite a while. A long while.

MATT: "So, Vex'ahlia."

TALIESIN: It seemed appropriate. Even before
things became what they are, yes.

MATT: "Before we can officiate that she has to
undergo the Hunt itself."

TALIESIN: Yes.

MATT: "I don't know how that works."

TALIESIN: I--

MATT: "Keeper Yennen might."

TALIESIN: He does, if I recall.

MATT: "Keeper Yennen should know. I'm a bit out of
my depth at this point. I've done--" You see she

sighs deeply and looks over at her garden-- For
the first time in a while, you see Cassandra break

from the stoic leader to Cassandra, your sister,
and she leans forward and takes your hand and

goes, "I'm so very tired. I've missed you. I need
your help. Please."

TALIESIN: We're going to make this right. We're
going to-- the machine will run again. All of this

will work again.

MATT: "I know. They're good people, many good
people here, and you've all saw to that. I've saw

"to it. I need rest."

TALIESIN: I will help.

MATT: "Thank you. There's more cake in it for
you."

TALIESIN: I could use more cake.

MATT: She wipes a little tear from her face. "I'm
glad you're safe."

TALIESIN: How goes the training of the company of
shot?

MATT: "It's functional as it can be. We're having
to ration ammunition as we have to rely on you for

"that and you've been gone."

TALIESIN: Well, we're going to fix that as well.

MATT: "Perhaps you should helm most of that
training since the majority effort has been at the

"hip and making things up as they go."

TALIESIN: The guards? The captain of the guards
has been taking care of everything?

MATT: "Yes, yes. We lost a few in the last
altercations but we have a good long standing

"number of individuals who have stepped up and what
was his name? The one that you brought in?"

TALIESIN: Jarett.

MATT: "Jarett."

TALIESIN: Is he still around?

MATT: "He's been very useful. He's taken care of
most of the low-end training but--"

(laughter)

TALIESIN: I would like to confer with him very
quickly before I go to sleep but other than that

we are back and I look forward to making this move
forward tomorrow morning.

MATT: "Good. Yes. Bring--" She takes the sheet.
"Lady Vex'ahlia to breakfast in the morning and we

"shall discuss her position, responsibilities, and
the necessity of the Hunt."

TALIESIN: I will. Thank you.

MATT: "Of course." She leans back in her chair and
(sighs). "I think it's time for bed." And she gets

up and she goes and closes off the fireplace in
the corner and throws a little bit of water onto

it and puts out the candles in the room.

TALIESIN: I'm going to run by Jarett's on the way
back to my quarters.

LAURA: I ran to Jared's.

MARISHA AND MATT: (sing) It can only be Jared's.

MATT: Jarett-- Jarett doesn't stay in the castle.
Jarett currently stays down in the barracks within

the city of Whitestone proper because he's
responsible for training the recruits and helping

build up their skills.

TALIESIN: All right. Real quick, I'm just going to
write a little post. I'm just going to write a

little letter which I will tell you about in--
well, should I tell you what it is now because the

person who sent it--

SAM: Do we all need to leave?

TALIESIN: No. Well, yes, you all need--

(laughter)

TALIESIN: I'm going to throw a little cash and I'm
going to write a little letter. I'm going to ask

Jared to very very quietly--

LAURA: Jarett.

TALIESIN: Jarett. So sorry. Jarett. I know.

SAM: Dear Jarett, get me some drugs.

TALIESIN: Very quietly on the sly hire someone to
keep very, very distant tabs on Scanlan

Shorthalt.

MATT: Okay.

TALIESIN: I want to know if anything unusual
happens. Not to interfere. Just watch.

LIAM: (Capone voice) I want him dead. I want his
family dead. I want his house burned to the ground!

MATT: How much money to do you attach to the
letter?

SAM: Five gold.

TALIESIN: Five gold pieces.

MATT: 16 copper.

TALIESIN: Where was my-- I'm trying to find my
number. I was going to shoot about 400 gold at it

just to get it done. Seems reasonable.

MATT: That could probably get it done. For a
while.

TALIESIN: Yeah, until he needs more.

MATT: Okay. He's a smart man. He's done different
forms of business. He can let you know if you need

to restock the coffers, if you will. So the
letter's written up, assuredly delivered, and the

evening comes to a close for you guys. At the
tavern, here at the Tipsy Quorum, we have Pike and

Grog catching up on crazy business amongst the
rest of the jovial atmosphere of the tavern as

people have been drinking heavily into the evening
like a city that is still recovering from five

years of perpetual torment does.

ASHLEY: But it's just like, she's so pretty with
like a feather in her hair.

TRAVIS: I know! She's like a bitch but in a
furious way.

ASHLEY: I know! And she's really good with money!

TRAVIS: I know-- And if she gives you the eyebrow
and then you're like--

ASHLEY: I know. And then when she got the broom--

TRAVIS: (sobs) Yeah.

ASHLEY: With her hair--

TRAVIS: I know! And her fur and--

ASHLEY: She's the best.

TRAVIS: (blows nose)

ASHLEY: (blows nose)

TRAVIS: It's not fair, I tell you.

ASHLEY: I know. Ugh.

TRAVIS: Good shit.

ASHLEY: (sighs) Do you know what I do every
night?

TRAVIS: What?

ASHLEY: I sometimes-- I sometimes--

TRAVIS: Yep.

ASHLEY: -- put in my earring and I have
conversations with Scanlan. I know he can't hear.

TRAVIS: Well, who talks back?

ASHLEY: Nobody!

TRAVIS: Aw! That's awful!

ASHLEY: I just tell him how the day was and what I
did and-- you know. I just say-- I don't--

obviously he's not going to talk back.

TRAVIS: (shaky breathing) I've never tried that
before.

ASHLEY: You should try it sometimes or just see,
you know. I know he can't hear.

TRAVIS: Right. Sometimes I go into like, the house
of lady favors--

ASHLEY: Yeah.

TRAVIS: And I'm like, one for me and one for...
me! (sobs)

ASHLEY: (sobs)

(laughter)

ASHLEY: Well.

TRAVIS: How do you think Tary's doing?

ASHLEY: I don't know.

TRAVIS: I don't either.

ASHLEY: I don't know. I felt bad. Once we had the
story then I was like. Maybe-- The story of his

life. I was like, maybe he shouldn't go with her.

TRAVIS: Oh really?

ASHLEY: I don't know. Because he had-- Maybe we
should have found him somebody else.

TRAVIS: Like?

ASHLEY: I guess we didn't find them. She just came
along.

TRAVIS Yeah. I mean, the hunt was on. Yep. You
just got to kind of react at that point.

ASHLEY: Yeah.

TRAVIS: Let the river take you where it will.

ASHLEY: Well. I'm tired now. I said earlier I
wasn't tired, but I do get tired.

TRAVIS: Yeah, I do too. I mean, it's probably
because you've been crying so much.

ASHLEY: I think it just takes so much out of your
body to cry.

TRAVIS: Yeah, yeah. I mean, the water's got to
come from somewhere, right?

ASHLEY: I know. It's like, where does it all come
from? There's so much of it.

TRAVIS: I don't know.

(laughter)

MATT: As Grog passes out at the table next to you,
you look up and at this point, notice that most of

the tavern is now empty and you have no idea what
hour it is but it seems pretty late and pretty

empty. You glance over and as the tavern is still
open, it doesn't really close per se, but the

night shift-- You see Shauna's finishing. She's
throwing a shawl over, she's getting ready to

leave. She looks over and sees you and takes off
her shawl and throws it around Grog.

ASHLEY: Thanks.

MATT: And goes, "Take care of him."

ASHLEY: I will. He's fine.

MATT: "He's dumb."

ASHLEY: He's not as dumb as he seems.

MATT: "That's good. Because he seems pretty
dumb."

ASHLEY: I know it's just-- but his heart is so--
it's just as big as he is.

MATT: "I can tell by the company he keeps. You
guys wouldn't stick around if he wasn't."

TRAVIS: Cheese and flowers. (snores)

MATT: "But I expect you to leave that shawl back
here. It's going to be here in the morning."

ASHLEY: I will. It will be good as new, right here
on the table, folded for you.

MATT: "All right. Well, I guess find a stool and
curl up. I'm going to bed." And she leaves.

ASHLEY: Night, Shauna. It was so nice to meet you.
Thank you so much for everything.

MATT: "You too. What's your name?"

ASHLEY: My name's Pike.

MATT: "Pike. Pleasure to meet you." And she
reaches out and takes your hand.

ASHLEY: It's very nice to meet you.

TRAVIS: (snorts) That's my pinwheel!

ASHLEY: He talks in his sleep. It'll be fine,
don't worry.

MATT: She leaves. Closes the door behind her. You
can choose to eventually pass out with Grog if you

want as well or--

ASHLEY: Well.

MATT: What do you want to do?

ASHLEY: Scanlan? I know you can't hear, but I'm
sitting in a tavern right now with Grog; he just

went to sleep. I had a pretty good day. I had to
do a lot of labor; just lifting stuff into a cart.

And then, you know, Vox Machina, lo and behold,
come home and I see them and now we're here. But

we miss you. I'm going to-- I'm very tired.

(snores)

(laughter)

MARISHA: The saddest thing.

MATT: Aw. And with that, the night comes to a
close. The next morning, the sun rises. Those who

are staying in the castle, you rise to the
familiar smell of early breakfast meats, eggs,

other classic meals being prepared for the various
guard of the castle and those who belong to the

chamber of Whitestone as it currently stands. As
you all begin to convene down there, the two of

you come to consciousness as two giant glasses of
water are slammed on the table from a morning

Shauna arriving-- drags the shawl out from under
Grog's head which is now damp with just a

multitude of drool that has just seeped into it.
She squeezes it out and

sets it on the side of the bar.

TRAVIS: Somebody left that there.

ASHLEY: I wasn't up yet to fix it.

MATT: "It's fine, it's fine."

TRAVIS: It's fine.

MATT: As she starts getting ready and a couple of
the other bar hands start setting up the tavern,

you hear footfalls come rushing down and you watch
as Trisha comes rushing down, putting on her armor

real fast. She's going, "Shit, shit. I'm late!
Shit, shit, shit." and just rushes out the door.

ASHLEY: Oh, she's still-- she stayed the whole
night.

TRAVIS: Yeah. Do you--

ASHLEY: That's a good-- That's a good sign,
right?

TRAVIS: Yeah.

ASHLEY: Sorry--

TRAVIS: Jerky?

ASHLEY: Chicken pot pie.

(laughter)

MATT: About five minutes more, you see the slow
footfalls of Taryon Derrington make his way down

the stairs into the empty tavern. Early morning,
it's maybe 8AM at this point. You can just hear

the birds going on the outside. The blearing sun's
beginning to crest over the mountains--

TRAVIS: We got alcohol sweats.

MATT: Yeah. Nah, you guys are pretty hung over at
this point.

ASHLEY: Just so thirsty.

SAM: Oh, you there. Hello. You're still here?

ASHLEY: We just waited just in case.

SAM: I have a headache. Oof. Rough night, huh?

ASHLEY: How do you-- it was rough? How do you
feel?

(laughter)

SAM: I-- I feel good. Different. Better.

ASHLEY: You feel different?

SAM: I feel-- wow. That Trish is-- she's a lot of
woman. How'd you guys do?

TRAVIS: Oh, enough about us.

ASHLEY: Great meal, great company--

TRAVIS: Yep.

ASHLEY: Great night.

SAM: Yeah, it was something else. I mean, there's
periods that I don't really remember but she was

aggressive when she needed to be and gentle when
she needed to be and-- I've read a lot about--

that-- and a lot of things I've read were true. I
mean, the female form is mysterious and strange

and-- there are curves and--

ASHLEY: So many curves.

SAM: Smells and--

TRAVIS: Tary, you didn't just give each other
massages all night, did you?

SAM: Oh, no.

TRAVIS: Oh, good.

ASHLEY: Details, details. (laughs) Do we need
mimosas?

SAM: I-- I have experienced-- the pleasures of the
flesh. I have now known a woman. It was

outrageous. I didn't really know what I was doing,
but she guided me, sometimes by force.

ASHLEY: Okay.

SAM: But she was also gentle sometimes, and I get
it now. I see the appeal. I understand. Women are

soft and tender and (clears throat)

they are not for me.

(laughter)

SAM: I mean, there are so many holes, and you
don't know which one is the right one.

ASHLEY: You know, it just depends on the day, I
guess.

TRAVIS: Yeah. It can be confusing. Especially in
the dark, right?

SAM: She was so strong, and I was so scared, and I
really think-- (vomiting noises).

(laughter)

TRAVIS: Oh. No.

MATT: Make a constitution saving throw, Grog.

TRAVIS: That's a 16.

MATT: You're okay.

ASHLEY: Okay, you know what? This is what
adventurers do, and you did it--

SAM: No, I see that. I see how people would find
that--

TRAVIS: I feel like we need to commemorate this.
You're not the same man you were when we last saw

you last night.

ASHLEY: Look at that face. You've seen things.

SAM: They're so intricate and soft and I just feel
like I think I know what I like now, and that was

a worthy endeavor, and thank you, Pike for
encouraging it, and Grog for setting me up.

ASHLEY: Without a shadow of a doubt, now you
know.

SAM: I know for sure, 100%. I am not going to do
that ever again with anyone like her or anyone

similar.

TRAVIS: Should we go get tattoos or get you a new
haircut or something to commemorate this?

SAM: No, my body is a temple and I wouldn't sully
it like that.

TRAVIS: It's a temple?

(laughter)

TRAVIS: Well, all right.

ASHLEY: Let's get back. Did you get to sleep, at
all? Do you need sleep?

SAM: When she was finished with me, she let me
curl into a ball.

TRAVIS: (laughs) Did you cast Sanctuary?

(laughter)

SAM: There was a valley between her pecs-- her
breasts, I guess? And there was a nice little

resting place right there that I laid my head for
the night, and she draped her arms over me and

they were like big sweaty blankets. And I needed
to get up to pee in the middle of the night, but I

couldn't, so I just held it.

LIAM: Mercy!

SAM: It was like being attacked by a bear. Have
you seen The Departed?

(laughter)

SAM: Let's go get cleaned up.

TALIESIN: And it's over.

LIAM: Not the chapter of the story we were
expecting.

(laughter)

MATT: Is it ever? I've actually been privy to this
exact conversation with a few guys who found out the

same way in high school. "Nope! Not for me." Oh my
god. That's amazing.

LIAM: My face feels like it's on fire.

MARISHA: Yeah, I feel really pink.

MATT: As you guys are eating breakfast and
Cassandra makes her way down, joins you all and

begins the meal, her personal bodyguard is looking
exhausted and frustrated and tapping the toe.

Eventually you watch as a new guard comes in and,
"I'm so sorry." And they switch out, and the new

personal bodyguard of Cassandra is Trisha, who
stops and sets up and apologizes to Cassandra,

then turns and gets into guard duty and sees the
rest of you eating breakfast and goes--

TRAVIS: Yo.

MATT: "Good morning."

MARISHA: Good morning!

MATT: As you guys now approach and walk in. About
20 minutes later, after this whole conversation,

you guys have cleaned up and made your way, she
says nothing else and is now like, "oh boy."

ASHLEY: Oh, you were just--

MARISHA: Oh! That's why you're being so quiet.
Oh.

MATT: After you guys have had a meal and you guys
have made your way and had this bit of

interaction, where she's like, (shushes).
Cassandra comes over and sits facing you,

Vex'ahlia.

MARISHA: Cassandra. (shushes)

MATT: "All right. Lady Vex'ahlia, me and Percival
had a conversation last night and it's come to my

"attention that you've been granted a title here
within Whitestone."

LAURA: Yes.

MATT: "A title that has been unfulfilled for quite
some time, and I, for one, being the figurehead of

"the city, I wish to welcome you as a member of our
chamber, as the Grand Mistress of the Grey Hunt.

"Do you understand the responsibilities?"

LAURA: I have no idea of the responsibilities. In
fact, I have no idea what being a lady really

means, except for saying I'm a lady every once in
a while.

MATT: "To be perfectly honest, it means very
little."

LAURA: Oh!

MATT: "I can say that from experience. It means
people look at you and expect you to have the

"answer, and you--"

LAURA: Have all the answers.

MATT: She leans in and goes, "And you're really
just making it up best you can, but you do your

"best. But as the Grand Mistress of the Grey Hunt,
upon the completion of the Grey Hunt, you are

"responsible for overseeing local diplomacy and
rooting out mundane and supernatural dangers

"throughout the surrounding Parchwood."

LAURA: All right.

MATT: "To protect the citizens of Whitestone."

LAURA: So I'm like a guard?

TALIESIN: Oh no. More of a-- what would be the
word I would think to use?

MARISHA: Vanquisher.

LAURA: Destroyer of Worlds?

MARISHA: Ooh, yeah. Decimator of Beasts.

MATT: "You will be eventually training and be
granted a cadre of people beneath you as part of

"the Grey Hunt, who you will train and oversee as
they ensure that the surrounding Parchwood is safe

"in the local area around Whitestone. As you may or
may not know, there is a very long history of

"dangers within the forest. This entire valley was
the result of a cataclysmic conflict during the

"Calamity, specifically between the Dawnfather,
Pelor, and a very dark entity. As such, there are

"still scars of the land that give birth to a
multitude of creatures that we need someone to

"ensure do not wander far and begin to destroy
and threaten our people."

LAURA: What kind of creatures are we talking?
Beholder creatures, or big wolf-type creatures?

TALIESIN: Odds and ends. It's less of a guard and
more of a champion.

MATT: "Yes."

LAURA: All right.

MATT: "Your lesser guard keeps watch through
patrols, and when something arises, you find it,

"learn about it, and if it's necessary, destroy
it."

LAURA: Yeah! That's no problem. I'm really tough
and strong and stuff, so yeah, that sounds fine.

LIAM: You can do that.

MATT: "Your skillset actually fits quite well for
this, which I understand is why Percival

"bequeathed this upon you."

TALIESIN: You'll be stronger than the last one, I
will say.

LAURA: When was the last one?

MATT: "That would be--"

TALIESIN: That would have been right before the
unpleasantness.

MATT: "Yes. About three years before the
Briarwoods' arrival. I, at the time, was much

"younger and didn't know much, but Regae, the
individual who currently held the position, was

"not as respected as I think you will easily
become."

TALIESIN: He was under the Anders house, which is
why the Anders house is now forfeit.

LAURA: Oh.

MATT: "I'm so excited! However-- and while I'm
still learning this as I go through our family's

"history and the structure of governance here in
Whitestone, there is-- How do I-- A ritual?"

TALIESIN: That would be--

MATT: "A ceremony that you must undertake."

LAURA: Oh.

MATT: "Just you."

LAURA: Just me?

MATT AND TALIESIN: Just you.

LAURA: What about Trinket?

MATT: "Trinket, I imagine, as your companion,
could be a part of it. However, as the one to be

"titled, this journey is just for you."

TALIESIN: Just for you.

LAURA: Even Keyleth got friends. No?

SAM: Can we watch?

MARISHA: Yay, Vex!

LAURA: Vex.

MATT: "The nature of this is a hunt. And I do not
believe that your skillsets would aid her in the

"speed and tracking that is required for this
particular endeavor."

LIAM: I think you will be fine.

LAURA: Obviously! I mean, I'm going to kick
serious butt, but what if I don't? What happens

then? Do I lose my title? Do I just suck forever?
What?

MATT: "If you do not succeed, then you will have
to wait until the Dawnfather presents the next

"opportunity for the Hunt."

LAURA: Right.

MATT: "I don't know--"

LAURA: When that could--

MATT: "-- when that would be."

LAURA: So wait, has the opportunity presented
itself now?

MATT: "Well, it's as soon as you wish to go and
find your way to the Sun Tree and meditate for the

"sign. I don't know the specifics of this. This is
just from what the--" And she starts pulling over

this cluster of books she had on the side and she
starts rummaging through, and she pulls it over

and goes: "It's unfortunately very vague. And
it's, apparently-- Keeper Yennen might know

"more."

LAURA: Okay.

MATT: "He's the resident priest of Pelor and this
is a ritual of his, but yes."

LAURA: Wonderful. Well, I'm not intimidated by
this at all.

MARISHA: You'll like the Sun Tree, he's very
nice.

LAURA: Great.

MARISHA: Yeah.

LAURA: Great.

TRAVIS: Yeah man, come on.

LIAM: Yeah, this is great.

TRAVIS: It's right up your alley. Tracking,
hunting.

LAURA: Yeah, it's fine. By myself. No big deal. No
big deal.

LIAM: The things you have done--

LAURA: This is nothing.

LIAM: Exactly.

LAURA: Right?

TALIESIN: Right.

LAURA: You're not going to send me out there to
die, Percy.

TALIESIN: Hopefully not.

ASHLEY: Is that a possibility?

SAM: You got this.

LAURA: Thanks, Tary. Look at you, you're so strong
and knowledgeable now.

SAM: Don't look at me.

(laughter)

TALIESIN: We'll go down, learn a little bit more
and begin when you're ready.

LAURA: All right. Sure, yeah. Great. Well, I shove
a bunch of eggs in my mouth and I get up and I'm

going to find Keeper Yennen then.

TALIESIN: I follow.

MATT: All right. Easy enough. You find the
central-- The same open, almost-- What's the term

I'm looking for? It's the half-domed speaking,
presentational--

MARISHA: Like an amphitheatre?

MATT: Amphitheatre! Thank you, yes, that's the
word I was looking for.

MARISHA: Words.

MATT: The amphitheatre set up, which Keeper Yennen
usually keeps for all his various sermons. It's

early enough where nobody has gathered. It is not
any of the chosen weekly holy days of Pelor, so as

you arrive, he looks like he's in the process of
going through and sweeping and doing his morning

ritual of upkeep. And you walk up and you can see
his beard has grown a bit longer now and his grey

has spread a bit since last time you had a true
conversation. It's been a very tense situation.

You can see occasionally the accelerated age that
recent events has imparted upon individuals of the

city. But as he sweeps and notices you arrive,
"Oh, yes!"

LAURA: Hi.

MATT: "Uh."

LAURA: Vex'ahlia.

MATT: "Vex'ahlia, thank you."

LAURA: Lady Vex'ahlia, Grand Mistress of the Grey
Hunt, apparently, which I'm here to talk to you

about.

MATT: "Oh! Excuse me." And he wanders off and he
puts the broom back in this little closet and

clutter falls out. "Oh, god-- Just a--". Puts
things back up. Closes the closet. Hobbles back in

your direction. "You are-- You are the Grand
Mistress of the Grey Hunt?"

LAURA: Apparently.

TALIESIN: She needs to be appropriately
consecrated, obviously.

LAURA: Oh? I thought that happened last night,
dear.

TALIESIN: Shush now.

MATT: He looks lost. "Anyway. It's been some time.
Well." And he starts looking around and pulling up

small scrolls and reading through. He goes and
rummages through and finds one. "Yes, yes, here it

"is. So for the Grand Purveyor of the Grey Hunt,
Mistress in this case, is to go into a state of

"deep meditation at the base of the Sun Tree and
ask for a vision from the great Dawnfather

"himself. There will be imparted upon her, at the
moment of the Grey Hunt, her quarry. You are then

"to find the quarry, wherever it may be within the
Parchwood."

LAURA: Okay.

MATT: "And decide the fate of said quarry."

LAURA: Okay.

MATT: "That's all I have."

LAURA: That's it, huh?

SAM: Super explicit.

LAURA: Yeah, this explains so much.

SAM: Yep, yep.

LAURA: It's very clear.

SAM: Find the thing, decide to do with the thing
what you want to do.

MATT: "We've had previous individuals come from
the Grey Hunt bearing trophies of their hunt.

"Bearing various recovered examples of what they
felled."

LAURA: So I'm supposed to bring back some sort of
trophy, then? That would be good?

MATT: "A sign of your victory, yes."

LAURA: Right. Right.

TALIESIN: A sign of your victory.

LAURA: Right.

TALIESIN: Whatever that victory may be. I've read
a bit. I know a bit about what's to come.

LAURA: All right. Well, thank you, Keeper.

MATT: "Of course. If I may be of aid of any kind,
let me know. Though I don't know how much aid I

"can be in this endeavor. But let me know."

LAURA: Thank you.

MATT: "Good luck." And as you walk, he says,
"Dawnfather smile upon you!"

LAURA: And you! And you. The Dawnfather's Pelor,
right?

TALIESIN: Yeah, you'll do fine.

LAURA: Great.

TRAVIS: Yeah.

LIAM: Heathen.

TRAVIS: So what'd he say?

LAURA: So I'm going to go and sit in front of a
tree. I'm going to think real hard. I'm going to

talk to a god and then I'm going to go kill
something.

TALIESIN: Maybe.

TRAVIS: She's so cool.

ASHLEY: She's the coolest.

LAURA: Potentially.

TRAVIS: Right?

MARISHA: Yeah.

SAM: Super cool.

LAURA: Looking good, Tary, looking good.

LIAM: If you feed it though, she becomes
unbearable. Just temper that a little bit.

ASHLEY: It's okay. I don't mind feeding it.

TRAVIS: When are you going to do this amazing
think-real-hard?

LAURA: Well, fuck it.

ASHLEY: Now.

MARISHA: I buried a secret clubhouse under
Whitestone, at the roots of the Sun Tree. And

sometimes I go there and I talk to him.

LAURA: I remember you doing that.

MARISHA: I realise this sounds very uncool when I
say it out loud.

TRAVIS: Yeah, pretty uncool.

TALIESIN: You're supposed to build the treehouse
in the top of the tree.

MARISHA: You're so cool, but I totally didn't put
the treehouse in the top of the tree. I totally

put it underneath the city. But there's a
treehouse. There's a clubhouse.

LAURA: I like this! Technically, I'm supposed to
be at the base of the tree, right?

MARISHA: You can go there and be alone, and it's
so quiet and peaceful and dark.

LAURA: What if Pelor can't see underground? What
if he needs to see me in the sun?

LIAM: What if one of the gods cannot see you
underground?

LAURA: I don't know how gods work.

LIAM: I think he can see you underground.

LAURA: I don't know.

LIAM: Yep. Nope.

MARISHA: Although sometimes I do climb into the
tree and I hug onto one of the branches--

LAURA: Solid. I'm just going to walk towards the
tree.

(laughter)

TALIESIN: I'm just going to follow in before we
send you off into this.

MATT: All right. You walk up and, I mean, the
city's starting to slowly spring to life as the

morning hours climb forward. People are arriving
and putting the last touches on the caravan. The

Pale Guard is finished and they've assigned the
division between those who are going to stay and

those who are to escort the caravan to Emon. Pike,
are you with the rest of the party?

ASHLEY: Yeah, I need to see what's going on.

MATT: As you're walking, one of the Pale Guards
sees you and walks up and goes, "Lady Pike? Are

"you to join us on the caravan?"

ASHLEY: That was today?

(laughter)

MATT: "We're leaving. It's-- I mean, I just don't
know."

ASHLEY: What-- Oh! What exactly were we doing? I'm
sorry, I've had a night.

MATT: "You escorted the caravan from Emon to
Whitestone and now we're returning to Emon from

"Whitestone with the caravan. I just wanted to know
if you wished to come or stay. We're leaving right

"now."

ASHLEY: Oh. No.

TRAVIS: No!

ASHLEY: I'm-- No.

TRAVIS: No!

MATT: "All right. Great. No, that's all right."

ASHLEY: I'm saying, I've just been waiting for
them anyway. I'm going to stay.

LAURA: She's going to stay.

MATT: Behind this tiny, plated, gnomish form
there's this gargantuan goliath with rage in his

eyes. And he goes "All right! No, that's fine.
We're-- We're going to go." And he just turns and

leaves and runs towards the caravan.

ASHLEY: Bye! Be safe.

(laughter)

MARISHA: I need to learn from Pike and Grog how to
say no.

(laughter)

MATT: So, Lady Vex'ahlia, you've found yourself at
the base of the Sun Tree.

LAURA: Yes.

MATT: As you look up at it, the morning sun-- At
this point, the clouds that gathered yesterday

have all subsided and you have this beautiful
clear blue sky ahead of you. The morning sun's

coming down. The tree is beautiful as you're
watching it slowly blossom now as the months have

passed. You start seeing green in the boughs. The
occasional pod that might eventually flower as the

season allows it. But it's serene. And as
occasionally a breeze blows through, you hear the

various branches hit and some of the leaves shake.
It's a beautiful sight. What do you want to do?

LAURA: Did you want to say something, Percy?

TALIESIN: I just wanted to let you know that when
I sort of sprung this title on you, I chose the

Grey Hunt specifically. The Third House is easy,
it's just land and title. It doesn't mean

anything. As a child, the Grey Hunt was
fascinating because it was a title that one

earned. And I felt that you should have something
like this that no one could do otherwise other

than claim that you earned it. This is not
something that can be given and you're going to be

fine. I have complete faith.

LAURA: I give him a big hug and a kiss. I love
you, dear.

TALIESIN: I love you, too. Good luck.

LAURA: Thank you. All right, get the fuck away
from me. I've got to meditate.

TALIESIN: Backing off.

MATT: As you all separate and scatter off into
your own business for the day in Whitestone.

Vex'ahlia, you find a comfortable place at the
base of the tree. You sit, cross your legs, look

up, and close your eyes and concentrate.

LAURA: I feel itchy, but I'm okay. I'm going to
stay still.

MATT: What thoughts are on your mind? What do you
wish to do? What is your approach to this

meditation?

LAURA: Okay. He said I'm supposed to meditate on
the tree? Or on Pelor? I'm going to try thinking

about the tree first. A lot. I'm thinking about
the leaves swaying and I think about finding a

quarry and, you know, hunting things. Then I'm
going to start thinking about what it feels like

to walk through the woods barefoot and hear the
leaves crunching underneath my feet and hear twigs

breaking as I hunt creatures and track them.

MATT: Okay. As you focus on this and you can hear
the breeze. You extend what best can be described

as your current consciousness or imagination to
the breadth of the Parchwood that consumes the

valleys of the Alabaster Sierras surrounding
Whitestone. You focus. And you remember the

journeys you had in the trees when you first
arrived. The wandering hunt, the phantom

individual wandering the trees in the distance
that you didn't quite mark. And you're curious

about that moment and you start thinking about the
people that have lived here their whole life and

think of the toil. And then your eyes open and the
sun, which was just beginning to come over the

hills into the sky, is now far past the horizon.
You're unsure how much time has passed, but you've

had no vision. You've had no words, no sign, and
you're now starting to hit into the afternoon.

You've probably been here for a number of hours at
this point. And you're starting to feel the sweat

drip beneath the armor. Discomfort's settling in a
little bit. And you're beginning to feel that

conscious difficulty with separating what your
mind is trying to do and what your body is telling

you it's not enjoying.

LAURA: Okay. I should've learned Speak With Plants
from Keyleth. I'm going to sink down and I'm going

to take my armor off and try to feel the bark
beneath my back.

MATT: Okay. So you turn around, armor off, just
wearing your undertunic, and you press your back

against the actual tree itself, leaning your head
against it, and you close your eyes again and

begin to concentrate. At this point in the day,
the sun has crested over, so the shadow is still

hitting you from the side of the tree. So you're
not as warm as you were before. You focus, and you

concentrate again on the expanse of this
landscape, the strange difference between the warm

midday, the cold mornings and evenings, and the
freezing nights that bring mists and low clouds

that shroud Whitestone in this somewhat
middle-to-northern area of Tal'Dorei itself into

the mystic, dark mythology that has encapsulated
it since it was first founded. After a while of

concentrating and letting your mind wander, your
eyes open again, and now you're hitting sunset.

It's growing colder, the breeze has picked up a
bit, and you see some clouds making their way

slowly from the wind of the southwest, cresting
over the mountains on the western side, the

Alabaster Sierras. No vision, no words. You can
start seeing now people are walking the street,

watching you strangely as they pass. You hear
horse hooves hitting as they pass by with carts

and people stop and stare and awkwardly whisper to
each other and keep walking.

LAURA: This sucks. Is anybody around that I know?

MATT: Currently, no.

LAURA: Good. I feel really stupid right now. Fuck!
I'm going to try going underneath the tree where

Keyleth said.

Where the little treehouse was.

MATT: Okay, you find your way to the small tunnel
that you guys first carved when you arrived in

Whitestone from what was previously an abandoned
tavern that has been reclaimed. As you enter, you

can see now the covered windows have been
reopened. The place, while not a fully functional

tavern yet, is in the process of being renovated
to start a business again soon. So as you enter

the front door you see about five different
carpenters or various workers that are in the

process of renovating the interior that all turn.
"Can I help you?"

LAURA: Yeah, actually. Don't mind me, I just have
a treehouse to get to. And I walk through and go

under.

MATT: Make a persuasion check!

LAURA: I don't know, man.

LIAM: It's all right, it's all right. 
Middle of the road.

LAURA: 15.

MATT: 15? Okay. The guy looks at you and goes--

LAURA: I wink at him, keep walking.

MATT: "I mean, I have no idea what that means,
but--"

LAURA: But you like it. You like it. And I keep
going.

MATT: "We're going to send Joseph, just to keep an
eye. Joseph?" And this one guy turns around and he

looks a little touched. He turns around and goes,
"Okay! I'll follow her."

LAURA: Joseph? If you could wait at the door, that
would be really helpful.

MATT: "I can do that!"

LAURA: Thank you!

MATT: "Yeah! I'll wait by the door! Right?" "Sure,
whatever, man, go for it. It's fine." And they go

back to fixing the inside. They're fixing windowsills.
Joe, who seems to be a really sweet guy

probably in his mid-to-late 30s, shaved head
that's just starting to come in a little bit,

square jaw, but it's Slingblade-style hung off to
one side a little. But he seems like he's a fair

worker and intent on the job that is set before
him.

LAURA: You're doing good work, Joseph!

MATT: "Thank you!" And he follows you in as you
enter the tunnel and begins to walk in the tunnel

with you.

LAURA: At the door!

MATT: "Ah! Right! This isn't a door."

LAURA: (laughs) All right. Keep walking.

MATT: All right.

LAURA: As I go, I want to put my hands on the
roots and I'm going to say, hey, Sun Tree! I know

I can't hear you, but I really need your help
right now. And I hope you can hear me. I don't

know how to do this, exactly, but I need to talk
to Pelor, and there's a lot of people that are

looking at me like I know what I'm doing, but I
have no freaking clue. So if you could help guide

me, that would be great. I sit down and I keep my
hands on the roots.

MATT: As you concentrate and keep your hands on
the roots, time passes, what seems like ten, 20,

30, 60 minutes of silence, occasionally broken by
a voice down the hallway going, "You okay?"

LAURA: Yes!

MATT: "All right!" You come back to focusing on
the task at hand, and at times you catch yourself.

You swear you feel the roots get warmer and then
you, conscious of it, and you feel along, and no,

it's probably about the same. You may have psyched
yourself out, you're not sure. Close your eyes

again and you focus. As the boredom instinctively
sets in, you have a hard time standing still.

You're an individual who likes being bombarded
with sensory elements. You're a person who needs

to know what's going on around you, you always
have been. That sense of self-preservation,

paranoia, whatever you want to call it, is being
conflicted heavily with the idea of being still,

quiet, and focused for a protracted period of
time. You're battling that antsiness, you are far

too conscious of your physical body and the
discomfort you're feeling. I want you to go ahead

and make a wisdom saving throw.

LAURA: God damn it! Ten.

MATT: Ten? You can feel the pain begin to
rise from sitting for so long. Your pelvic bone,

from being in that position for a long period of
time, is beginning to grow more and more sore. You

begin to shift in place and as you do, it doesn't
help. So you shift again, that doesn't help. And

every single position you try and shift, it seems
to throb in pain from being stationary for so long

in a position that you're not used to. It's
distracting to you. Eventually a voice comes

through down the hallway that goes, "All right,
we're done and we're leaving. You good?"

LAURA: Great, Joseph. You know what?

MATT: "What?"

LAURA: Thanks! For everything, have a good night.

MATT: "You too!"

LAURA: Okay!

MATT: "You okay in there?"

LAURA: I'm great, you can go. You can go.

MATT: "Looks scary."

LAURA: It's not. But don't come down here, thank
you.

MATT: "All right. Well, have a good night, miss!"

LAURA: Okay!

MATT: You hear the footsteps grow quieter and
quieter and then a (kch) as the hatch that led to

the basement that you carved the tunnel from
closes.

LAURA: Is Trinket here with me?

MATT: Trinket is in your necklace.

LAURA: Pop that fucker out.

MATT: Very tight space. There's now a big bear and
you're like (rrr) on the side.

LAURA: Hi! Sorry about that. Are you okay? Are
you comfy? Are you all right? Is this too big?

MATT: Backs up into the tunnel partway and is now
borderline Winnie the Pooh in the tree. Trinket's

like fitting in there, but snugly, but is--

TRAVIS: Cat trying to squeeze in the shoebox.

LAURA: How much can you stay still?

MATT: (grunts)

LAURA: I'm going to cast Speak with Animals.

MATT: Okay.

LIAM: (Winnie the Pooh voice) Oh, bother.

LAURA: Trinket?

MATT: "I can, I can be still."

LAURA: Can you come over here?

MATT: "Oh, I guess." Crawls forward back into the
space, ducking his head under the various tree

roots like, (grunts)

LAURA: I'm going to just lay down, dear, I'm just
going to lean on you. I just need you right now.

MATT: He, as uncomfortable in the moment as it is,
he curls up and forms a crescent, soft bear

barrier. A bear-rier, if you will.

(groaning)

MATT: Sorry.

TRAVIS: Beautiful.

LIAM: You did that.

MATT: You lean back into Trinket and the warmth is
comforting, as it is getting colder here,

especially beneath the earth in a space that,
aside from the natural earth insulation, the cold

of the night of Whitestone does get pretty
biting.

LAURA: Yeah.

MATT: The warmth is welcome. And you think
back and you have really no sense of what time it

is, you really don't. You have no idea how long
you've been in there. It could have been minutes,

hours, it's hard to tell.

LAURA: It's days down here, Trinket. We're
imprisoned forever! This fucking title! I thought

I wanted it! I thought I did!

MATT: Trinket goes, "Really?"

LAURA: Yeah, I know!

MATT: "I don't want to stay here forever."

LAURA: Well, it's not going to be forever,
eventually we'll get sick of it, dear.

MATT: "Okay."

LAURA: And then we'll leave.

MATT: And Trinket kind of falls asleep.

LAURA: I lean back on him and just look up at the
roots and say, oh, Pelor! You have something to

tell me and I want to hear it! And I'm getting
tired of being down here but I swear I'm fine, I'm

going to keep concentrating, because I'm committed
to you and I'm committed to this Hunt and I'm

committed to this title and this city... and your
tree, and your leaves, and your trunk, and these

roots, and the dirt around me, and all of that.
And I'm going to keep thinking.

MATT: Okay. As you're thinking about this, you're
leaning back into Trinket. The warmth is

comforting. Make another wisdom saving throw.

LIAM: Girl!

LAURA: All right!

LIAM: Come on, girl!

MARISHA: Come on, get it!

LAURA: Oh, I thought that was a 20, but it's not.

LIAM: Not quite.

LAURA: 15.

MATT: 15, okay. You lean back on Trinket and you
watch this darkened space where there's no light,

so you're relying on your elvish Darkvision, your
half-elf's Darkvision, you're still taking in this

space. There's no color, but you understand the
shapes, the shapes of the roots, and what seems

like days go by and your mind wanders to Percival,
your mind wanders to your recent venture in the

Hells, to Pike's return, to wondering what the
hell Scanlan's up to, to what does this even mean,

is this worth it? What are you going to do, stay
here? The whole point of you and your brother was

to go and wander and not be behooven to anything,
to be free. But then, what is freedom at that

point? Is it taking responsibility? Your mind
cyclically continues to fold in itself, all these

questions and these answers, and then questions
and those answers, and before you begin to

realize, you begin to fall asleep. You swear for a
moment you begin to see the roots of the Sun Tree

begin to grow, and curl in your direction, and you
try and move but you find yourself unable to,

paralyzed against the back of Trinket. You glance
over your shoulder, just look over it. Trinket

isn't Trinket, Trinket is more roots that are
curled in around you. There is a clasp of various

growing subterranean plant life that is just
beginning to impose in your space. Your vision

begins to dull to blackness.

You watch as the roots reach out and grab around
the sides of your head and your neck and pull you

and lift you up, and you start having flashes,
memories, of the interior of the tree in the

Feywild, of the way those roots looked,
ever-reaching, hungry, trying to grasp whatever

life and emotion they can find. And that fear
begins to seek up into your throat, but you

withstand it. Your understanding of the importance
of this and knowing that this can't be real, you

shrug off this vision in spite of the roots
bringing darkness to your vision. Everything goes

cold and still. And then the darkness opens up
once more, like your eyes, the lids just fold to

reveal a beautiful moonlight-dappled pristine
glass-like pond in the middle of a deep forest.

A very thickly wooded forest with a very, very
small series of gaps in the canopy that allow

these beams of white moonlight to hit the surface,
to refract. Still, calm, cold, quiet. A very faint

mist has gathered across the surface of this
water.

You just observe, timeless. You don't feel
yourself breathing, and you feel like, "I should

"be breathing. Am I dead? I should breathe, that's
what it means to live." But you don't sense that

experience, and by the time that thought crosses
you to the point where you can feel the panic

beginning to brim up in the back of your mind, the
water breaks and you watch as a shape emerges from

the surface of the water. Ripples begin to cascade
out from the outside of the shape as it steps,

one, two, three times, bipedal in movement, this
large humanoid shape begins to step forth from the

water. You see this almost ten-foot-tall humanoid
mass begin to step out from the water. You can

see, from the glistening liquid that is just
coasting off of its back and body, unkept by any

fur or flesh, there is a hide, a rhino-like thick
gray scaled almost hide, that seems to cover the

entirety of its form. But what you see is its
back, this massive muscled shoulder shelf, and two

tree trunk-like arms that just swing and dangle
from the sides as it begins to step further and

further out of this pond. And at first you see
this creature, but you still sense it belonging.

And then you sense that there's a reason for this
emergence, and at that point you watch as the

creature, which is now maybe up to its waist,
pushing onto knee-depth in the water, as it

reaches the edge of the surface. You don't see its
face, you just see over its shoulder and its

massive back, no head emerging over top. It stops
and turns back, and as the shoulder turns you can

see the head, which is actually protruding forward
out of the torso, this slumped plated armored head

with a jaw that hinges underneath closed with a
series of teeth in the bottom, and what you see

for just a glimmer are its yellow eyes glowing,
all six of them, in rows of two across the top as

it glances back in your direction. And it just
leaps out of the water and begins darting through

trees and vanishing in the distance, and you
realize the Hunt is on. Your vision comes back to

you, there's no vines, and Trinket is just
sleeping behind you, and you're there in the cold

darkness beneath the Sun Tree. What do you do?

LAURA: (laughs) It worked! It worked! You are
awesome, Sun Tree! You're the best! Pelor, that is

some fucked up shit. Okay. Trinket, wake up! We
have to go hunt a thing that looks really scary!

I'm going to die! How about you?

MATT: "Um. Hopefully not?"

LAURA: Good call! Let's go!

MATT: "Okay."

LAURA: Oh fuck.

LIAM: Get it, girl.

MATT: So what're you doing?

LAURA: Do I just fucking go straight for it?

MATT: What are you doing? What are you doing?

LAURA: I don't know! I don't know how to go find
the lake that he came out of!

LIAM: You're the best!

MARISHA: You're a fucking ranger!

LAURA: Do I remember what it smelled like? It's
really fast, it was going through the trees. Do I

remember a specific look? Do I remember hearing
about a lake in the woods?

MATT: You remember seeing it as it leapt, you got
a very quick glimpse at its shape and its feet,

its giant clawed fingers, its humanoid-like hands.
You don't know of a scent, per se. Go ahead and

roll an investigation check to look back over the
memory of what you have and pick out details.

LAURA: Okay, and I definitely put my armor back
on.

MATT: Mm-hm. So you're putting on your armor as
you're rushing out of the area.

LAURA: What am I rolling?

MATT: Investigation.

LAURA: I'm rolling really great tonight.

LIAM: You are rolling dogshit tonight.

LAURA: Which is great! 11.

MATT: 11, okay. Best you can tell, given the
circumstances, the brief vision you had, the angle

of the moonbeams are coming from the right and
left, meaning from your perspective, they're

coming at this angle upon the water. And as you
step out into the night, you can see the moon is

in a certain place in the sky where your vision,
if that is in--

LAURA: If I turn that way, it'll be coming at me
this way.

MATT: Depending on if it's in a northern direction
or not. You're trying to think of where the lake

was. There are a couple of ponds that you've seen
in the forest. You're not fully aware. Percival

might be the person to ask about this.

LAURA: Okay, okay. I'm going to run to Percy. Do I
need to-- ooh, am I allowed to ask him? I'm going

to run to Percy.

MATT: Okay. Percival, you've kind of been hoping
that everything worked out okay. You haven't heard

anything from Vex'ahlia since the morning. She's
been gone for a good 13 hours at this point, and

it's close to midnight.

LAURA: At least I got some sleep!

MATT: A little bit.

TALIESIN: I'm in my study working on things.

MATT: You're in the process of going through books
and such, and all of a sudden there's a rush of

footsteps and Vex'ahlia comes bursting into your
room.

LAURA: I had a vision!

TALIESIN: Excellent! Excellent!

LAURA: Yeah! It looks really, really scary though!
So thank you!

TALIESIN: I'm so sorry, and excited!

LAURA: Okay, I have a question.

TALIESIN: Yes.

LAURA: I saw a lake, a glade, do you know of any?

MATT: She describes the pond, and it's a smallish
pond.

LAURA: Glass-like.

TALIESIN: I have a map in my study and I just pull
it out and just hand it. I must have a map.

MATT: You do, yeah.

LAURA: Percy, do you know of anything that's big
and tall, around ten feet, has six eyes going

straight down in a row in pairs, really thick hide
skin, legs like trunks--

TALIESIN: Grog when I'm drunk?

LAURA: Well.

TALIESIN: Do I know anything?

MATT This is not your specialty. You haven't dealt
with the Grey Hunt personally, and this is not

ringing a bell.

LAURA: Is it usually different creatures?

TALIESIN: It's different every time.

LAURA; Okay. Hey! Do you remember when we were
coming here, and we were camping out in the woods

outside and there was a woman, I think, that
walked by with a pack of, was it wolves?

TALIESIN: Yes. That was a long time ago.

LAURA: Did that have anything to do with this?

TALIESIN: I don't know.

LAURA: Great. Just wondering. Just thought of it.
Okay. I might see you later! And I go.

MATT: As you dart out, Trinket lumbering after
you, you look at the map, and based on the

conversation you had as well, there are two
different locations that have ponds roughly the

size that your vision revealed to you. Both of
them have a slight break in the canopy. That's a

key that you remember from this, and being a
tracker specifically you know that most of the

forest, the Parchwood itself, is very dense
canopy, it rarely has breaks enough to allow that

much moonlight to pass through. I need you to go
ahead and make an intelligence check.

LAURA: Okay, okay, okay, roll good. Roll good, all
right?

LIAM: Come on, Laura Bailey.

LAURA: Stop rolling like shit, all right?

ASHLEY: Come on, come on, come on.

LIAM: Laura!

LAURA: Oh god, I thought that said a one.
Investigation, 24.

TALIESIN: Yeah!

MARISHA: Hey!

TRAVIS: Get it, get it!

MATT: This is an intelligence check, so you should
add your intelligence modifier.

LAURA: Fuck.

MARISHA: Aw. Hey hey hey.

LAURA: An intelligence check would be 19.

ALL: Hey!

MATT: That's still very good!

LAURA: Okay.

MATT: You ascertain, between the two locations on
the map, the one that would contain both the right

amount of canopy that would be open, and the size
of the pond, and the location of the moon, would

be far, far west of Whitestone, slightly north,
beginning to just get near to where the Alabaster

Sierra mountain range hits the bottom of the
valley, so you know that's probably your best bet

to get there.

LAURA: I hop on Trinket's back and we take off.

MATT: You leap on to the back of your bear. He
goes into a full sprint out of the city. The few

folks that are kind of drunkenly wandering through
the city or in the process of making their way

home, they all step aside as Vex'ahlia, Lady
Vex'ahlia of the Grey Hunt--

LAURA: I'm a lady!

MATT: -- on top of Trinket the bear, comes tearing
through Whitestone to the west, barreling towards

the gap in the exterior wall of the city, and
charging into the depth of the Parchwood Forest.

Following the map and keeping tabs on direction,
about 40 minutes or so of travel, you eventually

come upon where you think this pond should be. Go
ahead and roll a survival with advantage.

LAURA: Oh yeah, because this is my favored
terrain!

MATT: Yes.

LAURA: That was the same thing both times.

LIAM: Oh, double 14s.

LAURA: So 22.

MATT: 22. You make your way and you find the pond,
and you recognize it exactly the moment you get

there. This is exactly the pond in your vision.

LAURA: This is where it was!

MATT: You glance over and start finding your way
around the edge, and eventually you find the

thick, heavy footfalls right beneath the water. He
leapt straight out of the water so there were no

tracks directly out of it, but you look just
beneath the surface.

LAURA: I remember him jumping into the trees!

MATT: Yes, you look up and you can see a few
branches are broken, and you begin to trace the

direction of where it went.

LAURA: I cast Pass Without a Trace on myself, and
I'm going to stealth after him.

MATT: Okay. All right, go ahead and roll a stealth
check. Are you still on Trinket for this?

LAURA: I'm going to put him in the locket for the
time being.

MATT: Trinket goes into the necklace. Go ahead and
roll stealth with your Pass Without a Trace

bonus.

LAURA: Oh, right! 33.

MATT: 33, okay. Very quietly, you dart up into the
trees and begin leaping from broken branch to

broken branch. Eventually it leads you into a
small opening between a series-- the trees here

are truly thick, but there's certain areas where
they begin to separate a bit, and you can see

heavy impacts where it leapt down and found some
soft ground and begins running. And you can see

the tracks, and you take a moment and study these
tracks, and you can see exactly how these thick

three-toed feet of the creature dig into the dirt,
and you take a very, very close watch on them. I need

you to go ahead and make another wisdom survival
check to see where those

footfalls will take you.

LAURA: So again, a 24. Oh wait, 22.

MATT: 22, okay. So you begin darting through, and
you notice there are points where it leaps into

the trees and vanishes. The trail stops, but you
can follow brief bits. But this creature's heavy,

you can see it doesn't leap into the boughs and
hang on a branch, it leaps up onto an actual tree

trunk and then leaps off the trunk, and where it
does, the bark splinters and breaks. Whatever this

is, it's extremely dense. It's extremely heavy.
And to have the power and strength to lift its

form on that thickness means it has some power
behind it. Continuing to keep tabs, you're darting

through the dark woods. Out of the right of you,
you hear a sudden noise, and you are surprised, as

a series of birds come fluttering past you,
apparently startled from something nearby, and you

watch as a forest elk darts past and is a sign
of-- you know, naturally in this environment-- of

relatively recent movement. And you get the sense
that you might be gaining on this creature,

whatever it's charging.

LAURA: Oh my god, oh my god, oh my god.

MATT: So as you're leaping and running and making
the best possible path you can, eventually, the

trail begins to grow a little cold, and you find a
small glade--

LAURA: A small poo.

MATT: Yeah, I know. About 30 feet across. The
trees open and there's this space and it's

pristine, untouched. The trail ends entirely.

LAURA: It's just gone?

TRAVIS: What does that mean?

LIAM: Ceiling!

LAURA: Can I look up?

MATT: Make a perception check.

MARISHA: You're making me chew my nails.

LAURA: It's an open glade, you said?

MATT: It's a clearing in the forest where the
canopy opens a bit, and there's thick brush, and

you can see some of the roots of the trees pop up
in places, but as opposed to previously, where the

trees are pretty clustered together and you can
find your way through the slight gaps, this area

is open by about 30 feet.

LAURA: That's okay. I get advantage because that's
my favored terrain. That's cocked. I can see

that's a four, though.

TRAVIS: It's cocked. It's leaning up against the
side.

LIAM: Go again.

LAURA: That's worse.

LIAM: One and a two!

ALL: Oh no.

LAURA: But my perception is 13, so that's 15 for
perception.

LIAM: That's great, because you're badass.

LAURA: Wow. Really? You dicks. Why are you
betraying me in this moment that I need you the

most?

MATT: Okay, so as you reach this clearing, you
glance about, and it appears to be empty. There's

nothing here. There's no sign. You can attempt to
find tracks, if you'd like.

LAURA: But I'd have to hop down on the
ground.

MATT: You're currently up in the tree, yes.

LAURA: I'm still stealthed, though.

MATT: You are.

LAURA: I'm going to climb down the tree.

MATT: Okay, you find your way, stepping onto the
somewhat soft floor of the forest.

LAURA: Oh, that's actually really good. I'm going
to take a minute. I don't know what kind of

creature it is, though. I don't know if I can use
my Primeval Awareness.

MATT: Well, you can certainly try.

LAURA: I'm going to try my Primeval Awareness.

MATT: Okay, and what are you concentrating on?

LAURA: Maybe--

LIAM: Turducken.

LAURA: I've got aberrations. It's not a celestial,
probably. It didn't seem like an elemental. So

I've got fiends. Those are guys that come from--

LIAM: That's where we just were.

LAURA: Yeah, the Hells. The aberrations.

LIAM: Possible.

LAURA: Fey.

LIAM and MARISHA: (uncertain noises)

LAURA: I'm going to go aberrations. Do I have to
choose one?

MATT: Yeah.

LAURA: Aberrations are what, like a beholder?

LIAM: Grody things.

MATT: Things that generally come from some touch
of the Far Realm.

LAURA: I'm going to focus on that.

MATT: Okay. As you sit there and focus, what level
are you using? Level one?

LAURA: Yeah, so it's within a mile of me. Oh, up
to six within my favored terrain.

MATT: True. All right. You sense no nearby
aberrations.

LAURA: Okay. Can I take another second and think
about fiends? No, fey.

MATT: Okay, you concentrate on fey. Nothing.

LAURA: Gosh darn it! Is there nothing in my
Primeval Awareness? Okay.

MATT: What are you doing, Vex'ahlia?

LAURA: I'm going to see if I can find any tracks.

MATT: Okay, make a survival check with advantage.

LAURA: Oh, but that's cocked! It's cocked, but
it's a 20, but it's cocked. Okay, that's still

good. 24.

MATT: 24. Okay, and also if you could roll stealth
again since you are actively doing something.

LAURA: I roll twice? Do I roll twice?

MATT: No, just roll.

LAURA: 32.

MATT: 32. Okay. You step out into the shadow,
using the edges, and you do see the very faint

trail-- not of feet on the ground, but of claw
marks, carefully placed. Almost like it

monkey-walked along the sides of this glade. The
tracks and claw marks stop in this small cluster

of bushes where inside, you can just barely see
the faintest hidden glow of six tiny yellow dots.

LAURA: Is it looking at me?

MATT: It's hard to tell the direction.

LAURA: Yeah. I'm going to take out an arrow.

MATT: Okay.

LAURA: Oh god. And I'm going to fire a Bramble
Shot at the eyes, and I'm Sharpshooter.

MATT: You are. Okay, Sharpshooter, so minus five
to hit, plus ten to damage. Go for it.

LAURA: I mean I get no--

LIAM: She doesn't have to do that. She can just
ignore cover.

LAURA: Three-quarter--

MATT: Oh, I see. Yeah, you can do that.

SAM: Sniper, starring Billy Zane.

TALIESIN: Oh shit, the tiny trees have come out!

LAURA: Oh! I could, if I didn't put my Hunter's
Mark on it, but I'm going to Hunter's Mark him

before I do that.

MATT: Okay.

SAM: Hunter's Mark.

TRAVIS: Oh, breaking out the foliage!

MATT: The general circle here.

TRAVIS: (sings) It's a circle of trees.

MATT: As I do not have the actual mini for the
creature this is working for, but this will give

the idea.

TRAVIS: Oh my god, look at that thing.

LAURA: Oh, he's huge. Maybe this was a mistake. I
should have talked to him.

TRAVIS: I should have talked? No.

LAURA: I'm trying to Bramble Shot him.

LIAM: You've got this.

MATT: Okay, we'll put that there.

LIAM: (sings) Matt owns tiny trees!

LAURA: And wait, before I did that, I get my broom
ready, and then I'm going to do what I said.

MATT: Okay, you get your broom ever so carefully
ready. You Hunter's Mark him.

TRAVIS: Like that guy when he's unloading the
shotgun in Jurassic Park?

LAURA: Yeah, clever girl!

(laughter)

LAURA: Oh no, is that what this is going to be?

MATT: Hunter's Mark and you're taking your Bramble
Shot. Go for it.

LAURA: I got 29.

MATT: 29. That hits. What's the saving throw on
that?

LAURA: DC 17.

MATT: That is a 20. Sorry.

LAURA: He is not restrained, but he does take an
additional 4d8 of damage.

MATT: Yes.

LAURA: Which is right here. Ten, 15, 21 Bramble
Shot damage.

LIAM: Thorns.

LAURA: Yes. Ten, 11, 12, 13, 14. Was this a
surprise attack?

MATT: Yes.

LAURA: So isn't that an automatic crit as an
Assassin?

MATT: Yeah, because you're an Assassin, it is. So
with all the dice involved there, that's 21 times

two, that's 42.

MATT: Plus your arrow. What did you roll for the
arrow?

LAURA: Plus the what?

MATT: What's the actual arrow damage?

LAURA: Arrow damage was two, lightning damage was
two.

MATT: Okay, so that's eight, plus whatever your
modifier is.

LAURA: One for Hunter's Mark, and then I get a
Sneak Attack on him, too. And then four for that.

MATT: Nice! That is 56 points of damage.

LAURA: Plus ten additional for the eight and the
two for the bracers.

MATT: Right. Never mind, that's 66 points of
damage. As you pull back and carefully aim, the

arrow disappears and you watch as there's a flash
of green energy, the arrow impacting on this

creature, and the vines curl around. You hear a
(roar) and the bushes explode as this entity steps

out, tearing the vines off its body, throwing them
to the ground as they shrivel and shake and then

turn to dust and dissipate into the underbrush. As
the creature steps out and looks directly at you,

its six glowing eyes in a three by three pattern
staring right at you, the arcing of the energy

finishing throughout its body, it stands upright
for a moment. Its hunched form goes almost more

humanoid and it looks at you with an intelligence
that you didn't expect. It takes a step, and

another step, and seems to almost give you a nod
of respect. Roll initiative.

(cheering, laughter)

LIAM: Laura Bailey one-on-one Dungeons and Dragons
fight!

LAURA: Oh no! Only ten. Oh, wait. Do I get to roll
twice because I'm in my favored terrain?

MATT: All right, you call on this favored terrain
thing a lot. Let me see what it actually helps.

(laughter)

MATT: There are specifics as to what your favored
terrain is aided by. Do I win Dungeons and Dragons

'cause of my favored terrain?

TALIESIN: That's funny because Dungeons and
Dragons is my favored terrain.

(laughter)

LAURA: It all makes sense now.

TRAVIS: I should really be rolling better in
taverns, though.

TALIESIN: Tavern as favored terrain is genius.

MARISHA: That actually is genius.

LAURA: You can have urban settings as your favored
terrain.

MARISHA: Yeah, you can have urban settings.

MATT: Nope! It just means that for your
intelligence and wisdom checks related to the

terrain, your proficiency bonus is doubled. So
technically, not even advantage, but it's worked

out fine. So no, you do not get advantage for
that. What did you roll?

LAURA: Ten for initiative.

MATT: Total initiative of ten?

LAURA: I know, okay, Matthew?

LIAM: That is just under average.

MATT: It is now the creature's turn.

LAURA: Great. That's not a good thing.

MATT: Five, ten, 15, 20, 25, 30, 35. It comes
rushing up to you, swings one of its fists towards

you. It comes back as a fist and the claws open
right as it comes in your direction. First attack,

that is a 24 to hit.

LAURA: That hits me.

MATT: All righty, you suffer from the first claw
strike 17 points of slashing damage. As soon as

that claw strike comes by, it brings its second
claw upward in an uppercut arc. That is going to

be a natural 20.

TRAVIS: Ooh!

ASHLEY: Come on!

MATT: That is 28 points of slashing damage, and
then it's going to attempt to bite you. You watch

now this snub crocodile-like jaw unhinges and
opens up with these natural spiked teeth on the

top and bottom sides. It's going to reach out
towards you. That is a 15.

LAURA: That doesn't hit me.

MATT: It goes to bite towards you, and after the
first strikes hit you, you duck out of the way and

you hear him snatch together over top, making a
horrible clenching noise, but you are not in the

jaws when they close. As you look up as you duck
down, it pulls back and (snorts) in a "what have

you got?"-type expression. What are you doing?

LAURA: Okay, I'm going to pop Trinket out.

MATT: Okay, where?

LAURA: Behind him.

MATT: You watch this tiny arc of black energy arc
over and you swear you see two of the eyes, even

though there is no visible iris, follow the
immediate motion as the rest stay focused on you,

and then Trinket appears behind it. (roars)

LAURA: I'm going to disengage.

MATT: Okay, as your bonus.

LAURA: And bamf up into the sky on my broom.

MATT: All righty. How high up are you going? Full
movement?

LAURA: What is that, 30?

MATT: That is 30, yes.

LAURA: Yeah, but I want to get up to a tree that's
far away from him. I don't want to hang out on the

broom, I just want to be high enough that he can't
jump up to me right away. You know what I mean?

MATT: Yep, so you are right up there.

LAURA: Okay, and then I want to brace myself in a
tree, so if I fell off the broom I wouldn't fall

onto the ground.

MATT: So full movement would be about 20 feet up
and ten feet back?

LAURA: Yeah, sure.

MATT: Okay, so you would be about there, and you
would be a little bit lower. We'll say for the

purposes of this, because that direction does
matter. All right, so you're back over here. Got

it. Right up against this tree. That's your bonus
action, that's your movement, what else are you

doing?

LAURA: Yes. He can jump really far, I know.

LIAM: Up. Go up.

LAURA: I'm going to shoot him.

MATT: Okay.

LAURA: Twice. But through my Blazing Bowstring.

MATT: Okay.

LAURA: Okay, 25 for the first.

MATT: That hits.

LAURA: Awesome! That's five plus eight is 13, plus
four for Hunter's Mark, plus three for Sneak

Attack, plus four lightning damage.

MATT: (laughs) 24 damage.

LAURA: Plus two for the bracers, so 26 damage. Oh,
wait! Plus the Blazing Bowstring, which is another

seven! That's fire damage.

LIAM: Your Hunter's Mark is in there already?

LAURA: My Hunter's Mark is in there. And then I'm
going to try to do it again. I'm going to try to

do the same thing again. That's fucking cocked.
28.

MATT: 28 does hit.

LAURA: 18 for the arrow, plus three lightning
damage, plus six for the Hunter's Mark, and I

don't get another Sneak Attack.

MATT: No, just once per round.

LAURA: And the Blazing Bowstring is another
seven.

SAM: 67 total damage.

LAURA: That's not fucking bad.

MATT: No, that's not bad at all.

LIAM: I'm sure the thing is on the verge of
death.

MATT: So that ends your turn? You've used all your
actions.

LAURA: All I'm going to do is go, you know, you
seem like a nice guy. I hate to kill you.

(laughter)

SAM: "I don't speak English."

MATT: The creature glances over at Trinket behind,
looks up at you in the tree and in a creepily

humanoid way, wipes the edge of its jaw and then
leaps off this tree.

LAURA: Trinket gets a swipe at him.

MATT: Yes, he does. And then it leaps in your
direction in the sky. (impact, roar) Arms out, jaw

open. Make the attack for Trinket.

LAURA: I think he likes me, y'all. What is it, a
bite attack or a claw attack? Does it matter?

MATT: Whichever one you want.

LAURA: A bite attack, then. That is 12 plus nine.
21.

MATT: That hits! Go ahead and roll damage for
Trinket.

LAURA: Where's my d6?

TRAVIS: That yellow one.

LAURA: Nine.

MATT: Nine points of damage for Trinket. Nice. It
leaps into the air, arms out, jaw open towards

you. It's going to make a bite attack towards you.
That is a 23 to hit.

LAURA: That hits me, motherfucker.

MATT: All righty. You suffer 19 points of piercing
damage, and I need you to make an athletics or

acrobatics check.

LAURA: That's great. That is a 34.

MATT: 34. The jaw attempts to pull you from the
broom. The strength of its grasp on you is

extremely heavy. You sense that this is a grapple
rend technique that it has. However, you manage to

squeeze out of its teeth and elbow it as you push
it off with your foot, releasing the grasp. You

are not grappled by the creature. However, on its
way down, it's going to swing out with its claws as

you push it off. That's a natural one. Two natural
ones in a row!

(cheering)

LAURA: And he falls to the ground and he hurts
himself.

ASHLEY: And dies.

MATT: He definitely plummets.

SAM: Oh god, a tree falls.

MATT: We'll say, for the purposes of this, sure.
As he lands under the tree, the tree slams down,

and as he hits the ground and slams, you can see
the dirt has been displaced from impact. This

creature is extremely heavy and dense, now seeing
it right in front of your face, to the point where

its tumbling impact pushed a tree over in the
middle of the forest. That's the end of its turn.

You're up.

LAURA: Okay.

TRAVIS: Two ones in a row.

MATT: Two ones in a fucking row!

TRAVIS: No dice jail for that one?

MATT: No, this is my go-to die. This is the
fan-given die. I use this for everything.

LAURA: I'm going to do something. This is all
fucking concentration, so I can't do shit. I'm

going to go up higher.

MATT: Okay.

LAURA: I'm going to hope that I'm going out of his
range.

MATT: You're going full up?

LAURA: Yeah.

MATT: All right, we'll say you're going 30 feet up
from where you were. You're up in this direction

there.

LAURA: Okay, and I'm going to shoot him. (laughs)
I'm going to shoot him twice! 19?

MATT: 19 does hit, yes.

LAURA: Yes! Okay, that's 16 plus two lightning
damage, plus one for Hunter's Mark. But I do get

Sneak Attack because Trinket's next to him, right?
Well, I run Trinket up to him. How about that? I

run Trinket up to him. So a six for the Sneak
Attack.

MATT: Six damage for Sneak Attack. Got it.

LAURA: Is he prone?

MATT: Nope.

LAURA: I'm going to, for my bonus action, have
Trinket attack him with a bite attack before I

send off my second arrow.

MATT: Go for it. I need you to roll a
concentration check, by the way, for your Hunter's

Mark. Because you took damage for each of those
hits. You've got to remember that.

LAURA: Oh. A 20?

MATT: So just roll a constitution saving throw.

LAURA: 12.

MATT: 12? It would have been-- That's fine for the
first one. Roll again.

LAURA: That's not 12.

MATT: What's that one?

LAURA: That's lower, that's four.

MATT: Four? Yeah, so Hunter's Mark-- Actually,
that last Hunter's Mark would not have hit.

LAURA: That's okay, it was just one anyway.

MATT: Don't forget to remember that. My fault.

LAURA: Okay. I don't do that very often.

MATT: I know, it's okay.

LAURA: Trinket's attack was 24.

MATT: 24 hits.

LAURA: Okay. So that's 12 for him.

MATT: Okay, nice.

LAURA: And then I'm going to do my second attack.

MATT: All righty.

LAURA: And that is 20-something, which hits.

MATT: That hits, yeah.

LAURA: Okay, okay, okay! I hope he can't get up
this high! Ten, 11, 12! Plus four lightning

damage!

MATT: Nice.

LAURA: And no Sneak Attack.

MATT: Nope. So as the arrows (whoosh), they're
sinking into the hide. The hide is very thick, but

you can see the dark trails of blood just slowly
dripping from each of these wounds where the

arrows plug the hole, but they're all sticking and
they're all staying in. You just see now this

pincushion of a chest as each arrow stays,
protruding from the front of this creature, its

thick gray hide, yellow eyes still glaring at you.
You can see as it looks around, it's glancing in

the vicinity for what it can do. Ending your
turn?

LAURA: I say, so I mean, what are you doing out
here? I mean, do you work for Pelor? Is this,

like, a thing you do all the time?

SAM: (whispers) Ask her name!

(laughter)

LAURA: What's your sign?

MATT: As you're saying this, you watch the
creature. Trinket's hassling it from the back, it

pushes off, looks over, grabs the tree that just
fell and picks it up and throws it in your

direction. Which, it makes a strength check to do
so. That is a 21 to hit.

MARISHA: Oh no!

LIAM: Oh, son of a Gern!

LAURA: It hits.

MATT: Okay.

TRAVIS: You went up higher!

LAURA: I know, I'm going to die, I'm going to fall
and die if I get knocked off this fucking broom.

MARISHA: You're like those Weather Fail videos,
you got hit by a tree!

LIAM: (sings) My sister in the woods--

MATT: Okay, you take 17 points of bludgeoning
damage. As the tree strikes you--

SAM: Nightmare on Elm Street.

LIAM: You're okay.

TRAVIS: Ooh.

MATT: I need you to go ahead and-- let's see--

LAURA: I should have had a Feast or something
before. I should have talked to you, and had you

inspire me. Yeah, I should've thought about those
things. I was really excited about going and

hunting things.

MATT: Yeah, well, now you know. So as the tree
impacts you, it's threatening to knock you off the

broom. Even though it'll remain attached to you,
it's a tumble. I need you to go ahead and-- Oh

man, this'll be an interesting DC. Make a strength
check to hold yourself on the broom.

LAURA: Strength check?

MATT: Yeah, this is to see if from the impact you
can still hold on to the broom or be knocked from

it. Or a strength saving throw, is what it would
be.

LIAM: Natural 20. Roll now. Do it right now.
That's not a 20.

LAURA: That's not a 20, that's a ten.

MATT: That's a ten. You are thrown from the broom
from the impact, and immediately tumble--

LAURA: To the tree!

MATT: -- the tree that fell.

LAURA: To another tree! Because it hit me and it
kind of changed the trajectory.

MATT: Okay, so you hit a series of branches on the
way down.

LAURA: Trinket sees it happening and he runs over
and he saves me and everything's fine and I am

still the Grand Mistress.

MATT: So as you plummet, the broom, as you're not
on it to gun it, it goes limp, and you just tumble

as it's currently dangling from the chain that's
attached to you.

LAURA: Can I grab it as I'm falling?

MATT: Unfortunately, no.

LIAM: Character development!

MATT: You land prone on the ground and suffer 15
points of bludgeoning damage.

TALIESIN: Okay, okay.

LIAM: You gotta potion? Fucking down a potion,
man! Do it!

MARISHA: She can heal herself on a good day.

SAM: She better now!

MATT: It takes a step forward. Trinket does get an
attack of opportunity.

LAURA: It gets to attack again even though it
threw something?

MATT: No, it just moves up to you.

LAURA: Jesus.

MATT: It's now looming over you, threatening. That
was its full action, was throwing the tree.

LAURA: Trinket got a natural 20!

(cheering)

LAURA: Oh my god, and you know
what I just remembered? It doesn't matter, he gets

a crit on 19s before and he got a 19.

MATT: Well, now you know.

LIAM: Triple the dice.

LAURA: Okay, so that's a bite attack. Triple the
dice?

MATT: No, he's just fucking with you.

LAURA: Damn it, I was real excited.

LIAM: It's really quadruple.

LAURA: 16. Ooh.

MATT: 16, nice.

MARISHA: But that doubled?

LAURA: Yeah, that's doubled.

MARISHA: Oh, that was doubled? Okay.

LAURA: He's biting! It's a bite!

MATT: Look, it's awesome!

LAURA: He's a bear!

MATT: So he lashes out and gets a big chunk, you
see Trinket goes (roars) and steps up and is now

looming over you.

LAURA: Thanks, buddy!

MATT: Now in the darkness, as you look up from the
impact, your eyes open, and all you see is this

outline, the moonlight hitting the back of this
creature, giving the shape, the white line of its

giant shoulders and muscular chest and the six
glowing eyes staring down at you as it looms.

(grunts) Your turn.

LAURA: I say, why are we doing this? Why are we
even fighting? Is this a thing? Is this a thing?

Should we talk about this?

MATT: Are you trying to talk to it?

LAURA: Yeah!

MATT: What are you--

LAURA: No, would I use my whole turn to try to
talk to him as I disengage,

can I try to stand up--

MATT: If you're making quips, that's fine, but if
you're trying to actually converse with and get

through to a creature, that'll be your action.

LAURA: Oh, fuckballs.

MARISHA: Are you Peter Parkering?

LAURA: That's a bad idea.

MATT: What are you doing, Vex'ahlia? Your choice.

LAURA: I roll out of the way of him, right? 'Cause
he's looming over me, is he within--

MATT: He is looming over you. You are prone on the
ground next to him. So you can--

LAURA: Can I disengage out of this?

MATT: So you disengage as a bonus action, and you
can move three squares away.

LAURA: Great, cool!

MATT: So you get up, there you go.

LAURA: How the fuck? What the fuck am I going to
do?

TRAVIS: Kobayashi Maru, you got this.

MATT: You have your action, still. What do you
do?

LAURA: I'm going to-- I mean-- I already used a
bonus action to disengage, so I can't take a

healing potion.

MATT: Correct.

LIAM: You got your broom still, or is the broom--

LAURA: The broom is attached, it's dragging behind
me.

MATT: It's dragging behind her by the ankle, 
it's like (shuffling noise).

LIAM: Action plus movement, you can double
movement away, up in the air. Away from this

motherfucker.

SAM: Or you can use your action to heal.

LAURA: Yeah, but then he'll just attack me again!

LIAM: How high can you go?

LAURA: I'm going to shoot him.

MATT: Okay.

LAURA: I'm going to commit.

MATT: Okay.

LAURA: I'm going to shoot him twice as I'm staring
at him.

MATT: Okay.

LAURA: Say this is-- This is not the kind of Hunt
that I am used to! And I try to shoot him.

SAM: Can you do anything to knock him prone or
anything?

LAURA: I mean, I guess I don't have any kind of
concentration up anymore because I got fucking

destroyed.

MATT: Correct.

LIAM: You have destroyed dragons, tree men,
hearts...

LAURA: These are all bonus, though. Really, I
can't do shit. I kind of suck.

SAM: Fenthras? Can't Fenthras do something?

LAURA: Fenthras can do Bramble Shot, which I
already did. 17?

MATT: 17 just barely hits.

ALL: Ooh!

LAURA: Misses or hits?

MATT: Hits.

LAURA: Okay. 11, 12. 12 plus one lightning damage.
Trinket ran up as I was saying that! Plus two

Sneak Attack.

MATT: Okay.

LAURA: Trinket's going to run up and take his
swipe while I'm doing this.

MATT: Go for it.

LAURA: Oh wait, no, I used my bonus action to
disengage. Trinket can't do that.

MATT: Correct, yeah. So you only get your two
attacks.

LAURA: Great, okay. 29.

MATT: 29 hits.

LAURA: This is bad, this is bad, this is bad,
guys. This is super bad. 14, 15, 16, oh, that

doesn't count, 16, plus two lightning damage.

MATT: So 18? 18 points of damage. All right. You
watch as all these arrows (whoosh) sink into his

body, its abdomen, its knee, one of the knees kind
of buckles a little bit, it's like (grunts) you

can see now it's visibly hurt, it's bleeding from
a lot of places and as it stands back up, its knee

shakes from the impact, and as its knee locks into
place the arrow that you just shot snaps from the

hide clicking together.

LAURA: I'm just going to put my arms down and
stare at him.

MATT: And you stare at it as it just looms towards
you, and as it gets, stepping up to you now, your

standing position, it's a good four feet taller
than you. Trinket gets another attack of

opportunity as it moves towards you, not even
focusing on your companion.

SAM: Double crit!

LAURA: 16.

MATT: 16 just misses. Trinket swipes and hits the
back but just skids off the hide leaving these

scratch marks but no real damage.

LAURA: Fuck.

MATT: As it looms forward, it's going to go ahead
and take its multi-attack on you. It just looks at

you and it goes (cracks) and you hear its knuckles
crack, these thick (cracks) as it brings its fists

into giant angry punches and swings the first claw
towards you. That is a four plus nine, 13. Misses

you. Cocked. That is an eight plus nine, that is
17.

LAURA: Doesn't hit!

TALIESIN: Oh god.

MATT: The bite attack, that is 27.

LAURA: That definitely hits. Dodge, dodge, dodge,
ugh!

SAM: I can't watch, I can't watch.

LIAM: You have Uncanny Dodge yet?

LAURA: I don't have Uncanny Dodge yet, that's
level five or seven or something.

MATT: 14 points of piercing damage.

SAM: (yells) Oh!

LAURA: I'm alive, I'm alive, I'm alive.

SAM: Wait, is that true?

LIAM: Yeah, she's alive.

MATT: I need you to make another athletics or
acrobatics check, as its jaws are now clamping

onto you, attempting to grapple you.

LAURA: Oh, it's trying to grapple me? 18.

SAM: Oh, okay, okay.

MATT: 18? 14, yeah.

(cheering)

MATT: Fucking this guy cannot roll for shit when
it counts-- okay.

LAURA: It's okay, neither can I!

MATT: There you go! So the jaws clamp on you, and
you just muscle and squeeze out. You can feel the

teeth tear against your flesh between the bits of
your leather armor. As you pull away, the armor

snaps open on its hinges and you now have your
bloodied shoulder exposed in the moonlight right

now in the canopy. As it's there, you're heaving,
it's kind of heaving, staring you down. What are

you going to do? It's your turn.

LAURA: I'm going to have Trinket run up and I'm
going to, fuckin' A, have to disengage, and run

the fuck away, 'cause that's all I can do. I'm
going to disengage and run as far towards that

tree circle as I can.

MATT: As you move, with disengage, you can go
around.

LAURA: Okay.

MATT: That's where you can get, right there.

LAURA: Yeah. So I want Trinket in front of me, and
then I'm going to take two more shots at him.

MATT: Okay, go for it.

LIAM: This is it, this is it, do or die.

LAURA: I know, I'm going to die if I don't do
this! Okay, that hits, that hits, that's 28.

MATT: Okay, go ahead and roll damage.

LAURA: Okay, okay. 12, 13, 14... 14, 15, 16, two
for lightning damage, and then six for the Sneak

Attack.

MATT: All right, nice, nice.

How do you want to do this?

(cheering)

MATT: So the creature is wounded, it's breathing
heavy, it's standing there, and as you rush past,

it turns around and stands tall again, looking
back at you. As you have the arrow in your sights

and you release it, the arrow is-- What do you
want to do?

LAURA: I don't want it to be fatal.

MATT: Oh, okay. So what are you doing with the
arrow, then?

LIAM: Hit 'em with the feather end?

LAURA: Just the feather end.

(laughter)

TALIESIN: Tickle, tickle, tickle.

ASHLEY: Boop! Boop him on the nose.

LAURA: I want to get him in the shoulder, up
here.

MATT: Okay. So the arrow (whizz) as you release
it, it hits right below where a clavicle would be

and it sinks in deep. It goes in probably a good
five, six-- Deeper than any other arrow that

you've hit it with has done. And it sinks, and you
can see it stops with the feathers at the chest,

and it gives out a (retches) and falls back to its
one knee that it was on, falls onto its second

knee, and its arms lean forward, barely keeping
itself up, like a gorilla.

It's just (heavy breathing).

LAURA: Trinket is standing right in front of him,
eyeing him down. And I say, you're a noble

creature, sent here for a reason. Yes?

MATT: There's very little response, it's just
standing there looking at you. You can see the

eyes are focused on you even through the slight
glimmers of yellow, even though some of them are

lulling and blinking. Its muscles are tensing and
relaxing as it's just taking all of its strength

to stay partially standing at this moment, but
it's listening.

LAURA: You can leave. You can go back to where you
came from. I protect this forest now. This is

mine.

MATT: Make just a straight charisma roll. Just
adding your charisma modifier.

LAURA: I'm scared of all of my dice right now! Oh
god.

SAM: Use Liam's!

LAURA: I know, right? Straight charisma. Seven?

MATT: Seven?

LAURA: I know, right? It's not a saving throw,
it's just a check.

MATT: It's just a check, yeah.

LAURA: I'm going to throw up.

MATT: It stands up. It almost falls again on its
knee, grasps, and puts its arm over where the last

arrow went in. It turns around, and leaps back
into the forest.

LAURA: It can leap? No! It leaves? I take the
final arrow before it gets away.

MATT: Okay, go ahead and fire.

LAURA: 18.

MATT: That hits. Go ahead and roll damage.

LAURA: I'm going to throw up. Sorry this is so
late, guys. 15, 16, 17, plus two lightning

damage.

MATT: As it leaps in the air, you barely see the
shadow disappearing into the canopy. You take your

final arrow and let loose.

How do you want to do this?

LAURA: Just right between the shoulder blades.

MATT: It hits. You think it hit. You don't hear
anything. Quiet. And then the heaviest

boulder-like impact of its body onto the forest
ground, skidding into the mud, hitting another

tree. That tree falls on top, and you have to
dodge onto the side to make sure that nothing else

falls in the area. And then stillness and calm and
quiet hits, and the cold finally comes in. As the

blood is pumping and the adrenaline's hitting you,
you felt so warm and you're sweating, and at that

point as you're breathing in heavily, you can feel
the biting cold of the air hitting your lungs, and

at that point the adrenaline begins to subside,
and you notice your breath is showing up and it is

a very cold low mist night now emerging within the
forest.

LAURA: I walk up and I scratch Trinket on the
head. You did real good there, bud.

MATT: (bear noises)

LAURA: We're not dead! And I cast Cure Wounds on
myself.

MATT: All right.

LAURA: And then I walk over and try to find a
fucking trophy on this guy.

MATT: Okay. You walk over and you find, indeed,
the creature is laid out. It is dead. It is cold.

The arrow sticking out of the back, the final
blow, seems to have hit a very core nerve center

of its back. So carve whatever trophy you wish
from its body.

LAURA: I'm just going to cut his hand off. I'm
going to cut his hand off, no biggie.

MATT: Okay. So you eventually pull out a small
dagger and hack the hand off. It takes you a

little while but you do manage to get it. The hand
alone probably weighs almost as much as you do.

LAURA: Jeez! This was maybe the wrong sort of
trophy to grab, okay!

MATT: Trinket walks over and takes it up in his
jaws.

LAURA: Wow. You're really strong, did you know
that? And I guess I'm going to-- You don't have to

carry it just yet, 'cause I want to set fire to
the body and burn it. I'm going to use some of the

branches from the trees he fucking knocked over to
set a fire around.

MATT: You do notice that, because this area is
very thickly wooded, setting a fire in the middle

of the Parchwood Forest, probably not a good
idea.

LAURA: Well, I'm going to do it in that opening
right there. Look at that. I guess I can't,

because--

MATT: You try and tug the creature, and even with
Trinket's help, this thing weighs two tons.

LAURA: I feel like, as a hunter, I would know how
to set a fire to something without setting fucking

fire to the trees. I'm good at campfires.

MATT: Make a wisdom survival check. No advantage
on this one. You would have disadvantage, so it's

negated.

SAM: But this is her favored terrain!

LAURA: Yo! This is survival?

MATT: Survival.

LAURA: 18.

MATT: 18. It takes you the better part of the evening,
but you manage to set a very localized flame

around this, making sure you have very, very damp
moss and bits of wet mud caked around to make sure

the flame doesn't spread. Eventually the body does
begin to burn, and by the time you finish and you

feel successful, you notice the faint glimmer of
morning sun beginning to crest over the mountain.

LAURA: I bet everyone thinks we're dead. Hey,
Pelor. Pelor? I don't know if I'm saying your name

wrong. Thanks for that, and I'll be here next time
you send something my way.

MATT: So, bruised, beaten, you and Trinket find
your way back to Whitestone. You stumble up just

as everyone's coming everyone's coming to
consciousness. The worrying has kept you up, and

you've been--

TALIESIN: I've known, the necklace hasn't gone.

MATT: No. Eventually, as you guys are getting
breakfast and discussing if anyone had seen you,

you watch as Vex'ahlia stumbles in, bloodied,
bruised, filthy, and Trinket stumbles in beneath

and just chucks this giant gray severed hand of a
creature (thuds) onto the ground.

SAM: And she's great with money, and-- Oh look,
she's back!

MARISHA: Oh! You look awesome! I mean, you look
like shit, but you look awesome!

LAURA: Who has a mimosa?

ASHLEY: We-- all-- here. You look great! That
thing looks so heavy!

MATT: The staff scatters to make you mimosas.

LAURA: It's so heavy, I couldn't pick it up!
Trinket had to carry it.

TRAVIS: What did that belong to?

LAURA: It was this big weird rhino-y thing with
six eyes. I tried to talk to him, but he just

didn't want to listen, and I swear, he almost
fucking killed me. I didn't want him to know--

LIAM: And you handed his ass to him?

LAURA: I mean, yeah. I set fire to him for you,
bud!

TALIESIN: Would I know anything with six eyes? Big
rhino thing with six eyes?

MATT: Sure, you've read around.

TALIESIN: What am I rolling?

MATT: This would be a general intelligence check.

TALIESIN: Just a general intelligence check? 23.

MATT: 23. As soon as she says that, you're like,
this is a gray render.

TALIESIN: You killed a gray render.

LAURA: Wait, I asked you! I asked you before I
left, Do you know of anything that's gray with six

eyes, and you didn't know, and now you know?

MATT: Seeing the hand triggered it.

TALIESIN: There's a surprising number of things
with six eyes, and that's--

(laughter)

TALIESIN: That's-- that's interesting.

MARISHA: Wait.

LAURA: He was really, really tough to kill, you
guys. If we had been there together, no problem,

insta-death.

MATT: What you know of grey renders is, they are
asexual creatures that reproduce only one,

asexually, per generation. They are territorial
and very protective of their young, and generally

sometimes bind themselves as a protector of a
certain territory, and given certain

circumstances, can choose either an individual or
a space to protect as well. But that can depend on

circumstances, otherwise they can be a dangerous
force of nature.

LAURA: Wait, does that mean it was a good guy? Did
I kill a good thing?

TALIESIN: That means it was natural, it didn't
have a good or bad aspect to it.

LAURA: Does that mean it's got a baby somewhere in
the woods and I just didn't know about it?

TALIESIN: Maybe, maybe not. That means that you
were sent, and that you did what you thought was

right. This thing could have been a terrible
danger.

LAURA: Well, yeah.

TRAVIS: Don't second-guess yourself! You're alive!
You did good!

LAURA: No, yeah. Yeah.

MARISHA: Plus, it's kind of cool that you killed
something called a gray render to become Lady of

the Grey Hunt.

LAURA: -- of the Grey Hunt, totally. Hey, that
makes sense.

TALIESIN: Yes, that is a thing.

TRAVIS: And you did it by yourself.

LAURA: Yeah. Imma throw up. No, I'm okay. No I'm
going to throw up. No, I'm good. I'm just going to

drink my mimosa.

LIAM: Just keep going.

LAURA: Okay. I need sleep. It's been a while. I'm
going to go lay down. I love you guys.

ASHLEY: I love you.

LAURA: I'm so glad you're here, Pike!

ASHLEY: Me too.

SAM: Good night.

MARISHA: You did it!

LIAM: I'm going to take my sister to bed.

LAURA: Thank you.

TALIESIN: I'm very proud of you.

SAM: We've all learned things from single moms
today.

(laughter)

TALIESIN: Way to bring it all back.

TRAVIS: Oh my god. Can I have that?

LAURA: I feel really-- can you--

TALIESIN: Is there a-- Do they do something with
this trophy, or is that--

MATT: It is the property of whoever succeeds at
the Grey Hunt, it is their trophy to mount, to

utilize or discard as they please.

TRAVIS: I just want to go over and fold all the
fingers back except the middle one.

(laughter)

MARISHA: Can Grog lift it okay, I guess? He's
probably the only one.

MATT: Yeah, you can lift it fine. You have a 26
strength, you're like--

TRAVIS: A message from beyond!

(laughter)

MATT: As you're walking downstairs, Cassandra,
who's awake and in her nightwear, groggily steps

down the stairs and sees you. "Oh, um, how's it
gone?"

LAURA: It went great, no problems at all. Totally
took care of the problem in the woods, and you are

safe, and so is all of Whitestone.

MATT: "So it's a success?"

LAURA: Yes, great, grand success, by a mile, just
totally a success.

LIAM: A little woozy, but she did her thing.

MATT: Even amongst your messy self, she leans in
and gives you a soft hug and holds you for a

second and pulls away. And she's shorter than you.
For a half-elf, you're average size, but she is

pretty short for a human, especially for the
amount of personality she wields. But she looks up

at you and says--

LAURA: (laughs) The amount of personality she
wields, is what you just did!

MATT: Emanating! Emanating! From her! Huge tracts
of land. That's not what I meant! Jeez!

(laughter)

MATT: You guys, I swear to god.

LIAM: We are children!

TRAVIS: Yup.

MATT: She looks up at you and says,
"Congratulations. Welcome to the chamber."

LAURA: Oh, thank you!

MATT: "Our Mistress of the Grey Hunt."

LAURA: Glad to be here.

MATT: She pats your cheek. "Anyway, I'm going to
get some breakfast. And--" she looks down and

notices the somewhat congealed blood that's now
spattered across parts of her.

LAURA: (whispers) Sorry about that!

MATT: "I'm going to go put on another dress.
Anyway, welcome."

LAURA: Thank you.

MATT: "And I'm glad." She walks back up to her
chamber to change outfit. You guys continue on to

see Vex to sleep.

LIAM: Yeah, let's get you into bed, yeah? Get some
sleep.

LAURA: It's so funny, I had this vision when he
said Grey Hunt, I was going to charge in and be so

amazing and maybe wear a top hat as I was doing
it, you know, just to be really badass.

LIAM: A top hat?

LAURA: Yeah, you know, something very hunt-y, a
sort of thing--

LIAM: Yeah, I can picture it.

LAURA: And then it just fell a-fucking-part! I
mean, no, I killed it, don't worry, but then as I

was doing it, I was like, Maybe I shouldn't be
killing it? I don't know what I'm supposed to do.

And then I tried to talk to it, and it just didn't
sound like it was listening to me, and then it

went away, and it might have been going away,
'cause I asked it to go away?

LIAM: I'm opening the door to her room and leading
her in.

LAURA: I mean, how many more times am I going to
have to fucking do that? Hopefully not a lot,

right?

LIAM: Maybe not ever again, that's what it sounded
like.

LAURA: Right.

LIAM: Could be years.

LAURA: Could be years.

LIAM: Come on, let's get you undone. I start
undoing the braid.

MATT: You start undoing her braid, helping her. As
you do, she's falling asleep while standing.

Fenthras just drops to the ground.

LAURA: Sinaeth.

LIAM: Come on, in bed, in bed, in bed. Don't fall
asleep yet, though.

LAURA: I'm listening.

LIAM: Are you?

LAURA: Yes.

LIAM: If you--

LAURA: You look like Mother right now. You do.
Keep going. I'm not sleeping,

I'm just closing my eyes.

LIAM: Fuck, I love you.

LAURA: I love you.

LIAM: So you did it, you did the thing.

LAURA: Yeah!

LIAM: Yeah. You've carved out a little spot for
yourself here, for now.

LAURA: Oh, well, yeah, I guess so.

LIAM: This is the second half of that
conversation. We have nothing left to do in the

short term.

LAURA: Right.

LIAM: And you love Percival. And Percival loves
you.

LAURA: So much, like, he's just so in love.

LIAM: No duh, no duh.

LAURA: Obviously.

LIAM: And I love Keyleth.

LAURA: Mm-hm.

LIAM: And Kiki loves me.

LAURA: Just so much.

LIAM: I don't know.

LAURA: So much.

LIAM: I don't want to set a time on it, but--

LAURA: You're leaving?

LIAM: You are going to stay here for a while. Yes,
and you're welcome to come with me, but I don't

think you want to go.

LAURA: No.

LIAM: You know, I had hoped we'd have the Gate
Stone for this moment, but--

LAURA: Wait, are you fucking leaving now?

LIAM: No, no, no, no!

LAURA: I sit up.

LIAM: No, no, don't jump ahead of yourself. I just
meant, we have work to do. I'm going to go to

Zephra, and you're going to be nobility?

LAURA: I don't fucking know.

LIAM: That's funny.

LAURA: How stupid is that?

LIAM: Just a little bit. But you wear it really
well. Really well. You're classier than I am.

LAURA: Thanks, you know, I'm going to get some
dresses made, it's no big deal. Imma be so

classy.

LIAM: Yeah. I'm going to go, you're going to stay
here. But now we have some homework to do.

LAURA: About what? About--

LIAM: Gods.

LAURA: Ugh, yeah.

LIAM: Yeah. Keyleth can get us anywhere when we
need.

LAURA: Yeah, she's super, super badass.

LIAM: Yeah, but you and I need to-- Well, we need
to enjoy ourselves, you need to enjoy yourself,

but we also need to meet up and do a little
research, because-- Calm down, you made the offer,

not me.

LAURA: I know, I know! I'm an idiot!

LIAM: So am I.

LAURA: (laughs) This is so stupid!

LIAM: But we need to spend a little--

LAURA: Why are we making plans for it? I mean, I'm
so excited about it.

LIAM: We're making plans for it because she is not
done.

LAURA: I know!

LIAM: You don't know.

LAURA: No, I do!

LIAM: She spoke to me, Vex. Vex'ahlia.

LAURA: Okay.

LIAM: And we're all, all of them are tied up in
this, and we need to have some idea of what we're

doing, because whatever just happened is just a
test run in her eyes.

LAURA: Oh, you mean, hell? I know! No, all of it,
right? The dragons, everything, I know what you're

talking about.

LIAM: Yeah.

LAURA: I know! The thing is, what are we going to
do? We don't know when she's going to cash in on

this!

LIAM: No, no, it could be a decade from now. Yes.

LAURA: Exactly! So what are you going to do? Live
a decade going, the Raven Queen's expecting

something, or are you going to live a decade
going, well here's my fuck-all life,

I'm enjoying it?

LIAM: Both of those things.

LAURA: Okay! Good!

LIAM: I want to enjoy myself, but just in case
it's sooner rather than later, you and I need to

do a little bit of homework, which you were very
good at in school.

LAURA: I'm awesome at homework and killing giant
gray things. I can't remember its name anymore.

TRAVIS: (whispers) Render.

LAURA: Renders.

LIAM: I'm going to Zephra.

LAURA: When? Why do you keep saying it?

LIAM: Eventually. Eventually. Because it hurts,
because I love you, because you are-- Stop, stop

laughing for a minute. You are my best friend. You
are my twinnie. And only you know

what that means. Hm?

LAURA: Mm-hm.

LIAM: You're always here.

LAURA: Well, good. It's all right if you go, dear.
You'll still be here. I'll still be there. It's

going to suck giant dick.

LIAM: I don't know how to do anything 
without you!

LAURA: Yeah, well, you'll learn. You'll learn.
You're learning already.

LIAM: I'm very proud of you.

LAURA: Are you going to get married? I think you
should. I feel like you're going to do it, I feel

like it's going to happen. I just want to be there
for the wedding. Don't go off in secret and do it,

all right? I would be very pissed. I love you. Let
me sleep.

LIAM: Okay. Do you need to yak before you go?

LAURA: Nah, I'm going to yak in my sleep. I'm
going to lay on my side.

LIAM: That sounds bad! Good night, good night.

LAURA: Good night.

LIAM: See you in the morning.

MATT: As she lays over and almost immediately
passes out on the bed. You give a long gaze as you

step out of the room, Vax. You turn and out of the
corner of your eye you see a very faint movement.

You glance over at the edge of the wall, next to the
door, where you leaned Fenthras against the stone.

You watch as elements of the vines and the curves
and the designs of Fenthras seem to almost grow

and curl even further. The bow seems to have
established a more prominent visual presentation.

LIAM: (whispers) You're going to have a very good
morning. Good night.

MATT: So as Vox Machina completes the final legs
of their recent journeys, they come, for the first

time in a long time, to a period of local and
nationwide peace, with much to pick up, much to

clean, much to rebuild, and much to discover for
themselves, their relationships, and what it means

to each individual. You guys have a few weeks to
contemplate what it is you do together and

individually over the next year. When we return in
about two weeks to Critical Role proper, it's

going to be a little over a year later from this
moment.

LAURA: Holy shit!

TRAVIS: Really?

MATT: Yeah. We're doing-- we're going to be
returning to you guys. We'll talk about this and

we'll get an idea of what you guys want to do.
However, next week, we're still having an episode,

but we'll have the pleasure of Liam O'Brien here
running the next one shot following his last one

at Warner Brothers, in which both me and Marisha
will actually be able to play it.

(cheering)

MATT: So that's going to be fun.

LAURA: We're all going to be here for a one shot!

SAM: Is Conan coming? Is Conan O'Brien--

MATT: Conan O'Brien? Yeah, he seems to be
available, I'm pretty sure, he's not doing much.

We'll get him and Colbert to guest.

LAURA: Oh my gosh!

SAM: Welcome back, Ashley! Now you have to wait a
year to play again.

TRAVIS: One year later, huh?

MATT: Yeah, one year later. So we'll talk and
converse individually and as a group about what

you guys want to accomplish over the next year
without the constant threat of perpetual death.

And we'll see where that takes us in two weeks for
the story of Vox Machina into the final arc of

your story. And return next week for the awesome
one-shot. I'm super excited. I've never been able

to play with most of you guys at all.

TRAVIS: Never?

LAURA: It's exciting!

MATT: It's pretty rad.

TALIESIN: I think, like, Satine ran a game, like a
half a decade ago that we played in together.

MATT: Yeah.

LAURA: You're RPing as yourself! That's what's
weird!

MATT: Yeah!

LIAM: You don't know!

SAM: What if Matt sucks?

MATT: Oh, I'm going to! I'm going to be so bad.

SAM: What if he's awful?

TALIESIN: He is terrible.

MATT: I'm going to be okay in the DM's chair, but
I am the worst player.

TRAVIS: He's like, "What does favored terrain get
me?"

LAURA: Hey, bitch!

LIAM: Not going to lie, I'm a rules lawyer. Bit of
a rules lawyer. So memorize your fucking Player's

Handbooks, you amateurs!

MATT: I apologize in advance. Oh yeah, I probably
should have announced the winner earlier. I feel

really bad. I got caught up in the story.
Ninjajoel75, congratulations!

(cheering)

MATT: I'm sure you already know this and you
probably have known for a couple hours. But,

anyway, congratulations, you won the awesome
package.

ASHLEY: How de dur de dur?

LAURA: How de do dis?

MATT: How do we do-- All right, well, we'll see
you guys next week for Liam's awesome game, and

we'll you see you the week after that for the
continuation of Vox Machina's story a year later.

Until then, rest well, and is it Thursday yet?
Have a good night, guys!

[music]