MATT: Hello, everyone, and welcome to tonight's
episode of Critical Role, where a bunch of us

nerdy-ass voice actors sit around and play
Dungeons and Dragons.

ALL: Dungeons and Dragons!

MATT: Just like that. Durr and Durr.

ASHLEY: How der der der der.

MATT: Indeed. So. Before we jump into the story
for this evening, let's go ahead and get through

our announcements. First and foremost, we have a
fantastic sponsor for tonight's episode. Backblaze

has returned to us. Good friends to the show, and
Sam, you wanted to talk a little bit about this?

SAM: I haven't done this in a while. Little rusty.
But Backblaze. Nervous. Backblaze is such an

important sponsor, I didn't want to just do a
commercial for them, I wanted to do an

infomercial. Maestro?

[infomercial music]

SAM: Hi, everybody, I'm Sam Riegel and welcome to
Late-Night Deals. Guys, online backup systems.

Just the sound of it gives me a headache. It's
always so complicated, expensive, and frustrating.

Am I right? Usually, when you back up your data,
you look like this guy.

TALIESIN: C drive? USB port? HTTP? Forward slash?
Ugh! Speak English! All these wires and cables! I

can't take it anymore!

SAM: But now there's Backblaze, a cloud-based
backup system that's so easy, you'll look like

this gal.

MARISHA: And finished. Using Backblaze makes me
feel so awesome and cool and hip and young and

free and attractive and empowered and invincible.
It's so easy, even a total jackass could use it.

SAM: That's right, Marisha, even a total jackass
can use it, and I'm living proof. Taliesin,

Backblaze backs up photos, documents, fanfic, and
all your user data, and here's the best part. How

much do you think it costs?

TALIESIN: For a system like that? It's got to
cost, what? $200, maybe? $300 a month?

SAM: Nope.

MARISHA: That sounds too low. I'm going to guess
$9,000 a month.

SAM: Nope. Keep guessing.

TALIESIN: $100,000 a month!

SAM: Not even close. If you order now, you'll get
Backblaze for just five dollars a month for

unlimited and unfryable backup.

TALIESIN AND MARISHA: Five dollars? That's
nothing!

TALIESIN: I literally burn five-dollar bills to
stay warm on chilly nights.

MARISHA: Oh, me too. Oh, I'm so convinced. But
Sam, how do I sign up?

SAM: Oh, it's simple, Marish. Go to
backblaze.com/criticalrole and you'll get a

two-week free trial.

TALIESIN: What was that URL again?

SAM: backblaze.com/criticalrole!

MARISHA: One more time.

SAM: backblaze.com/criticalrole!

TALIESIN: One more time.

SAM: backblaze.com/criticalrole! There's no end. I
didn't write an end to the bit. That's it. It's

over. Yay! And scene.

TRAVIS: Wow.

SAM: Thank you, guys.

TALIESIN: I'm caught in wires. There we are.

MATT: Thank you very much, Sam. Also, anyone who
gives Backblaze a try through May will also be

entered to win a contest to win some signed art,
signed by all of us. And if you've already tried

it, you've also already been entered, so don't
worry about that. Anyway, thank you so much,

Backblaze. Go check it out. And thank you. All
righty. Wow. I don't want to follow that up.

Laura, any merch news?

LAURA: Oh, just the same merch news as always.
We've got these amazing Vox Machina t-shirts in

the store.

SAM: Is someone wearing?

LAURA: Yev is wearing it, from Backblaze. But
nobody here is, but they're so soft and they're

amazing. We also have hoodies and hats and patches
and nail wraps and stickers.

MATT: Did you guys want to thank the awesome
Melissa Kelp for her design, by the way?

LAURA: Yes! Who designed Vox Machina, and that was
in our original fan contest that we did. We had

that awesome design that was so cool that we
decided to make that design, as well.

MATT: Thank you, Melissa.

TRAVIS: Thank you, Melissa!

LAURA: (sings) Amazing job!

MATT: All right. Wednesday Club, Taliesin.

TALIESIN: We don't actually have an official theme
yet, but I have a strong sensation that it's

probably going to be something about Riverdale. I
get the vibe that we might be going to Riverdale.

There might be a teenage witch. Maybe a band. I
don't know. We'll see. It's not official yet, but

I'm working on it.

MATT: Elrond of Riverdale. Thank you very much,
Taliesin. Marisha, Signal Boost.

MARISHA: It's Brian Compton from over at Nerdist.
(gasps) You got your Geek and Sundry in my

Nerdist.

TALIESIN: You got your Nerdist in my Geek and
Sundry.

MARISHA: You dick!

TALIESIN: That's so disgusting.

MARISHA: You fucking dick!

SAM: Jesus, this got dark really fast.

MATT: That and more you can look forward to at
MomoCon, as me, Marisha, and Taliesin will be

there in a couple weeks in Atlanta, Georgia. So
we'll see you guys there May 25th to 28th, and I

will be a guest at A-Kon June 8th-11th in Fort
Worth, Texas. For all you folks out there in the

Texas area, come say hi, that'll be fun.

TRAVIS: (muffled) Fort Worth, Texas?

MATT: Yes.

TRAVIS: (muffled) I went to college there!

MATT: You should come to your college.

TRAVIS: (muffled) No, I'm good.

MATT: Okay. And to finish this off. Talks Machina,
of course, we have starting next Tuesday about

this episode, hosted by our fantastic Brian Wayne
Foster. Make sure you submit your fanart and gif

of the week to possibly win some cool prizes.
Those will go to talksmachina@gmail.com. So.

Without further ado, friends, let's go ahead and
dive in to tonight's episode of Critical Role.

[dramatic music]

MATT: Hello, everyone, and welcome back to
Critical Role. So. Picking up where we left off.

After Vox Machina had taken a year of peace and
activity to handle their own respective endeavors,

or communal endeavors, they discovered apparently
some family of Pike Trickfoot coming and knocking

at the door of Whitestone. A reunion with some of
her family she had not seen since she was a child,

coming in to impart her with the knowledge of a
terrible family blood-curse that had been haunting

them for ages and visions that were guided by her
uncle Ogden to the possibility that she carries

the same curse, and wanting to free the bloodline,
or at least Pike of this, they had to amass some

materials and make their way on a moonlit night to
the top of the Alabaster Sierras to complete the

ritual to exorcise this entity and destroy it.
After gathering the materials and traveling to the

top of the Salted Bluffs of the Alabaster Sierras,
the ritual was completed and the large, monstrous

black cloud and skull entity is summoned forth
from Pike's body, and you all leapt in to do

battle. However, partway into this fray, Vex
happened to realize that it was seemingly an

illusion. There was no ritual, there was no blood
curse, and this was a ploy from the family to make

a little cash off you guys. After some threats to
Uncle Ogden and nearly losing him off the edge of

a cliff, you made a deal to offer some money. In
exchange, you took your cousin JB under your wing,

and they were forced to leave and never return.
They accepted and went on their way, and with

that, we begin today's episode. So you guys have
been traveling down the side of the mountain, of

the Alabaster Sierras, returning late-night to the
city of Whitestone. What do you wish to do?

TRAVIS: Kill them all before we change our mind.

(laughter)

LAURA: Oh, can I cast Locate Object and try to
find that diamond that he chucked over the side?

MATT: What's the range on Locate Object?

TRAVIS: Was it a thousand-foot cliff?

TALIESIN: It was far down there.

LIAM: Well, I've probably got about 30 or 40
minutes left on the--

SAM: You could fly down. Some of us own flying
brooms.

LAURA: Yeah, we can fly down on flying brooms.

LIAM: Do that. Yeah? I can go swimming.

LAURA: Shit, I don't have my thing.

LIAM: Your thing?

LAURA: That says what the distance on Locate
Object is.

MATT: The distance is 1,000 feet of you.

LAURA: Okay, so can I get on my broom and cast it
and go try to find it down in the water?

MATT: Sure. It lasts for ten minutes.

LAURA: Okay.

MATT: I'll say, go ahead and make an investigation
check.

LAURA: I'm organizing my dice right now! 19!

MATT: 19. Okay. It takes you the better part of
the next ten minutes or so to even get a blip on

your arcane radar. And you suddenly sense as
you're coasting along the very base of the surf

where the waters crash against the rocks, the tide
has been coming in with the full moon, and you can

see now the water itself is rough and just
smashing into the side of the cliff base. You get

a small glimmer, a small beacon, a draw to you
like a small pulling under the waves. And you

sense about maybe 65 feet down, there it is.

LAURA: 65 feet.

TRAVIS: Under the water.

MATT: Under the water.

TRAVIS: That's three diving tanks for competitive
diving.

LAURA: So probably couldn't do it unless I have
breathing underwater?

LIAM: Or your friend Keyleth.

LAURA: She's up top. Would I remember the spot in
the fucking water if I went up and got her and

brought her back down? Do I have enough time to do
it?

MATT: You could try and remember it and come
back.

SAM: It's 1,000.

LAURA: It's 1,500!

TALIESIN: Are we within earpiece-shot?

MATT: Not with her right now. You'd have to go
back up.

LAURA: Okay. I fly straight up from the spot so I
don't lose it.

MATT: All right. You're pretty much on the cusp of
it. You've been a little flexible on the range of

them, but we'll say you get a little ways up.

LAURA: And I say, Keyleth! Can you swim?

MARISHA: (chuckles) Yes.

LAURA: Can you come help me get this diamond
back?

MARISHA: Oh, yeah! Yeah.

(laughter)

MARISHA: Am I on the cliff?

MATT: You're on top of the cliff, yeah.

MARISHA: Is she down?

MATT: Yeah.

LAURA: I can come-- Oh. Are you really?

MARISHA: Can I do it?

LAURA: That's a really high drop!

MARISHA: Can I do the Pocahontas swan dive?

MATT: Okay, make an athletics check.

MARISHA: I run and cliff dive!

LAURA: Oh Jesus. Oh no.

TALIESIN: (sings) Sail!

MARISHA: (sings) Sail!

(laughter)

LAURA: Oh no.

MARISHA: 11.

MATT: Okay. You get a few feet past the cliff
edge. Not a majestic jump and the cliff is not

completely sheer; it does slightly angle outwards.
So you gently leap off, and as you're falling you

can see you probably have, I'd say about 300 feet
or so before you're going to hit rock.

MARISHA: I'm going to hit rock?

MATT: The cliff is not perfectly vertical. It's a
little bit angled and you're heading down to hit

the rock.

MARISHA: I go, oops! And can I do a Gust against
the cliff wall to push me back a little bit

further?

MATT: Go ahead and make a wisdom check. This is a
straight wisdom modifier check.

MARISHA: Oh, that's good! Just straight wisdom
modifier? 20.

MATT: Okay. Like a gentle fart, you push yourself
a little ways from the cliff. I'll say it does

just enough of a shove where the trajectory
changes slightly. You may or may not be right

where the rock hits the surf. You can test it or
not. It's up to you.

TRAVIS: Test it!

TALIESIN: And this was the end.

LAURA: Kiki, don't kill yourself over this rock!

LIAM: It was nice being in a couple.

MARISHA: At the last minute, I'm going to
(panicked squealing). And turn into a goldfish.

TRAVIS: Before you hit the water?

SAM: Or the rock?

MARISHA: Well, I'm assuming the goldfish would
make it easier to hit water.

LAURA: Yeah, but you're going to hit rock!

SAM: Goldfish are not magnetically attracted to
water. They still just fall.

LAURA: What about flying fish or something, so you
can maybe--

MARISHA: I don't think flying fish actually fly,
though.

LAURA: No, but they got big fins.

TRAVIS: They do glide.

MATT: Regardless, as you turn into a goldfish,
rocketing towards the base of the water...

LAURA and SAM: Oh no.

TRAVIS: He's taking a picture of it!

MATT: No, I'm not. This is too many dice for me to
roll.

(gasping)

ASHLEY: What?

MARISHA: I would just pop back to myself. I
wouldn't die.

MATT: And then any additional damage would go over
into your--

MARISHA: No, I know.

TRAVIS: There's too many dice to roll, Marisha.

MARISHA: No, it's fine! We're gods!

LAURA: Are we? She says as she dies on the rocks.

TRAVIS: Why would you even tempt that shit?

TALIESIN: Why am I drinking your coffee? I'm going
to stop right now.

SAM: Oh boy.

LAURA: Oh no. What is he doing? No. Seriously,
though. What if she just died?

MARISHA: That would be kind of amazing.

MATT: You took 363 points of damage.

MARISHA: You are lying. You are lying! By hitting
rocks?

MATT: By hitting rocks at terminal velocity. It's
1d6 per ten feet falling. Keyleth scatters across

the edge of the rock. And just crumples into the
surf and is now floating.

MARISHA: Wait! What? You are lying!

MATT: No! You just--

SAM: What does that mean? That's below her total
hit points!

TRAVIS: That's instant death.

MATT: No, she's dead. Keyleth is dead and floating
in the water.

SAM: Unrevivable death?

MATT: Probably revivable. You've just got to
retrieve the body.

LAURA and ASHLEY: Oh my god!

SAM: Wait! Vex! I gave you a coin!

LAURA: A Revivify coin!

MARISHA: Wait! I thought you were trying to make
it out like I'd still hit water!

MATT: I said the distance you jumped and then
pushed--

TRAVIS: You jumped from 1,000 feet in the air.
Totally logical! You can't even see the water or

rocks, but you're like, yep! I've got this,
bitch!

LIAM: I am having the best conversation with JB
right now.

MARISHA: This is the best thing that's ever
happened!

LAURA: Wait, but here's the thing, do I have to
roll if I use the coin?

MATT: And now, officially, every member of Vox
Machina has died. Most in battle, or some danger.

TRAVIS: That took care of it!

SAM: You broke the seal!

MARISHA: Wait! Was I supposed to turn into a
flying creature? And be safe from this?

MATT: That's up to you! That's literally your
choice!

LIAM: Okay. I am starting to sweat! Who sees it? I
don't see it!

MATT: The only person that sees it is Vex. Vex,
you watch as Keyleth-- (jump, poof, splat). It's a

scatter of red mess. And you see her floating in
the water.

ASHLEY: It's only 7:15!

MATT: I know! This was not in my plan!

ASHLEY: Okay. Go get her!

LAURA: I go fly down there! Is she a body, at
least?

SAM: Because she hit as the goldfish!

MATT: Yes, and the goldfish which has a hit
point.

SAM and MARISHA: Yeah.

MATT: Which then made the other 324 hit points go
over to Marisha.

SAM: Sure.

TRAVIS: So the goldfish turned into orange
marmalade?

LIAM: It was like a magic trick! It was like a
fish turned into a corpse!

LAURA: Can I use my coin that Tary gave me? My
coin of Revivify on her?

MATT: Because you gave it to her before the
battle, right? Yes, you can.

LAURA: Okay. I do that. Don't touch my dice in
anger!

LIAM: I'm not angry!

LAURA: I don't know. How do I do it?

MATT: Go ahead and roll a straight wisdom check.

LAURA: A wisdom check?

MATT: Yes.

LAURA: (yells) I'm so nervous!

ASHLEY: Stop laughing, Travis! Stop it!

LAURA: Okay.

TRAVIS: I mean, you can't feel bad about it.

MARISHA: I thought I was going to hit water and it
would be cool!

LAURA: 18.

MATT: 18. Okay. As you go down and pull her out of
the water, her soaked red hair covers her face,

and that's probably a good thing. As you're a
little scared to see--

TRAVIS: It's like a red-haired The Ring.

MATT: And with that, you instinctively begin to
seize up, and you sob, and then you realize: the

coin! And you fumble for it in your pocket, and
you hear the waves crashing below you. And you

pull it out and you hold it in your palm. And you
feel it glowing, warm in your hand as you press it

against the back of Keyleth's broken body. And you
watch as the warmth passes from the coin through

her back. And as it does, you watch as her broken
limbs all snap back into place.

(laughter/gagging)

MATT: And she begins to breathe again.

(laughter)

LIAM: What the shit is this show?

MATT: I don't know! This was not in the--

MARISHA: (screaming) That was higher than I
thought!

MATT: Keyleth, by the way, looks wrecked. She's
still scratched everywhere, she's covered in

blood, but she's alive at one hit point.

LAURA: Kiki, that was really, really stupid. I put
my hands on both sides of her face and cast Cure

Wounds at 4th level. Oh, no! At 3rd level, because
I used Grasping Vine last time.

MATT: Yeah, 3rd level. Okay. So 3d8 plus your
wisdom modifier.

ASHLEY: Oh my god.

SAM: I better go check on them. I'll dive off the
cliff.

(laughter)

TRAVIS: Yeah. Good. Just a little drop.

MATT: That was a beautiful D&D moment, right
there.

LAURA: Oh my god.

LIAM: Vax is sitting with JB right now, going
like, so what was Pike like when she was really

little, little for a gnome?

TALIESIN: We all were wearing the necklace, so we
all got a beep.

MATT: You did, briefly.

LIAM: I was really paying attention to JB,
though.

TRAVIS: Is yours broken? I think mine's broken!

TALIESIN: I felt something.

LAURA: Keyleth.

MARISHA: I've been really stressed out here
lately, and that might have been very impulsive.

And I might have been blowing off some steam. And
I'm really sorry! (crying) I thought it was going

to be fine! I didn't know there was going to be
rocks!

LAURA: Maybe next time you're diving off a cliff,
turn into a bird.

MARISHA: Oh?

LAURA: Yeah.

MARISHA: It might have been a last-minute panic.

LAURA: I'm glad you're back.

MARISHA: Thanks, that was--

LAURA: You know what? Let's not even worry about
that coin there. I mean the diamond. I feel like,

maybe--

MARISHA: I could go get it now! It's fine. I'm
here now.

LAURA: Oh my god.

MARISHA: I feel really bad, because-- I feel bad
about that. I'm sorry.

LAURA: I think maybe this is a lesson learned in
what is worth risking our lives for.

TRAVIS: Is there a cloud of red in the water?

MATT: There was, but the waves are crashing pretty
heavy. Luckily, Vex grabbed her immediately,

because otherwise her body would have been thrown
under the rocks again by the surf. I just

explained the ocean to you before you jumped!
That's what would have happened!

TRAVIS: A thousand feet was all you needed.

TALIESIN: We have some amazing physics books that
we will actually get into at some point.

LAURA: How about you just climb onto the broom.
Don't worry about flying right now.

MARISHA: I can go get the thing.

LAURA: We're just going up.

MARISHA: I still have a Beast Shape left.

LAURA: We're just going to go up.

MARISHA: Okay.

LAURA: We're leaving.

TRAVIS: She's covered in gore, right?

MATT: Okay. Yeah, she's covered in blood.

LAURA: Price paid, I think.

MATT: So as you guys are talking to JB, who's
still stunned by the whole thing-- all of this

happened pretty quickly, so she's not necessarily
opening up entirely, but she's like, "Well. You

"know, we were both troublemakers."

LIAM: Yeah! Because she's got a wild streak. Now,
does that run in the family, or is that just her

and you?

MATT: "Oh, that definitely runs in the family."
She looks over to you Pike, again, and is like,

"I am so sorry. I didn't--"

ASHLEY: It's okay.

MATT: "I'll try and make it up to you."

ASHLEY: Just know I don't want you to-- if you
don't want to stay here, you don't have to stay

here. I'm not holding you here against your will
in any way, but I would love for you to stay

because I would love to get to know you better.

MATT: "How could I say no? (chuckles) I'll stay
until you need me to leave."

ASHLEY: Okay.

MATT: At which point, you watch as Vex and Keyleth
and the broom come up and land on the cliffside.

TALIESIN: Have you two found that diamond-- oh,
sweet Pelor!

LAURA: You know what? We're not going to worry
about the diamond right now. Yeah, let's just

maybe take a moment and recover from that battle
which was so hard on everyone.

ASHLEY: What happened?

LIAM: What? You-- What?

LAURA: She's fine. She's fine!

SAM: She's more blood than person.

ASHLEY: Do we need to fix anything?

LAURA: Maybe, Pike. If you can do a little--

ASHLEY: Yes! Cure Wounds!

LAURA: (whispers) Tary!

SAM: What?

LAURA: (whispers) I used your coin.

SAM: Oh! Oh.

LAURA: I know!

SAM: I'm glad I gave it to you, then. Ooh.

MARISHA: It's fine. I can go back and get that
diamond now. I feel really bad right now!

TALIESIN: I think somebody's got a carpet ride
down the hill coming to them.

LIAM: I'm casting Lay on Hands for my piddly 20
hit points. What did you do?

MARISHA: I thought it'd be fun. I haven't had a
lot of fun here lately, okay? It felt like the old

days of when Vox Machina was back together,
because we've been away for a while.

ASHLEY: You just dove off, Free Willy-nilly?

LAURA: You know, those rocks came out of nowhere.
I thought you were in the clear, as well. All I

saw was Keyleth and then this little tiny fleck of
gold and then gone.

TRAVIS: Wait, did you miss? Did you hit?

LIAM: Did you die?!

MARISHA: It's fine.

LIAM: She looks like a fucking macabre mess! What
happened?!

ASHLEY: I forgot that that's what that was. I felt
a (whirring), you know?

MARISHA: It's been a lot of responsibility here
lately, and a lot of being an adult and so I was

like: Vox! We're reckless!

LIAM: That's what alcohol is for! Don't jump off
cliffs anymore, please!

TRAVIS: Yeah, you fucked up. That was crazy.

TALIESIN: I have to confess, I've been feeling a
bit stir-crazy myself. Not jump-off-cliffs

stir-crazy, dear god.

LIAM: And I turn her bloody face to you and say,
let this be a lesson to you, then!

TALIESIN: I'm just saying that I understand the
impulse. This was not necessarily the best

expression of it.

TRAVIS: We should go on a hunt. That's what we
need.

TALIESIN: I think let's take a nap and then maybe
go out--

LIAM: I start kissing the gory mess in my hands
all over her forehead.

MARISHA: That's gross. Don't.

MATT: That's pretty gross. You marked off the 300
gold for the Revivify, right?

SAM: Oh, how many?

MATT: Revivify. It consumes a diamond worth 300
gold.

SAM: 300!

TRAVIS: Keyleth, did that hurt? Did it hurt?

MARISHA: It felt like blackness.

TRAVIS: Blackness?

MARISHA: It felt like a lot of adrenaline. And it
was super exciting and then next thing I knew,

everyone was super concerned about my well-being.

SAM: Are you addicted to death now?

MARISHA: No.

SAM: Have we healed her up a bit?

ASHLEY: I'm going to heal her up a little more.

SAM: I can do a healing draught for her.

ASHLEY: A what?

SAM: Healing draught.

MARISHA: Did you guys know: hitting water and
rocks from very high feels like hitting rocks!

TALIESIN: I literally have books on the subject.

MATT: Keyleth, as you turn around, you watch as
Tary is handing you this small glass vial of what

looks to be-- what color liquid is it?

SAM: It's colorless and odorless.

MATT: Okay, it's like a thicker water.

MARISHA: What's this?

SAM: Just drink it. It'll make you feel better.

MARISHA: I just dove off a cliff, so fuck it at
this point.

MATT: How much does she heal?

SAM: I rolled on my iPhone. 37. It's 8d8.

MATT: Keyleth, you heal 37 hit points.

MARISHA: Oh Jesus, 37?

LAURA: Do yours, too!

ASHLEY: Yeah! I'll do a Cure Wounds. I haven't
used any spells. Let's do 5th level.

TRAVIS: 5th level? Yeah!

MARISHA: I'm fine! Don't worry about me.

ASHLEY: Where are you at now?

MARISHA: I'm good! 104.

TALIESIN: Let's all go home, have a drink, and
discuss this over a drink.

MARISHA: Why? What? Why?

TALIESIN: Because I think this may speak to a
larger issue amongst us that maybe you are the

canary in the coal mine, here.

LAURA: I heard "We're gods!" before she hit.

TALIESIN: Was it "I'm a golden god?"

MARISHA: I said: I'm a golden god! But you know
what? I'm still alive; I wasn't entirely wrong.

TALIESIN: You're not still alive, you're alive
again!

LIAM: We should celebrate because we've broken in
the entire group.

TALIESIN: Yes, I think everybody has at least been
dead for a moment at this point.

MARISHA: Was I dead?

TALIESIN: Technically, yes.

TRAVIS: Look how much red is all over you!

MATT: Enough to the point where if you die again,
your resurrection DC has gone up.

Be aware of that.

TALIESIN: We could make another Kiki out of what
you're wearing right now.

LAURA: Have you died died? Tary died died.

SAM: Did I die? I think I died. In the water, I
think I died.

MATT: He did.

TALIESIN: He died at the palace.

SAM: Think I died.

LAURA: Let's go home.

MARISHA: Why are you looking at me like that?!
Don't look at me like that!

LAURA: I'm not looking at you like anything. You
need a bath, is what you need.

TRAVIS: Yeah, you're covered in shit.

LAURA: It's really a lot right now.

ASHLEY: I say we go back. I would love to go back
and maybe have lots of drinks.

SAM: Let's go home.

LIAM: JB. Welcome to the family.

MATT: She's just like, eyes wide open. "Right."
She clutches her book a little closer to her chest as you

guys begin to make your way down the mountainside.
A different path than the other Trickfoots were

taking.

ASHLEY: Good call.

TALIESIN: Maybe we need a hobby?

TRAVIS: We'll never beat that death.

LAURA: That's like Keyleth-falling-in-lava bad.

TALIESIN: That was magical.

MATT: Marisha, how many fail compilation videos
have you seen where people jump off the cliff and

hit just at the bottom. That was what you did.

MARISHA: (laughing) It was totally a fail video!

TRAVIS: We were in a huge fight with a fake thing
that did no damage and you killed yourself in four

seconds.

LIAM: I got this!

TRAVIS: We're gods! (vomit sound) Unreal. Couldn't
write it.

MARISHA: I thought I could make it!

MATT: I was like, one to 50, she hits the water.
51 to 100, she hits the rock. 94.

MARISHA: So I hit the rock.

MATT: Yeah, that's what happens.

TRAVIS: Either way, you were really screwed.

TALIESIN: To be fair, a goldfish, even at that
velocity-- although the velocity would have

lessened it more.

MARISHA: I should have bailed out as a bird.

LIAM: Make-believe has consequences.

TALIESIN: That's so true.

MATT: Over the course of the next day or little
over a day, you camp once in the Parchwood and

make your way back to Whitestone.

LIAM: Is 15 hours of that therapy?

MATT: For you, yeah.

MARISHA: I love how out of everything we've
seen, what I just did was apparently the most

fucked up. Out of everything that's happened to
us, and now we need therapy? Now we need

therapy?

TALIESIN: We were living Tolkien and now we've
suddenly shifted into Game of Thrones. It got very

dark, very random, very quickly.

TRAVIS: Gods. Dead. Five Seconds. Hard to beat.

LIAM: We all stand for something. What do you fall
for?

MATT: You find your way back to Whitestone. You
check in. The guards are happy to see that you've

returned fine. They report to you that the
Trickfoot clan have not returned and have not been

seen near the city since your return. There are
few questions as to where they went.

TALIESIN: We're going to have their vehicle
searched for anything that doesn't belong to them,

and then made ready for them outside the city
bounds.

MATT: "Very well, sir." And they search through it
and mostly what's found in there are maybe 102

gold pieces.

TALIESIN: Do we have anybody with a criminal
background search the vehicle?

MATT: I mean, there are a number of people.

TALIESIN: I would like someone extremely sketchy
to search. Actually, Vax, would you search the

vehicle?

ASHLEY: And JB, if there is anything you need out
of there.

TRAVIS: You have chocolate on your face.

MATT: JB wipes it with a thumb.

TALIESIN: Including anything that you think would
be in more capable hands if they were

in your hands.

MATT: She shakes her head and "Wait." She climbs
up on the cart and she comes back and has a book.

Like a small tattered book and she puts it to her
side. "That's all. I don't care about the rest."

ASHLEY: Okay.

TALIESIN: Vax, quick check to see if there's
anything we care about.

LIAM: Oh, so good. Investigation, yeah? 18.

MATT: 18? You find the gold. You find a cache of
dried jerky meats. You find what looks to be some

leftover meat pie crust bits that have been there
for a few days. Starting to smell a little bit.

And you get the sense that anything of importance
was on their persons. They weren't really storing

a lot of things in an open cart.

LIAM: This has been a bad couple of days.

TALIESIN: All right, just wanted to make sure
there wasn't anything (sighs) complicated. Leave

the gold, obviously, and the food.

MATT: All right.

SAM: Burn the wagon.

(laughter)

MATT: As you say that, Doty's like, "Tary."

SAM and ASHLEY: No!

SAM: You have to learn humor, Doty. Sarcasm.

MATT: All righty, so. What do you want to do?

SAM: Is it night?

MATT: By the time you've returned, it's probably
late afternoon. We'll say at this point because

it's been about a little over a day and a half at
this point, so, yeah. Mid-afternoon.

LAURA: Shit.

SAM: What should we do?

LAURA: I don't know.

SAM: We can go check on the Slayer's Cake?

LAURA: Oh yeah, we should probably do that. It's
been a couple of days.

SAM: Yeah.

LAURA: What did we do with it while we were gone?

SAM: Did we have someone running it? Do we have
someone?

MATT: (laughs) You do not.

TALIESIN: There's a sign that says "Closed for
adventuring."

SAM: Okay. We should hire someone.

LAURA: We really should.

SAM: Yeah.

LAURA: To run it if we're not around. (gasps) JB!

TRAVIS: Yeah, the thief. That's a good idea.

ASHLEY: Oh, that's a great idea!

LAURA: Well, do you like baking?

MATT: "I haven't really tried."

SAM: Have you any management experience?

MATT: "I took care of Uncle Ogden."

ASHLEY: I feel like she would be great at it.
Would you even be interested in maybe running a

bakery? Or is that something that just sounds like
the most dreadful thing in the world?

MATT: (nervous laugh) "I don't know." And she
pulls her hair. "I could try."

LAURA: How are you at math?

MATT: "I'm quite good at math, actually."

LAURA: Fabulous. Let's head there and see how you
do.

SAM: Yes. Let's see, but not make any promises,
because someone who's never run any--

LAURA: Right, Tary, you would know about hiring
people far more than--

SAM: We should have a proper interview.

LAURA: Right.

SAM: Check references.

LIAM: Well, you weren't a proper adventurer until
you were. Got to start somewhere.

SAM: True, but I had the advantage of being able
to buy my way in.

LAURA: That's true, but you were still pretty
shitty at it, when we first started.

TALIESIN: This is a form of nepotism. It's pretty
reasonable.

SAM: I'm open to it.

MATT: All right, is everyone going to the Slayer's
Cake?

LAURA: Yeah, because we can eat, too!

MATT: Okay. Right, you guys all make your way to
the Slayer's Cake, as the afternoon is coming to a

close, dusk is starting to change the colors of
the sky. Clouds are beginning to move in, as the

night's evening air grows colder. As you come to
the outside, you see, it's dark and closed, and

you see what appears to be a figure sitting on the
ground against the wall, back to the wall, knees

huddled up.

SAM: Not JB?

MATT: No, JB is walking with you guys.

SAM: In front of the bakery?

MATT: By the door, a little bit adjacent to where
the door is closed.

LAURA: We don't recognize them. Can we see their
face?

MATT: Make a perception check.

TALIESIN: Is this the same day, or has it been a
day now?

SAM: It's been a day.

TALIESIN: Oh, thank god.

LAURA: No! 30.

MATT: (laughs) Yeah! You see actually, a woman in
her late thirties or so, early forties,

platinum-blonde hair, that's pulled up in a ratty
bun. She's got strands hanging in the front of her

face, that go to about just past her chin. She has a
very simple dress, and a somewhat dirty apron, and

a small satchel on her side, and she's leaning
against the wall, her knees clutched to her, she's

looking forward, she hasn't noticed you guys yet;
you're a little ways up.

LAURA: And I don't recognize her.

MATT: No, you do not recognize her.

LAURA: Excuse me?

MATT: "Oh!" And she gets up, and stands up, and
(grunting) her back creaks a little bit, and she

stretches it, and dusts off the front of her
apron, you see little bit of dust (poof). "I'm

"terribly sorry, I wasn't sure when you were going
to be coming back."

LAURA: Oh, yeah, no. We were just off on an
adventure, but it'll take a little while before

the food is ready.

MATT: "Oh, that. (sighs) If you have a moment?
Fine sirs and madams, I'm sorry to bother you, you

"see, my husband Dathen has not returned from sea
in about six months. And I'm not certain if he's

"coming back, and I'm without work and coffers he
left me have come empty this month, so could you

"perhaps use a hand here at the bakery?"

LAURA: Timing is quite--

MATT: It was ridiculous timing, yeah.

SAM: Madam, what's your name?

MATT: "Hilda."

SAM: And you would like a job at our bakery?

MATT: "If at all possible."

ASHLEY: Do you bake?

MATT: "I do!" She reaches into her satchel and you
see in the inside she has a bunch of these small

things wrapped in paper, and she opens one and
pulls it out and shows it to you. You see it's

this tiny little cream puff. It's perfectly made,
and has a little icing on the top. She's like,

"I used to just make these for old Dathen, but--"

SAM: May we try it?

MATT: "Of course!" She goes and pulls a handful
out and hands them amongst you and gives them

over.

ASHLEY: This is a beautiful cream puff.

LAURA: They're really hard to make.

SAM: Quick sidebar. This is better than anything
we've ever made.

LAURA: Did you already eat it?

SAM: Yes. It was really good.

LAURA: I'm going to wait a few minutes to see if
Tary looks like he just falls over or anything.

SAM: Wait. What? You think it's poisoned?

LAURA: No. I'm sure it's not.

SAM: I ate it. I ate the whole thing in one bite.

LAURA: It was really good?

SAM: Am I going to die?

TRAVIS: Give me all your stuff.

TALIESIN: How often do you just eat strangers'
cream puffs?

MATT: Her eyes go wide and like (mumbles).

SAM: Am I going to die? Did you just kill me?

MATT: "No!"

LAURA: No, she didn't.

ASHLEY: No.

(laughter)

MATT: It's actually very good. It's very, very
good.

TALIESIN: You're right, that is fun.

LAURA: It's really good.

TALIESIN: Well, if it's all the same, I may have
another prospect for JB anyway.

LAURA: Well, come on inside, Hilda. Let's show you
around.

MATT: "Oh, all right."

ASHLEY: This is delicious.

SAM: It's really good.

ASHLEY: This is better than anything that we
make.

TALIESIN: It can't possibly be that good.

ASHLEY: Have you tried any of our baked goods,
yet?

MATT: "I haven't. I've seen it from a distance,
but I couldn't really afford to. I'd like to."

LAURA: Do you live here in Whitestone?

MATT: "I do. I live right behind--" And she points
up to the left. Like if the Sun Tree is in the

center and you head up straight on the eastern
side-- sorry, the western side of the square, the

path that leads up towards Whitestone Castle, she
points about two blocks up and on the left. And

there's a small hovel that's pushed between two
buildings there. And she goes,

"That's where I stay."

ASHLEY: Can I insight check her? Because I don't
trust anybody.

LAURA: I don't trust anybody!

MATT: Go for it.

LAURA: It just makes us seem like assholes,
because we're like (grumbles). I want to go in a

little bit and ask around and see what people
think of her.

TRAVIS: What? A background check?

LAURA: A little background check.

ASHLEY: 27.

MATT: 27? Okay.

SAM: The whispers.

ASHLEY: I get a whisper?!

SAM: Have you never had a whisper?

ASHLEY: I don't think on the show I've had a
whisper.

SAM: Oh my god, everybody's firsts tonight.
Backblaze, ladies and gentlemen.

backblaze.com/criticalrole to get two weeks free
or something.

LAURA: Oh my gosh!

SAM: Yeah, two weeks. Oh, you want to do the
infomercial bit again?

LAURA: I really do, but you guys did such an
amazing job, though.

TALIESIN: This is why we're the cool table.

ASHLEY: Well, I think that she should die. I'm
just kidding.

(laughter)

TALIESIN: Bake her into the pies.

ASHLEY: Do you have references?

MATT: "References?"

SAM: Have you worked anywhere else?

MATT: "No, I've mostly just been a housewife,
until recently."

SAM: Do you have anyone in the community who could
vouch for your character and trustworthiness?

MATT: "Perhaps. Norma Kell wakes up in the
morning. There's also Keeper Yennen."

SAM: Oh, Keeper Yennen! We know him! I think,
right? We know him?

LAURA: Yeah, we know Keeper Yennen.

MATT: "Yeah, aye. That's all I can think of at the
moment."

ASHLEY: How long has your husband been missing?

MATT: "About six months."

ASHLEY: About six months.

LAURA: What was he doing?

MATT: "He's a merchant sailor, coming in and out,
but he'd be back within the month usually. Some

"trips took longer, but six months seems
extraordinarily long for him."

SAM: Where did he go, again?

MATT: "Last I know, he does a circle around the
southern tip of Tal'Dorei and he usually hits Emon

"by ship. Occasionally heads over to the-- where is
it? The shama?"

TRAVIS: Shambala?

MATT: "Maybe something like that. I don't really
know for sure. It's a long ways away."

LAURA: Keyleth? I whisper to her. Keyleth, can you
scry on people we don't know?

MARISHA: If I have a piece of one of their
belongings. Yeah, that definitely helps, yeah.

LAURA: Hilda? Would you like us to check and see
if we can potentially find him?

MATT: "You can do that?"

LAURA: Well, if you have something of his that we
can look at, we might be able to help.

MATT: "Oh, aye! Just a moment." And she goes and
she goes rushing up the street real fast, this

renewed excitement in her face.

LAURA: How do we feel about her?

SAM: Pike, if you were dead set on JB taking over
the business--

ASHLEY: No, I'm not. JB, don't feel pressured if
you don't want to do this. She's a fantastic

baker.

LAURA: I mean, she's a really good baker. But
maybe JB can handle the books, and she can handle

the baking.

TALIESIN: Well, there is another option. Which is
that we have a giant pile of histories and library

and novels in our collected library, and we are
searching for information about the thing

underneath the castle, and we need readers. We
need lots and lots of people to read lots and lots

of books.

MATT: JB, you watch, like the excitement you just
saw on Hilda's face now hits JB's face.

"I'm a good reader. I can--"

LAURA: Well, okay.

ASHLEY: Yeah, that seems like a little more fun.

MATT: "Okay, yeah. I can also help with this if
you want. I'm more than happy to do both. I have a

"lot of free time now."

LAURA: That's true. You could run the bakery
during the day.

SAM: Why don't while we're gone you could help
Hilda. Hilda?

ASHLEY: Hilda.

SAM: Hilda. You could just help out, but maybe
leave her in charge? She seems like a--

TALIESIN: Or you could sit in the castle and read
diaries and ancient tomes of Whitestone.

MARISHA: Do I notice Grog looking uncomfortable?

TALIESIN: I definitely notice. I don't care.

LIAM: (cell phone ringing) Oh dear.

LAURA: Timer's done!

MATT: Grog, does she notice you feeling
uncomfortable?

TRAVIS: I don't know. Do you?

MARISHA: I don't know, do I?

MATT: Grog, are you uncomfortable?

TRAVIS: With this talk of reading? A little bit.

ASHLEY: (whispering) But Grog, you can read some
of those books a little bit.

TRAVIS: Yeah, let's not get ahead of ourselves,
all right?

ASHLEY: Well, okay. I think this is a great idea.

LAURA: I'm watching where Hilda is running.

MATT: Okay.

TRAVIS: I had a quick thought. If her husband's
dead, are we just going to tell her that right

now? Just you know, husband's dead. He's being
eaten by fish.

LAURA: No!

LIAM: No, you didn't get a read.

LAURA: Yeah, so Keyleth, if you like do read it
and you see it's super bad, don't--

LIAM: Oh, it's too hazy. I can't see him.

TRAVIS: That doesn't seem right at all

ASHLEY: No, but I think she should plan for her
life if he's not coming back.

TRAVIS: Yep. Pike and I are in agreement.

LAURA: But right now?

SAM: What if he's alive and in peril, do we tell
her that? We're going to lose our only employee.

LAURA: Well, then we go try to help him, maybe.

SAM: Really? We have to go help someone? We just
met this person!

LAURA: That's what we do, Tary!

TALIESIN: We haven't done that in quite a while to
be fair.

TRAVIS: Plus, he was in somewhere like shambalam.

SAM: Do we know what she was talking about, by the
way?

MATT: You get the sense she probably was meaning
Shamel, which is the port where you guys had your

vacation. The Bay of Gifts.

SAM: We could go on vacation again!

MATT: About ten minutes or so pass and then Hilda
comes back, and you see she's clutching what looks

to be a small, gold chain. And she takes it and
goes, "This belonged to my husband. I don't know

"if this'll help."

LAURA: Sure. Keyleth?

SAM: Ignore the blood all over her body.

LAURA: She's fine.

MATT: You probably cleaned up over the past day or
so travel. Unless you didn't, in which case you

are just a sticky Carrie.

MARISHA: No, I look awesome.

LIAM: It's dried in the hair, though, and caked
in.

MARISHA: I'm a little spacey, maybe? For a little
bit.

MATT: Yeah, understandably. You know, like you
do.

MARISHA: It's hard to say.

MATT: But anyway, she hands you the gold chain.

TALIESIN: Just checking, do you want to know no
matter what? Good or ill?

MATT: "Oh, I just want to know something."

TALIESIN: Fair enough.

MARISHA: What was his name?

SAM: Athen?

MATT: Yeah, it was Dathen. D-A-T-H-E-N. Dathen.

MARISHA: Can you tell me anything else about him
that would maybe help? What does he look like?

MATT: "He's got dusty brown hair, usually about
shoulder length. Well, he doesn't really grow

"facial hair but he's pretty scruffy, lower the
way. It's been many months, so I don't know.

"Medium build? Maybe about this high?" And she
gives a couple of inches off her own height. "He's

"got a right scar across his neck and his chest
right there he got when he was a kid."

MARISHA: All right. Should be enough. I'll do an
actual scrying spell.

MATT: All righty. So looking at the scrying spell
here. All right. You sit there and focus and

concentrate-- and darkness. Nothing. No link.
She's looking expectantly.

MARISHA: What's that?

MATT: She's looking at you expectantly.

MARISHA: Hilda? If he is on this plane of
existence, I don't know if it's a good sign. But

it doesn't mean that he couldn't be lost somewhere
else. My spell only extends to this plane of

existence but there are many planes. I can try
again.

MATT: "No. That's all right. That's all I needed
to know. Thank you." At this point, as the sun is

setting, starting to go into the evening, you can
see the light causing her to blear a little bit.

Here in the shade she's like, "Can we perhaps talk
in the morning?"

LAURA: Of course. Take the evening.

MATT: "Where can I find you? Up?" As she points
over to the castle.

LAURA: Sure, yeah. One of us will be back here
tomorrow as well.

MATT: "All right. Thank you." And she quietly
walks back to the corner of the city

where she was from.

LAURA: Well, shit.

MARISHA: Well, that's not good.

LIAM: Give the woman a job. Keep her busy.

LAURA and ASHLEY: Yeah.

SAM: I'm just throwing this out there. If that was
a ploy to get a higher salary, I'm not biting.

LAURA: Tary.

SAM: I'm just saying, she could be very cunning.

TRAVIS: Yep, she might have killed her husband.

MARISHA: I don't think so.

TRAVIS: Pretty sure she did it.

MARISHA: Do I have any further inkling?

MATT: No. Just did not find a source. Did not find
a source. Nothing. Nothing for the spell to grab

onto.

LAURA: Maybe you and I can take a stroll up by her
abode.

LIAM: All right.

LAURA: And just see.

LIAM: Sure.

LAURA: Make sure she's all right and--

LIAM: Right, best of intentions, yeah. I feel
you.

TRAVIS: We are background checking a fucking
bakery employee in our Dungeons and Dragons game!

LIAM: Matt has burned us too many times.

ASHLEY: The stupid box that we buried still haunts
me to this day.

LIAM: We just got swindled yesterday.

LAURA: Come on! We don't trust anyone

SAM: She didn't give us a social security, we
don't have an I-9. There's nothing.

LAURA: There's no way to know. She could just be
in here trying to get close to Vox Machina before

she takes us all down like Raishan.

SAM: She could be Raishan.

LAURA: She could!

TALIESIN: Speaking of deeply distrustful persons.
JB, do you want to come see the library? Does

anybody else want to come?

ASHLEY: I would love to come!

MATT: "Yes! Please!"

TRAVIS: Yeah, me too.

MARISHA: Are you insinuating that JB isn't
trustful?

TALIESIN: Oh! Absolutely, in the best possible
way. I'm highly excited, and I think you're going

to do very well.

MATT: "Okay."

TALIESIN: See?

MARISHA: We like untrustworthy people. None of us
are trustworthy; it's good.

MATT: "I know, I've read."

(laughter)

TALIESIN: Oh, that made me happy.

LAURA: We go by her hovel.

MATT: Okay. As you guys make your way back to the
castle you stop and go over there. You can see

it's one of three small homes that are jammed in
the alley areas between these larger buildings.

Almost like there's businesses on this one corner
and they have smaller people that are living more

meager means. Each one of them appears to be
occupied. The one that she pointed to, you go to

it and it seems... there. There's like a very low
light through one of the windows.

LIAM: I'm going to be real shitty and stealth up
and peek in and see what she's up to.

MATT: Okay, make a stealth check.

LAURA: She's changing. Crying, naked.

LIAM: We'll find out won't we. 33 for stealth.

MATT: All righty, and then make a perception
check.

LIAM: Yeah. Natural 20.

MATT: Okay. You glance up and over the side and
from the low candlelit interior, which you watch

as there's a small candle that's lit on a little
wick there. And there's almost no furniture in

this house whatsoever. There's a stool and you
just see her sitting on the stool, motionless.

LIAM: I want to insight check and just get as good
a read on her emotional state as I can, even

though she's got a thousand-yard stare. This is
insight?

MATT: Yes.

LIAM: I'll use Luck. Better.

TRAVIS: Luck?

LIAM: Sure, why not? What am I saving it for? 18.

MATT: 18. I mean she's faced away from you. It's
hard to pick up-- away but to the side, and you

just see her just there. And you see her rummage
through her satchel on the side. Pull out a cream

puff and eat it.

LAURA: There's not even a bed in there? Just a
stool?

MATT: Just a stool.

LIAM: Into the earring I say: We are terrible,
terrible assholes. She seems fine. She seems

worthy of a baking job. You know, work with her
for a day, but I'm not seeing anything hinky here.

Yeah? You need anything else?

LAURA: No, I'm going to go talk to Keeper
Yennen.

LIAM: Because I'm staring at a woman crying into
her satchel.

SAM: Still going to talk to Yennen?

LAURA: It's our fucking business, you know?

SAM: Yeah, of course.

TALIESIN: This is more work than we put in hiring
our first castle guards.

LAURA: Yeah. Come on, at least we aren't trying to
like ambush her and attack her like we attacked

you, Tary.

LIAM: My significant other just mangled herself. I
need to keep busy. Let's go see Yennen. And so I

lead her off.

MATT: Ha okay. You guys go ahead and make your way
towards Yennen's small temple in town. It's past

the evening sun, so you see Yennen's one younger
boy who helps him keep the establishment. He's in

the process of sweeping some of the fallen leaves
and various dust that has found its way into the

half-open dome place of worship. As you approach
he says, "Hi."

LAURA: Can I ask you a question, Keeper?

MATT: "Oh are you looking for Yennen?"

LAURA: Oh shit, yeah, sorry.

MATT: This is the younger boy.

LAURA: Keeper-in-training, is Keeper Yennen here?

MATT: "Let me get him." Puts the broom away.
Leaves for a second. The door opens to the side,

and you see Yennen come out, half awake. Looks
like he's in his evening attire, sleeping attire.

LAURA: Oh shit.

LIAM: Sorry.

LAURA: It's really that late? Oh, he's very old.

LIAM: Sorry.

LAURA: I'm so sorry to wake you.

MATT: "That's all right."

LAURA: Oh, I feel like a dick.

MATT: "What can I do for you?"

LAURA: I just wanted to ask you about someone you
might know.

MATT: "Yes?"

LAURA: Hilda?

MATT: "Hilda? Yes, yes."

LAURA: What do you know about her?

MATT: "Not too much. She seems nice and keeps to
herself. She lives that way."

LAURA: How long have you known her?

MATT: "15 years?"

LAURA: 15 years? She's been here 15 years?

MATT: "Her and her husband."

LAURA: Yeah. All right. What was he like? What is
he like?

MARISHA: Oh shit!

MATT: "A bit of a rambunctious young lad, until he
grew up. Don't see him very often.

"He comes in and out."

LAURA: He's a sailor. Well, that was helpful.
Anything remarkable? Any sort of

untrustworthiness? Do you think she's fine? She's
cool?

MATT: "I assume. Is everything all right?"

LAURA: Everything's fine. You know, we're just
weird people right now. It's great.

LIAM: You don't know anything about Orcus, do
you?

MATT: "I know of."

LIAM: Didn't think so. We should leave.

LAURA: Thank you so much. Get some rest. I'm so
sorry to bother you.

LIAM: Come on.

MATT: "All right. Goodnight."

LAURA: We're making assholes of ourselves.

LIAM: Surprise.

LAURA: Fine. We'll go meet up with everyone else.

SAM: What did you find out?

LAURA and LIAM: So much.

LAURA: She's a loner.

ASHLEY: She's a loner?

LAURA: She's lived here for 15 years, but nobody
really knows anything.

SAM: And you say she sits in a room by herself
eating pastries?

LIAM: That's what she's doing tonight. I don't
think that's what she does every day.

LAURA: Who knows? She doesn't have a bed.

ASHLEY: Why is there no furniture in her
apartment?

SAM: Let's watch her work for a day. See how it
goes.

LIAM: Did I see more than one room, or was it a
single-room home?

MATT: From what you can tell, it's a single room.
There's a pile of linens in a corner. There was a

stool. It looked like there was a small area for
cooking.

LAURA: It's like Skyrim, y'all. There's a stool
and a cheese wheel.

TALIESIN: And a pot, and if you break it, there's
five coins.

MARISHA: And steal their plants from outside.

TALIESIN: And throw them at chickens.

ASHLEY: Mountain flowers.

MARISHA: Nightshade.

LAURA: Well, this was productive.

TALIESIN: At least we know, and there's no harm in
being careful. It's not like it's never happened

before.

LAURA: Right.

TALIESIN: It's not the first time that we've been
trusting and been betrayed. Or the second or the

third. It's reasonable to be a bit cautious and we
were a bit cautious.

LIAM: Of cakes?

TALIESIN: Of cakes. To be fair, we are going to be
eating them.

TRAVIS: Are we reading right now?

TALIESIN: I assume we've gotten to the library. I
don't know.

MATT: They've traveled for a bit, you've had time
to hit the library and begin showing JB around.

ASHLEY: Are there children's books in here?

TRAVIS: I found one! Look! Bus-ee-ness. Buseness.

MARISHA: He's learning.

TRAVIS: Bus-ee-what?

LAURA, ASHLEY, and MARISHA: Business?

TRAVIS: Sound it out. Bus-eye-ness

MARISHA: Did you find a ledger? Is that what you
found?

TALIESIN: There are books I read as a child.

ASHLEY: (whispers) Where are they?

TALIESIN: Everywhere.

ASHLEY: Can I see if I can find a kid's book?

LIAM: That's pronounced boysness.

TRAVIS: Boysness. Can you use it in a sentence,
please?

LIAM: Grog got down to boysness and ended a fool's
life.

ASHLEY: 13.

MATT: 13? You find what amounts to a children's
book for Percival.

TALIESIN: Bless you.

SAM: High school biology.

TALIESIN: The Game of Logic by Lewis Carroll.

MATT: Yeah. Most of the books here are of
relatively advanced reading level. You gather it's

a trait of the De Rolo family.

TALIESIN: Gives me the sense that this kid's going
to be fine.

TRAVIS: Or-chid.

LAURA: Grog you can do the "ch?"

TRAVIS: Or-chide.

LAURA and ASHLEY: Orchid.

TRAVIS: No, it's not kid.

ASHLEY: Sometimes when those letters are together,
it sounds like a K.

LAURA: What book are you reading that's about
boysness and orchids?

TRAVIS: It's an orchid business.

LAURA: Boysness.

TRAVIS: Boysness. Which is a location in Marquet.

MATT: All right. Are you guys doing anything else
for the evening?

TALIESIN: Just showing her what we would like to
pay her to do. Which is: all of these books,

there's this huge section that are mostly
histories, diaries, folk tales, or otherwise. Take

one of these slips of paper when you read a book.
You write your name on it and you leave it in the

book. Then anytime you find anything peculiar-- a
ghost story or a strange occurrence in any of

these books. Anything at all that might be
fanciful or unexplained, you mark with a piece of

gold thread and put it back on the shelf and then one
of the other librarians will come and find that

book and bring it down for further study. You just
have to find the most interesting of these books

and make sure that they're well marked.

MATT: "I can do that."

TALIESIN: I had a funny feeling.

MARISHA: What makes them interesting?

TALIESIN: What makes a book interesting? I
genuinely don't know how to answer that.

LAURA: Sexy pictures.

TALIESIN: There's not a lot of that in this
library.

MARISHA: Are you giving someone parameters by
which they don't really have rules to follow?

TALIESIN: Well that's the trouble with looking for
something that if you don't know what it is.

MARISHA: Right.

TALIESIN: But if in one of these diaries someone
remarks upon a strange murder or a ghost story, or

honestly, anything interesting that's a bit
peculiar, you just mark it and then we take a look.

That way we thin out the amount that 
we have to read down to a manageable amount.

MARISHA: So, it takes a peculiar person to know
what's peculiar?

TALIESIN: That does help, yes.

MATT: "Okay, I can do that."

MARISHA: Yeah.

ASHLEY: Is there a place-- just ask Percy
privately. She can stay with me.

TALIESIN: I assumed.

ASHLEY: Do I have an extra bedroom? Or how does
this work?

TALIESIN: Where is Pike?

LAURA: Is she staying in the castle, right?

MATT: She has a room in the castle, one that used
to be one of the guest rooms when you had people

you were entertaining.

ASHLEY: Maybe there's a Murphy bed or something
extra in the room.

MATT: It's easy enough to put a second bed in
there. The doorways are wide.

TALIESIN: If she would like her own room, that can
absolutely be arranged.

ASHLEY: JB? Do you-- I don't know how--

MATT: She's in the process of looking and she's
like writing down, taking notes of the different

sections, talking to herself. She's not even
looking at you.

ASHLEY: You are more than welcome to stay with me.
I do have night terrors, so sometimes not fun, but

you can stay with me or you could have your own
room.

MATT: "No, that's fine."

ASHLEY: Okay. Wait, which one?

MATT: "Staying with you. Is there something I
should do if you're having a night terror?"

ASHLEY: Just wait it out.

MATT: "Okay, don't wake you up?"

ASHLEY: Nah.

MATT: "Okay."

ASHLEY: Okay. This will be fun. It'll be like
sleepovers. Maybe we can make a fort!

MATT: "We can make forts? Out of what?"

ASHLEY: Just all the blankets. Tapestries.

MATT: You watch all of a sudden her eyes-- in this
library, there are a number of old tapestries and

you know carpet elements around. You watch as she
scans the entire room for materials and goes,

"Oh, we can do this."

ASHLEY: I have a feeling you are a great fort
builder.

MATT: "I haven't tried, but I have some
theories."

TALIESIN: I pull two engineering books off the
shelf and hide them.

MATT: Perfect. All right.

TALIESIN: I feel like this has been taken care of.
You know the system.

ASHLEY: Percy, thank you.

TALIESIN: Would you like an extra bed sent?

ASHLEY: Yes, please.

TALIESIN: That can be arranged.

MATT: Okay, so you have a second bed installed in
Pike's room. You guys have your dinner for the

evening, anything else?

TALIESIN: Take another look at the thing
downstairs.

LAURA: Well, I go with you.

MATT: Okay. You guys head down into the tunnels,
make your way to the ziggurat beneath Whitestone

and as you enter the inside of the chamber, you
can see there's a few torches set up in there.

There is that secondary platform where you guys
met a year ago, where you had the small council

with Raishan as well to decide what was to become
of the Chroma Conclave. Up there, you can see

there's a whole research bench set up with a
couple of desks and pretty much all the

information that's been gathered, and various
things that have been studied over the past year

or so about it. What has been figured out, and
there were theories thrown around before of it

being a siphon. An artifact that is related to
something that was referred to as a Sphere of

Annihilation. Not directly, but an offshoot of
that type of enchantment. As opposed to completely

destroying anything it comes into contact with,
it's attuned in the siphoning of things from one

location to another. It's a translocation type of
magic. There have been a number of things that

have been placed within this sphere and did not
return, including one volunteer, a member of the

Pale Guard, who during the year's research
volunteered to step through and was not heard from

again. And that stopped any future volunteers from
rising to the occasion. But since the research

that's been taken up about what the siphon's
existence, during the Age of Arcanum they were one,

used as a defensive measure against powerful
mages, but that was more of a secondary use during

the actual war that ended the Age of Arcanum.
Their initial creation was supposed to be able to

harness and shift ley line energy. The idea was
wherever there was a large source of magical

energy but it was inconvenient, its placement, its
natural placement in the world, they could use

these siphons to basically triangulate and shift
where that energy would go.

TALIESIN: It's been here an awful long time now. We
don't even know if they created it or if they

found it.

MATT: You don't know, like the information about
them is I would say almost mythological, in the

sense that there are stories that talk about them
and a lot of the information was destroyed during

the Divergence regarding to the older Age of
Arcanum magics.

TALIESIN: The castle's always had strange
stories.

MATT: Yeah, and this is information that was
brought together by Eskil Ryndarien when he was

down here researching with Allura even during the
Conclave. A lot of people have gone off because

the research hit a wall, it was like, "Well, we
find out pretty much everything about this, we just

"don't know where the siphon is going, and anything
we've tried to put through doesn't come back." So

the theory is to find the other half of the siphon
because it's a connecting point. There's two sides

to it, so if it this is correct, then the theory
is there would be another side to it. Or if not it

might just be a Sphere of Annihilation or
something adjacent to it and is essentially a null

and void circumstance. Those are where the
theories stand.

LAURA: Percy?

TALIESIN: Yes?

LAURA: The crystal that Lillith gave you. Does
that work across planes?

MATT: You have to be on the same plane of
existence

LAURA: Okay.

TALIESIN: I've thought about it. I definitely
think there's something on the other side of this,

and this thing is how I think I know that our work is not
yet done. I dream about it sometimes. Do you ever

come down and just look at it?

LAURA: To be honest, it intimidates me quite a
bit.

TALIESIN: What do you see?

LAURA: What do I see?

Can I use my oracle arrow
and shoot it into it?

MATT: You can certainly give it a try. You can
certainly try.

SAM: (whispers) What's an oracle arrow?

TRAVIS: She can shoot her arrow--

LAURA: And see through the arrow. Okay. What do I
do?

MATT: All right, well, go ahead and roll an
attack.

LAURA: Okay.

TALIESIN: Let's back up a bit of a distance.

LAURA: Yeah. We'll back up as far as we can so I
can still hit the thing. It is a magical arrow,

and this thing cuts out all the magic but maybe
once it goes through the siphon, maybe I'll still

be able to use it?

TALIESIN: Well, we can actually get to the edge
where magic starts again and then it might

reconnect once it goes through.

LAURA: Yeah, we'll stand outside of the door.

SAM: So you only have one of these?

LAURA: I have two per short rest.

SAM: Oh, you're fine.

MATT: As part of your newly-exalted bow. Okay,
this is going to be-- hold on to that roll

whatever that was. So to get out of the radius,
because it basically cuts right into the hallway

that leads inside of it, you have to back out of
the chamber into the hallway a few feet and

basically get on the ground and aim upwards
towards, and you're going to have to arc over the

top of the ziggurat to get in. So this is a shot
with a disadvantage.

LIAM: Sharpshooter?

LAURA: With disadvantage. I am sharpshooter.

LIAM: Wouldn't that nullify that? Three-quarter
cover means nothing. It's just full cover.

MATT: Well, what I was going to say it would have
a really high AC with disadvantage. I'm not going

to consider it with having a super high AC. It's
still a very hard shot.

LAURA: So disadvantage?

MATT: So disadvantage on the shot.

LAURA: 30.

SAM: Whoa!

LIAM: Yeah, both were high teens.

ASHLEY: It's Critical Role's dice.

LAURA: It is the Critical Role dice.

TALIESIN: What?! I'm so proud of you!

SAM: It shouldn't work.

TALIESIN: It shouldn't work, but it did!

ASHLEY: T-shirts!

SAM: Weirdly, the arrow hits and kills Keyleth.

MARISHA: (death rattle) Not like this.

SAM: Don't do that! This is a long whisper.

LIAM: He's telling her real stuff, man.

SAM: Oh man, this is not what we normally get.

TALIESIN: No, this is a whole chunk of stuff.

ASHLEY: Backblaze!

SAM: By the way, just a little insight, what we
normally get on the whispers is,

"From what you can tell, it seems 
totally normal." And then that's about it.

MARISHA: That's actually really accurate.

TALIESIN: Briefly, back in the old days, they were
experimenting with texting us whispers.

SAM: As far as you can tell he thinks he's telling
the truth.

ASHLEY: I want to know.

TALIESIN: I'm glad we stopped trying to text each
other whispers.

SAM: Whoa, her mind is blown.

LAURA: Can I have a pencil! I got to write this
shit down. Pencil!

TALIESIN: Her eyes go white and it's just
(scribbling). Yay.

ASHLEY: It was so much!

SAM: She's drawing a weird alien creature.

LAURA: I got to write it down or else I'll
forget!

SAM: Big head, big eyes, small body.

TALIESIN: Three syllables. We're being invaded by
dingbats.

MARISHA: What does a smiley emoji mean? I don't
understand.

SAM: She speaks Arrival language now.

LAURA: Oh my god. Percy! I saw something!

TALIESIN: You didn't. Really?

LAURA: I did! I think it was another plane.

LIAM: Vex dies.

TALIESIN: We have to figure out how to-- is there
a way to make sure we get every detail? I'm

finding pen and paper; we're writing everything
you can remember down. Is there a way to recall

someone's memory in perfect detail, is there any
sort of magic that can actually--

MATT: There are, yeah.

TALIESIN: Okay. This shit's happening!

LAURA: Otherwise, I could just tell you what I
sort of saw, but I heard a lot of "Backblaze!" in

the background.

TALIESIN: It was the Backblaze dimension?

MATT: They're not siphons. They're storage units!

MARISHA: You saw the cloud? What did it look
like?

MATT: Just Pelor backing up his hard drive. All
right. It's pretty vivid for you, and so as you

recount. What she saw is the arrow, it was
darkness when she fired it, as it passed through

the sphere of anti-magic, there was nothing. And
then suddenly, imagery blinked through the arrow.

From the perspective of it as it coasted away, she
looked behind and could see the twin to this orb.

Apparently not under the same anti-magic shell on
the other side. Whereas this side steals magic,

the other side emits it. As the arrow landed and
clattered to the stonework maybe 20 feet below the

orb, looking around, she saw a landscape of
blackened, broken stone and ground. Distant

mountainscapes of jagged crags, like teeth across
the horizon. The sky itself was black and

shadowed, like it was perpetually amidst a distant
forest fire, and where you can see the grey in the

sky you can see roiling thunder clouds with
flashes of lightning. And roughly a mile or so

from what you could tell from where this was you
could see what appeared to be a large obsidian

tower of twisted black stone that went up for what
appeared to be a dozen or more stories.

LAURA: Don't we know something about obsidian--

MARISHA: The same tower we saw in the Nine Hells?

LAURA: No.

MATT: No, different tower.

LAURA: This is way bigger.

MATT: No, the tower in the Nine Hells was the
biggest thing you've ever seen tower-wise. This is

big, but imagine a 12-story obsidian tower that's
pretty thin and tall.

LAURA: Okay. I'm glad I remembered that correctly
because I was remembering it as a citadel and it's

just a tower.

TALIESIN: This is spectacular! This is great! We
have to let everybody know! Oh god, we have to let

everybody know. And I grab her and we bolt out.

LAURA: Does it sound like anything you know?

TALIESIN: No? Yes? Maybe? I don't know! I'm not
sure. This is a breakthrough. We have a

breakthrough! We have a breakthrough! I am running
to Cassandra, who I'm sure is asleep.

MATT: Yeah, most everyone's-- you guys have all
gone to bed at this point I imagine; you guys were

down there pretty late.

LIAM: Well first I drag Keyleth off to the cozy
little bathtubs that they have here in the castle

and took the opportunity-- they're quite small,
actually. And washed all of the caked-in, the last

of the caked-in blood and everything.

TRAVIS: Because they say it, it's true.

TALIESIN: We have a full Roman sauna underneath,
but that's fine, whatever you need.

ASHLEY: I took JB back and we built a fort in the
room.

MATT: And you've gone to bed?

SAM: Oh yeah, I'm asleep.

TRAVIS: I look for a book on werewolves.

MATT: Okay, make an investigation check.

TALIESIN: Natural 20, Natural 20!

TRAVIS: Natural 20!

(cheering)

TALIESIN: It's that night.

MATT: Against all odds.

TALIESIN: The trick is it requires human
sacrifice.

MARISHA: It is a full moon tonight, isn't it? Or
was it last night? When was the full moon?

MATT: You surprise yourself, Grog, going
"w-w-werewolves." There's a book that talks about the

disease of lycanthropy and were-creatures and
entities, and it's there before you and you find

it's like your own little birthday party.

TRAVIS: I take it with me.

MATT: Okay.

TALIESIN: I'm calling a meeting of the council.
I'm sending out the word. I'm telling everyone

that we have new information.

SAM: At night?!

TALIESIN: Yeah, I'm starting it now so that people
who are not here can figure out their way here.

MARISHA: Are you getting it over our earpieces?

TALIESIN: Not them. To the studying council,
anybody who's been studying the object. I'm letting

everybody know as quickly as possible. There's new
information.

MATT: All right, so that being the case, you let
Cassandra know. Cassandra goes, "My god, all right.

"Well, let me-- I think I-- hold on." She goes and
rushes back to her room and she comes back with a

small, looks like a river stone, but has what
looks to be a small rune carved into it. She takes

it and holds it and goes "Sorry to bother you, my
dear, but apparently Percival has a breakthrough

"in regards to the ziggurat and the orb. As soon as
you can, please." Then takes it and puts it into a

small pouch. "Hopefully, Allura received that and
should be arriving soon. As to Eskil, I don't know

"how to get in touch with him; he's probably well
into his sleep and he gets cranky."

TALIESIN: He'll find out in the morning. This is
good. We'll start looking with the new data as

soon as everyone gets here. This is excellent.
Excellent! Good night. Go to sleep. Why are you

awake? No! And I'm out the door. I run to Vex's
house. We're done.

MATT: All right, so you guys just go to bed?

TALIESIN: Yeah.

LAURA: I guess so. Yeah. But, wait. Actually,
Percy? Off-subject, but, when I saw Keyleth, I

mean, she was destroyed right? I mean, fucking
destroyed. Arms everywhere, limbs broken, just

terrible.

TALIESIN: Yes.

LAURA: We put her back together like we always do,
but I can't get Scanlan out of my mind. It's so

random, I know, but what if that happened to him
and we're not with him? No one's there to cast

Revivify.

TALIESIN: If he wanted to be found, he'd be found.
His daughter's there, and maybe he is possibly

smart enough to explain to her how that stone
works.

LAURA: Have you scryed on him again?

TALIESIN: Not successfully. Not since I briefly
found him and then I lost him. But I always have

people looking.

LAURA: All right. I don't know why he's on my
mind. Obviously, we have much bigger things.

TALIESIN: I think maybe bigger things will help.
It's been too quiet.

LAURA: Not good at quiet

TALIESIN: No. I mean, I've enjoyed it. This has
been great, everything, everything has been great.

This is wonderful, but I will admit I miss-- I
don't know what I miss. I miss it, though. I feel

like I'm tempting fate and I'm going to regret
everything I say right now, one day.

LAURA: I think we are, who knows what this will
lead to.

TALIESIN: Maybe we can shut it down for good.

LAURA: Yes.

TALIESIN: Maybe we're going to go find a small
black tower somewhere filled with death and

despair.

LAURA: I don't know if I'm going to be able to
sleep tonight!

TALIESIN: No.

MATT: So as you find your rest for the evening,
the morning comes. Bright, warm. The clouds that

came in for the evening, it's still a cloudy sky
and as you wake up the mist that usually takes up

the bottom of the valley and the forest floor is
beginning to burn off as the sun begins to peek

through the clouds and show little bursts of blue
above. You guys head back to the castle, where all

of you are, everyone but Keyleth. We'll say
Keyleth's still sleeping and Taryon's still

sleeping.

TALIESIN: Keyleth had a bit of day.

MATT: However, Allura is there waiting. She's
there and as you approach she goes,

"Well, isn't this a pleasant surprise?"

She rushes up and gives Vex a big hug.
She comes and takes your hand as well, Percival,

and pulls you in. "So, Cassandra told me that
there was some sort of a--"

TALIESIN: Well, Vex had a brilliant idea. Recently,
you came to a very interesting power.

LAURA: Yes, from the exalted weapon that I got
from Saundor.

MATT: "Oh, your Vestige. Yes."

LAURA: Yes, and it has the ability to shoot arrows
that see.

MATT: "I recall you telling me this, yes."

LAURA: Right, so I shot it into the orb. And I saw
through it.

MATT: "Oh." At which point you watch her whole
demeanor change and she leans in, "What did you see?"

LAURA: Fucking everything. A sky and an orb and a tower.
An obsidian tower like twelve stories tall.

MATT: Keyleth comes down for breakfast.

LAURA: Hey, Kiki. Good morning.

MARISHA: Hi, sorry. I had weird dreams.

TRAVIS: That you died?

LIAM: No, that really happened. That actually
happened yesterday.

LAURA: Destroyed landscape, whole other plane.
Very dark, very scary.

MATT: "Another plane?"

LAURA: I think. I assume.

TALIESIN: This is everything as she described it.
This is everything I could write down.

MATT: As you describe down the location she goes,
"This is certainly not a place that I know of on

"this plane."

MARISHA: My dreams are on this plane?

LAURA: Keyleth! We had a breakthrough.

MATT: "This sounds like a location that resides
somewhere in the Shadowfell."

LAURA: The Shadowfell?

TRAVIS: Wait, Shadowfell?

MATT: "The Shadowfell, yes. You know how you went
to the Feywild, which is more of an overgrown

"fey-based nature parallel to this world, yes? The
Shadowfell is the dark shadow reflection of this

"same place. It's a plane of negative energy and
darkness. A tower, you said? I have to go research

"this some more. This is good to know, but I get
the sense that perhaps this ritual was not as

"foiled as we had initially anticipated."

LAURA: Oh no.

TRAVIS: Have you been to this Shadowfell before?

MATT: "I have not been."

LAURA: Does Vecna reside there?

MATT: "I may go do some research."

LAURA: Fuck.

MATT: You watch her get a little thousand-yard
stare for a second, thinking. Her eyes are darting

around a little bit and her brain is just running
and running. "All right. Well, unfortunately, I

"can't leave until tomorrow, I can only really
transport myself once a day, but I'll immediately

"make my way to Vasselheim. That would hopefully be
able to clarify some of these questions."

LAURA: Do you need company?

MATT: "No, I can travel faster on my own."

LAURA: All right.

MATT: "Besides, I can always go ahead and bring a
friend."

LAURA: How is Kima?

MATT: Make a perception check, actually.

SAM: She's in the room.

LAURA: 21.

MATT: 21? Interesting. One thing you do catch,
though subtle, is as she has her hands folded on

one side you do see a small gold band across one
of her fingers.

SAM: She's hitched!

LAURA: Wait a minute! Did you guys get married?

MATT: "It was very small, very private, but
anyway--"

LIAM: Congratulations!

MATT: "Thank you. Sorry, this is conflicting
emotions in this moment right now. Thank you."

LAURA: When did it happen?!

(laughter)

MATT: "Naught but four months ago. It was on a whim.
We thought and discussed a lot about all the

"dangers we'd faced over the years together, and
with you and the reality of not knowing how long

"either of us have on this planet. I figured at the
very least, why not?"

LAURA: I think it's brilliant. Brilliant.

MATT: "Thank you. We were going to tell you.
There's been a lot to do in Emon. It's looking

"great, by the way. We've nearly completed. Thanks
to the help of the Lyceum and many of the mages,

"reconstruction has been rapid."

LAURA: We really should have gone there in the
last year. We need to visit Emon.

TALIESIN: We've been very busy.

LAURA: True.

MATT: Then she covers the hand and is
embarrassed.

TALIESIN: We can get you back there today, if you
think time is of the essence.

MARISHA: I was in Emon not that long ago.

TALIESIN: Why did you go to Emon?

MARISHA: I had to talk to them about constructing
the crisis orbs.

LAURA: Oh! That's true.

MARISHA: It was a lot of meetings. So many damn
meetings.

MATT: "If you could actually send me to the Lyceum
instead, and from there I can go to Vasselheim,

"but I can do my research there."

MARISHA: You want to go to the Lyceum?

MATT: "Yes."

MARISHA: Right now?

MATT: "Well, it's whenever you wish."

MARISHA: You want me to send you?

TRAVIS: I'm going to reset Keyleth's brain.

MARISHA: Oh yeah. Through the tree?

TRAVIS: I'm going to jog her memory.

MARISHA: Is there anyone else that needs to go
while I'm doing this? Because this is it for the

day. Anyone else need to go to Emon?

TALIESIN: I think we're good.

TRAVIS: Literally nobody needs to go there but
her.

MARISHA: No Kima?

MATT: Kima's not with her.

MARISHA: I just didn't know if she wanted to go
get her.

LAURA: Oh my god, Keyleth.

LIAM: You got a little bit of sleep stuff still in
your eye.

LAURA: Eye bogeys, for sure.

LIAM: Yeah, that's better.

MARISHA: I was just asking. Okay, let's go.

MATT: All right, so as you open the gate and
Allura steps through, she around with a smile.

"Thank you, Keyleth. And--"

MARISHA: I say, (whispering) 'sup, Sun Tree?
And then send her through.

MATT: (laughing) As she's trying to talk to you,
she's like, (stutters). And you just push her

through. She's like, "Whoa!"

MARISHA: Okay, bye.

MATT: (thud) And it closes.

TALIESIN: Why are you awake? Nothing. Never mind.

MATT: All right. So. What do you guys want to do?

LAURA: Well, shit! Well, what do we do now that we
know? I guess we just research?

TALIESIN: This changes everything. I'm changing
the research focus in the library specifically to

things on this subject so that we can more focus.

MATT: Okay. JB comes down with you and starts
helping catalog and pulling out books and

information.

TRAVIS: I'll help you go read, too. And I start
reading my book.

LAURA: Oh shit. Hilda. Did anybody go down to the
bakery?

SAM: She was going to come see us.

MATT: Yeah, you haven't. It's around noon now, as
all this has happened and talking with her.

TALIESIN: She was going to come to the castle.

LAURA: Yeah, but-- okay.

MATT: Tary still hasn't woken up, by the way.

SAM: I'm currently-- Doty is brushing my teeth.

TRAVIS: Brushing your teeth?

MATT: That's not true. Because eventually when you
go to check on his room, Taryon isn't there.

LAURA and MARISHA: What?

LIAM: Sam...

MARISHA: He's not going to Sam Riegel us again, is
he? Because I can't handle that right now.

LAURA: Where is Tary? Did he leave a note?

MATT: As you enter the room--

SAM (whispers) Hilda ate me.

LAURA: Oh my god, did Hilda do something?

MATT: You can see the sheet is missing. Most of
his personal belongings are gone. Doty is still

there. And Doty appears to be shut down,
nonfunctional.

LAURA: Doty? Doty! Shit!

MATT: The eyes are cold.

TALIESIN: Check the book!

LAURA: What book?

TALIESIN: Doty's book.

LAURA: Oh! I go look at Doty's book!

MATT: It's within his chest compartment.

TALIESIN: I know. I helped build this thing. Can I
figure out how to get the book to eject?

MATT: Make an investigation check.

LAURA: I'm searching around the room, looking for
any sign of Tary.

TALIESIN: That's so cocked. That's a natural 20.

MATT: Okay. Not only do you find the latch, but
you look underneath where one of the arms is.

There appears to be a small glass bead, affixed
with a piece of clay. And the bead has this

pulsing blue light on it. And you notice it there,
and it looks like it's the only thing with any

sort of life on Doty's exterior.

TALIESIN: Does that look like part of Doty?

MATT: It doesn't. It looks like something that was
pressed onto him.

LAURA: Should we take it off?

TALIESIN: Is it magical?

MATT: Make an arcana check.

TALIESIN: That's a 21.

MATT: It does appear to be magical. It is giving
some sort of consistent pulse of energy.

LAURA: Maybe don't touch it.

MATT: It looks fragile, whatever it is. The
essence of the magic that you get from it, the

nature of the effect, at least, is abjuration.

LAURA: Abjuration?

TALIESIN: I genuinely don't actually know what
this word means.

LAURA: I have no idea what that word means,
either.

SAM: I've seen it in the Player's Handbook.

LAURA: Yeah, what is it?

TALIESIN: I normally have some clue about a word.

MATT: Abjuration is one of the schools of arcane
magic.

LAURA: What kind of school is it?

MATT: (laughs) It's the alteration and harnessing
of raw arcane energy. Usually in some sort of--

there are a number of spells that fall into the
category.

LAURA: Shit. Shit, we just sent Allura away. Fuck.
Balls.

TALIESIN: Should we call everyone? Let's not call
everyone. Who should we call?

LAURA: I don't know.

TALIESIN: Let's call everyone. Has anybody seen
Tary?

LIAM: He's sleeping in, isn't he?

TALIESIN: He's not.

ASHLEY: Is he at the bakery?

LAURA: Wait, go check the bakery. Will someone go
check the bakery?

ASHLEY: I'll check the bakery.

LIAM: Where are you?

LAURA: Do I see any trace of him?

MATT: Make an investigation check again.

MARISHA: Castle?

LIAM: No, they're at Vex's house.

LAURA: 15.

TALIESIN: Can you have some coffee and come down
here, quickly?

MARISHA: Oh my god! Coffee sounds amazing to me.

LAURA: Keyleth!

MARISHA: Yeah?

TALIESIN: Yes, what?

LAURA: Focus.

TALIESIN: Three coffees.

MARISHA: Three coffees coming right up. I'll be
right over. I get three coffees and I head over.

MATT: Okay. It's hard to pick up a lot of details.
It looks like there was no struggle whatsoever. It

looks like somebody entered and picked the lock to
the room from the inside. That's all you're able

to make out. From the inside of the castle.

SAM: Oh, from the inside of the castle.

MATT: Yeah.

LAURA: Somebody that was in the castle did this?
In my house?

LIAM: Sam, why don't you just tell us where you
are?

SAM: Sure. Doty is brushing my teeth.

LAURA: Did you end up opening the thing? Can you
see Doty's book?

TALIESIN: I popped the book out, right?

MATT: You found the compartment where you (click,
creak). It opens up and the tome is there.

TALIESIN: I have my things upstairs. One second.
I'm going to get all of my tools. I have

everything on me including the cloak, because I
want to be able to absorb any magic that comes off

of what looks like possibly a bomb? Just going to
be careful. I'm going to

very gently remove the book.

MATT: You pull it out of the compartment.

TALIESIN: Flip to the last written page.

MATT: The last written page spoke of, "An evening
of curious bakery purveyors signed on to see to

"the future of goods, and to create in the name of
the great Taryon Darrington and associates. And as

"a sudden slumber comes over me, I will find myself
an evening's rest. Goodnight, Doty." And that was

the final entry.

TALIESIN: I'm waiting for Keyleth. I'm putting the
book back.

LAURA: The top sheet is gone from the bed.

TRAVIS: Yeah, because they took him away in it.

LAURA: Is it an eyelash? Do I get a wish?

ASHLEY: (whispers) Yeah.

LAURA: Wait, get it so that I can make a wish.

TALIESIN: Thankfully, we have a scry spell or
two.

MATT: Keyleth, you arrive with three coffees.

LIAM: I tag along.

MARISHA: Okay, I have two regular, one decaf no
foam--

LAURA: Keyleth, scry on Tary. Pike, did you find
anything at the bakery?

MATT: As you hurry down to the bakery, the bakery
is still closed. Nobody was there to open it.

ASHLEY: Is Hilda there?

MATT: Hilda is not there, no.

ASHLEY: I don't see anything here, Hilda's not
here.

LAURA: The bakery looks normal?

ASHLEY: The bakery looks normal.

MATT: Locked and closed, untouched since you left
it the evening before.

MARISHA: Wait, you think Doty's been
boobytrapped?

TALIESIN: Look at that. That doesn't look normal.

LIAM: I want to a take a look at that and see if
it looks like a trap, and I don't understand

magic, but if it is similar to any trigger
mechanisms that I've seen.

MATT: Make a investigation check.

LAURA: Keyleth, come out of the room with me.

LIAM: 31.

MATT: Okay, it does not appear to be a trap,
necessarily. It looks like whatever it's meant to

be triggered to do has already been triggered.

LAURA: (gasps) Somebody boobytrapped Doty. Can you
scry on Taryon? Scry on Taryon.

MARISHA: Yeah, what-- I'm sorry.

LAURA: He's missing.

MARISHA: What?

LAURA: He's missing. Somebody broke in and took
him. I go around and start asking-- no, I'm going

to stay right here. Will you scry on him? I need
to find out what happened.

MARISHA: Okay, last time I tried to scry on
Scanlan, everyone gave me

a lot of grief about it.

LAURA: Okay, Scanlan left on his own. Tary didn't.
He left Doty here. There is no way this was not

foul play.

LIAM: Do you think this thing is looking at us?
This little bead?

TALIESIN: Once everyone clears out of the room, I
will try and remove it.

MARISHA: Who is all in the room? Is it the four of
us?

LAURA: No, me and you, we went outside.

MATT: It is just Vax and Percy.

TALIESIN: I am going to try and remove it.

LIAM: Yeah, I don't think it's trapped or
anything. You probably can do that.

TALIESIN: Let's see what happens. I'm going to use
the cloak to pull it off so that I'm shielded from

it if anything happens.

MATT: Okay, you grab it, and as you pull it off,
it's fixed and as you pull it off, the bead

shatters in your hand and the blue spark fizzles
out and you watch Doty go, "Tary."

LIAM: Looks like the bead shut him down.

MATT: You get the sense that the basis of this
magic was a one-use Dispel.

LAURA: We're not in the room. You're scrying. Will
you scry?

MATT: You watch as Doty immediately starts going
"Tary?" and lifts the bed. "Tary?"

MARISHA: It'd be better if I had something of
Tary's.

MATT: Doty leaves and charges through the room and
(footsteps) into the hallway.

LAURA: Doty? Doty, come here.

MARISHA: Hey, Doty.

LAURA: Doty belonged to him. Scry with Doty.

MARISHA: What's up, bud?

MATT: Doty stops and looks. "Tary?"

MARISHA: Okay, I'm going to Professor Xavier this
shit and put my hands on Doty's little head. Come

here, bend down. Down, Doty. Doty, down. Doty,
kneel! Doty, take a knee. Doty, down.

LAURA: Doty? Will you kneel down, please? Fuck.

MARISHA: You know what? It's fine. And I'm going
to do the scry.

MATT: Okay.

LAURA: Do you know what is happening right now?

SAM: I'm getting my rogue character ready.

MATT: Keyleth. Your vision pulls back up into the
sky above the clouds. For a second, you feel a

rush of wind; you're not sure of the direction.
You feel a flash of speed and then with a blink,

all of a sudden your vision is above what appears
to be a small village along a road. And the vision

blinks once again and you're within a hallway, a
wooden low-lit hallway, and then the flash. You're

inside of a room. A wood paneling wall. You see
Taryon, unconscious and wrapped in a sheet, still

in his armor, propped against the shaded side of
the wall, while a figure stands just out of the

peripheral. A familiar voice from just out of your
range says, "It's okay, dear. We just had a bit to

"drink. Appreciate your concern." And you hear the
door close (click). Then a few footsteps, and you

watch as in the peripheral, Hilda steps in next to
Taryon, pulling the sheet from his body, revealing

him tied up from head to toe. Hilda's image
shimmers slightly and dissipates, revealing a

woman of ink-blue skin, long white hair tied into
almost a topknot ponytail. Pale silver eyes that

inspect her handiwork. Under her dark green cloak
that you see her hood fall back, you see dark

burgundy leather armor. She seems to check
Taryon's vitals, under his neck, feel for

breathing. Very methodically, and begins to loosen
some of his bindings in some places. And you hear

her voice say, "Can't have you losing too much
circulation, boy. I've got a reputation to keep."

She quickly tosses the blanket back over him after
fixing the straps and goes, "Sleep soundly, boy.

You'll be home soon enough." She stands up and
walks across the room, almost out of sight, and

sits in the chair facing him. You watch her
rummage through her satchel, pull out a cream

puff, and throw it to the side of the corner.
Pulls out a small box and begins making

something.

MARISHA: I don't know what she is making?

MATT: Make an intelligence check.

SAM: She probably bought those cream puffs and
didn't even bake them herself!

TRAVIS: It was Ralph's cream puffs.

MARISHA: Don't fuck me, Gil. Oh, okay. Just
straight intelligence?

MATT: Yeah.

MARISHA: 17.

MATT: You've seen Vex do this before. It is a
fletching kit. She is in the process of making

arrows.

MARISHA: She's making arrows?

MATT: She's making arrows in a casual
passing-her-time way. And then the vision pulls

you back (whoosh) and you're within yourself once
more.

MARISHA: (gasps)

LAURA: What did you see?

MARISHA: (shouting) Bitch! Fucking bitch! God!

LAURA: Where is he? Who has him?

MARISHA: (shouting) People wonder why we have
trust issues!

LAURA: Who, what--

MARISHA: (shouting) It's fucking Hilda! She's a
vampire or a werewolf or a lich or something. I

don't know. Don't quote me on any of this. She was
just like, I don't want your vitals going down and

why do people take everything away from us?

LAURA: Slap her across the face.

MARISHA: (yelps)

LAURA: Hey!

MARISHA: Ow!

LAURA: Okay.

MARISHA: Okay.

LAURA: Can you fucking calm down and tell me what
you saw?

LIAM: Did you see Tary-town?

MARISHA: I saw Tary.

LAURA: Is he in trouble? Is he in danger?

MARISHA: Yeah, he looked unconscious, and it was
Hilda, and she had ink-blue, sparkly skin.

MATT: Not sparkly, necessarily. Ink-blue skin,
silver eyes.

MARISHA: Ink-blue skin and long silvery hair that
was in a top long ponytail thing. Long green-- and

she had burgundy armor. He was in a wooden room,
somewhere.

LAURA: Is it close by?

MATT: Her ears were pointed.

MARISHA: In a hallway. Her ears were pointy. I
know a lot of people have pointy ears, including

myself, so I'm not judging anyone who has pointy
ears.

LIAM: Was she a drow?

MATT: You, Keyleth, who have not actually seen a
drow elf in person, really, over an extended

period of time to know much about their culture,
but through this conversation, she does appear to

be, yes.

MARISHA: She sounds like those things you have
said before. Yes.

LAURA: The drow?

MARISHA: The drow, yeah. Like us but blue skin,
white hair. And she said she doesn't want him

losing too much of his vitality, and that she was
going to take him back to where he came from and

that he was special.

LAURA: (gasps) She was bringing him home?

MARISHA: Yeah, she was bringing him home.

LAURA: To his piece of shit family?

MARISHA: To his piece of shit family!

LAURA: We have to get him. We have to help him.

MARISHA: But why is Tary special?

LAURA: He's very rich. I'm sure his family is just
looking for him.

LIAM: Yeah, he is daddy's boy.

MARISHA: I don't know. This seems like she was
interested in something other than his money.

LIAM: Well. It's irrelevant, though. We've
got to go get him.

LAURA and MARISHA: Yeah.

TALIESIN: It just means we knock her unconscious
as opposed to killing her when we get there. It

will be fun. Let's do this.

MARISHA: Do I have any idea of the hallway and the
room, of how far away it was?

MATT: It felt like some sort of roadside inn.
That's you have no idea where.

TALIESIN: Well, this we can deal with. A roadside
inn. We know were Tary comes from.

MARISHA: He could be literally anywhere within a
hundred-mile radius.

TALIESIN: We know which roads one would take to
get there from Whitestone, conveniently?

MATT: From what you know, the town of Deastok that
he comes from, which is in Wildmount. There are no

roads that go there from Whitestone because it is
across the Shearing Channel to the other

continent. Which means you have to either go by
boat-- and even then, it's probably a few hundred

miles away from Whitestone on that side of the
continent.

TALIESIN: We could do a Locate Object.

LAURA: Yeah, on his dangling earring.

MATT: It's a hundred-foot range.

LAURA: I thought it was a thousand feet range.

MATT: Sorry, a thousand-foot range.

LAURA: Which is still very, very close.

MARISHA: Or very far, when jumping off a cliff.

ASHLEY: What if he's still here?

LAURA: Okay wait, what if I use primeval
awareness-- I can't search out a drow. No, fuck.

Can I look around to see if there's any tracks or
any hint of anything that she may have dropped in

the room or anything that he might have dropped?

TALIESIN: Go check Hilda's house, as well, for
clues.

MATT: Searching the room... you searched it once
before. Looking over it with a second glance,

there doesn't appear to be any sign of anything
that she dropped. The best you can tell,

especially being a tracker, there doesn't appear
to be any sign that either of them left the room.

There was nowhere they could have gone. There is
no window that exits, then the door was picked,

and nobody saw anybody leave the room.

LAURA: She bamfed out. She's got magic. She could
be anywhere.

TALIESIN: Then why is she at an inn?

LAURA: Are we sure she was at an inn?

TALIESIN: Well, if she is at what sounds like a
waypoint, and if you can travel as far as you

want, why would you need a waypoint?

MARISHA: Actually, who is good at math? Oh, Percy!
You're good at math.

TALIESIN: I am good at math, why? What sort of
math?

MARISHA: Well, when was the last time we saw
Tary?

TALIESIN: Last night.

MARISHA: Yeah.

SAM: Train traveling...

MARISHA: Exactly. A train traveling by foot.

LIAM: A Tree Stride spell traveling. Yeah.

TALIESIN: It wasn't necessary a bamf. It might
have just been, in and out, get on a horse and

head towards--

LIAM: That's a lot of ifs, though.

LAURA: But she didn't leave the room.

MARISHA: She was making arrows.

ASHLEY: I've made my way upstairs?

MATT: Yeah, you've come back at this point now.

ASHLEY: Well, Hilda never showed up for her
interview!

(laughter)

ASHLEY: I don't think we should hire her, for one.
Where is he? Did you find him? Anything? Nothing?

TALIESIN: How far could they have gotten on
horseback? Within the reasonable--

MATT: Well, I mean. The last you saw him, it's
been probably 12 hours. On horseback, could have

gotten, I'd say, probably a little over 100 miles
or so.

TALIESIN: 100 miles. There's only so many roads
that lead out of the city. I'm pulling out a map

and I'm marking any roadside tavern that's within
100 miles of the city.

LAURA: Doty? Do you know how to find Tary?

MATT: "Doty. Taryon."

LAURA: Yes. Can you find him? Are you drawn to
him?

ASHLEY: Doty?

MATT: I know, it's one phrase.

TALIESIN: I can't make Doty do things, can I?

SAM: You can certainly try.

TALIESIN: Doty, look at me.

MATT: "Tary?"

TALIESIN: Never mind.

ASHLEY: Doty? Do you know where Taryon went?

MATT: "Tary."

ASHLEY: I feel like-- could you give him the
book?

TALIESIN: Oh. Yeah. I gave him the book back.
Yes.

ASHLEY: Could you draw something for me again?

MATT: "Tary?"

LAURA: Try it. Give him the book. Give him some
paper and a pencil.

ASHLEY: Do you know where Taryon went? Can you
draw it? Shit, I thought he listened to me.

SAM: He does.

ASHLEY: He does listen to me.

MATT: Well. The old Doty did.

SAM and LAURA: Oh fuck.

TRAVIS: And you had to lose that one.

ASHLEY: Oh, that's right, Doty. You're new. You're
new Doty.

TALIESIN: Doty, don't do that.

ASHLEY: Doty, don't do that. Doty, don't play
that.

TALIESIN: I've got a plan. I need to borrow the
scrying orb. I'm going to make a list. On a map,

I'm going to mark every roadside inn within about
200 miles.

MATT: Okay. There's a number of inns in the Turst
Fields. There's a couple at the Jorenn Village,

which you are familiar with. They might be just
outside of the range, but you put them on there as

well. Westruun, and along the road of the Silver
Cut.

MARISHA: What was that thing you said? Turns
field?

MATT: There's the Turst Fields.

MARISHA: And what was the other one?

MATT: Jorenn Village. That's where you found Percy
in prison.

TALIESIN: Okay. Where's the sun?

MATT: Right now? It's close to noon.

TALIESIN: We'll finish this and I'll give it a few
hours for the sun to go down so that I can

actually figure out what direction the inn is
facing.

MARISHA: And I couldn't try and do a nature check
to try and figure out what direction the wind was coming

from when it hit me during the scry?

MATT: The wind was less of a natural wind and more
of just your vision being shifted. It would not

have an impact whatsoever.

TALIESIN: Save the sphere. I've got a plan. In the
meantime, let's search Hilda's house.

LAURA: Yeah. Okay. We go and search Hilda's
house.

MATT: Okay. As you get to Hilda's home, you look
inside. It's dark on the interior. You knock.

There's no response.

LAURA: Does Trinket smell-- We go in-- Wait!
Sorry. Check for traps. Right.

LIAM: 22. No, 24.

MATT: 24. It is locked, but it does not appear to
be trapped.

LIAM: All right. It's not locked anymore. 32.

MATT: Okay, yeah. It's a simple lock. As you walk
inside, you see the candle that was lit the other

night has melted entirely and the wax is dripping
off the side of the small bench

where it was laid on.

LIAM: One more in here. Is there any bullshit
hiding around in here? 29.

MATT: 29. There's no bullshit, necessarily, but
there is that pile of linens in the corner. You

see it shifting slightly, and as you pull off the
side you see there, bound, Hilda. She's like,

(muffled noises).

LIAM: All right, Whisper out, and I cut her free.

MATT: "Oh!"

LIAM: You all right?

MATT: "I'm all right."

LIAM: What happened?

MATT: (stuttering) "Naught but a few days ago,
this blue-skinned woman came, and she seemed nice

"enough, and she asked me questions. She didn't
hurt me or nothing,

"she just asked a lot of questions."

LIAM: And you've met us before? No?

MATT: "No. I've seen you around town. People talk
about you, saying what you've

"done for the people..."

ASHLEY: Do you bake cream puffs?

MATT: "I have before, yeah."

LAURA: Do you want to work in a bakery? Just
kidding. We were in the middle of something; we'll

talk to you later!

(laughter)

LAURA: Wait, does Trinket smell anything having to
do with-- can he smell a different smell? Can he

smell the evil Hilda?

MATT: Make a perception check with advantage for
Trinket.

LIAM: That's good. That's also pretty good.

LAURA: Perception? That is 24!

MATT: Okay, Trinket goes, (sniffing, grunting) and
picks up what appears to be some sort of a scent.

LAURA: Yeah! Where did it go?

MATT: Not really a bloodhound-style scent, but a
decent scent. Guiding him around over the next

hour or so, and trying to go in the areas you know
he might have been, the last strong scent is in

Taryon's room, and there's no trail from there.

LAURA: Motherfucker. This is terrible. I feel like
we did this to him.

TALIESIN: We're going to get him back. Now.

LAURA: He's just so vulnerable.

TALIESIN: Right. Do I have enough of an angle on
the sun now, where this should be doable?

MATT: To?

TALIESIN: Figure out which way is north, south,
east, and west if I try and scry on Tary?

MATT: Sure. Yeah, you gauge the sun in the sky.

TALIESIN: All right. Kiki, let's do this.

MARISHA: Am I helping you? Are we doing this
together?

TALIESIN: Well, you're giving me the orb, since
you have the orb.

MARISHA: I'm giving you the orb.

TALIESIN: And I'm going to give it back to you
when I'm done.

MARISHA: Yeah, I feel like you did this before.

TALIESIN: I did.

MARISHA: Successfully.

TALIESIN: Yes.

MARISHA: I underestimated you. Do you need my
help?

TALIESIN: Sure.

MARISHA: Okay!

MATT: All right.

TALIESIN: I'm going to try and glean as much
information about the nature of the landscape

around the person that I'm focusing on as humanly
possible.

MATT: Okay.

MARISHA: And I'm going to try and figure out a
discerned direction?

TALIESIN: Help with type of plants, whether or not
it's getting south, east, west. Not north. Most

probably south.

MATT: Okay. So, before you do that. You take the
orb and sit down and concentrate, and Keyleth aids

you in setting up this small ritual. As you close your eyes
and focus on Taryon once more, your vision shifts

and seem to be jettisoned across hundreds of miles
within a second. No direction at the moment; it's

too much of a blur of color and light and movement
until it comes to a halt, and there you see

Taryon, somewhat jostled by the spell kicking in
and the momentum, you see him thrown over what

appears to be the back of a horse, just
(hoofbeats).

TALIESIN: Which way is the shadow of the horse?

MATT: Taryon, you come to consciousness ever so
slightly, and looking down, you see hooves

clattering on the ground behind you. You glance
around. Percival, I want you to go ahead and make

a nature check.

LAURA: Come on! They're going to Wildmount.

TALIESIN: This is not my strong suit. That'll do,
though! 22.

MATT: 22. The skies here grow gray with clouds as
the mountain spire-peppered landscape is broken up

by far-reaching forests and river-traced glades.
The air appears cold, as the winter here seems to

cling to the countryside for a majority of the
year, a mixture of gloom and beauty as unique as it is

impressive. That's about as much as you can glean
from this standpoint. It's very blurred on the

outskirts. It seems similar to a harsher
Whitestone landscape. This is definitely further

east. Looking at placement of the sun in the sky,
it's further to the west.

TALIESIN: They've gone east. They're still on the
northern end of the continent, if they're on the

continent at all.

MATT: No, any further north from here and they'd
be in the water. For the time they've traveled,

they're east on Wildmount somewhere, you can
gather.

TALIESIN: East on Wildmount. Is there any other
sign? Can I see a tree?

MATT: Unfortunately, the scrying location, the
actual orb that you see from is very limited in

scope. The fact that you're able to even make out
the details that I told you are because you're

seeing color and images and shapes in the
distance. You get a vague idea of landscape, but

it's all very blurred.

TALIESIN: Is it giving me any sense of anywhere
I've been before?

MATT: You have not really traveled length and
breadth of anywhere outside of Tal'Dorei, so no.

What you do see, though, is on the front of the
horse, you see the same cloaked figure riding the

horse. Glances back over the shoulder and you can
see what appears to be a pale-skinned human woman,

looks in her twenties or so, but same outfit. And
looks back and checks on him. He's stirring a

little bit, and she glances back and goes, "Be
patient. We're almost there." (hoofbeats)

TALIESIN: That'll do.

MARISHA: Am I with him in the vision?

MATT: No, you're watching him as his eyes glaze
over for a moment.

TALIESIN: Well, that'll do.

LAURA: Where is he?

TALIESIN: They're taking him home.

LAURA: Well, yes, we knew that!

TALIESIN: They're on horseback. They're already
quite far... I don't know precisely where they

are, but if we can make our way to--

LAURA: Wildmount.

LIAM: Yeah. What's our fastest method there?

TALIESIN: They're going by horse. They'll probably
be there sooner rather than later,

would be my guess.

LAURA: You don't know where any trees are in
Wildmount?

MARISHA: The closest tree that we've ever been to
was the one we used to get to Draconia, but I

don't know how close Draconia is to him. I can try
and scry on where they are and look and see for

the biggest tree myself and pop out right there.

TALIESIN: Well, the city that Tary's from--

MATT: Deastok.

TALIESIN: It would be best to go there and cut
them off. We know that they're coming from the

west. There's got to be a way to get there.

MARISHA: Can I scry on Deastok?

MATT: You can only scry on locations that you've
seen or been to.

MARISHA: And people that I have connections to.

MATT: People you can scry on with certain levels
of knowing them or hearing about them and such.

TALIESIN: How far is it?

MATT: I'll double-check real fast because I don't
want to get a lot of anger on the internet.

Instead of targeting a creature, you can choose a
location you have seen before

as the target of the spell.

MARISHA: Instead of choosing a creature. But I
could try and scry on Tary again

and get a nearby tree?

MATT: It's only a ten-foot radius to see anything
clearly around the center, so you'd have to be

pretty close to a tree for you to make it out
enough.

MARISHA: Do we have any images or any books here
on Deastok that I can look at and then try and

scry on, and then after I have the knowledge?

LAURA: Doty's book? He might have written some
things about it.

LIAM: Gilmore's been many places. He might have
something from there.

TALIESIN: How far away is it? How far away is the
city from us? How many days on horseback?

MATT: Let's see. From Whitestone directly, it
would be probably about-- you can't cross the

channel on horseback, but if you were to start at
the other side of the Shearing Channel on

horseback and ride, let's say 12 hours a day, you
could probably get there in about four days. Three

to four days.

TALIESIN: So if we misted...

MARISHA: It still wouldn't be enough time.

LAURA: No, just bamf there.

MARISHA: We have to bamf there.

LIAM: Two days. Go to Emon, talk to Shaun. He's
been everywhere.

LAURA: Scry on her again!

TALIESIN: Draconia. How close would Draconia be to
this?

MARISHA: Yeah, do we know how close Draconia is?

MATT: The Dremoth Ravine, with the remains of
Draconia, would probably be about 150, 200 miles

from it.

TALIESIN: That's not bad. We could misty from
Draconia.

MARISHA: Yes, we could.

LAURA: Sure.

TALIESIN: But you can't Tree Stride today, can
you?

LAURA: Oh, you already used it on Allura.

MARISHA: Is that the same day? I thought we
slept.

TALIESIN: No, that was the same day.

MATT: Well, you used it once today. You had a full
night's sleep, got all your spells back, and then

you sent Allura off once today.

LAURA: So we have two.

MARISHA: So that was today. I could do it again,
and then I can Misty Step us, and then I would be

out of my 6th, 7th, and 8th-level spells. I would
be burning higher spell slots to get us there, but

I could do it.

TALIESIN: We could be there-- We could be there in
hours, if need be.

LAURA: Let's do it!

MARISHA: You have no books here on Deastok? None
in Whitestone?

LAURA: Let's look in the Doty book real fast.

MARISHA: Yeah.

MATT: Okay. There's a lot of writing in here.

LAURA: Towards the beginning.

MATT: Towards the beginning, it talks about
Deastok. It talks about the frustrations of the

small-town life and the open world around and all
the adventures they're seeking there. It's not

written to show any detail or interest about the
city where he grew up.

MARISHA: (groans) All right, to Draconia! Let's
go!

TALIESIN: Gear up, everyone.

MARISHA: Everyone, the Uber will be here in five
minutes.

MATT: All right, you guys gather your materials,
make your way to the Sun Tree, and Keyleth, you

open Transport Via Plants to the exterior of the
Dremoth Ravine in the ruins of Draconia. And

that's where we'll take a break!

LAURA: Why can't anybody be nice?

TALIESIN: She was nice! She was tied up by a bad
person! She was tied up by some elfy Boba Fett.

She was fine.

MATT: Well, if you're really frustrated with how
untrustworthy this NPC is,

you can thank chat for it!

ASHLEY: Thank the chat?

LAURA: The chat did this to us?

SAM: Fuck you, chat!

LAURA: You turned our own bakery against us! You!

ASHLEY: They know.

TALIESIN: To be fair, carbs are never really your
friend, are they?

TRAVIS: They are in workouts!

MATT: All right. We're going to take a quick
break. Before we go, guys, we have the giveaway

for this. This looks to be a Katalox dice tray
here, which is pretty awesome, with a leather

interior from our good friends at Wyrmwood. We're
going to go ahead and, because I feel like I have

to, the code for this contest in the Twitch chat
is Samsshirt, one word, with two mid-s's.

S-A-M-S-S-H-I-R-T. Sam's shirt.

TALIESIN: Sam's shirt.

MATT: So find your way over to the Twitch chat,
put that in there for the chance to win this

awesome giveaway! All right, guys. We'll see you
in a few minutes!

[break]

MATT: Hey guys, welcome back to Critical Role. We
have our winner in the chat. Tonight's winner is

FormaldehydeG. You win. Denova will contact you
via a whisper to get your contact and shipping

information, and you will get your awesome prize
of your Wyrmwood box.

LAURA: (mocking) Prize.

MATT: (Christopher Walken voice) Prize.

LIAM: Don't do it.

MATT: Oh god, I did it. I'm sorry. It's my fault.
Right. So, jumping back into the game. You guys

have learned of the current whereabouts of Taryon
Darrington. Proceeding in the direction of which

he is getting transported. Which, let's go ahead
and take a moment here, actually. Taryon, as

you've come to consciousness on the back of this
horse and you hear this woman, cloaked and riding

in front of you, tell you, "We're almost there,"
and then (hoofbeats). You're hopping around on the

back, bound. You try and move your arms and legs, and
they're tied tightly.

SAM: Doty! Doty. I'm having a dream again. Doty?
Oh boy. Ugh. Hello? You there, driver person!

Hello?

MATT: The head looks back over. "Oh! You've
awakened. Isn't that very interesting?"

SAM: What's going on? Where are you taking me?
Have I won a lottery of some sort?

MATT: "You could say that, perhaps. Yes. I have a
contract to bring you back to Deastok, and I am

"fulfilling that contract."

SAM: Oh no. Did my father pay you to do this?

MATT: "Howaardt Darrington? Because if so, yes."

SAM: He is.

MATT: "Then that is where you are going."

SAM: I will pay you whatever he has promised you,
double, if you let me go right now.

MATT: She shakes her head for a second. "I've
looked through your belongings. You do not have

"the money you speak of."

SAM: I will write you a check and I will guarantee
it with the name Taryon Darrington.

MATT: She laughs and turns back and focuses more
on the horse riding.

SAM: Damn it. (sighs) Money is so good. Not when
you don't have it. I have armor. I have jewels

that are worth a lot. Please, you don't want to do
this. Please.

Just let it go and no one will get hurt.

MATT: She turns back over her shoulder. "The money
is one thing. But another is one's reputation.

"When I take a contract, I fulfill it. I have not
failed. I will not fail. So you are going home.

"My apologies." (hoofbeats) And goes right back.

SAM: I respect her so much. (sighs)

TRAVIS: (mouthing) What's her name?

SAM: I don't ask people names, friend. (laughs)

MATT: All right. So what are the rest of you guys
doing?

LAURA: Running around like crazy people.

MARISHA: We bamfed through the tree, right?

MATT: Right. Yep. So you gathered your elements
and you transport through one of the trees that

you created on the outside of the Dremoth Ravine.

MARISHA: That's right. We grew them a forest.

MATT: You did.

MARISHA: Oh my god. That's right.

LIAM: The last time we came here, we came flying
out of a tree on an angle.

MATT: On an angle, yeah. You do not come through
that same tree.

MARISHA: Off the edge of a cliff. (laughs
nervously) It's a theme.

MATT: Sorry.

LAURA: All right, so which way is Wildmount?

TALIESIN: Northeast?

MATT: From this area, it would be northeast, yes.

LAURA: Let's go.

TALIESIN: So I say we head north first. Find the
main road.

MATT: You're on Wildmount the continent, but
you're heading more towards the city of Deastok,

which is on the outskirts of the Dwendalian
Empire.

TALIESIN: We did know that they were on a road
headed west. Heading east. Which means if we head

north and then the minute that we hit that main
road start heading in that direction, we might

even pass them on the way and be able to identify
a horse.

LAURA: Especially if we're in like fart form.

MATT: All right, so you guys are going into your
Wind Walk form?

LIAM: Before we do. Percy, do you know anything
about this country we're in? Anything?

MATT: Make a history check.

TALIESIN: Not really my area of expertise, but 22.
History check, correct?

MATT: Yes.

TALIESIN: 22.

MATT: This area of Wildmount known as Wynandir is
divided into two different kingdoms, essentially.

This one you're going towards is called the
Dwendalian Empire. This is the strongest and the

most functional empire this side of Exandria. It
is a tyranny. There is a king, and the law is

ruled absolutely through this king. It is a
functional economy. Its people aren't mistreated,

from what you've read, though it is-- I want to
say, it's very Prussian. People work, people live,

people die.

LAURA: Harsh?

MATT: It's a harsh environment. It's a colder
environment. Whereas the center of Tal'Dorei is a

lot of fields and rolling hills across the
midsection framed by mountains, across Wildmount,

it is a smattering of mountain ranges and spires
throughout, and chunks of forest. It is a much

harsher environment, as far as the topography and
the biomes than Tal'Dorei, and as such, the

pockets where people do live, they live as well as
they can amongst a very oppressive environment.

TALIESIN: What's the name of the city, one more
time?

MATT: Deastok.

MARISHA: Oh, this is Deastok. Okay.

TALIESIN: Deastok. So it's a bit Prussian?

MATT: Yeah.

TALIESIN: Okay. That will do. So don't expect a
lot of hospitality, and let's just have our

business, get it done, and get out.

LIAM: Also, we can't talk when we're farts, so
when we get there, what's the plan, plan man?

TALIESIN: We're going to fly up until we see the
main road. We see the main road, we're going to

take it towards the city. We're going to stay a
bit high. If anyone spots a lone horse and a rider

with a human-sized package on the back, we're
going to do a little spin-around, spin-around,

spin-around, and we're all going to park ourselves
maybe a quarter of a mile up the road.

ASHLEY: I like that idea.

LIAM: What happens if we don't see the person on
the horse? What happens? We just land right

outside the gates and ring the bell?

TALIESIN: We land inside the gates.

LIAM: Okay, but that seems a little dicey if we
want to work out what we're going to do. We're

just going to appear and say howdy?

TALIESIN: From what I know of this city, it's not
a locked city, is it?

MATT: It's not a locked city. There are perimeter
walls and there are gates that can close in case

of times of war. You do know that there is a
strong military presence in most cities and there

are patrols that often make sure that peace is
kept.

TALIESIN: So we can walk in if we need to, but
let's not make any waves unless we need to.

MATT: It's a somewhat militaristic nation. It's
to the point where you don't know, or at least

have not heard, of any widespread abuses of power.
At least, not on the outskirt cities. You don't

know that much about the political structure
there, other than the fact that it is a tyranny.

But it has a strong standing military and they do
exercise it in times of peace as a form of law

enforcement.

LIAM: You and Tary are thick as thieves, now. How
plugged in is his dad?

LAURA: Super. Right? I mean, he's not the most
powerful guy, but he does well for himself. He

runs an area.

MATT: The way Taryon talks about his father is he
is a land baron in Deastok. He owns a number of

plots and homes and farms and collects taxes on
them. His family has been doing this for at least

a generation or two and has made quite a fortune
off of it.

LAURA: And his sister's name is?

MATT: His sister's name is Maryanne.

LAURA: Maryanne. That's creative. Okay. All
right.

LIAM: Yes, Maryanne Darrington.

LAURA: And his mom is Mariya. (laughs) All right.

TRAVIS: Mariya and Howaardt?

LAURA: Mariya and Howaardt Darrington.

MATT: Yes.

LIAM: All right.

LAURA: See, I know his mother's name!

MATT: All right. Do you go ahead and accept
Keyleth's Wind Walk? All right. With a moment of

concentration, you all convert yourselves into
plumes of smoke, mist. By the way, did you leave

Doty behind or take Doty with you?

MARISHA: We can't take him with us.

MATT: Yeah. Okay, then. Doty is back in
Whitestone.

LAURA: I mean, yeah, he doesn't respond to us.

MARISHA: I mean, we would have had to have had--

TRAVIS: Just say no.

MARISHA: No, we didn't.

MATT: I was just reconfirming. All right, then.
So, you guys convert to your--

LAURA: I can't put him in the necklace! He won't
go in the necklace! I tried before.

He doesn't go.

LIAM: Who are you talking to?

MATT: You all coast in the shapes of mist into the
moist, freezing air over the Dremoth Ravine and

head northward. You guys move as a cluster of
small plumes of moisture. As you look forward over

the next-- 300 feet a round, at double speed--

LAURA: Carry the three.

MATT: Yeah.

TALIESIN: Doing air math; it's great. Nothing
quite like air math.

MATT: Once again, this is twice in an episode
where it's magical-fantasy-realm physics.

Somewhere in the middle, you find a fun narrative.
I'd say within probably an hour and a half to two

hours of travel, because you guys are going pretty
fast, you eventually come upon a very well-ridden

and apparent pathway that goes from east to west.
The topography does seem at least to be somewhat

in line with what you saw the brief time that you
scryed upon Taryon.

TALIESIN: I'm just heading the direction--

LAURA: That smoke plume definitely--

ASHLEY: That smoke plume knows where it's going.

TALIESIN: I can't hear you.

MATT: So you guys all continue heading east.

LAURA: Do we have normal mental thoughts when
we're smoke plumes? Or do we just think in terms

of (wind noises)?

MATT: No, you think normally. You're still
mentally you. You just can't talk. If you do talk,

it comes out as (blows raspberry).

LIAM: (blows raspberry)

MATT: There you go.

LAURA: What does it sound like if you laugh?

LIAM and TALIESIN: (airy laughter)

LAURA: Sorry. We're going.

MATT: As you guys continue pushing east...

TALIESIN: I'm going to be keeping an eye out for
anybody on the road.

LAURA: Ditto.

MATT: Perception check from the two of you guys.

TALIESIN: 12.

LAURA: 22.

MATT: Okay. You see what looks to be one small
caravan, a series of carts that are heading west

along the path. That's the only thing that you see
at the moment. You, Vex, after a couple more hours

of travel in an eastern direction you see what
looks to be a big, thick forest. The forest itself

is pretty dense in this area, and there are
pockets where it's open and you get a little more

of a green field. You've been traveling over a
larger green field area, so you start hitting

where the forest gets thicker and thicker. The
pathway carves through this forest. Then a ways

ahead, you see what appears to be a large hill
that rises up, and then around the hill, the

forest has been cleared and you can see what
amounts to acres and acres and acres of farmland

that circles almost like a disk around this large
central hill. The top of the hill is cleared off,

and there you can see what appears to be a
metropolitan city. A large town, if you will. You

can see what appear to be-- actually, no. You're
not quite close enough. So that's what you see.

You see this village on top of this cleared hill
surrounded by farmland and then surrounded by

forest and what appear to be some broken mountain
ranges maybe a few miles out each direction.

TALIESIN: I keep skirting around, looking for a
lone horseman.

MATT: Okay.

LAURA: Can I fly down and see if I see any signs
along the road?

Any markers saying what city it is?

MATT: Okay. You cruise down and begin riding a
little closer to the surface. With your general,

even passive perception, you do catch what appears
to be-- there are a few splinter trails that seem

to be the perimeter on the outside of where the
forest leads inward and heads along the outskirts

of the tree line. There you do see a sign. The
arrow leads forward towards what is called the

Siren Green Forest, and then eastward towards
Deastok. You gather that the large town on this

carved hilltop seems to be the town in question.

LAURA: But nobody on horseback?

MATT: You don't see anybody on horseback at the
moment, no.

TALIESIN: (hiccups)

TRAVIS: (laughing) Is that the cloud hiccups?

TALIESIN: I'm going to scout around a little
closer to the ground and see if there's anybody.

Maybe any of the paths off the main road where
someone might be hiding and just run through the

trees looking for anything. I'm searching around a
little bit. I know we're close to the city, and

I'm keeping an aerial view because we should be
able to see an awful lot from high up.

MATT: You do. You see hundreds of acres of
farmland that surround this large hill. It's built

all across the top of the hill then built along
the front side of it. You can see a number of

paths that zigzag down. Elements of it sprawl a
bit into the farm, but the majority of the

metropolis is on top of the hill itself, and then
the farmland around it. You do see, as you get

closer and skirt the sides, there are patrols. You
see men on horseback with crossbows slung over the

side that do perimeters. Some of them are weaving
independently through the fields, keeping an eye

on people who are in the process of harvesting.

TALIESIN: No interest of getting anywhere near
that.

MATT: The rest of you guys continue heading east
towards the town, or are you following?

TALIESIN: I'm popping back on the road.

MATT: Okay. Percival catches up to you guys.

LAURA: At this point, I feel like our option is
only to go towards the house, if we can find his

family's keep.

TRAVIS: Did we beat him here?

LAURA: I don't know. There's no way to know.

TALIESIN: We can land and have a conversation.

LAURA: Yeah.

MATT: Okay. So you guys (whoosh) make your way to
the-- where do you want to land?

LAURA: Maybe the edge of town, into the Siren Gate
Forest.

MATT: Okay. So you find the edge of the tree line
before it opens up into the farmland surrounding

the city. As you all take a moment to concentrate,
your forms congeal once more into your physical

selves and you are able to discuss as you prefer.

LAURA: Well! Anybody see anything?

ASHLEY: Is it possible she could've put some kind
of covering over them?

LAURA: Like we did with Whitestone or something?

ASHLEY: Yeah.

TALIESIN: Yes.

LIAM: Many things are possible, though.

MARISHA: Can we still see their tracks if we went
back and looked? That would be a ranger question.

LAURA: I mean, it's just horse tracks, but I can
look. Horse tracks on a main road. Unless Tary is

thinking and he's leaving something behind so that
we can track him.

TALIESIN: Tary, can you hear us?

LAURA: Tary? Good idea, Percy!

MATT: Nothing at the moment.

LIAM: Have to be within 500 feet.

MARISHA: I could try Commune With Nature, but it
only extends for a few miles.

LAURA: I'm going to cast Locate-- oh, should I do
that? Should I waste it right now?

MARISHA: How long does it last?

LAURA: Ten minutes. I'm going to try. Wait, a
thousand feet. That's not very far, compared to

where the city is.

TRAVIS: A few miles is better.

MARISHA: Plus, that's a concentration spell. The
mist form is my concentration spell, so we should

be able to do both at once, correct? If we move
quickly while she has her Locate Object on?

MATT: Yeah.

LAURA: Okay. Let's do that.

TALIESIN: All right!

LAURA: I'm going to try to locate his dangly
earring.

ASHLEY: Dangly bits.

TALIESIN: His dangly bit.

LAURA: His penis!

ASHLEY, TRAVIS, and MARISHA: Penis!

TALIESIN: His Tary.

MARISHA: (giggling) His Tary!

LIAM: Going down to Tary-town.

SAM: Matt's doing something.

LAURA: I know, it's something.

MATT: Okay. I was making sure the Wind Walk
wouldn't affect any concentrations.

TRAVIS: He's doing trigonometry.

TALIESIN: Squaring his hypotenuse.

MATT: And you're attempting Locate Object on
Taryon's earring, you said?

LAURA: Yes.

MATT: Okay.

TALIESIN: His dangly bit.

MATT: You focus and concentrate. It does not pick
up within a thousand feet of you.

LAURA: Okay. So we're going to misty form towards
the city and see if we can...

TALIESIN: Yeah.

MATT: Okay. (whoosh) You all head back up into the
sky, and you can see now the clouds in this

vicinity are growing darker. It looks like it's
probably going to rain

in the next few hours or so.

LAURA: Okay. So we're less noticeable?

MATT: The temperature right now means it might
even sleet; you're not sure. You make your way,

coasting over the farmland. Looking down, you can
see it's all segmented and all marked off with

various colored fences. Everything is really
well-organized here, and all the land has been

divided. You eventually make your way towards the
base of the hill and cruise up to the outskirts of

the city, where you see the large stone walls that
encircle elements of the outskirts, and you see

where each one of these walls opens up to some
sort of a pathway. There is a large metallic gate

that is currently separated and lifted up in the
back that can be slammed and closed and shut in

case you need to keep anybody in or out.

LAURA: Ping!

MATT: You're getting no ping yet.

LAURA: No pings? Okay.

MATT: You guys are now over the wall now, these
six plumes of mist coasting above.

What do you do?

MARISHA: Do we backtrack?

LAURA: We're over his family's keep?

MATT: You don't know what his family's keep looks
like.

MARISHA: But we're over the city.

MATT: You're over the city right now, yeah.

MARISHA: So we theoretically haven't intercepted
them yet.

MATT: No.

TALIESIN: I'm going to try and motion everyone to
follow me in a circle around the city and then

back out the front gate.

LAURA: Okay.

MATT: Okay. You move pretty fast. It's a big
radius to go around the entire wall perimeter of

the city. At your full speed, I'd say you can do a
full pass in about 15 minutes or so. That's a

careful cruising through. Nothing seems to ping.

LAURA: I think we beat him. Maybe we beat him.

SAM: Oh Matt, I forgot to tell you. When I left
home, I left a large eternal flame burning on my

keep's roof. Is that okay?

MATT: Oh, right! Good to clarify! No. All right.
So.

TALIESIN: I don't know. Maybe we beat her. I'm
going to try and motion everyone--

LAURA: Back out to the fucking woods?

TALIESIN: Just a little. Not far.

MATT: Back out to the woods? Okay.

TALIESIN: Back onto the road. And off the road so
that we're not super visible.

MATT: So you're heading back over the farmland,
back to the outskirts of the Siren Gate Forest

into the tree line?

TALIESIN: About an hour's walk to the city is
where I want to put us.

LIAM: To where we can see the city and see the
road coming to it.

MATT: All right, cool. So you guys find your way
there. You wait for a moment to make sure the

patrols aren't anywhere nearby, and you turn back
into your physical selves.

TALIESIN: Well, we've either beat them here or
she's really clever.

LAURA: Or she took off all of his clothing and
he's riding around naked.

MARISHA: But she would still theoretically have
his clothing. It would still exist.

LAURA: Yeah, hopefully.

LIAM: What do you think, you think we should camp
out here for a while and keep an eye on the road

for a day or two? See if we can intercept? And if
they never show up, then we need to figure out

going into the city.

TALIESIN: Do we have a way of scrying one more
time before the day is up?

MARISHA: I do!

LAURA: Okay, then let's scry one more time and see
if we beat them.

MARISHA: I can do one of two things. I can either
scry on them, or I can do a

Commune With Nature spell.

LAURA: Scry!

MARISHA: All right. Scry!

MATT: All right. Your vision shifts once more to
Taryon, who uncomfortably, like "Ow, ow, ow" on

the back of this horse a little bit, and as you
start audibly making a pained sound, a hand grabs

the back of where the ropes are entwined and
shifts you in the back of the seat to be a little

more comfortable.

SAM: Oh, thank you!

MATT: No response from her. Still riding on the back
of the horse. It's getting darker now, and you can

see the clouds are still a little pushing towards
that stormy look that you saw when you were in the

city. So they're still on the road. They're still
traveling.

TALIESIN: But it's the road that we've...

MATT: Seems familiar.

MARISHA: Is the sun in the same direction that
we're heading?

MATT: Yes. The sun's more westward at this point.

MARISHA: Okay.

TALIESIN: So we could, in theory, mist low to the
ground on this road in that direction, and in

theory catch up with them.

MARISHA: And he's conscious. Which is good. He's
still alive.

LAURA: And he has his clothing on.

MARISHA: Yeah!

LAURA: Good. That's good.

MARISHA: We won't see his dangling bits.

TALIESIN: Just the one.

MARISHA: Just the one.

ASHLEY: Should we mist that way?

TALIESIN: I say we mist that way.

LIAM: And intercept him.

ASHLEY: I like that idea.

LAURA: Yeah, let's intercept them.

MATT: Okay. So you guys go back into mist form
(whoosh) and begin coasting westward along the

path. You travel for about ten minutes before Vex
and Vax, you pick up what looks to be a small dark

shape on the road.

LIAM and LAURA: (whoosh)

MATT: Okay, so what do you do?

LAURA: We're trying to signal everyone!

LIAM: Is there forest on the sides of the road
from where we are?

MATT: No, you traveled away from the forest now.
You're in open fields.

LIAM: So open fields and roads. Shite. Okay.

LAURA: Oh! But wait! Turn back into-- wait--

MATT: You can't talk.

LAURA: I turn back into a thing!

MATT: So you go and land. Vex lands and takes a
minute to concentrate and

go back to her physical form.

LAURA: They're up ahead! Maybe we should just bamf
here, be solid. I can disguise the landscape and

we can ambush her!

TALIESIN: All right.

LAURA: So I do that.

TRAVIS: Should we set a fallback?

MARISHA: You guys, does this make us highway
bandits? Are we highway bandits?

LAURA: As she's saying that, I start using--

MATT: You have about a minute until she gets to
you right now, by the way. You're able to see the

horse traveling a little above the road, so
they're almost upon you.

LAURA: Oh god. What do we do? She knows all of
us.

TALIESIN: I'm going to start making my way a
decent distance and running a little bit off the

road, I'm going to try and find some cover and get
ready to injure a horse.

LAURA: Who wants to stand in the middle of the
road?

LIAM: And what's on the sides of the road? Is it
tall grass, bald?

MATT: It's maybe knee-high grass with sections of
bald. The landscape here, outside of the farmland

and the forest that you can see, looks a little
hard and badlands-ish. Scrubland.

TRAVIS: I'm going to go 200, 300 yards back
towards the city, just in case

they manage to get through.

MATT: Okay. So you're getting down, you're doing
that...

LIAM: I'm going to get into some grass, as close
to the road as I can.

LAURA: I bamf Trinket out! And we get in the grass
and stealth.

MATT: Okay. Roll a stealth check. Disadvantage for
Trinket.

LAURA: I cast Pass Without a Trace!

MARISHA: Oh, cool.

LAURA: Natural 20!

MATT: Nice. And for Trinket, with disadvantage
because he's a big bear.

LIAM: Oh that's a good one.

LAURA: Oh, he got a 19, which is a crit for him!
That sucks. 19!

MATT: Well, it's not a crit. That's only on
attacks.

LAURA: Oh. Well, still.

ASHLEY: It's a critical stealth!

MATT: All righty.

LAURA: Plus ten!

MARISHA: Oh wait, did you want someone in the
middle of the road?

ASHLEY: I'll stand in the middle of the road.

TRAVIS: Unassuming.

MARISHA: Unassuming, okay. I'm going to go into
crow form. (caws)

ASHLEY: Maybe I can act like I'm an old woman
trying to cross the road.

MATT: So you go into crow form.

MARISHA: I'm going to aid to her bird lady
aesthetic.

MATT: Stealth roll, Percy?

TALIESIN: Stealth roll?

MATT: And stealth roll for you, too, Vax.

LIAM: 37.

TRAVIS: Do drows have magic sight or anything?

LAURA: I don't know!

LIAM: It's a reliable talent, in fact.

TALIESIN: Stealth roll is-- oh that's not bad.
21.

LAURA: Plus ten!

TALIESIN: Plus ten. 31!

MATT: Okay. Grog's a ways back.

TRAVIS: Not stealthing.

TALIESIN: And I'm getting down. I'm preparing for
the shot.

LAURA: Ditto!

ASHLEY: I'm going to pull up my cloak and slowly
start crossing.

TALIESIN: I'm also going to activate the secondary
mechanism in the Diplomacy glove.

MATT: Okay.

MARISHA: I follow Pike and peck at her bread
crumbs as she crosses the road.

MATT: Okay! All right, so as this is happening,
and this is a really fast rush over, rush over,

get into places, and you watch as the horse has
galloped (hoofbeats). You have Pike in the middle

of the road, dressed the same in memory.

TRAVIS: I have to pee. It's like hide and go seek.
The waiting.

MATT: And you watch as the horse (hoofbeats) goes
off the path and begins to make a wide circle.

LAURA: Motherfucker! She's going around us?

MATT: Seemingly, yeah.

ASHLEY: Excuse me! Ma'am?

MATT: Full gallop burst.

MARISHA: I take off in crow form.

TALIESIN: I was actually going to-- the second she
started to leave the road, I take a shot.

MATT: At?

TALIESIN: At the horse's legs.

MATT: All right.

LAURA: We'll heal it!

MATT: Go ahead and make an attack with
disadvantage.

TALIESIN: Disadvantage?

MATT: Because you're aiming specifically for the
legs.

TALIESIN: Can I burn a grit for it?

MATT: Oh, you do technically have an actual--
yeah, so you will not have disadvantage on this.

TALIESIN: I'll burn a grit for this. This is worth
a grit.

LIAM: Horse killing is a feat you took, right?

MARISHA: We're gods, remember?

TRAVIS: Yeah. Remember that?

TALIESIN: That's not great, but it's not bad. 20.

MATT: 20 will hit. So what's the effect on that
one, again?

TALIESIN: That's a strength saving throw or
prone.

MATT: What's the DC?

TALIESIN: 20.

MATT: So you watch. No gunshot. Complete silence
as you all begin to maneuver. You watch as the

horse suddenly (neighs) and goes ass over tea
kettle forward, jettisoning both Taryon and the

rider from the horse into a neat roll. Since you
have not moved, Tary, you make a full spill,

skittering across the ground.

SAM: (screams)

MATT: You suffer ten points of bludgeoning
damage.

TRAVIS: What about the horse. Does he fall off?

MATT: No, the horse is prone and still takes
damage from the shot, so roll damage.

TALIESIN: Oh, and also takes damage.

MATT: Because you shot it with...

TALIESIN: I did. I really shot it. It didn't have
a good day. Do I have enough...

LAURA: We'll heal it so good!

TRAVIS: I'm going to eat it.

TALIESIN: There's no horse left. Yeah, oh boy.
That's 30 points of damage.

MATT: 30 points of damage!

LAURA: Is that a lot for a horse?

TALIESIN: That's my maximum damage with a single
unaffected shot.

MATT: Yeah, as the horse skids over and hits the
ground, it falls onto its side, and you watch its

heavy breathing become still.

LAURA and ASHLEY: No!

TRAVIS: Dinner!

TALIESIN: I'm keeping a second shot. The second I
see her head, I am taking a

head shot on this girl.

MATT: Okay. Make a perception check because you
were down in the grass.

TALIESIN: Nope.

SAM: I lift my head up. What's going on?

MATT: You can't, because you are tied.

TALIESIN: 11.

MATT: No, you see nothing. What were you doing?

LIAM: (whoosh)

MATT: Okay, so you (whoosh) up in the air. Okay.

LAURA: I'm brooming.

MATT: You're brooming towards. All right, so she
comes to a tumble. For this purpose, I'm going to

have you two, since you're both pretty quick, roll
initiative checks, please.

LAURA: 26.

LIAM: 24.

MATT: Jesus. Okay. So. You both rush over and you
watch as she tumbles and catches herself, skidding

into the dirt. You can see bits where she's rubbed
and gashed in the face. Pale skin, blonde hair,

nowhere near the description that you were given
by those who were trying to scry earlier, but

catches herself and lands, reaches over and sees
Taryon about three feet behind and immediately

darts over, grabbing something from the satchel--

LAURA: Can I shoot her with an arrow?

MATT: It would've taken your movement to get to
her, but you can move half as quickly and go for a

shot if you want to.

LAURA: I want to try to go for a shot.

LIAM: How close are we, right in this second?

MATT: Well, you're going to close the distance
because you're apparently a bullet. Learn to

balance your magical items, people!

LIAM: Or not.

MATT: Or not.

LAURA: Or let your players spread them out and not
keep them all for themselves.

MATT: Exactly, yeah.

LIAM: Salt, salt.

MATT: It's all good. So you'll be able to get your
shots off about the time that you get there.

LAURA: Salty. Oh no.

LIAM: You got a four because of all that salt.

LAURA: Yeah, I know. That was 19.

MATT: That hits.

LAURA: The first, and then more than that on the
second.

MATT: Okay, so both hit. Go ahead and roll
damage.

LAURA: Oh, is it too late to say I want one to be
a bramble shot?

MATT: You can bramble shot, sure.

LAURA: Yeah! Okay!

MATT: You decide a bramble shot as you hit.

LAURA: Oh, sweet! DC of 17.

MATT: DC of 17? Not with an eight.

LAURA: She's restrained!

MATT: She's restrained.

TRAVIS: Nice. That's huge.

LAURA: 12, 13.

SAM: Pretty calm fight music, Matt.

MATT: The volume is really low on that speaker. My
apologies.

LAURA: 13 plus eight is 21.

MATT: There we go.

LAURA: 21 plus eight is 29, plus 1d6 lightning
damage. 29 plus six is 35! 35 on the first shot.

MATT: All righty.

LAURA: And then 16. 24 on the second, and I was
wrong, add two more to the first shot because I

forgot I was using my bracers.

MATT: Okay, so 37, got it. So you (flying arrows)
and fire both off as your broom is coasting inward

from an arc and the first arrow catches her in the
knee and she (yelps) and is still reaching for

Taryon. However, as the arrow smashes into her, it
bursts into a series of thorny vines that (whoosh)

wrap around and ensnare her and she falls over,
now bound like Taryon is for the moment. Falls on

the ground. Whatever was in her hand stumbles
forward.

LAURA and TRAVIS: Yeah!

MATT: And she's like (grunts) reaching out just as
the second arrow hits her in the back and (groans)

gives out a yelp in pain. Vax.

LIAM: What distance am I right now, would you
say?

MATT: You almost closed the distance with your
movement.

TRAVIS: Get in there, Barry Allen.

LIAM: Okay, but am I within 50 feet? 60 feet?

MATT: You're within 60 feet.

LIAM: 60 feet? All right, so I'm going to throw
Whisper at her, and she's brambled.

MATT: She's restrained; you have advantage.

LIAM: Right. Yeah, that hits. That's a 32. I'm
going to bamf there on this one, right up to her.

That is four plus eight is 12, plus this guy makes
it 19, plus these guys. Now we do some more math.

20, 26, 27, 31, 34, 39, 42. With Whisper, right
into her back, and then click the Boots of Haste

and then I'm going to scuttle to Tary and cut
ropes. He's probably within ten feet, right?

MATT: Yeah, he's like five feet from her.

LIAM: All right, so I'm cutting him totally loose
and I'm going to lift him away. Whatever you'll

let me do. Action, action, bonus action, right,
and movement to get there.

MATT: Well, no. Your movement was to get there,
your action was to attack her, and so you have

your bonus action, still.

LIAM: Then I'll use it to cut him loose.

MATT: Okay, you begin to cut him loose. Because
there's a lot of ropes around him, there's not a

single binding.

LIAM: Okay. Good enough.

MATT: All right, so now it's her turn. She's bound
on the ground. Coughs up blood as she's suffered a

severe amount of damage in just a few moments. As
she's lying there on the ground, the vines

twisting around her, she goes, "Wait. Wait.
(sighs) Stop." And she's going to...

what's the DC?

LAURA: 17.

MATT: 17. She does manage to break free from the
restraints. She breaks free from the vines, and

then she puts her hands up. That's her turn.

LAURA: Can I land?

MATT: Yeah. If anyone else wants to take any of
their actions right now, we're technically not in

initiative order. She's put her hands up.

TALIESIN: I'm slowly making my way a little closer
to the action, but I'm going to find a place where

I can watch both sides of the road and also what's
happening off the road right now.

MATT: Okay.

TRAVIS: I'm writing my name in the path with a
stick.

LAURA: I'm grabbing the thing that she was trying
to grab.

MARISHA: Same as Percy, but as a crow.

TALIESIN: Actually, if you come-- well, that would
be interesting, actually.

MARISHA: (caws)

MATT: What you find on the ground is a small
marble, similar in size to the one that you saw

attached to the side of Doty earlier, but it's a
different color. The one that you saw earlier was

a bluish tint, a light blue tint. This one appears
clear.

LAURA: Can I pick it up? I'll pocket that shit.

MATT: Okay.

SAM: Can I stand up yet? Am I still tied up?

MATT: At the moment, as all of you begin to
converge and close in on her, she just has her

hands up at this point. I'd say for the next
minute or so, you get cut free, yeah. You still

have your armor on, you still have all your
equipment that was on you. Yeah, she took

everything with you. You're not robbed. You were
just bound and taken.

LIAM: You all right, T?

SAM: I will, yeah. (panting) What took you people
so long? I was on a horse

for what felt like days!

LIAM: Well, initially we thought you could handle
it.

SAM: No! You know me better than that!

LAURA: We're here, aren't we?

MATT: You do have a massive headache, by the way.
It's pounding.

SAM: Please tell me that someone brought my
toothbrush.

LAURA: Your breath smells disgusting right now.

SAM: Please don't smell it. I'm very embarrassed.
I went to sleep. I don't know what this is! I

mean. She's taking me. She's paid by my father,
probably.

ASHLEY: What's your name?

MATT: "K'ryyn."

ALL: K'ryyn?

SAM: And what, you work for my father? On a
regular basis?

MATT: "I was contracted by your father. This is
the first time."

LAURA: Just to find him? And bring him back?

MATT: "That's what I do."

LAURA: How much were you being paid? I want to
know how much he's worth.

LIAM: You're not really in a position of power
here, darling.

MATT: "Upon delivery, I was to be paid 5,000 gold
pieces."

SAM: Oh, that's nearly nothing. I'm worth far more
than that.

LAURA: You know his father has way more money than
that.

LIAM: You are rose gold.

SAM: I am.

LAURA: How long ago did he send you?

MATT: "He sent me out on this job about two months
back."

LAURA: It took that long to find him? Does anyone
in this town, Deastok, know about Whitestone? Know

where you found him?

MATT: "Not to my knowledge. I don't care about
people in this town. I was called here to pick up

"the contract, and I left."

LAURA: What guild do you work for?

MATT: "I work for no guild. I am a solo agent."

SAM: So cool.

LAURA: Can I insight check her?

MATT: Go for it.

LAURA: She's so cool. 17.

MATT: 17? She's hard to read. By nature and by
business, you get the sense, and at this point as

you're looking at her, she sees you glaring and
looking over her intensely, she (sighs) takes one

hand up under her hood and presses her thumb to
the side of what looks like a small circlet, and

her image shimmers and you now see before you the
drow elf that was described to you, wincing as the

sun is still in the sky and you can see, while the
illusion did not seem to give off that, she's

physically not enjoying being under direct
sunlight.

LIAM: Bet you're glad for that cloud cover today,
aren't you?

MATT: "It's been helpful. That's why I prefer to
do most of my work in Wildmount."

LIAM: What should we do here?

SAM: Well, we should bind her and search her. Make
sure she's not holding any weapons or anything.

TRAVIS: You were just supposed to bring Tary back
to his dad?

MATT: "That is all. Unharmed. I took great care to
make sure he was not harmed. I have a business I

"run based purely on reputation."

SAM: I respect that, but I did get a bruise right
here from the horse falling over, so I'm not

totally okay.

MATT: "That is, apparently, an issue for you to
take up with your friends."

TRAVIS: Tary, I thought you left your home. Or
were you kicked out?

SAM: I left.

TRAVIS: Yeah?

SAM: Yes. I left of my own accord.

LAURA: Did you leave suddenly, without any word,
or did they know you were leaving?

SAM: They knew I was leaving.

LIAM: And how do you want to play this? Because
your pops wants you back, obviously.

SAM: Well, this is just some paid shithead, so I
don't think we should kill her

or anything like that.

LAURA: What happens if you don't deliver your
quarry?

MATT: "Then my contract is broken, I do not get
paid, and it is a blight on future business."

TRAVIS: Are you armed? Somebody remove her weapons
so she can put her arms down.

MATT: You pat her down? Yeah, she has two daggers,
one placed in each boot, stealthily hidden. She

has a shortbow that is over her chest and
shoulder, and a side quiver of about 40 arrows.

LAURA: Oh shit! These are good arrows.

MATT: She goes, "Thank you."

LAURA: Just noticed the good work, that's all.

MATT: "I make them myself."

LAURA: I show her one of my owlbear arrows.

MATT: "Owlbear?"

LAURA: I know.

(laughter)

LIAM: What do you want to do?

SAM: I want to take her belongings and send her on
her way.

TRAVIS: You don't want to see her dead?

SAM: That's a separate question, isn't it?

TRAVIS: Yep.

SAM: We're very close-- proximity, I mean. Seems
foolish not to at least go have it out with him.

This is unacceptable behavior, I think, in any
relationship. This is not cool, right?

LAURA: No, he should have offered way more money
for you.

SAM: Well, yes, there's that, too.

TRAVIS: She did surrender. I'm just thinking,
maybe we go in, she gets paid, she keeps her

reputation, and then you can--

SAM: You want her to get paid? She kidnapped me!

ASHLEY: You should still make your dad pay,
though!

SAM: What?!

ASHLEY: You could say, I would've come here--

SAM: She committed a crime against me. I don't
want her to get money!

MATT: As you're having this conversation, she
slowly puts her hands down.

LIAM: I'm still watching.

TRAVIS: And she surrendered, right?

SAM: I'm sorry. I guess I was raised with a
different appreciation for money, but Pike, your

family came in and robbed us and you gave them a
bunch of gold. Then this person kidnapped me, and

you want to give her 5,000 gold.

LAURA: Well, we don't want to give her 5,000 gold.
We want your dad to have to give her 5,000 gold.

ASHLEY: And if you show up with all of us and her,
say you could've just called, I would've shown up,

but you still have to pay her.

SAM: You think he'll be guilted?

ASHLEY: Well, I don't know. I don't know him.

TALIESIN: I think it might be an easy way into the
city.

SAM: I live in the city. I'll just walk in!

TRAVIS: Maybe she owes us one after this.

SAM: It's my house!

LAURA: Should we all be in disguise?

LIAM: Are you sure you're cool to walk in right
now?

SAM: Yes! I'm Taryon fucking Darrington. People
shake when they see me walking

down the street here.

ASHLEY: You know, she was able to find you. Maybe
she could also find somebody else for us.

TRAVIS: Yeah.

SAM: Who?

ASHLEY: A very good friend.

LAURA: I think that's a wonderful idea.

TRAVIS: Yeah. Maybe she owes us one. K'ryyn, would
you like to owe us a favor if we let you live, and

get you paid, and you keep your reputation all on
the same day?

MATT: "To be perfectly honest, this is an offer I
very well cannot refuse, given the circumstances.

"If you are serious."

LAURA: We are. We want you to find someone.

MATT: "Then find them, I will."

SAM: I abstain! With an attitude!

TRAVIS: Noted. All in favor of getting her paid,
letting her live, and earning a favor?

ASHLEY: Well, hold on, Tary. If you had it your
way, what would you want?

TRAVIS: What are you doing?

ASHLEY: Majority rules, but let's hear what you
have to say.

SAM: I would like an apology.

TALIESIN: I think that's fair.

LAURA and ASHLEY: That's fair.

MATT: Her eyes become these narrow slits and the
jaw clenches. "I apologize for any discomfort or

"embarrassment my retrieval of you may have caused."

LAURA: That's a good apology.

SAM: And as to the amount that was promised, do
you think that was a fair amount?

TRAVIS: Oh, this is a bit much.

MATT: "It was my standard rate."

SAM: I accept your apology. And as I said, I
admire your diligence and faith to your contract.

You don't get any of your belongings back! Is that
all right?

ALL: (negative noises)

LAURA: She might need it.

SAM: You don't get any of your magical belongings
back! I want it.

LAURA: Well, I want you to look at them. I want to
know what it is.

SAM: Yeah. But we'll, I guess, walk in together
and you can present me to my father. This seems so

stupid, but sure, I'll go along with it.

LAURA: And then you'll help us out.

MATT: "Very well. It seems we are at an accord."

LIAM: I'm going to yank Vex aside, actually.

LAURA: Well, I'm going to shake her hand before--
shit.

LIAM: Are you talking about what I think you are
talking about?

LAURA: Yeah!

LIAM: You want to send her after your friend?

LAURA: Our friend.

LIAM: You think he wants a mercenary showing up in
his life, looking for him? Think about it.

LAURA: He could be dead.

LIAM: He's doing what he wants to do.

ASHLEY: Did I overhear them?

MATT: Make a perception check.

ASHLEY: 16.

MATT: How quiet were you guys being?

TALIESIN: Pretty quiet.

MATT: You glean elements of the conversation.

LIAM: I wasn't trying to hide it.

MATT: Yeah, you get the gist of what they were
talking about.

ASHLEY: Okay. She doesn't have to bring him or
anything, it could be just looking, bring us

information if she sees him.

TRAVIS: Like a two-day report.

ASHLEY: We don't have to! We don't have to do it,
but I do like the idea of this woman-- this woman

had a job to do. It's not her fault. I'm sorry,
Tary, but I do feel like we need to let her

complete her mission.

TALIESIN: It's a bit her fault.

SAM: Fine. And then we can send her to look after
that little creep that you're always talking

about.

LIAM: When you were in Vasselheim--

LAURA: It was a cube, Tary. Like a cube.

SAM: That's gross. That's disgusting.

LIAM: How would you feel if you learned that we'd
sent someone to watch you? He left. He wanted to

go. He wanted to be away from us.

ASHLEY: I know.

LIAM: If he wants to come back, I want him back.

ASHLEY: I know, but I feel like he should've come
back already.

LAURA: What if he's dead?

ASHLEY: What if he's dead?

LIAM: What if he's being a father to his child?
What if he's enjoying his life?

TRAVIS: Boring.

ASHLEY: If that's the case, then maybe she can
tell us that and then we'll leave it alone. But

what if he's dead?

TALIESIN: Why doesn't she just owe us one favor to
be claimed later?

ASHLEY: Yes, I like that idea.

MARISHA: I fly down to Pike's shoulder and I go,
(caws).

LAURA: Yeah, I know, right?

ASHLEY: See, she thinks-- I like that idea. She
owes us a favor at some point.

TRAVIS: But I want to find Scanlan!

ASHLEY: Maybe we should table it.

SAM: Yeah, let's go talk to my dad and get this
settled, and then we'll figure out your next

assignment or whatever.

LAURA: You'll hang out, though? You're not going
to disappear?

MATT: "I have business still to make, and you have
been merciful, so I will remain."

MARISHA: I fly over to Percy's shoulder and I go,
(caws).

TALIESIN: I am Groot.

MATT: "Very well. Into the city, then?"

SAM: Yes.

MATT: She looks back at her horse. "I assume we'll
be walking. Very well." And her image shimmers

once more to the pale-skinned blonde woman in the
same outfit, and you all walk along with her

through the forest, down the path, through the
farm fields, making your way to the outskirts of

Deastok. As you are making your way up the
hillside path, one of the patrol guards comes down

on horseback, crossbow slung over his shoulder and
his hand on the side of his sword as he glances

down and goes, "Hail, you there!" And as soon as
he glances over the group of you.

"Mister Darrington, welcome home."

SAM: Thank you. These are my friends. They should
be treated with respect.

MATT: "Of course. Good day."

TRAVIS and TALIESIN: Bidet.

MATT: He continues clomping by, (hoofbeats),
making his way down the rest of his patrol.

TALIESIN: It's going to be a dark window, isn't
it? This entire trip.

SAM: No, the town was never the problem. It's a
fine place to grow up.

TALIESIN: I'm very curious. Let's see this place.

SAM: Sure.

MARISHA: I'll go ahead and drop form so I'm not a
bird.

TALIESIN: Ow! Oh god!

MARISHA: Oh, I always forget that. I'm so sorry.

TALIESIN: That's all right, it's not my shooting
arm.

MARISHA: I'm learning, still.

TALIESIN: I know.

MARISHA: Sorry!

TALIESIN: It's okay.

MARISHA: Here, let me just--

TALIESIN: Yeah, ow. Yeah.

MARISHA: There you go.

TALIESIN: I'll need a bit more later. Thanks.

LAURA: Tary?

SAM: Yeah, oi?

LAURA: I'm sorry.

SAM: For what?

LAURA: Well, you know.

SAM: No, you're right. We can't punish people who
are just hired to do a job. It's fine.

LAURA: It's how we all started out, really.

SAM: Yes, I hired you.

LAURA: Okay.

TALIESIN: He's got a point.

SAM: And now, we're so close! Here, let's go to my
dad's house, but... I need to make an entrance.

I'll be on broom.

LAURA: Can I be on broom, too, though?

SAM: Yes. Behind me. And I should be front and
center. You guys can flank--

LAURA: Flying V behind you.

SAM: Yes, thank you.

MARISHA: I catch up to Tary a little bit and I go,
hey! Are you special in some way? Is there

something about you that's magical and special?

SAM: Is this a trick question? There's everything.
Most things are special about me.

MARISHA: That's true. Is there a reason a vampire
would want you?

SAM: What? There's vampires here?

MARISHA: Do you have special blood?

SAM: No? Wait, what?

MARISHA: Can I look at your eyes?

SAM: I mean, sure? They're the bluest of blue.

MARISHA: That's true! Do you know anything about
your bloodline? Is there something about you? I

feel like I have an essence about you now.

TRAVIS: How much of her brains were left in the
rocks?

LAURA: I know, she got rattled.

MATT: Yeah, she's gone full Phoebe from Friends.

TRAVIS: Yeah!

LIAM: I'm off to the side with Grog going one,
two, three, shoot!

SAM: My town here, it doesn't have very many high
hills, but still, stay on the ground, will you?

MARISHA: Okay!

MATT: As you guys make your way into the actual
city of Deastok, the architecture here is very

tall and as intricate as it is old. The stonework
is edged and almost sharp in places, the shape and

design of most roofs and windows leaning towards
the gothic. You can see similar roots here to some

of Whitestone's older buildings and architecture,
common space where the original de Rolos traveled

once from Wildmount. The architecture here, as
opposed to the more built-for-function that a lot

of you are used to in Tal'Dorei, anywhere from
huts to, I want to push almost Tudor to colonial,

this definitely has tall stone archways, tall
stained-glass windows, in places. A lot of the

buildings, edges, and roofs will come to tiny
metal spires where points or occasionally flags or

tapestries would hang from in the wind. Very
different visual feel than anything you've seen

over in Tal'Dorei.

As you guys make your way through the streets, in
the presentational mode of which Taryon has

requested, people do stop and stare. You can hear
whispers, some folks pointing, some of the patrols

gather to keep a close eye as you pass. No
excitement, no parade, no cursing or aggression,

just acknowledgement of the arrival of these
strangers and a very flashy lord. Eventually, you

lead them to the Darrington estate. This is a
large, three-story building surrounded by tall,

iron pike-topped gates that surround the somewhat
octagonal shape of the grounds. The main gate is

watched by a single man in a simple leather outfit
and a metallic helmet. Who, as he sees you

approach goes, "Have you-- sir! Welcome home!"

SAM: Thank you. Tell the master of the house that
we've arrived.

MATT: "Yes. Right away, sir!" Opens the gate and
rushes off to the front door and disappears inside

for a moment. The door opens again, and you see
emerging from it a very tall, thin, brass-scaled

dragonborn with very fine clothing. His lack of
tail speaks of his Ravinite lineage. You recognize

this individual as Berthold; he is the servant of
the house and quarters. As he approaches he goes,

"Oh, Master Taryon, it has been some time! Good to
see you in good health!"

SAM: Yes, excellent to see you, too. You've been
keeping the grounds quite nice.

MATT: "We've been doing our best. I take it you--"
and he looks over to the woman K'ryyn, goes,

"You--"

"Yes, I would like to complete my contract."

"Very well. Please, follow me inside. This way."
The dragonborn turns around. He almost towers over

you; he's this spindling tree of a dragonborn. As
he leads you into the home, you watch him; he has

to dip down to enter the interior of the house. As
you step inside the estate, you're immediately hit

with the smell of musty carpets, wood oil stain,
and some since turned-to-smoke-and-embers burning

wood in a fireplace. You see immediately in the
darkly lit interior fine tables and well-crafted

furniture that clutter hallways, holding vases and
dried flowers that probably have been in long need

of a change. It's eerily silent. It seems, at
least on this floor, empty of pretty much all life

except for Berthold. He begins to walk up the
stairs. "Right this way. You know." And he heads

up the second flight of stairs to the very top of
the interior of the estate, and there is the very

heavy oak door that marks the study quarters of
your father. He knocks lightly on the door.

"Master Howard, you have some unexpected guests,
including the one you hired to bring your son

"home. And is here with your son."

There's a pause. You hear a voice on the other
side say, "Let them enter." The door creaks open.

(creak)

Berthold steps back. "I'll wait here." He bows and
gestures for you all to step into the room.

As you guys step into this study you see, standing
right across from you, looking into the fireplace,

you occasionally hear the crack and the snap of
what looks to be a halfway burned fire. A human

man in his late forties. His short blond hair is
receding to the top of his head. You can see the

firelight glistening across his somewhat oily
forehead, and two heavy sideburns that are an

uncombed mass that frame the sides of his very
hardened square jaw. He is dressed in a nobleman's

coat and breeches, though his shoes are nowhere to
be seen. Just barefoot on the ground. He looks

over and sees you enter and looks towards Taryon
and his hardened face turns to a softened smile.

"My son."

SAM: Papa.

MATT: He looks over to the woman, K'ryyn. "What
I've heard is true, and I thank you for your time.

"Berthold will see that you are paid." She nods.
There is a nod to you.

SAM: You'll wait for us outside the grounds, and
we'll give you your next assignment soon.

MATT: "That is the arrangement." She leaves the
room and you hear Berthold walking alongside her

and chatting with her about payment as she
leaves.

As soon as they walk down the stairs he turns and
goes, "I am glad to see you are well."

SAM: Are you? You sent that woman to kidnap me.

MATT: "I sent that woman to bring you home. To see
that you were safe."

SAM: She bound and gagged me and threw me on the
back of a horse. That's how you brought me home?

MATT: "You're a hard man to find when you want to
be."

SAM: I am literally the least hard man to find. I
tell everyone my name, I wear a gold helmet, and I

walk around talking about myself.

MATT: His smile fades for a moment. "And yet you
were very far from these lands."

SAM: Yes, I was. I was living a new life, as I
told you I would. I was finding myself and

becoming someone.

MATT: "That is good. Just know that I was worried.
You fill your head with these fantasies and ideals

"and step out into the unknown. Do you know how
many men and women are found gutted in the streets

"and left and abandoned to rot away in forests by
some bandits on the roadside? Not to mention the

"various beasts of the wild out there. I was
worried about you."

SAM: Well, I was in danger for much of my time
away, but that's not a bad thing, sometimes.

Becoming an adventurer or whatever I am now, it
wasn't supposed to be easy. It was supposed to be

hard, and it was, and it had risks. But along the
way, I did much, and I stand before you now as a

different man than who left. One who has been
through a lot and knows the dangers of the world,

but is also a survivor. You know, when I left, I
told you I was going to prove myself to you. That

I would bring you back stories of my exploits and
show you what kind of a man I really was. And I

wrote a lot of them down in a book, but I don't
think I want to show it to you, because I don't

think you deserve to see it. You never supported
me as a child, and you don't now. Financially,

yes, but not as a father. And the things I did
while I was away-- well, the book is a diary now.

It's for me, not for you.

MATT: "Taryon... while my parenting may have
been strict or distant at times, I didn't reflect

"on my care for you. We have a legacy in
this family to maintain."

SAM: Yes, I know. That's all you seem to care
about.

MATT: "That's all that matters."

SAM: It's not all that matters. I know that I
carry your blood and that means a lot to you.

MATT: "This money that you seem to relish in,
that you took without asking, the last of our

"coffers. Your grandfather started this, and I've
done everything to maintain it. And your

"interests, your attention, could not be brought to
learn and maintain this business after me, so I've

"had to turn to Maryanne. It's not that I don't
love you, but you have another purpose in this

"family. And that is why I've brought you here."

SAM: And what is that?

MATT: And you watch as his hands are shaking and
he's fidgeting and scratching his chin and running

his fingers through his sideburns. "We're
impoverished. I haven't been able to pay our staff

"in nearly two months. Everything that I had to do
to maintain this legacy has come back to bear

"fruit, and the debt that we owe is vast."

SAM: I don't believe you. Where's the money?
Where's the family money?

MATT: He looks around at the rest of you, and you
can see now there is trepidation with having this

conversation in front of strangers.

SAM: It's all right. They're with me.

MATT: He reaches over and grabs off his desk an
already opened bottle of some sort of wine. Takes

a quick swig and sets it down. Slumps into his
chair in front of the fire and rests his face on

his hand. "Everything your grandfather Oberon
built, it's on the verge of fading away. All the

"taxes we claim on our lands now go straight to a
syndicate that we owe a lot of money to. Unless

"we find a way to pay off the debts of your father
and his father before him, we will all be thrown

"into the cold or worse. Now, I've seen this storm
coming for a while, Taryon. I've spent years

"trying to coax a family union with the Truscans;
you know this. After much toil and diplomacy, they

"have agreed to wed you to their daughter Lydia.
This union will bring our family a renewed avenue

"to wealth and protection within the empire! We can
stave off this terrible end, and you will be a

"hero within the family."

SAM: I don't understand. The way we lived, the way
you talked, made it seem like there was endless

money, forever.

MATT: "This stems to your lack of respect."

SAM: My lack of respect? What happened? How did
you ruin us like this?

LAURA: What is this syndicate you speak of?

MATT: His eyes dart to you with a fiery hatred,
like how dare you speak up right now. "When your

"grandfather passed, when you were still but a
baby, our lands were nearly taken from us by a

"rival barony from within the Dwendalian court.
Lord Jaipher found loopholes to revoking our

"ownership and titles set by Oberon and in my panic
and necessity, I found an ally in the Myriad."

SAM: In the Myriad?

MATT: "Through a whispered hint, I met a man named
Korshad, who ensured our surviving ownership in

"trade for a partnership with him. I signed, not
wanting to toss, at the time, my only child

"onto the street. But as the decades passed, I did
not realize in my haste, the depths of the deal

"that I had made. And with many harvests failing in
recent years, the agreement now devours our

"livelihood from within. They now demand our
accrued debt paid in full or they take full

"ownership of everything."

SAM: I'm having trouble wrapping my head around
this. You're saying everything I've lived has all

been built on this deal with this shady group?
You're a criminal? You're just a criminal.

MATT: "No. No, it is built on what we built as a
family."

SAM: We didn't build anything as a family!

MATT: "We did, and nearly had it taken away. I did
this to maintain it. And I let you live as you all

"deserved to live."

SAM: But Papa, you never told me any of this. You
were cold to us, and you told us a bare minimum of

what you did and how you ran things.

MATT: "I hoped to find a way to fix this before I
needed to, yet here I am, prostrate before my own

"child. Broken." And he starts, like, tears just
pour down his cheeks. "I was just trying to make

"it right."

SAM: I didn't know any of this. How would I? And
now I have to fix it for you

by marrying some girl?

MATT: "It's a marriage of convenience."

SAM: That's still a marriage.

MATT: "It means nothing more than political gain.
Your life is still yours to live."

SAM: No, it's not! I have to be here, I have to be
with her. I have to live in her castle or she in

mine. (sighs) Listen, I've learned a lot from
these people over the last year or so. And one

thing I've learned is that you are who you are
whether you have a lot of money or not. And I

don't have that much anymore and I'm still okay
with that. And it's not because of the things I

own, it's because of the deeds that I do. You've
done some bad deeds in your life, and it sounds

like you've done them to preserve our family and
preserve our legacy, but that's

not a reason to do them.

MATT: He leans forward to you and looks to you
with an honest, more honest than you've seen him,

very vulnerable expression. "Every man and woman
who has money has done bad things."

SAM: Yes, I'm sure that's true. And I assume I'm
somehow complicit in this.

MATT: "You are not. I tried to keep you, your
sister, and your mother as innocent as I could. My

"back is to a wall now."

SAM: I'll have to think about this.

MATT: "Think on it. The choice is still yours; I
would not force you into this, but it is a chance

"I wish you to contemplate."

SAM: What have you done to our name? Do people
know of this?

MATT: "No."

SAM: And if I marry this girl, it will just all go
away?

MATT: "If you marry this girl, we will have the
influence and the wealth to pay this debt and cut

"ties with the Myriad entirely. We would be a free
family once more."

LAURA: How much debt are we talking?

MATT: "The last amount we were given: 230,000
gold."

LAURA: Well. That's a lot.

ASHLEY: Is there any other way than marriage that
you can think of?

MATT: "I've exhausted the options I have at my
disposal."

LAURA: What if we just wipe out the Myriad?

MATT: He laughs.

SAM: They're far too big.

MATT: "You underestimate the sheer size and how
ingrained they are in the society here. This is no

"guild. Wildmount is the Myriad in many ways."

SAM: And if I say no and they take all of our
possessions and our estate, everything, what then?

We're ruined.

MATT: "We're on the street. We are but beggars
within our own city, at the mercy of those we've

"been taxing."

SAM: How could you do this to us?

MATT: "Because I loved you. I loved you all, and I
did what was necessary."

SAM: You never told us that. You always talked
about bloodlines and legacies and the Darrington

name. But you never told us you were proud. You
never comforted us. You never cared what I wanted

to do or who I wanted to be. I'm cursed with this
name now, Darrington. You've sullied our name by

enforcing these taxes and just being an asshole to
everyone around our whole city, and now I have to

live with it or marry this girl to save it.
Listen, I'm sorry I left, and I'm sorry I took all

of that gold. I did not know it was everything.
But what you're asking me is-- I'll need to think.

I'm sorry.

MATT: "I owe you that, at least. I never claimed
to be a good man. I never claimed to be a good

"father, good husband, but I can try to be better,
can't I?"

SAM: Yes, you can. I'm going to go see Mother and
Sister. Might my friends stay here the night?

MATT: "Of course, and enjoy the grounds while you
can."

LAURA: This Korshad, and the Myriad, where do you
meet with him?

MATT: "It's been some time, but if you wish to
seek him out, ask for who you can speak with the

"Many, in the Grumpy Lily."

SAM: Grumpy Lillian?

MATT: The Grumpy Lily. You know this to be one of
the seedier bars in town.

SAM: Oh, okay.

LAURA: And I'm asking to speak with the Many?

MATT: You're wishing to speak with the Many.

LAURA: All right.

SAM: Well, good to see you. Have a good
afternoon.

MATT: "I'm glad you're safe."

SAM: Thank you. It's good to see you again.

MATT: "You too. More than you know, my son."

LAURA: Do we leave the room?

SAM: Yes, let's leave the room.

LIAM: We could have cut that air with a knife.

LAURA: So here's the thing, though. You said he
like hated you, and he didn't seem like he hated

you at all!

SAM: He's acting differently than I recall. It's
been a while. I'm not used to seeing him like

this, and honestly, I don't know how to take it.

LAURA: Well, you can't marry that bitch.

ASHLEY: You can't marry her.

SAM: It seems like I have to.

LAURA and ASHLEY: No, you don't.

TRAVIS: Got to do it.

SAM: Grog says I do.

LAURA: Grog.

TRAVIS: Simplest. The shortest distance between
two--

ASHLEY: Two points.

TRAVIS: Yep. Is--

SAM: Marriage.

TRAVIS: Marriage. Yep.

LAURA: You're getting so smart, Grog! So smart.

TRAVIS: Don't be jealous.

LIAM: I know some about the Myriad, correct?

MATT: You've encountered them once. Back in
Stillben, back at the very beginning of your

adventures. The very beginning.

TALIESIN: Not me.

MATT: Percy, this is the first you've heard.

MARISHA: Wait, you?

LAURA: He wasn't with us yet. We had that other
guy he was playing.

(laughter)

LIAM: Rusty. Rusty Trombone?

TALIESIN: Rusty Trombone.

SAM: He was a weird character choice.

MATT: That's a good name for an artificer.

(laughter)

MATT: As you exit the study and close the door
behind you, left in the cold, quiet silence of the

house, you continue your conversation.

TALIESIN: Where is your sister?

SAM: I don't know.

LAURA: How much money did you take when you left?

SAM: I thought a meager amount. 50,000 gold.

MARISHA: That's a lot.

LAURA: But, I mean, considering the debt that
they're in.

MARISHA: That's literally more than my entire
tribe owns.

LAURA: Well, we have a lot more than that in our
party fund.

MARISHA: I know. We own more than my tribe owns.

TALIESIN: I own more than your tribe owns.

MARISHA: I know. I will say, Tary, I think
you are special. You have very large dangling bits.

Along with your earring. Very large other bits.

SAM: Thank you.

TALIESIN: We were working on that particular
compliment, and I feel like we have a little way

to go.

MARISHA: Is it all right? No? I thought
that was a compliment.

SAM: Tell her she did good.

TRAVIS: Are you cool with your sister?

SAM: No. I'm not cool with my sister. She's not
that great.

TRAVIS: Is she married?

TALIESIN: Do you think she knows about this?

SAM: I guess. I suppose she knows about this.

MARISHA: And the last time you spoke with her was
when you left, I'm assuming?

SAM: Yes, that's right. She was being groomed as the
heir to the family, and I was being shut out. My

mother is here somewhere, too. She's pretty
quiet.

TALIESIN: What do you want to do?

SAM: I guess talk to them, but we can't go after
the Myriad; they're powerful and dark.

TRAVIS: What if we offer services, and they excuse
part of the debt?

SAM: No, he offered services, and look where it
got him.

ASHLEY: Do you know Lydia?

MATT: You've never met Lydia in your life. You
don't even know what she looks like.

TALIESIN: I'm not even sure if that's something
that should be entertained.

SAM: We could go talk to them, but I don't see how
that's going to change anything.

LAURA: Maybe she's a really cool girl that won't
be into you and you can just hang out and be

besties?

SAM: Gross.

LAURA: Hey!

SAM: No. I like being besties with you. I don't
want some rando.

TALIESIN: It's not fair to her, either.

MARISHA: It's not. Honestly, maybe we should just
go talk to her first.

SAM: Lydia?

LAURA: No, she's in a whole other town.

ASHLEY: Here's the thing, you're not going to
marry her. Okay?

SAM: Why not?

ASHLEY: Because if he wants to be a better father
to you, then he's going to let this go and not

let you do this. If that means him being out on
the street, that's my opinion.

TRAVIS: That's harsh.

SAM: Everything he is, is his status, though. This
place, where he lives, his servants. If he's got

nothing, then he's just... he'll die.

ASHLEY: Sometimes, when you let that go, only then
are you able to truly live.

TRAVIS: Whoa.

LAURA: Deep.

SAM: That is maybe true, but listen. I've been
working on this for a year, and I'm starting to

get really nervous. I'm down to my last few bits
of gold, and I don't know how that would feel to

run out.

ASHLEY: I don't even have any money.

LAURA: Because you gave it all away.

TRAVIS: Technically, I've got a lot of money.

ASHLEY: Money gives you everything you want.

LAURA: It's the best thing.

MARISHA: Hey, but you're thrifty. You're good.

SAM: No, I'm not thrifty.

MARISHA: Yes, you are! Taryon, I've seen make
amazing things. You can survive. You've been to

the depths of the watery abyss. And you've lived,
kind of.

TALIESIN: That's a bad example.

LAURA: I'm really wishing we had taken a lot more
money from Thordak. If we had taken more money,

everything would be fine right now.

MARISHA: No! That's not the lesson of the story,
you guys!

SAM: Yes, money would have solved this.

MARISHA: No! Not the lesson, not the lesson we're
supposed to take away!

TALIESIN: No, I mean he's right that money would
have solved this. But that's not the lesson.

Keyleth is right.

MARISHA: I don't have an alternative for the
lesson. It's just not the lesson.

TALIESIN: We're here. We can figure out a way out
of this. We're smart, we're clever, we're

powerful. And what's one more cliff?

MARISHA: Yeah, we're gods!

TALIESIN: Not again.

TRAVIS: Not going to say that ever again.

ASHLEY: I say we go talk to the Many.

LAURA: Yes, let's go talk to the Many.

LIAM: I understand this is very complicated. Are
we really looking for a solution to fix several

generations of your family's misdeeds? It sounds
like your father, your grandfather have been

navigating murky waters for some time.

TALIESIN: I want to find out what your sister
knows.

LIAM: I don't know what the right decision is,
either. Do you marry this woman to fix decades of

terrible decisions?

TALIESIN: I don't necessarily see how two wrongs
right anything here. It's just really kicking the

ball down the road while you make another random
human being you have not met miserable.

LAURA: That's right.

SAM: I assume I would be a fine husband.

LAURA: You'd be amazing.

SAM: I feel like I'd be okay.

LIAM: You make really good blondies, and
many things besides blondies, as well.

TALIESIN: Oh, this is so depressing. I'm not going
to even pretend that this is true. Absolutely not.

No. You'll be miserable, and that will make her
miserable.

SAM: Yes, it's true.

LIAM: So if we know that that's not happening,
then we deal with the problem that is left behind.

Which is: do we worry about your family's life,
their safety? Are they safe here, or are

they gonna be eaten alive?

SAM: I'd assume they are not safe here. We'd have
to convince them to leave, or protect them

somehow, or make a deal to at least protect them
in poverty.

LAURA: Maybe we just talk to the Myriad, talk to
Korshad and see what we can do. Maybe he needs

something, and we can provide it.

TALIESIN: We are bad news for anybody like that.
I'm sure it would be worth their time to get us

out of town, possibly get you out of town. You
can't be good for business.

SAM: All right. Well, a quick stop to talk to my
sister, possibly, and then let's go at least

investigate this contact.

LIAM: God, this sucks.

SAM: I appreciate you all being here for me. I'm
sorry. I didn't realize that this was going to

happen and I don't want-- if you fellows want to
go back and just continue on, I can solve this.

LIAM: Nah, man! You're one of us now!

LAURA: Just next time you get abducted by a bounty
hunter, give us some warning, would you?

SAM: I'll try. Maybe I should sleep with bells
on.

LAURA: That would be a good idea.

LIAM: You're halfway there.

SAM: Percy, can you make me some?

TALIESIN: Some bells? Absolutely. I'm going to
regret this, but yes.

TRAVIS: Don't do it, man. They tried to make me wear bells.
Don't let them hold you down.

LAURA: I thought you liked that hat.

TALIESIN: I like that you approve of the arranged
marriage, but it's the bells that really--

TRAVIS: Yeah, you don't get to keep eyes on me all
hours of the day.

SAM: All right, I'll walk through the place and look for
sis.

MATT: Okay, and we'll pick up there next week, as
it is 11:00, we'll pick this up.

LAURA: Your dad is not what I expected!

ASHLEY: No!

SAM: (singing) Me, neither!

LAURA: Ugh!

SAM: Mercer!

LAURA: Matthew Mercer.

MATT: What?

LAURA: You have a way of taking our backstories
that we think we've created and then just flipping

it on us.

TALIESIN: Nothing happened.

SAM: No, Grog jumped off a roof and died.

MARISHA: Was it 1,000 feet? Yeah, all right.

LIAM: He actually can take that much damage,
though.

MARISHA: 360 points?

TRAVIS: Yeah, raging, reduced to half. Yep.

MARISHA: Technically, I don't think falling damage
counts as weapon damage. I don't know if you can

take half damage.

MATT: Well, bludgeoning, it would.

TALIESIN: Bludgeoning.

LAURA: Damn it! (laughs)

MARISHA: Oh, half damage.

LAURA: How many hit points do you have?

TRAVIS: A lot.

TALIESIN: He doesn't like to brag.

MATT: Awesome, guys. We'll see how this goes.

TRAVIS: There's not a lot of real sound family
structures in this campaign.

ASHLEY: We all have such terrible families.

LAURA: We all have shitty families.

TRAVIS: Let this be a lesson.

LIAM: Mom was great.

LAURA: Yeah, Mom was real great.

LIAM: She was the best.

TALIESIN: Every fucking moment of my backstory,
man. I'm so excited for this shit.

MATT: Yeah.

TALIESIN: Bonus backstory.

MATT: You guys keep creating-- you act like you
didn't hand me backstories with traumatic

relationships with your parents already.

TRAVIS: You're so dark, man. Why do you make this
shit up?

LIAM: It was years ago!

TALIESIN: One fucking page.

MATT: I take what I'm given, and I extrapolate.

SAM: Yeah, you do.

TALIESIN: You came up with most of that shit off
on your own. You didn't even write it down.

SAM: Yeah, for some of it I had.

MATT: Yeah, he had a lot of it, and then a few
things from this.

TALIESIN: Maryanne was off the cuff?

SAM: No, I think I had their names written down.

MATT: Yeah, you did.

MARISHA: Well, for anyone who has been asking: I
am okay. I did not leap off the cliff out of some

weird parallel allegory.

TRAVIS: What?

LAURA: What?

TALIESIN: I thought it was because your Logan's
Run crystal started flashing.

MARISHA: This was not a cry for help. Not a cry
for help. I thought it was going to be dope.

That's it. I just thought it was going to be cool
as shit, and then it wasn't.

MATT: No, and then it was absolutely was cool as
shit. What are you talking about? That's the kind

of shit that makes D&D. Are you kidding me?

MARISHA: Yeah, you'd know if it's a cry for help.

TRAVIS: Yeah, great take-off, action was amazing.
The finish, though, the landing--

LAURA: Should have stuck the landing.

MATT: Everyone would have remembered a goldfish's
entry into the ocean for five minutes. Everyone is

going to remember Keyleth splattering across the
rocks forever.

TALIESIN: That goldfish wouldn't have remembered
it very long either.

LIAM: I've got this great trick, but I can only do
it once.

MARISHA: In my head, I was an awesome cartoon, and
it worked.

MATT: And it would have, but it got down to the
dice. As always, if I rolled lower than 50%, it

would have been fine.

MARISHA: 100d6 dice, yeah.

MATT: Percentage dice is what I meant, but anyway.
All right, guys. Have a good night, a good

weekend, rest well, and we'll see you guys next
week, and is it Thursday yet? Good night!