MATT: Hello, everyone, and welcome to tonight's
episode of Critical Role, where a bunch of us

nerdy-ass voice actors sit around and play
Dungeons and Dragons.

TRAVIS: That's what we do!

MATT: Yep! So, welcome. We had a brief break last
week as Liam brought us through his delightfully

dark and twisted mind. Thank you again, Liam, for
running that.

LAURA: Creepy!

LIAM: I went to Catholic school!

MATT: It was awesome.

MARISHA: Why am I not surprised?

MATT: So, anyway, glad you could join us. Before
we jump into tonight's game, we have some quick

announcements to make. First and foremost, you
want to talk about some new merch stuff that just

got in there? What the hell you've got right
there?

MARISHA: What's that?

ASHLEY: What are these?

LAURA: What are these? These shirts are in the
store right now! And the color, and they're so

soft, I'll be petting you guys throughout the
whole night.

LIAM: They're soft like the hoodie. They're like a
thin version of the soft hoodie.

LAURA: If you have the Gilmore shirt, it feels
like the Gilmore shirt. Also, the Critical Role

dice are coming back in stock very soon, but they
are on preorder right now in the store. You can go

in and get on that. We also have the CR enamel pin
back in stock, so you can check that shit out in

the store right now. We'll wait.

MATT: Awesome. Let's see. There's a new Signal
Boost coming out this week with kind of a cool

person who hosted that. Who's that?

TRAVIS: DM O'Drien!

LIAM: I am not cool, so you are not talking about
me.

MARISHA: It's actually going to play during the
break.

LIAM: Oh yeah?

MARISHA: Yeah!

LIAM: So you can hear about all my artsy-fartsy
theatrical sad hangups from the past?

Oh joy, guys!

MARISHA: Yeah, yeah! You'll like it! So stick
around!

MATT: Look forward to that. And also, a reminder
that MomoCon's coming up, end of next month, where

Taliesin, Marisha and I will be guests and, as of
recently, our good friend Brian Wayne Foster will

also be joining us for a Talks Machina live panel
at the event, which will be fun.

MATT: MomoCon!

LIAM: Yeah, MomoCon is just fun to say. MomoCon.

LAURA: We're all going to say it.

MATT: Yeah. So we'll be there, it'll be fun. It's
May 25th to the 28th, in Atlanta, Georgia. Look

forward to seeing you guys there.

LIAM: Oh my gosh, oh my gosh!

LAURA: Oh my, what? How? Why?

(laughter)

SAM: It's the start of a new year.

TRAVIS: Why doesn't it wrap around to the back?

SAM: I tried to get the eyes on my nipples.

TRAVIS: Pull it down a little bit. Just give it a
little tug. There it is.

LAURA: I've never realized how large-- Wow, it's
bulging. Those are some bulging eye sausages if

I've ever seen them.

MATT: What's great is when you're not stretching
it, it looks like that dumb FaceApp thing now

where you can see your older version of yourself.

LAURA: Have you noticed, the guys turn into girls
so much better than the girls turn into guys? I

mean, we look so terrible turning into--

MATT: I've seen some girl photos that turned out
pretty good. Maybe it's just you guys.

LAURA: You have to have your hair pulled back.

MATT: It might just be the three of you, I'm
sorry. Although who did Ashley

end up looking like?

MARISHA: Haley Joel Osment.

MATT: Yeah, that worked out pretty well.

ASHLEY: Actually, a lot of people tell me that I
look like him anyway.

LAURA: Really?

ASHLEY: Him or-- I get--

TRAVIS: Brad Pitt?

LAURA: Yeah, definitely Brad Pitt.

ASHLEY: From the '80s band, it's a guy.

TRAVIS: Keep going.

ASHLEY: Justin George?

LIAM: Narrowed it down. Hum a melody.

ASHLEY: I can't think of a song. I'll think of
it.

LIAM: This is the whole episode.

LAURA: And she'll just yell it out during the
break. Travis makes a really ugly woman, though. I

turned one of your pictures into a girl. I never
should have done that.

MATT: I don't agree with that. I've seen Nip
Tuck.

TRAVIS: Thank you, Matt! Thank you.

MATT: A supportive significant other. Wednesday 
Club, Taliesin! Do you want to talk about Wednesday Club?

TALIESIN: Actually, this one, it's going to be
Matt Key is taking the reins on this one, so I

don't even-- I'm not sure he's settled on what's
going on, but I think we were talking about maybe

Brian K. Vaughan and looking at his whole body of
work, which would be a lot of fun.

MATT: There you go, that'll be fun.

TALIESIN: TV writer and comic book writer. Could
be cool.

MATT: Fantastic. And of course we have Talks
Machina next Tuesday, live here on Twitch and

Alpha at 7PM Pacific with our wonderful host,
Brian Wayne Foster.

TRAVIS: Except there won't be one.

MATT: Oh wait, there won't be one this week! Never
mind, 'cause they're going to be on vacation.

TRAVIS: 'Cause you're going out of the country.
They're going to-- Where are you going,

the North Pole?

ASHLEY: I wish we were going to the North Pole. We
are going to Mexico!

MATT: Let's be nice and vague. Going to a place
that's pretty.

ASHLEY: We're going to a place.

MATT: Which, as a note, as far as Brian was
saying, you guys really haven't had a vacation

together, ever.

ASHLEY: Never.

MATT: So, super excited that you guys have the
chance to do that.

ASHLEY: We've almost been dating for five years
and we've never gone on a vacation together.

TRAVIS: Y'all are dating?

(laughter)

LAURA: Wait. What?

MATT: Well, that'll be fun. Yeah!

MARISHA: Also, your Date with Matt Mercer in a
Silk Robe, thanks to Brian Wayne Foster, will be

up on YouTube tomorrow at 10AM.

MATT: Ho boy.

MARISHA: Is that okay?

MATT: Yeah, it's fine. Prepare for a lot of port
drinking.

ASHLEY: Boy George! Boy George! I get it a lot. I
get that.

LAURA: What? You don't look like-- With a lot of
makeup, maybe?

MATT: Awesome, so tomorrow? All right, for those
of you guys who missed it, you'll be able to see

it tomorrow. No, that's fine, bring tissues.

TALIESIN: That could go a number of ways.

MATT: That it can.

TALIESIN: Sorry.

MATT: But no, thank you all. Thank you all who
came on Tuesday to chat and talk and create some

fun future characters for this storyline in the
future, it'll be fun. Anyway, do we have anything

else anyone wants to mention, or 
shall we continue?

SAM: Did you already do the shirts?

MATT: We did the shirts.

That is so nightmarish, Sam.

LAURA: I love it.

SAM: It's an homage.

TRAVIS: It looks like Mercer's eating the table.

MATT: What I'm looking forward to is the
eventuality that you have enough of these shirts

that your closet has a section that's just my
face.

SAM: Your face, my face.

MATT: Yeah, it's just this face is printed, and
just having your wife eventually come up to me and

having you go--

SAM: I might have enough that we can all wear one
one night.

(laughter)

SAM: Let me think on that.

MATT: All righty, then, without further ado, let's
jump into tonight's episode of Critical Role.

[dramatic music]

MATT: And welcome back, everyone. So, last we left
off, Vox Machina, having completed a multitude of

various quests over a prolonged period of time,
found themselves free of immediate necessity and

danger.

TRAVIS: What?

MARISHA: Brought peace to the world forever.

MATT: No, that's not true.

MARISHA: Nothing bad will ever happen again.

MATT: (laughs) That's not how this works.

(laughter)

SAM: Credits.

MATT: So, as the last episode wound down and
friendships were strengthened, you all then began

to ponder about what you wanted to do with the
time before you. And today we return approximately

one year after we left off. So, we met earlier
this week to discuss this. We went through a

various number of things you wanted to accomplish,
both as individuals and some of you in groups. So

we're going to go ahead and go over those elements
for you guys and get everyone up to speed with

what exactly has transpired in this year period of
time.

LIAM: Show and tell!

MATT: So, who would like to begin?

SAM: We're just going to share?

LAURA: Just say what we did, what we
accomplished?

LIAM: Summer vacation!

MATT: Share elements of it, and then some elements
will be roleplayed, because that's

what I want to do.

LAURA: Because that's what I want to do.

MATT: Yeah. So.

TRAVIS: Are you pointing at me? Okay, okay. I'll
start.

MATT: All right, so, Grog, what are some of the things
you did?

TRAVIS: Because I single-handedly established
peace across Exandria, I found myself bored, in

need of action. And so I sought out where the
fight would now be. I looked for Scanlan a little

bit along the way. I didn't find him.

MATT: No, you did not.

TRAVIS: I looked for, like, magical items along
the way. I didn't find them. So I went to

Vasselheim, which is where the Slayer's Take is.
And I think before I left, I wanted to get some

personal things, like, done to my body. So I had
the bear tattoo that I filleted of off Kevdak, and

I had it tanned, and then I got a copy of that
tattoo on my back.

MATT: Yeah.

TRAVIS: Because that shit's behind me.

ALL: Ooh!

MATT: So you now have Kevdak's bear-totem tattoo
that was on his chest, now on your back.

TRAVIS: Yep.

MATT: Out of sheer disrespect for him.

TRAVIS: Totes.

MATT: I love it.

LIAM: Did you get a bear ass on your bare ass?

TRAVIS: Much better idea. I also took Kevdak's
skull, the top of it, and I had a new cup, a new

mug made out of it. With metal bits and stuff,
with a handle.

MATT: Yeah, yeah. Okay.

TRAVIS: I don't understand how, but it looks
really great. It's like metal and bone, and I

(drinking sounds). That's me.

MATT: That's delicious.

TRAVIS: I just choked on a peanut.

LAURA: Yeah. Oh Grog. I heard it happen.

TRAVIS: So, I went to Vasselheim, and I defended
my title in the Crucible.

MATT: Yeah. Met multiple times.

TRAVIS: Multiple times.

MATT: Including once against a familiar
individual called Kern the Hammer.

TRAVIS: Kern the Hammer, he came back with that
monk shit.

MATT: Yeah. And did not prevail.

TRAVIS: Nope.

MATT: However, he did come back to you, requesting
to learn and train under you, to teach him your

ways. To which you said--

TRAVIS: I forgot. No. Yes. I said yes.

MATT: You said no.

TRAVIS: I said no.

(laughter)

MATT: That's what you told me, at least.

TRAVIS: I said no. I said no, because I was like,
you've got to drink, all the time, and this, and

he just wasn't up to snuff. That, and I should not
be teaching anyone anything. So then I went to the

Slayer's Take, right, in search of big game. And I
had fun with that for a while, but it just wasn't

quite the same. It wasn't crazy-ass, you know,
ancient dragons or nothing. It just wasn't quite

up to snuff. But I did have my curiosity about the
Deck of Many Things piqued. So, at some point

along the way, Vex's warnings ringing in my ears,
I found a nice drunk sap to--

MATT: So, so, as you are wandering down an evening
byway in the Quadroads of Vasselheim, a number of

cups in yourself, you hiccup loudly and glance off
to the side to find one gentleman who's been far

deeper in his cups and is currently trying to
steady himself against the stone wall in an

alleyway.

TRAVIS: Yup. Hey, you!

MATT: "What?"

TRAVIS: You. You look like a mighty warrior. Do
you need another drink?

MATT: "Oh, if you're buying, yeah."

TRAVIS: Yeah, I do. I have one. And I pour him a
little bit from the keg. Hey, do you have like, a

wife, kids, attachments? Anyone that would miss
you?

MATT: "You think if I did I'd be drinking this
hard?"

TRAVIS: I'm going to take that as a no. Cool, hey,
look, I don't know if you're interested, but I

have, in my possession, something really cool. And
I take out the Deck. Do you know what this is?

MATT: "I have no idea."

TRAVIS: Great! Great! We're in the street, right?

MATT: Yeah. You're near a thoroughfare and there's
a small alley off to the side.

TRAVIS: Good. Follow me into this alley and it'll
be a deal. Just follow me over here.

MATT: Make a persuasion check. With advantage,
because he's really drunk.

MARISHA: For anyone who's watching, this is like,
abduction, how to not-- 101, self-defense.

MATT: This is terrible.

LIAM: I mean, he's either changing this guy's life
for the better, or murdering him.

TRAVIS: 19 plus one.

MATT: (laughs) You watch as in the center of his
pupils a little sparkle of interest kicks in. And,

I mean, five percent soberer at the prospect of
something fun of this stranger that gave him a

drink and goes: "Wait, what are you talking
about?"

TRAVIS: Well, listen. I am kind of like an
evangelical spreader of good news. And I found

this. And one time I pulled a card out and I got a
magic weapon. It was amazing. And I just figured,

like, you look like a guy that would appreciate
such a weapon, so--

MATT: (belches)

TRAVIS: -- and I open the Deck. I thought maybe
you would like to draw a card.

MATT: He takes a second and looks around. Looks at
the Deck. "Is this some sort of a magic trick?"

TRAVIS: Yes. Yep.

MATT: "All right. Do you want me to tell you what
it is?"

TRAVIS: Sure. Yeah. Just draw it and-- Actually,
just hold it and don't tell me what it is.

MATT: Okay. Let me get my cards out.

LAURA: Oh my God.

ASHLEY: You have an actual set?

LAURA: What the actual fuck is 
happening right now?

TRAVIS: It was a fucking year. Did you not think
this was going to happen?

(laughter)

TRAVIS: It probably happened in the first week.

LIAM: This is the first of ten guys.

TRAVIS: Lot of problems, lot of drinking, lot of
fighting. Ran out of shit.

SAM: What if you die? What if you die right now?

TRAVIS: I'm not. He's drawing the card.

LAURA: Yeah, but you could still die.

SAM: It could kill-- It could kill you too.

TRAVIS: Could it?

SAM: I think so.

TRAVIS: I'm not really sure on how this shit
works. But I need another card to

come out of that Deck.

MATT: Yeah, maybe.

LAURA: Oh my God. Oh no, what did he pull. What
did he pull?

MATT: No. No. No. Huh. I'm going to let somebody
else pull this. Who wants to pull it?

TRAVIS: Oh, you raise your hand to pull from the
Deck? Thats some bullshit.

LAURA: Oh no. Should I turn it?

TRAVIS: Ooh. Ooh.

LAURA: Do you know what that is?

TRAVIS: No, I don't remember.

MATT: Okay.

MARISHA: It's just, it looked ominous.

TRAVIS: It was a face card, though.

TALIESIN: It was a face card. Oh. Oh.

MATT: (laughs)

LAURA: Oh no. Is it amazing? Did he get something
really good?

TALIESIN: You're the DM now.

MATT: Hold on. I have to roll a die first.
(laughs) He takes the card and looks at it. Turns

around and shows you, and it's this tarot card of
a beautiful moonscape, with an open night sky. I

believe that's what it is. Yeah, that's what it
is. He puts it back in the Deck, and is like: "All

"right, what's the trick? I'm-- I'm feeling a
little-- a little strange."

TRAVIS: Could you describe to me how you feel
right now?

MATT: And he's like trying to contemplate it. He
goes: "Wait a second.

"I wish that I was a powerful lord of the 
Quadroads."

And there's a strange,
tingling visual image as the cloth around him that

was tattered and worn-out becomes beautiful
silks--

LAURA: Oh my God.

MATT: The drunkenness fades from him
ever-so-slightly, and now he looks washed. And you

glance over at the far end of the alleyway, and
there's a guy there who's dressed in long, long

tails and a coat and goes: "Sir, how long are you
going to be?"

He goes: "Right with you. I don't even know what 
his name is. Well, thank you so much, stranger."

And he pats you on the shoulder.

TRAVIS: Grog. Grog.

MATT: "Grog."

TRAVIS: Grog Strongjaw.

MATT: "Grog Strongthings."

TRAVIS: Maker of kings.

MATT: "Great."

TRAVIS: Yup.

MATT: "I still got one more of these." And he
walks off and runs off to the carriage.

LAURA: He got two wishes?

MATT: 1d3 wishes.

TRAVIS: Are you fucking serious?

SAM: Wait, he got two wishes? You gave away two
wishes?

TRAVIS: (shouts) Wait! What was your name?

MATT: The queen of diamonds was the card.

TRAVIS: Did I get his name?

MATT: You didn't get his name. He just runs off.

TALIESIN: Lord of the Quadroads, now.

SAM: You just got a cure for cancer, and you gave
it away?

LAURA: Wait, wait, I have a question. Once a card
has been pulled, is it gone from the Deck, or does

it go back in?

LIAM: Some go back, and some--

LAURA: Oh my God.

TRAVIS: I should just pull all of these right
now.

(groaning)

TRAVIS: I mean, obviously, it was just a little
appetizer, the first one.

MATT: Well, let me see here. Let me see. Let me
see.

TRAVIS: That is way better.

TALIESIN: (laughs) You want to pull another one.

SAM: Matt's verifying.

LAURA: Verifying that he did the right thing?

TRAVIS: He's double-checking.

SAM: This is important.

LAURA: I know. Yeah.

MATT: Once the card is drawn, it fades from
existence.

TALIESIN: Oh there's no other-- No, the Wish card
goes.

MATT: Yeah.

LAURA: The best card is fucking gone. It is the
best card, isn't it?

LIAM: Now the Deck is slightly shittier.

SAM: Way shittier!

MATT: But you know what?

TRAVIS: You know what? Only one person picked that
card from the Deck. So it's not really my fault.

SAM: It's Laura's fault?

TALIESIN: Good roll, Laura.

LAURA: Thank you, thank you. Hey, man.

MATT: That one's gone, now.

TALIESIN: Lord of the Quadroads now owes you a
favor.

LAURA: Yeah!

MARISHA: That's true!

TRAVIS: It was the queen of diamonds, right?
Yeah.

ASHLEY: I say, at the end of all this, we all pick
one.

LIAM: Who was that man? That was Taliesin Jaffe,
Mayor of Ren Faire!

TALIESIN: Huzzah!

ASHLEY: Huzzah!

LAURA: What's going on, Matt?

MATT: Just double-checking to make sure the card
goes away, and it does, according to how it's

written.

TRAVIS: Clearly, nobody in my group knows what
they're talking about.

This Deck is a mighty gift!

LAURA: Fuck.

TALIESIN: We're doomed.

TRAVIS: And I put it back in the Bag of Holding.

MATT: Okay. I was like, "Oh god, is he going to
draw another card?"

LIAM: Two-hour combat scenario.

TRAVIS: I want to, really bad, but I have an open
bar tab.

MATT: Okay then! You, in your time away, radically
changed some poor man's life! And, apparently,

Wished himself to some level of nobility within
the Quadroads of Vasselheim, with one Wish still

standing!

LAURA: That's amazing.

TRAVIS: Okay!

MARISHA: Remember that guy.

TRAVIS: Lord of the Crossroads? Quadroads?

MATT: Well, there are many lords and ladies of the
Quadroads, he's just now one of them.

TRAVIS: Good deal. That happened.

MATT: I was thinking to myself it was either going
to be that or some grim reaper's going to show up

and cut his head off.

TRAVIS: That's all I wanted, really. Just cheer
him on, maybe have a little better counterweight

for my expectation of the Deck, but now I just
want to pull one every day. Nothing but good shit

happens! Magic weapon! Fucking Wishes!

MATT: So if this happened early in your year, do
you still resist the urge as the year progresses?

LAURA: Oh no.

TRAVIS: No.

LAURA: Oh, Jesus!

TALIESIN: Yay!

MATT: How long does it take until the urge 
creeps up again?

TRAVIS: I mean, oh god, why do I have to be so
fucking true to my character?

TALIESIN: There's nothing we can do!

LAURA: We're not even there!

LIAM: Probably thinks he has three birthdays a
year, right? So.

TRAVIS: I will probably wait to take it back so
that I can open it with my good friend, Pike.

Because she'll understand that this is an awesome
deck.

MATT: Which actually plays into her opening. The
other thing you did, which happens towards the end

of the year, is you said you went to the
Frostweald.

TRAVIS: I did, yeah. I was curious about the
werewolves. So I went to go see the nymph in the

frozen lake. You know, the one that's all about
Grog.

MATT: Mm-hm.

TRAVIS: So I had a conversation with her, and I
felt really bad because I wasn't as affectionate

as last time, so I gave her this palm-sized ruby
that was at the bottom of the bag. Looked really

pretty, so I gave it to her.

MATT: She thanked you.

TRAVIS: She did. We hit it off. And I asked her if
the werewolves were just in the Feywild.

Turns out--

MATT: Lycanthropy is scattered throughout the
planes.

TRAVIS: Well, I didn't fucking know that.

MATT: Now you do. She passed that information on
to you. All right. So. That's the truncated

example of Grog's year. We might come back to it
here in a minute. Next up would be Pike, because

that's a good transition point there. So, what'd
you do?

ASHLEY: All right. So I followed, in the
beginning-- did the guy pick the Deck in

Vasselheim? Or were you--

MATT AND TRAVIS: It was in Vasselheim.

ASHLEY: So I went with Grog to Vasselheim. And
because I wanted to go and read and

work on some things--

MATT: Check in on your temple that you built
there.

ASHLEY: Yes. I ended up fighting (laughs) because
I saw him fight, and I was like, oh, I should

probably just try it!

TRAVIS: Yeah!

ASHLEY: And did well.

MATT: Yeah!

ASHLEY: I'm the second champion under Grog.

LAURA: Fuck yes!

MATT: And as everyone was pitting both of you
against each other for another championship bout,

you both decided to--

ASHLEY: Do it. No! To fight!

TRAVIS: To kill each other.

ASHLEY: We didn't end up doing it.

TRAVIS: Nope.

ASHLEY: We just shook--

TRAVIS: Yep.

ASHLEY -- and we knew both of us were just too
powerful--

TRAVIS: Too true!

ASHLEY: -- and I would win. So we just decided not
to do it.

TRAVIS: Two monsters of a feather stay in
leather.

ASHLEY: Two monsters of a feather. Also, in that
time, which was a five-month period, we had a lot

of lessons and taught Grog how to read.

LAURA: Yay!

ASHLEY: Just a little bit.

TRAVIS: Just a little.

MATT: You can slowly read four- to five-letter
words.

MARISHA: Five-letter words is a big deal!

LAURA: That's a big fucking deal.

MATT: He knows how to write his name now.

LAURA: Yeah!

MATT: And he can write a full sentence over a
short rest.

TRAVIS: Yep.

(laughter)

TRAVIS: Meat. Cat.

LIAM: Farts. Farts.

TRAVIS: Doody, with a Y.

MARISHA: Does he get exhausted from reading?

MATT: We'll cross that bridge when we get to it.

(laughter)

ASHLEY: Wait, what did you ask?

MARISHA: If he gets mentally exhausted from
reading. Takes a point of exhaustion when he tries

to read.

ASHLEY: I'm so tired!

TRAVIS: I'm tired now!

ASHLEY: I took some time to learn how to be just a
little bit more stealthy.

LAURA: Yeah!

ASHLEY: Just did a little bit of training. Not a
ton, but maybe, we'll see. I also went to check on

great-great-grandpappy Wilhand to see how he was
doing, and he's doing fine. He's older.

MATT: Wilhand. Yeah, he's doing good. The home
that was damaged in the Umbrasyl attack on

Westruun, your room has been repaired. Though it's
taken a little while, because it's mainly just him

hiring who he can at the time. But he's doing
well. He's "an old gnome, but still kicking

"around! Still doing his best, still doing his
prayers to Sarenrae,

"glad to see you coming, saying hi."

ASHLEY: Oh, of course. Always.

MARISHA: Does he still have Fassbender?

ASHLEY: I've totally forgot about Fassbender!
Didn't he die?

LAURA: No, no, no, we left Fassbender with him.

ASHLEY: Oh shit, I forgot about Fassbender.

SAM: No, I thought that we lost him in the dragon
fight.

LAURA: No, no, no, we left him with Wilhand.

ASHLEY: He's keeping him safe. He probably helped
build the house.

MATT: If you ask him about that, ask him where
Fassbender is, he's like, "Oh, this nice older

"fella came by and said it was his property? So I
gave it back to him. He seemed very--"

LAURA: It was that dick.

MATT: "-- very intent on receiving his property,
and I wasn't about to argue."

ASHLEY: That's okay.

LAURA: He was technically his.

ASHLEY: It was technically his. I also sent a
little bit of money to -- I don't know where they

are, but I hired somebody to send a letter and
some money to some of my family.

MATT: Yeah, some of the Trickfoots.

ASHLEY: Yeah. And what else? Oh, last, but
certainly not least, we opened up a bakery.

SAM: Oh, yeah!

LAURA: Yes we did!

SAM: What's it called?

ASHLEY: It's called-- tell 'em.

LAURA: It's called-- well, this was Tary's idea--
it's called the Slayer's Cake.

ASHLEY: And we have many, many items.

LAURA: Delicious Sun Treats.

ASHLEY: Sun Treats. Bear Claws. Angel Food Cake.

MARISHA: Some Tree Bark that Keyleth made.

ASHLEY: So many treats and treasures.

SAM: Bear Claws?

MARISHA: Definitely Bear Claws, yeah. Out of
Whitestone, of course.

LAURA: Obviously, yeah.

MATT: Bear Claws? Is that it? Did you guys make
Bear Claws?

ASHLEY: So Tary, Keyleth, Vex and I just decided
on a drunken evening, we were like, we should open

up a bakery!

LAURA: Let's just fuckin' do it!

(laughter)

LAURA: We found this building that was pretty
abandoned in Whitestone, we fuckin' put in a

bakery.

MARISHA: We should just do this tomorrow. We
should do it tomorrow.

MATT: Whitestone needs more commerce.

LAURA: That's right.

ASHLEY: It does.

MATT: And there are plenty of vacant buildings
that are starting to fill up as

people move back in.

LAURA: That's why we did it, 'cause we wanted to
help the economy.

MARISHA AND ASHLEY: Yeah.

TALIESIN: Anything to get you out of the wine
cellar is such a good idea.

MARISHA: Yeah. Plus, small-business tax breaks, it
was good all the way around.

TALIESIN: You're not getting a tax break.

MARISHA: What?

ASHLEY: I did try looking for Scanlan at one
point.

MATT: You did, yeah.

ASHLEY: But I couldn't find him.

MATT: Yeah. It led you all the way to Emon, I
think it was, then it went cold. Yeah.

ASHLEY: Yeah. Yes. And what was the last thing.
Oh, we went to go see--

MATT: We'll get to that.

ASHLEY: -- something great.

MATT: Yeah, we'll get to that.

ASHLEY: Yeah. So that's what I did on my year of
break.

MATT: All right, who wants to go next?

SAM: Are we going in order, or-- what are we
doing?

LAURA: I mean, I guess we can, yeah. All right,
well, I spent my beginning of the year trying to

find the baby of the Grey Render that I sent on
its way. Mortally.

MATT: Yes, you discovered that there was an
offspring. There was a singular offspring in the

Parchwood, not too far from where you saw it
emerge in your vision. And upon finally finding

it, it was young and defensive and feral and,
after--

LAURA: Very angry.

MATT: Very angry. And day after day you returned
with various foods and meat and trying to connect

with it, and did not succeed.

LAURA: I did not. I failed miserably.

LIAM: So many shit rolls.

LAURA: So many shit rolls!

MATT: Yeah. It fled southward into the Parchwood,
and while you now have sent your Grey Hunt that is

now working below you to keep an eye out for it,
it has not been seen since.

LAURA: Yes. I am on the lookout in case it comes
close to our territory. I want to keep our people

safe. But I'm not going to go and try to kill it
just for the shits.

MATT: Yeah.

LAURA: Yeah. I also built my house!

MATT: Mm-hm.

LAURA: Yes! New house, new house! And built up the
guard. And I made a nice little animal sanctuary

for Trinket, a nice garden area for him to hang
out in, and other wildlife should they so desire.

Oh, and Tary, Tary moved in.

SAM: I didn't have a place to stay.

LAURA: And I have such a large house, you might as
well just come and live over here, right?

SAM: Well, I mean, if you'll have me.

LAURA: Of course, darling!

SAM: I can sleep on a couch.

LAURA: No, no, no, you'll have your own room.

SAM: Excellent, because I don't think I could
sleep on a couch.

(laughter)

LAURA: You're wonderful.

SAM: You're not so bad, either.

LAURA: Oh, you! And I became, for Whitestone, the
ambassador to Syngorn. So I'm working on making a

Teleportation Circle, is that what they're
called?

MATT: Yeah. You're having a Teleportation Circle
placed within your estate in Whitestone, and at

the end of the year it's still two weeks out from
creation. So it's going to take a little while

longer, but it is in the process.

LAURA: Trying to make amends, to make peace with
my father, trying to forgive and grow and move on.

And while Tary was living in the house--

SAM: Braiding hair.

LAURA: Oh my gosh, just doing so many things, we
decided to make armor out of Vorugal, so I have

new white dragon leather armor that Tary helped me
enchant. Actually, that Tary enchanted and I hung

out with him, for five months, while he did that.

MATT: Yeah.

SAM: Yeah, that happened.

(laughter)

SAM: A lot of hard work, but I learned something
from it.

LAURA: Yeah, that I'm really good company,
basically.

SAM: Yeah, yep. She knows two songs. She sings
them all the time.

(laughter)

LAURA: And Trinket gives amazing massages.

SAM: That's true.

LAURA: Yes. I think that's pretty much it, outside
of the bakery, which has taken up a lot of time,

really.

MATT: Yeah. You did also research some--

LAURA: Yes! I spent a fuckton of time! I'm
building up my library in the house, so I spent a

lot of time researching Orcus and the Raven Queen
and learning everything that I can about all of

them. All of them.

MATT: All right. And Vax?

LIAM: Everything's going to start to get a little
intertwined here now.

MATT: Which is why I led it along this way, so,
yeah.

LIAM: Yeah, yeah. So, overarching theme is, there
was a lot of Zephra and chill.

(laughter)

LIAM: Enjoyed not being on death's door every
fucking day and relaxing and being the right hand

of the Queen back in Zephra, and--

MARISHA: Chief.

LIAM: I'm still learning the lingo. Getting to
know Korren a bit more. Keyleth helped me-- I let

a lot of blood and made a small altar to the Raven
Queen in Zephra and it's been all flowered and

vined out. And while we spent most of our time--
Oh, tattoos, want to talk tattoos?

MARISHA: Yeah, since Keyleth-- the mantle's a
little heavy and flashy and a little formal to

wear all the time, but wanted something to still
represent my chiefdom.

SAM: Did you get antlers tattooed on your face?

(laughter)

MATT: Just right there.

LAURA: Ooh, that actually could be pretty tight.
Like those elves in Dragon Age.

MARISHA: Keyleth goes hard, yeah. No, I got the
traditional Ashari tattoos of the mantle across

her chest and shoulders to mimic that.

LAURA: That's super tight.

LIAM: We went together. Yours took much longer
than mine did. Yeah.

MARISHA: It took a while. It's old
needle-and-hammer style. All traditional.

LIAM: Yeah, and about two-thirds of the way
through yours, they started on mine, which is just

a pair of antlers on the right bicep here.

MARISHA: See, he got the antlers.

SAM: Nice.

LAURA: Oh, did you really?

LIAM: I did. Not on my face.

LAURA: Oh, that's great. That's so cute.

MATT: Right next to the barbed wire.

LIAM: Yeah. Keyleth for life. So we spent a lot of
time in Zephra, but since have-druid-will-travel,

we met up with these two quite a bit. About once a
month, we would have three- or four-day weekends.

We'd spent time in Whitestone. We went to
Vasselheim a lot. The twins spent a lot of time in

the library.

LAURA: Yes, we did.

LIAM: Reading a ton. I spent a lot of time at the
Raven Queen's temple, getting to know the people

there, getting to know what the hell a cleric or a
priest or a paladin of the Raven Queen does, since

I didn't really have any time to do that.

MATT: Part of your process there, once you had
been fully accepted into the Order there, some of

the few responsibilities you had were, you were
called whenever relatively important figures in

the city had passed away, to go and give rites
when they were interred and be present during a

number of funerals in there. That was one of the
earlier responsibilities that was given to you

within Vasselheim while you were there.

LIAM: I tried to do a little observing, too, in
Zephra as well. I didn't want to interfere with

their customs, but it's like working at a funeral
home, and over time you just get used to it. A couple

of bits and pieces. I saw everybody, really. I
went on a man's weekend with Grog and killed

things, that was awesome. Talked a lot of shop
with Pike. God talk. The girls went off on their

own a little bit, so I spent time trying to figure
out what it was Percival does in his workshop. He

lent me a book about the history of Whitestone.

TALIESIN: I did, I also sent you on a tour of the
frescoes, it was quite nice.

LIAM: It's beautiful, once you're not screaming,
running on fire, you can really take in art and

pass notes.

TALIESIN: It had been years since I'd done it
without being on fire, running around. Yes.

LIAM: Also tried to locate Dr. Dranzel in an
effort to find Scanlan, but was unsuccessful.

MATT: Yes.

TRAVIS: You ate raw meat with me.

LIAM: Yeah, and kept it down.

TRAVIS: You did. Like a champ.

SAM: Do you like me? Check this box.

LIAM: Are we married? Yes or no.

(laughter)

TALIESIN: Check one. Carry on, carry on.

LIAM: Oh, and last thing, Vex took me to Syngorn
on one of her trips. Spent some time with little

sis. Not as much time with Dad. Some time with
Dad. We're all right.

LAURA: Eh, it's whatever.

LIAM: It's fine.

MATT: Yeah, you've arranged a respect. There is no
familial bond, per se, with him, but a lot of the

tension has died away and there is a business,
positive interaction.

LAURA: Yeah, there's finally this feeling that we
don't need-- at least, for me-- his approval

anymore, which is very nice.

MATT: No, and he acknowledges that, and he seems
both simultaneously proud and sad, almost a mild

regret that, perhaps, I think he realizes now what
he missed out on.

LAURA: How fucking cool we are?

MATT: Kind of.

SAM: Well, you were until that.

(laughter)

LAURA: Just so fucking cool. Thanks for the note.

LIAM: In character, in character. You know, elfs
going to elf, and there's

no getting around that, so.

MATT: Exactly. All righty, and I think I'm to
Marisha as Keyleth. Keyleth,

what you got going on?

MARISHA: Okay, so once again, lot of intertwining
starting to go on. Got our tattoos, took a little

bit of time. One of the big things that Keyleth
did over the course of the year, which took a

massive majority of her time, was she went on a
diplomacy mission to all four of the tribes as

well as Emon and Whitestone, and with the help of
Percy and Tary, we came up with a system that we

are calling the Crisis Orbs system, is what you
called it? Where we put magical orbs in each of

the cities that are basically giant panic beacons.
And each city got assigned a separate color, to

where if anything goes terribly wrong, someone can
hit that beacon and all of the crystals will light

up and whoever can respond first will do so.

MATT: Yeah.

TRAVIS: What if some shitty 11-year-old kid just
runs up and hits it?

MATT: They are heavily under guard.

TRAVIS: Oh. Smart thinking.

SAM: By a 12-year-old.

MARISHA: It's like how calling 911 is illegal. You
don't do that. You don't do that..

TALIESIN: You're not allowed in that room.
(laughs)

MARISHA: Yes, 'cause Keyleth does definitely--
Keyleth and a lot of the other Ashari dealt with a

little bit of guilt after Cinderking Thordak, and
wanted to make sure that if anything tragically

goes wrong again, we can potentially be faster to
respond. And have allies nearby. So that was a

massive part of it. I also went to Whitestone and
grabbed a little sprig off of the Sun Tree to

propagate one of my own trees back in Vesrah.
Spent a lot of time working on my alchemy, in

between. I imagine we have would have crafting
parties in Whitestone, yeah? And then, you know, I

would do some alchemy.

LAURA: I made friendship bracelets, she worked on
her alchemy. So--

MARISHA: Yeah, yeah. It was great. It was great.
And he made dragon armor.

SAM: I was just making that fuckin' armor.

(laughter)

LAURA: It looked so good.

LIAM: Girl better appreciate.

MATT: It's not like you have to make the armor,
you commission the armor. You enchanted it for

five months.

SAM: That's right.

MARISHA: Took trips with Vax, and had him as my
right-hand man.

LIAM: Unnecessary bodyguard, yeah.

MATT: Yeah.

LAURA: What's his official title?

SAM: Unnecessary bodyguard.

(laughter)

LIAM: It's Puddin'.

MATT: Coattails of The Tempest.

MARISHA: Sir Vax. The Gothy One.

SAM: Cervix?

(laughter)

MATT: Maybe not that one!

LIAM: That's Cervex.

LAURA: I like it.

(laughter)

MATT: And thus, another meme was built.

(laughter)

MATT: Okay, and since you were the last of one of
the intertwined events, the four of you-- Keyleth,

Vax, Vex, and Pike-- all took a specific trip.

LAURA: And Tary.

MATT: I'm sorry, Tary came along too. So the five
of you guys took a journey into the Feywild in

search of the Theatre.

LIAM: (sings) The fuckin' Theatre.

TALIESIN: It was amazing-- I wasn't there, but it
was amazing.

MATT: You weren't there.

MARISHA: Such a good show.

LAURA: They integrated rap, too. It was like--

SAM: History? Wow.

LAURA: Yeah, it was like a whole new way to tell
history. It was just so good.

MATT: (laughs) So after searching for a few days,
up northward in the forest where you recall seeing

portions of the tree-- canopy line shifting and
seemingly vanishing and then reappearing, you

eventually stumbled upon a large, wooden
structure-- circular and tall, almost like a giant

crown of wood, it sat there-- and noticed that the
mists that hugged the base of this marsh, as it's

slowly recovering since Sondur fell. Still thick
marshland, but not quite as disgusting and corrupt

as it once was. The mists that clouded this area
were all gathering towards this wooden structure,

and you begin to see shapes in the mist. Heads.
Faces. Bodies. And you begin to realize that these

were all spirits of the marsh being summoned to
this structure. You all went, disguised as various

small flying insects-- or beast creatures-- and
managed to stealth into the entrance doors, into

this mossy marsh-rotted wood structure, and on the
inside saw the mist form an audience, within the

inside of this Globe Theatre-like structure, upon
which the central platform remained. A strange,

crystalline spark began to form upon that stage,
where a doorway opened and then, stepping from it,

a half-dozen elvish-looking figures, though their
skin is pale white-gray, their eyes white and

iris-less, their limbs lithe and thinner and
longer than elves you're used to seeing in your

experience. And, while none of you could
understand-- or most of you could understand the

language except for Keyleth and Taryon, I think it
was?

MARISHA: No, we were the ones that could.

MATT: Yeah, you guys were the only ones who could
understand it because you both knew Sylvan.

MARISHA: Correct.

MATT: What you saw was a brilliant three-act
performance for the undead spirits of the

surrounding marsh. Unaware of the serious danger
if any of you had been discovered. (laughs)

LIAM: Do tell, Matt.

LAURA: Yeah, I know. I want to know.

MATT: No. You don't know.

LIAM: Aliens!

MATT: Go back. Go back. However, you watched the
performance entirely, did not gather their

attention. At which, the entity stepped back into a
doorway, and it closed off and you absconded from

the Theatre before the rest of the audience could
shift its way out and become the mists of the

Forests once again.

LIAM: This is their most sacred ceremony or
something?

MATT: You don't know.

LIAM: I don't.

MATT: You only know what they told you.

TALIESIN: You only have what I told you later,
it's pretty much--

MATT: Yeah. So as you guys returned from this and
described your experience to Percy, the only person

who really had spent a large portion of his youth
researching the Feywild, and having an interest in

these Fey creatures and their societies--

LAURA: He didn't want to go! Yeah, he had things
to copy.

TALIESIN: I had things to do, I wasn't entirely
clear about what you were planning to do. My god!

MARISHA: Sorry.

TALIESIN: No, it's great! You didn't die, you
weren't kidnapped,

your soul wasn't taken, you weren't--

LAURA: That could've happened?

TALIESIN: Yes, you watched the--

MARISHA: The Royal Troupe of the--

TALIESIN AND MARISHA: Unseelie Court.

TALIESIN: For god's sakes. Yes, a lot could've
happened. They have these little vignettes on

occasion that they use to sort of-- it's like a
nice little trap. They just like to grab people

and use them for various things, no one really
knows because no one ever comes back.

LIAM: Who are 'they'? The 'Unseelie court'?

TALIESIN: They're sort of the shadow court, I
suppose. They would be the-- for everything that

you saw in the Feywild, they are the thing that
the Feywild is a little sketchy about and a little

worried about.

LAURA: Ooh.

LIAM: Well, listen, man. If I can't have the arts
in my life, I'd rather be dead.

TALIESIN: I respect that.

(laughter)

TALIESIN: And I'm very impressed. You're going to
have to draw everything. You're going to have to

draw everything. It's very important.

LIAM: They looked like Slendermen.

TALIESIN: I don't know what that means.

LAURA: Very tall and slender.

SAM: They kept singing about a Technicolor
Dreamcoat.

(laughter)

TALIESIN: I have a book about that.

(laughter)

MATT: All right. So. Your adventure to finally
find the Theatre, complete. I believe that

concludes your immediate ventures. Percival.

TALIESIN: I had the least vacation-y of anybody's
vacation.

MATT: Of course you did.

TALIESIN: 'Cause I have technically been on
vacation for many, many years. I finally took the

mantle of responsibility for not necessarily-- I'm
not ruling Whitestone, that's not how it works,

but I did take on a lot of the civic
responsibility.

MATT: Yeah, you guys converted into the Chamber of
Whitestone.

TALIESIN: Yes.

MATT: Which is less of a singular family ruling
and more of a small series of offices held by

Lords or Ladies.

TALIESIN: I hired someone to help run the-- my
workshop.

SAM: I was doing a lot of work.

(laughter)

SAM: Mornings at the bakery--

(laughter)

SAM: -- afternoons at the workshop, and then an
hour and a half every night enchanting it.

LAURA: Yeah.

TALIESIN: And then we drink.

SAM: Yeah.

LAURA: But didn't it feel good, Tary, to get your
hands dirty?

SAM: It did. I got this thing on my finger, I was
later told that that's what happens when you work

with your hands.

(laughter)

SAM: It's a blister! Yeah.

TRAVIS: How awful.

TALIESIN: So, with the help, I had time to start
working on a few projects. I finally made a new

pair of glasses. Well, I tried.

MATT: You tried.

TALIESIN: To make a new pair of glasses.

MATT: You rolled a one. And then you rolled a
two.

TALIESIN: And then I rolled again and tried to
make a new pair of glasses. And then I realized

it's very, very hard to make a pair of glasses
when you can't see what you're doing because you

don't have a pair of glasses.

SAM: Warby Parker.

TALIESIN: So then I actually called Tary and said,
please fix these for me. He made very, very nice

glasses. I think they have your name inscribed on
them, they're really gaudy.

SAM: Rose gold is the best.

TALIESIN: White gold. White gold. Please.

(laughter)

TALIESIN: It's got to match the outfit. I
automated the system for making shot and powder

for the castle. I created a royal guard that-- and
have been training an elite group of soldiers

specifically to guard the family and the house.
They were the Whitestone Musketeers until

Cassandra said that that was silly and so they
were called the Riflemen.

MATT: Riflemen of Whitestone.

TALIESIN: Yeah, the Riflemen of Whitestone.
(whispers) Musketeers.

(laughter)

MATT: "I'm sorry, Percy, but no."

TALIESIN: No. I get vetoed a lot, these days.

(laughter)

TALIESIN: I began modernizing the city. I have a
wonderful dream of turning Whitestone into a

shining beacon on the hill of what the future of
mankind could be. And the first order of business,

one of two big projects that we've started to
bring forth our reputation as this modern city, is

we've been running steam pipes from the depths
through the main streets so that the snow never

needs to be uncovered, so that the streets are
always clean, and a few of the major houses can be

heated this way during the heavy winters.

MATT: It's a heavy endeavor, it's going to take a
while to complete.

TALIESIN: It's not completed yet.

MATT: It's begun work.

TALIESIN: We're also trying to create some series
of illuminations at least within the main castle

in case the thing in the basement that we're still
working on ever turns on us and suddenly we are

un-magiced, which is a constant fear. I've
upgraded, with Taryon's help, we've upgraded

several of my inventions. I've had a proper sword
of my family crest made. I finally got the glove

more-or-less working. More working, honestly, but
I'll get into that later. I've been desperately

trying to get you to stop going out into the woods
to stop searching for that bloody thing.

LAURA: I've been a bit obsessed, I'm sorry.

TALIESIN: That covers quite a bit of it,
at this point.

MATT: Yeah. That's pretty much everything you've
got here.

TRAVIS: What'd you kill, in the year that you had
off?

SAM: Time.

TALIESIN: Time, and things in the woods, on
occasion. We go hunting. And I've also been

training men how to use their guns, so there's
been a bit of that.

TRAVIS: Boring.

MATT: All right.

LIAM: Did you catch a whiff of Galdrick out in
woods?

LAURA: I've seen a wolf, out and about, but he
seems to do his job well, and I'm not going to

stop him.

TALIESIN: Technically an honorary member of the
Grey Hunt, I'd say.

LAURA: Yes, quite.

MATT: All right. And Taryon.

SAM: Well...

Taryon had a great year.

MATT: You're such a terrible person.

SAM: You've heard much of what he's done. Mainly
just building and working and working and

building. And in his spare time, he built and
worked on things for himself. Chief among them,

Doty! Doty 2.0, take this down.

MATT: "Tary."

SAM: Yes, see?

TRAVIS: Oh he fucking talks!

SAM: A little bit. Doty, how handsome am I?

MATT: "Tary."

SAM: I heard "very". And Doty, what do you say
when it's windy outside?

MATT: "Tary."

SAM: It's airy. Right? That's what I heard. Oh no,
boo!

MATT: "Tary?"

SAM: Yeah, it is scary. He says a lot of things.
It depends on the context, you have to sort of

figure out what he's saying. But he can say that,
he can say one word. It took a lot of money to do

that, but it was worth it. He's also got a couple
of upgrades. He's got a waterproof slot for the

book inside of him so he can store my book.

MATT: The door itself is also a crest.

SAM: Yes, the crest of Vox Machina, right on his
chest, emblazoned there. His arm works a little

differently, his right arm, which we might see in
some sort of competition at some point. And his

left arm, thanks to Percival Fredrickstein von
Mussel de something.

TALIESIN: Bless you.

SAM: He's got a little hole right here in his
hand, that--

LAURA: That you... never mind.

(laughter)

TRAVIS: That was amazing!

LIAM: Our hero!

TALIESIN: You're gonna pay for that, oh my God, I
can feel the radiation.

TRAVIS: It can't be for anything else. Anything
else won't compare. Just change it.

LAURA: Just a little hole.

TRAVIS: Itty-bitty little hole.

LIAM: How wide is the hole?

SAM: It's got some girth.

TALIESIN: Well-machined.

SAM: But it can fire a shot, a bullet shot. I've
never used it before, but it can shoot something.

TALIESIN: It can.

MATT: Once, and then takes a short rest to
reload.

SAM: Yep. And I think that's the major
improvements to Doty, other than the speaking and

the other stuff. Let's see, what else did I do?

LIAM: You told me one other thing. Did that get
jettisoned?

SAM: Oh, I also bought him-- I bought a lot of
stuff. I'm almost out of money, guys.

TRAVIS: What?

LAURA: But you're making some, with the bakery.

SAM: That is not what I would call money.

TALIESIN: You are technically a civil servant as
well, so you're making money there.

SAM: No, I'm talking about actual money that you
can buy things with. I bought

Doty a pair of boots.

MATT: Yep.

SAM: The Boots of--

TALIESIN: Wow, that's a lot of cards!

SAM: Yeah, I bought a lot of stuff. The Boots of
Elvenkind, so he's a little more stealthy when we

go around.

LAURA: Don't you have those, too?

SAM: I also tinkered with my armor, or did I have
it tinkered on?

MATT: You don't know how to make armor, so you
had the armor commissioned, using the remains of

Vorugal's hide. No, sorry, you have Vorugal-- the
remains of Umbrasyl's hide.

SAM: Yes, so I have breastplate armor that has
black dragon scales embedded in it, right?

MATT: Yes.

SAM: And it gives me a little more protection
against acid, and it also looks cool. A little

darker flair. And so I could communicate with
them, I built myself a little earring-- it's a

little different from yours, it dangles and it's
got a nice gem on the end, because if you're going

to wear it, at least look good. And also, in my
spare time at Vex's house, when she was asleep--

she's a snorer-- sometimes I would be awake and I
would examine her broom a bit and decided to make

myself one too.

(gasping)

LAURA: Sneaky sneak!

TRAVIS: You made a broom?

LAURA: You know we have a fucking flying carpet?

SAM: Now we have two brooms. We can leave those
fuckers in the dust!

LAURA: That's pretty fucking cool.

(laughter)

TRAVIS: You really have no money left.

SAM: I am out of money. I have a teeny bit left.
But I also bought some other things.

TALIESIN: He's now going to become Whitestone's
FedEx though.

LIAM: Are we all getting any prezzies?

SAM: Are you back? You were gone?

MATT: All right, is that the end of that?

SAM: And I wrote. A lot.

MATT: Yes.

SAM: Just a lot of writing, and I'm probably
halfway through that book by now.

MATT: Awesome. All right. So as the months go by
and you all have your individual adventures, as

you converse and talk amongst yourselves, the date
of Winter's Crest begins to creep up. Now,

Winter's Crest is a day that's really only
celebrated in Tal'Dorei proper-- occasionally by

people in other places who migrated away from
Tal'Dorei, but the event that it's based around,

Eravon the Ice Lord, was specific to Tal'Dorei.
It's not celebrated everywhere in the world.

However, it is coming up, and you all decided to
celebrate your Winter's Crest festival this year,

not in Tal'Dorei. You all instead made your way
towards the Bay of Gifts, in Marquet.

MARISHA: Tropical vacation.

MATT: Now, how are you guys getting there? Are you
taking a leisurely boat trip?

Are you going via trees?

TALIESIN: Well, we were leaving from Whitestone,
right?

LAURA: We were leaving from Whitestone because
we'd all gathered there for--

MATT: Oh, that's right, before you even left
there, you--

TALIESIN: That's right, as you were saying, it is
based on that festival, and of course Whitestone

has its own paganistic rituals dating back many,
many years.

LIAM: I've read about them.

TALIESIN: Yes, you have now.

LIAM: And I will start telling you about it.

TALIESIN: I've so many text files to send you, my
word. So usually at this time, the winter

solstice, especially when we have a new Master or
Mistress of the Grey Hunt, there's usually a

celebration or a ball, and they're not every
single winter's festival, but it does happen, but

since this was the first, we decided to have a fancy
party. She was bestowed with her crest and

otherwise and we all dressed up.

MARISHA: Did she get a dope crown?

TALIESIN: You don't get a crown, you get a cloak-y
thing with a medallion piece.

MARISHA: Mantle sisters!

TALIESIN: You don't really have to wear it, it's
just something you get to own. But I also had a

piece of jewelry commissioned for everybody.

SAM: I've already got one.

MATT: Keyleth helped you with this one
specifically.

TALIESIN: This one specifically, because I had to
go find our friend in the Fire Plane.

MATT: Senokir, yeah.

MARISHA: That's right, that's right.

MATT: "Very happy to help you."

MARISHA: And we inform him that we buried his
wife's ashes.

MATT: "And I greatly appreciated you being so
honorable."

MARISHA: Yes, yes.

MATT: "Thank you."

MARISHA: Okay, Percy, do your thing.

MATT: "What do you need from me?"

TALIESIN: I have this design, and this requires
some gemstones, and I have a limited amount of

dragon scales from five dead dragons, and I was
curious if you could make a hero's crest that is

built around these five dragon scales, so that
everyone who helped to slay these dragons will

always have a token that proves that they were
there and they were one of them. And then I also

need one made without the dragon scales as well.

MATT: "Understood. Right away."

(laughter)

MATT: "You may leave now."

MARISHA: Do we come back in, like, two weeks?

TALIESIN: He'll call.

MARISHA: He'll call? Okay.

TALIESIN: Thank you.

MARISHA: Is this like a-- do we wait here?

TALIESIN: Goodbye!

MATT: "Goodbye."

LIAM: (AOL voice) Goodbye.

MATT: You receive word via imp, strangely enough.
Which sets you off for a moment, there. But you

are notified of their completion, and they're
delivered, finished, by this imp.

TALIESIN: They're beautiful, and at the ball, I
present all of these to you, and each is just a

bit individual. And they are crested in the gems
and in the dragon scales to give this color wheel

of the red, the white, the blue, the green.

LAURA: That's really beautiful.

TALIESIN: And there's one that doesn't have the
dragon scales, but it's just got this flourish

around it, and we give it to Taryon because these
are meant to be built upon, as we will build upon

ours. Your accomplishments will be built upon
yours as well.

SAM: Thank you, Percy. That's very kind.

TRAVIS: Is there a pin?

LIAM: Yeah, where are they best affixed to wear
our bling?

TALIESIN: Anywhere you like.

LIAM: Okay.

TRAVIS: I don't wear a shirt, so.

LAURA: Just right in your skin, Grog.

LIAM: Nipple piercing.

GROG: Right in the nips?

TALIESIN: All right. Or you could use it as your
piece clasp. You could put it on your-- you could

put it anywhere. You could put it on your
gauntlet.

MARISHA: I use it to affix my mantle.

MATT: There you go. Right in the center of the
mantle. Right there.

TALIESIN: They're just something so that, in the
worst-case scenario, anyone will always know who

we are, and we will know each other. It can't be
replicated. There's no one else who's made

anything like this. There's not enough material to
make anything like this.

LAURA: Ooh, I want to make mine my hairpiece.

TALIESIN: And we've got to figure out how to start
putting your accomplishments on yours soon.

SAM: Well, I hope to have an accomplishment to add
to it.

TALIESIN: You have several already. You defeated a
leviathan.

SAM: Sure. I killed a marid, right?

MARISHA: You helped me unify the world, globally.

SAM: I mean, go on.

LAURA: You're a world-class enchanter.

SAM: Mm-hm, yeah, yeah.

TALIESIN: Think of it much like your book.

SAM: Pike, what do you like about me?

ASHLEY: You are so great at baking.

SAM: My profiteroles are really good.

TRAVIS: Profiteroles?

ASHLEY: What did we name the profiteroles again?

SAM: I don't think we had a name for them.
Profite-roll for initiative?

LIAM: Profiterolos!

TALIESIN: Profiterolos!

LAURA: Oh, that's profiterolos!

LIAM: You're fun to fucking drink with.

SAM: Thank you.

TRAVIS: Your money.

SAM: Well, thank you.

ASHLEY: Your hair is lovely.

SAM: It is, isn't it?

LAURA: It's very shiny.

ASHLEY: You're kind. You're very giving.

SAM: All right, all right. Now I'm embarrassed.
But thank you. Thank you. Doty, you got all that?

MATT: "Tary."

(laughter)

TRAVIS: Jesus. No!

(laughter)

TALIESIN: So we just have a wonderful evening
where we eat too much, we drink too much, we dance

and we all look fabulous.

LAURA: Fabulous.

TRAVIS: I'm only wearing the pointy helmet,
Percy's ascot, and his glasses.

MATT: And that's it.

LAURA: No pants?

TRAVIS: I mean, I always have pants on.

LAURA: Okay.

MATT: Not always.

LIAM: Also, I am not always wearing the Raven
Queen's armor. I'm wearing some of Percival's

loaner cast-of-Hamilton clothing right now. I, on
the break, built a trapped box to slide under the

bed so that I can let my skin breathe at night.

LAURA: He doesn't smell as moldy after a year.

LIAM: I smell lovely.

MARISHA: You know, I've crafted him some oils with
some herbs. He's good. I helped him manscape a

bit, it's good.

LIAM: Barely any hair on this body.

(laughter)

MATT: Oh! All right, and as you guys-- the ball is
complete, you've all gathered. Your hangovers have

faded. You all begin your trek toward the Bay of
Gifts.

TALIESIN: Yes!

MARISHA: Wait, are we sailing or are we bamfing?

MATT: That's up to you guys.

TALIESIN: I'd like to sail. I need a vacation.

TRAVIS: (sings) Sailing.

TRAVIS, SAM AND MATT: (sing) Takes me away, to
where I've always---

LIAM: A little nostalgia in that for you, yeah?

ASHLEY: Yeah.

LAURA: That's right.

ASHLEY: Because I've sailed there before.

MARISHA: And we didn't go sailing with Pike.

TALIESIN: Teach us some sailing songs. It will be
fun.

ASHLEY: I'll teach you the ropes.

(laughter)

MATT: Bah-derr.

LIAM: And show us all the best gifs.

ASHLEY: Okay.

(laughter)

ASHLEY: I'll show you all the best jifs.

LIAM: That's okay too. That's okay too.

ASHLEY: Okay, just kidding. I don't say that.

MATT: I don't know what those are. All right, so
you make your way to Emon, then you charter a ship

across the Ozmit Sea and make your way to the
continent of Marquet. On the northeast base of the

Aggrad Mountains of Marquet, which consume a
sizable portion of the continent's north shore,

there before you stands, as it comes across the
horizon, a brilliant crescent-shaped bay of white

sands, glittering clear turquoise-colored waters,
and the grandiose port city of Shamal.

LAURA: (sings) Shamal.

(laughter)

LAURA: Sorry.

TRAVIS: Holy crap.

TALIESIN: God damn it.

ASHLEY: Oh, man.

MATT: Hundreds of ships fill the bay, from small
fishing vessels to massive cargo ships, bringing

an ever-flowing mixture of cultures, goods, and
characters from across Exandria to its sunny

location. Now, while back home Winter's Crest
brings seasonal rain and snow, here in the Bay of

Gifts the sky is clear, the water is warm, and the
sun is ever-shining throughout the day. The

streets of the city are draped in white and gold
silks, affixed and framing crossways and street

corners between torch posts and buildings. The
distant sound of waves and seagulls cawing seems

to envelop the city at all hours, occasionally
stemmed by the sounds of localized musicians. So

as you arrived here about midday or so, you take
in the nice salty air into your lungs. You have

your belongings, your sacks at your side, the city
is bustling. What do you want to do with your

vacation?

LAURA: Oh. What do we do with a vacation?

TRAVIS: Straight to the house of lady fav--

(laughter)

TALIESIN: I don't think I've ever done this
before. I'm not entirely sure.

LAURA: I think we're supposed to just hang out and
lay down in a hut and hang out on the beach.

SAM: We need a place to stay. Right?

LAURA: Well, yes.

SAM: Preferably a fancy location.

LIAM: As close to the beach as possible.

TALIESIN: Oh my God, you've done this before,
haven't you?

SAM: We used to summer in warmer climes. That's
right. And--

TALIESIN: We've never needed you more.

(laughter)

SAM: Well, we should get some cabanas.

(gasping)

LAURA: Yes!

TALIESIN: I don't know what that is!

SAM: And some people to wait on us. And we
should-- Preferably near water. Swimmable water.

And we just relax and tan, and sip mojitos.
(laughs)

(laughter)

MARISHA: Do you have, like, a racial advantage to
find a place like this?

SAM: (laughs) Vacations are my favored terrain.

(laughter)

MARISHA: Teach us your upper-white-male ways!

TALIESIN: The blood is blue.

(laughter)

SAM: I will certainly be of help. I'm afraid I
can't pay for us this vacation.

TALIESIN: No-no-no-no-no-no-no.

LAURA: This is Vox Machina's vacation.

SAM: All right.

TALIESIN: This is a group vacation. This is what
this is now.

SAM: Well, let's find a resort of some sort. Or a
relaxing spa! Or a---

TRAVIS: Some sandals.

SAM: (laughs) Yeah, sure.

MATT: (laughs) All right. So who's helming this
journey here? This search for--

LAURA: I'll helm.

MATT: All right, make an investigation check.

LAURA: Okay.

SAM: I will help her.

LAURA: Yeah.

MATT: All right. If you're helping her, that's
advantage for her on it, then.

LAURA: Oh, ah!

LIAM: Oh my gosh!

LAURA: Okay, well-- It doesn't matter, I rolled
it.

TALIESIN: The one that got away.

LAURA: (hums) 17.

MATT: 17. Okay. Roughly 20 or so gold later, you
find the party affixed with the finest of

Marquesian sandals. (laughs)

(laughter)

MATT: And come upon a place that was referred to
you as Dalen's closet. D-A-L-E-N's Closet. Which

doesn't sound majestic, but when you were
eventually led to where it resides-- the best way

I can describe it? It's a field of beautiful
hammocks affixed to various tropical trees and

structures that are built out of driftwood.

MARISHA: Oh my God.

MATT: Right next to a brilliant bright white
sandstone structure that appears to be the actual

resort, if you will. It's a wide tavern,
single-story. But well-staffed, and not terribly

busy. But it seems to be very nice, and akin to
some of the best places you've been to in your

previous excursions on vacation.

SAM: All right!

MATT: So as you arrive there, you are met with a
male, dark-skinned, somewhat balding Marquesian

halfling at the front desk who smiles as you
approach. He puts out his hands. "Welcome,

"friends! You are here for a-- I imagine to stay
within The Closet?"

LAURA AND ASHLEY: Yes.

MATT: "Ah, I am Guath, and this is for all of you?
I will have to charge

"for your friend, I am sorry."

SAM: Oh, well, he's not really a person, but--

MATT: "You're lucky I'm not charging twice! He's a
very big guy. That goes for that one as well."

SAM: He doesn't eat. So--

MATT: "Then he won't order food! But he's going to
sleep somewhere, yes?"

LAURA, TALIESIN and SAM: He doesn't sleep.

MATT: "Well then, is he okay with staying out on
the beach?"

SAM: Doty? Are you okay with staying on the
beach?

MATT: "Tary?"

SAM: He said very.

(laughter)

MATT: "Okay, very well. So that would be
ba-da-da-- seven and a half? Seven, we'll go with

"seven. How long do you plan to stay?"

LIAM: A couple of weeks?

LAURA: A couple of weeks, a week? Something like
that.

SAM: Ten days? Ten days?

LAURA: Ten days is really good.

MATT: "Ten days?"

SAM: We'll get bored after eight or nine.

MARISHA: Yeah, we might hop around.

LIAM: We should be so lucky.

LAURA: I know what he's about to do to me right
now. I know what Matt's going to do.

MATT: "Let me see here." And he brings up this
small abacus and starts doing math really quickly

on the side you see. "Nine days, you said?"

LAURA: Ten days.

MATT: "Ten days, all right. We'll put that at an
even-- with discount for friendships, 1500 gold

"for the entire stay."

LAURA: Oh! Well, seems-- and food is included, I'm
assuming.

MATT: (laughs) "Oh, no. I'm sorry."

LAURA: Where would we go eat?

MATT: "Well, we have a restaurant within as well,
and there are plenty of places to eat around the

"way. We are happy to bring it to your quarters,
but there is a surcharge for it, of course."

LIAM: Are you going to do the thing?

LAURA: Do what thing, darling?

LIAM: Your thing.

ASHLEY: Do you have any specials?

LIAM: The thing you do.

(laughter)

MARISHA: AAA discounts?

(laughter)

TALIESIN: Rotary club.

ASHLEY: AAA discounts, tenth night free
situation?

LAURA: Friends of J'mon Sa Ord.

MATT: "Uh. We do not run discounts here,
unfortunately. We are a very premier establishment

"here in the Bay of Gifts."

LAURA: Of course.

MATT: "So do you wish to stay or not?"

LAURA: Well, 1500 gold it is.

TRAVIS: We wish to stay.

MARISHA: That's fair.

TALIESIN: I think we wish to stay. I think--

MARISHA: We never spend money on ourselves.

SAM: Yeah, we never treat ourselves.

LIAM: Yeah. Ultimately our time is worth far more
than our money, so-- let's just go with that.

TALIESIN: That's very fair.

MATT: "All right! Fantastic!" So you pay off the
1500. Mark that off on the party gold. You are

given some keys--

ASHLEY: How about some free drinks?

MATT: (laughs) Make a persuasion check.

(laughter)

TALIESIN: Wow!

TRAVIS: Getting after it! Wasting no time.

MATT: This is training for your vacation next
week.

ASHLEY: I used to come here on a ship and we used
to bring you guys a lot

of supplies, so, you know.

(gasping)

TALIESIN: Natural number.

TRAVIS: Wow.

ASHLEY: 31.

ALL: Ooh!

MATT: What is your persuasion?

ASHLEY: It's 12.

SAM: It is?

LAURA: Oh shit.

SAM: Pike!

TRAVIS: Why have we not had fucking Pike do
things?

SAM: No shit!

LAURA: Oh my gosh!

ASHLEY: Maybe, how about-- If we don't get free
food, what about--

MATT: As you're telling him this he goes, "Well,
I--" That's right, because you trained in

persuasion as part of the skills feat. That's
right.

LIAM: All right, all right! (laughs)

MATT: So your charisma is-- Sorry, just making
sure on the math on this one. Don't want to get

lost. What's your charisma?

ASHLEY: Two. 14.

MATT: 14. Plus two. Plus-- So it would be plus
eight, unless you had something else to add under

persuasion. Regardless, you rolled really high.
We'll go over the math later.

ASHLEY: Okay.

MATT: "I don't recognize you, but we've had many
travelers and you seem--" He looks over the group

a bit, especially the large one. "Free drinks. Why
not? I'd be happy to give you this."

LAURA: All right, nice, Pike!

MATT: He reaches behind the counter and brings out
a couple of these small wooden coins.

ASHLEY: Tokens!

MATT: He passes them out "All right, that is five,
six-- He doesn't drink, you said. So that is just

"seven. There you go."

ASHLEY: Thanks!

SAM: We said he didn't eat. He drinks.

(laughter)

MATT: "So seven for all of you! Enjoy your stay!
If you have any questions, requirements, issues,

"or anything, anything at all, you let me know. We
can provide. Okay!" He gives you your keys, leads

you to you guys'-- The rooms are clustered in
fours, like a little square. They are all adjacent

next to each other in groups of four, so there is
two sections you guys are given, in square

formation with small pathways, but all the
walkways, all the alleys between these all just

lead right out onto the beach. There are no solid
walls on any of the hallways here, it's just the

rooms that are closed off. Everything just goes--
you just step off into the sand.

LAURA: This is amazing. I'm already, I'm in love
with this place.

LIAM: We don't need to go anywhere. This is it.

MATT: All right, so. Anything you guys wish to
accomplish specifically while you're here?

LAURA: No, just get drunk and hang out on the
beach.

LIAM: Yeah, I'm already peeling off my shirt.

LAURA: Yeah! Roll for fucking putting on
swimsuits!

MATT: (laughs) That's great!

SAM: I have a gift to give to Vax! I have a gift
to give.

LIAM: Oh yeah?

SAM: 'Cause we're in the Bay of Gifts.

LIAM: I've got my shirt up around my arms. What's
up, buddy?

(laughter)

SAM: You know, we haven't talked much over this
year since I've been helping your fucking sister.

LIAM: Well, my sister has locked you up, it's
true.

SAM: But, you know, I've talked to her a lot about
how you have this ongoing sort of

teasing war with Grog.

LIAM: Oh yeah?

SAM: And I have acquired something for you to use
in this battle.

LIAM: Do tell, motherfucker.

TALIESIN: (gasps) No!

SAM: Use it when the time is right.

TALIESIN: No! No, you are a sadistic bastard!

LIAM: Oh. My. Fucking. God!

(laughter)

LIAM: Oh my fucking God! I pull him into the
tightest hug, and I give him a kiss on his

forehead.

SAM: Oh, oh, oh! No! Okay.

LIAM: You beautiful fuck! Slap! Let's go get in
the fucking water!

And I run off towards the beach.

TALIESIN: That is the darkest thing I've ever
seen. That is amazing.

MATT: (laughter) I think I know what it is. All
right, so as you guys shed your armor, shed your

weapons, put on your beach-faring clothing, you
all one-after-one begin to charge your way down to

the white beach sands of the Bay of Gifts just
outside of the city itself.

TRAVIS: Are there any pool aerobics?

(laughter)

MATT: (laughs) No, but you're welcome to start
one.

TRAVIS: No, I'll join the rest.

LAURA: Grog! Grog! Lift me like Dirty Dancing!

(laughter)

SAM: (sings) Ahh!

MATT: Do you wait until she gets to the water
before you do that?

TRAVIS: Nope!

(laughter)

MATT: You arc a good 15 feet before you go
face-down in the sand.

LAURA: Oh shit! You're supposed to hold on, Grog.
Never mind.

TRAVIS: Oh, you said lift. I did it.

(laughter)

MARISHA: Yeah, Keyleth runs out and goes, who
wants to go scuba-diving?

ASHLEY: Ooh!

MARISHA: 'Cause I can Water Breathe us, and we can
go look at the coral reefs!

LAURA: Yay! Let's do it!

LIAM: Let's do it! Let's do it!

MARISHA: Okay!

MATT: All right.

MARISHA: We do that.

MATT: All right. So.

(laughter)

MARISHA: We do that at some point, throughout the
week.

MATT: Through the elements of-- which by the way,
we're all discovering here now, all the various

relaxation elements of magic in D&D.

(laughter)

MATT: Which they don't go into in the Player's
Handbook as often.

LIAM: Oh yeah.

MATT: (laughs) You guys manage to explore the
majority of-- over this journey, and multiple

trips-- explore a lot of the underwater portion of
the Bay of Gifts, which includes a number of

wrecked ships, that have just been storms, this is
a very, very prominent bay.

MARISHA: It's like the Bermuda Triangle!

MATT: You do run into other individuals that are
actually either scavengers or pearl-divers or

people that deal with gathering kelp and various
other forms of plant life off the ground for

food or other purposes. It's a very thriving
ecosystem here. The people that live within this

bay utilize everything in the vicinity. You
see that work here, it's quite fascinating, and

you see all walks of life. You all are pale as
fuck by comparison to the locals here, who live in

the sun most of their life.

TRAVIS: Well, me especially.

MATT: But everyone there is friendly. You're
little white-ass beacons underwater.

LAURA: Do we see any mermaids?

MATT: There are no mermaids in this bay that you
find. Sorry.

LAURA: It's okay.

TALIESIN: Next vacation.

MARISHA: I turn to Pike and Vex and go, hey! Hey!
Underwater tea party!

TRAVIS: Nope. Not doing that shit. Not doing
that.

(laughter)

ASHLEY: Are you going to join?

SAM: I'm still trying to pressurize.

(laughter)

LAURA: I want to find pearls!

TALIESIN: I'll go diving for pearls! Oh, yes!

MATT: All right. Each of you who wants to go
pearl-diving, make an investigation check.

ASHLEY: I want to.

LIAM: I want to go!

MARISHA: Can I look for shark's teeth? That's fun!
Can I do a nature check?

TRAVIS: I'm building a sand castle while they're
doing that.

LAURA: Investigation?

SAM: I'll help you with that sand castle.

TRAVIS: Okay.

LIAM: 26!

LAURA: Oh, that's good!

TALIESIN: 21!

ASHLEY: I got a five. I definitely didn't find a
pearl.

MARISHA: 17.

TALIESIN: 21.

LAURA: 22.

MATT: You have no luck under the water, but you do
find a couple of shark teeth-- at least they look

like shark teeth-- along the sands of the beach
that have washed up on the shore.

MARISHA: Cool.

LIAM: 26. 26.

MATT: You don't, what did you roll again?

TALIESIN: 21.

MATT: 21, okay. You do manage to find one pearl,
it's small but it's pretty. You manage to find a

pretty decent pearl. You're not entirely certain--
make an intelligence check.

LIAM: All right, I'm okay at that. Not today,
though.

LAURA: Are you feeling Lucky?

LIAM: I'm not burning Luck on this.

MATT: You've burned it on lesser.

LAURA: I know, right?

LIAM: I'm not burning it on this. 13.

MATT: 13, okay. You gather the pearl you gathered
is worth 150 gold.

LIAM: Do you want this? I don't. You can have it.

MATT: There you go.

LAURA: I rolled 22, as well.

MATT: You and Percival both find similar
pearls. Imperfect, maybe worth ten to 15 gold.

LAURA: I don't want to sell it. I just want to
have it. It's pink.

TALIESIN: I think I know how to pierce them.
Lovely.

MATT: And you rolled a five?

ASHLEY: I rolled a five. I found a boob.

MATT: You found a sea cucumber.

ASHLEY: Oh.

TALIESIN: It's the sea hairs that squirt the ink?

MATT: Not that type. It doesn't seem to have any
sort of defense mechanism. It sits there sadly in

her grasp.

LIAM: By the way, I should probably toss out,
because we probably haven't all been half-naked

together-- you know this, some of you have, but
not all of us together-- I still have this big

mark in the middle of my chest. This black, veiny
thing.

MATT: It's not like a pulsing tumor, or anything.
It's a dark spot that looks like a bruise that

never quite went away.

LIAM: FYI.

MARISHA: Tattoo's looking good, though.

TRAVIS: Tary, do you know what I hear they do on
beaches?

You bury someone up to their head in sand.

SAM: Do you want me to bury you?

TRAVIS: No, I thought we could bury you. Hold on.
And I start doggy digging between my feet. I go

into a Rage.

TALIESIN: You could walk away right now. He'll
never know.

TRAVIS: Big hole right there.

MATT: What you don't notice is another traveling
couple that's lying on the beach about 15 to 20

feet away are now completely buried in sand with
their drinks.

TRAVIS: I end my Rage. Get in.

SAM: All right, sure. We're friends.

TRAVIS: Yeah, totally friends.

SAM: All right. I'll step into the gigantic hole.

MATT: You step in. Doty watches you get inside,
not really having an opinion on this.

SAM: Sure.

TRAVIS: Why didn't you pay for our rooms with all
your money?

SAM: I've spent a lot of money.

TRAVIS: How much?

SAM: A lot.

TRAVIS: How much do you have left?

SAM: Not a lot.

TRAVIS: I start filling up the hole.

(laughter)

TRAVIS: I stop. Just so his arms are out, like
that.

SAM: Oh, this is fun. I should have taken my armor
off first. It's chafing me.

MATT: All of you guys are beach-dressed except for
Tary!

SAM: I thought this was a formal trip.

MATT: Sand's gotten all in the metal joints and
the inside of the armor.

MARISHA: You know salt water is bad for the armor,
right?

ASHLEY: You should go change.

MARISHA: You should.

SAM: Doty, lift me up, please.

MATT: "Taryon." Puts you down.

LIAM: He just evolved.

LAURA: Yeah, I know. I feel like he said Taryon.

MATT: Tary. It should have been Tary. Good catch.

SAM: Undress me.

MATT: He pulls off the breastplate, starts taking
off the armor pieces. You are now currently down

to your skivvies.

SAM: Great.

TRAVIS: Do you want to build a castle?

SAM: Let's build the best castle ever.

TRAVIS: Fucking A, man. Do you know how to do
that?

SAM: Do I know how to do that?

MATT: Are you trained in sand castle building?

SAM: I am a tinkerer.

MATT: Yeah, and some of those tools may come in
handy. You know what I'm going to do on this?

SAM: Sand castle rolls.

MATT: Yeah, we're making rolls for sand castles.

TRAVIS: No shit?

(laughter)

MATT: For this, we'll have a skill test for you,
because you are a brute strength individual. This

is going to be a dexterity check.

TRAVIS: Okay.

MATT: And you're following his plan.

SAM: I'm going to go to my history knowledge and
try to base it on one of the famous castles from

my youth, of my land.

MATT: All right, from the Dwendalian Empire.

SAM: From the Truscan Empire.

MATT: Truscan area. I misspoke in an earlier
episode. The Dwendalian Empire of King Bertrand

Dwendal.

LIAM: Everybody looks over and Castle Ravenloft is
towering above the beach.

MATT: Exactly, yeah. So, make your dexterity
check.

TRAVIS: Four!

MATT: Taryon, go ahead and make your history
check.

SAM: 16.

MATT: Great. You get the structure built. You map
out the right scale structure of this castle, and

you get about three-quarters of the way through
before Grog (shifting sand).

TRAVIS: What did you do?

SAM: (sighs) You know, maybe we should have-- you
know, let's just try one more time.

TRAVIS: Okay. What did we do wrong the first
time?

SAM: Just be very careful, Grog. Because you were
backing up and I think you knocked into it a

little bit.

TRAVIS: You putting this on me?

SAM: It was probably Doty.

TRAVIS: Probably. Doty, go walk over there.

MATT: "Tary." (impact sounds)

TRAVIS: Oh, he listens to me now?

MATT: He walks over about ten feet.

SAM: All right, let's do one more try.

TRAVIS: Yeah.

SAM: And really put some artistry into this. We
want a moat, we want defensive towers. I'm going

to put a little alchemic fire in the middle of it,
so if anyone gets through the gates, they

explode.

TRAVIS: Wow. Dungeons?

SAM: Of course.

TRAVIS: With alligators in the moat?

SAM: Yes.

TRAVIS: Okay.

SAM: Let's do it.

MATT: All right, now make an intelligence check to
lay out the design.

SAM: Just straight intelligence?

MATT: Just straight intelligence.

SAM: 13.

MATT: That's still good. It's not a very hard DC.
You're structuring a sandcastle.

(laughter)

TRAVIS: Come on, Gil. Five.

LAURA: Oh no!

MARISHA: You're with the worst sandcastle
partner.

MATT: This one's bigger. This one's coming along
great. You're glad the first one fell over because

now this is going to be much better.

SAM: Yes, yeah, this is coming along great.

MATT: (sliding sand)

SAM: God fucking-- Grog! You stepped-- I mean, the
central structure held the whole thing! I'm

getting a sunburn because we've been here for
so--

TRAVIS: I think that was my fault.

(laughter)

SAM: (sighs) You know what? Just bury me again.
Just do that. Bury me again.

LIAM: While that is happening, may I hide Taryon's
clothing?

SAM: Aren't you skin-diving?

LIAM: Time is loosey-goosey. Aren't we playing
Dungeons and Dragons here? It's up to him.

MATT: Make a perception check.

LIAM: 23.

MATT: You see the opportunity.

LIAM: I'm getting him.

MATT: Make a sleight-of-hand check.

LIAM: Sleight-of-hand check? Natural 20!

MATT: A gentle pass by, choosing the right moment
in which Grog is involved in rage-burying and Taryon

has completely given up on his activities, you
manage to scoot through the sand, and moving your

hand behind you to hide the trail, you drag his
armor off back towards the resort.

LIAM: Yoink.

MATT: All righty. As you've been buried now,
sufficiently--

TRAVIS: All the way up to the head this time.

MATT: Up to the neck. You feel the sunburn is
starting to kick in a bit.

SAM: (sighs) I need that helmet, Doty! My helm,
please.

TRAVIS: The giant reflective piece of metal?

SAM: Yeah.

TRAVIS: You're going to cook in that thing.

MATT: "Tary."

SAM: What do you mean, "Tary?"

(laughter)

SAM: Where did it go?

MATT: "Tary."

SAM: Don't tell me "Tary!" Your number one job is
to take care of me, and your number two job is to

take care of my belongings! That stuff is worth
more than you!

MATT: "Tary."

SAM: All right, just get me out of the hole.

MATT: (impact noise)

LAURA: By your head.

SAM: Ow!

TRAVIS: I hand him a seashell. I'm sorry.

SAM: Let's go find my armor. I'm going to go look
around for it.

MATT: Make a survival check, because you're now
tracking.

SAM: Survival? Ten.

MATT: Ten.

SAM: Oh, no. That's a four, so that's three. I'm a
negative one for survival. I thought it was 11.

MATT: You spend the next hour asking from person
to person on these white sands.

SAM: Excuse me, pardon me. Sorry to interrupt your
vacation. Have you seen a lot of armor and a big

golden helmet? No? Okay.

TALIESIN: Does everybody speak Common?

MATT: A lot of people do. This bay, in particular,
because this bay is a bastion of trade.

SAM: They're all German tourists.

MATT: Exactly, yeah. It's a Swiss drop area. It's
great. But while everyone here, for the most part,

speaks Marquesian, a majority speaks some level of
Common.

TALIESIN: I was just curious if he was walking up
to people and they were staring, going "oh no",

and walking on.

MATT: There were probably a couple, but they
probably understood him, they just didn't respond.

Eventually, you find your way to the resort.
You're tired and you're sunburned and you're

exhausted. You walk out and see him in this
state.

LIAM: And by the way, I went to the front desk and
I asked which room Mr. de Rolo was staying in,

because I wanted to put some of his belongings
there, and I hid the armor

in Percy and Vex's room.

TALIESIN: You'd better have been able to actually
convince them.

MATT: Which is what I'm about to get to. Make a
deception check.

LIAM: Sure. Here's where the Luck is. Yeah.
Persuasion, you say?

MATT: Deception.

LIAM: Deception. That's a 20.

MATT: 20. Okay, it takes a little bit of
convincing, but eventually he sends one of the

employees to go along with you. They let you into
the room.

LIAM: And now I'm coming back to the beach.

MATT: Okay, so as you guys come in at the close of
the day-- you've been here for a few days as part

of your excursion here-- you all come in as you've
had enough time in the sun and you probably need

to get out for a little bit.

LIAM: Tary, come here.

SAM: Yes?

LIAM: While you were messing about with Grog,
Percy grabbed your shit and hid it.

SAM: Percival?

LIAM: Yeah.

SAM: My dear friend?

LIAM: He was chortling the whole time.

SAM: I don't believe that he would do such a
thing.

LIAM: All right. I walk away.

MATT: All right.

TALIESIN: Oh god.

SAM: Let's go to Percy's room. I'm going to go
knock on his door.

MATT: Are you in your room, currently?

TALIESIN: Oh god, no.

MATT: No answer.

SAM: I try the door.

MATT: It's locked.

SAM: Chime of Opening.

(laughter)

SAM: Oh, I can open any fucking door.

TALIESIN: Yes!

TRAVIS: Where have you been all our campaign?

MARISHA: It took us a year.

LIAM: You're like a Swiss army knife of fixing all
our problems and trolling.

LAURA: We have the same room.

TALIESIN: Okay.

MATT: Opens up. Quick glance inside, and there's
sand scattered all across the ground, and in the

far end, right next to the bed, haphazardly jammed
underneath, you see your armor and belongings.

(laughter)

SAM: We were science bros! How could he? Doty,
this calls for revenge.

What of his belongings are there?

MATT: Of yours?

SAM: Of his.

MATT: Of Percival's. That would be-- because you
didn't bring everything.

TALIESIN: My stuff and Vex's stuff.

MATT: Yeah, so pretty much all of Percival and
Vex's belongings are within the room.

TALIESIN: Here, take a look. Guns, swords, boots.

SAM: What can we do, Doty? What can we do?

MATT: "Tary."

SAM: Good idea, but a little bit too cruel.

(laughter)

LIAM: "Kill them all, you say?"

TRAVIS: "But they need their skin to live!"

SAM: All right. I'll go to my cloak and tear off
the Patch of Two Mastiffs.

TALIESIN: Oh no.

SAM: They're two big dogs, right?

MATT: Yeah.

SAM: Yeah, all right. And I'll throw some kibble
all over the place and be like, go on, just chew

everything up and make a mess and pee wherever you
want.

MATT: All right, as you pull the patch and throw
it in the room, it glows a bright orange and then

flashes and burns into two small coal-like embers
that when they slam into the ground, crack and

open, and from those two embers you see two
full-grown mastiffs. (barking and snorting)

SAM: There's food in there. Eat it all. Scratch
through everything you want.

MATT: They both start eating. They go nuts on the
place.

SAM: And use this as your latrine as well.

MATT: One of them goes, (sniffs) and just pisses
on one of the sacks. You're not quite sure which

one it is.

SAM: Good doggy. All right. You're free now. Go
away. I don't know.

MATT: Do you leave them in the room?

SAM: Yeah, just stay here, go, whatever you want.
I don't know. I feel weird. I don't need a pet

right now.

MATT: You leave and close the door behind you?
Okay. All right, so you guys meet up again. You

get more drinks, you begin to wander the city. Is
there anything else you want to do while you're

out and about for the afternoon?

ASHLEY: I want to get my hair braided with beads
on the end!

(cheering)

TRAVIS: Yeah!

MATT: All righty.

ASHLEY: And Grog.

LAURA: Just the beard?

TRAVIS: Yep.

MATT: All right. You guys ask around about a half
an hour or so, and you're led to one location that

is windowless and has an open archway door with
some fine purple and red silks blocking the entry.

As you walk inside, there's one woman who's
sitting there, in the process of eating a small

bowl of fruit. You see she is a dark-skinned
Marquesian, but elf lineage. She has elven

features. Her hair, which is this dirty brown, is
braided in rows that go down past her waist and

have a series of multi-colored, looks almost like
gems and rings and other cool pieces of jewelry

that are woven into it. As she's looking at this
small book in her lap and eating the fruit, she

turns around. "Oh, I'm sorry. Hello."

ASHLEY: Hi. Could we get our hair-- yours looks
amazing. Could we get some hair braids? Tight and

then going down, with some gems and sparkles in
it? And same here, on his beard?

MATT: "Oh, the beard. I can do that."

ASHLEY: Yeah?

MATT: "Yes, of course." Closes her book and sets
it down. "Come, sit."

LAURA: Some razor blades up in them.

MATT: She calls out in Marquesian for a moment,
and a younger woman, probably about 15 or so,

comes out. Human, dark-skinned, as well. Both
begin to start working on your hair and your

beard. Asking about where you're from. It becomes
a conversational piece because you're there for a

good hour and a half or so to go through all of
your hair and get it done, but nevertheless, you

now have a fantastic series of braids in your
hair.

TRAVIS: She pulled really hard.

ASHLEY: It looks really good. Do you want to add
any jewels in it?

TRAVIS: Jewels?

ASHLEY: Earrings and stuff like how she has?

TRAVIS: I just want the beads. Little beads and
little braids. No jewels. What about you?

ASHLEY: I want all of it.

TRAVIS: Everything?

ASHLEY: Just all of it.

MATT: "All of it?"

ASHLEY: What does all of it cost?

MATT: "If you want more than what I have in
mine--"

ASHLEY: Well, no. Let's not get carried away.

TRAVIS: Do you want extensions?

ASHLEY: My hair is already so long.

TRAVIS: It is. Do you want other colored hair in
there, too?

ASHLEY: Let's put blue in there.

MATT: "Oh, you wish to color?"

ASHLEY: Oh, well--

MATT: "No, it's okay."

TRAVIS: Yeah, why not? Fuck it!

MATT: She talks to her assistant, and the young
girl runs off for a second with a smile. Comes

back, and there is what looks to be some sort of a
fruit. Looks like a blue pomegranate that's

partially crushed. She takes it and with a mortar
and pestle setup begins mashing it and goes,

"We can do blue."

ASHLEY: Yeah!

TRAVIS: Yeah.

LAURA: So cool!

MATT: The whole endeavor between the two of you
guys is not inexpensive-- few things are in the

Bay of Gifts. It's designed specifically to
survive and thrive on the trade here. Both of you

guys, it costs about 120 gold.

MARISHA: Oh shit.

TRAVIS: Not a problem.

ASHLEY: So how does that break down? For my hair
versus his?

MATT: "Oh, for the two? For any sort of masculine
hair endeavors, which is not our specialty-- Well,

"the beads themselves are made from finely blown
glass and they're individually colored, and those

"are made specifically by an artisan who is about
three blocks up that way, so those are brought

"here, and those are purchased on our end, as well.
You are paying straight cost of the beads. Time

"and training, of course, on our end, and we do the
finest work you'll find all across Marquet."

ASHLEY: Well, you know what? I am a very big
supporter of small businesses, so support small

business, and I will give you 120 gold.

MATT: "The 20 is mainly for him. The 100 was to
give you the dye coloring--"

LAURA: Oh, it's for both of you guys? Oh, I
thought it was 120 each!

LIAM: That's all right.

LAURA: That's not bad. I mean, that's a lot.

MATT: It's still a lot. But since you've gotten
here, you get the sense that it's-- by nature,

everything here costs a little more. A lot of it's
imported and a lot of it is designed for people

that are willing to pay for foreign goods.

ASHLEY: Great.

TRAVIS: Are we supposed to tip?

LAURA: No, she owns the business so you don't have
to do as much.

TRAVIS: Are you there?

ASHLEY: Just 120.

MATT: Very well. So how much blue did you want to
get in your hair?

ASHLEY: Say again?

MATT: How much blue did you want to get in your
hair?

ASHLEY: Just some strips, you know. Just some
strips on the white so it pops out.

MATT: Okay.

ASHLEY: Just like--

MATT: All right.

ASHLEY: You know, dealer's choice. Just get
creative and do what you want.

MATT: All right. Okay. So upon completion-- It's
very cool. It's pretty close to what you were

hoping and expecting. You end up with three
streaks: one central one that goes from the

center, and then two that go from the sides and
back that way.

LAURA: That's way different than I expected.

ASHLEY: It's awesome.

MATT: And then all the tips go to blue, so it's
almost like you have these two blocks of white and

then eventually it all goes blue towards the
edge.

ASHLEY and TRAVIS: Yeah.

LAURA: Imagine what that'll look like when your
hair is down, too, because it'll be like blue all

over the top and all mixed in everywhere.

ASHLEY: Ooh, that's pretty cool.

TRAVIS: Hell yeah.

MATT: So yeah. Anything else you want to
accomplish, or call it an evening?

LAURA: I think just eat a nice dinner and then
head back to the rooms and get ready to wake up in

the morning and do all the same shit again.

MARISHA: Definitely some magically frozen
daiquiris.

MATT: You guys all find your way back with some
drinks. The sun has set now, the cold night has

come in through the bay, but it's still warm. It's
cold by the bay standards, but you guys come from

the northern ends, in Tal'Dorei proper it's still
a pretty warm night. You hear the waves crashing

as you enter the establishment. You all head back
to your rooms to get in more evening attire.

Percival and Vex-- how long do the hounds last
for?

SAM: Let me look.

TALIESIN: That's a good question.

SAM: It just says Two Mastiffs. I think they just
are.

(laughter)

SAM: It's not like a spell or anything, they are
two dogs that live now.

MATT: I am so excited. I am so excited.

TRAVIS: They don't live for much longer.

MATT: Okay. So, as soon as you approach, you guys
hear, through the door on the other side, this low

growl. This (growls).

TALIESIN: Vex?

LAURA: What is that?

TALIESIN: I don't--

LAURA: I open the door. Just fucking on guard.

MATT: Okay. You come inside to notice the entire
interior of the room has been sundered. Pillows

and cloth torn and pulled everywhere. The room
smells immediately of heaping piles of dog shit

and urine. The bed is scattered and torn open. The
curtains have been pulled down, and there, in the

center of the room, are two massive mastiffs,
mating.

(laughter)

LAURA: What the fuck!

TALIESIN: I grab the door and shut it.

LAURA: Who did this?

TALIESIN: It was either Grog or your brother.
Those are really the only two people who could be

possibly responsible--

LAURA: Grog! And I take off running to his room.

MATT: Okay. (laughs)

TALIESIN: I'm not missing this. I am following.

MATT: Okay. Your door is open, Grog. You're just
there sitting down for a second just grabbing your

jug. Getting a quick nip before your next nip.

TRAVIS: Yeah, mini-fridge.

MATT: And Vex just storms in, heaving mad.

TRAVIS: Hey. Oh. Hi.

LAURA: Did you have anything to do with this?

(laughter)

TRAVIS: I feel like I should ask what, but the
answer's probably yes?

LAURA: The fucking dogs. Grog! I grab him by his
beaded beard and drag him back to the room.

TRAVIS: Ah! It's really tight! (yelps)

MATT: Percival, as you catch up-- She comes around
the corner just dragging Grog

by the beard behind her.

TALIESIN: Oh god, she's going to kill you.

TRAVIS: (groans) What in the-- what-- (groans)

LAURA: I open the door and throw him in. Did you
do this?

TRAVIS: (sniffs) Ugh. What the fuck?

MATT: The dogs have stopped mating at this point
and one of them comes over and goes (sniffs,

chomp) and just bites into your neck. It does
nothing, it just rests there.

TRAVIS: Is this your fucking dog?

LAURA: Is this your fucking dog?

TRAVIS: No! Where am I going to get dogs from?

LAURA: (huffs) True.

(laughter)

TRAVIS: Although I don't think this shit and piss
is mine.

LAURA: (laughs) That's good.

TRAVIS: Yep.

LAURA: What does our room look like? What does our
stuff look like? Is it ruined?

MATT: Your stuff isn't--

LIAM: Not the magical items.

TALIESIN: The stuff in the closet is probably--

MATT: Yeah. You didn't just leave your stuff on
the floor, there. You had things put away inside

the cabinets and stuff. And the things that were
in the cabinets were fine. So most of your general

clothing is all right. It's more like your sacks,
anything that was just loose. Your boots. All just

smell of dog piss.

LAURA: How did they even get in? I take off to the
front desk.

(laughter)

SAM: Oh, shit.

TRAVIS: Can I let the mastiffs have a couple of
licks from the alchemy jug full of beer that I was

drinking out of?

MATT: They do have a lick. Big old mastiff
tongues.

TALIESIN: I'm going to go find Vax.

MATT: Okay. As you rush off to the front counter,
you can see Guath, the Marquesian, is still there.

He's in the process of going through the books,
making sure he's keeping everything tidy and he

sees you approach. "Ah, hello! Is there anything
of--"

LAURA: Who-- Hi.

MATT: "Hello."

LAURA: Who was in our room? Did you send anyone to
our room?

MATT: "Uh. Yes. Yes, there was--"

LAURA: Who was it?

MATT: "The other who looks like you. He came by
and said that he was supposed to put the--

"We had to send--"

(laughter)

SAM: Yes!

MATT: "He said he had to put things in the room
for you. I am so sorry. I am so sorry. If this is

"a problem, we can call the-- You wish us to call
the guards over here?"

LAURA: (scoffs) How? Why? Vax! And I take off
running. Vax! Where are you? Where are you?

LIAM: I'm in my room.

LAURA: Ooh!

TALIESIN: I have just turned the corner towards
Vax's room. I'm probably just now in eyesight.

LAURA: I sprint and I--

MARISHA: I just showered, you guys, now's not a
good time. I'm just--

LAURA: Trinket, off with me, we're ready to
fucking fight. He's out of my necklace and we're

taking off towards Vax's room.

LIAM: Did you say you're coming to the room?

LAURA: You are dead.

TALIESIN: Can I hear this?

LIAM: I mean, practically.

MATT: Yeah.

SAM: I can too.

TRAVIS: We're all making our way over to Vax's
room.

LIAM: Kiki, might want to go to into the bathroom.
I think that my sister is coming. Whoa!

LAURA: Keyleth.

MARISHA: Hi, Vex.

LAURA: Put some clothes on.

LIAM: I guess I will as well.

MARISHA: I feel like we're in trouble.

LAURA: Not you.

LIAM: Yoink. What?

LAURA: What the fuck did you do? Why the fuck
would you do that in our room?

LIAM: What did I do in your room?

LAURA: Destroyed it.

LIAM: Why would I destroy your room on the first
day of our vacation?

LAURA: Did you-- Did he-- Did you-- Why would
you?

LIAM: I wouldn't. What are you talking about?

LAURA: The dogs. Shit and piss everywhere. I know
you were in our room.

LIAM: Dogs?

MARISHA: There are dogs? (gasps) What kind of dogs
are they?

TALIESIN: Why don't you come with me and I'm going
to go show you while they talk.

MARISHA: Okay.

LIAM: Are you pranking me? What are you talking
about?

LAURA: Ooh. I just yank your hair as hard as I
can.

LIAM: (yells) What are you doing?

LAURA: Why would you do it? Why?

LIAM: Do what? You have to be more specific.

LAURA: Dogs. Shitting and ruining everything in
our room.

LIAM: What the fuck are you talking about? Dogs? I
don't have any dogs.

LAURA: Don't you lie to me.

LIAM: I don't have any magic. I can heal a little
bit and that's it. What are you talking about?

LAURA: They're not even magic dogs, they're just
dogs! Can I roll to see if he's fucking telling

the truth?

MATT: Make an insight check.

LIAM: I'll make my deception check.

TALIESIN: Kiki, we've always been friends.

MARISHA: Yeah, of course.

LAURA: 18.

TALIESIN: I want you to know this is nothing
personal but this is--

TRAVIS: Is that your second Luck?

LIAM: Yes, it was.

MATT: That's the second Luck, yeah.

TALIESIN: And I open the door and show you. And
then I shove you in and shut the door for a

moment.

MATT: You can see he's covering up. You don't
quite know the full specifics, but you know he's

covering.

LAURA: I know you were in our room and I know
you're lying to me.

LIAM: I was not in your room. I am not lying to
you, I don't-- (yells)

LAURA: I just yank him out of the room. Trinket!

LIAM: What are you-- what?

LAURA: Sic him!

(laughter)

MATT: At this point, she's pulled you out into the
hallway. You now see, the bear you've grown up

with and loved, for the first time, you realize
how massive and scary this bear could be as it

(growls, heavy steps).

LIAM: I click my Boots of Haste!

TRAVIS: You were fucking naked a second ago.

MATT: Trinket charges you.

LIAM: This is improvisation. If I say it, it's
real. That's how this fucking works.

SAM: You were putting on your boots?

MATT: So what are you doing? Trinket's coming at
you.

LIAM: I'm running in my boots!

MATT: All right.

LAURA: I have the back of his head. I have his
hair.

LIAM: Disengage.

MATT: Okay. So hold on. She does have your hair.

LIAM: Yeah.

MATT: Technically, it's a grapple.

LIAM: Okay. You want to make it a strength check?
I know my strength is double hers.

LAURA: (gasps) Your strength is double mine?

MATT: It's athletics and acrobatics versus her--

LIAM: Okay. Oh, acrobatics, okay.

LAURA: Versus my strength?

MATT: I'll double-check real fast. I should
remember this, but for this one particularly I

want to make sure that I get specifics right
here.

TALIESIN: This is so great.

SAM: Forget rolling for sand castles, this is it.

(laughter)

MATT: Yeah, man. This is the craziest shit.
(laughs) I didn't expect it to go this way.

TALIESIN: I vaguely wonder what you actually 
had planned for this.

MATT: Not all this!

TALIESIN: This is bedlam, at this point.

MATT: This went in a whole different direction.

SAM: A big title card comes over the frame: Night
One.

(laughter)

MATT: Okay, yeah. It's athletics or acrobatics
versus her athletics.

LAURA: Oh.

LIAM: Well, I will choose acrobatics.

LAURA: Motherfuck.

MATT: Go ahead and roll your acrobatics. Roll your
athletics.

LAURA: Ugh, it was almost good.

LIAM: 29.

LAURA: Six!

MATT: You slip out from her grasp right as Trinket
comes upon you. What's your speed?

LIAM: Fucking wicked, man. I'm double-speed, so
60.

MATT: You don't have your boots on, you just put
your pants on!

ASHLEY: Weren't you in the shower?

MATT: You mimicked putting your pants on.

LIAM: All right. 30.

MATT: Okay. Trinket's movement is?

LAURA: Oh, he's got 40.

MATT: Trinket is gaining on you.

(laughter)

MATT: You watch as an older couple emerge from the
room down the hallway and go, "Nope." And close

the door.

LIAM: I see food trays left by other customers. I
start knocking them down and dumping food on the

rug behind me as I run. It's improv. It's real!

MATT: There are small baskets.

LIAM: I said I saw food!

MATT: Yeah, so you knock some baskets behind you
and you keep running. You just emerge from the

edge of the hallway. You can see the beach ahead
of you. You can see the little bit of moonlight

hitting the sand in front.

LIAM: What's around me?

MATT: Hallways and doors.

MARISHA: Is our room nearby? Did he see me get
shoved in?

TALIESIN: He wouldn't have seen you get shoved in,
but he would have seen me in the hallway at this

point, if he passed her.

MATT: I'd say you moved one direction. Trinket
went and chased him down the other side, so this

is going away from you guys.

MARISHA: Hey, Vax? I think they're really mad at
us.

LIAM: Little busy, little busy, little busy!

MATT: Just as you emerge to part of the sand and
you think you're home free, you stop hearing

Trinket's footfalls. (whack) Leapt and just
impacts you on the sand and both of you tumble,

end-over-end, through the sand. Eventually, you
land flat on your back and Trinket pounces on top

of you, your breath (groans) as your chest gets
closed in. And right up in your face, pinning you

down, going (growls).

LIAM: I immediately start doing this.

SAM: What is that?

LIAM: This is me rubbing his tummy.

LAURA: Oh. Don't fall for it, Trinket!

MATT: (growls)

(laughter)

MATT: You are pinned by a very heavy bear, to the
point where your breathing is (shallow panting).

LIAM: You hear from under the bear, (muffled) I
have been here before, and I will be here again!

LAURA: Why would you do it? It's such a beautiful
vacation and you ruined it.

You ruined all of our things.

LIAM: Did I ruin it? What did I ruin? I still
don't know what happened.

LAURA: Vax, you let two dogs loose in our room and
they shit and pissed all over everything, and our

bed is ruined. They were fucking in our bed!

LIAM: I did not fucking let two dogs--

LAURA: Then what did you do? I know you were in
our room. I know you're lying to me.

LIAM: I was there for five seconds. I put Taryon's
armor under the bed and then I left. I was in

there for 30 seconds. I don't have any dogs. I
don't know dogs.

LAURA: Why would you put Taryon's armor in our
room?

LIAM: Because it was fucking hilarious!

LAURA: Wait a minute.

MARISHA: That's the trolliest thing you've said,
ever!

LAURA: Did you tell Tary?

LIAM: I did.

LAURA: So Tary did this?

LIAM: What happened?

LAURA: Someone let two giant dogs loose in our
room, and they destroyed our things. Just

destroyed it. And now, on top of having everything
ruined, we're probably going to have to pay for

damages. Which will be coming out of your funds,
by the way.

LIAM: That's the funniest bit, because I have no
money.

LAURA: Well, then Keyleth. Trinket, stay on him
for a while. Just for a while. Feel free to

relieve yourself.

(laughter)

MATT: Trinket's head slowly turns over back
towards you with a, "What?"

LAURA: Just a little time. And I walk.

MATT: As you walk away, Trinket's head moves back
to you, and if you could see a bear smile?

LIAM: Yeah. When she's gone and it's just us, I
say, she thinks I care. I don't care. Does she let

you kiss her? No, she doesn't. But you get to kiss
me all you want, so have at it, buddy.

MATT: Trinket goes, (grunts).

LIAM: It's all right.

MATT: And you feel your lower regions get warmer.

(groaning and laughter)

LAURA: You got pissed on.

LIAM: I've been inside a dragon's fucking stomach,
buddy. I don't care. The beach is 50 feet that

way. Get it all out.

MATT: All right, while you're pinned there, you
march off. You guys just now catch up to the

chaos.

MARISHA: I have to say, wherever these dogs came
from, they're very beautiful dogs. Look purebred.

Very great muscular structure. Come here, boys.
Come here!

MATT: Keyleth's currently getting the mastiffs out
of the room.

MARISHA: Can I Speak With Animals to them?

MATT: Yeah.

MARISHA: Come here, boys. Come here. I take out
some beef jerky. Come here. That's good boys.

Good boys.

LAURA: Where did you have beef jerky?

MARISHA: Fish jerky from where we were at the
casino earlier.

SAM: Oh snap!

MARISHA: As Liam O'Brien said, it's improv, so
that makes it true!

LAURA: I'm just wondering--

LIAM: You fucking made out that you were hiding in
crystal clear bathwater, motherfucker! If you say

it, it's real!

MARISHA: Right, so just like the internet, if you
say it, it's real. Come here, boys.

MATT: Animal handling.

MARISHA: Oh, it smells. You boys did a number in
this room. Okay.

(laughter)

MARISHA: I've got to have some advantage for being
a fucking druid, right?

MATT: No.

MARISHA: That's a one.

MATT: So you say, "Come here, boys." They both
look at you. They rush up, grab the jerky out of

your hands, and dart out of the room. You hear
them, (barks) vanishing.

MARISHA: Fuck these dogs! That's why you said we
should never own dogs.

MATT: Taryon?

SAM: I'm getting night cream put on me by Doty.

(laughter)

SAM: Doty, could you sing to me?

MATT: (sings) "Tary. Tary. Tary." It's all the
same. It's all horribly mechanical-sounding and

echo-y. It's not singing more than it's repeating
your name over and over again in the same

intonation. It's horrifying.

MARISHA: Percy?

TALIESIN: You're going to have to help us clean at
least our personal belongings.

MARISHA: I didn't do this! I'm more than happy to
help, but I just want you to know: I had nothing

to do with this.

TALIESIN: Oh, I know. I know you had nothing to do
with this. He's useless. You're not, so I'm going

to make you help on his behalf.

MARISHA: It smells like shit. Like a giant fucking
locker down shit in here.

TALIESIN: Worse than hell. Legitimately worse than
hell. This is making me miss hell.

MARISHA: I'm going to cast Control Water. Can I
magic this clean-up like it's

Fantasia or some shit?

MATT: That is Prestidigitation.

MARISHA: No, can I Control Water and levitate the
urine?

TRAVIS: Yeah, totally.

MATT: You know what? Yes, I'll let you do that. I
will let you Control Urine.

MARISHA: I am the leader of my tribe, and I am
doing janitorial duties. Ugh.

MATT: After completing your Aramente, after years
of training in the druidic arts and becoming the

leader of your people, you are reduced to lifting
the urine from a ruined hotel room.

TALIESIN: I would like you to meditate upon who is
responsible for this.

MARISHA: Fucking Vox Machina pieces of-- why am
I-- why are we us?

TALIESIN: This is your boy. I'm taking no
responsibility for this one.

MARISHA: Okay, I control the water and fling it
into the ocean.

MATT: Okay.

LIAM: I'm hearing all this over the earring, and I
whisper, only to Trinket:

I'm back, Trinket. I'm back.

(laughter)

MARISHA: I control a little of the urine that
dribbled in the hall, as well. I don't want us to

get kicked out by the hotel.

MATT: The room's still destroyed. For the sake of
brevity, here--

TALIESIN: Some wild dogs attacked our room.

MATT: Who's talking to the manager about this?

LAURA: Percy is.

TALIESIN: I'll speak to the manager.

MATT: All right.

SAM: (giggles) Wild dogs?

MARISHA: Wild ocean dogs. Beach dogs.

MATT: So at this point, while all this has
happened, Guath, the gentleman at the front, sees

the bear and is like, "What is going--" (yelps)
The dogs go (barks) and jump past him. The

slightly chubby halfling comes forward. "What the
fuck is going on?"

MARISHA: You tell us, man.

MATT: "No, you tell me. This is my place! Whose
dogs were those?"

TALIESIN: We have no idea. We came back and they
were in our room, pissing on our stuff.

MATT: Make a deception check.

TALIESIN: This is not deception!

MATT: You know whose they are.

TALIESIN: Actually, do I know whose they are?

MATT: You've been hearing it over the earring this
whole time.

TALIESIN: I don't know where they came from.

TRAVIS: That's true, he hasn't said.

MATT: That's true.

TALIESIN: I'll do deception.

MATT: Persuasion.

TALIESIN: Persuasion? Well, deception's higher,
but I'll try persuasion.

(laughter)

MARISHA: What the fuck, man?

TALIESIN: No, god damn it.

SAM: Honor yourself.

TALIESIN: I'm honoring myself. It doesn't matter,
anyway. That's 27.

MATT: He goes, (sighs).

TALIESIN: I mean, it was upsetting. Your property,
our property. This is our problem. All of us.

MATT: "Let me see." He pulls past and makes his
way towards the room, and looks inside, and you

can see him go, (distressed noise).

TALIESIN: Has this happened before?

MATT: "No! I've never seen those dogs here before.
The breed? They don't exist!"

(laughter)

TALIESIN: I've never seen them before, either.
I've never seen anything like it.

MATT: (exclaims in a foreign language)

TALIESIN: How good a job did you do on our stuff?

MATT: It's still torn and messed up, but it's not
covered in urine.

It still smells terrible in there.

LIAM: Your clothes and bullshit is fine.

TALIESIN: I know.

MATT: "I'm so sorry."

TALIESIN: It's hardly your fault. This is
ridiculous.

MATT: "We'll get you a new room immediately. Hey!"
Two servants come out immediately. He starts

shouting out to them in Marquesian. They walk off
and eventually people start coming in and

pulling your stuff out of the room and taking it
to another chamber. It's down two halls over, so

you guys are separated from everybody else.

TALIESIN: We have a lot of foreign guests as well,
in our establishment back home, so I know how

things can sometimes get a bit crazy, and I
certainly don't want to put any

undue pressure on you.

MATT: "Oh, it is okay. We will launch an
investigation immediately."

TALIESIN: Excellent.

MATT: So. (laughs) Vex, anything else you want to
do?

LAURA: Yeah, I want to go knock on Tary's door.

MATT: You hear through the doorway this really
creepy, "Tary. Tary."

SAM: I'll take off my blinders, my night-blinders.

TALIESIN: Do they actually have little cucumbers
drawn on them?

SAM: My mask. Come in.

LAURA: Do you have Doty singing to you again?

SAM: Oh, yes. He sings me to sleep now. It's sort
of a ritual we have.

LAURA: I shut the door.

SAM: Did you have a nice night, Little Elf Girl?

LAURA: I didn't, Goldie. Actually, did you happen
to set a couple of dogs loose in our room?

SAM: Well, between you and me, I did.

LAURA: Oh, you did?

SAM: You see, Percival played a little bit of a
prank on me, and I got him back.

LAURA: Yes. Well, you also got me back, and
actually, it wasn't Percival, it was my brother

who did it. Stole your armor?

SAM: But he told me that it was--

LAURA: Yes.

SAM: He told me--

LAURA: Yes, and you believed him over your two
best friends?

SAM: You've taught me so much, but not about the
human heart. (sighs) I am so sorry. I should have

trusted you.

LAURA: You should've!

SAM: I should have not doubted my staunchest ally,
Percival. Of course, someone as trained as he is

in the sciences wouldn't lie to me like that. I
failed you.

LAURA: Tary, you know I can't stay mad at you!

SAM: I'm so sorry!

(laughter)

SAM: What can I do to make it up?

LAURA: I don't know--

SAM: Doty, go clean their room.

LAURA: Thank you, dear.

SAM: I'm so sorry.

LAURA: Oh, it was disgusting.

SAM: But your brother.

LAURA: I know! Trinket peed on him.

SAM: Trinket peed on him? Well, that's pretty
good. I feel like there's more revenge to be had,

but you know what? We're on vacation.

LIAM: Over their earrings, they hear, he also
dropped a loaf.

LAURA: He also dropped a loaf, apparently.

SAM: That's nice. All right. I'm so sorry. Will
you forgive me?

LAURA: Of course I do, dear. Have a wonderful
night's sleep.

SAM: You, too.

LAURA: I'll send Doty back when he's done.

SAM: He can last forever, so just as long as you
need him. He'll wash whatever you need. He has

motor skills. Not fine motor skills, but he could
try to sew something if anything was ripped.

LAURA: I'll check it out and I'll let you know.

SAM: And if you ever need more dogs?

LAURA: You're the man to call.

TALIESIN: I see Doty appear, correct?

MATT: Yeah.

TALIESIN: Doty, they're going to take our things.
I know why you're here.

MATT: He just walks past you.

(laughter)

MATT: Enters the room.

TALIESIN: Are our things even in our room
anymore?

MATT: Your things are being brought out in pieces,
but the two employees see Doty enter and set them

down and Doty starts picking things up and dusts
them off. Starts picking

up the piles of dog feces.

TALIESIN: Tary, call him off.

SAM: Sorry?

TALIESIN: Call him off.

SAM: I'm sorry? Call him off?

TALIESIN: Call him off.

SAM: He's cleaning your things.

TALIESIN: No. We're getting another room.

MARISHA: What is he throwing away?

MATT: He's throwing the dung out onto the beach.
Starts heading back.

SAM: I should have been more specific.

MARISHA: I don't think he's very sanitary.

SAM: This is my earring, by the way.

TALIESIN: I know.

SAM: This is how I have to talk with it. I have to
dangle it.

TALIESIN: I know you have to fiddle your dangle.
I'm well aware.

SAM: All right, I'll be right there to give him
more specific instructions.

TALIESIN: We're going to sleep.

SAM: I'm coming.

LIAM: Do you improve the reception by moving it
around?

MATT: Okay. Over the course of the evening, the
room gets cleaned as best as it can.

TALIESIN: We do not tell them what our new room
number is.

MATT: You guys, from that point being the most
contentious, but you manage to enjoy the rest of

your stay here in the Bay of Gifts. You enjoy a
nice, well-earned vacation, some of you plotting

the next stage in your vengeance, whenever that
may occur. Boarding your ship back, making your

way to your home in Tal'Dorei, across back to
Whitestone proper to finish the remainder of your

year's journey. We're going to take a break.
Before I go, real fast, letting you guys know, we

have another giveaway tonight. This is a nice
purple heart Wyrmwood mini holder,

which is pretty rad.

SAM: Is that what I have?

MATT: Yeah.

SAM: I love it. Honestly, this is the best color.
It's so cool. It's kinda like rose gold, therefore

it's the best.

(laughter)

MATT: There you go. Yeah, so this is going to go
to one of you lucky winners in the chat. The code

word for tonight is Momocon. M-O-M-O-C-O-N. So
go ahead and we'll do that over the break.

Enjoy Liam's episode of Signal Boost.

ASHLEY: It's so good!

LIAM: Man, that was pure Dungeons and Dragons. I
took a little pebble and dropped it and it turned

into a frigging avalanche on the side of Everest.

TALIESIN: That reminded me of the old home games
quite a bit.

MATT: I wasn't expecting that to become our beach
episode, but it did! (laughs) All right, guys,

we'll see you here in a little bit.

[break]

MATT: Welcome back, everybody, to Critical Role.

(laughter)

MATT: First and foremost, our winner in the chat
room goes by the name of Makelovelikewar,

congratulations! Congratulations. You won the box.
We've all signed it, and it'll be coming to you in

the near future. Make sure to contact the folks
who run the chat here, and they'll get your

information, and well done. All righty, so.
Bringing us back in. You guys have been travelling

across the Silvercut Roadway, through the dividing
plains of Tal'Dorei, onwards to the Alabaster

Sierras, and eventually to the homestead of
Whitestone. You guys have made your way back.

MARISHA: We catch up on so much gossip.

MATT: (laughs) So you arrive. What do you want to
do?

TRAVIS: Well, actually, now that we're home, I
would like to try and find Pike once we're in and

settled.

MATT: So you guys all get settled and you find
your way to your rooms. The afternoon comes to a

close for the evening, and everyone's gone off to
do their business and prepare for a dinner, we'll

say, in about an hour.

TRAVIS: Cool. Hey. Hey. Oh, sorry.

ASHLEY: Hello?

TRAVIS: Hey, it's Grog.

ASHLEY: Oh, come in!

TRAVIS: Huh, what?

ASHLEY: Okay.

(laughter)

ASHLEY: Hi, Grog.

TRAVIS: Hi! Hey. Hey. Hey. So, can I shut the
door? So I--

ASHLEY: Yes?

TRAVIS: Oh, okay. I shut the door. So, I have a
secret.

ASHLEY: Ooh?

TRAVIS: Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.

ASHLEY: Okay, okay, okay, okay, okay.

TRAVIS: Okay, so. When we beat Thordak, I was
rummaging around and all of Emon's treasures were

in this one place and everybody was like, "Meh, we
want to heal," and I found these little gifts, and

one of them was this little itty-bitty deck of
cards.

ASHLEY: (gasps)

TRAVIS: I know, right? Now, here's the thing. It
was in a really pretty box: wooden box with gold

all over it. I tried to open it, and it wouldn't,
so I smashed it.

ASHLEY: Naturally.

TRAVIS: Like you do.

ASHLEY: Yeah.

TRAVIS: And I took it out. And I drew a card from
it, and this magic sword appeared in my hand.

ASHLEY: (gasps) So something magic comes out of it
when you pick one? Can I pick one?

TRAVIS: Yeah. Do you want to?

ASHLEY: Yeah.

TRAVIS: Yeah. So I also went and I was journeying
around. I went to Vasselheim. Now, here's the

thing. Vex was like, "No, don't pick one, it's
dangerous. Mm."

ASHLEY: Wait, it can be dangerous?

TRAVIS: Well, no. She's afraid that it's
dangerous, right? Because the sword, it turned to

rust, and I got a headache afterwards. Whatever.

ASHLEY: Okay. Oh.

TRAVIS: But I think I didn't handle it right. But
I went to Vasselheim, and I had this other guy

pick a card. You know?

ASHLEY: Okay.

TRAVIS: And he picked a card. He got two Wishes.

ASHLEY: What!

TRAVIS: Just like that! And he made himself--

ASHLEY: That sounds like the best thing ever.

TRAVIS: I know! He's the Lord of the Crossroads.

ASHLEY: The Crossroads.

TRAVIS: Yep.

ASHLEY: (gasps)

TRAVIS: He's rich; he had a servant who appeared
out of nowhere. All of a sudden he had fuckin'

dope-ass threads.

ASHLEY: Should we-- Whoa. Should we pick a card?

TRAVIS: I mean, I feel like we should. I've seen
nothing but good things happen.

(laughter)

ASHLEY: Wait, what do you mean this sword gave you
a headache, Grog?

TRAVIS: Well, I don't know. So it was a magic
sword, right? I was going to be able to throw it

and it would fight without me. Like it would just
fight things that I told it to.

ASHLEY: Was it evil?

TRAVIS: No! I tried talking to it and it didn't
say anything.

ASHLEY: Okay, that's a--

TRAVIS: We have a history.

ASHLEY: That's a red flag.

TRAVIS: I know. I have a history of, you know.

ASHLEY: So it didn't talk back to you.

TRAVIS: Nope.

ASHLEY: It fought on its own.

TRAVIS: Yep.

ASHLEY: A guy that you met, you made him just rich
and amazing.

TRAVIS: Yeah. Pretty much. I think it's a Deck of
Fortunate Things.

ASHLEY: A Deck of Fortune?

TRAVIS: I think so. I mean, I haven't really
looked at it too closely. Do you want to look at

it with your knowledge?

ASHLEY: I mean, I don't, yeah.

TRAVIS: Yeah.

ASHLEY: I don't know if I have the knowledge, but
I'll look at it.

TRAVIS: All right. I give her the deck.

MATT: All right, make an arcana check.

(gasping)

ASHLEY: Natural 20.

(cheering)

MATT: But what's your skill? What's your skill
bonus?

ASHLEY: Plus one. So 21.

MATT: Okay, you take the small sack that contains
the cards, and you pull the deck out of it, and

you inspect it from the outside. Just checking the
inscriptions. You've heard things about magical

decks of cards. Sometimes they're used to see the
future. Sometimes they're used for different types

of augury and divination. You might've heard a
myth or two about a card deck that can alter

reality in good and bad ways. That's as much as
you are able to glean from this.

ASHLEY: Can I tell which cards are good and which
cards are bad?

MATT: No.

ASHLEY: I was just checking.

(laughter)

ASHLEY: I figured the answer would be 'no'.

MATT: But you do know from looking at this, while
the name doesn't come to you, you're able to

ascertain this seems to be very, very in line with
the fate-altering deck of cards, the one you've

heard can do good and bad, and is as powerful and
dangerous as it is interesting.

ASHLEY: I feel like I've heard of something like
this before.

TRAVIS: Really?

ASHLEY: But sometimes you can choose a card that
will do very bad things.

TRAVIS: Oh.

ASHLEY: So it's like a 50/50 chance that you could
get something very good. Like, you have your

fortune change, you become a king, all of this
thing--

TRAVIS: Or you make a bad person a king?

ASHLEY: Or you get a magical sword. Or if maybe
someone-- you could just die instantly.

TRAVIS: Really?

ASHLEY: I don't know, maybe. Something along those
lines.

TRAVIS: But we're good people, so good things
would happen to us.

ASHLEY: (strained) Oh, it just sounds so fun
though.

TRAVIS: I know, right? And think about my previous
experience. There is nothing bad that has happened

in what I've seen so far.

LAURA: (laughs) Oh god.

ASHLEY: (strained) Oh, I don't know what to do.
Well, do you want to pull one or should I pull

one? Or should we not?

TRAVIS: I don't know. I mean, like, I kind of want
to. I mean, so like. Like bad things.

ASHLEY: What could be that bad? I mean, if someone
were to die, we could do a Resurrection spell.

TRAVIS: How could it just outright kill you? Well
if you die, I can't do a spell.

ASHLEY: (sighs) I don't know what to do. I don't
know if we should. I don't know if we should test

the fates.

TRAVIS: We should flip a coin.

ASHLEY: Let's flip a coin.

TRAVIS: Okay. Do you have a coin?

ASHLEY: Yeah, I have a coin.

TRAVIS: Oh, you do? That was lucky.

MATT: All right. Did you--

MARISHA: "We shouldn't test the fates, let's flip
a coin."

(laughter)

MATT: Do you want me to flip a coin for you?

LIAM: You can roll a 20.

LAURA: Oh yeah, no. We have coins.

MARISHA: I've got one on hand right now, beotches.

TRAVIS: Do you want to?

MATT: It's up to you guys. This is entirely your
call.

MARISHA: Here it is.

LAURA: Oh, Melora.

LIAM: Coming in.

LAURA: There you go.

ASHLEY: Okay.

TRAVIS: What if all the good ones are gone?

ASHLEY: Heads or tails. Okay, so one is heads.

TRAVIS: Heads, because that's all bad in the
heads. But the tail is the booty, so.

ASHLEY: Okay.

LAURA: Wait, but what is what?

ASHLEY: So what's what? 20, we pick a card. One,
we do not.

LIAM: 20, we don't pick a card.

ASHLEY: 20, we don't pick a card.

LIAM: 20 is sensible. One is ridiculous.

ASHLEY: You are not here.

TRAVIS: Yeah, what do you feel like? What do you
feel like? One, we pick a card. 20, we don't-- we

do pick a card.

(laughter)

ASHLEY: That's both of those. You said we'd pick a
card both sides.

TRAVIS: That was a Fraudidean slip.

(laughter)

ASHLEY: Yeah. One, we pick a card. 20, we don't.

TRAVIS: Okay.

ASHLEY: Who picks the card? Or should we--

TRAVIS: We should flip for that too.

ASHLEY: Okay, okay, I'm going to check it. Oh, we
don't pick a card.

TRAVIS: But that was for you, you flipped. And now
I flip.

ASHLEY: Okay. Oh. You don't pick a card either.
You know what? It's safer this way.

TRAVIS: It is?

ASHLEY: I think so. Because what if we would've
gotten something bad? Did you want me to hold onto

it? Or do you want to hold onto it? I'm just
afraid you're going to pick it and be alone.

TRAVIS: I might.

(laughter)

TRAVIS: No, I want it. I really want it. It's real
important to me.

ASHLEY: Do not. Pick it. Alone.

TRAVIS: I've made this promise before.

(laughter)

ASHLEY: Who did you make the promise to?

TRAVIS: Vex.

ASHLEY: Well, you live your life how you want
to--

TRAVIS: Oh. Ooh. No, your promise was different.
You said 'alone' so if I was like really,

(distressed noise) I need to, I come to you--

ASHLEY: Yeah.

TRAVIS: And we pick it.

ASHLEY: Yeah.

TRAVIS: Okay. Deal.

ASHLEY: Yeah, okay.

TRAVIS: Thanks. You're sure you don't want to
just, like, slide one out

and just take a look at it?

ASHLEY: Just take a peek?

TRAVIS: Yep. All right, fine.

(laughter)

ASHLEY: (strained) I want to so bad.

TRAVIS: All right.

LAURA: That is fate. Helping us.

ASHLEY: I know.

TALIESIN: That was like watching an
eight-year-old juggle a gun.

(laughter)

LAURA: Was that another 20?

TRAVIS: Yes.

(laughter)

LIAM: They both want to do it so bad.

MATT: I know.

MARISHA: Moving on from that scene before they
change their mind.

MATT: We'll say for the point of the narrative, a
couple of weeks go by, relatively unimpactful.

LAURA: Oh, I get my circle!

MATT: Yeah, the Teleportation Circle is complete.

LAURA: Hey, guys. We can go to Syngorn whenever we
want.

MARISHA: Oh, rad.

LAURA: Tight, right?

LIAM: The question is, do we want to?

LAURA: Probably not!

MARISHA: Can I go check in with the Sun Tree while
I'm here?

MATT: Yeah, sure. So you walk on down to the
center of Whitestone, which is now far more full

of life and bustling. A lot of the buildings that
line the square have little flower boxes

underneath the windows. Color has returned to it.
Still keeps moody gray skies a large portion of

the day, but overall the city itself seems to have
sprung into life over the past year or so. The Sun

Tree is beautiful. It's still a vastly
bark-visible tree. It has that orange-brown color

across it, smooth in most places, a little more
textured toward the bottom, but you see the very

lush green leaves up into the boughs. You can see
little bits of white flowers that year-round

reside up in the top. It stands there before you
in all of its magnificence.

MARISHA: I come up and say, hey, Sun Tree. Casting
Speak With Plants, of course.

MATT: "Hey, Keyleth."

MARISHA: Hey!

MATT: "It's been a while."

MARISHA: It's been so long. You're looking so
good. So healthy.

MATT: "Thanks. I've been eating right."

MARISHA: Yeah? Have you been working out?

MATT: "As much as I can. You know, I'm a tree."

MARISHA: Sure. Yeah. How's it been? Whitestone
seems so much better. Seems happier. Has morale

been up?

MATT: "I mean, yeah."

MARISHA: Yeah?

MATT: "There's kids and stuff."

MARISHA: Yeah? Do the kids sometimes climb in
you?

MATT: "Yeah."

MARISHA: Do you like that?

MATT: "No."

MARISHA: No? Oh, right.

MATT: "No, it's uncomfortable."

MARISHA: Really?

MATT: "Yeah."

MARISHA: Should I put a Do Not Climb sign on you?
Would you like that?

MATT: "Would you have to nail it into me?"

MARISHA: No. I could stake it in the ground around
you.

MATT: "It's fine."

MARISHA: Okay.

MATT: "But thank you. I appreciate the offer."

MARISHA: Anything to make you more comfortable,
man.

MATT: "Appreciate it."

MARISHA: Yeah.

MATT: "You're great."

MARISHA: Oh, thanks. Anyway, is there anything
else that you need? Any new news?

Anything going on?

MATT: "Nah. Glad the snowing stopped."

MARISHA: Right? Thought that winter would last
forever, right?

MATT: "It's hard to keep these blossoms up through
the winter, let me tell you."

MARISHA: Oh, yeah? But you're still good.

MATT: "Yeah. How are you doing, Kiki?"

MARISHA: Oh, you know. Keeping busy, keeping on
keeping on, you know? It's been good. You're like

the coolest person I know, and you're a tree. It's
weird. Even after a year, it's like talking to an

old friend. It's good.

MATT: "If I could blush."

(laughter)

TALIESIN: Oh wow.

MARISHA: Oh, look! Some of these flowers are
getting a little pink, Sun Tree.

MATT: "Don't point it out. It's embarrassing. So.
Hi."

MARISHA: No, that's all. It's actually getting a
little awkward now.

It's gone on for a little long.

MATT: "I'm glad you brought that up. I didn't want
to breach the subject."

MARISHA: I just wanted to make sure you were
cool.

MATT: "No, I'm cool."

MARISHA: Yeah. Awesome. Okay, I'll see you around.
Bye.

MATT: Hang up.

LAURA: It's going to be a while before you guys
call again.

MARISHA: I'll wait for him to text me first. Yeah.
It's the rule. Long time.

TALIESIN: I don't know what they're looking at.

MATT: I don't know, either. Partway into the day,
we'll say that you've been doing this. The

bakery's been going fine. Which, actually, Pike
and Vex, you've been in the process of-- have you

guys hired employees to run the bakery?

LAURA: Obviously.

MATT: Are you more playing as managers as opposed
to actual workers?

MARISHA: Owners.

LAURA: Creative input.

MATT: Pike, on this day, you've been keeping tabs
on this. A couple of the Pale Guard approach the

bakery. One of them, without seeing you, walks in
and goes,

"We're looking for Pike. Is Miss Pike in?"

ASHLEY: Yes?

MATT: "Could you please come with us? There's
somebody on the border requesting your presence."

ASHLEY: Where?

MATT: "On the outskirts of Whitestone."

ASHLEY: Okay. Yes.

MATT: "Someone who says they know you. You'd
better come with us."

ASHLEY: Okay.

MATT: The two guards step back and-- do you walk
with them?

ASHLEY: Yes.

LAURA: Are any of us with you?

MATT: It's just her, at the moment.

MARISHA: Does she walk past the Sun Tree when I'm
having a random conversation with no one?

MATT: Make a perception check.

MARISHA: Rolling really shitty tonight. Let's see
what happens. Oh, that's good! That's much better.

Straight perception? 30.

MATT: Okay. As you're walking away from the Sun
Tree and begin heading back to the northern side

of Whitestone, glancing back at him. "Oh, it's
good to talk to him again." And you see Pike

walking with two guards just on the southwestern
side of the square. She looks a little nervous.

MARISHA: It's about that time I'm like, okay, bye,
Sun Tree. And then I'm going to Beast Shape into a

crow and start circling her.

MATT: There are two kids off to the side that were
just playing who look over and go, "Whoa."

LAURA: That was amazing!

ASHLEY: That was awesome!

MATT: "I want to do that!"

MARISHA: Poop on the way up.

LAURA: That was even cooler!

MATT: They did not see that. So, as you're brought
to the western road, it leads you alongside the

shops and one of the guard who's talking to you is
like, "Yeah, sorry. A group of folks have been

"here for a couple of days asking-- a few hours, I
should say. Not a couple of days. Asking about

"you. We've kept an eye on them. They don't seem to
be aggressive, but they asked for you recently,

"and we managed to find you by the bakery. Here
they are." They lead you to the outside of the

town, and there you see a small carriage with two
horses that are currently hitched up front. You

see about three other Pale Guard in full armor.
One of them is in the middle of conversation with

a couple of figures. You see four figures. You see
three, and then a fourth one emerges from inside

the carriage. It's a topped carriage with what looks
to be some sort of curtains that are closed-- reds

and dark purples. It doesn't look like an
elaborate carriage, but it's functional.

You see a male gnome with short dark hair, slicked
to one side, and a well-groomed mustache that

curls at the end. He's in the middle of talking
when he glances over and sees you and goes, "Aha!

"She's here!" He leaps off the top and the guards
get defensive as he goes,

"Astra! Ogden! JB? She's here!"

Then he goes rushing off in your direction as the
guards are like, "Sir! Sir!"

He ignores them for a second, and the two guards
with you say, "Miss Pike, should we?" And they go

for their blades.

ASHLEY: It's okay.

MATT: He approaches real fast and goes, (laughs)
and gives a big old hug and lifts you off the

ground, and it takes you a minute to realize, this
is Johann Trickfoot, your cousin who you haven't

seen in quite a long time. He's dressed in a fine
vest that is a dark maroon color with a gold trim.

A little ragged at the edges, but fine. Big,
swishy pants and boots, and he lifts you up for a

second and then sets you back down and is like,
"It's been quite a while."

ASHLEY: It's been so long. How did you know where
to find me?

MATT: "Well, we got your letter! And we've been
hearing all about you-- at least, JB's been

"telling us all about you, hasn't she?" And he
looks around and you

see the other figures as they approach.

There's a female gnome, older than you, who you
haven't met before, who has curly

strawberry-blonde hair that goes just past her
shoulders. She's wearing this very revealing shirt

and seems to walk with a confidence and smile and
she goes, "Pike, my dear!

"I've heard all about you!" And she rushes up and 
gives you a big hug as well.

You look back, and stepping off the carriage, you
see a very old gnome who is just a wreath of black

and salt-and-pepper hair, crazy, around him like a
lion's mane, and a giant beard. You wouldn't see a

face if not for these small spectacles and a
little button nose poking out as he's being helped

off the wagon by another female gnome that you
recognize as she turns around towards you. She has

long, straight black hair that goes right past her
shoulders. She has a Wednesday Addams vibe to her.

She looks back at you and smiles, and you can see
this gap in her front teeth. She's about your age.

This is JB Trickfoot. She is the--

MARISHA: JB?

MATT: JB. She's another one of your cousins. One
that you grew up with, actually, when you were

very young, but you haven't seen her in a very
long time. As they all begin to approach, this

small cluster of Trickfoots have approached. As JB
walks up to answer Johann, says, "Yes, indeed.

"We've heard all about you. I've been so proud to
hear that you've done such great good in the

"world, cousin."

ASHLEY: I give her a hug. It's good to see you.
It's been a very long time.

MATT: "Far too long."

ASHLEY: Did you guys just come here to see me?

MATT: "Yes."

Johann claps his arm on the side of your shoulder.
"Yes, of course! It's been-- I can't even

"remember. Look at how big you are! Last I saw you,
you were waist-high to a knuckle-punch. It's been

"far too long. And so strong!" He's slapping the
side of your arm, and they're all doing the whole

family gathering, pulling and tugging, and you're
starting to feel uncomfortable from all the

attention, and the guards are all confused but
also mildly amused by this family gathering.

The old one now catches up, and you recognize that
this is your uncle Ogden Trickfoot, who is the

father to both Johann and JB. As he approaches, he
has this small walking cane and he's walking at an

angle because he doesn't quite see you. He's like,
"Are you sure that she's around?"

ASHLEY: I'm right here!

MATT: "Huh?"

ASHLEY: Hi.

MATT: "Ah. Yes."

ASHLEY: How are you?

MATT: "I'm all right. It's so good to see you."

ASHLEY: It's so wonderful to see you.

MATT: "There you are."

ASHLEY: I'm here.

MATT: He adjusts his head a little. "They tell me
that you slay dragons!"

ASHLEY: Yes, I did. With my friends.

MATT: "What?"

ASHLEY: Who I would love to introduce you guys to.
My friends?

MATT: "What did she say?"

ASHLEY: My friends!

MATT: JB's like, "She said yes. She's slayed
dragons."

ASHLEY: I also--

MATT: "What?"

ASHLEY: I also have a bakery!

MATT: "She says a bakery?"

ASHLEY: It's called the Slayer's Cake!

MATT: "Cake?" Suddenly you see his face brighten.
Between the bursts of facial and head hair, you

see a little bit of rosy cheeks poke through with
a smile. JB goes, "We'll get you cake. We'll get

"you a cake, uncle."

ASHLEY: Come this way. I didn't realize you guys
would be coming, but I'm glad that you got my

letter and everything else.

MATT: At which point, the blonde one goes, "Yes,
of course we did. You are as beautiful as

"everything they told me. I'm Astra, by the way.
I'm Johann's wife. We haven't met, but you are a

"sight to see." She takes your hands and pulls your
hands and goes, "Oh my, and aren't you the

"strapping young lady. Who's the lucky man?"

ASHLEY: Oh. Well, no one right now.

MATT: "Oh. Shouldn't be a problem. Or woman.
Whatever, I don't know. You can tell me later."

ASHLEY: We'll discuss later, maybe, but do come
in. I would love to introduce you to some friends

of mine. Come into town.

MATT: JB's smile creeps, and you see the gap in
her teeth once more.

"Are these friends Vox Machina?"

ASHLEY: Yes.

MATT: At which point, they all look at her, and
she goes, "I'm so excited. Please?"

And they all gather around you, and the guard
comes up real fast.

"Miss, do you require assistance?"

ASHLEY: Just walk us into town. That would be
great. Just in case there's anything that might

jump out and get us.

MATT: "Very well." And the three guards that were
at the front shout out, "The carriage?"

And Johann goes, "Oh, yes! Well, it's now under
the watch of one Pike Trickfoot, so just put it

"wherever the royal horses go." (chuckles)

TRAVIS: Oh god.

LAURA: Oh, I don't like them at all.

LIAM: A cart of the Sackville-Bagginses just
rolled up.

ASHLEY: Let me-- you know what? Guards, can you
take them to the Slayer's Cake? And I will be

right there.

MATT: "Of course! You're a busy woman. Don't worry
about it."

Astra fluffs her hair a bit. "Besides, I can have
a guard escort me any day." The guard just grabs

her arm and starts walking along with her. You can
already tell she's a bubbly flirt.

MARISHA: Keyleth flies down and lands on Pike's
shoulder.

ASHLEY: Hey. Okay, so you just saw that. My
family's here, the family I haven't really seen

since I was a kid, and they're-- we have the last
name Trickfoot for a reason. I'm going to get on

the earring and say, whoever is available, I would
love to maybe have you come to the Slayer's Cake.

Some of my family is here.

TRAVIS: (gasps, running noises)

ASHLEY: Hold on! Watch your pockets, watch your
stuff. Just keep an eye on your things. Yeah, just

please come?

LAURA: We've got you, darling.

MARISHA: I bamf out of my Beast Shape. Whoa!
What?

ASHLEY: Okay, I sent money. I didn't tell them
where I was.

MARISHA: You sent money?

ASHLEY: I did. I don't know, maybe I shouldn't
have done it. I just wanted to make sure that they

were okay. Maybe that wasn't a good idea.

MARISHA: You've told us very vague amounts about
your family.

ASHLEY: Because they're--

MARISHA: It was surprising. You haven't talked
about them too much, just that they're shady.

ASHLEY: I left when I was very young, so a lot of
them I don't really know. Okay.

MARISHA: You know, we love you, and family or not,
if anyone tries to fucking use you, we will--

ASHLEY: Thank you. Okay. I don't think it'll come
to that.

MARISHA: All right. I just don't want anyone
taking advantage of you.

ASHLEY: Right.

MATT: As you're having this conversation,
(thudding sounds)

TRAVIS: (shouting) Gnomes! (pants)

ASHLEY: Okay. Just get ready. Let's go to the
Slayer's Cake.

TALIESIN: I'm walking from the cemetery. However
far that is.

ASHLEY: They alluded to the fact that they know
who Vox Machina is, which I guess in this day and

age, people know who we are. Which is weird. Okay,
just be prepared, because it's not like I'm

embarrassed of my family or anything, I just--
they're great! I just don't really know them.

TRAVIS: You don't know them?

ASHLEY: Okay, Wilhand took me out of there when I
was six, so it's been a while.

MARISHA: Have you kept in contact with any of them
until recently?

ASHLEY: Not really? JB, my cousin who you'll meet in a
little bit, but not really. Not really at all.

TRAVIS: Yeah, they never came by Wilhand's.

ASHLEY: No, they have so many things to do.

TRAVIS: Busy. Important.

ASHLEY: Busy. But just hold onto your butts. Hold
onto your things. They are sneaky. Sneaky-sneaky.

They like to take things, and they're fast and
small and that little sleight-of-hand didn't get

passed down to me, but-- oh, I'm so uncomfortable
right now!

TRAVIS: Yeah, you're sweating a lot.

MARISHA: Here. And I dab her brow off a little.

ASHLEY: Thanks.

MARISHA: Do you need anything? Do you need
anything to look cool?

TRAVIS: Do you want some deodorant? You kind of
smell.

ASHLEY: Yeah.

MARISHA: Okay. I pull out my oils that I use on
Vax. Here you go. You're good. Much better.

LAURA: Have we caught up with them yet?

MATT: Yeah, they've been having this conversation
with them just standing in the square not far from

the Slayer's Cake.

TALIESIN: That's never going to get old.

MATT: It'll never get old. Yeah, so you've caught
up at this point. Percy, you've just started to

see them in the distance.

TALIESIN: Yeah. I'm excited.

MATT: Taryon, I don't know if you're--

SAM: I'm at the Slayer's Cake. I am making
blondies.

MATT: Okay. So, while you guys are having this
conversation, Taryon, you hear what sounds like

ruckus, laughter, conversation, voices
overlapping, getting louder and louder and then

suddenly the front door to the Slayer's Cake,
which has been quiet this afternoon, (thud). And

then, (laughs) "Oh! This place is amazing! Do you
smell that? You smell that, Uncle?"

And you watch as the uncle comes in. (sniffs)
"Smells like rocks."

SAM: Rocks?

MATT: "He lost his smell when he was very-- it was
a terrible accident. Horse hoof in the face.

"Anyway, hi! We're family of Pike Trickfoot, and we
were told to come here and try your wares! So this

"is a bakery?"

SAM: In Gnomish, welcome to the store. Any family
of Pike Trickfoot is family of mine. I am one of

her closest friends, Taryon Darrington. Here you
go. Blondies on the house for everyone to

celebrate your blondie, Pike Trickfoot.

MATT: "She wasn't always blonde, you know."

SAM: Oh, I don't know that at all. What?

MATT: Yeah. I guess she wanted a change of pace.
She had dark hair when she was younger.

SAM: Really?

MATT: "Astra, free treats!" And they start
grabbing and filling their pockets with blondies

and eating them in between.

SAM: I've got more. Sure. You can take all you
want. Everything in the store is yours.

MATT: You watch as JB walks up with long, dark
hair, and goes,

"Do you happen to have any water?"

SAM: Of course! Doty, go fetch some water for
these fine gnomes.

MATT: "Tary." Grabs and gets a small bucket of
water and sets it down. You watch as JB begins

breaking up the pastry and dipping it in the water
and then feeding it to the uncle.

SAM: Ugh.

MATT: Occasionally has to right his face, and it's
getting caught in the beard a little bit.

SAM: You know, family is everything, and I'm so
pleased to meet you. Can you tell me what she was

like as a child?

MATT: "Well, (chuckles) she--" At that point, the
door bursts open and the rest of you arrive there

at the Slayer's Cake.

TRAVIS: Yes!

ASHLEY: Oh, I see you got some blondies.

MATT: "We did. Your friend here--"

SAM: Taryon Darrington.

MATT: "Taryon Darrington, who apparently speaks
Gnomish-- look at you, keeping your culture. Was

"nice enough to give us the run of the house!"

SAM: I told them they could have anything they
wanted in the place, free of charge.

ASHLEY: I mean, just don't get sick by having too
many pastries.

MATT: (chuckles) "Oh, my dear. That's not
possible."

ASHLEY: This is-- guys? Everybody? This is my
family. This is part of my family.

MATT: "Johann Trickfoot, random tasker, at your
service." He bows.

The woman with the curls says, "Astra Trickfoot.
This here's my lumpy husband." Elbows him in the

side. "And also at your service." And glances over
and does a quick scan of everybody and falls on

you and gives you a wink.

JB, who is currently feeding the older uncle Ogden
Trickfoot, goes, "I'm JB. I'm the cousin who grew

"up with her the most. She's my favorite." At which
point, she's been so concentrated on this, she

doesn't realize she's been mashing the food into
the side of Ogden's cheek. (babbling) "I'm sorry."

She wipes him down.

LIAM: I'm sorry. What brings you fine folk into
town? Are you just visiting Pike here?

MATT: Astra goes, "Well, we travel a lot and we've
heard of exploits in various towns all around. I

"just have not had the chance to meet Pike after
all the stories I've heard, and Johann speaks of

"her often, and JB is pretty much obsessed with
your exploits."

JB's over there. "I've been keeping tabs."

"So we were surprised that we were located by a
courier who gave us your letter and your

"absolutely unnecessary but very appreciated
donation to the family, and we thought it would be

"nice and right of us to come and thank you in
person."

ASHLEY: Well, I'm so glad you did. How in the
world did you find out that I was here?

MATT: Johann and Astra turn their heads to JB, and
JB goes, "Well, I'm keeping tabs on what you've

"been doing. There had been word that you not only
helped with the reconstruction of Emon, but you've

"also been traveling to and from Whitestone since
the Conclave attacked the continent, so we

"narrowed it down between a few possibilities, and
based on the fact that you, Percival-- this is

"your city, is that correct? We figured that given
that basis, we had a good chance. We passed

"through Westruun and could not find you. Wilhand,
however, did say that you're doing well, and we

"eventually made our way east, and here we are.
It's good to see you."

ASHLEY: It's good to see you.

TRAVIS: Do me next. What have I done?

MATT: "You're Grog Strongjaw. Yes. You're the one
that apparently replaced me."

ASHLEY: Well--

TRAVIS: Huh?

MATT: "You grew up together once we were not, and
you're a strong half-giant of a man. The beard

"confuses me, but you've done many great things, I
suppose. The rest of you, it is an honor to meet

"you. I've heard so much, and it's rare you get to
meet heroes in your lifetime."

(shouting) "What? I'm still hungry!"

TRAVIS: They're so nice. I feel terrible.

ASHLEY: Are you guys just passing through? Where's
your next destination?

MATT: Johann pops up and goes, "We're always
passing through, my dear, but we figured we'd just

"stay for a few days. However long it takes to get
to know you a little better, and then we'll be on

"our way."

MARISHA: Did he say weeks? Did he slip that in?

MATT: "We could stay weeks, if you'd like!"

LAURA: Well, you know, days might be more--

TRAVIS: As long as you need.

MATT: "We've been traveling. We're very tired."

TRAVIS: Pike's family is our family, really.

SAM: Agreed.

LIAM: I just want to get a vibe on them. I want to
do an insight check and see what I think of them.

MARISHA: Can I assist him on that?

MATT: Insight you can't-- you have to make an
individual insight check.

MARISHA: Individuals?

LIAM: Oh, jeebus. Crap. 13.

MARISHA: 26.

MATT: Okay. They're hard to read, in general.
They're strange. They're interesting. They're

unique. But they seem to be jovial and full of
personality. You get a very familiar vibe as you

did with Dr. Dranzel's troupe.

TRAVIS: Could I request one thing? Could I have a
hug?

MATT: From?

TRAVIS: Yeah, all of you at once!

SAM: A bunch of kittens on a man.

MATT: They look at each other. Johann, and then
Astra rushes in. They both give you a hug, and

then Astra goes, "Uncle Ogden!" She grabs Ogden
and (yelps) comes over and, "I'm confused." He's

being held against you, really, and you watch as
JB approaches and pats you.

TRAVIS: It's okay.

ASHLEY: JB? Can I talk to you for just a minute?

MATT: "Of course."

ASHLEY: Just step outside on the outdoor bench.

MATT: She follows you out there. "You look so
pretty."

ASHLEY: Oh, thank you.

MATT: "You've done so many good things. I've heard
so many good things. It's so good to see you."

ASHLEY: It's very good to see you. How have you
been?

MATT: "Well, I've been watching Ogden. Traveling
and seeing the sights of the countrysides of

"Tal'Dorei. It's life on the road."

ASHLEY: I know. I understand that. How are my
parents?

MATT: She looks around and goes, "Well, we haven't
heard from your immediate side of the family since

"your bastard father left for Wynandia across the
sea. Good riddance. No offense."

ASHLEY: No. None taken.

MATT: "That was a long time ago. I was young. But
no, seriously.

"You're not missing much with them."

ASHLEY: Can I insight check her?

MATT: Go for it.

ASHLEY: Oh no. 13?

MATT: 13? She seems guarded and hard to read, but
legit.

ASHLEY: Okay. Well. Have you guys, in your
travels--

you know who Scanlan Shorthalt is, I'm sure?

MATT: She lights up and goes, "Yes, I've heard of
him. Is he around?"

ASHLEY: He's not around.

MATT: "Oh. Okay, but I've heard of him. I've heard
of his exploits. (chuckles) As I've asked around,

"he's left quite a trail of ladies through the
years."

ASHLEY: He definitely has.

MATT: "They have a lot to say about him."

ASHLEY: Yes.

MATT: "Bit of a scoundrel, that one."

ASHLEY: Such a scoundrel.

LAURA: God, she's so weird.

(laughter)

LAURA: It makes me so uncomfortable.

ASHLEY: All right, well, let's go back inside.

MATT: "Of course. I'm glad we had this bonding
time."

ASHLEY: Me, too.

MATT: "You want to come, right?" She grabs your
arms and tugs a little bit. You get a very faint

sense of mild arrested development that makes you
a little uncomfortable.

ASHLEY: Yeah.

MATT: She walks inside with you with her arm on
your shoulder, and as you come back inside, the

hug seems to have pulled away from Grog for a
second, but the laughter is billowing from the

room, and Johann, at this point, is mid-story to
Grog. "And that's the craziest thing! She was so

"small, but could yet poop so much."

TRAVIS: I love it!

MATT: "It's incredible!"

TRAVIS: That's my favorite kind of people. Big
pooper!

MATT: "If we could have painted a picture, you
wouldn't know where she put it away! But that's

"another story."

ASHLEY: Oh, well, we don't need to keep saying
these things. You know, if you guys would like to

stay just for a few days, because we're going to
be leaving.

TRAVIS: No, we're not. We're here for a long
time.

ASHLEY: We have a lot of stuff to do.

LAURA: Trip coming up.

MATT: "Of course! Days. Weeks was invited here, of
course, but--"

LAURA: She doesn't actually live here.

MARISHA: I'm a guest, foreigner, just like you.
Passing through. Traveling on.

ASHLEY: I think we have a thing that we have to go
fight, and we have so many

things that we have to do.

TRAVIS: We just got done fighting all the things.
We're settling here.

LAURA: (groans)

ASHLEY: We have some things planned.

MATT: Astra steps forward and takes your hand and
she goes, "It's all right, dear. We're not going

"to stay longer to make it uncomfortable. I'm sorry
about these folks."

ASHLEY: No, no.

MATT: "I married into the Trickfoots. I'm not
bound to the same ridiculousness as these guys, so

"don't worry."

ASHLEY: Okay.

MARISHA: Can I insight check that?

MATT: Sure.

MARISHA: I don't trust your "married in this
bullshit" shit. 20, total.

MATT: 20 total?

TALIESIN: Yeah!

LAURA: I bet she's at the helm!

TALIESIN: Happy new year, everybody.

LAURA: I don't like her winking at Percy!

TALIESIN: While we're whispering about things--

SAM: We have a great new shirt in the store. It
says Vox Machina.

LAURA: (silly accent) If you could get a close-up,
you would see all of the Vox Machina's made of a

different weapon that Vox Machina uses.

TALIESIN: That was amazing.

ASHLEY: Well, why don't you guys stay in my place,
and I'll take care of you guys while you're here?

Just explore the town, and when we're getting
ready to go, I'll let you know, and you guys can

go on your merry way.

MATT: "That sounds fantastic."

ASHLEY: Okay.

MATT: "It's so happy to have the Trickfoots
together again."

ASHLEY: It's just so great.

MATT: "So where are we all staying?"

ASHLEY: Well, you can stay at my place.

MATT: "Fantastic! Wondrous. Show us along! We have
things to unload."

ASHLEY: Okay.

LAURA: Do you want to grab any of the last bit of
pastries for the day?

Obviously, free treats today.

SAM: Oh, but don't fill up, because I assume we're
all going to have dinner tonight together, right?

ALL: Yeah.

ASHLEY: Yeah, let's have dinner.

MATT: "Wonderful. I love it. I love it!"

LAURA: Free treats today! Just today. Just today,
free treats for the family.

After that, no free treats.

MATT: As you're saying this, Uncle Ogden has
stepped forward again and JB is like,

"Uncle Ogden?" He (grunts) and reaches out and finds the
edge of your cheek and chin and he drops his cane,

pulls his glasses off, and you see these tiny,
dark beady eyes between the wrinkles and he goes,

"Pike."

ASHLEY: Hi.

MATT: "It's so good to see you."

ASHLEY: It's so good to see you.

MATT: "Thank you. You're a good one." He puts his
glasses back on and reaches out, and JB picks up a

stick and hands it to him. He's like, "Thank
you."

ASHLEY: Thank you, Uncle Ogden.

LAURA: Does it look like he really needs that
cane?

MATT: You want to make an insight check?

(laughter)

MATT: Sure, go for it.

TRAVIS: Kick the cane out, see what happens.
Do you need this? Boom!

LAURA: I think it looks like he really needs it.

MATT: You genuinely feel bad for even having that
second thought.

(laughter)

LAURA: I do. I feel really terrible.

SAM: In my broken Gnome, I tell him: it's an honor
to mate you.

(laughter)

MATT: His head spins for a second. He smiles, and
in Gnomish back to you, he says,

"Oh. It's been a while."

SAM: I love him.

ASHLEY: Well, should we get some dinner? Are you
guys hungry, or have you filled up on pastries?

MATT: "Oh!" You watch as Johann spits out the
pastry. "Always hungry!"

ASHLEY: Okay, great. Well, let's have a delicious
dinner.

MARISHA: We could always go hunting for our
dinner. Classic way.

LAURA: That's how we do it in Whitestone. You have
to hunt if you want to eat.

That's how we do it here.

MATT: "Is that how you got your pastries?"

LAURA: Well, hunting for any kind of meat.
Pastries you pay for.

ASHLEY: For the meat pies.

MATT: "Well, we're not hunters, so I guess we'll
stay here until you finish hunting. You know we're

"not hunters. We've never been hunters. Trickfoots
don't hunt."

ASHLEY: We can-- (sighs).

SAM: Let's go freshen up for dinner.

ASHLEY: We'll go freshen up for dinner.

MATT: "Not a bad idea. I could use a bath,
actually. How about you, Astra?"

Astra's like, "Oh, I'd love a bath right now. I've
been on the road for so long."

And JB goes, "Uncle could really use a bath."

ASHLEY: Uncle could use a bath, I know.

TRAVIS: He could. He smells like cheese.

ASHLEY: All right. I'll walk you guys. Let's walk
to my place.

MATT: "Very well. Show us along!"

LAURA: I want to whisper to you as we walk back to
the house: don't give them any more free things,

all right?

SAM: What? I thought they were Pike's people.

LAURA: Yeah, they're great. They're wonderful, but
no more free stuff. Just today,

but no more after that.

SAM: Okay. Of course. I'm sorry if I was out of
line.

LAURA: Of course not. You're so generous.

SAM: I love you.

LAURA: I love you so much.

LIAM: I'm hooking Kiki by the arm. Hey, you've got
that look in your eye.

MARISHA: I just don't like it when people try to
take advantage of my friends, but they're family,

and if anyone is in need, I don't want to
potentially put them out.

LIAM: But you think they're a little bit hinky?
That's a yes.

MARISHA: We can just keep an eye out. I'm
protective.

TALIESIN: Pike, if you need anything, just let me
know. And I completely understand the awkward

position you're currently being put in.

ASHLEY: Oh god, it's so awkward! I just don't
know. Thank you, Percy. I'll let you know if

there's anything that I need.

TALIESIN: Keep an eye on the odd one.

ASHLEY: Which one? Because they're all odd.

TALIESIN: JB. She reminds me of me at that age.
That's not a good thing.

MARISHA: I say to Vax: Just keep an eye on the odd
one, all right?

TALIESIN: See if you notice an interest.

TRAVIS: Pike, are there any more coming?

TALIESIN: If you notice an interest in that one,
please let me know. Maybe I could figure out what

she's interested in and show her around, maybe.

ASHLEY: Okay. That's a great idea. So this is all
of you, then, that came? You guys have been

traveling around, just yourselves?

TRAVIS: Got any more of you coming?

MATT: "Not coming with us. The Trickfoots tend to
scatter on their own."

TRAVIS: Like bunnies.

MATT: "Yeah, sure. We'll go with that one. Yeah,
not everyone can be trusted in the family."

ASHLEY: Yeah.

MATT: "It's frustrating. The people that you care
for and spend your life hitting behind betray that

"trust, and good riddance to them."

ASHLEY: Oh. Well, is there anything you would like
to see while you're here?

MATT: They all look back at JB, who lights up
again and goes, "Everything."

ASHLEY: Okay. Well, is there anyone in particular
you would like to give you a tour?

MATT: JB is like, "Well, I--"

And Johann goes, "I feel like if we don't choose 
him, we're going to get squashed."

(laughter)

MATT: You can see a moment of heartbreak and JB
goes, "Very well."

TRAVIS: Yes!

MATT: "Mr. Strongjaw, you may show us around."

TRAVIS: Yeah. You won't regret that choice.

ASHLEY: All right, come with me. You can come to
my place, freshen up before dinner, and we'll have

a great time.

MATT: "Great! Great. Now, to the baths. How big
are your baths? Are they huge? Are they

"human-sized baths? Are they bigger than
human-sized baths?"

LIAM: Not quite big enough.

(laughter)

LAURA: You don't know.

MATT: "You!" All right, so you show them up to the
castle, which I assume is where you're letting

them stay.

LAURA: They're staying in the castle?

TALIESIN: The guards have generally been alerted
to be wary, kind, polite, and less important that

they stop them from doing anything too terrible,
more to the point that they just write it down and

report it immediately.

(laughter)

TALIESIN: Unless anyone's doing something
terrible, or going somewhere they really

shouldn't.

MATT: Right. Okay. That information is easily
distributed throughout the Pale Guard,

without issue.

LIAM: "I guess that silverware wasn't so
important."

TALIESIN: Oh, we're bringing out the moderate
silverware.

ASHLEY: That's a good idea. That's a great idea.

LAURA: All the good silver is hidden. Hidden up
high.

MATT: Because there are only within the castle at
any given time, four baths. Four rooms that

contain full baths. Occasionally, you have to wait
for a person, but they immediately scatter. Three

of them are taken.

ASHLEY: Okay. We might have to wait a little bit.

MATT: You wait a while. Eventually, they one by
one start making their way down to the main

banquet hall of the castle. Cleaned up. You watch
as Johann comes down, wearing his same clothing

that appears to have been cleaned. "Wow! I'm
appreciative that you have servants here that can

"do such a nice job with such fine family threads."
His mustache is done perfectly. His hair is still

slick and wet from the bath, combed over. "Well,
thank you. It's in the blood."

ASHLEY: (chuckles) It sure is.

MATT: He turns around. "Astra? What's taking her
so long?" Walks back out to the stairway and

rushes past the guards, his little gnomish head
dodging by their knees, almost. He goes,

(shouting) "Astra!"

You hear a voice go, (shouting) "I'm almost done!
Wait and be patient!"

He goes back. "She'll be down in a moment. Don't
worry. In the meantime,

"is there an appetizer course?"

ASHLEY: Sure. Why don't you take a seat, and order
whatever you want, on me.

MATT: "You're so generous!" He pinches your cheek.
He waltzes over to the table, sits down and grabs

the fork and knife. "Two bottles of red, and...
ooh, what vintage have you?" He begins talking

with the servants about what various wines are
available.

LAURA: I'm just going to pop into the kitchen.

MATT: Okay.

LAURA: And tell the staff in the kitchen:
obviously, you can make whatever you want. I'm

just hoping maybe you don't make it too tasty
tonight. Nothing too extravagant. You know, nice,

but average. Right?

MATT: The servants that are there, the whole
waitstaff and kitchen staff go,

"Of course, milady."

LAURA: Nothing great.

MATT: "A curious request, but one we will fulfill
to our greatest ability."

LAURA: Thank you so much. Lots of salad, lots of
very dry, hard meat. Turnips. Lots of turnips.

TALIESIN: Heavy food.

LAURA: Yeah.

SAM: I'm going to pop into the kitchen after she's
done.

(laughter)

SAM: All right, family's here tonight, so
everything has to be on its best, all right? The

best stuff we have in this kitchen. These are
Trickfoots. We have to treat them right, and we

have to treat them well.

MATT: The staff stops and goes, "Friend Taryon,
I'm sorry, but the lady requested specifically

"that the meal not be--"

SAM: What lady?

MATT: "Lady Vex'ahlia."

SAM: She was being polite. These are good people.
They need to be treated--

MATT: Make a persuasion check. You're asking them
to override the word of the lady of the house.

SAM One.

(laughter)

MATT: He goes, "I am sorry, but--"

SAM: Who's your manager?

MATT: "The lady you're speaking about."

SAM: Oh, you're right. She is your manager.

LIAM: Tary, you have Luck!

TALIESIN: Back to the pool house with you.

SAM: I do have Luck.

LAURA: (groans) No!

SAM: What am I doing?

MATT: Persuasion.

LAURA: No.

SAM: That's 24.

TALIESIN: Oh!

MATT: He goes, "But if you say it's the word of
Lady Vex'ahlia--"

SAM: These are Trickfoots, man. Trickfoots! Treat
them as you would your own mother.

MATT: "I'm so confused. We'll do our best. Holy shit."
You see this internal struggle. "Everyone! Fine

"meat's back on the menu. Sorry." And the staff
goes, (groans) and starts throwing shit out that

they were halfway working on and starting from
scratch.

SAM: I go out and grab Vex. Little EG, what are
you doing? You told them to give them bad food

tonight? These are Trickfoots! We have to treat
them with honor and respect.

LAURA: Tary! Ugh.

TALIESIN: You said what?

LAURA: Okay, look. All right. If your father came,
and you dislike him very much, right?

SAM: I would give him the best.

LAURA: Oh shit. Okay, bad comparison. These people
suck. They're mean--

SAM: What are you talking about? They've been
nothing but nice. They've showered her with kisses

and affection. It's affection that I've never even
seen in a family before!

LAURA: Tary, dear. Darling. They don't treat her
very well, and they'll use her, and they'll stay

here and keep taking advantage of her, and we
don't want that.

SAM: But I get to practice my Gnome.

LAURA: Well, that's true. You can practice as much
as you want over the next couple of days, but we

don't want to impress them. The more they like it,
the longer they'll stay.

TALIESIN: They'll figure out that the poor food--
I feel like they're clever enough for that one.

Best to feed them well, at least.

LAURA: Really?

TALIESIN: I know.

SAM: I'll back off.

LAURA: Thank you.

TALIESIN: Continue to be charming.

SAM: Always.

TRAVIS: I walk into the kitchen. I go, okay.
Listen up! I need peanut butter, I need turkey

legs, eggs, cheese.

(laughter)

SAM: "Those are all the foods I know."

TRAVIS: Chop chop!

MATT: The servants all stop and go, (sighs). "Yes,
Grand Poobah."

(laughter)

MATT: Throw out what they were finishing and begin
to make eggs, getting the cheese ready, and all

the hearty pork meats. And the peanut butter.

MARISHA: It's a Charlie Brown Thanksgiving.

LAURA: Spaghetti-Os.

MARISHA: Popcorn.

ASHLEY: Just great. I run over to Percy really
quickly. (whispering) Percy?

TALIESIN: Yes?

ASHLEY: I just wanted to... apologize in advance
for whatever may happen in the next few days.

TALIESIN: I'm so excited for the calamity that's
about to be brought down upon my house.

ASHLEY: Okay.

TALIESIN: There is nothing, short of full dragon
apocalypse at this point, that could faze us. We

can live through this. We'll be fine.

ASHLEY: Okay.

LAURA: I come up and I give her a hug from behind
and say:

We will never judge you for your blood, dear.

ASHLEY: Okay. Again, I'm not embarrassed.

LAURA: Of course not. They're great. They seem
wonderful.

ASHLEY: Yeah. Yeah, they do.

TALIESIN: To be fair, I've also already started
drinking.

ASHLEY: Oh great. Okay, I'll join you.

TALIESIN: I pull out the flask of Courage that
I've brought.

SAM: Flask of Courage?

LAURA: You got more Courage?

TALIESIN: Oh, there's a lot of Courage. We make it
every year.

ASHLEY: I take a big gulp. All the gulps.

MATT: It burns. It burns so good.

ASHLEY: (grunts)

TALIESIN: It burns a lot.

ASHLEY: It does.

TALIESIN: You're going to get drunk, but you're
not going to get sleepy.

LAURA: Oh, that's going to feel good in this
area.

TRAVIS: You won't get sleepy.

TALIESIN: Let's do this.

ASHLEY: Let's go eat.

MATT: As you guys all find yourselves ready, the
Trickfoots also begin to fill in to the banquet

hall. The servants provide a fantastic spread of
heartily cooked pork meats, peanut butter fresh

from the jar, piles of cheeses.

LAURA: I thought you asked--

SAM: This is not what I asked for.

ASHLEY: This is comfort food in Whitestone.

TALIESIN: We thought we would give you the
cornucopia of our experience.

LAURA: I take a big spoon of peanut butter.

MATT: Johann gives a curious eye and goes, "Well,
who are we to scoff at the cultures of others?

"Let's dig in, everyone!" And immediately he goes
in. Astra begins eating, as well. JB takes a bite

and then prepares a bite for Uncle Ogden, who is
in the process of staring at the table strangely.

Eventually the spoon finds its way there.

TALIESIN: Well, that's the next 30 minutes.

MATT: As this is happening, Johann begins asking
questions. "So! This is your castle?"

ASHLEY: Is this my castle?

MATT: JB is like, "No, it's not her castle. It's
his castle. She's just staying here, for now."

TALIESIN: Technically, it's my sister's castle,
but certainly.

MATT: At which point, Cassandra comes in from the
back, arms crossed. She wanders in. "Brother?"

TALIESIN: That's code. Yes?

MATT: "Everything all right, brother?"

TALIESIN: Yes, fine.

MATT: "Very well, I'll be in my chambers if you
require anything."

LAURA: You're sure you don't want to join us,
Cass?

MATT: "I'm fine. I'm a bit tired. It's been a long
night. But whoever you are, welcome to

"Whitestone." She looks back to Percival.

TALIESIN: The Trickfoot clan.

MATT: "Ah."

MARISHA: And Keyleth goes--

ASHLEY If she looks over at me, I'm going--

MATT: "I would love to welcome you all to
Whitestone. You are guests of ours if you are

"guests of hers. We'll talk later."

TALIESIN: Absolutely.

MATT: She makes her way back up the stairs. You
watch as Trish, who's her bodyguard on this shift,

follows her up.

LAURA: She's still here? Trish.

ASHLEY: Trish the Dish.

TRAVIS: Trish the Dish.

MATT: She's one of two shift personal guards of
Cassandra.

ASHLEY: I'm going to sit next to Ogden.

MATT: Okay.

ASHLEY: JB, I can feed him for a little bit if
you'd like to look around or something, or talk to

anybody here? Who do you really want to talk to?

MATT: "You. We have so much to catch up on. It's
been a long time."

ASHLEY: Is there someone in Vox Machina that you
really love?

MATT: She looks around. There's this long, awkward
pause as she keeps looking over Vox Machina again

and again, but not making any eye contact with
Grog, and eventually goes,

"I suppose Lady Vex'ahlia." Hands the spoon 
over to you.

ASHLEY: Okay. Well, I'm sure she would love to
talk to you. She's very inviting, very friendly.

MATT: "Should I just go sit?"

ASHLEY: Sure.

MATT: "Okay." She gets up from the table. Johann's
still talking. He's telling stories. "We

"Trickfoots. For generations, we've been
problem-solvers. We rove from place to place,

"solving problems across the countrysides. If you
have a squeaky wheel, we fix the wheel. If you

"have a squeaky door, we fix the door."

TRAVIS: Amazing.

MATT: "If you have a squeaky tax man, we fix the
tax man. That's a joke! That's a joke. You can

"laugh. See, there you are."

TRAVIS: They kill the tax man.

SAM: Everybody hates taxes.

MATT: As this conversation's happening, there's a
small bowl of what looks to be some of the pork,

but it's been soaked in some water or wine, and
it's been mashed or pre-chewed. You're not quite

sure. But you have the spoon there, and you have
Uncle Ogden sitting there going--

ASHLEY: I start speaking to him in Underdark
because I haven't spoken that in a while. Ogden?

How are you liking traveling with everybody? With
Johann and Astra and JB?

MATT: His ear perks up a little bit and he goes,
"I haven't heard that talk in a long time." His

head turns slightly towards you, but he's still
looking off a little bit from under the glasses.

SAM: Is this Undercommon?

ASHLEY: Underdark.

SAM: Underdark?

MATT: It would be considered Undercommon.

ASHLEY: It's Undercommon? Okay.

SAM: I'm listening.

LAURA: I'm reading their lips.

MATT: Do you understand Undercommon? Okay, then
yeah. He looks back and goes, "It's been travel.

"They take care of me. We're here now." His hand
reaches over and grabs your hand and holds it for

a second. He goes, "We're here now to protect
you."

ASHLEY: Protect me from what?

MATT: "From the curse."

ASHLEY: What do you mean?

MATT: "I've been having visions of you. An angel
of light swallowed by dark."

ASHLEY: Okay. Are these just dreams?

MATT: "They come often, and the dreams that come
often generally come to pass. There is a curse in

"our blood, and we wish to save you from that
curse." His fingers tighten a little bit on your

hand. Not in a painful way, but an emphatic hold.
"I'm worried for you. You're the only good one."

His hand releases your hand. He drools a little
bit and wipes it with his hand.

(laughter)

ASHLEY: I take a spoon of peanut butter. It's a
little bit easier. Here you go.

SAM: Like Mr. Ed.

ASHLEY: Yep.

MATT: It dribbles out a little bit. "Unexpected."

ASHLEY: Sorry, the mix between the pork and peanut
butter. It's an interesting mix,

but it's Grog's favorite.

MATT: "It's good."

ASHLEY: It's a good mix!

MATT: You see him smiling now.

ASHLEY: Can you tell me about Astra? How did she
come into the picture?

MATT: "Astra met Johann about ten years ago. He
needed someone to nail him down. Spry, wily, prone

"to terrible choices. He's a stupid boy. Stupid,
stupid boy."

At which point, Johann, who's been talking, stops
and goes, in Undercommon,

"I can hear you, Dad. Anyway!"

"She's good to him. If she breaks his heart, I'll
kill her."

ASHLEY: There you go. And any word from my family?
My mother, anything? It's been a long time since I

talked to them.

MATT: "They absconded east and got in a 
little trouble."

ASHLEY: That makes sense.

MATT: "It's just like my brother to do that. He's
the one who held

"the stupid gene on our generation."

ASHLEY: Yep.

MATT: "I'm tired now."

ASHLEY: Okay.

MATT: At which point, JB, who's been over there
talking with you and asking questions about the

castle and what accommodations there are, sees
Uncle Ogden get up. "Oh, Uncle, I'll help you. I'm

"so sorry, Lady Vex'ahlia." She stands up and walks
around and grabs the elbow.

"Uncle Ogden, are you tired?"

ASHLEY: I can have someone take him, if you'd like
to stay?

MATT: "He's very fragile. If you'd trust anyone to
take him?"

LAURA: I can do it, dear.

ASHLEY: Well. Yeah. You would like to stay with
him?

MATT: "It's what I'm used to, but if Lady
Vex'ahlia--"

LAURA: I would love to. I think your cousin wants
to speak with you.

ASHLEY: Great.

MATT: At which point, as soon as you say that, she
smiles brightly and goes, "Actually, yes."

LAURA: Yes.

ASHLEY: Okay.

LAURA: Be on your guard, dear.

ASHLEY: Okay, I will. Check your pockets.

LAURA: Always.

MATT: She sits down next to you and begins asking
about, "I can't believe that you stepped into the

"same ridiculousness that Wilhand did and it's
brought you all this.

"We just thought he was an old coot."

ASHLEY: Well, he's all I've known and he's
wonderful. He's my family, since I left, and I'm

sorry I haven't really contacted you guys.

MATT: "It's all right. We make ourselves scarce on
purpose."

ASHLEY: Yeah. Well, so you've been taking care of
Ogden?

MATT: "We've been helping out, but mostly me,
yeah."

ASHLEY: Has he told you anything that he dreams
about?

MATT: You can see that she stiffens up a little
bit. "So he's already told you."

ASHLEY: Yes.

MATT: "I don't want to ruin an evening that's
going so well, but he's had visions. I'm worried

"about you. When we got your letter that-- we
didn't know how to find you. We didn't think that

"you were in the area. When your letter found us,
we thought maybe you weren't that far away, so we

"began to search our way along the Silver Cut."

ASHLEY: Okay. Can I insight check her again?

MATT: Yeah, go for it.

ASHLEY: I can't figure out what's going on. Ugh,
balls. Oh, wait. 16?

MATT: She's hard to read, in general. Even when
she was a kid, she was an odd duck. She seems

genuine.

ASHLEY: Okay. Well, how's everybody feeling? Are
you tired? Are you full? Is it bedtime? What's

going on?

SAM: I could talk to these people all night long.

ASHLEY: Well.

SAM: But if we should turn in?

MATT: You see Astra, who's been drinking deep of
one of the two fine bottles of red wine, is

drunkenly leaning with her arm around Johann's
arm. He's a little tipsy, but he's still in

conversation, talking to Grog. He's telling
embarrassing story after embarrassing story, and

since you're so eager and no one else really wants
to pay him as much mind. He's talking to the

table, but he's mainly focusing on you.

TRAVIS: Yeah.

MATT: As you begin helping Ogden, who, as you grab
his arm, he's shaking, and he has his cane as he

moves along. His skin is very loose.

LAURA: Ogden, would you like me to help carry you,
or are you all right to walk?

MATT: "I can walk under my own power."

LAURA: Of course you can. Feel free to lean on me,
though.

MATT: "At the stairs."

LAURA: All right.

MATT: He's still looking off. As soon as you get
to the stairs, he gets about two steps and has to

stop and breathe, and another two stairs.

LAURA: I put my arm down so he can put as much
weight as he wants.

MATT: He leans into it and you eventually help him
up the staircase that spirals up to the second

floor and eventually lead him to his chambers.

LAURA: All right, and I start talking to him on
the way to his room in Undercommon. And ask him:

How long have you guys been on the road?

MATT: "Always."

LAURA: Always?

MATT: "By nature, we don't really put down roots."
Big old smile as he says roots, darkened, some

broken teeth. Heinous smell.

LAURA: Peanut butter and pork.

MATT: Yep.

LAURA: I couldn't help but overhear you talking to
Pike about dreams you've been having.

MATT: "Yes. Dreams."

LAURA: What kind of dreams?

MATT: "Terrible premonitions."

LAURA: Like what?

MATT: At this point, he stops and looks up towards
you as you're holding his arm, and he reaches up

and pulls the glasses shakily from the front of
his face and through his small dark brown beady

eyes, you see the whites at the sides are
bloodshot. He glances up and goes,

"The kinds of dreams that end a bloodline."

LAURA: Well, that sounds terrible.

MATT: "We're trying to find a way to stop it."

LAURA: Well, that's good. I would like to stop it,
as well. We all love Pike very much.

MATT: "Good. Then we came at the right time."

LAURA: Can I insight check him?

MATT: Go for it.

LAURA: That was almost. 21? 21.

SAM: Whispers!

LAURA: Yes!

SAM: So, Taliesin, what's the V? What's the V on
this shirt?

TALIESIN: The V on this shirt?

LIAM: It's a book.

TALIESIN: That looks to be a tome of some sort.

SAM: Who is represented by a book?

LIAM: The whole top row is reserved for Matthew.

SAM: Oh, okay. And what's the M in Machina?

TALIESIN: It appears to be some sort of very
naturalistic bow and arrow.

SAM: Who would that correspond to?

TALIESIN: Scanlan, I imagine.

SAM: Oh, yeah. That makes sense. And the A?

TALIESIN: The A appears to be a bird's mask and a
pistol.

SAM: Also Scanlan.

TALIESIN: Also Scanlan.

SAM: Yeah, sure. And the C?

TALIESIN: The C is some sort of natural wooden
crest of some kind.

LIAM: That's Grog taint.

SAM: Oh.

TALIESIN: In fact, this is entirely Grog and
Scanlan, which I think, it's about time.

LAURA: Well, Ogden. Are you all right getting into
your bed? Do you need any help with that?

MATT: "If you can get me to the edge of it, I can
manage."

LAURA: Well, of course. I hope you know that we're
here for you, with whatever you need, as long as

we're all here to help Pike. We love her like
family, as well.

MATT: "Good. She can use some family."

LAURA: Yes. Dark tidings.

MATT: "Dark tidings, indeed."

LAURA: Are we talking like falling into a pit or
are we talking like-- I'm going to walk him to the

bed and maybe like--

MATT: (raspy grunt) He gets up and leans the stick
off to the side, and it (thudding noise)

onto the ground.

LAURA: I'll crouch down and start untying his
little boots.

MATT: "That's all right. I can get that."

LAURA: I don't mind.

MATT: He leans back and lets you do it.

LAURA: What kind of dark things are we talking?

MATT: "There's a legend in the Trickfoots. Every
generation, one is born with the blood curse. One

"that carries with it the anger of someone slighted
when we first became Trickfoots. Maybe it's

"superstition, but every one of these individuals
died a horrible, painful death, screaming of a

"shadow that came for them. It's a myth, I know,
but these dreams are real, and I'd rather be

"careful and wrong than careless and right."

LAURA: Do you see the shadow in your dreams?

MATT: "Shapeless. Dark. Eyes like burning coals."

LAURA: Does that sound like the smoke demon that
we saw come out of Percy? Anything like that?

MATT: Shapeless, black shadow with red eyes sounds
similar, but Orthax was generally black smoke. Had

form, and the eyes were more of a yellow.

TALIESIN: The John Doe of demons, really.

LAURA: All right. How long have you been having
these dreams?

MATT: "Months."

LAURA: Have you ever witnessed it happen before?
Have you had the dreams about anyone else?

MATT: "Only once. I was very young."

LAURA: And they died.

MATT: "My brother."

LAURA: Really?

MATT: Theobold.

LAURA: And do you know who it is the Trickfoots
slighted in this myth?

MATT: "I don't know. This whole family is paranoid
and guards their secrets from each other.

"Anyway."

LAURA: I wish you a dreamless sleep. And he's
out.

(laughter)

LIAM: Random question. Do we see an obvious family
resemblance with Pike and any of them?

MATT: Make a perception check.

SAM: They all have a giant birthmark on their
face.

(laughter)

LIAM: 24.

MATT: As you've been paying attention to them most
of dinner. Mannerisms, everything. There are some

similarities.

LIAM: Facial features, I mean.

MATT: Yeah. They're not direct family. They're
cousins, uncle-- they're once removed from her

central nuclear family. But you do see
similarities in cheekbone structure, at least with

Johann, Ogden, and JB. Moreso with JB. It's hard
with the mustache with Johann. But there are some

similarities between JB and Pike, and you can't
help but envision these two cute little gnome

children playing together. These two dark-haired
female gnomes running around, and there may have

been an age when they could have been hard to tell
apart from each other.

LAURA: Ooh.

SAM: Swapped at birth?

LAURA: I know, right?

MARISHA: Freaky Friday!

ASHLEY: Oh man. Okay.

MATT: As Johann picks up Astra. "Anyway, it's been
a fantastic meal. I appreciate your hospitality,

"and I look forward to this grand tour you promised
tomorrow."

TRAVIS: Oh, yeah. Anything you want to see, as
long as you've got more of those stories.

MATT: "Oh, I've got loads."

TALIESIN: I'm going to sneak next to JB really
quickly.

MATT: Okay.

TALIESIN: If you want a more proper and private
tour of the city, consider the offer open. Just

think about where you'd want to start. The offer
does stand, though. Have a good evening.

MATT: As you say this to her, she glances back and
says, "Very well. Under the needs of being

"upfront, as well, I want you to know that I'm not
interested."

(laughter)

TRAVIS: Thank you. That's what it totally sounded
like.

LAURA: It did sound like you were fucking
flirting.

TRAVIS: You want a proper tour of deez nuts?

(laughter)

TALIESIN: I don't think he's figured out what
she's talking about.

MATT: I don't think he has, either, no.

TALIESIN: Oh. I'm sorry, I thought that maybe
you'd want to see the-- and the-- oh.

Very well, then.

MATT: She looks over at Grog and goes, "Perhaps a
tour is in order, but just no.

"I'm not interested."

TALIESIN: In the tour?

MATT: "In the tour, yes."

TALIESIN: Oh! Yeah. I mean, no. Yes. No.

(laughter)

LIAM: Smooth as butter.

MATT: She gets up and walks away. "Good night,
everyone. Good night, Pike."

TALIESIN: How did she do that?

MATT: Eventually, all the gnomes have left and
you're all there, dumbfounded,

at the dinner table.

LAURA: I come back down.

ASHLEY: Check your pockets! Check your pockets.

LAURA: I had no valuables on me at all.

SAM: I have everything that I own on me. Am I
missing anything?

LAURA: I check my hair to make sure my brooch is
still in it.

MARISHA: I check my pouch and make sure my antlers
are still there.

MATT: You guys scan through, pat yourselves down.
Everything's in place.

SAM: I think they're lovely.

MARISHA: And I liked seeing you being bested.
Regardless of the people, it's still fun seeing

you being bested.

TALIESIN: Cheap shot, at best.

LIAM: You are very different from them.

ASHLEY: Yes.

LIAM: They are quirky.

LAURA: I mean, you're quirky.

ASHLEY: Yeah, but I mean, I haven't seen them in a
very long time. Since I was but a kid.

LIAM: Why did Pom-Pom take you out of there?

ASHLEY: Well, because he was different and had a
different life plan and because he became a cleric

and was the first of-- I don't know how far
back. I don't even know.

LIAM: And older than all of them.

ASHLEY: Yeah. And he saw that I was and decided--
we left. He took me when I was little, and we

left. There was a lot that happened, but I didn't
know where they were because they travel.

LIAM: They just got here, but what's your feel on
this?

ASHLEY: I don't know. I heard some things with
some discussions I had tonight, and I need to

figure out if they're true or not. We'll figure
out in the next few days,

just to see what's going on.

SAM: This dream that the old one talked about,
does that worry you?

ASHLEY: How do you know about that?

LIAM: You don't know that.

LAURA: He does. He was listening in.

LIAM: Oh, that's right.

LAURA: I actually talked to him a little bit about
that, as well.

ASHLEY: You did?

LAURA: Yeah.

TALIESIN: A dream? What dream?

ASHLEY: What did he say?

LAURA: He said that there was a thing in your
family. A blood curse. He seemed honest enough

when he was saying it. Said that people paid the
price for a slight someone made a long time ago,

and certain members of your family are cursed, and
he's had these premonitions, these dreams, before.

It was his brother who passed away a long time
ago.

ASHLEY: Yes, this is a thing.

LAURA: Have you heard about this?

MATT: You haven't because you haven't been with
most of the Trickfoots for most of your life.

ASHLEY: Okay.

MATT: You've been with Wilhand since you were very
young. You said six. He's not been eager to talk

about the family. You can see he resents the
Trickfoot clan, so you haven't heard of this,

but you also know very little about them.

LAURA: Wilhand never discussed it with you?

MARISHA: No premonitions of a curse from Wilhand?

ASHLEY: He didn't talk about the family. He wanted
to be separate from them and he didn't want me to

be influenced by them at all.

MARISHA: Hang on. I don't mean to question
everything, but Wilhand defected from the whole

family and became a cleric, but he never mentioned
anything of a curse? Why did he become a cleric?

TALIESIN: I see your reasoning.

MARISHA: That seems like a dichotomy there.

TALIESIN: It actually makes perfect sense to me.

TRAVIS: He likes helping people.

MARISHA: Or he's terrified of some superstitious
curse. Maybe both?

ASHLEY: Maybe both.

LIAM: We trust you, and Wilhand raised you, so
Wilhand must have his head screwed on straight.

TALIESIN: I'm going to say you're in a room of
people who were raised by-- at least 60 percent of

the time, ridiculous people who have their head
screwed on straight.

MARISHA: That's accurate.

LAURA: Maybe we should ask him about it?

LIAM: That's where I was going. Is there any merit
in trying to get a hold of Wilhand right now, while

they're here?

ASHLEY: Can we, from here?

MATT: He's in Westruun right now. It is also late
in the evening.

MARISHA: I can get us anywhere very quickly.

SAM: Tomorrow we should go visit him?

LAURA: Yeah.

LIAM: Yeah. I don't think they're going to burn
down the castle.

LAURA: Maybe while they're taking a tour, we bamf
to Westruun for just a minute.

TALIESIN: I don't necessarily know if-- do you
want to bamf, or do you just want to talk? We can

probably just talk to him, or maybe we could have
him sent for.

LIAM: Do you remember our conversations with
Wilhand when we were in Westruun?

TALIESIN: Yeah.

LIAM: They were a little squirrely.

TALIESIN: I'm a little worried about leaving them
here unattended.

LAURA: Some of us can stay.

MARISHA: I think it would be a half-and-half
situation.

LAURA: Split the party!

ALL: Split the party!

ASHLEY: We could. As you guys know, Wilhand is a
little-- he's in his older years.

LAURA: We'll try to keep it quick.

ASHLEY: But we could try to keep it quick.

LAURA: In and out, ask him a few questions.

MARISHA: And Wilhand is the brother of Ogden?

LAURA: No.

LIAM: No, he's older than that.

MATT: Yeah, Wilhand is older than Ogden.

MARISHA: Wilhand's older than Ogden?!

ASHLEY: Wilhand's older than Ogden.

MARISHA: I thought Ogden was as old as life
itself!

TRAVIS: No, Ogden did a lot of drugs when he was
younger.

LAURA: Ogden's had a hard life.

SAM: He's got to be at least 150 or 200 years
old.

MATT: Ogden looks like he's older, but his
physicality is not based on age as much as it's

based on--

MARISHA: He had a Mick Jagger lifestyle.

MATT: Something akin to that, I guess you'd say.

MARISHA: All right.

TALIESIN: Or at least a Tom Waits one.

MATT: Yeah.

ASHLEY: Let's circle back tomorrow.

MARISHA: All right.

ASHLEY: And while they're doing the tour, maybe we
can pop over real quick and I think that would be

better than him seeing them here.

LIAM: Even as an outsider, that seems a little
ugh.

ASHLEY: Yeah.

TALIESIN: Grog, you'll take the loud ones tomorrow
and I'll take the quiet ones?

TRAVIS: Wait, what? I thought I get them all.

TALIESIN: Do you want to get them all?

TRAVIS: Yeah, don't they want all to be on my
tour?

LAURA: Maybe you could do the tour together?

MARISHA: Maybe you could do a Grog tour and then a
Percy tour.

LIAM: Or you could assist Grog.

TALIESIN: Because you asked so nicely. Also, I was
thinking the carpet might be a fine way of moving

them around the city.

LAURA: Oh! That is actually a wonderful idea.

ASHLEY: They would be pretty fascinated by that.

LAURA: Quite distracted.

LIAM: You know, the Grand Poobah needs an
assistant.

TRAVIS: Oh. Perhaps.

LIAM: It's only befitting of your station that
Percival aid you in such a fashion.

TRAVIS: Yes. Quite.

MARISHA: The two masters of the city. Of course.

TRAVIS: My history of the city is unrivaled.

TALIESIN: I will definitely agree that there are
sections of this city I would absolutely agree

that you are the master of, at this point.

TRAVIS: Thank you.

(laughter)

TALIESIN: (sighs) It's going to be a lot of
brothels and bars.

MARISHA: "And this was my first hook-up, and this
was the scene of my second hook-up."

TRAVIS: Yeah. This is a big tree.

MATT: I'm excited for this.

TALIESIN: I am so excited for this.

MATT: So, as you all eventually find yourselves
resting for the evening, contemplating the plans

to take first thing in the morning, we'll go ahead
and close tonight's episode there. We'll pick this

up next week.

LAURA: Wait, you're not going to be here next
week?

ASHLEY: I will. I'll just be a little late.

MARISHA: Sprinting from the airport.

ASHLEY: Yeah.

LAURA: Cool.

TALIESIN: We'll do the tour first, while you guys
are off freaking out with the--

MARISHA: Bamfing?

TALIESIN: Yeah.

MATT: We'll stall if we need to. We'll make it
happen. All righty, guys. Well, thank you so much

for watching tonight. I hope you enjoyed it as
much as we did.

MARISHA: We're all a year older now!

LAURA: Oh my gosh.

MARISHA: We're older!

TRAVIS: Grog is 14.

MATT: We'll be back here next Thursday, 7PM Pacific,
as usual. Until then, have a wonderful weekend and

is it Thursday yet? Good night, guys.

MARISHA: Go buy t-shirts!

[music]