MATT: Hello, everyone, and welcome to tonight's
episode of Critical Role, where a bunch of us

nerdy-ass voice actors sit around and play
Dungeons and Dragons, or are a little late on the

draw when shouting the phrase out, Travis
Willingham. (laughs) Anyway, before we get into

tonight's episode, let's go ahead and jump into
our announcements. Let's see here, we've got a new

game called Injustice 2 that just came out.

TRAVIS and ASHLEY: Yeah!

LAURA: Wait a minute. What is this Injustice 2 you
speak of?

TRAVIS: Is that the shapes and pie-making game
that you play in the kitchen bakery?

MARISHA: It's like Cooking Mama.

LAURA: I watched a video today of you and you
fighting, which was pretty exciting.

MATT: Yeah, we have all the Flashes covered, I
think.

TALIESIN: All of the Flashes are on this show.

LAURA: That's crazy.

MATT: So who do you guys play?

TALIESIN: I play Barry Allen.

LIAM: I play Reverse-Flash. What's his name?

TALIESIN: Eobard Thawne.

LIAM: Right.

LAURA: I play Supergirl!

TRAVIS: I play Tim Garrick.

TALIESIN: Jay Garrick.

TRAVIS: Jay Garrick. I wear a tin pail for a
helmet.

MATT: It's pretty slick.

TRAVIS: The one Flash I don't know, really.

MATT: Next Halloween, man. Just saying. I'd love a
picture of you wearing that hat.

TALIESIN: Oh my god!

ASHLEY: Yes, please.

MATT: Please. It'll be great. And I play Deadshot.
Yeah, check it out, it looks really good. They had

us all do really intense facial motion capture
which is even funnier, considering that my

character wears a mask the whole time.

TRAVIS: Did they really make you do that?

MATT and TALIESIN: Yeah.

TRAVIS: With a mask?

MATT: Well, not with a mask on my face, but yeah.

TALIESIN: That would've been even better.

MATT: I assume there'll be a DLC costume where he
doesn't have a mask, or they just did it to fuck

with me, which I respect either way.

TRAVIS: They're in the booth, going (whispers)
we're not getting any of this!

TALIESIN: Don't tell him! Let it roll.

TRAVIS: Just draw a dick-butt on his forehead;
it's fine.

LAURA: Those bright lights are headache-inducing,
yeah.

MATT: So check it out. It's out now, it's fun!
What I've seen of it looks actually really cool.

TALIESIN: I've played a little; it's fun.

MATT: They got their RPG in my fighting game,
and that's right up my alley. All right, also,

because it's coming up real fast, reminder,
MomoCon, May 25th to the 28th. MoMocon! Taliesin,

Marisha, myself, and Brian W. Foster are going to
be there for a Talks Machina panel, as well as

other events throughout the weekend, so look
forward to seeing you there in Atlanta, Georgia,

weekend after this one. Also, I will be at A-Kon
once again, June 8th to the 11th in Fort Worth,

Texas. Come say hello to me there. And then,
remember that Talks Machina is live on Tuesdays at

7PM Pacific Time here on Twitch and Alpha. The
submission email has changed, so to submit your

gif and/or fanart of the week, use
submit@talksmachina.com. So that is submit,

submit! One submit, not two, that's just my
psychosis. Submit@talksmachina.com. Yes. Anything

else anyone wants to talk about, are we good? Move
on to the game for the night.

LAURA: Oh! Farpoint came out. So if you have
PlayStation Virtual Reality System, then you can

get Farpoint, and I play Dr. Eva Tyson on it, and
it's actually a really freaking cool game.

TRAVIS: It's fun, you shoot things with a gun. Do
you have to get the gun for it?

LAURA: You shoot things with a gun, and it was a
really cool script and stuff.

I liked the story a lot.

LIAM: That's not how guns work.

TALIESIN and MARISHA: Are we talking about next
week?

MATT: Oh, yeah, we should say that, too.

MARISHA: That's a big one.

MATT: That wasn't on the list. So yeah. So we're
missing two cast members next week.

TRAVIS: Guess who's not here.

MATT: What? That's terrible.

ASHLEY: Hey!

MATT: But given the circumstance, instead, we're
going to have a non-numbered episode next week,

instead it looks like we're going to throw in for
a new, higher-level battle royale for those who

will be here to see how some of these high-level
abilities function.

MARISHA: You won't be there to put my face in lava
this time! I'll just have myself to do that.

ASHLEY: I know, you guys, I won't be there, so.

TRAVIS: Will Friedle won the first one, she won
the last one.

LAURA: I've never done it.

SAM: I've never done it, either.

LAURA: Oh no. And you're doing it as Tary?

MATT: It's up to you; you get to choose.

MARISHA: Are you going to bring back Scanlan?

SAM: All right, Taryon's going to die in like five
seconds.

(laughter)

TALIESIN: So if we loot Tary's body, do we get all
of his stuff?

MATT: It's not in canon.

TALIESIN: No, even not in canon, in the game.

MATT: Oh, if you go to his body after he's dead,
you can grab any of his shit to use it.

TALIESIN: You are a loot drop, oh my god.

MATT: As long as it's not attunement, you can use
it.

LAURA: Is the helmet attuned? It is, isn't it?

MATT: I believe it is, yes.

SAM: Probably, yeah.

LAURA: Too bad. But we can just steal all of his
jewels just for the sake of it.

MATT: There you go. In the alternate universe
version, you are just decked out.

SAM: Do I get Doty in the fight?

MATT: Yeah.

SAM: Okay. That helps.

MATT: And you'll be leveled up to their level.

SAM: And I'll be leveled up to their level?

MATT: For the battle royale, yeah.

TALIESIN: Yeah, we level up for that.

MATT: Anyway, that'll be next week. That pushes
our hundredth episode to June 8th. And it looks

like we're confirmed for June 1st for our next
guest, I believe.

SAM: Yes. Yes, we are. We are confirmed for that.
Are we announcing that?

MATT: Yeah, sure. Yeah.

SAM: Oh, well, yeah, on June 1st, our next guest,
Jon Heder AKA Napoleon Dynamite, is going to come

play with us and roll some dice. Yeah.

MARISHA: My mother has never been so proud of me.

LAURA: So, did we already say that because next
week is a battle royale,

that means our hundredth episode--

MATT: Is pushed to the 8th, yes.

LAURA: Okay, you already said that? Was I busy
rolling dice and talking?

MATT: You were. But thank you, Laura. Good looking
out. I appreciate that. So yeah, I think that's

all the major news, and given that, let's go ahead
and dive in to

tonight's episode of Critical Role.

[dramatic music]

MATT: Hello and welcome back, everybody. So last
time where we left off, Vox Machina, upon working

on their bakery, the Slayer's Cake in Whitestone,
made a possible new hire who turned out to be a

drow bounty hunter named K'rynn, who was sent here
to acquire Taryon Darrington and bring him back

home to the city of Deastok In Wildmount. You guys
all, through a series of high-level magic scrying

and transportation, managed to cut off this
specific bounty hunter on the outskirts of the

city, and in doing so made an agreement to not
slay her where she stood, and instead possibly

make a transaction down the road. You guys then
made your way into the city of Deastok to the

Darrington Estate and were led up into the study
of Howaardt Darrington, father of Taryon, in which

you all discussed the reasons of why he was
brought back, the current financial state of the

family, and the intent to resolve and remedy
long-standing sins of the father, through you

standing up and doing your family duty, from his
perspective. We left off as you guys had just

finished that conversation. You've exited his study
and were about to go about your business. Coming

off the tension of the conversation, you closed
behind you with a clack the heavy wooden doors of

Howaardt's study. There you have Bertholt, who's
standing off to the side, the dragonborn servant

of the Darrington family, waiting patiently, and you
all at this moment are at your own disposal. What

do you wish to do?

SAM: Just before we move: the names that Dad had
told us about to maybe parlay with in the Myriad?

LAURA: Korshad.

SAM: Korshad?

MATT: Korshad, yes.

TRAVIS: And how much was the debt? It was
260,000?

SAM: 230,000!

MATT: 230,000 gold debt.

SAM: But wait, wasn't there some other name, the
little--

TRAVIS: Lydia!

MATT: Lydia was who you are to be betrothed to,
and the location was the Grumpy Lily.

MARISHA: I was questioning myself, I was like
there was no way something

was called the Grumpy Lily.

MATT: Had a stroke while taking notes in D&D.
Grumpy Lily!

LAURA: The Many is who we want to speak to.

TALIESIN: Just as something that happened, during
that whole family conversation I was scanning the

room and the bookshelves for anything interesting,
anything out of sorts, anything out of place.

MATT: Make a retroactive perception check.

SAM: A retroactive perception check!

TALIESIN: I didn't want to-- yeah, I didn't see
shit. I just rolled a three; that's nothing.

MATT: Rightly so!

SAM: Retrograde! You know they always say that
retrograde perception is 20/20?

MATT: What?

TALIESIN: I appreciate what you were going for
there.

SAM: Anyway, I would love to ask Bertholt if he
knows the location of my sister.

MATT: "Well, if you are looking for Maryanne,
she's probably in her chambers."

SAM: All right, well, I mean I guess we can all
walk to her room and knock on the door. It's a

little weird, right?

LIAM: You want to go talk to her and touch base
with her first?

You can introduce us to her after.

SAM: Sure. I'll lead them back downstairs to that
main room that was all awful and terrible, right?

MATT: Well, it was just dark and cold and empty.

SAM: So I'll lead them down there. This was our
playroom, maybe you should just wait here and I'll

go talk to sis. I'll be right back.

LAURA: All right.

TRAVIS: Is there like furniture to sit on, or is
it barren?

MATT: No, no. There's furniture, and a lot of the
furniture here is really well made, dark woods,

fine deep red and maroon fabrics. A lot of it has
dust on it.

TALIESIN: Plastic covers? No plastic covers?

MATT: No plastic covers. But some of the
furniture here is for use and some of it is here just

as part of the decor, and it's very easy to see
which ones are which.

LAURA: I'm definitely going to sit on the ones
that are just for decor.

MATT: Okay, they're really uncomfortable.

LAURA: Cool. Going to rub my butt all over it.

MATT: You leave a little butt-print in the dust.
Perfect. At which point, Bertholt acknowledges

that you guys will be staying. "Could I get
anything for you? Perhaps teas, juice, water?"

TRAVIS: What is this bullshit, no ale?

LAURA: Do you have fermented juice?

MATT: "I'll fetch the wine." And he hobbles off to
acquire some means of imbibement.

TRAVIS: Should we pay him? We just found out he's
dead fucking broke.

LAURA: I'd rather not.

TRAVIS: Okay.

(laughter)

MATT: Okay. You make your way back to the second
floor and off to the far western end of the

estate, to what you recall being Maryanne's
chambers. So as you enter her room, which has

become her own study, as you recall last time
seeing her, her room was becoming more and more of a

functional office, and as you knock and push the
door open like a familiar brother does, not

wishing for any patience on her end, necessarily,
you can see the interiors. The bed's there for function.

Most if it is, I wouldn't say a replica, but it very
much resembles the decor and mood of your father's

study. You see her currently sitting at a desk in
the corner. Her blonde hair is tied back in a

tied braid that runs down her back. She wears a
coat and pants and seems to be dressed a little

formally or businesslike for being casually at
home. You haven't really seen her dress like this

before, at least not in a casual circumstance. As
you glance over past the doorway she looks up from

her papers and goes, "Brother!"

SAM: Hello, sister.

MATT: "Brother, what--" She closes the book. You
can see she's been looking over ledgers and

catalogues. Looks like she's been doing a fair
amount of work here at the desk and stands up in a

very formal way and begins to step towards you.
"When have you arrived?"

SAM: Just today. Father kidnapped me and brought
me home.

MATT: "Kidnapped?"

SAM: Well, I'm not a kid, but still works.
Abducted. Abducted me and brought me home. Paid

someone to do it.

MATT: "Right."

SAM: Yes. Anyway, it's good to see you. Your room
is coming along quite nicely. It seems like you're

running the show now, is that true?

MATT: "No, not quite, but the responsibilities
have definitely been mounting. You look well. How

"have the wind-tossed roads of Exandria
treated you this past year?"

SAM: Well, I have had many adventures and close
calls, but I won't bore you with those details.

It's been an interesting year abroad, and I would
say I'm glad to be back, but for the abduction

part and also the fact that I've now learned 
that we are destitute? Is that true?

MATT: "We're on the path to destitution, yes."

SAM: So it's true; he wasn't just trying to guilt
me.

MATT: "Probably both, to be honest. We're in a
relatively dire situation compared to our previous

"long-standing lifestyle choices. We're trying to
fix this mess."

SAM: And what would have been your plan had I not
arrived today?

MATT: "Well, you were part of the plan. We're
trying to figure this out the best we can and

"given the circumstances, we feel this is probably
one of the most viable and least dangerous or risky

"endeavors in which we can right the family's
trajectory."

SAM: By marrying me to some lady I've never met?

MATT: "Oh, you're welcome to meet her. I've met
her. I helped to arrange this."

SAM: What is she like?

MATT: "She's very nice. She's very pretty, a bit
bookish, which once again would befit you rather

"well, but let's be honest. This is a
political marriage. You do what you want. I mean,

"there isn't a politician or a lord of this land
that hasn't in some way, shape, or form made their

"own life outside of the family." At that point,
you noticed she gets a bit dark and seems to speak

with this bit of sarcasm.

SAM: And father's businesses, are they being run
the same way? With the same attention to detail?

MATT: "There's been no necessary change to the way
business has been done. Other than the transition

"of some responsibilities, of course." And she
gives a slight nod. She's getting a little

uncomfortable as this conversation continues.

SAM: Listen, I'm sorry to pop in like this and
challenge your judgment, but me marrying this

person would solve our problems long-term?
Somehow?

MATT: "Marrying into this family, the Truscan lot,
would enable us the resources and connections to

"reacquire the deeds to our land, to reacquire the
business elements that we've been in this

"unnecessary partnership with for some time, and
would enable us to once again reclaim complete

"rulership of our family-controlled lands."

SAM: Do we not own anything anymore?

MATT: "It is a partnership that is quickly
sliding into the behest of the Myriad."

SAM: So what is ours now? Anything? Our personal
belongings? This home?

MATT: "We still own everything, in partnership.
Own solely on our own? Some of the furniture."

SAM: And again, if I do this, what's to say we're
not just going to drive up another debt again?

Doesn't seem like father or you have been very
good at keeping us in the black.

MATT: "I have only been recently brought into this
unfortunate circumstance, brother. And you can

"trust in knowing that in my studies and my time
spent here, working with father, being very clear,

"and very thorough with the mistakes he's made
in the past,

"I will not be doomed to repeat them."

SAM: So you and he are two peas in a pod, yes?

MATT: "Well, he's certainly in need of retiring
based on the stress he's put upon himself. It would

"not be long until I will take over the
responsibilities."

SAM: Well, I may poke around and see if there's
another way I could help. But before I do, is this

fun for you? Do you like running this business, or
almost running it?

MATT: "It's certainly a better challenge than many
other daughters of lords

"are given in their time."

SAM: Do you have any friends?

MATT: "Friends come, when the money and power's
in place. You know this."

SAM: I do.

MATT: "It's the way the land works."

SAM: Well, I'll leave you to your work, and-- love
the decorations. I'm considering the offer and

I'll have an answer for you by tomorrow morning.

MATT: "Wonderful." As you begin to make any sort
of exit, she catches you and goes, "Brother,

"your arrival here is a great boon to us. You have
the power to change the fate of this family.

"Consider the respect you have for the people who
have worked their entire lives to provide for you

"what you have been given. Mother and Father 
sacrificed so much for us. Consider weighing one's

"selfish interest versus the importance of a
bloodline. That is all I ask."

SAM: All right. I'll consider it. With all my
intellect.

MATT: "Well, it's good to see you." She steps
forward and gives you a half-hug.

It's like--

SAM: A pat. The back pat. Good day.

MATT: "Good day." She straightens her coat and 
sits back behind her desk

and waits for you to leave.

SAM: All right. I'll shimmy out. (sighs) All
right, I'll rejoin my friends downstairs. Well--

LAURA: How did it go?

LIAM: Well, yourself.

SAM: As expected. Things are about the same
between me and Maryanne.

LAURA: Is she still a raging bitch?

SAM: No, she's not raging.

ASHLEY: I just think it's rather rude that she
doesn't want to come down here and meet us.

SAM: She has her work and her--

LIAM: Oh, she's not coming down?

SAM: No.

LIAM: That's weird.

SAM: I mean, I don't know, she's busy. I guess.

LIAM: Okay.

SAM: They're not guest people. They're not dinner
party family.

LIAM: We picked up on that.

LAURA: Not even for people who could help them with
their name?

MARISHA: Did you mention us or anything else?

SAM: Nope. It didn't come up.

LIAM: Did they have any idea what a heavy hitter
you are now? The type of people you roll with?

SAM: They said, how have I been? But they don't
really give a shit either way.

MARISHA: So you didn't even offer up the
information?

SAM: If they are not interested in me, why should
I be interested in them knowing about me?

LAURA: That's a very good point.

LIAM: Let's back it up. What are you thinking?
Where's your head at? How can we help you?

SAM: I don't know what to do. There's this woman;
she's apparently nice and I could go for it and

marry her, and then it seems like all my family
problems would be okay.

ASHLEY: Forever?

MARISHA: There's no such thing as family problems
being okay for forever.

TRAVIS: Really?

SAM: I don't know. I'm sort of curious about talking
to the people who are in this contract with my

father and seeing if there's any way to wiggle out
of it a little bit, but I don't know how to solve

everything right now. I also don't know-- I feel a
duty, a responsibility to this family, because

they are my family.

MARISHA: Grog!

TRAVIS: You feel a doodie? The privy is over there!
Or over there! Or the front yard beckons.

TALIESIN: He may have opened a bottle of wine.

TRAVIS: I'm lost for the rest of this
conversation.

LAURA: No, we're not drunk, we may have just had a 
little bit of wine, just a small amount.

TRAVIS: I carved my name into the floor.

SAM: Part of me wants to-- oh god. Part of me
wants to turn around and go back with you to

Whitestone and forget that the Darringtons exist,
but I don't think I can't do that. I am a

Darrington and I owe it at least to my name to
try and fix what I can.

LAURA: That's your plan?

SAM: Yes.

LAURA: Don't sacrifice your entire life
for this, though.

SAM: Well, I'll try not to, but it seems like a
plan B at this point.

LIAM: Also, you had no prior knowledge to your
family's connection to the mob?

SAM: No? It's way cooler than I thought my family
ever was. I knew my dad did shady business with

lots of shady characters but I never knew-- I
assumed he paid off people. I assumed he had

friends in high places and people who you'd have
to bribe to turn the other cheek, but I never knew

that he was in business with them, owing our whole
existence to these terrible people, and I don't

know what to make of that

LIAM: T, I think we're all prepared to help you do
anything you want to do, but are you sure you want

to help perpetuate the family business?

SAM: Definitely not. Listen, I think there's two
steps to this: there's the short term and the long

term. We have to solve this short-term need really
quickly. Not this whole 230,000-dollar-- I mean

-gold debt. It's a Whitestone term, I mean a
Wildmount. Oh my god. My phone rang! I'm confused!

Anyway, listen, couple drinks before-- no. We
have a short-term problem that we can maybe go

alleviate a bit if we go talk to these folk at the
Laughing Ninny or whatever it's called.

The Grumpy Lily.

LIAM: I like the Laughing Ninny. I kinda want to go
there instead.

TALIESIN: It's a stand-up comedy club.

(laughter)

SAM: And then there's a long-term problem which
I'll have to solve on another day. There's a long-

term problem that my family is awful and needs to
be stopped at all costs, and that's something that

I'll have to deal with tomorrow.

LAURA: Do the Truscans, that's who you are being
married into potentially, do they have a son?

TALIESIN: That doesn't help! That's almost beside
the point!

SAM: You're talking about marrying the sister?
Yeah.

TALIESIN: Oh, that's still--

LAURA: I guess it's not the same, is it?

TALIESIN: No! Actually, it's unfortunately
the opposite.

SAM: You're royalty. You know this!

LAURA: Of course, I know everything about
royalty.

SAM: Little royal girl.

MARISHA: What exactly is your duty that you are
feeling inclined towards? Damn it, Grog!

TALIESIN: Lilah? Is it Lilah?

ALL: Lydia.

TALIESIN: Perhaps we should talk to this Lydia as
well, because she is obviously in a position of

being told what she is going to do with herself.

MARISHA: Yeah! Maybe she's also a badass!

LIAM: At the very least, we should meet all the chess
pieces on the board, right?

SAM: I mean, she lives in another part of the
kingdom, right, Matthew Mercer?

MARISHA: That's not a problem.

SAM: Oh yes, that's true. But there's the in-town
people we can meet first.

LAURA: Sure. Let's talk to the mob!

SAM: Yes, of course! You'll come with me? Because
I can't talk to the mob by myself.

LAURA: Tary, of course we will!

TRAVIS: Wait, when you said we need to stop your
family at all costs,

are you talking about killing them?

SAM: No, I'm not talking about killing them.

MARISHA: Yeah, but Grog does bring up a point that
I was trying to make before he started laughing

when I said "duty." (giggles) But what, are you
committed to keeping your family around? You said

you were compelled and you felt like you had a duty
but then you immediately started talking about--

TALIESIN: Stop it, Travis! God, I can't--

MARISHA: Tearing your family apart? And stopping
them?

SAM: My family is pretty bad, I've learned. But
I've also learned from young Trickfoot that even a

rotten family is worth trying to save. And I
admire the path that she took with her family, and

I would like to at least try to push mine in the
right direction and try to make our name a little

less shitty.

LIAM: That is a pretty big matzo ball, my friend.

SAM: Well, that's why that's long term. In the
short term, I just want to get them safe.

MARISHA: If there's one thing I understand, it's
giving your life to a cause.

SAM: I don't want to die, if that's what you're
saying.

MARISHA: No.

SAM: Dedicating.

MARISHA: Dedicating.

SAM: Thank you.

MARISHA: Time is a gift, I would say.

SAM: Sure.

MARISHA: So dedicating that gift is, it's a big
thing, but I hope you believe in it.

SAM: I don't believe in them, but I believe in the
cause right now,

and we'll see how far that takes us.

MARISHA: We believe in you.

SAM: You guys.

TRAVIS: Can you describe to me this duty?

MARISHA: You don't care!

TRAVIS: I think I do now. Is it real hard?

SAM: It's a little more nebulous than that, Grog.

TALIESIN: We can pass on this for now.

TRAVIS: Adjectives are not my strong suit, so.

LAURA: You know what an adjective is! That's
impressive.

TRAVIS: Yeah. No, I got it one time at this
tavern. I had it for two nights.

It just itched everywhere.

SAM: Listen. When you see my duty, you'll know.

TRAVIS: Copy that.

LIAM: It's loose. This duty is loose.

LAURA: Should we go to the Grumpy Lily, then?

TALIESIN: Please.

LAURA: This is going so well.

MATT: As you're exiting the house and Berthold's
opening the door, you hear some heavy creaking

from the stair that leads down to the main area,
and you watch as an older woman in her early

fifties or so with her mid-length, curly brown
hair in shades of gray, green eyes behind a small

set of reading spectacles, stoic of face, wearing
what looks to be some sort of a finely crafted

silk robe, clutching a book under her arm, comes
down the steps and looks down and goes, "Taryon?"

SAM: Mama?

MATT: "Taryon, my boy!" And she sets the book down
and walks up, puts her hands out as she says,

"Oh," takes you at the sides of the face and pulls
you in for (kisses). "Oh, terribly sorry. I

"didn't realize that we had guests."

SAM: Oh, yes, these are my allies and my friends.
This is the team known as Vox Machina. They are a

fearless band of adventurers and they have taken
me in as their own.

MATT: "Look at you, so rugged!"

SAM: Well. Yes, I am, a bit!

MATT: "So you've had some adventures with my boy,
have you?

ALL: We have.

MATT: "That's wonderful. Have you spoken with your
father?"

SAM: Yes, I've spoken to Father, and Sister, and
it's good to know they're healthy. And it's lovely

to see you, as well. Have you been happy at all,
this last year?

MATT: "I--" And she reaches back and takes the
book off the step and goes, "I've been making my

"way through your library."

SAM: Oh! Oh, my books, in my room.

MATT: "Yes! Well, I've had a lot of time to
myself. Been a bit under the weather for some

"time, and these have kept me fine company."

SAM: Oh. That's lovely. I hope you've enjoyed them
as much as I did. What's your favorite one?

MATT: "Well, not this piece of trash." And she
sets it down. "There's one. What was it called?

"The River's Dawn. It was a brilliant--"

SAM: Before the River's Dawn, yes.

MATT: "Before the River's Dawn! That one, yes. It
was a continuation of the creation myth of

"Wildmount, but it turned into the spirits of the
gods, these two fauns, and they fell in love but

"could not be together because the dawn had to rise
and the sun would shine.

"It was very, very beautiful!"

SAM: Yes, yes! No it was, but also heartbreaking
at the same time.

MATT: "Very much so. It reminded me of you."

SAM: Yes. That's one of my favorites, as well.

MATT: "Well. I didn't break the binding too much,
I hope."

SAM: I'll fix it if you did. It's all right.

MATT: "All right."

SAM: Well, that's wonderful to hear. I'm glad
you've been entertaining yourself. I know living

with Papa can be very hard, and it's been very
hard on you all these years.

MATT: "If you would excuse us for just a moment,
please. Just a few moments." And she points

towards the door.

SAM: I told you they were like this.

TRAVIS: Yeah, no, we're going out the front door.
Front yard.

MARISHA: Bottle of wine!

MATT: Berthold is leading you out of the main area,
out the front door.

TRAVIS: Yeah, front door!

LAURA: Out the house, like get out?

MATT: You guys were on your way out.

SAM: Just wait on the fucking porch!

LIAM: We got it.

LAURA: Fine.

MATT: As soon as she has some privacy with you,
she goes, "My boy, if you could indulge me in some

"strange honesty, I'm rather intrigued at this
idea. I don't wish to undermine anything that

"we've built as a family. I've lived a privileged
life for a very long time, far longer than you and

"your sister have. I've lived within this house,
removed from the world. I do as responsibility

"asks of me, my wedded duties as both a wife and a
mother, and I do so without complaint. I have

"always seen you fight these same circumstances
bravely, and I find vicarious joy in your escape

"from this place this past year. These books are a
reminder of that same bravery. I know Howaardt has

"said many things, and he may be right. But there's
a little part of me that welcomes a little change

"in scenery and lifestyle. Maybe that's what the
family needs. I don't know. Perhaps I'm foolhardy.

"I know not."

SAM: No, you're right to think this way. This year
has been eye-opening for me, and I know that you

care for Papa, and you are a diligent and faithful
wife. But I know how hard it must have been to

live this life for so many years and I wonder what
it would be like if you hadn't been with him, what

kind of person you would be.

MATT: "Looking at you, looking at your sister, I
wouldn't change it for the world."

SAM: Well, things are going to have to change at
some point, right?

MATT: "One way or another. I just-- (sighs) I just
want you to make choices for yourself. I want you

"to do what you think is right, that you could live
with. Duty and blood is one thing, but... Anyway,

"I'm talking out of turn."

SAM: No. Thank you. Thank you for that.

MATT: "Could you not tell Howaardt we've had this
conversation?"

SAM: Mum's the word. All right. I'll be back, and
maybe we'll have time to talk more books later.

MATT: "I would like that very much."

SAM: Good evening.

MATT: "Good evening." As you leave, she's like,
"Oh! The other one I was trying to remember was

"The Mountain Range of Gold. It was a wonderful
three-part series--"

SAM: When you think he's dead, but he's not, and
he comes back?

MATT: "Well, the second book, you get halfway
through it before he even turns

"and reveals himself!"

SAM: I know! Well, you never see the body in the
first one, so that should have been a tip-off.

MATT: "And then the white robes and everything!
His renewed power, it's incredible! Anyway, I'm

"sorry, you have your friends waiting on you. Good
night, Taryon."

SAM: Yes.

LIAM: I want to adopt her.

MARISHA: She's awesome!

MATT: So as you step out to greet the rest of your
friends?

SAM: All right, let's go to the Jumping Jimmy, or
whatever it's called.

LAURA: How's your mother?

SAM: She's better. I mean, she's had a tough time.
That was the longest conversation I've had with

her in many years.

LAURA: Wow.

ASHLEY: She said she's under the weather. What's
wrong?

SAM: I think everybody's super stressed out and
heartsick about everything that's happening, and

living under a tyrant of a father is not healthy.
You should have seen me when I lived here. I was

not nearly as dashing or as charming as I am now.
It took me spreading my wings and flying before I

found my sense of humor. My hair looks better, my
eyes look better.

MARISHA: I thought you said that was because of
the aloe vera.

SAM: Well, yes. We didn't have any at home.

MARISHA: Right, yeah. Salt air is better for you.

SAM: I mean, life needs aloe to live. Is something
I always say.

TALIESIN: That's true.

LIAM: I've heard you say that two or three times.

SAM: Moisturizing products in general. Life needs
moisturizing products to live.

TALIESIN: Life needs moisture to live.

ASHLEY: I know my beauty regimen's changed.

MARISHA: Life needs moisture to live. It's way
smarter-sounding.

TALIESIN: All right, gauntlet dropped.

LAURA: All right, to the Laughing Ninny it is.

MATT: All right. Who's leading this charge?
Probably you, Taryon.

SAM: I know the place.

LIAM: You are in charge while we're here.

MATT: You've never been to this place. You've
heard of it, but you'd never be seen dead in a

place like this before. You lead your way in. At
this point, because when you arrived the sun was

still in the sky, but it was deep in the sky, so
by now it's post-dusk. You now see the massive

stone and wood structures of Deastok are dark
against the ever-dark sky with the windows now

aglow, this warm yellows and orange of the candle
and lantern-lit interiors. You can see there are

hanging lanterns that are put out there, and you
can see a number of individuals who seem to work

for the city, who go and place these lanterns up in
each of these poles, are now finishing their job

and are returning to the evening. Following these
lamps, along the street, the cobblestones are

still really well kept for as old as this town
seems to be. For a city that isn't a major

metropolis within a kingdom, and what your
experience has been in Tal'Dorei, a fair amount of

money still makes it way through this city.
Eventually, you find your way fairly far north

into the city until you come across the exterior
of the Grumpy Lily. Asking a few questions to

guide you to which building it is, it's much smaller
than you expected. You see what appears to be a

single-story pub with one window, one door, no
more than maybe 30 feet on any given side. It is

lit from the inside, though it's dimly lit. As you
approach and push past the somewhat ajar entryway,

you see before you what appears to be three
tables. Three singular, stained, brown tables. One

lone patron sits at the center table, an elderly
man inspecting a small, clay sculpture that he's

enraptured by, and a single barkeep to your right
that seems to notice your entry. A healthy, pale

woman of brunette hair in her forties, dressed in
a simple gray blouse. As soon as you enter and

take in the atmosphere, she goes, "Slow day,
folks! Happy to have the business!

"What can I get you?"

LIAM: Jeez, Grog, I don't even know if you're
going to fit in here.

TRAVIS: Yeah, it's really tiny.

MATT: Your head does reach the ceiling.

TRAVIS: Shit.

LAURA: Just dive in then?

SAM: Should we get anything to drink first? Or
just dive in?

TRAVIS: Yeah, it's like how you have to buy
something to use the restroom.

MARISHA: Do you have a shiraz? I was just
wondering if you had any imports. Do you have a

red wine?

MATT: "Yes! That I can get for you, dear. Don't
worry. Red wine we can do definitely." She walks

over and slams her hand on the side of the bar and
what you thought was once the patron now appears

to be the one barman there. "Wait! What! Oh. I
missed the conversation."

TRAVIS: Oh the guy with the sculpture?

MATT: Yeah. "Red wine, for our guests."

"Oh." He stands up and begrudgingly walks over.
You see his back is hunched forward and he's

(pained grunting). Leaves the room for a second.

"Well, sit down, find a place wherever you like."

SAM: Put two tables together, I guess?

LAURA: All three, really.

MARISHA: Let's just take them all.

TRAVIS: Wait, this is the meeting place of a dark
group, right? A shady group? Shouldn't we check

this area for anything shady?

TALIESIN: Is there shade in this establishment?

MATT: It's dimly lit, so there's plenty of
shadows.

LIAM: It's a five-by-five square. Do we see
anything amiss? Oh, that's terrible. 24.

MATT: Nothing seems amiss. It seems like a shitty
pub. It's the definition of a

poorly attended dive.

LAURA: Does it look like there's any seams in the
ground that would be a trapdoor or anything?

MATT: You can make an investigation check if you
want to.

LAURA: 17.

MATT: You begin to look around the floor and keep
perspective around the area. No. You see some

stains, you see some crumbs, and at one point you
look over in the corner and you see what appears

to be a piece of stale bread that's been left
under one of the tables and there are three rats

currently eating it. As soon as you lean in, they
all stop and look at you and scatter.

LAURA: Oh, you can keep going.

TALIESIN: Could be worse. They could not be afraid
of you.

LAURA: That's true.

MATT: (laughs) They just give you the fuck-you
look and keep eating their bread.

TALIESIN: That's when you know you've really found
the right bar. The rats were like: "We reserved

"this table two weeks ago. You have to make a phone
call."

MATT: The elderly barman walks in now and he's got
two bottles of red wine and he's shuffling.

(grunts, clinks) "I'll get your cups." Turns
around and starts shuffling back.

LAURA: (laughing) Do you need any help?

MARISHA: I mean we have-- Oh, it's fine.

TALIESIN: Just let it happen.

SAM: Okay. Who do you think we proposition here?
The old man?

LIAM: That guy.

SAM: That guy? Really? What makes you say that?

TALIESIN: Shifty eyes.

LIAM: Shifty yeah, may be an act, even.

SAM: He's just old I thought. No?

LAURA: Nobody's just old.

LIAM: He's many things.

MARISHA: That's true, look at Pike's grandpa.

LIAM: Look at Pike.

ASHLEY: Look at me.

LIAM: How old are you, again?

ASHLEY: 142.

LIAM: I said goddamn.

SAM: Is that true?

ASHLEY: No.

SAM: Oh.

(laughter)

SAM: Oh. Well, because you could be.

ASHLEY: I forgot my birthday. I don't know how old
I am.

SAM: Is it in the hundreds?

ASHLEY: No. I think it's in the 30s.

SAM: Oh, okay.

ASHLEY: Right?

MATT: Whatever you want.

ASHLEY: Yeah.

LIAM: You ain't no baby.

MATT: The gentleman shuffles back now with a bunch
of cups. His hands wrung through all the various

handles. (grunts, clicks)

LAURA: Impressive.

MATT: (grunts) "Two gold for both bottles."

LAURA: I give him two gold.

MATT: "Thank you."

LAURA: You're welcome.

SAM: In my earring, I say to Vex: I'm clamming up,
you do it.

LAURA: Sir?

MATT: You see him walking and he goes like
(sighs).

LAURA: On your way to the back, could you tell the
Many we'd like to speak to them?

MATT: He slowly turns his head over to the
bartender, the woman. "What was that?"

LAURA: Oh, just a conversation with the Many.

MATT: "What about them?"

LIAM: I dip my thumb into some wine and I use
thieves' cant and write "discuss"

in wine on the bar.

MATT: (click) She gives a click noise to the old
man, who goes (groan, thump) Are you going to take

your bottles or what?

LAURA: No, yeah, we'll definitely keep those.

MATT: "All right, pick them up. Follow me."

TALIESIN: Oh, we're going to get to see the real
bar.

MATT: He turns around and shuffles out. It's like
following a bad, slow NPC in World of Warcraft.

You're like, just go fucking faster! His pace is
terrible. Yeah, it's awful.

LAURA: Running ahead, turning around.

MATT: Exactly, just waiting.

TRAVIS: Over here, adventurer!

MATT: Eventually, he takes you out of the small
pub, past the unused kitchen, which has another

series of stale bread clumps on the side, down to
what looks to be a broom closet. He gets there to

the edge of the broom closet and pulls out a key
ring.

LAURA: I want to pay attention to what key he's
taking.

MARISHA: Can I take the bread crumbs from the
corner and throw it down

so the rats could have it?

MATT: Sure. So you walk over to the kitchen and
grab some of the bread crumbs and throw them down

on the ground and you wait there, because there's
no rats present. And you're like, bread crumbs.

They scatter a little further out. You turn around
and the minute you turn, in the air you hear

(skittering) and look over, and there's like seven
rats that just scurried out of the shadows and are

just going at these crumbs immediately.

TRAVIS: I kill all of them.

LAURA: Sploosh!

LIAM: I nudge my sister and say, all mine.

LAURA: Yes. That she is.

MATT: He pulls one key and unlocks the small
closet. You paid attention? (creak) Opens this

rickety wooden door, and goes (grunt) and walks
past, and he's behind the door, expectantly

waiting. You guys glance into the space, and you
can see there's what looks to be a low torchlight

about every ten feet down a wooden stairway that
descends about 30, 40 feet.

LIAM: Traps, people hiding, anything that seems
out of place or dangerous.

MATT: Traps, or people hiding?

LIAM: Traps.

LAURA: I'll look for people hiding.

MATT: Perception check, investigation check.

LAURA: 24.

LIAM: 24.

MARISHA and ASHLEY: Twinsies!

MATT: Look at that. That's disgusting. All right,
so you guys make your way down. No traps in the

stair descent, but you make your way to the bottom
of the stairs without issue. You don't see

anything necessarily fishy. You do see these
torches have been burning for a little bit, a

couple hours, and are probably needing to be
re-upped pretty soon. You guys eventually make

your way down, and as soon as the last of you--
who's following up the rear in this, by the way?

What's the marching order?

SAM: I'll go toward the front with the twins?

MATT: The hallway here is about big enough for you
to go single file.

LAURA: Okay. You'll hang behind me, Tary?

ASHLEY: I'm in front of Grog.

MARISHA: Yeah, I'll hang with Grog and Pike.

TALIESIN: I'm in the center, as well.

TRAVIS: I'm in the back.

MATT: Okay, so Grog's in the very back. Keyleth,
Percy.

LAURA: Pike is with Grog.

MATT: Yeah, Pike's with Grog. So we'll say, Grog
in the back, then Pike, then Keyleth, then Percy,

then Taryon?

LAURA: Yeah.

MATT: And Vex and Vax. And you have Trinket in
your necklace, I assume? Okay. All right, so you

guys descend down the stairway. As soon as, Grog,
you make your way in, it's tiny. You have to

(straining) squeeze in and duck low and even just
walking through the pathway, your shoulders are

rubbing against the sides of the wall, and your
head occasionally (bang, bang).

LAURA: It's like you in Japan, baby!

TRAVIS: I know. Taking a shower, I broke like two
shower heads.

Just turning around, I was like (crash).

LIAM: The beds, was that like lying down on a
saltine for you?

TRAVIS: Oh yeah. My heels were just over like
the--

LAURA: We went into McDonald's and his head hit
the ceiling!

MATT: You are a kaiju!

ASHLEY: A kaiju from the deep! A level seven!

MARISHA: Okay, wait, before we go any further.

MATT: Okay.

MARISHA: Wait.

TRAVIS: Oh my god. Holy shit. Before we go any
further, wait.

MARISHA: Do I have to be doing a short rest to do
the Inspiring Leader thing?

MATT: It's ten minutes, it takes to do.

MARISHA: Oh, never mind.

LAURA: Well, no, we could stand here for ten
minutes!

TRAVIS: Yeah, no, please. Fucking say some words!

MARISHA: I'm new to the being an inspiring leader
thing.

MATT: Yeah, it's ten minutes, before you know
you're going to go into something,

you stop and do this.

MARISHA: I should've done that at the bar.

LIAM: Wouldn't that be cool if you were just
pep-talking us all the way down here?

SAM: Start it now.

LAURA: Yeah, start it now! Just do it while we're
walking!

MARISHA: Okay, okay. As we walk I'll be like: You
know what, guys? I've had a lot of time to think

over the year that we've been away--

MATT: The door closes behind Grog and you hear it
lock.

MARISHA: And I feel like we've grown so much as
people, and you guys are family. You're a family

to me. And I go on for a while. Do you guys
remember that time in Stillben? When we very first

met, and we all didn't really like each other, and
Grog, I don't think you

understood me for a while.

TRAVIS: Still don't.

MARISHA: Yeah, that's fine. That's fair. Hey Grog,
do you remember that one time--

MATT: This is great, by the way, because at the
bottom of the stairs it only goes for about 15

more feet before there's a door. There's a man on
a stool who's just sitting there going--

LIAM: She'll just be another minute.

TRAVIS: I'm about to find out what the inside of a
Bag of Holding feels like, I swear.

MATT: He's not stopping you.

MARISHA: Do you remember that time-- I think it
was the first time I made you laugh, and I turned

into an earth elemental, and then pretended to do
an "I'm going down the stairs"

thing through the floor?

TRAVIS: Oh yeah!

MARISHA: Yeah, I just remembered that the other
day, and I just love you guys so much, you know?

TALIESIN: I don't feel included in this.

MARISHA: Yeah, I don't think you were around yet.
But I love you so much!

TALIESIN: Okay, now I feel better. That's all.

SAM: Any change in our bodies or anything?

LIAM: She's going for ten in-game, real-time
minutes.

MATT: As you guys are all in the hallway, Grog at
the back, you can't move forward, because

everyone's stopped, and you're just like-- (groan)
All of you who wish to can take 17 temporary hit

points. That's by the inspiring leader feat.

MARISHA: Oh yeah, you want to mock until you
realize you get your hit points!

MATT: It is your choice as to whether or not you
felt inspired by that and take them.

MARISHA: And I love you guys. I love you guys so
much.

MATT: Grog's too uncomfortable to take them.

TRAVIS: No, I just start weeping silently in the
back.

LIAM: I mean, let's be honest, he wouldn't even
feel the difference.

MATT: That's true, yeah. That's what Grog needs,
is temporary hit points.

LIAM: Grog would just go (sneezes).

MARISHA: Not showing your sensitivity?

LAURA: Thanks. Thanks, Keyleth. That felt good.
That was a nice trip down memory lane.

ASHLEY: I feel inspired.

LAURA: Oh, hey! How's it going there?

MATT: You see this guy, he's tough and surly,
looks like a balding man who's just like made of

muscle and anger. He's sitting there with one eye
open, one a little squinted, he's just--

LAURA: Do you feel inspired? No.

LIAM: Not the warm and fuzzy type, are you?

MATT: He doesn't seem to respond. You do hear like
a series of muffled voices and what sounds like a

faint beat of some kind from the other side of the
wall, just muffled.

TALIESIN: Is the password, "I am what I am," not
sure? Too strange a reference; never mind.

MATT: He begins to reach over for what looks to be
a small lever that's hidden on the side.

LAURA: We're here to speak to the Many.

MATT: Stops. (grunts)

SAM: We're in.

LAURA: We're going to just go on in, then.

SAM: That word just gets us in.

MATT: So. As you guys enter this doorway, as it
pushes open, you're immediately hit with a wall of

voices and laughter and conversation, interweaving
in multiple languages. This is far more lively

than you expected it would be, it's a large tavern
hall. It's almost two stories tall, but it's open.

There's a central, circular chandelier that hangs
over with what looks to be flickering candles in a

circle around it. You can see elements of what are
almost like a second floor, but it's more like a

slight balcony outcropping. You don't see any
doorways, it's just a level platform above, and

there before you, you see what has to be three or
four dozen people scattered across a number of

tables, all in various forms of dress and many of
them are drinking, some of them are playing games

of chance, some of them are in deep conversation.
You can see, the music-- though this is a bad

example, but it's what I have-- it's not a full
band, per se. It looks like there's a set of three

percussionists in the far corner that are all in
the process of weaving this rhythmic beat that

shifts and changes. Some of them are on more of a
hand drum, some of them are more small percussion

instruments. It's interesting. It's not the usual
bar atmosphere you're used to.

It has almost a weird--

SAM: Would you say more like Blue Man Group or
more like a subway bucket drummer?

MATT: I'd say it's in between the two, actually.
Take a little Blue Man Group and a little bit of

subway bucket drummer. It's right in between
there. You guys step into the chamber and take in

the atmosphere a bit. Whether that be with smiles,
awe, or confusion and care.

TALIESIN: That's exactly what I said, the real
bar.

ASHLEY: I like this.

LIAM: This is like old times.

MATT: As soon as you begin having this
conversation and taking in the atmosphere, one of

four bar hands sees you approach. You see a jagged
smile of a hairless man with ruddy skin that

immediately comes up to you. "Aye, friends! New
faces are few and far between here in Deastok.

"Welcome to our little slice of the family. What
can I get you?"

SAM: Well, we brought bottles. That's rude, isn't
it?

LAURA: The good stuff is down here.

MATT: "I don't know where you got that shit but
put that away.

"We'll get you right fucked up, eh?"

MARISHA: Do you have a shiraz?

MATT: "I'll see what I can muster."

MARISHA: I like these people!

MATT: "Slim pickings for room here. It's a bit
early in the evening. That's when it's the

"busiest. Just find some space, sit down. Folks
don't want you to sit by them?

"Don't fucking sit by them."

LAURA: Thank you. Do we see room for a large
group?

MATT: You see two tables that have room for half
of a large group.

LAURA: All right. Split up?

SAM: Why don't we ask them nicely if they would
like to move?

LAURA: No, let's not do that.

TRAVIS: Yeah, no. You do that. Go by yourself.

SAM: No?

TALIESIN: No. This is special.

TRAVIS: How about the talkers go to one table?

MARISHA: And then the defenders go to another in
case shit goes bad. I like that.

TRAVIS: The Defenders' Table. Yeah, so I'm going to
the talkers' table.

LAURA: Yeah, obviously.

MARISHA: Vex, Tary, I feel like you guys are good
talkers.

LAURA: Right.

TALIESIN: I'll join you.

LIAM: I'm actually going to wander the room.

MARISHA: I'll sit with Grog and Pike.

TRAVIS: Yeah.

ASHLEY: Yeah, Shiraz time.

LAURA: All right.

SAM: What's our play here? Do we just keep saying
the word "many" as many times as we can and see

how far it goes?

LAURA: This is about as in as we get with the
Many.

SAM: This is it? So now we ask for her by name? Or
him by name? Korshad?

LAURA: Yeah. He or she may not reveal themselves
too quickly.

SAM: All right.

TALIESIN: We could buy Korshad a drink.

LAURA: That is a beautiful idea.

TALIESIN: Thank you.

LAURA: Care of one Taryon Darrington.

SAM: Of course. I have just enough for a nice
drink.

LAURA: Oh, we'll cover the drink, darling. Party
funds cover the drink. It's just in your name.

SAM: Oh. Oh, okay. All right. All right. I'm slow
to catch on sometimes.

LAURA: Can we grab a barmaid?

MATT: You split between the two tables. One of the
tables appears to be three guys who are in a card

game. As soon as you sit down they (grunts) and
then keep talking amongst themselves more about

taking bets, bluffing each other, giving shit
about their home lives, stuff like that. The other

table has four quiet individuals that are, look to
be elvish lineage. Either half-elf or full elf;

it's hard to tell. They're wearing these hoods
that show the ears from underneath but then seem

to block a lot of the features of their face and
guard a lot of the forehead. This silk hood that

drips down past the nose on the sides.

LAURA: Do we recognize any semblance of that
garb?

MATT: Make a history check.

SAM: History check.

LAURA: Well, my history is shit, but 19.

MATT: 19. You haven't seen this kind of dress, but
you've heard of it. It seems to be of Wildmount

but the eastern side of Wildmount, not a part of
the Dwendalian Empire. This more stems from

Zorhaus, which is the other kingdom on the
continent. It's actually in a tense existence

along the border of the Dwendalian Empire.

LAURA: You said it was to the east?

MATT: Zorhaus, I'm pretty sure that's what it's
called.

LAURA: It is now.

MATT: It is! It's whatever it's called in the
campaign guide.

LAURA: Oh! Oh man, that's right. Now you have to
stick to what you wrote. That's crazy.

MATT: I know, I'll just have to look it up again.
But anyway. As soon as you sit down at the table

the four individuals look at each other and then
get up from the table and then walk off to find

another place.

LAURA: Maybe some of us don't smell very good in
this group. I'm not one of them, though.

I smell amazing.

LIAM: I smell fucking fantastic, and I'm over
there. I am going to laze about the musicians and

listen to the musicians and wait for them to
finish a set.

MATT: Okay.

LAURA: I guess all of us can sit at the table
because of the people--

MATT: All of you guys can sit at the table now
that you've forced them off their own space. The

guys playing the card game seemed to pay no mind.
As you sit around the table, the barhand that met

you here approaches and once more goes, "All
right, looks like you've found a place to sit,

"what can I get you? Got you that shiraz you were
asking for, eh." He goes ahead and he pulls up

what looks to be a dark green bottle, already uncorked
and he brings over a hefty metallic goblet or

tankard and then pours it in there. It appears to
be something akin to a shiraz, I suppose. Fills it

to the top, slides it forward. "All right. Drinks
for anyone else, eh?"

TRAVIS: Yeah, you got any pies or meat or both?

TALIESIN: To drink.

TRAVIS: Do they not have food?

LAURA: No, probably.

MATT: "I can get you a meat pie, if that's what
you're asking. I don't recommend you drink it,

"though you could probably squeeze water from a
stone, so wouldn't surprise me if you could."

TRAVIS: Yeah, meat pie and an ale, please.

MATT: "All right, coming on up. Anyone else?"

LAURA: Whiskey?

TALIESIN: Same.

MATT: "It can be done. So whiskey. And you, little
one?"

ASHLEY: Well, you said you have things that will
fuck you up right,

so what would that be considered?

MATT: "Oh, I mean no offense, lady, but you're a
bit small-sized--"

ALL: Whoa!

MATT: "I mean that respectfully! Look, I'm just
looking out for my patrons here. I don't want to

"go ahead and send someone to the local temple."

LAURA: She can drink most people under the table.

ASHLEY: Bring it!

MATT: "All right. I'll take your word for it,
then."

SAM: I'll have another shiraz.

MATT: "Another shiraz."

LIAM: Over the earring: Pickle, will you get me
one of those, as well, and don't drink it before I

come back?

ASHLEY: As a matter of fact, I want two of
whatever that is.

MATT: "All right, coming up." And he leaves the
table.

TALIESIN: Did you order the drink for when he
comes back?

SAM: Oh the other drink? Oh fuck. Wait, before he
goes, pardon me. I have one more order to make. I

would like to buy a drink for Korshad, courtesy of
Taryon Darrington.

And I'll slip him a gold piece.

TRAVIS: I thought you were about to shake his hand
with two fingers.

SAM: There is a coin between the two fingers.

MATT: "Korshad, you say?"

SAM: Yes.

MATT: "All right."

LAURA: I nudge him under the table.

MATT: "You want what he likes, it's going to cost
you more than that."

LAURA: What does he like?

SAM: Whatever it is, here is another four and keep
another one for yourself.

MATT: "Thank you very much. That'll put you up to
yours, though. We will go ahead and settle your

"bills at the end of the drinks. But all right,
Korshad it is."

TALIESIN: What table did the bartender look at
when he said that?

MATT: Make a perception check.

LAURA: Oh, I was planning on totally watching
that, too.

TALIESIN: Yeah, that's a safe 13.

LAURA: Should I roll, too?

MATT: Well, you said you were looking, too, so
roll a perception, yeah.

LAURA: Well yeah, okay. 30.

MATT: 30, okay. You gather the direction that he
glanced. It was a cursory look, more to see if the

individual in question was still in the room or
not. But you got the direction of it, and you know

exactly where he was looking-- three tables and
that way there. He leaves for a bit, and the

laughter is still rising and falling throughout
the room. The musicians in the corner, which are

two younger human boys and what appears to be a
female goliath, who has the heavier drum in the

center, who is like the mid-piece, the big (heavy
drum noises). The two guys, one of them has a

small set of lap drums, (light drum noises) the
faster beats. And the guy to the left of her--

they could be brothers; you're not too sure, their
features are similar but different enough, the

ages seem off. The guy on the left has a series of
small wooden blocks and what looks to be some sort

of contraption that has three or four different
small percussion instruments that are all fixed to

it and so he is leaping between them all. For
being just percussion, that variety is still

making a cool melody. You're still able to find
certain notes and certain blends where it still is

a very different and unique atmosphere. They
manage to bring to this crescendo the piece that

you entered on, and it finishes. There is no
real-- there is occasionally a couple of claps here

and most everyone is busy about their own shit.

LIAM: All right, I clap. Excuse me, players?

MATT: As they're both looking over to grab a drink
to stop and the younger guy with a scruffy chin

and this mop of hair that's a little wild glances
over to you: "Yeah?"

LIAM: That was a really unique piece you guys just
did there. Thank you.

MATT: "You're welcome."

LIAM: You know, I have only ever heard music like
that one time, and it wasn't here. It wasn't in

this city, it was actually in Emon. What was his
name? Dranzel. It was a musician named Dranzel--

this is a long shot, but you haven't come across a
Dr. Dranzel in your travels? I've always wanted to

hear him play again.

MATT: "Can't say I have, sir. My apologies."

LIAM: Oh, shit.

MATT: "Sorry. You guys ever heard of Dr. Dranzel?"
And the other guy goes, "Nope."

LIAM: Orcish. Stylish hats.

MATT: The goliath woman is sitting there and she is
just staring off across the room and goes, "No."

(laughter)

MATT: "Sorry, friend."

LAURA: I'm keeping an eye on the side of the room
that he glanced in, looking for anybody going and

delivering drinks to the people.

MATT: Okay. You watch the gentleman who has been
getting you guys drinks, and he is in the process

of getting all of your various drink orders and
pouring what you have requested, and he does come

to a point where he gets this one fine jewel
goblet that he has specifically set off to the

side and he takes it and washes it and takes care
to clean it entirely and dry it off, and once it's

set there he reaches underneath, counting a few
bottles and pulls one drink, uncorks it and there

is this thick dark brown glass jug and as he
uncorks it he pours it into there, glances over,

grabs another thing, seems to be mixing it with
something else. He is being very careful with the

actual amounts he is pouring. He finishes that,
takes a piece of what looks like an orange,

crushes it in the inside and leaves the rind and
takes it and swishes it for a second. (sighs) And

walks over to a table across the entire hall,
where you saw him glance before.

SAM: One sex on the beach!

(laughter)

MATT: He walks over to a table where you see what
appear to be about five different patrons at the

table. Most of them wealthily dressed. Two of them
appear to be older mercantile or business owners,

they wear the jewelry on their hands very
extravagantly and displaying both wealth and

prestige to an ostentatious way that you know most
high-end guild workers or owners tend to display.

You are very familiar with caste systems that have
emerged in a lot of these central metropolitan

areas, and so you can very easily pick up some of
those themes. Two of them appear as a contrast

very simply dressed. No jewelry. You can't make
out any details in this distance and there is one

man who he hands the drink to, he sets it down in
front of him and slides it forward. The man you

see there, he has deep brown skin, marked, there
appear to be a number of tattoos that curl up his

arms and up the side of his neck and touch his ears
on each side. He's wearing light, billowing

clothes of silver and maroon silks that end about
the elbow and are just hanging beneath, leaving

the rest of his arm completely visible where you
can see the tattoo continues up the forearm and

grasps the back of the hand, almost like he has a
gauntlet on that is just his skin. You see around

him a series of gold and silver bracelets and
rings that adorn his fingers. His face is framed

by a lion's mane of black and gray dreadlocked
hair. Because of your perception check, at this

distance and your ranger-like eyes, you can see
what you perceive to be a visible scar on his

throat from ear to ear. He's currently
mid-conversation with the patrons at the table,

leaned back in his chair in a comfortable setting
and as soon as the drink-- huh?

LAURA: Can I read his lips?

MATT: Sure. Well, the drink arrives and gets
pushed forward and you read the barkeep's lips as

he says, "This drink is a gift to you from patrons
on the other side of the place." And this

individual, who you assume at this point is
probably Korshad, gives a look and goes, (grunts).

And he points over, right over to your table
across the room. You watch as Korshad

sits up, glances over your direction, sees you
looking at him directly. Takes the drink, scoots

it over next to his side, and folds his fingers
and goes back into listening to the conversation

of the other patrons. And the barkeep who is
standing there is, "Right." And then goes back to

the bar, gathers the rest of your drinks and
brings them slowly over to your table and passes

them out. "All right, got a second shiraz, for you
there, sir. We've got a whiskey, and a whiskey. We

"got an ale and a meat pie for you. And you,
well--" (laughs) He brings up these two mugs.

They're simple ceramic mugs that are dark and
handcrafted, and he sloshes them up to you and as

you see inside, most ale has a good liquidy
content. This has a very syrupy thick texture to

it. He slides both forward and goes, "I don't
expect you to drink both those back to back."

ASHLEY: Well, that's not up for you to decide, my
friend. I get on my earring. Hey, String Bean,

your drink is here.

LIAM: Yeah, and Sarenrae will know if you drink it
before I get back, so just hold onto it for me.

ASHLEY: Well, I can't make any promises.

MATT: And he leans forward and goes, "This here is
the Change-Bringer's Nectar.

"You sip this, slowly."

LAURA: The Change-Bringer's Nectar?

MARISHA: Write that shit down. Can Keyleth get up
and walk past the diplomats' table

and run my hands--

MATT: Well, you guys are all at the same table
now.

MARISHA: Oh, we're at the same table now?

MATT: Yeah, one table got up as soon as you sat
down.

MARISHA: Oh, so we scootched together? Okay, then
I'm just going to lean into Vex and give her an

Enhance Ability on her charisma.

LAURA: Ooh! I'll take that.

MATT: Okay.

MARISHA: You get advantage--

LAURA: On charisma checks?

MARISHA: Yeah. On checks.

LAURA: I like it.

MARISHA: Her cleavage gets a little nicer.

LAURA: It can't get any nicer than it already is.

TALIESIN: Very fair.

LIAM: All said out loud.

TALIESIN: Pike, which one of those two is Vax's?
Which one of those two belongs to Vax?

ASHLEY: This one.

TALIESIN: Oh that one? I'm taking a sip of it.

ASHLEY: Take a sip. It's very thick.

MATT: It's very thick, and it's sweeter than you
expected, but it has a definite burn that grows

and grows after drinking it. It's syrupy, but
because of its syrupy texture, as it goes down it

also coats and numbs everything as it touches.

LIAM: Percy, I saw that. You have to buy me a
whole other drink.

TALIESIN: That's fine. I put my whiskey in its
place and take the whole cup.

LIAM: No motherfucker, that's not what I said! I
want to drink that one and the one after it! Oh,

you don't want to start with me, Fredrickstein.

TRAVIS: Are you sipping it?

ASHLEY: I'm sipping it. I'm doing as the locals
do. Enjoying it how he told me.

MATT: And you get the sense it's probably a good
thing.

ASHLEY: It burns!

MATT: It's almost like maple syrup Everclear.

ASHLEY: Ugh!

LAURA: Gross!

TRAVIS: How's my meat pie?

MATT: Meat pie's pretty good!

TRAVIS: This is pretty good!

LAURA: That makes me want an empanada right now.

LIAM: Role-playing, guys.

MATT: Sadly, no empanadas in Deastok.

SAM: Why isn't he coming over here? Should we send
another drink? Maybe two this time.

LAURA: He's in the middle of a conversation right
now.

TALIESIN: He has to sit and enjoy his drink.

LAURA: Let him take some time.

ASHLEY: (slurring words) Should we sent him a
Change-Bringer's Nectar? Oh no!

LAURA: Oh no, Pike!

ASHLEY: (still slurring) I only had like three
drinks. Three sips.

TRAVIS: Keep going.

LAURA: Just tiny sips.

ASHLEY: They were so small.

LAURA: Drink some, maybe some water, too, in
between each sip.

ASHLEY: Okay. Maybe some meat pie.

TALIESIN: That's whiskey. That's supposed to be--
never mind. Go ahead.

MARISHA: Hey, who's the Change-Bringer? Does
anyone know? I feel like this drink is inspired.

Can I do a check to see?

MATT: Make a religion check.

MARISHA: Aw, I'm not good at this. Pike, you know
gods!

ASHLEY: Let me see if I know. Will I know the
Change-Bringer?

MARISHA: Oh, please. I have no idea. I definitely
have zero idea.

ASHLEY: I'm going to see if I can think of it.
14.

MATT: It's really not that hard. The
Change-Bringer is Avandra. Avandra, one of the

gods of the pantheon.

MARISHA: Oh. Yeah, of course we knew that.

MATT: The Change-Bringer is the deity that looks
over luck, looks over adventure, travel, the open

road. That's as much as you can glean from your
passing knowledge of the deity. Since you are not

a woman of faith, obviously, you don't know
much beyond that.

MARISHA: It just sounded fancy.

ASHLEY: It sounded so fancy.

MATT: She's also known as "she who makes the
path."

LAURA: Hey, Tary.

SAM: Yes? Is it time? Should I go over there?

LAURA: Just calm down. This is mainly what I'm
trying to tell you right now.

Stop being so weird.

ASHLEY: Do you want a sip of Change-Bringer's
Nectar?

LAURA: It might actually help you just a little
bit.

TALIESIN: Do what we do any time there's trouble.
Sit down, pay attention,

and do everything she says.

LAURA: And don't look sneaky.

TALIESIN: Have a sip of this. It'll help.

LAURA: Yeah, seriously. Just have a little sip. A
little sip,

it's always good to relax your nerves.

SAM: All right.

ASHLEY: Loosey-goosey.

SAM: I'll take my helm and cock it to the side.

LAURA: Yeah, jauntily. That's good, yeah.

TALIESIN: Okay, now I feel like I'm on a
listing ship.

TRAVIS: What's your confident face look like? More
tongue. Little further. Yep. Little higher eyebrow

on the right side.

LAURA: Okay, maybe stop. I'm just afraid he's
going to look over here at any moment. I'm keeping

an eye on good old Korshad, and seeing if he looks
over here. I also want to see if I can catch his

lips and see what he's talking about over on the
side there.

LIAM: And I would like to look around the room and
make sure that other people aren't watching us, or

if so, where in the bar they are.

MATT: Make a perception check.

TRAVIS: And I would like to make my way over to
the goliath woman.

MATT: Okay. So as you begin walking in that
direction, Vex. Couple things. One, you notice

that Korshad, while he seems to be mostly being
talked at or at least just listening to a

conversation, when he does speak, he leans in and
does this.

LAURA: Of course he fucking does.

MATT: You get the sense he's a very guarded man
and this is not his first rodeo. He speaks through

his fingers.

LAURA: I do, too!

MATT: But he doesn't appear to look over at your
table again. He seems to have acknowledged the

drink, is enjoying it slowly, and is back
enthralled by the conversation at his table. What

did you roll?

LIAM: 25.

MATT: 25. And what did you say you were going to
do?

MARISHA: Mimic Vex.

MATT: Okay. You both cover your mouths.

LAURA: What are you doing?

MARISHA: I'm following your lead.

LAURA: You don't have to do that.

TALIESIN: Does this one still work? We can do this
one.

LAURA: Yeah, that one's good. Just this.

ASHLEY: Is this good?

LAURA: That's it, Pike. Pike's got it. He's
definitely going to come over and talk to us now,

I can feel it. We're so cool.

TALIESIN: This is a lot of drink that I seem to
have taken on.

MATT: Vax. Glancing about the chamber, remember I
said there was a secondary platform, that didn't

have any doorways to rooms, but there was just the
upper walkway across the room both ways? There are

about six figures on each one.

LIAM: Six on each one?

MATT: They're all sitting there, wearing leather
armor, mostly covered by a cloak. You glance up

and you can see underneath at least two of the
cloaks what appear to be the shape or outline of a

crossbow at the ready.

TALIESIN: 12 of them? 12 men?

LIAM: I relay to the group quietly, yes. Packing.
12 or so above us all, so no sudden movements.

MATT: The music picks up again, Grog, as you're
walking over. The next piece is occurring and you

can see now that while the previous one had a
frenetic tribal beat, this one has more of a

scattered, if I could say percussion jazz sense.
It tends to have multiple changes. Yeah, if you

could. If you haven't heard the jazz timpani
before, it's fantastic. It's more of an

improvisational piece. You can see where they're
each building off of each other, and then one will

make a change and the others will shift with it.
You don't notice this, because you really don't

care, but anybody who had musical interests would
be able to pick up on this. But you walk up and

you see the goliath woman. Most of the goliath
women you've come across, their lifestyle leads to

either very short-kept or very tightly bound hair,
as the coarse hair of the goliaths tends to mat up

very thickly when living in the wild as your tribe
did. This goliath female's hair is really well

kept, actually. It's almost shining, which catches
you off guard entirely. She's not tattooed and

appears to be in a trance as she's in the process
of drumming away, not even looking at the two of

her compatriots or any patron. She's spacing out
and is currently enraptured

by the music she's creating.

TRAVIS: Are there any weapons around her feet or
where she's sitting or playing?

MATT: Make a perception check.

TRAVIS: Three.

MATT: She has very nice boots. And as a man who
has made boots in the past, you can acknowledge,

those are very well-made boots.

TRAVIS: Me Grog!

LIAM: I just love the alacrity that Travis goes to
two, three. It's so good.

TRAVIS: You play good!

MATT: The head slowly turns and the eyes focus for
a second in the dim, snow-blind looking pupils,

and gives you a nod.

TRAVIS: Nice hair.

MATT: Head turns a little to the side.

TRAVIS: I'll be-- if you--

ASHLEY: Tell her she has nice boots, Grog.

TRAVIS: What?

ASHLEY: Tell her she has nice boots.

TRAVIS: Nice boobs!

MATT: (bang) Big drum hit, and her part of the
song comes to a halt. The two other bits of music

alter but continue the beats, and she just--

TRAVIS: Boots. Nice boots. Bidet. And I go back to
the group.

MATT: As you walk back to the group, a little
dejected, Vax, since you're the one who's paying

attention the most at this point, you notice as
the goliath gets this small grin on the side of

her face and continues to go back to the drums.

LAURA: You charmed her!

MARISHA: Look at you!

LIAM: Nice work, de Bergerac!

MATT: But Grog doesn't see it.

ASHLEY: I'll be your Cyrano!

MATT: All right. So what's the next order of
business, guys?

TALIESIN: Is that conversation breaking up?

LAURA: That's what I planned on doing, is waiting
out that conversation. I in no way want to

interrupt it.

MATT: About 20 additional minutes go by. Another
round is bought at the table, with Korshad still

slowly, very carefully sipping the drink that you
guys bought for him. Doesn't appear to be slowing,

doesn't appear to be breaking. You can keep
waiting if you want.

LAURA: I want to get one of those fancy drinks for
myself and see what it is.

SAM: You mean the Korshad drink?

LAURA: I want one of the Korshad drinks.

MATT: One of the Korshad drinks, okay.

TALIESIN: I would assume you've already had this
stuff at this point. We've been sharing a cup

around. This is too much for a human being to
handle.

MATT: Do you go to the bar?

LAURA: I'll go up to the bar. We don't know his
name, do we? The bartender's name?

MATT: You haven't asked him yet, no. There are a
few barhands that walk around, but the one you've

been going with, you can go ahead and catch his
eye as you go through the area.

"Hey, do you need something?"

LAURA: Of course, darling. I didn't catch your
name.

MATT: "Oh! Wence."

LAURA: Wence, thank you so much. Could I grab
another of those fabulous five-gold drinks there,

that you brought to our friend?

MATT: "Oh, you want Schlond's Embrace. Okay. If
you're sure about that."

LAURA: I don't know, what is it?

MATT: "It's an acquired taste. It's made from a
very long-distilled, 40-year processing of a heavy

"mint leaf, and that, when it's been very thickly
fermented, is mixed in with this very sour port

"base that's been repeatedly funneled and sifted
until it's become almost thick in its own right.

"That's mixed together with a few other sugars and a
bit of a special fruit. Honestly, I think it

"tastes pretty shitty, but it's what he likes."

LAURA: I'm going to give it a go.

MATT: "All right then! Five gold." He goes and
makes the drink for you again.

LAURA: Slowly but surely marking little amounts
off this party fund, y'all.

MARISHA: Need to make some more money.

MATT: However, he does not bring it in the same
glass. He brings it in a regular glass. You get

the sense that the glass that was filled was his
own. But it's delivered and it's different. It

almost has a weird, mushroomy flavor to it. The
fermentations involved in the processing of this

is not the type of alcohol you'd expect. It's a
little musty. But it's functional, and it has an

aftertaste that comes to a very strong mint, like
a wintergreen afterwards.

It's a very strange mixture.

LAURA: It's like brushing your teeth, only you get
drunk.

MATT: Yeah, kind of. In fact, elements of it taste
like having orange juice

after brushing your teeth.

LAURA: Foul.

MATT: Yeah. It's a little rough at times.

MARISHA: What are you learning about the man by
what he drinks?

LAURA: I'm learning that he probably has minty
fresh breath.

MARISHA: Oh, really?

ASHLEY: Maybe you should cheers him from afar so
he can see you're drinking it.

LAURA: Yeah, but mine's in an ugly cup.

MARISHA: They didn't give you the same cup?

TRAVIS: I have nice cups. Do you want a
jewel-encrusted chalice?

LAURA: Do you have one?

TRAVIS: Yeah!

LAURA: Pull it out.

TRAVIS: I'm like fucking Bed, Bath, and Beyond in
this bitch. Jewel-encrusted chalice.

LAURA: Do you really have a jewel-encrusted-- you
do, in your fucking Bag of Holding?

TRAVIS: Not anymore, it's getting marked off now.

LAURA: Sweet. I'm going to clean that shit out,
pour it in.

TALIESIN: The interior of that bag looks like the
Pirates of the Caribbean ride.

It's a little weird in there.

MATT: It is a silver and pewter chalice that
contains a number of multi-colored gems embedded

along the sides, going to the base.

LAURA: This is gorgeous.

MATT: Lil' Jon would be proud. It's beautiful.

LAURA: Taryon. You drink out of this one.

SAM: That drink?

LAURA: Yeah, you're the one that bought him the
drink. Look like you're drinking it, too.

SAM: All right. Pinky out.

LAURA: How is it? Do you like it?

SAM: I love it. (whispers) It's terrible.

LAURA: I know.

SAM: I'll just laugh, way too loud. (laughs) And
then she said to me, that's not armor!

MATT: Another 20 or so minutes pass in the
tavern.

MATT: Some folks have entered since then, some
have left. The patrons that are here don't seem to

be-- there isn't a lot of switching in and out.
Seems like most of the folks here come here fairly

often at the end of the day, whether to go about
their business or to unwind. But no one seems to

be approaching you, no one's crossing your path.

MARISHA: I'm so bored.

LAURA: Can I go over and talk to Wence one more
time?

MATT: Sure. You catch his attention. He comes back
to the table as you step up and start in his

direction, he goes, "Hey. Another round, eh?"

LAURA: Actually, no. I give him five gold.

MATT: "All right. You want another one?"

LAURA: No, I'd rather not. No, I was just
wondering, do you know how long Korshad usually

hangs out here every night?

MATT: "Varies. Easily probably another hour or
so."

LAURA: Always with the same company, or different
people?

MATT: "Varies. They've been here most of the
afternoon."

LAURA: Oh, wow. Would you mind going over to him
and just letting him know that the gentleman who

bought him the drink would love a moment of his
time.

MATT: "Oh, all right."

LAURA: Taryon Darrington. He needs to know the
name.

MATT: "Okay. I will." He looks at the gold and
goes, "All right. I will."

LAURA: No rush. But make sure it happens.

MATT: You see he noticeably gets a little nervous.
Walks over. Do you go back to your table to join

your compatriots? Okay. As you're watching, he
actually has to psych himself up. He approaches

and then turns around and stops for a second, and
goes up to the table again and stops himself and

gets the gumption up this time and goes to the
table. And you see him talking to Korshad, who at

this point has his hand on the tip of the drink,
glances up at him. Looks over at the table again.

LAURA: I walk over and put my hand on Taryon's
shoulder and keep eye-contact with Korshad.

MATT: You see a smile creep slowly across
Korshad's face. Puts his hand up and immediately

you can watch as Wence, who's in the middle of
talking and expressing this goes, "Yes." And

quickly darts away. Korshad gives a point to the
rest of the guys and you watch his lips say,

"Excuse me a moment." He stands up.

SAM: Make some room. Grog, leave!

MARISHA: I scoot with Grog.

TRAVIS: We get up. I get up.

MARISHA: I get up with Grog, too. Oh, I have to
pee. Do you want to go pee?

MATT: As Korshad's walking across the room, Vax,
you do watch as all the individuals that are on

the upper platform all watch him go through the
room and are now seeing the table and where they

are standing. The attention is very strongly on
what is about to transpire.

LIAM: So far just eyes, though?

MARISHA: Yeah, I start paying attention to the
room as well, with Grog.

LIAM: Grand Poobah, here.

LAURA: You said that over the earring?

LIAM: That was Liam.

LAURA: Okay.

MATT: Korshad walks his way over to the table and
you can see, as he walks through, occasionally

somebody at a nearby table will stop and watch him
him. Very quickly to you, you get the sense that

he's definitely one of the more powerful figures
that seems to come in and out of this

establishment. He approaches the edge of the
table, still holding the cup from the upper lip.

There's like a lip at the very edge that he keeps
clasped with his fingers as it drifts there in

front of him, and he occasionally sips from it
that way as he walks towards you. Comes up to the

edge of the table. "Do you mind if I sit here?"

LAURA: Oh please, join us.

MATT: He sits down and places the cup on the
table. (muffled) "So."

(laughter)

MATT: "My man Wence tells me that you are
requesting my presence."

LAURA: Yes. For the sake of this. I'm going to
move my hands but just know my hands are here the

whole time. Okay?

MATT: Okay.

(laughter)

LAURA: I'm sure you're familiar with Taryon here.

SAM: Taryon Darrington, of the Darrington family.

MATT: I have not had the pleasure, but I know of
you.

LAURA: And you are familiar with his father as
well?

MATT: "Quite."

LAURA: We've heard tell of recent situations with
his family and you.

MATT: "And?"

LAURA: And we were hoping we could come to an
agreement.

MATT: "What agreement do you have proposed?"

LAURA: Well, I don't know if you've heard of Vox
Machina?

MATT: "We trade in a great many things. Information
being one. And I am well aware of who you are."

LAURA: And I'm well aware that someone like you
could find a good use for someone like us.

MATT: "Are you offering your services?"

LAURA: Potentially. If it could help clear the
Darrington name.

MATT: (sighs) "You are not wrong. I, myself, am
the keeper of the deeds. I consider the Darrington

"estate a long-growing loan that is now ripening.
You see, our community here thrives on a principle

"that other syndicates in Exandria lack. Patience.
I have been letting this stew for a very, very

"long time, so if you wish to make any sort of dent
in this debt,

"your task will have to be equally monumental."

SAM: Well, I can make magical items, if there's
something that you need made or enchanted. We have

other members of the group that do different
things. We have a fine tinkerer, if you need

something made for you. Vex here is an excellent
shot. She could put on an archery show or

something, if that would be something worthwhile
to you. You know, if that will help ease the debt.

I know my family owes you quite a bit of money.

LAURA: 230,000 gold. If we're hearing correctly.

MATT: "You are correct. For the time being."

SAM: And might I inquire, as it is my family's
debt: what is the timetable on that? Will you be

coming to collect anytime soon?

MATT: "I have given your father a date of six
months to pay this debt. If it is not paid, then

"the deeds, as agreed upon many years ago,
transition to my name entirely. I am not going to

"kick your family to the street; I am not a
terrible man.

"But I will be possessing all of your belongings."

SAM: Will they be in any physical danger?

MATT: "No. Not unless they put up a fight."

SAM: Well, I don't know much about you, but I
assume you would much rather have the cash than have to

own property and manage it.

MATT: "Both have their uses."

SAM: All right.

LAURA: So would the Darringtons simply work for
you?

MATT: "The family, I will happily give them time to
find whatever place they can afford to live or

"leave the city entirely. It is not my business.
However, I will be taking over the farms, I will

"be taking over the business, I will be taking over
the estate. Most of the assets within, they will

"become property of the Myriad."

TALIESIN: Well, there. That's where I think we could
come to an arrangement. We're not particularly

invested in the power structure here. We're here
for sentimental reasons. The estate and just

enough property to maintain a modest
comfortability. We don't really care what happens

to the fortune so long as your family's taken
care of.

SAM: Yes, I guess.

TALIESIN: You keep your house, you keep your
things, you keep a little bit

of property to manage.

SAM: Sure.

TALIESIN: What do you think? I mean, they did make
this bed. I'm suggesting to you that maybe it is

not your job to save your family's power and allow
them to keep going as the way they have. But just

to give them enough that even if they-- that they
can continue with reasonable means. Maybe not

necessarily living the life that they were living
before but living far more comfortably.

SAM: Even that would be a step up, but it seems
like we would have to do something in order just

to earn that much.

TALIESIN: Oh, I imagine so. It's just, there's a
difference between saving everything and saving

enough to keep them comfortable.

MATT: "If I am to understand you correctly, you
are willing to offer your service to us?"

TALIESIN: Possibly.

MATT: "And in exchange, we would still be taking
the land-based assets from the Darrington name,

"other than the estate and enough means to live
comfortably."

TALIESIN: And enough income property for them to
be relatively comfortable. Reasonably comfortable.

I'm sure we can take a look at the assets and come
to a very, very reasonable arrangement. And you,

in turn-- well, we could have a discussion about
what that would be worth to you. I have no

interest in making an arrangement that doesn't
please you. We're only here, again, for

sentimental reasons. We are not invested beyond
that.

MATT: Make a persuasion check.

TALIESIN: Please, god. You've been terrible today.
15.

MATT: He goes, "Comfortable living is a relative
thing. To maintain my comfort of living, well,

"your estate is but a drop in the bucket. But, and
I mean no offense--" as he looks about the rest of

you-- "Comfortable living for some of you, well,
that could be as much as my drink would cost."

SAM: My family would require their main property
and all residential rental property.

MATT: "That is not a deal. The residential and the
farm territory is to become mine. I would leave

"for them your estate and enough gold to live a
comparably comfortable lifestyle than living on

"the street for years to come. They could then
strike out on their own, start a new fortune if

"they wish. Perhaps land barony was not their
strong suit. You seem to have found other

"pursuits, maybe you could lead them in a new
path."

LAURA: And past that point, they would be in no
debt to you?

MATT: "Past that point, and a task done in our
favor by the famed Vox Machina. Maybe."

SAM: Would they get to maintain possession of
their personal property? Artwork, statues?

MATT: "Everything that remains within the estate
home itself would be yours to keep.

"The rest is mine."

SAM: And what is this task?

MATT: "Roughly 120 miles east of here lies a
sinkhole. It has swallowed the core of the

"platinum mines of Herethis a few months back. Now,
those mines are a very lucrative point of business

"for my employers. And every time we've sent scouts
to inspect the source of this erosion, none have

"returned. Many very capable and proven men,
unheard again. One of our greatest diviners has

"since spoken of a powerful force within this mine.
Ancient. Birthed improperly. But now seems to grow

"more and more mad. We're at a loss, so we've put
out a contract or two, but nothing has taken a

"bite yet. If you were to go to this mine, find
this entity that has ruined our mining operation

"there, return with proof of its demise, and we
confirm its destruction,

"I will consider our task complete."

TALIESIN: We'll also need some operating capital
for this. It sounds dangerous, so we will take the

job, but we will need to also charge a very
reasonable fee, I think, on top of this.

MATT: "That is entirely understood. And we will
keep track of each fee, and we will deduct it from

"the materials in the Darrington estate."

LAURA: If we take care of this for you, it does
seem like a monumental task.

MATT: "It may not be. But it would seem to be
something of your skill set."

LAURA: From what we've learned, ancient beings
tend to be quite powerful. We would ask that you

don't slander the Darrington name. That when they
stay in their estate, everyone believes they are

still the Darringtons as they have always been.

MATT: "I would agree to that. I have no interests
in your family's public image. I believe that

"damage has been done well enough on your own."

SAM: Yes. Are you sure you don't have a cloak I
could just enchant

and then we could call it square?

MATT: (chuckling) He takes another sip from his
drink. "When all this is said and done, Taryon,

"we'll be in contact. I think there is much
business we could do in the future."

SAM: All right. I suppose we have no choice.

TALIESIN: We do.

LAURA: There's always a choice, dear.

MARISHA: You could marry the girl or we could go
kill an ancient being.

TALIESIN: I'm feeling pretty good about this one.

MARISHA: Yeah!

SAM: All right.

LAURA: Do we need to decide at this moment?

SAM: Seems like we do.

TALIESIN: We will also need all of the information
you have on this creature in the mines, and

if you have anybody who has access to that--

LAURA: The diviner would be wonderful to speak
to.

MATT: "The information I have given you is
what the diviner has found."

SAM: I'm not going to ask you all to risk your
lives for my shitty family, so I will pursue this

matter on my own if I have to.

LAURA: Good. Yeah. You're going to go by
yourself.

SAM: Well, I would hire a couple of people to come
with me, but if you'd like to accompany me, I'd be

okay with that too.

TRAVIS: We could watch you do it. That'd be pretty
funny.

SAM: Well, I mean, you've taught me a lot, so
maybe I could do it.

LAURA: I think you're good.

ASHLEY: You won't find anybody as good as us.

SAM: Of course not.

MARISHA: You are very skilled in hiring talented
mercenaries. That might be your strongest suit.

SAM: I am one for two on that count.

TALIESIN: And we do have another mercenary at our
beck, if we need. That's actually very fair.

You're already one up.

SAM: Should we vote on it then? Grog, do you want
to go kill something big and scary?

TRAVIS: Yes.

SAM: Pike, are you drunk?

ASHLEY: I think you should marry whoever you want.
So that's what I think we should do. Yes. Yea. I

vote yea.

SAM: Twinsies?

LAURA: Always have your back, dear.

SAM: Oh, Vax isn't here. Hey Vax. You want to go
help me save my family by risking our lives in

almost certain death?

LIAM: What does that entail?

SAM: I'll take that as a yes. Keyleth?

MARISHA: Vax says yes, and so do I! Aye!

SAM: Science bro?

TALIESIN: Vex says yes, and I am so in the mood to
kill something.

(laughter)

MARISHA: I think we've all risked our lives for each
other at one point and another, so it's your turn,

Tary. Welcome to the family.

TALIESIN: Cheers. This stuff burns.

MATT: And this whole conversation he's had his
mouth covered, he takes his fingers away from his

mouth and he takes the drink. "Do we have an
accord?" Picks his drink up and clinks it. "Return

"when the deed is done." Slaps the table and stands
up and walks back. And at this point, that you

notice, the tables nearby, everyone's been just
quietly watching in on this. As soon as he leaves

they go back to their business and drinking.

TALIESIN: Everyone, on the count of three, we're
going to stand up very quickly.

MARISHA: Okay.

SAM: Why? Okay.

LIAM: Wait! No, I'm just fucking with you.

LAURA: Three! Let's go!

MATT: As you do that, about half the folks get
startled by it. The music's still going.

LAURA: On the way out, can I grab Wence again, one
last time?

MATT: "Hey."

LAURA: Most of the people here, are they local
patrons or do they come from all over?

MATT: "Most of them are local and come from all
over."

LAURA: Great. Thank you.

MATT: "Sorry."

LAURA: It's all I needed.

MATT: "I just serve the drinks, miss."

TRAVIS: Can I make my way back over to the
players?

MATT: Okay. She's sitting there. (drumming)

TRAVIS: Can I have your name?

MATT: (drumming)

TRAVIS: (louder) Can I have your name?

MATT: As she's still drumming her head slowly
turns around and she goes, "Camilla." (drumming)

TRAVIS: Thank you, and I leave.

MATT: (laughs) All right. With that, we're going
to take a break. Try and get back here in a minute

guys, see this next bit of interesting fun.

MARISHA: To Camilla!

MATT: All right guys, so we have tonight's Wyrmwood
giveaway: this awesome butternut wood and leather

dice tray. Giveaway from our friends at Wyrmwood.
Come on over, jump into the Twitch chat to

enter for the possibility to win this, the word
for the night is Myriad. That is M-Y-R-I-A-D. If

you don't know, look it up on Google.

MARISHA: You'll win it if you spell it right.

MATT: Exactly. Butternut up or shut up with your
Myriad spelling. All right guys, be back here in a

few minutes. See you in a second.

[break]

MATT: Hello, everyone. Welcome back to Critical
Role. Which, timing works out interesting

sometimes. Yeah, welcome back to the game. We had
our break. Going to go ahead and jump in here.

LIAM: I feel cheated. I didn't hear any of that.

SAM: (belches)

LAURA: Nice.

SAM: Thanks.

MATT: As you guys have found your way out of what
seems to be this strange subterranean bar beneath

the Grumpy Lily, you've agreed to, at least for
the time being, to make your way east to this

mine, which currently seems to be under the--
what's it called? The Platinum Mines of

Herethis. Herethis. Which you, Taryon, you
understand. Herethis is a region, a regional

forest area over there. The Herethis Wood. About
120 miles east. You guys decide: What's your best

means of travel? How do you intend to get there?

SAM: We have to misty there, right? Because you
don't know any trees in the area?

MARISHA: I could scry on the area if I knew enough
about it.

TALIESIN: If we misty there we could also camp for
the night.

LAURA: Yeah, we need to camp because we need to
rest and get our shit back.

MARISHA: That's fine. It's 120 miles.

MATT: It's not terribly far, as the mist flies.

MARISHA: Yep. I'm pretty fresh.

TALIESIN: We can misty there, camp for the night.

TRAVIS: (repeatedly, getting deeper) Yeah.

(laughter)

TRAVIS: Character voice.

MATT: Well, I'll go ahead and by the way, because
I totally forgot. We do have a winner in the

chatroom. Besolis8926, you won the giveaway.

LIAM: You got the Nutter Butter box!

MATT: Yeah, Denova will contact you for your
information to get it shipped to you, so

congratulations. All right, so. What are you
thinking about for travel? You're just doing the

Wind Walk?

MARISHA: All right, before we leave, is there any
type of research we should potentially do?

TRAVIS: Nope. Headlong.

(laughter)

SAM: I don't know what we'd be researching. The
guy who sent us on the mission doesn't even know

what it is.

LIAM: It's not even nearby, so it's not like we
could ask people what the mine is like. It's 120

miles away.

TRAVIS: Yep.

LIAM: The mines of "hear this."

LAURA: Herethis.

TRAVIS: This is right up our alley. Like this is
literally what we've

been training for our whole lives.

MARISHA: I mean, just in case there's maybe some
ancient deity that rules over the forest of

Herethis and some sort of goddess? Fuck it, let's
go.

LAURA: I mean, do we know anything? Have we ever
heard about the woods of Herethis or the Platinum

Mines of Herethis?

MATT: You guys haven't. You have. They're woods
that lead into this small rocky-- it's almost too

small to be a mountain range and more just large,
rocky hills. But there's no historical

significance to the location that you know of. Go
ahead and make a history check.

TRAVIS: Roll high.

TALIESIN: That'll do.

SAM: Oh yeah! 21.

MATT: 21. You do know a number of the large-scale
battles that took place towards the end of the Age

of Arcanum took place on Wildmount. In fact,
Zorhaus, the other kingdom that we were discussing

before is largely a badlands, barren landscape
because that was where the final battle between

the Betrayer Gods and the Prime Deities took
place. And the sheer volume of, the sheer

intensity of that battle laid waste to the
landscape there, so you have the Dwendalian Empire

and the whole western side of Wildmount, which is
fairly lush and functional, then towards the

Zorhaus Kingdom is, and that whole eastern side of
the continent, a lot of it is just barren,

cracked, destroyed. But you do know that Herethis,
the name, at least, stems from a hero that fell in

a battle long ago. You can't recall the specific
details of it, but there is some significance to

the title or at least the location there to
something ancient and old. May have to deal with

this time period of entities battling gods. That's
the best you can make out. The mines are well

known. The Platinum Mines are well known. They're
not well attended. They're not a public space, and

they're definitely under the control of a number
of companies that are shadow corporations under

the control of the Myriad. You can see where the
connection and the necessity for it to be reopened

again is important. Platinum is not a very common
metal.

TRAVIS: Anything we should be worried about?

SAM: Gods attacking us.

TRAVIS: Nope.

MARISHA: Trial run.

LAURA: Oh man. No, but really, that's where the
battles took place, huh? So this ancient being

could be from, potentially--

SAM: Or it could not.

TALIESIN: Whatever it is, it's not leaving the
mine.

LIAM: We're running off on a lark, but we've raked
ourselves in the faces before.

LAURA: Yeah! If we die, we die.

SAM: Oh god, I don't want to die.

TALIESIN: Well, no one wants to die.

MARISHA: Well, once again--

LAURA: Don't say it, Keyleth. Do not fucking say
it.

TRAVIS: Don't incant that shit again.

LAURA: Don't say it about all of us and doom us to
your fate.

TRAVIS: Goldfish.

MARISHA: Duty.

(laughter)

TRAVIS: Better.

SAM: Before we go, was there something you wanted
to tell the drow woman?

LAURA: Oh shit.

LIAM: If we're talking about what we were talking
about before, I don't think it's a good idea.

TRAVIS: Why?

LIAM: If you want to go and find him, us, and say hi,
that's a different story.

LAURA: I would like to point out that this same
person you are so adamantly protecting from our

scrying or our spying or our finding is the same
person who shit in the middle of a temple so that

he could watch Pike.

LIAM: Well, A) he did that, not us, and B) we were
all very much friends and happy with each other

when he did that, and he is not happy with us.
It's not exactly the same thing, dear. But if you

want to go with me and find him and check
in and say hello, I'd be very happy to do that

with you. But to send the woman who threw our
friend, drugged, over the back of a horse, and

took him off to his family? I don't really want to
send her after Scanlan, to look in on him or

follow him or watch him or anything him. It didn't
sound like his father wanted him dragged back on

the back of a horse, and it happened anyway. She
doesn't seem very trustworthy to me. Yeah, she's

cool. So what?

LAURA: I just realized I have the other half of
the stone. The traveling stone.

MARISHA: That we gave Scanlan.

LAURA: I could pop in on him anytime I want.

TALIESIN: Or he could pop in on you anytime.

MARISHA: But he hasn't.

TRAVIS: If he has it, still.

MARISHA: Yeah, maybe he threw it into the ocean
for all we know.

TRAVIS: Ooh, that would suck because then we'd be
in the ocean.

LAURA: That would be really, really shit if he did
that.

MARISHA: It would be a massively dickish move.

LIAM: That was very smart, Grog.

TRAVIS: Hey.

TALIESIN: Wow, that happened.

TRAVIS: In your face.

LIAM: Oh. Anyway, my point still stands. Once we
wrap up here if you want to go

find him I will go with you.

MARISHA: And do what? Convince him to come back?

LIAM: No.

MARISHA: See if he's okay? Ask him how his year's
been?

LIAM: Yeah.

TRAVIS: What about just a location and she has to
stay unseen? You know, I know Keyleth can scry and

stuff but--

TALIESIN: We could make her walk first into the
mines.

MARISHA: Yeah, you didn't want me to even scry on
him and now we're talking about just popping in on

him? I feel like there's a weird crossing of the
lines.

TRAVIS: Yeah, but that was a year ago. I'm over that
sentiment.

MARISHA: Oh man, Grog.

TRAVIS: Yeah. Yep.

MARISHA: You guilted me very hard on that. You
made me feel kind of shitty.

TRAVIS: This is Grog evolved.

MARISHA: No, you kind of got it right. Just go
with it.

TALIESIN and LAURA: Exalted?

TRAVIS: Absorbed. Yep.

LIAM: You done been woked.

TRAVIS: Woked.

LIAM: So woked.

LAURA: No, but seriously. What are we doing? I
don't think we use that mercenary to walk into a

mine. I'm not sending her to her death.

TALIESIN: I am perfectly content to hold onto that
chit for as long as we need.

LIAM: Save that for a rainy day. We don't need to
punch that ticket now.

SAM: Should we at least ask her to stay in town?
For a to-be-determined mission later?

TRAVIS: Well, I think she needs to keep up her
employment, right?

SAM: We can give her a little money to keep
around, a retainer.

LAURA: No.

SAM: I can give her a little money. I might need
her.

TALIESIN: She was employed. She's reachable
through employment. We can just find out how to

reach her.

TRAVIS: Oh, yeah, that one!

SAM: She might be gone.

TALIESIN: You have to be able to hire her. I'm
sure there's a system.

SAM: We have no idea how she was hired in the
first place.

LAURA: We go ask her how to hire her.

SAM: All right, well then let's do that.

MARISHA: And no one has heard from him at all over
the course of the year?

TRAVIS: Who?

LAURA: Oh. Well, he writes me all the time, but
outside of that.

TRAVIS: What? Really?! Scanlan does?!

MARISHA: She's messing with you.

TRAVIS: That was very mean.

TALIESIN: You promised you'd keep that secret.

LIAM: She has a mean streak.

LAURA: (laughs) I have so many secrets to keep,
dear. So many.

TRAVIS: I'm mad for an (stutters) a long time.

LIAM: I know one of them. When she farts it sounds
like a duck.

LAURA: It really does.

MARISHA: That's kind of cute.

LAURA: We go find-- (laughs)

TALIESIN: You're going to fart awkwardly and we're
going to yell "imposter!"

MATT: All right, so you find K'rynn. She let you know
that she was just around the corner from where the

estate was and let you know where to find her, and
it's like an open tent/lounge area. She's just

currently drinking water and eating a little bit
of dried meat, and as you approach, she stands up.

She still has her illusion on. She still has her
pale skin. You get the sense that drow in general

are not-- they don't have the easiest time walking
through large societal establishments.

"You returned. So what did you need?"

SAM: We have no mission at this moment, but we may
call on you shortly after we return.

MATT: "Very well."

SAM: Can we find you here or will you be gone?

MATT: "I have no interest in staying in this city
in particular.

"I generally prefer to stay around Vashlow."

SAM: Where's that?

MATT: "Vashlow? It's to the west of here. About 25
miles southeast of Port Demali."

TRAVIS: Port Demali.

MATT: "If you wish to contact me, you can send a
missive to Vashlow, or if you have access to a

"practitioner of the arcane arts, perhaps a Sending
would be sufficient."

SAM: Sending, okay.

LAURA: Definitely.

SAM: All right. Well, stand by. We'll call you.
Thank you for your time, and we'll be in touch.

MATT: "Very well. It was just business."

SAM: Sorry about your horse.

MATT: "Eh. Fair trade." She gets up and gathers
her little satchel over the side of her shoulder.

"Until we meet again." She nods and then walks out
into the darkness of the night.

LAURA: Never to be heard from again because we'll
forget that we have that connection.

(laughter)

MATT: All right, so what are you guys doing?

SAM: Let's Misty Step. Let's Wind Walk.

LAURA: Misty Step tonight and then that way we can
recover everything?

TALIESIN: In the morning.

MARISHA: Yeah, what time is it?

MATT: You're in the evening now.

LAURA: Let's Misty Step there--

MATT: Misty Step is a very different spell.

LAURA: Oh, sorry.

LIAM: We go 30 feet.

(laughter)

SAM: We're going to be windtalkers.

MATT: Yes. All right, so you guys go ahead and
transform into your misty forms via the Wind Walk

spell and begin making your way to the east,
towards the Herethis Wood. Travel is pretty rapid.

It's a clear sky. The moon's still pretty-- it's
only been a few days since the last full moon when

you guys had the ritual up at the top of the
mountains with the Trickfoots, so it's very easy

to see the details, especially those of keen
vision. Rather rapidly, you find yourselves to the

outskirts of the Herethis Forest, and after doing
a couple passes overhead, you can see there is a

portion of the forest that is open, and there you
can see there are a couple of stone towers set up.

There appear to be large ropes and cables fastened
at the edges of what looks to be a large circular

ravine, some sort of an entry port, a very large
hole in the ground. And as you approach and get

close you can see that, while there are two standing
towers, there appear to be remnants of two other

towers that have fallen in, and looking at some of
the cables and the way that some of the equipment

is set up, it appears that this sinkhole that he
spoke of that consumed a portion of this entryway,

whether it be a quake or something, a lot of the
structure that was placed around the outside of

the mine has fallen in, and is precariously being
held either dangling over the inside by cable work

or has crumpled somewhere at the bottom of this
abyssal hole you see before you.

MARISHA: What do you mean by--

MATT: When I say abyssal hole, that's just a
descriptive way of saying it is pitch black from

this distance. You cannot see anything past the
top.

SAM: And it's connected to the Abyssal Plane.

MATT: It is actually a doorway to the Abyss. Hey
guys! Orcus tonight!

MARISHA: Finale!

TRAVIS: Do we have any glow sticks that we could
throw in and watch fall?

TALIESIN: Yes, we actually do.

MATT: Have you guys transitioned back to your
physical forms to have this conversation?

MARISHA: Yeah. Well, we can float down.

TALIESIN: If we're doing our little circle, I
would say that a little bit of a distance.

LAURA: Yeah, I don't want to camp right next to
the--

TALIESIN: About half a mile away.

LIAM: I'm looking for cooties around the outside.

MATT: Okay, make a perception check.

LIAM: Cooties.

LAURA: Did you get it?

ASHLEY: No, it's right here.

LIAM: Dang it. 24.

MATT: 24. Okay, you start coasting over the edge, and
you can see there are broken carts and crates. You

can see the remains of what seem to be a couple of
humanoid bodies, mostly picked away to the point

where there's just slightly pinkish bone from
whatever dried bits of muscle or blood that

remain, the rest of the flesh and organs pulled
from or dissolved. You're not sure.

LAURA: I think a Cure Wounds, a light Cure Wounds
would probably help.

SAM: Dead talk?

TALIESIN: They don't talk back, but yeah.

SAM: Let's do that.

TRAVIS: Oh yeah, you can do that!

ASHLEY: We can talk to the dead. I have it.

LAURA: We'll land a little bit away.

TRAVIS: We didn't land yet, right?

LAURA: Let's land a little bit away.

LIAM: Getting some Baldur's Gate vibes here, man.

MATT: So you land about half a mile out, and you
guys transition back to your physical forms. Vax

shares the information and what he spotted.

LAURA: Were the bodies on top or were the bodies
down below?

LIAM: On the edges, right?

MATT: They were on the edges.

MARISHA: And when you mean seared, like acid? Or
like heat?

MATT: Like white and pink bone. Like just whatever
flesh was on there has been picked off.

ASHLEY: Like something was eating them?

TALIESIN: Can we speak to dead?

LAURA: Pike can do that.

TALIESIN: Why don't you two misty there, somebody
start setting up camp for tonight.

LAURA: I'll go with Pike and we can stealth in.

MARISHA: I'll start setting up camp.

TALIESIN: You can still misty. We're still
misty-able. You can fly in, talk to them,

and fly back out.

LAURA: She can't talk to them as mist.

TALIESIN: I mean, land and then--

LAURA: Oh, okay. I'll cast Pass Without a Trace,
anyways, so we'll be stealthy going in.

So I do that.

MATT: All right, so. Is it just you, Pike? Who's
going with you?

LAURA: And me.

LIAM: I'm already standing by the bodies, yeah.

MATT: All right, so you go back to the bodies with
them?

LAURA: Okay, you're still out there?

LIAM: No, I--

MATT: All right, so the three of you are turning
back to mist and making your way back toward the

entrance.

TALIESIN: I'm going to set up the tents.

MATT: Okay. You guys land near the edge of this
crumpled rock and you see where the ground itself

has curled in and collapsed inward, and there are a
number of cables or ropes that go across and

various large structures, the stone towers that
sit at the edge of this opening. You can see

there's tension on these ropes and either the
rope's going to snap at some point as the weather

gets harsher over here, or the rock is going to
crumble in if the ground keeps eroding. You're not

sure if it's done, or if it's a slow crawling
thing. There before you, you see a body. You can

see elements of clothing, torn and dried, crusted
with old blood. You see a boot that's left off to

the side. The foot's been removed, but it looks
like the edge of it's been torn and ripped a bit.

The skeleton's been picked clean.

ASHLEY: Okay. We only see the one body?

MATT: There are three bodies around the whole
exterior, but you've landed next to one.

LIAM: When you said picked clean, do they look
like they've been chewed upon?

MATT: Make an investigation check.

LIAM: It's fine. 18.

MATT: Looking at the bones, you can see signs of
what appear to be scratches or grooves across the

bones... It's interesting. A lot of the bones have
a very smooth texture to them. You're used to

seeing very porous, but it looks like elements of
the bones have melted slightly.

LAURA: Oh, gods.

LIAM: Slimes, jellies. All right.

LAURA: I'm going to get my broom ready. And while
Pike is doing her ritual I'm just going to keep a

hand on her, that if anything happens then I can
just take off with her in tow.

MATT: Okay. Pike, you're casting Speak with Dead?

ASHLEY: Yes.

MATT: All right. It's easy enough for you to cast
it. It's quick. Ritual complete, you go ahead and you

burn some incense.

ASHLEY: Okay, I get three questions.

MATT: And at which point, the skeleton, which is
face down on the ground by the way, the skull

(bone creaking) creaks up and looks over. Like,
turns around and faces you as it reaches. It curls

upward, almost in like an upward dog--

LAURA: Like downward dog? Oh. What's that called?

MATT: Cobra position, but the head's turned
completely around and curled up.

LIAM: Oh, I get down close to it and go (groans) and
I flip it over.

MATT: (rattling thud) It flips over on its back
and the head (bone creaking) turns back

around to its right.

LIAM: Sorry.

MATT: You get five questions.

ASHLEY: Five questions.

MARISHA: Five?

ASHLEY: Good day, sir. It's not a good day for
you. Sorry.

TRAVIS: Wow.

LAURA: It's okay. Good start.

ASHLEY: What happened to you?

MATT: (raspy, strained) "Something in the mines we
found. It hatched. Or woke. And its anger shook

"the halls. I tried to run, but the skittering
beasts got me first."

LAURA: Skittering beasts?

TRAVIS: Godzilla.

LIAM: That's more than one.

LAURA: (whispering) What did the skitterers look
like?

ASHLEY: What did the skittering beasts look like?

LAURA: Oh, in my drink?

LIAM: It flew away.

MARISHA: Yeah, it's a dick.

MATT: (raspy, strained) "Large. Hard carapaces.
Pincers. Many legs."

ASHLEY: (whispering) It's like spiders.

TRAVIS: Umber hulk?

LIAM: Umber hulk with many legs.

MARISHA: That could be a glabrezu, which fucking
killed you the first time. They have pincers.

LAURA: Yeah, but that's really big.

MARISHA: I don't know. Skittering beasts?

ASHLEY: Is there anyone else alive?

LIAM: Did anything work against it?

ASHLEY: Oh, yeah that's a good question. (louder)
Was there anything that you guys could tell of

your knowledge-- did anything seem to damage it or
work against it?

MATT: (grunts) He seems confused about what you're
referring to. The skittering creature or the--

ASHLEY: Oh. The skittering creature or the big
thing?

LAURA: The skittering creatures?

ASHLEY: Both, because we still have--

LIAM: Against them

ASHLEY: Against them! Against the skittering
creatures

MATT: "The skittering creatures, we just ran. I
didn't look to see."

LAURA: That's already three questions.

ASHLEY: Okay. Oh god, this is not--

(whispering)

ASHLEY: How big were the creatures?

MATT: "They were rather large, maybe eight foot
end to end. They burrow, they spit. But they were

"awoken by the smaller one."

ASHLEY: Wait, he said they spit?

LAURA: I didn't hear, something about his spit.
What did he say?

MATT: You gather, what he said was--

(laughing)

MATT: No, the skitterers bite, they spit. But they
were awakened by the smaller one.

MARISHA: The smaller one?

LAURA: What's the smaller one?!

LIAM: What can you tell us of the smaller one?

SAM: They spit. Maybe acid, probably.

LIAM: Yeah, they're smooth, that means they were
just like (slurping noises).

ASHLEY: Is there anything that you can tell us
about the smaller one?

MATT: "It was like a baby, and it cried out and
everything fell around us. I barely made it out,

"but the skitterers found me." (deep exhale) The
enchantment leaves that embodied the skull, falls

to rest, the bones now motionless.

SAM: So it can emit a cry that shakes everything.

ASHLEY: A baby, like a baby?

LIAM: Mandrake?

MATT: I would say, Marisha--

MARISHA: Does it sound like anything we have
encountered? A nature check?

MATT: We'll say a nature check for both you and
Vex.

MARISHA: Would I have an advantage with my little
book?

MATT: Not for this in particular.

LIAM: It will be like the creature back in
Stillben?

LAURA: Yeah, I don't think that's what it is.

LIAM: And we have heard tales of mandrakes, and
they scream.

LAURA: Yeah, did the pincers sound like something
we have fought though, before?

MATT: No, it's not something you've encountered before,
necessarily.

MARISHA: 19?

MATT: 19, okay. And Vex?

LAURA: Nature check?

MATT: Yeah.

LAURA: Do I get advantage because I'm standing in
the woods? Six!

TALIESIN: You know you're standing in the woods.

MATT: You have heard of a creature that does exist
in subterranean and sometimes forested areas,

referred to as an ankheg.

MARISHA: An ankheg?

MATT: An ankheg. They generally tend to snatch
cattle and beasts of burden in the night. They are

large and insect-like. They spit an acidic fluid.
Some of the things this corpse has described makes

you think of that.

LIAM: Isn't that what our bug juice is made out
of?

MATT: You bug juice is made of sandkheg, which is
a desert-based variant of that creature.

LAURA: Oh. I wonder if we could sprinkle it around
us and they won't bother us because we'll smell

like their brethren.

TRAVIS: I ain't wasting that shit!

LAURA: Hey, man, it's an idea.

MARISHA: So they snatch cattle--

SAM: So we should all be cows.

MARISHA: Oh my god, you guys. Perfect
opportunity!

LIAM and MARISHA: Throwback Thursday!

MATT: If only the person who could cast the spell
was in your party anymore. He's elsewhere in the

world right now.

LIAM: That asshole.

SAM: We just talked to him. He was the dead body.

(groaning)

MATT: All right, so what are you guys doing?

SAM: Well, we're going to rest for the night, and
then go in at first light.

LAURA: Yes, we definitely should have a Heroes'
Feast.

MARISHA: Yeah, let's have a Heroes' Feast, which--
okay, hang on, let me check here.

TRAVIS: We don't need it.

MARISHA: I can do a Heroes' Feast.

TALIESIN: Protection from acid would probably be
very--

MARISHA: Okay, but my Wind Walk-- I already Wind
Walked, so I can do a Heroes' Feast at a higher

level. I also want to do a 5th-level Commune with
Nature.

MATT: Okay. 5th-level Commune with Nature.

MARISHA: What should I ask? What should I ask that
we don't already know?

SAM: I mean, is there any nature down there? It's
a mine. It's all rocks.

MARISHA: Well, I can see in a two-, three-mile
radius.

TRAVIS: How deep does the hole go?

MARISHA: I was thinking that.

MATT: Instantly gain knowledge of up to three
facts of your choice about any of the following

subjects as they relate to the area: terrain;
bodies of water; prevalent plants, minerals,

animals, or peoples; powerful celestials, fey,
fiends, elementals, or undead; influence from

other planes of existence; or buildings.

MARISHA: Okay.

MATT: Choose three of those.

MARISHA: First and foremost, influences from other
planes of existence.

MATT: Okay, so as you focus and Commune with
Nature, the plants speak to you in this series of

images and thoughts that essentially get the idea
across to you that there is something planar

involved here, but it's very old and long-dormant,
recently awoken.

MARISHA: Okay. Planar, long dormant.

TALIESIN: Recently awoken.

TRAVIS: If it's a fucking baby ancient dragon I'm
going to be stoked.

MARISHA: Okay, so something planar.

LIAM: Didn't Drez Vina send us to a fetal thing?

MARISHA: Yeah, that was our first fight.

SAM: Oh, we can't do how deep is the mine? No?

MARISHA: No, I can, it's a terrain question, so
terrain. Yeah. How deep does this mine go?

LAURA: Maybe you can ask where the thing is in the
mine.

MARISHA: Is. I think I can, right? Can I sense the
location of where--?

MATT: You can ask whereabouts this thing is.

MARISHA: Yeah.

MATT: Nature tells you this sinkhole goes down for
about a quarter-mile,

and it lies at the very bottom.

LAURA: It's just straight down at the bottom of
it?

TRAVIS: That's 400 meters, y'all.

ASHLEY: So it's like this and then the little baby
thing at the bottom?

MATT: Apparently, yeah. The whole ground just
collapsed inward.

MARISHA: 400 meters and the entity lies at the
bottom.

SAM: We can just jump. We're like gods.

MARISHA: Yeah, we're gods!

TALIESIN: We're golden gods.

MARISHA: It's only a little bit more than 1000
feet.

LAURA: Yeah, then you might survive that one? Only
if you turn into a goldfish and fall onto the

ground. It's fine.

MARISHA: Now I know Looney Tune physics doesn't
work in this world.

LIAM: Always go earth elemental.

LAURA and MARISHA: Always Keyteor.

SAM: So what's our last question?

TRAVIS: Something from another plane. We know it's
400 meters down.

MARISHA: It lies at the bottom.

TALIESIN: How many of these creatures are there?

TRAVIS: Of the crawly ones?

MARISHA: Ankhegs. Can I get a sense of how many
and whereabouts the ankhegs are?

MATT: One of the two.

LAURA: What are ankhegs? Are they fiends?

LIAM: They're beasts, probably. They're big bugs.

LAURA: Aberrations?

MARISHA: How many?

TRAVIS: Yeah, because if there's hundreds, then--

MARISHA: That's a problem.

TALIESIN: Then this is a stealth mission.

MATT: They are monstrosities, and that's what they
look like right there.

ALL: Oh!

TALIESIN: I love Starship Troopers. I'm excited.

LAURA: We're about to fight some big, armored
vaginas.

MARISHA: About how many? Do I know about how many
there are? Sensing their skittering movements

under the surface.

MATT: Using the nature's essence to let you know:
somewhere in the neighborhood of about close to a

hundred. Throughout the network of caves--

MARISHA: Because this is a three-mile radius,
right?

MATT: Yeah, so this is spread out amongst what
would essentially be a subterranean anthill of

these ankhegs.

MARISHA: There's a lot.

TRAVIS: We're going to need a fast exit. He wants
us to take care of what the problem was.

SAM: We've just got to kill the big boss. One
little baby big boss. The boss baby.

LAURA: Did we understand correctly that it's the
baby that cried out is the big monster?

The big boss?

MATT: It seems to be the source of where all this
started.

LAURA: Okay. And that's the thing that woke up the
skitterers?

MATT: Or at least brought them to start attacking
the surface.

LAURA: Okay. I just wanted to make sure it wasn't
like, there's a big boss and then there's

skitterers and then there's also little babies
that cry out.

MATT: You don't know. This is all the information
you have.

ASHLEY: But do we know why the baby woke up? What
woke the baby?

LAURA: No, we don't know what woke up the baby.

ASHLEY: We didn't ask that? Okay.

LAURA: Maybe we should talk to another dead
person.

TRAVIS: Nah.

SAM and TALIESIN: I don't think they'll know.

LAURA: They're not miners.

ASHLEY: They did something in the mine that awoke
it. And we can redo it.

TALIESIN: I think anybody who was there who saw it
probably died at the center of it.

LIAM: Sorry, we're trying to remember the very
first game of D&D we ever played and Keyleth,

twins, Grog were there.

MATT: Yeah, that's right. That was what was
essentially a dead or stillborn deity. A demigod,

essentially, in its own pocket plane.

MARISHA: So does it have anything to do with
this?

MATT: Roll a religion check.

MARISHA: No. I'm bad at this! (groans)

LIAM: I'm religious!

MATT: Yeah, if you want to, whoever's having this
conversation you can make a religion check.

LIAM: Luck of the day. Yes!

LAURA: Natural 20.

MARISHA: Are you serious?

LAURA: No, I haven't rolled. I'm trying to make
myself roll it.

LIAM: I got a 19.

LAURA: (gasps) Oh my god I rolled a natural 20!

MARISHA: Shut up!

TRAVIS: She really did.

LAURA: It's like Run Lola, Run where she's doing
the roulette thing and she's like--

MATT: Okay. You recall a while back that you
battled with that entity, you-- what was it

called? Crysa-Thul.

LAURA: How?

MATT: (sighs) This is all I do with my free time,
guys. Make up shit for fun. But that was not tiny.

That was a very large entity. Like, to the point
where you remember there was a 20-foot-wide well

and a giant fleshy baby arm that slapped out and
crawled it out Akira-style. Everyone kept saying

small on this one, so you don't know if-- maybe
related in some way? But you're not entirely

certain. It doesn't appear to be the same kind of
thing, necessarily.

Not by the descriptor you've heard.

LIAM: Corpse called it a small one, right?

MATT: It called it a small one.

TRAVIS: We're good. We've still got to camp for
the night, right?

LAURA: Yeah. We're camping. But we should camp in
the trees, y'all. Not in the ground, in case the

things come up out.

MATT: Yeah, the thick forest of Herethis surrounds
the mine.

LAURA: Oh man.

MARISHA: Can I Druidcraft some web hammocks?

TALIESIN: I mean you can, I mean we've gone to all
this trouble, but if we want to add to it. I mean,

this is just what we've been doing.

MARISHA: Look, I really like elaborate tree
houses.

TALIESIN: No, I understand. I respect the art
form.

MARISHA: I can have a rope bridge here.

LIAM: Hammock bed.

MATT: We'll say Druidcraft, which is a very
localized and cantrip-based magic, you could, over

the next couple hours craft a single web hammock.

(groaning)

MATT: It's a cantrip, yo!

MARISHA: I'll pass. We'll just sleep with the ones
we have or whatever

LIAM: A third-grade diorama.

MATT: Yeah. This is what it would look like if you
were to build to scale. Okay. So you guys find a

place in the trees? Who's helming finding that
spot? All right. Go ahead and roll an

investigation check.

LAURA: 15?

MATT: Okay.

LAURA: Oh wait! I honestly don't know anymore what
my favored terrain does for me.

MATT: No, this is exactly where to use it because
forest is your favored terrain. This is exactly

the kind of thing it would help with.

LAURA: I always feel like I'm bullshitting it now.
What am I rolling? Investigation?

MATT: Yes.

LAURA: 24.

MATT: 24. You find one massive tree. The trees
here can get pretty big, and there's one thick

tree that the branches are pretty easy to climb,
and up top it branches out and all the various

branches that make up the canopy. It's almost like
this little bowl at the very top, just underneath

where the heavy foliage descends, and it's a
perfect place for you guys to make a camp higher

up off the ground.

LAURA: Hey, this is a place! Let's do it here!

TALIESIN: I'll unload everything.

MATT: All right, you guys make camp. Who's making
first watch?

TRAVIS: Me!

LAURA: All right.

LIAM: Me, too.

ASHLEY: Oh! Heroes' Feast.

LAURA and MARISHA: Heroes' Feast.

MATT: All right. We'll say as a note, this the
last of the chalices you have prepared. If you

want to do any more Heroes' Feasts, you'll have to
specifically go and purchase the chalices or go

look for it in town.

LIAM: Let's do it!

MARISHA: Is this including or not including the
chalice that

Grog gave to Vex earlier to drink out of?

MATT: That chalice, while it looks quite
delightful, is not worth a thousand gold pieces.

TALIESIN: It's from Medieval Times.

MATT: (laughs) It's a little gaudy.

MARISHA: It's got Michael's. Michael's crafts.

MATT: Yeah, every time you drink from it you get
glitter on your hands and you're like, shit.

MARISHA: How do you turn it off? Cover it in
blankets.

LAURA: Yay, Heroes' Feast.

SAM: We're immune to fear?

MATT: You're immune to fear, immune to poison,
and--

LAURA: Advantage on wisdom.

MATT: Marisha, you want to go ahead and roll the
additional hit points for Heroes' Feast?

MARISHA: Yeah 2d10, yeah?

MATT: 2d10, I believe.

LAURA: We're losing our 17?

LIAM: Lose our 17 from the speech?

MATT: You do.

TRAVIS: That's why I didn't take them.

MARISHA: (gasps) Ooh! Wait, yeah! Ooh, that's
amazing! It's a nine and a ten!

MATT: So 19 additional hit points to all of you
guys.

LAURA: If you give us a speech, how long does that
last?

MATT: Temporary hit points last until they go down
or you take a long rest, I believe.

Let me double check.

MARISHA: But this is going to be a long rest?

LAURA: Oh wait, but does that mean we lose our
temporary hit points on the Heroes' Feast?

MATT: Well, no. They're different. The Heroes'
Feast is in addition to your maximum hit points.

Temporary hit points are different. Technically,
those two stack. You're about to lose the

temporary hit points.

MARISHA: But then at the top of the morning, I can
give us another speech.

MATT: Should you be so inclined, yeah.

LAURA: Tight.

MARISHA: Do I have to do it?

TRAVIS: No, you don't. You don't.

MARISHA: Fuck you, Travis. Fuck you.

MATT: You can give the essence of a speech.

MARISHA: Right, I can do an interpretive dance.

TRAVIS: That's better.

TALIESIN: Only if you actually do the interpretive
dance.

ASHLEY: Wait, 19 extra?

LAURA: He's giving you a look.

MARISHA: A laser light show. With fireflies. It's
like in a Disney Imagineer show.

MATT: It's a speech.

MARISHA: All right, well, it's a speech.

MATT: You can give the essence of it, but the idea
here is just you honing

your public speaking skills.

LAURA: You're going to get better at it, Keyleth.

LIAM: It's like public debate in high school.

SAM: Toastmasters.

TALIESIN: I love Toastmasters.

MATT: Temporary hit points. They last until
they're depleted or you finish a long rest. Yes, I

was correct. Cool.

MARISHA: So in the top of the morning.

LAURA and MARISHA: Top o' the mornin'!

MATT: All right. We'll say for the purpose of
brevity, because even at your guys' level if you

did encounter anything in this forest that was
indigenous, you'd splatter it in a round. But you

don't have any issues. Nothing really sees you up
in the branches. You occasionally get caught off

guard by the sound of a nearby (hooting). It's an
owl in the trees. But nothing seems to bother you

during your evening slumber. You complete your
long rest. You still maintain your benefits from

the Heroes' Feast, and as morning comes, Keyleth
gives a rousing speech.

SAM: Just give us a topic.

MATT: You can just describe the topics you talk
about. You don't have to give the actual speech.

MARISHA: That's great, because one can only
bullshit so much in a four-hour fucking game. I

talk about the smell of our breakfast. It's bacon
in the morning. And taste and smell the fleshy

essence of the pork.

TALIESIN: Is bacon what we're fighting for?

MARISHA: No, bacon is definitely worth fighting
for. Bacon is worth fighting for, and when we kill

that celestial baby we will have the godliest
bacon one could ever imagine.

SAM: I do like bacon.

TALIESIN: This is the most Burning Man thing
that's ever happened on this show.

I'm flashing back.

MATT: Keyleth, Voice of the Tempest.

TALIESIN: Bacon. Speech.

MATT: All right, guys. There you go. Take your 17
temporary hit points.

MARISHA: She's not a great talker and has never
been one. Just want to point that out. You guys

all know this.

MATT: No, it's just her level.

LAURA: Just add that to the 19 then?

MATT: No, because the 17, once the 17 goes it's
gone.

LAURA: But the 19 we can heal to?

MATT: It's still your maximum. You can heal to it,
yeah. That is the difference.

TALIESIN: I always imagine occasionally Keyleth
gives a speech that's like what's-his-name from

Animal House.

SAM: Matthew, I'm going to prepare some spells
that I'm going to inject into various coins.

MATT: Yes, what are you doing?

SAM: I'm going to drop another 300 gold and give
Vex another Revivify.

MATT: Okay.

SAM: Grog, you're already a good jumper, right?

TRAVIS: Yeah.

SAM: How far can you jump?

TRAVIS: You gave me a Fly coin.

SAM: No, that's gone forever. That's gone. It
doesn't last forever. It lasts a couple hours.

TRAVIS: Well, that's bullshit. Yeah, I can jump 15
feet vertically or 20 feet horizontally. So not

great. Like three squares.

SAM: I'll give you a Jump coin, so that will
triple your jump.

TRAVIS: Will you sing "Jump" from Van Halen?

SAM: Sure. When you do it. Let's see here. Who
needs things?

ASHLEY: (singing) Jump! For my love.

SAM: Oh no, you guys all cast things now, right?

TALIESIN: Not really, why?

LIAM: T., give me something! Show me some magic.
Give me a doodad.

SAM: Can you turn invisible?

LIAM: I used to be able to, but I--

SAM: You gave away your ring.

LAURA: Kerr bear. Oh no, it wasn't Kerr bear. It
was Tova.

SAM: I'll give you a Blur coin.

LAURA: Don't you already have that with your--

LIAM: That cloak that I gave away?

LAURA: Oh yeah, that one.

MARISHA: That's the one that Kerr bear took.

LIAM and LAURA: That's right.

MATT: Yeah. (laughs) The inventory of the items
you've lost to guests.

LIAM: Lost? Gave away.

MATT: Lost and gave away.

SAM: I'll give good old Percival a Cure Wounds
coin.

MATT: What level?

SAM: Just one.

MATT: Level one. You got it.

TALIESIN: Yeah. It will hopefully not come in
handy.

SAM: And also I'm going to change my Robe of Many
Things to my new Robe of Many Things.

MATT: Okay.

SAM: And that's it.

TALIESIN: A Vest of Several Items now.

MATT: (laughs) The Kigurumi of Useful Trinkets.

LAURA: Oh, hey. Well, no. Maybe would this be a
bad idea?

To shoot an Oracle Arrow down into the bottom?

TALIESIN: I think that's been working out very
well for us. It is pitch black down there,

though, isn't it?

LAURA: Well. We have this method that we used to
do. Light the arrow on fire, and then send it

down. So I can see by the light of the fire on
it.

LIAM: Would that make your actual eyeballs burn?

LAURA: I don't think so.

SAM: Oh! And I'm going to do one more thing. I'm
going to pull out a healing draught bottle, and

give it to-- no, you can heal things.

MARISHA: Yeah, I'm all right.

SAM: You don't need to heal.

TRAVIS: Other people, I normally do.

SAM: I give it to Vax.

TRAVIS: I turn into Nurse Betty almost in every
fight. What are you talking about?

TALIESIN: Yeah, that's actually true.

LAURA: That's true, he does. He does heal people a
lot.

TRAVIS: But that's cool, you give it to somebody
that, you know--

LIAM: Well, he can give it to me. I've got 50
things I can do a turn.

It was what kind of potion?

SAM: A healing draught. It's not a potion; it's a
bottle of healing shit.

LIAM: Oh shit.

SAM: It's 8d8.

ASHLEY and LIAM: 8d8?!

LIAM: I will never give this up. Ever. Thank you.
Thank you, Taryon.

SAM: Sure.

TALIESIN: I think that that's a really good idea,
shooting an arrow down there.

LIAM: I'm going to set the Deathwalker's Ward to
necrotic.

MARISHA: I'll light my hands on fire so that Vex
can light her arrows on fire.

TALIESIN: So when we're ready we've got something
to light the--

LAURA: Wait, should I cast Pass Without a Trace on
us? No, I'm going to do the Oracle Arrow first.

Oh. What if we wake it up when I shoot it down and
things come out?

LIAM: Well, that is a very real possibility.

TALIESIN: Well, then they'll be easier to kill up
here than they will be down there.

MARISHA: They'll be 400 meters down. I could
theoretically drop some awesome Fireballs on their

face, potentially.

LAURA: I like this idea. I'm going to cast Pass
Without a Trace on all of us, just to be safe. So

we can stealth and be quiet. Yeah, but they'll
just keep falling, won't they?

MARISHA: I don't know.

LAURA: How does that work?

MARISHA: That's a weird magic question.

TALIESIN: This is why magic freaks me out.

MATT: What's the question?

MARISHA: If I drop a Fireball, how long it'll
go--

LIAM: Does gravity continue to carry it down?

MATT: Drop a what? A Fireball?

TALIESIN: Fire a Fireball into the abyss. Will it
just eventually stop?

MARISHA: Will it keep going?

MATT: Well, a Fireball is a small bead of magic
energy that has a range. So if it reaches the end

of the range, it has no effect.

TALIESIN: This is why magic's weird.

MARISHA: But I could Keyteor to the bottom.

MATT: You could.

TRAVIS: We're just spoiled for choice.

MATT: You take half bludgeoning damage when you
impact.

MARISHA: Yep, advantages to both.

LIAM: Dropping a great height did not go well for
you.

TRAVIS: Keyleth, did you roll 17 or 19 on your--

MARISHA: I rolled 19, but then you get an
additional 17 because

my weird speech about bacon.

MATT: Bacon points. 17 bacon points.

LAURA: It will make the most glorious bacon!

MATT: To be fair, I've eaten some bacon in my time
that's given me some temporary hit points.

Just saying.

MARISHA: Look, it was inspired, okay?

MATT: Oh, completely.

MARISHA: I'm not wrong.

LIAM: We will not go bacon-less into the night.

MARISHA: Bacon has saved many a people.

LAURA: All right. I'm setting my arrow on fire,
and I'm shooting it down into the pit.

MATT: Okay. Oracle Arrow. You fire it. It's a big
pit. The radius of a small flame on an arrow

doesn't seem to light up the walls. It's not
bright enough, so it just descends and descends,

and the wood is catching and burning, and
eventually it hits the stony, earthy floor at the

bottom (arrow impact) and it clatters and breaks a
little bit. It's burning pretty heavily, and you

glance around the space inside and you can see
what looks like some broken mining equipment on

the ground, jutting out in places. You see what
appears to be some sort of stony platform that is

carved, but mildly forgotten or eroded steps, and
the rest of the arrow burns up

and you lose your vision.

LAURA: That was helpful. Super helpful.

TALIESIN: Worth it. It was worth it. It didn't
cost us anything.

LAURA: That's true. I didn't see the great baby
beast down at the bottom.

TALIESIN: And that's information we didn't have.
And now we know.

Great baby beast is not at the bottom--

LAURA: Potentially. In that small circle.

TALIESIN: It's not at the bottom of the topless
pit.

LAURA: Okay, so we could take the flying carpet down. A
couple of people could fly. We can take the flying

carpet down.

TALIESIN: Two flyers, plus the carpet.

TRAVIS: The circumference of this thing is
massive. The diameter.

MATT: Well, the diameter of the actual hole is
maybe about--

TRAVIS: Football field?

MATT: Not quite that big. I'd say it's about 150,
200 feet across?

TRAVIS: Stay away from the walls.

LAURA: You think? The skitterers are going to come
out of the walls?

TRAVIS: Yeah, do not come anywhere near the
walls.

SAM: When we descend, do we want light to be able
to see? Or we don't want things to see us?

LIAM: Good chance they can see in the dark.

TALIESIN: Let's have the flashlights ready, but
not activated.

MARISHA: I mean, I have a few Daylight spells.

LAURA: It may be good to blind them if they dwell
under the surface.

TRAVIS: You know, if we're not in a rush--
(deeper) if we're not in a rush, it might just be

nice to send a little mini nuke down into the hole
and see what comes out.

TALIESIN: Did your voice just crack?

TRAVIS: Yeah, no, it's like reverse puberty.

TALIESIN: Becoming a man? Okay.

MARISHA: I'm down with that mini nuke. It extends
a lot of our magical ranges, unless I want to

Keyteor down.

TALIESIN: I think it's better, especially-- have
we seen a tree that we can port to in case of an

emergency? Or some sort of object that we can port
to?

MARISHA: There are definitely a lot of trees,
yeah.

TALIESIN: But there will not be a tree down
there.

LAURA and MATT: No.

TALIESIN: Do we have an escape route if we need
it?

LAURA: We have a flying carpet, two brooms, a set
of wings. Up and out.

TALIESIN: Well, all right.

TRAVIS: Just a reminder that I can't ride the
carpet.

LAURA: Yes, you can.

LIAM: It's a big one.

TRAVIS: Is it? Is it bigger than the first one?

TALIESIN: Yeah, it's bigger than the first one.

TRAVIS: So I can get on there with everybody
else?

LAURA: The only people we need to get on it are
Percy and Pike. Everybody else can fly. Unless

Keyleth is out of--

MARISHA: Well, I can Polymorph him.

TALIESIN: How much weight can the carpet take?

ASHLEY: I mean, you could technically just go on
it alone and I could--

LAURA: Hop on the broom.

LIAM: We are versatile as shit.

ASHLEY: Hop on Vax's back.

MATT: Okay, the flying carpet, the one that you
have? 800 pound capacity.

TRAVIS: Okay.

SAM: It's you, right?

TALIESIN: You're 300 pounds, right?

TRAVIS: No, I'm... it's arguable. I'm definitely
over 300.

TALIESIN: Okay, so three of us on that carpet: one
big one, one little one, and a medium.

MATT: You can fit Grog and one other person.

TRAVIS: He's a big bastard.

SAM: We can take someone on a broom.

LAURA: Yeah.

TALIESIN: I'll join you on the broom.

LAURA: All right.

MATT: I think you could probably fit Grog, Percy,
and Pike.

TALIESIN: Yeah, okay then. That solves it.

SAM: Well, then let's descend slowly and quietly?
Is that what we're doing?

MARISHA: Hang on. Before we go, there's a few
things I want to do. Let me double-check-- I don't

want to be a dumbass.

TALIESIN: No, this is very clever. I see what
you're going for.

MARISHA: Hang on. Wait. I might need the book.
Okay, one of the things I want to do is I want to

use my staff to create an air elemental? So I want
to take a minute to use my

Spire to conjure an air elemental.

MATT: Conjure an air elemental.

SAM: By the way, can I just remind everyone, this
whole year I've had one half of a communications

bracelet and someone's been watching us the whole
time.

TRAVIS: What?

SAM: Remember that thing I found?

LAURA: Because you got that down in the fucking
Nine Hells, right?

SAM: Yeah. Someone's watching us. For a year.

TALIESIN: Oh my god, they're right there.

LAURA: That is so crazy.

MARISHA: What?

TRAVIS: Yeah, watching you make fucking blondies.
All right, this channel's boring.

TALIESIN: The blondie channel.

TRAVIS: He's making armor. Ugh.

LIAM: (guttural, growly) I want a blondie so bad!

MARISHA: I'm going to conjure an air elemental,
and then I'm going to go over to Grog and I'm

going to give him a big hug and say, for the next
hour, no one can keep a hold of you. And I'm going

to give him Freedom of Movement.

TRAVIS: What is that?

TALIESIN: Target should now spend five feet of
movement to automatically escape from non-magical

restraints such as manacles or creatures that have
grapple.

MARISHA: You can't be grappled.

TRAVIS: So I just spend five feet of my movement?

MARISHA: You're also unaffected by difficult
terrain. And spells and other magical effects can

neither reduce the target's speed nor cause the
target to be paralyzed or restrained.

TALIESIN: You are parkour.

MARISHA: You're parkour.

TRAVIS: I'm Chevy Chase in Christmas Vacation.

MARISHA: Because I feel like you've been
restrained a lot.

MATT: As you finish the conjuration with the staff
and slam it into the ground at the edge of the

entranceway, you watch as a nearby cloud starts to
swirl and descend, and you hear this cracking

sound as the planar shift between your plane and
the Elemental Plane of Air briefly hiccups open

and then summons forth an air elemental that
(whoosh) rushes down under your control. It is

concentration. Keep that in mind.

MARISHA: Yes.

MATT: All righty.

TALIESIN: Let's go.

TRAVIS: Do it.

MATT: So. Two brooms of flying, magic carpet,
wings.

LAURA and TALIESIN: (singing) And a partridge in a
pear tree.

MATT: And you are...

MARISHA: I know. I'm wondering if I should ahead
and go elemental, but I can't cast. Can I get on

the carpet? Is there room?

MATT: The carpet's full.

TALIESIN: I'll hop on the broom. You hop on the
carpet.

MATT: Okay, we can do that. All right, so you guys
slowly begin to descend down

this heavy, open tunnel.

LAURA: This is just the stupidest. We're sticking
to the middle.

MARISHA: Did you cast Pass Without a Trace?

MATT: Yes. So I would like all you guys to make a
stealth check, please.

TRAVIS: Natural 20.

LAURA: Oh shit! Flying carpet! Ooh, shit, and add
ten, y'all.

TALIESIN: 27.

SAM: 21.

LIAM: I rolled a two, but it's a 37.

ASHLEY: That's ridiculous.

LAURA: 39.

LIAM: Built into the rules, man!

MATT: Yep, reliable rogues, man. That's what
rogues are good at.

MARISHA: 37.

ASHLEY: 28!

TRAVIS: 30.

MATT: 30, okay! As you guys all descend, you get
about halfway down the tunnel, and you can hear

this occasional echo (clicking). And for those of
you that have Darkvision, you look off to the side

and you see there are these small openings, these
tunnels in the sides, and occasionally you see a

large insect-like creature skitter out (clicking)
and then into another hole. None seem to see or

notice your presence. You continue delving deeper
and deeper and deeper. Looking up above, you can

see the slowly vanishing circle of daylight above
you, and as you continue further and further down,

those of you with Darkvision, you begin to see a
floor begin to approach.

SAM: Don't land?

LAURA: Don't land.

SAM: Do we need light?

TRAVIS: No, not yet. I halt the carpet 20 feet off
the ground.

MATT: Okay. You halt the carpet.

LAURA: And we're whispering. We're whispering, but
we're not whispering so that people can hear.

We're definitely whispering over--

ASHLEY: Can we see any little creature in the
middle of anything?

MATT: Make a perception check.

LAURA: Can I look, too?

SAM: I have some sort of a cloak over my helm,
since it emits light always.

MATT: Okay. It doesn't block all the light because
it's the Helm of Brilliance. As you guys are being

somewhat stealthy going down here, Taryon is still
a slight beacon of fire. His helmet just emits a

glow at all times.

TRAVIS: Cool. Because insects don't love lights in
the dark.

MARISHA: I know.

ASHLEY: 25 for perception.

LAURA: 22.

MATT: Okay. You glance about and you can see this
opening at the bottom. There's some warping to the

earth here. It's one large chamber that's almost
peanut-shaped, it pinches in the center and closes

around, and there's a small tunnel that leads off
and then closes at the end. It appears to be what

may have been some sort of mine shaft that has
then collapsed on the opposite side, but the

center here looks like there's some fallen barrels
and chest pieces, and there are pieces of rods and

rope and cords strewn about. And there's this
ancient stone platform that rises up in the

center, and what appears to be some sort of a
small recess in the stonework there. It looks like

it's the size of a football carved downward.

SAM: I was wrong. It only emits light when there's
undead around.

MATT: Oh.

LAURA: Is it emitting light? Is it like an orc?

MATT: It is currently not emitting light.

LAURA: Should we just nuke it? Should we just nuke
that thing?

TRAVIS: The ancient platform? No, don't do that.

LAURA: Oh, it was like a coffin. Does it look like
a coffin?

MATT: You could probably get closer.

TALIESIN: Let's get a little closer.

LAURA: A teeny bit.

MATT: Okay. Because you're a ways from it and you
have no light down here. Even with your

Darkvision, you can make out some details. The
closer you get, you see a number of small carvings

in what looks like some sort of language that I
don't believe you understand.

TALIESIN: Celestial?

MATT: You don't see it. It's pitch-black for you,
Mr. Human.

LAURA: Abyssal? Draconic?

MATT: Nope.

MARISHA: Primordial?

MATT: Nope.

TRAVIS: Common.

MATT: Nope!

TALIESIN: That would be amazing.

ASHLEY: Dwarvish. Gnomish.

MATT: Nope.

TRAVIS: Giant?

LAURA: Yeah, they're human. They can't see shit.

MATT: The humans are sitting there in pitch black,
seeing this tiny little bead of light above and

just hoping that someone's going to give them some
indicator.

LAURA: Should we cast some light down here?

SAM: Sure. We said that we had prepared our
flashlights before, didn't we?

TALIESIN: Oh, we have that low-light version! We
have the red-light version of it.

SAM: Yes, we do. I'm going to mark off two of
these.

LIAM: I can get around very fast. Why don't I go
look?

SAM: You want to borrow a flashlight?

LIAM: I have a flashlight.

TALIESIN: You don't speak Celestial.

MARISHA: I can also just cast Daylight, by the
by.

SAM: Well, that's what we have going in our
flashlights, are Daylight spells.

TALIESIN: Except they're lensed and contained.

MATT: It's contained, but it's still a single
beam.

TALIESIN: A beam of red light.

MATT: So you go ahead and get close on the broom.

TALIESIN: And just start to see if I can make out
what it is.

MATT: Right. You open up the hood of the light,
and it immediately beams this stark red beam down

on this portion, and you look at it. It is
Celestial.

TALIESIN: What does it say?

MATT: It appears to be runes of gestation and
protection. It speaks of a seed, a guardian for

ages to come: Symphior.

ALL: Symphior.

TALIESIN: It's an incubator. This isn't a coffin.
It hatched.

ASHLEY: So this is the opening of-- this is where
it was.

LIAM: Is it a guard cherub?

MATT: You notice as this pale white light begins
to slowly appear a little ways ahead of you in the

other side of the chamber. This light is emanating
from some--

TALIESIN: I snuff. The second.

LAURA: And we back away from the thing.

MATT: You guys begin to drift back on the carpet,
and you see this beacon of light hovering maybe

ten feet up off the ground, about the same height
that you guys were to the platform. And you see

there what appears to be a cherub. It's a baby, or
an infant, but it appears to be withered and gray,

and its arms and legs hang limply, and it has
these small, white angel-like wings, but the

feathers are tattered and broken in places, and
the head's lolled back, and as the glow grows from

it, it goes (wheezes, screams) and gives out this
heinous scream that echoes throughout the whole

hall. You can't help but instinctually grab your
ears. I would like you all to make a wisdom saving

throw, please.

LAURA: Advantage on!

MATT: Which, actually, you are immune to fear, so
it does not affect you. However, it shakes the

interior and you watch as small stones (thud)
hitting the ground around you. You guys, looking

up above, you can see that this scream is
affecting the structure a little bit. I need you

all to roll initiative.

MARISHA: Oh, that's good!

SAM: Oh, that sucks.

LAURA: Oh shit.

MATT: So we have, up here by the platform.

LIAM: I rolled a 20 on the wisdom save we didn't
need to make, and threw it away, and thought,

"well, I wanted to keep it," and then I rolled
again and I got another natural 20.

MARISHA: Oh shit.

SAM: Whoa, look at that! There's a map.

LAURA: Wow, it's cool-looking! Oh shit, we're
right by the baby.

LIAM: Where's the baby?

MATT: There it is.

LAURA: Oh, that's the baby?

MATT: It's very tiny.

LAURA: Oh, it's a mean baby. I feel like it could
be saved, because it's--

LIAM: When you say saved, do you mean killed?

LAURA: I feel bad because it's a baby.

MATT: All right. Initiatives. 25 to 20, anybody?

LIAM: 25.

MARISHA: Holy shit.

MATT: Who rolled what?

TALIESIN: 30.

MATT: Jesus Christ, Percy.

LIAM: So what did you roll?

TALIESIN: I rolled a 19, and my initiative is 11.

ASHLEY: Jeez.

LIAM: Wow.

TALIESIN: I am going to debate hard how dumb I'm
about to be.

LIAM: The dumbest.

MATT: All right. So 20 to 15.

ASHLEY: 20.

MARISHA: 19.

ASHLEY: What did you get?

LIAM: 25.

ASHLEY: You got a 25, okay.

MATT: All right. 15 to 10?

LAURA: 12.

MATT: Ten to five.

SAM: Oh yeah.

TRAVIS: Eight.

SAM: Six.

MATT: All righty. All right, guys, we're going to
keep this coming at everyone fast, because we're

going to make this happen. All right, first and
foremost, as this creature emerges and you guys

are in your respective places, Percival, you're up
first.

TALIESIN: Where am I?

MATT: You're up here near the top of the platform,
where you saw the recess.

TALIESIN: Goddamn it! Okay, so I'm far away from
that little bugger, aren't I?

MATT: Yeah, it appeared on the opposite side of
this double chamber. It's all up from there.

TALIESIN: Okay. I'm going to hop off the broom.

MATT: Okay. So you hop off of there.

TALIESIN: Actually, no. You're going to move
towards it, I assume?

LAURA: I'm so far below you in the initiative,
though.

TALIESIN: Okay, that's fair.

SAM: It's glowing, right, so we can see it even if
we don't turn on flashlights and things?

MATT: You can see it, yes, but you cannot see the
terrain around you.

TRAVIS: I'm sure we're going to try and talk to
it, right?

SAM: Yeah. Maybe it knows my family's name.

MATT: So Percival, what are you doing?

TALIESIN: I'm going to hop off the broom, activate
my boots and activate my gloves, and start running

through that little choke point, and I'm going to
get as close to and possibly on the wall of that

choke point as humanly possible. The other side of
the choke point.

MATT: Oh, this side? You can get about there. You
don't quite get to the wall.

TALIESIN: Okay. I can get about there?

MATT: You can get further, but currently the
creature is out of your view.

TALIESIN: That's fine. That's as far as I can get
right now. That will be just fine. The gloves are

charged, the boots are on, and I'm heading towards
the wall.

MATT: Okay. That's your turn?

TALIESIN: Yep.

MATT: All right. Vax?

LIAM: Okay. Boots on, I'm going to arc over to ten
feet away from the baby.

MATT: All right. About there?

LIAM: Yeah. Where I am, is it straight up, or am I
covered over here?

MATT: It's straight up. Where you see the walls
are right now, even this is collapsed about here.

In fact, I'd say, to keep it easier, I'll say
that's a collapsed entrance there. But this is all

a straight-up hole in the ground. It slowly
funnels as it gets to the bottom.

LAURA: Whoa.

LIAM: All right. So action, action, bonus action.
I'm going to cast Vow of Enmity on it.

MATT: All righty.

LIAM: Then I'm going to throw Whisper at it.

MATT: All righty.

LIAM: That is a 33 to hit.

MATT: That hits.

LIAM: I'm going to cast Divine Smite on it.

LAURA: Good job! Kill that celestial baby!

LIAM: There's a lot of dice here.

LAURA: Get all the bacon!

LIAM: This is ten, plus psychic damage is 11.
That's not very good. 11 plus Divine Smite is 12,

19, plus sneak attack damage. 19, 21, 26, 28, 29,
34, 36, 38. And there's nothing extra because it's

celestial, not a fiend.

MATT: Correct.

LIAM: All right. So that was bonus action, action,
I'm going to use my action to then just fly away

from the fucking thing, a hundred feet away
diagonally up into the tunnel where I can still

see it, hopefully. I'm hasted.

MATT: Right.

LIAM: Movement was to get there. Bonus action for
Vow of Enmity. Action to attack, and then my

hasted action I can use for dash, hide,
disengage.

MATT: Correct. Dash is your full movement, which
is--

LIAM: 60 normally, 120 feet hasted. I didn't make
these rules or these items. (whoosh)

MATT: Cool.

LIAM: Diagonally up. I'll fly by my sister, how's
that?

MATT: You fly by your sister? Okay. No worries.
That ends your turn. All right. Pike, you're up.

ASHLEY: Okay. I'm going to cast Beacon of Hope.

MATT: Actually, sorry. Before the end of your
turn, it's going to go ahead and use a legendary

action to use a terrain shift.

TRAVIS: But it's just a baby!

LAURA: Oh no! We're in its lair!

MATT: Yep. As you stab the creature, it (gasps).
There's a horrible sucking sound as you dart back.

It looks over in your direction. The wings flutter
once and it brings its arms up, and as it does and

you land next to your sister, you feel the air
around you begin to freeze in cold. This energy's

just (crackling). You feel ice crystals condense
around, and both of you feel the air in your lungs

suddenly begin to freeze up. I need both of you
guys to make constitution saving throws.

LAURA: Thanks for coming right next to me on that
one. Goddamn it.

LIAM: Natural 20.

MATT: Nice!

LAURA: What am I doing, a constitution?

MATT: Constitution saving throw.

LAURA: Nine.

MATT: All righty. 19 points of cold damage to you,
Vex, and that is nine points of cold damage to

you, Vax. And while you manage to pull out of this
space of condensed cold, Vax, your sister,

however, becomes stunned for one round as your
body is frozen and locked in place.

SAM: Do we see any of this happen?

MATT: You watch the air coalesce into this frozen
area, and while the broom is still holding you

aloft, thankfully, you are standing there in place
and the ice falls, clatters, and slams into the

ground below you, sounding like the shattering of
a hundred pieces of crystal across the stonework.

Pike, now it's your turn.

ASHLEY: Okay. I'm going to cast Beacon of Hope.
And for my bonus action, I'm going to pull out a

spiritual weapon of a giant big greatsword.

TRAVIS: Yeah!

LAURA: A giant baby rattle that's directly in
front of it.

TRAVIS: Don't fight, play with this.

MATT: It's a level two spiritual weapon. Where are
you putting the spiritual weapon?

ASHLEY: Right in front of the baby!

MATT: All right. I believe you get to make an
attack with it, then, if you do.

ASHLEY: Yeah.

MATT: All right. So.

ASHLEY: Oh, but I don't know if I want to hurt the
baby. Did you do any damage?

LIAM: Yeah.

MATT: Once again, roll for attack on that.

ASHLEY: Oh, that's not very good.

MATT: So you roll a d20 and add your spell attack
modifier.

ASHLEY: 13.

MATT: 13. (whoosh) It swings, and the creature
flaps out of the way and avoids the blow.

ASHLEY: Stupid piece of dice crap.

MATT: Are you going to move or stay where you
are?

LAURA: Oh yeah! I'm resistant to cold, Travis just
reminded me! I have cold resistance because of my

Vorugal armor.

MATT: You do.

LAURA: Does that mean I roll again for--

MATT: No, you take half the damage, but you're
still stunned.

LAURA: Oh, okay. So that was 17?

MATT: You would take nine damage instead of the
19.

LIAM: Nine instead of 18 is what you would've
taken for it.

LAURA: Okay, so add nine back.

MATT: So do you want to move with your turn?

ASHLEY: No, I'm going to stay.

MATT: Okay.

ASHLEY: I'm going to stay. Because we're on the
carpet, right? Grog, Percy, and I on the carpet?

TALIESIN: I'm not on the carpet.

ASHLEY: You're not on the carpet anymore? Oh, the
three of us. I'm going to stay on the carpet.

TALIESIN: You can move the carpet forward,
though.

LAURA: Did Beacon of Hope get everybody?

MATT: Beacon of Hope. The range on that is 30
feet. 30-foot range gets everybody

except for the elemental.

MARISHA: That's cool.

TALIESIN: What do we get?

MATT: Beacon of Hope, you have advantage on Wisdom
saving throws, death saving throws, and you regain

the max number of hit points possible from any
healing.

MARISHA: Sick.

MATT: All righty. That end your turn?

ASHLEY: Yes.

LAURA: Death saving throw is huge. And healing is
huge.

MATT: At the end of your turn, the creature goes
(raspy breathing) and you watch as the ground

right beneath the carpet explodes. It peels back
as molten lava suddenly begins to spill up in a

column beneath you, splattering up and to the back
and over the top of the carpet. I need everybody

in this cluster, this ten-foot-by-ten-foot
section, to make a dexterity saving throw.

SAM: Not good, but maybe I'm lucky. Oh, am I not
in that? Where am I?

TALIESIN: You're over on the corner.

SAM: I have no idea where I am.

LAURA: You're next to the big white thing.

SAM: I am?

MATT: So Grog, Pike, and Keyleth.

SAM: Oh, well then, never mind.

TRAVIS: Danger sense 18.

MATT: Danger sense 18.

MARISHA: 17.

ASHLEY: Natural 20.

MATT: Natural 20 plus, what's your--

ASHLEY: One! 21!

MATT: Pike's the only one who made it.

ASHLEY: What?

MATT: Pike, you suffer 21 points of fire damage,
halved because of your armor, so you only take

ten. Ten points of fire damage.

ASHLEY: Okay.

MATT: I need you to go ahead and make a
concentration check on Beacon of Hope.

LAURA: You got this. You got this, Pike.

MATT: Just roll a constitution saving throw.

TRAVIS: Fucking molten lava!

MATT: Keyleth and Grog, you guys both take 42
points of fire damage.

TRAVIS: Oh, it was nice being over 250 for a
little while.

ASHLEY: Fucking fuck.

MATT: The ground below you right now is currently
in flames, and you guys have to stick around that

space there. The open ground is billowing flame
and lava now, and the area around that platform is

searing hot. So what did you roll?

ASHLEY: Five.

MATT: A five with your--

ASHLEY: Yes.

MATT: Yeah. You lose Beacon of Hope. Sorry.

LAURA: What is it? You have to get above half of
the damage you took, is that what it is?

MATT: You have to get above half the damage you
took or ten, whichever is higher.

LAURA: Oh.

TRAVIS: Do we stay on the carpet or are we knocked
off?

MATT: You guys can choose to stay on the carpet.
You pull out of the way, and now the area is just

billowing with lava and flame. Keyleth, it's your
turn.

MARISHA: Okay. I'm going to take and control my
air elemental and send him over.

MATT: All right. You took how much damage? 42?

MARISHA: 42.

MATT: Make a concentration check. Constitution
saving throw.

MARISHA: So I have to get over-- I have advantage
on these.

MATT: Yes. You have to get over a 21.

SAM: Over a 21!

MATT: A 21 or over.

MARISHA: What's 17 plus four?

SAM: 21.

MATT: 21. You just maintain concentration.

LAURA: Good roll!

MARISHA: Thank you, Gil! All right. So (boom) I
send him over with my staff.

It has 90-feet fly speed.

MATT: 90-feet flying speed? Yeah, he gets over
there easy. Plops on over.

MARISHA: And he's going to go ahead and do a
Whirlwind. The creatures in his space have to make

a DC 13 strength saving throw.

MATT: Okay. Nope. This is not a very strong
creature.

MARISHA: That's what I hoped. They take 3d8 plus
two bludgeoning damage.

MATT: Go ahead and roll the damage on that, yeah.

MARISHA: Oh, that's nasty. 12 plus seven is 19
plus two, so 21. And they are flung up to 20 feet

away from the elemental in a random direction and
knocked prone.

MATT: Random direction, I'll roll for that. Okay.
That's going to fling him 20 feet into the five,

ten, 15, 20 into the wall right there, and prone.

MARISHA: And are knocked prone.

LIAM: Stupid baby.

MARISHA: Do I still have line of sight?

MATT: To it right now, no. You would have to get
off the carpet to go.

MARISHA: Yeah, I'm going to get off the carpet and
walk over just to where I have line of sight.

MATT: Okay. At the top of your turn, by the way,
you suffer eight points of fire damage by the

proximity to the flaming platform there.

MARISHA: Even though my mantle allows me to ignore
the penalties of dangerous weather effects?

MATT: It's not so much a weather effect. It's more
that there's a heaping column of molten rock.

TRAVIS: Your old friend, molten lava.

MATT: Eight points of fire damage. And I need you
to make another concentration check.

SAM: Oh no, another concentration check!

MARISHA: I'm a warcaster, though, man! Because
that's eight, so I just have

to get over a ten, right?

MATT: Yeah.

LAURA: What is this considered, Underdark, or a
dungeon?

MARISHA: Rolled a 13.

MATT: This is considered subterranean, not
Underdark. Cavern. All right, so you've done that.

What do you want to do, Keyleth? You're over
here.

MARISHA: Okay. Can I move over to where I have
line of sight?

MATT: Yeah, so you leap over and you get line of
sight on him right there.

MARISHA: Okay, can I do Blight?

MATT: Sure. What's the DC on that?

MARISHA: I think my spell level, so 20.

MATT: And it's a constitution saving throw, I
believe?

MARISHA: 8d8.

MATT: Six plus ten, so it's a 16.

MARISHA: No, fail.

MATT: Yeah. So roll your 8d8 necrotic damage.

LAURA: Get it!

MATT: Yeah, no. Even with advantage on the save,
it rolled a six and a four.

MARISHA: One, two, three, four. Give me two more.
One more, and another.

TALIESIN: I don't know if I have another.

MARISHA: Give me a d8. Okay.

TALIESIN: And you reroll ones, right?

MARISHA: No, on elementals. Four, five, nine, 14,
plus eight is 22, plus four is 26, plus two is 28.

28 Blight damage.

MATT: Nice. As you reach, it's on the ground. It's
trying to get back up, and its wings are flapping,

and all of a sudden you watch as its gray,
withered skin turns dark black on one half of its

body and it (screech) shrieks out and gives
another scream (hoarse scream) from the ground,

and the area quakes again, and you feel the ground
shimmy a bit. The ground beneath you, as its last

legendary action, begins to give way. Keyleth, I
need you to make a dexterity saving throw.

MARISHA: Fucking lava!

TALIESIN: Didn't you move? Wait, no, you moved,
didn't you?

MATT: Yeah, this is a different area.

MARISHA: That's not bad. 19. No, 18?

MATT: Nope. So as you finish casting this and you
hear it scream, you cover your ears, and suddenly

the ground moves out beneath you. You watch as the
actual floor (whoosh).

MARISHA: I turn to everyone behind me and I go,
aw, fuck!

MATT: As you watch Keyleth plummet into a pit
below. You take eight points of bludgeoning damage

and the ground (whoosh) covers over her.

MARISHA: It's fine.

MATT: Keyleth vanishes. The ground seems to
swallow her up. Keyleth, the entire pit collapses

in on you, and you're currently restrained
underground, and you cannot breathe.

MARISHA: All right.

TALIESIN: That's fixable.

SAM: But can you cast things while you can't
move?

MATT: I need you to make another concentration
check.

MARISHA: On my elemental?

MATT: Yes.

MARISHA: Yeah, 13 plus my constitution, right?

MATT: Yeah.

MARISHA: Yeah, I'm good.

MATT: Okay. That ends your turn, Keyleth?

TRAVIS: Matt, can you point to where the cherub
is?

MATT: I am, because it's his turn. The cherub
creature, this Symphior, begins to fly up off the

ground and make its way back in this direction,
out into the open once more.

LIAM: Keeps everyone from getting a good night's
sleep.

LAURA: He needs a nap.

ASHLEY: He has a dirty diaper. He's mad.

LIAM: It's been a thousand years!

MATT: As it floats upward, it looks over towards
where-- let's see, because all it sees is you two.

You both are still in the flames right there. It's
not worried about the fire at the moment. It sees

you, Taryon, and goes (hoarse wheezing) and lifts
its hands up. I need you to go ahead and make a

dexterity saving throw.

SAM: I'm feeling lucky. Natural 20! Plus one.

MATT: That's great. So you only suffer 11 points
of piercing damage.

SAM: Hey, that's not bad.

MATT: As you leap out of the way, you watch as the
ground suddenly turns into a series of earthlike

spikes underneath, and some pierce you and scratch
you and you roll out of the way. You barely move

off to the side, where now you see this giant,
jutting series of spike-like pillars forcing up

from the ground. All right, that's going to end
that attack, and it's going to use the rest of its

movement to move back (whoosh) over to there in
the corner. That brings us back to Vex.

It's your turn now.

LAURA: Yeah, I'm frozen.

MATT: Yeah, so you're stunned, and that's your
turn.

LAURA: Yay.

MATT: You eventually break the ice off at the end
of your turn, and you're breathing heavily and

trying to get the feeling back in your skin.
That's your go. Grog, you're up.

TRAVIS: What does it take to activate the coin?

SAM: You have to slap it on yourself.

MATT: It's an action.

TRAVIS: Yeah? Just an action?

MATT: Which spell do you have?

TRAVIS: It's the Jump coin, three times my--

MATT: What's the casting time of Jump?

SAM: It's touch.

MATT: What's the casting time of Jump?

SAM: It lasts a minute. It's instantaneous. You
just touch, right?

TALIESIN: No, is it a bonus action?

MATT: So that would be your action to use it on
yourself.

TRAVIS: Oh, damn. It's that whole shit, yo. All
right. (grunts) I'm going to jump! And I would

like to rage as my bonus action. And with my new
Jump coin, I would like to jump with my Boots of

Feral Leaping. It's three times my horizontal jump
speed, which is 20 feet, so 60 feet.

MATT: Okay. You also take seven points of fire
damage at the start of your turn, because you're

by this flame.

TRAVIS: Oh, got it. Nice, that's fine. And can I
jump towards the baby? Actually just to the right

of the-- just over here.

MATT: Over to this side there?

TRAVIS: Yeah, right there.

MATT: Okay, yeah. You run (whoosh, thud) land next
to it.

TRAVIS: Nice. Do I have any movement left?

MATT: With the run and the jump, you have maybe
ten feet.

TRAVIS: Okay. I want to get right up on him.

MATT: Yeah, you're right up on him.

TRAVIS: Never mind. I'm good. Rage, jump, no more
action. Titanstone Knuckles? Next round. Okay.

MATT: You have an action, still.

TRAVIS: Oh, I do?

MATT: Well, no, because you said it's a bonus
action to do the leap? What's it say on that? Just

to do the leap, right? It was the run. You still
have an action.

TRAVIS: I want to hit him.

MATT: Go for it.

TRAVIS: Great weapon master, reckless attack.

MATT: Okay!

TRAVIS: That's a 26.

MATT: 26 with the minus five? Yeah, that hits.

TRAVIS: Nice. 12. Where are you? I should have
gotten this beforehand. Nice! Plus ten. 37.

MATT: All righty. That's your first strike.

TRAVIS: Oh, I get another one!

MATT: You have extra attack, man!

TRAVIS: 11, 24.

MATT: 24 does not hit. It's a tiny size. It's hard
to swing at, and as your axe almost catches it, it

(whoosh) out of the way.

TRAVIS: Okay. Good to know. I whiff. That's it. I
just have the two.

MATT: Yep, that's your turn. At the end of your
turn, because it's reset back to its ground, it's

going to go ahead and look to you in front of it
and go (hoarse breathing).

Make a dexterity check.

TRAVIS: Okay. Saving throw or just dexterity?

MATT: Dexterity saving throw, sorry.

TRAVIS: I get two of those. That's better. 19.

MATT: The ground crumbles beneath you and you
suddenly (whoosh) fall below. You are raging. It

would've been 12 points of bludgeoning damage, but
it becomes six. But you are suddenly buried and

restrained underground.

LIAM: Got that slick stuff on you? Crisco oil?

TRAVIS: But that's my next turn. That happens on
my turn.

TALIESIN: Yeah, you burn five feet of movement to
get out of it.

TRAVIS: Can I get out of it if I'm buried in soil,
though?

MATT: Freedom of Movement. I'll say it doesn't
have--

MARISHA: That's why I cast it on him, man.

TALIESIN: You parkour around the rocks as they try
and--

MATT: Well, he's buried in the ground, regardless.
That's the effect. He didn't avoid the burying. So

I guess you'd just, if you want to use your action
to try to escape, you do so.

LAURA: You could enlarge, maybe. You can enlarge
and come up out of it.

MATT: All right. That ends that go. Taryon, you're
up.

SAM: Me? Oh god. All right. I don't have anything
I can do. I will click my Boots of Speed, making

me faster, and then I will move. Full movement of
60 feet towards him-- or her.

We don't know, do we?

LAURA: Is it wearing a diaper, or is its dangly
bits hanging out?

LIAM: Is a peeper hanging out?

SAM: Is it naked?

MATT: You've got a pretty close look, if you
wanted to take a moment to inspect.

LIAM: It's a boy!

SAM: We're trying to kill this thing, yeah?

TRAVIS: Yeah!

SAM: I guess I'll punch a baby. It's going to
miss, though. That's a slippery baby, right?

MATT: At 60 feet of movement, you're not quite
within melee range of it.

SAM: No, I was going to use my Ring of the Ram.

MATT: Oh, that'll do.

SAM: But I'm probably not going to hit, because
it's got an amazing AC.

LIAM: Got any Luck left?

SAM: Yeah, I do.

TALIESIN: See what happens.

LIAM: Got to do something.

SAM: Is this going to be a long fight? I'll do all
three charges of the Ring of the Ram,

and punch a baby.

MATT: Okay, go ahead and roll for an attack.

SAM: Eight. Not good enough, I'll use Luck. 13
plus nine? 22.

ASHLEY: Wait! Can I War God's Blessing?

MATT: What's the range on War God's Blessing?

ASHLEY: Let's see. 30 feet?

MATT: No, he's out of range for that,
unfortunately. Sorry!

LIAM: I wanted that baby to be punched so bad.

MATT: As you (ring firing), it (whoosh) out of the
way and the fist goes by. Slamming into the wall.

(crash)

TALIESIN: One day, it's going to be epic.

SAM: It worked once.

MATT: It got you a kill. The marid.

LIAM: That little baby just Zatoichi-ed out of the
way.

MATT: Yeah, so you're just like, (ring firing). No
effect. It dodges out of the way. And now you can

see its weird, lifeless white eyes turn towards
you once more.

SAM: Oh, great.

MATT: That end your turn?

SAM: Yep.

MATT: All righty. Let's see here. It's going to go
ahead and use another ability now. As it sees that

you're closed in, it glances over, and you watch
as suddenly, a bunch of stonework just

(rushing noise) up in the center of the area, as now--

MARISHA: Oh, fuck. One of these guys. What? A
wall?

MATT: A giant stone wall suddenly shoots up above
to about 40 feet.

SAM: We got this, guys. Don't worry. Me and Grog
got it. Me and buried-Grog and buried-Keyleth,

we got this.

MARISHA: Wait, you're buried, too?

SAM: No, you are and Grog is.

MARISHA: I'm under the wall, right?

MATT: You're underneath right over here. You're on
the outskirts of the wall.

SAM: It's just me and the baby right now?

MATT: Yeah, you and the baby, and an air
elemental, and a giant sword that's swinging.

MARISHA: Yeah, my air elemental is there.

SAM: Oh, great. I'm fine, then.

MATT: But you lose vision entirely, Pike. Just
(rushing noise) wall's in front of you. Percy,

you're up.

TALIESIN: So is the wall hitting the roof?

MATT: No, the wall would have to go way high. It's
about 40 feet up.

TALIESIN: I'm going to run up to the top of that
wall.

MATT: Your movement will not get you to the top.
Because you only move 30 feet.

TALIESIN: How far will my movement get me?

MATT: It'll get you about there.

ASHLEY: Parkour!

TRAVIS: Like some unmotivated Spider-Man.

TALIESIN: In that case-- oh fuck, I've got nothing
I can do.

MATT: I'll put you right there to remind us, but
you're almost at the top of the wall

at your full movement.

TALIESIN: Well, then I will burn my action to dash
up.

MATT: Okay. You get to the top of the wall, there,
and you can now see it.

TALIESIN: And I assume I can get part of the way
down the wall as well with my action?

MATT: You can get partway down the wall, yeah.

TALIESIN: Yeah, so I just want to start making my
way, I'm going Spider-man.

MATT: So you get about, I'll say, there on the
opposite side.

TALIESIN: That was definitely irritating.

MATT: That's your turn, Percy?

TALIESIN: That, and I'm going to cast Hex on that
little baby. And he has disadvantage on, let's

make it his wisdom checks.

MATT: Okay. All right. At the end of your turn,
Percy. Let's see, it's going to

go ahead and use--

TALIESIN: That's a lot of actions, this creature.

MATT: It's legendary actions. It manipulates the
area around it. Because you are currently standing

on the side there. No, you know what, it's going
to hold off. It's not going to do anything.

Vax, you're up.

TALIESIN: I haven't actually technically attacked
it.

LIAM: I know what I want to do. You tell me what I
can do. First thing I want to do is cast Bless

on-- I grab Vex, cast Bless on us and Pike, I have
a range of 30 feet on it.

MATT: Okay.

LIAM: Is that bonus? No, I don't want to do that.
I don't want to do that. I fly straight at Pike

and I'm going to lift her up.

MATT: Okay, you immediately take eight points of
fire damage by getting close to the flames to grab

her. It's like (fire noises).

LIAM: Sure. And then is it an action to grab and
an action to lift and carry over?

MATT: I'd say it would be an action to grab her
enough, and you're going to move

at half speed with her.

LIAM: Which is still a ton at this point.

MATT: Yeah.

LIAM: And that's all I need is the action to grab
her and movement to go over?

MATT: Action, and your movement there was about
there, I'd say you'll get your action and your

movement will get you to up above the wall.

LIAM: Okay. Action and movement will. All right,
then I will leave her on top of the wall, and I

will use my bonus action to fly within range of
baby, and I should have one action left, yeah?

Action, action, bonus action, hasted.

MATT: Right. Hold on, no. You used an action to
pick up Pike. You brought her up there, you moved,

you have another action and a bonus action. You
have an action and a bonus action. But the extra

action that you have is from your haste, which
means it can be used for either

a melee attack or ranged.

LIAM: Great. So the bonus action I will use to
dash towards baby. And my final, hasted attack

action, I will stay 30 feet away from the baby,
though, in the air, and I will throw Whisper with

my last, hasted action.

MATT: Okay. There you go. Put you down there.

LIAM: And that's a 25, which hits, yeah?

MATT: That hits. That just hits, yeah.

LIAM: One, and can I dump Smite into this?

MATT: If you'd like to, yeah.

LIAM: I would like to. There's nine plus psychic
damage is 16 plus-- 20, 26, and here comes the

sneak attack damage, 26, 27, 29, 30, 33, 37, 43,
47.

MATT: 47? Nice. As you swipe down to (whoosh)
fling Whisper out, it slams right into the chest

of the creature and it impales it off the back
side and there's the burst of divine energy

inside, but you see the divine energy matches its
own, and what looks like a blow that would've

killed the creature, it's like, (raspy inhale).
Turns back towards you, and gives another scream

as the dagger returns to you. End of your turn?

LIAM: That's the end of my turn.

MATT: All right, at the end of your turn, it's
going to use its last legendary action. It's going

to use another cold snap. You feel the air around
you, familiar, (whoosh) condense, and the ice

cling to you. The air in your lungs freezes solid,
it seems. Go ahead and roll a

constitution saving throw.

LIAM: Going to use another Luck. 25.

MATT: 25 will succeed, all right. So you shrug off
the stunned effect, but you do still suffer the

halved damage. 13 points of cold damage. All
righty. Pike, you're up. Top of your turn, you

suffer no damage, because you got out of the fire.
You're at the top of the wall now.

ASHLEY: All right. If I climb down there, it's an
athletics thing?

MATT: Yes.

ASHLEY: Oh, okay. I'll climb down.

MATT: Roll an athletics check. It's 40 feet down.
So that's going to be a long climb.

ASHLEY: Okay.

LAURA: Oh no.

TRAVIS: Oh, is it really? Is it fucking really?

MATT: It's a natural one?

ASHLEY: Yeah.

TRAVIS: Who put her on the top of a 40 foot wall?

LAURA: Just picked her up and dropped her there.

ASHLEY: Wait!

LIAM: She can see and cast spells!

ASHLEY: I have Feather Fall with my shield.

MATT: You do. So you use your reaction to cast
Feather Fall on yourself as you stumble off the

side, and as you plummet about 20 or so of the 40
feet (whoosh, soft impact) and you land unscathed

on the ground.

ASHLEY: Okay. Is that just my action?

MATT: That's your reaction to do that. With the
shield.

ASHLEY: Okay. How close am I to the baby? Can I
get to the baby?

MATT: Not physically. It's over here and you're at
the base of the wall.

LIAM: It's like 50 feet.

ASHLEY: All right.

MATT: You can get within range to it.

ASHLEY: So you know what? I'm going to (sings)
Guiding Bolt the baby!

MATT: Okay, what level?

ASHLEY: Let's do five. 5th-level.

MATT: Oh, shit, okay. Go ahead and roll for an
attack on that. Wait, is Guiding Bolt an attack?

No, is it a saving throw? I think it's a saving
throw, isn't it? I always forget that. No, it's a

ranged spell attack, so you have to roll to hit
it. Go ahead and roll a d20 and add your spell

attack modifier.

ASHLEY: It's not enough I don't think. 19? I will
use Guided Strike.

MATT: Because you can do that! Guided Strike, you
get to add that to your own attack?

ASHLEY: Yep.

TRAVIS: Channel Divinity.

MATT: (laughs) Still checking it. Guided Strike.
Yeah, plus ten to the roll. That'll do it. 29,

boom. Go ahead and roll damage on that.

ASHLEY: How many sixes? Let's see.

MATT: Well it's four levels above that, so it's
8d6 radiant damage.

ASHLEY: I'll get five, six, seven, eight. Okay, so
we've got six, 12. Help me out here, guys.

18. Oh, wow.

LAURA: You rolled a lot of sixes!

ASHLEY: Whoa!

TRAVIS: She rolled six sixes.

MATT: Six sixes?

MARISHA: What do you mean?

LIAM: She rolled a ton of sixes.

ASHLEY: 42.

MATT: 42 points?

TRAVIS: I'm looking at them.

LAURA: They're all sixes.

ASHLEY: We choose to kill this celestial baby not
because it is easy, but because it is hard!

MATT: So as you land gently on the ground after
plummeting head over heels. (thuds, fire blast)

Holding your holy symbol before you, you watch as
this beam of condensed divine energy rockets

across, and this tiny, floating, withered planar
baby (fire blast) gets blasted. You watch as the

wings get pushed back. It's holding itself in
place, but you see the dark shadow outline as the

energy is blasting through it. As it hits, its
wings recoil, and it's still floating there, but

you can see this sparkly outline of divine energy,
because the next attack on it has advantage.

ASHLEY: Do I still have a bonus action?

MATT: You do. Your sword's still up.

ASHLEY: I'll use the spiritual weapon.

MATT: Spiritual weapon, you can move 20 feet as a
bonus action. It moves up and takes a swipe. Go

ahead and roll an attack.

ASHLEY: Oh crap, my boots are stuck together. How
is this happening? Okay.

Yeah, the hook on the top there.

LAURA: That's how she fell off the wall.

ASHLEY: Ooh. That's a 29.

MATT: 29 hits! Yeah, so go ahead and roll the
damage for the spiritual weapon, which is 1d8 plus

five, I think, for you. Whatever your wisdom
modifier is.

ASHLEY: Sorry, guys. I don't know what I'm doing.
Oh, that's not a lot. Seven.

MATT: Seven points of damage. It all helps. All
righty. Keyleth, you're up.

MARISHA: I'm underground, right?

MATT: You're underground, you are restrained, you
are blind. You cannot see anything.

MARISHA: (growls) I'm going to go earth
elemental.

MATT: Okay!

TALIESIN: I'm amazed he didn't already have it out
of the bag.

MATT: And with that ability, you get an
earthglide, and this is a non-issue for you. All

righty, Keyleth. So you are an earth elemental.

TRAVIS: Damn!

MARISHA: Do I have enough movement to earthglide
to them?

MATT: What's your speed?

MARISHA: I think 60, earthglide?

MATT: 60, earthglide? Yeah, totally. You're moving
into melee with the baby?

MARISHA: Okay, can I come up from underground,
grab them, and then beat them into the ground?

MATT: Sure. Go ahead and roll a slam attack.

TALIESIN: Puny god!

MATT: Make two slam attacks, so roll twice. It's
plus eight to attack each time.

MARISHA: That's cocked. Natural 20 on that one,
and a four on a second one, which is 12.

MATT: Yeah, that misses.

MARISHA; Okay, but that one is a natural 20.

MATT: As you reach up out of the ground from
underneath, (impact noise) your fingers clasp

around the celestial baby and (whack) slam it into
the ground as hard as you can. Go ahead and roll

damage on that. 2d8 plus five, so roll the 2d8.

MARISHA: And then you double the 2d8.

MATT: You double whatever you rol for the 2d8 and
then add plus five. Crit that baby. It's our next

t-shirt: Crit that baby!

MARISHA: Six doubled, which is 12, plus five
doubled, which is ten, so that's 22.

MATT: The bonus isn't doubled. Just the dice.

MARISHA: I know. Just the dice is 22, plus five.
So 27.

MATT: That's great. 27 points of damage. (wham)
Slamming onto the ground. As your hand retracts

up, you can see the wings are-- as it starts to
fly up, it (gasps).

MARISHA: And I just want to hold onto it and be
like, yo! Yo, air elemental! And then let my air

elemental come over and do its thing. Double slam
attack.

MATT: Go for it.

MARISHA: Slam attack. No, I'm going to do a multi
attack. Two slam attacks. So 2d8 plus eight, once

again. That's an 18 and a 17. Plus eight.

MATT: 18 and 17 plus eight?

MARISHA: Yeah, so 26 and 25.

MATT: Both hit. Go ahead and roll damage.

MARISHA: Which is 3d8 plus two. So the first one,
oh! Six, seven, eight, plus seven, which is 15.

For the first one, 15 plus two. 17. And then the
second one is eight, plus two fives, which is 18

plus two, so 20.

MATT: Nice.

TALIESIN: And he gets flung in a random
direction?

MATT: No, this was just hitting it. (impacts) All
righty. That's the end of your turn? All right. As

it comes back to the entity's turn, it's looking
really, really rough. And as part of that, it's

going to reach into itself. Its hands push into
its torso, and as it screams, (raspy scream) it

gives out this horrible scream as it tears some of
its chest open, and from the inside, where you

imagine it would be a ribcage, it's this
impossibly bright light that echoes out in a

shockwave, affecting everybody except for Vex,
actually. I need everybody else to make a

constitution saving throw.

TALIESIN: All of us?

MATT: Yes.

SAM: Oh boy. That don't look good.

TALIESIN: We don't have advantage on this, do we?

MATT: Nope!

TALIESIN: I'm going to burn a Resolve.

MARISHA: Constitution: that's part of my physical
stats as being an elemental, correct? It's con,

strength, and dex. Never mind. Yeah.

MATT: So?

SAM: 22.

MATT: 22. That succeeds.

TALIESIN: 17.

MARISHA: 15.

LIAM: 24.

MATT: That succeeds. Pike?

ASHLEY: 11.

MATT: Okay.

TRAVIS: 25.

MATT: Succeeds. Everyone who succeeds, you suffer
48 points of radiant damage.

SAM: Radiant damage?

MATT: Yes.

LIAM: 48 on a success. Whoa.

MATT: If you failed, you took 96 points of radiant
damage.

TALIESIN: Wait, that's magical. I have advantage.
The cloak wouldn't--

MATT: The cloak doesn't say a spell effect?

TALIESIN: Against spells and other magical
effects.

MATT: Technically, because it's not a leveled
spell, it's just a radiant blast, it would not

affect it.

TALIESIN: It wouldn't have given me advantage on
that save?

MATT: No, it wouldn't.

ASHLEY: 96, you said?

MATT: 96 points of radiant damage. So Keyleth, I
need you-- your elemental has gone berserk.

MARISHA: There's no way.

MATT: Aside of rolling a 20. Go for it. Just try.

MARISHA: Unless I roll a nat 20? They just do
their own thing if you fail.

TRAVIS: What do you got to roll, a 20? Percy,
bless that shit.

MATT: Even so, I'm letting you have this
opportunity.

MARISHA: I rolled a 19.

MATT: Nope. So as the Conjure Elemental spell
fails, the control of your elemental shifts, and

now it's aggressively turning its attention
towards you and the rest of your party.

MARISHA: Can I not fade it after this? Oh, I can
drop concentration on it

and then it will go away, right?

MATT: No. That's not how this works.

TRAVIS: Did you just put--

LIAM: A new enemy on the map.

SAM: A new opponent enters.

MARISHA: To be fair, didn't it also get affected
by the blast?

MATT: Yeah, actually. Roll a constitution saving
throw for the air elemental. It's a plus two.

MARISHA: I rolled a 13, plus two, so 15.

MATT: The air elemental is actually destroyed. To
your advantage, strangely.

MARISHA: It only has 90 hit points, so it's fine,
guys! It's fine.

MATT: All right, so the entity looks like it's
barely hanging on, and you see parts of its

internal body falling out from where it tore its
chest open. It's going to use a bonus action to

Misty Step out of this vicinity over to here. It's
going to use its movement to fly high up, almost

trying to escape the cavern now. It's up in that
region right there. We'll say, here. On top of

this. Turn that away.

LAURA: Oh, look how teeny! I can finally see it.

ASHLEY: Above a fountain.

LIAM: It's a faerie dragon.

LAURA: It's so teeny.

MATT: All righty. Vex, you're up.

LAURA: I guess I'll fly up so I can see over the
wall. I have no idea what's going on.

MATT: You fly up and you see everyone below is
wrecked, the ground is charred with some sort of a

radiant blast. You watched it flash over the wall
itself, like a small, rapid recreation of the

intro of Akira. (boom) This big, arcing ball of
white energy.

LAURA: Wow. Can I Hunter's Mark the baby?

MATT: Sure.

LAURA: And then I'm going to try to shoot the baby
with my Blazing Bowstring. That would be a 30. And

I'm going to make it a bramble shot.

MATT: Okay.

LIAM: Ball of vines in the air.

LAURA: DC of 17.

MATT: Strength?

LAURA: Yeah.

MATT: I actually rolled a natural 17.

LAURA: Motherfucker. Okay, well.

MATT: But it still takes the damage.

LAURA: Still 4d8 extra. Well. 17, plus five is 22,
plus eight is 30, plus two is 32, plus 1d6

lightning damage... 35, plus 1d6 for Hunter's Mark
is 40.

MATT: 40, nice! So as it hits, you watch as the
brambles try and wrap around it, but it actually

flies free.

LAURA: Oh wait! Plus the blazing bowstring,
another two fire damage.

MATT: 42 total. You can see more of it's just
falling out of its small, decomposing torso, and

it's trying to fly upward now, towards the light.
It's on the edge.

LAURA: I want to try to do the same thing again.

MATT: Okay, go for it.

LAURA: With a Blazing Bowstring again. 28.

MATT: 28 hits. Roll damage.

LAURA: Okay, bramble shot again, because I get
two, motherfucker! That's ten for my Blazing

Bowstring. Oh, Jesus H. Macy. 19, plus five is 24,
plus eight is 32, 36. Oh my god, 34. 38,

plus ten is 48.

MATT: How do you want to do this?

(cheering)

TRAVIS: Frozen no more! Freeze me at your peril!

LAURA: Be free, little angel baby. We shall feast
tonight! That's so gross.

And I just shoot the baby.

MATT: All right. As you pull back as it's
fluttering up, you take aim and release, and as

the arrow strikes it, you can see, the same way
the dagger hit the baby, it hits it, and throws

it, the sheer force of the arrow against the wall,
and pins it there like it's stapled to the rock.

As it reaches over to try and pull the arrow out,
and it begins to, suddenly the arrow (whoosh)

breaks into a bunch of bramble vines that begin to
wrap around it, and you watch as the tiny baby arm

and wing try and reach out (choking) as it
constricts and twists and slowly constrains it

until you see it (crack) pop and go limp on the
inside of the vines. And as the vines unfurl, what

was physically there is slowly dissipating into a
glitter-like powder. The body dissipating and

falling apart.

LAURA: I mean, it was an evil baby, right?

TRAVIS: Yeah, nobody likes glitter.

MARISHA: Yeah, glitter gets everywhere.

LAURA: Should we get out of here?

TRAVIS: (muffled) I don't mean to be rude!

MARISHA: I run over to Grog. I'm still an
elemental, yeah? I am still an elemental.

Where is he?

MATT: You don't know, actually.

SAM: I saw it. I'll point down.

MARISHA: You point. I earthglide and I find him.

MATT: Okay.

MARISHA: And I can do double damage to structures.
Can I beat him out?

MATT: I'd say you could probably, over time, yeah.
You have enough constitution to be fine.

MARISHA: I don't want to kill him by suffocating.

MATT: No, he's fine. He can hold his breath for
six minutes. He's got a really high constitution,

so you're fine. You slowly pummel the rock out
from his way and pull Grog out from the interior

of the stone floor.

TALIESIN: Yeah, we should head out and bug bomb
the place.

TRAVIS: Don't we need proof?

TALIESIN: Grab the body. Let's go.

SAM: There's no body!

MARISHA: I go over to the glitter and I get some
of my potion bottles from my alchemy to--

Oh, I'm actually good at this. I try and
harvest some, sweep some glitter.

MATT: Okay. So you gather some glitter in.

TALIESIN: Really quick, just look around, is there
anything of value to grab before we run?

MATT: Make an investigation check.

SAM: I'll look, too.

LAURA: While she's doing that, can I just look
over the ground and see

if there's any platinum deposits?

SAM: We could do a quick mining.

MATT: I mean, there are a number of visible edges
of veins.

LIAM: Is there 230,000 gold worth?

SAM: Probably. We could stay here for a couple
months.

MATT: In this whole mine, there's a lot of
platinum, but you have to mine it. And as you guys

are having this moment, you begin to hear the loud
sound of hundreds of large insect-like creatures

climbing their way down the walls.

LAURA: Oh god. Get to the middle and get in the
air.

MARISHA: Okay, so I get everybody in the middle.
Is everyone ready?

TRAVIS: I need help.

TALIESIN: We pulled you out.

MARISHA: What do you mean, you need help?

TRAVIS: I'm on the other side of the 40-foot wall
from the carpet.

MARISHA: I go (boom) and I pull Grog through.

LAURA: No, the carpet. We just got to get the
carpet. I can go down and grab the carpet.

MARISHA: Oh, the carpet. I take a few minutes as
my earth elemental self to beast through...

LAURA: We don't have a few minutes.

MARISHA: I can do double damage to structures.

LAURA: You don't have to do that. I can go get the
carpet. I'm right there.

MARISHA: Oh, okay. Go get the carpet.

MATT: Okay. So you rush over and grab the carpet.
And you guys begin to make

your way back up through.

LAURA: Are we bamfing out or are we flying up?

TALIESIN: I think we're flying up and if we see
anything we'll just take shots at anything that's

rolling around, if anything is visible. Let's just
do damage on our way out.

MARISHA: Oh, we're doing damage as we fly out.

LIAM: Or we could Tree Stride out?

TALIESIN: We can't Tree Stride. There's no trees.

LAURA: Or we can Plane Shift.

MATT: There is a small tree growing out of the
side of the wall from where you killed the

creature, but it's not large enough for that
spell.

LAURA: But still really cool!

MATT: Yeah, it grows and twists out, like a bonsai
curves upward.

LAURA: I hope that it slowly becomes a forest
underground.

TRAVIS: They're going to chop it down as they mine
the platinum.

MATT: All right, so you guys are coasting up
through the shaft?

MARISHA: Oh, are we just riding up?

TRAVIS: Straight up.

MARISHA: Broom and carpet? Broom and carpet.

MATT: Okay. You guys begin heading up through the
center column of this opening. As you're moving

up, are you staying in the darkness?

LAURA: Can you Daylight or something, like up and
out?

MARISHA: I can. Do we need to?

TALIESIN: You know, at this point, it might be.

MARISHA: On the top of my spire I cast Daylight.

MATT: Okay. So (boom) this light now emerges from
this area, and as you can see now through this

cavern around you, there's about a dozen or so of
these large ankheg creatures, about every 30 feet

or so, 40 feet up. You're in the center of-- you
look up and you can see easily the hundred that

you saw earlier have all been drawn to the surface
by the screams of this creature. And as you begin

rocketing up with this Daylight spell, you watch
as some of them start hanging upward in your

direction. You start hearing this sound, (hiss).

MARISHA: Are they attracted to the Daylight?

MATT: They're apparently attracted to your
presence. It is a line shot. I'm going to go ahead

and have, let's see here. Percy and Vex, I need
you guys to both make a

constitution saving throw.

TRAVIS: Oh shit. Oh god, we did not-- pretty sure
you said that last time, before you turned into

Chef Boyardee.

MATT: Sorry, sorry, not constitution. Dexterity,
my apologies.

LAURA: Dexterity saving throw? That is so much
better.

TALIESIN: Should I reroll? Yeah, I'll reroll.

LAURA: Should you reroll?

MATT: Yeah, roll again; it's fine.

LAURA: 27.

TALIESIN: 18.

MATT: Yeah, you both make it. So you both suffer
eight points of acid damage.

TALIESIN: I want to start taking shots as high up
as I can see,

I want to start taking shots at these things.

LAURA: Yeah, I'll do the same thing.

MATT: There are over a hundred. And they take more
than a few shots to go. We'll say you start

picking them off, a few as you go, but you watch
them fall past you. There's just such a mass

number of them. As you guys get up another 40 or
so feet, (spray sound) again. From three different

ones. All right, I need Taryon, Percival, and Vex
again to make dexterity saving throws.

SAM: Natural 20!

MATT and TRAVIS: Nice!

TALIESIN: I'll live with that. 17.

MATT: Okay.

LAURA: 23.

MATT: Okay, six points of acid damage to the three
of you.

SAM: Halved to three for me.

MATT: You make your way up even further. You're
about halfway up this tunnel at this point and now

you're getting to the heavy cluster of these
creatures. At this point, a large cluster of them

begin to spray all across. I need all of you guys
to make two dexterity saving throws. Anybody get

lower than a 13?

TALIESIN: Nope.

ASHLEY and TRAVIS: I did.

MATT: For one?

TRAVIS: For the second one.

MARISHA: Lower than a 13?

MATT: Yeah. That would be all of you except for
Pike and Grog take a total of 14 points of acid

damage. Both of you guys, for the purposes of
this, take 21 points of acid damage.

SAM: You okay there, Pikey-pants?

ASHLEY: Yeah, I'm fine!

TRAVIS: I'm okay.

MATT: As you're shooting and you hear the gunfire
(gunshots) going off, you fire the arrows. More

and more of these ankhegs are falling and
crumbling off. You hear the (screeching) as they

streak past you, plummeting into the darkness
below. Even more so, throwing streams out.

However, their numbers are starting to thin
because you've gone past the thick part of it.

Vax, Pike, and Grog. The three of you guys roll
dexterity saving throws, please.

TRAVIS: 12.

LIAM: 19.

ASHLEY: 18.

TRAVIS: 12.

MATT: All right. Six points of acid damage, six points
of acid damage, 12 points of acid damage.

LAURA: How much further do we have to go up?!

MATT: You guys, with the brooms and the carpet,
it's not super fast. Putting up there again. You

get about three-quarters of the way up.

SAM: What is Pike riding on?

MATT: She's on the carpet.

ASHLEY: I'm on the carpet. I'm okay.

LAURA: You should heal yourself!

ASHLEY: I know.

MARISHA: Can I do a Wind Wall to protect us from
around us?

MATT: Wind Wall is stationary. It might help with
one round of the spray.

MARISHA: Are we doing one more round?

MATT: You'll find out. You don't know.

MARISHA: If we are, I will prep my Wind Wall spell
to encompass us for one more round.

MATT: Okay. As you guys are heading upward, now
you're about three-quarters of the way out. The

numbers are thinning a little bit. They start
spraying once more. You go ahead and create a Wind

Wall that you've been preparing. As you watch,
these jets of extremely acidic burning liquid

shoot toward you, suddenly a column of wind gets
conjured upward from the darkness and deflects the

spray into a mist that is thrown back against the
wall harmlessly. You're almost to the exit, and

you see a handful more towards the very top of
this cavern. Keyleth, Percy, and Pike. Make a

dexterity saving throw, if you can.

SAM: Pikey.

MARISHA: I'm good. 21.

TALIESIN: I'm going to burn a reroll. It's the end
of my resolves!

ASHLEY: Oh! Natural 20.

TALIESIN: Ten.

MATT: Okay, so eight points of acid damage. 16.
Keyleth?

MARISHA: 21.

MATT: All right. That's eight points of acid
damage. You took the--

ASHLEY: Eight.

MATT: The eight, yeah. As you guys just crest out
of the top of the dark column below, you can watch

as the creatures are starting to skitter out from
the edges, but you are far above and a few of them

are spraying, but you're above the range and it's
coasting over and disappearing below. You've now

emerged into the night sky, the moonlight above
you. You're all fairly beaten.

TALIESIN: Is there anything we can throw down
there to really piss them off?

SAM: I'll drop a bead of Firewall.

MARISHA: Yeah, and I can drop a Fireball on
there.

SAM: I'm sorry, a Wall of Fire.

MATT: You're going to throw a Wall of Fire on the
edge of it?

SAM: Yeah.

MARISHA: Yeah, and I'll throw a Fireball. Burn the
place down. Extermination.

TALIESIN: Bug bomb.

TRAVIS: I spit in the hole.

ASHLEY: I was going to see if I could put a Blade
Barrier on top of the hole, so once the fire's in

there, they can't get out.

MATT: What's the radius on Blade Barrier?

ASHLEY: 90 feet.

MATT: Okay, we'll say as you come out the top, you
throw down the Blade Barrier-- what's the radius

of it, though?

ASHLEY: I don't think it says.

MATT: I'll pull it up real fast.

ASHLEY: Oh, it does say.

LAURA: 60 feet in diameter. No! You can make a
straight wall of 100 feet or 60 feet in diameter.

ASHLEY: Yeah, ringed wall up to 60 feet.

MATT: Okay, so you can make a wall around the one
side of it. Not the whole thing.

SAM: Wall of Fire around the other?

MATT: You don't get to get the whole radius, but
between the Wall of Fire and the bladed wall, you

blast the opening there. You coast away, watching
and hearing as dozens of ankhegs that are climbing

up to the top begin to (screeching). Eventually,
they all begin to burrow back into the rock and

stone and vanish. The ones on the surface begin to
burrow below. And a calm stillness comes over the

exterior of the mines. As you all coast up,
hundreds of feet in the air over the forest,

licking your wounds. So you removed the glitter
and you removed--

LAURA: The little coffin.

MATT: The little stone placard. You had to wedge
it out, but you got it up there.

LAURA: Okay.

MATT: And that's where we'll call it for the
night.

TRAVIS: Nice!

MARISHA: That was awesome!

TALIESIN: I'm at 57 hit points. Yay.

TRAVIS: Add 100 to that and that's somewhere
Grog.

TALIESIN: Where were you at? I feared for you,
man.

ASHLEY: 11.

LAURA: Oh my god!

TRAVIS: That cherub was a bitch.

MATT: Aw man. That was also created by the chat.

TRAVIS: Was it?!

LAURA: The baby was created by the chat?!

TRAVIS: Why you do this to us, chat?

TALIESIN: Why you make us kill a baby? That was
great.

LAURA: That was a really cool villain.

MATT: That was a tiny celestial.

LIAM: Like beating up a Kewpie doll.

MATT: Was the prospect of doing something that
attacks via the terrain instead of--

ASHLEY: Was he an evil baby?

LAURA: Yeah, was it evil? Or could we have saved
it?

MATT: The actual title for it is Symphior the
Withered Planetar. It was essentially a celestial

seed that was placed to eventually emerge as a
guardian in a future time, almost a Ragnarok-type

circumstance. But the land around it became
corrupted as it gestated or was held in stasis,

and then was awoken prematurely. And as such,
became this horrible monstrous version of what it

was supposed to be. It was neutral, but it was
dangerous. It seemed pretty far gone. Thank you

guys so much. We'll be back next week with the
battle royale. That'll be fun.

TRAVIS: Everybody kill Keyleth.

LAURA: Yeah. Go for Keyleth to begin with. Try to
kill her.

MARISHA: I am going to be looking at all of my
spells.

TALIESIN: These two have to be the first to go
down.

MARISHA: What? Why?

TALIESIN: Because loot drop.

TRAVIS: Yeah, we've got to get Hunger Games with
this shit. Defend the cornucopia of loot!

MARISHA: I'm going for the machete!

SAM: But Vex, you're my best friend!

LAURA: No, you're my best friend. I won't kill
you.

SAM: Okay! Like, within five minutes.

LIAM: This one shoved my face into lava at the end
of the last battle royale.

MARISHA: I love you! (sizzling)

MATT: It was pretty good.

MARISHA: Then Pike did it to me immediately the
next round. I love you! (sizzling)

MATT: Yeah, it was pretty slick. Exactly.

MARISHA: Yes, it was.

LAURA: Tight.

MATT: Awesome. Thank you so much for
watching. We'll be back next week, Thursday, with

our battle royale. Hope you have a wonderful night
and weekend. And is it Thursday yet? Good night!

[music]