MATT: Hello, and welcome to tonight's episode of
Critical Role, where a bunch of us nerdy-ass voice

actors sit around and play Dungeons and Dragons.
(heavy sigh) Every goddamn week. Anyway! Before we

jump into the craziness of tonight's episode,
let's get through some quick announcements, here!

First and foremost, merch update. Laura, what do
we got?

LAURA: Well, those amazing David Mack posters that
are only on sale-- well, okay, here's the thing.

The signed ones are only available for one more
day; they're going away tomorrow, forever and ever

and ever, amen. After that, the not-signed version
will be available for one more week, and then

those are gone forever and ever, amen. So if you
want them, you should get them. We also have a

bunch of other shirts, like the Scanlan t-shirt,
and the Vox Machina t-shirt, and every other

t-shirt that are so soft and comfy and cozy. And
the Slayer's Cake apron!

MATT: They're shipping soon, right?

LAURA: Those will be shipping soon. Those will be
shipping-- yeah, pretty soon. Pre-orders are still

available right now. With the posters-- I'm going
completely out of order-- with the signed ones,

it's going to take a few extra weeks to ship those
because we all have to sign them. Just be patient.

We love you, and you will get them! The ones that
aren't signed

will get shipped out a little bit faster.

SAM: So one day for those.

LAURA: One more day! (singing) One!

MARISHA: Tell your friends! Tell your wives!

MATT: Perfect. Next update, we have Wednesday Club
for next week.

TALIESIN: Wednesday Club! We're in an interesting
transition point for a lot of shows on Geek and

Sundry, so we thought we'd have a card party. It's
not as sexy as it sounds.

MATT: I disagree, sir!

TALIESIN: Are you in? Are you down?

MATT: Yeah, I am!

TALIESIN: We're opening card packs!

MATT: I'm going to be there for this!

TALIESIN: Matt Mercer is going to join us for the
Wednesday Club. We may have a few other guests.

You want to come?

LAURA: Can we all come and open card packs?

LIAM: Will you also someday have a Pog episode?

TALIESIN: We already did a Pog episode.

LIAM: Shut your mouth!

TALIESIN: We actually made it rain Pogs! It was
great! You can come. We're going to have another

Pog party!

SAM: You'll have lots of time after this,
Liam!

TALIESIN: Since the show is moving to its new
time, 7:00-9:00pm, so we're going to be opening

card packs. Talking about them, being really dumb
and in our pajamas, and it's going to be great.

Definitely Matt, and there's going to be a bunch
of people showing up; it's going to be great!

MATT: That's so much of my childhood, you have no
idea.

LIAM: What kind of cards?

TALIESIN: We're confirmed with some Jim Lee X-Men
Series One. We're confirmed with some Superman vs.

Doomsday cards.

MATT: Any Marvel Masterpiece?

TALIESIN: We're working on Marvel Masterpiece.
Unopened. We've got some Kirby cards, some classic

Avengers cards. We're doing a little bit of
everything. We've got a couple we're working on,

though. Marvel Universe Series One of Three is
what we're really working on.

MATT: I'll talk more about it on the show, but I
have a long history with those cards. All righty!

Thank you, Taliesin! Signal Boost, I believe we
had our recent episode went up this week with our

fantastic Ashley Johnson!

(cheering)

LAURA: It was so good!

MARISHA: Boosting Taliesin!

LIAM: Taliesin, you looked taller in that Signal
Boost.

TALIESIN: I was wearing smaller people on my feet,
so it helped.

MATT: He learned from the last episode, if you
stack them in a trenchcoat.

LIAM: I just thought of four people that fit that
bill and decided not to say any of their names.

ASHLEY: We had been planning for that episode, I
remember talking to Marisha. I was like, I kind of

want to boost Taliesin. We were like, everybody
knows who Taliesin is.

TALIESIN: Over half those facts at the beginning
are actually true.

Even if they've been goosed a bit.

MARISHA: They're peppered in between. The beauty
of that is you're not sure which ones are true and

which ones aren't! They're back and forth. The
bees are true.

TALIESIN: The bees are true.

MATT: Two more people have to die before you
eventually become

the most interesting man in the world.

TALIESIN: One now.

MATT: One now? That's right.

TALIESIN: That's dark, but that's where we are.

LIAM: The guy who's running Canada is very young,
so we're going to have to wait a while.

MATT: Last but not least. Couple things. Talks
Machina, every Tuesday, 7:00pm Pacific Time here

on Twitch and Alpha with our fantastic Brian
Foster, talk about this episode next-- no, not

next week, we're off next week because it's 4th of
July. We'll talk about this episode and next

episode on Talks two weeks from now. We'll see you
then. Today, the Sagas of Sundry: Dread went up.

Which we're super excited about. For those who
were here for International Tabletop day, Ivan van

Norman ran me, Taliesin, Satine Phoenix, Amy
Dallen, Amy Vorpahl through a very intense game of

Dread, all being late 80s, early 90s high school
kids going up to a cabin experience, and it was

awesome. Well, we made a show! It was amazing.

TALIESIN and MARISHA: It's so good!

MATT: It's genuinely one of the coolest
experiences I've ever had as a player in a game.

MARISHA: I feel like we invented a new form of
theater; it's weird.

MATT: If you have the opportunity, it's on Alpha.
If you have Alpha, go check it out. If you don't

have Alpha, there's a 60-day free trial code.
What's the code?

MARISHA: SHIPMATES.

MATT: SHIPMATES.

TALIESIN: Only today, though. Today's the last
day.

MARISHA: Until tomorrow.

MATT: You have until tomorrow to try it out, so if
you're like, "I don't want to pay for Alpha!"

Well, you don't have to for 60 days now! Just put
SHIPMATES in, and you'll be fine.

TALIESIN: This is the first time I've ever said
this out loud: Seriously, go check out Alpha for

this show. It's worth it. It's amazing. Oh my
god!

MARISHA: Adam Lawson was the director. Sean and I
were the producers.

TRAVIS: Is there any nudity?

TALIESIN: Yes, but probably not any you're going
to be happy with. To be fair. I may make a post

later on Twitter tomorrow or something to really
talk about it.

I have a lot of feelings about this show.

LIAM: What's on your mind, Sam?

SAM: Nothing. The power's out at my house! Just
distracted because I just came from my house, and

the power was out, that's all. I'm worried about
my kids. Are they going to have their little fans

on tonight to keep them cool? Are they going to
light candles in their room? I don't know!

TALIESIN: Are they watching Twitch by
candlelight?

SAM: They are definitely watching Twitch.

LAURA: Can they have a pillow fort in the living
room?

SAM: Maybe, if they can find the living room. It's
dark!

TALIESIN: Just hear the sound of a wine aerator in
the background.

SAM: Oh yeah, they have their wine aerator. They
each have their cell phones. They're okay.

(laughter)

SAM: They aerate their milk.

MATT: That would be the worst sound. (bubbling
milk sound) Anyway, that's enough of that,

guys. Anyway. That's the end of our announcements.
And as such,

that brings us to tonight's episode of 
Critical Role.

[music]

MATT: Hello everyone, and welcome back to Critical
Role. Hope you liked our new intro, apparently. I

guess they're having some tech issues trying to
get the regular intro showing tonight. Little

change for the evening. No biggie, mix it up a
little bit. Anyway, so last we left off. Vox

Machina, after discovering that the various siphon
orbs, the one that was beneath Whitestone was one

of many, and apparently were funneling magical
energies from various arcane ley lines that exist

across Exandria into some plane other than the
Prime Material.

Through research and discovery, you found that
this plane was the Shadowfell. Upon traversing

this barrier and dealing with some cultists of the
Whispered One, you discovered that Delilah

Briarwood was still alive, and that there was a city in
the Shadowfell beyond the boundary of these

siphons known as Thar Amphala, an ancient city
that had seen an ancient battle, but much had been

rebuilt and constructed. There, in the center of
the town, was the dark tower called Entropis.

Where, apparently, the Whispered One, Vecna, or
something involved in a ritual was being

completed. You began to make your way through this
city, averting any sort of attention from most of

the denizens in the sky and below. You squashed
heads of a few cultists on the way, masqueraded as

cultists, masqueraded as undead! Found the city
itself shift strangely, using technology of the

threshold crests that Syngorn uses, it transported
itself out of the Shadowfell and somewhere else,

where it began to snow. You made your way to the
central tower, and deciding not to ascend it, took

it to the ground with some Earthquake spells.
However, due to the magical defenses of the tower

top, where the rituals were being completed, it
seems the top of the tower was untouched by the

spells, and lowered itself to the rubble of where
it once stood. You then mustered your forces, rode

up to the top of the lip of what remains of
Entropis and joined in battle against Delilah

Briarwood, a death knight, and the physical form
of Vecna, the Whispered One himself. However, the

battle did not turn in your favor, and in the
process of the battle--

TRAVIS: That's debatable.

LAURA: Is it?

MATT: In some degrees. 
Whether through bad luck or

not fully understanding
the scope of what you were up against, a number of

you fell in battle, with one of them not being
able to be restored, being Vax'ildan, who was

reduced to dust by a Disintegration spell.
Realizing that your fortunes were failing, with

Grog banished to another dimension and only barely
returning in time, you joined hands and Keyleth

attempted to travel you out of the plane to
safety, of which Vecna attempted to stop with a

Counterspell, and Scanlan attempted to stop that
Counterspell with his own Counterspell, like a

bard is wont to do. So you successfully
transported, grabbing the corpse of Delilah

Briarwood, who Percival finished off with a shot
to the head. You found yourselves, last we left

off, emerging deep into a wooded forest in some
unknown location within the Feywild. Upon

arriving, and glancing about, to see that you're
still mostly intact, clutching the

no-longer-living corpse of Delilah behind you.
Vax, not with you,

and Vex, realizing, asked the question:

LAURA: Where's Vax?

SAM: I walk up to her and I set down his armor and
don't say anything.

LAURA: What's this? Where is he?!

SAM: There's nothing left. He was obliterated.

MARISHA: Disintegrated.

LAURA: What?!

MARISHA: I saw it happen, and then I saw it
happen.

LAURA: And we just left him there?!

MARISHA: No, we brought--

TALIESIN: We brought everything we could.

LAURA: Oh god! No!

TALIESIN: I'm so sorry.

LAURA: I was brought back and his soul is just--
where?

MARISHA: That's the ultimate question, isn't it?

LAURA: Can you bring him back?

ASHLEY: I don't know if I can.

TALIESIN: Can you, Keyleth?

MARISHA: I've never done this before.

LAURA: I go over and gather up all of his armor
and start hugging it to myself.

MARISHA: I recently learned a spell that I could
attempt, but it's nothing I've tried before, and

it's expensive, and I'm already terrified of the
fate and the hell that I might have brought him in

his final moments.

TRAVIS: Well, what is it?

MARISHA: I think he saw himself die. I think. I'm
so sorry.

LAURA: What are you talking about?

MARISHA: I cast Foresight on him. And I think
there was a thing for a second. I haven't thought

of those ramifications of something like that
before. I think he was held and there was nothing

he could do. What if that happened? What if he saw
himself die?

TALIESIN: Then it doesn't matter yet, until we
bring him back.

TRAVIS: Only matters what we do next, right?

TALIESIN: Let's bring him back.

TRAVIS: What's this new spell you were talking
about?

MARISHA: I need 25,000 gold pieces worth of
diamonds.

TRAVIS: What?

MARISHA: I need 25--

LAURA: Not just gold, you need diamonds?

TALIESIN: Where are we?

LAURA: I don't have-- I don't have that!

MARISHA: We're in the Feywild.

TALIESIN: We can find it, then.

MATT: As you look around at this point, for the
first time really taking in the surroundings

around you, you find yourself deep in a shaded,
thick wood, where most of the leaves here are wide

and triangular in shape. Where you expect to see
deep greens, instead you see blues and purples.

You see the tips eventually coming to a midnight
blue at the edge. There's a very faint mist that

has gathered across the ground that stands about
knee-height. The ground beneath you seems to have

a somewhat crunchy sponginess to it with each
step, though you cannot see where your feet

actually touch the ground.

SAM: Is it all diamonds?

MATT: It is not all diamonds. You do hear the
ever-present echoing distant hooting of owls.

(owl hooting)

TALIESIN: Well, now we know what to do. We were
too late, and we have seen what we're up against,

and now we need to focus. We can't let it be over
yet. We need to focus.

We're going to find these diamonds.

LAURA: Was it her? Or was it Vecna?

SAM: It--

TALIESIN: Grog? Can you put her in the bag? And I
toss him the body.

MATT: As the body of Delilah Briarwood, the head
still scattered and divided right around the

forehead, this giant cleft of her skull hemisphere
is gone. Whatever matter was once there has loosely

fallen out as she's been dragged from one
location. You do see the left eye, which is not

human, it seems, in appearance. The white is instead
a sickly greenish-yellow, and the pupil is a

cat-like slit of black, surrounded by a thin,
greenish-blue tint. As soon as you look down and

see the face, the eye which just looks upward at
nothing, the dead body still, the eye twitches and

shifts to look at you.

TRAVIS: Oh! (unhappy humming) Her fucking eye is
still moving.

ASHLEY: Should we take it out?

SAM: Yes. It could be Vecna, watching us.

TRAVIS: Does it look reptilian?

LAURA: Can you put it in a bag or something? Cover
it up?

SAM: Wait, can I take a closer look at it and see
if I can, I don't know, identify it somehow?

MATT: Do you have an Identify spell?

SAM: No, but can I just see?

MATT: Make an arcana check.

SAM: Sure. Two! Plus five.

MATT: As you get down close to glance at the
rather disturbingly bloodied face of Delilah

Briarwood, the eye shifts back towards you. The
closer you get, you watch as the thinning slit of

the pupil seems to widen and focus on you. It's an
unsettling presence. As you try and concentrate to

see if there's any immediate signs of whether it
be sigils or arcane marks that would mark it to be

more of a magically enchanted object than an
actual organic eye, nothing comes to mind other

than the fact that it seems to be very intent on
studying you back.

SAM: Can I try to remove it from the ocular
cavity?

MATT: Using your fingers?

SAM: Yeah. My tiny, ocular hands.

MATT: Okay. Go ahead and make an athletics check.

SAM: Nine.

MATT: Okay, you (slurping).

SAM: I can inspire myself, I suppose.

MATT: If you want to. Up to you. How many more
bardic inspirations do you have after the battle?

SAM: Two, right? I didn't Cutting Words anyone.
Those count as inspiration, right?

MATT: Yeah. Your fingers are now knuckle-deep in
Delilah Briarwood's socket.

SAM: I'll inspire myself just to give it a serious
try. That's plus ten, so that's a 19 plus, I

guess, three for Jack of All Trades?

MATT: If you're not trained in it, then yeah.

SAM: 22.

MATT: You begin humming your favorite eye-pulling
song under your breath and with a horrible sucking

sound, you pull the eye from her socket, leaving
this trail of dark black and red viscera that

dangles from it loosely. As you pull it free,
whatever attached the eye to it seems to burn off

and fall, leaving just the circular socket. I also
need you to roll a wisdom saving throw.

SAM: Oh no! Insta-death.

TRAVIS: You're fine.

SAM: No, I'm not. Oh, is this magic?

MATT: It's not a magic spell, I'd say it's a magic
effect, yeah.

SAM: Do I get advantage?

MATT: I'll say, as a gnome, for this, yes, you
would.

SAM: Way better, but still terrible. 12!

LAURA: How bad was your first one?

SAM: A one!

MATT: So you watch as Scanlan pulls this eye out
and looks at it for a second. For you, it's less

of an actual voice, but these images come to your
mind of all the terrible things that have happened

in your life: the loss of your mother, the
near-loss of Kaylie, the loss of your friends,

every person that's ever mattered to you, you've
seen slain before you or heard about. You could

stop that from ever happening again. All the
answers you could have. You would have the power

to prevent any of that from ever happening again.
And it's so simple. It's so simple!

LAURA: Could we smack the eye out of his hand?

MATT: As this is happening, you watch as he's
looking at it and this hand goes up and starts

clawing into his own eye socket.

TALIESIN: I'm going to use every dex I have. I'm
going to slap fucking hard.

MATT: Dex isn't going to help you so much as it's
going to be a strength thing. Go ahead and make an

athletics check. For you, for this, this would be
an acrobatics to try and dodge out of the way.

TALIESIN: Strength check?

MATT: Athletics.

TALIESIN: Oh, athletics, that's better.

MATT: You're trying to slap it out of his grasp.

SAM: 13.

TALIESIN: 10.

MATT: You slap and the hand pulls back a little
bit and he yanks it back. You can see a trail of

blood beginning to pool out of the corner of the
eye.

ASHLEY: Can I try to grab his hand and slap him
across the face?

MATT: Yeah. This is the last chance anybody has to
try and do this or Scanlan loses an eye. We're

going into Event Horizon moment, here. Go ahead
and make an athletics check.

ASHLEY: 27.

MATT: Roll an acrobatics check.

SAM: It's the same thing, so it's 13.

MATT: As his fingers are digging into the socket
and the other eye's just staring at this piercing

circular gaze in his grasp in his right. You see
the blood beginning to trail down his face in two

different places. He's gotten his fingers partway
behind his own eye. You rush up and grab him by

the wrist, put your other hand right at the front
of his face, pushing his nose and cheek up. You

pull it back and you watch as, from behind the
eyelid, his fingers slip out. He's fighting it

with all his might. As you pull back, as soon as
you get it free, with your other hand, you

backhand. You knock the eye out of his other hand, and
it goes (falling noise)

and disappears beneath the mist.

LAURA: Can we see where it landed?

TALIESIN: Yeah, I'm going to follow the eye.

MARISHA: Do not touch it, Percy!

SAM: Can I see?

MATT: The throbbing pain, and you're not able to
focus in this eye at the time. You're effectively

unable to see out of this eye really well until
your next long rest. It's pretty damaged just from

the brief grabbing. You could try to heal him, if
you want. Your mind comes back to you for a

minute. You're like, "What the fuck is wrong with
me?!"

TRAVIS: What were you doing?!

SAM: It was speaking to me.

ASHLEY: What did it say?

SAM: I don't exactly remember, but it had some
really strong arguments.

TRAVIS: Was it telling you to pull your own
fucking eye out?

SAM: I guess, yeah. It was offering me things. It
was telling me it could help. I've never felt that

way before. It was amazing.

TRAVIS: Ew. Where did it go?

MATT: You said you were going to look in the mist
for it?

LAURA: No, I'm not. Just holding onto--

MATT: The remains of Vax.

MARISHA: Keyleth goes over to Vex and curls up
into her.

MATT: 14. As you dive over in the direction of
where you think you saw it go, the mist is thick,

and you start pushing it away, and there is very
dense underbrush and foliage that is gathered here

that created the crunchy floor. Glancing through
and pushing around, there's no sign of the eye.

TALIESIN: I need help finding it. I need help! Be
very careful.

TRAVIS: I come over and start helping him look.

TALIESIN: I've got the flashlight box out, and I'm
going to try

and use this as a container if we find it.

MATT: Okay. You're not using the actual light,
you're using the box? The thickness in the mist

right now, the light would probably hinder your
search than help it.

TALIESIN: Keyleth, can you thin this? We need to
see. Make the mist go away.

MARISHA: What?

TALIESIN: (louder) Can you make the mist go away?

MARISHA: I don't know.

SAM: Can you try?

MARISHA: I half-heartedly do a Gust cantrip while
still sitting next to Vex.

MATT: You watch as some of the mist dissipates and
very quickly begins to roll back. The mist here is

almost aggressive in its need to fill the space.
Like a lot of things in the Feywild, it almost has

its own sense of nature and purpose. It's not
going to let someone push itself back if it wishes

to exist on the forest floor. As you're rushing in
to help, because you've already made the

investigation check and the mist is rolling in,
and based on his inability to find it, you're not

even quite sure where it landed. Make your own
investigation check, but you're at disadvantage.

TRAVIS: Okay. Hey, that's high! That's not.
Three.

MATT: Okay. Over the next three or four minutes,
as you guys pat through and tear roots apart and

sections of the forest floor, there is no sign of
where the eye landed.

ASHLEY: If I were to cast Locate Object, would
that work?

MATT: You can certainly try.

ASHLEY: Okay!

MATT: You go over and grab your holy symbol and
kneel to the ground, focus on whatever this dark

relic is that seems to have plagued you in two
different ways in the past ten minutes. As you

concentrate, you feel the divine light of Sarenrae
come and restore warmth from the center of this

cold forest. You feel the energy flow through you
and the image of her face descending from

above, her mouth opening and she exhales this
breath over you, and as it does, you suddenly can

clarify your visual perception on this object. You
know exactly the direction it is. You start

walking in that direction. You push past Grog and
push past Percival. You find a portion of the

ground and you look, and it's not there, but you
know it's that direction.

ASHLEY: I think I've located it. I can't see it,
but I know what direction it's in.

SAM: Is it beneath the ground? Is it invisible?

ASHLEY: I don't know. So it seems like it's in the
ground or it's been moved.

MATT: Trying to push aside the mist in the area,
and it's all closed in now. The Gust cantrip held

back what it could while you cast the spell.

MARISHA: I seem them moving in that direction, and
once again, poof for them.

MATT: The mist separates again. You look, and you
can see the direction where it would be, and as

you glance over and focus your attention, it looks
like between two of the roots, there's a portion

of fresh dirt.

SAM: It burrowed!

ASHLEY: Okay, can I start digging?

MATT: You start scooping in.

TALIESIN: I have the box out, ready.

MATT: About three inches down, you scoop down and
pull up a big handful of moist dirt and then

there, you watch as some of it falls away. You see
the wet exterior of the greenish-yellow eyeball.

It began to burrow. You see it glancing about. The
eye is flickering around like it's rapidly trying

to find a way out.

ASHLEY: I put it in the box.

MATT: You close the box.

SAM: I don't trust that thing.

TALIESIN: The burrowing eyeball? Are you sure?!

(laughter)

TRAVIS: Holy shit!

SAM: I mean, I don't trust it near us.

ASHLEY: That's my favorite thing you've ever
said.

SAM: Percy, I think you need to give it to me to
hold.

TALIESIN: I think that's a terrible idea.

SAM: No, I can take care of it better than you.

TALIESIN: What makes you think that?

SAM: Just give it to me. Trust me.

TALIESIN: You're bleeding out your eye right now!

SAM: I want revenge on this eye. Give it to me so
I can get revenge!

ASHLEY: Hold on. I cast Cure Wounds for his eye.

MATT: Yeah. The eye wasn't removed from the
socket, but the damage that was around it seems to

have healed up from the mild Cure Wounds. There's
still the drying blood that has pooled down the

cheek, but it appears that most of the initial
damage has been sealed.

ASHLEY: Do you want me to hold it?

TALIESIN: I kind of want you to hold it.

SAM: I think I should hold it.

ASHLEY: I feel like I'm going to hold onto it in
case it tries to attach itself to you again and

you pull out your eyeball again.

TALIESIN: Yes, and that thing should be difficult
to get out of. It it is a big case.

SAM: What if it can still hear us? Sense where we
are?

TRAVIS: It's an eyeball; it doesn't have ears.

SAM: That is true. That is a very good point.

TALIESIN: Well, if we're really amused by it, we
just set off the light crystal that's in there and

let it blind itself in there for a while. That
would be funny. We have bigger problems. Diamonds.

And Delilah.

TRAVIS: Oh yeah, she still goes in the bag,
right?

TALIESIN: Oh, yeah. We're going to want to have a
word with her later.

MARISHA: Even beyond the diamonds.

TALIESIN: Vex. Vex. He needs you here, now. I
need you here. We're not done. This is not over

yet. We are in trouble. We need to find a city.
The two of you, I need both of you here.

LAURA: Of course, darling.

MARISHA: This was supposed to be a weekend trip.

TALIESIN: Nothing is ever what it's supposed to
be.

MARISHA: Just a weekend trip.

TALIESIN: I know. Let's get this done.

MARISHA: Even after we find 25,000 gold pieces
worth of diamonds, I've never brought anyone back

before, and this is versus the Raven Queen. How do
we know if his soul is even available for return?

TALIESIN: How do we know that she is against us?
This was Vecna. She may still be with us.

LAURA: I can't believe I left his soul over there,
alone.

ASHLEY: We didn't.

LAURA: I did. I came back.

TALIESIN: We're not done.

MARISHA: Maybe we should talk to the Raven Queen.

TRAVIS: How do you do that?

LAURA: There's a temple in Vasselheim, and there's
a temple in Whitestone.

MARISHA: Same way that he did.

TALIESIN: We need to find diamonds. Can we find
them while we're here?

Can we find them where we are?

LAURA: I don't know how you find diamonds in the
Feywild.

TRAVIS: Percy, don't you know the Feywild?

TALIESIN: Where are we?

TRAVIS: Do we see any structures off in the
distance, or is it all just overgrowth?

MATT: You are in the center, or at least
completely surrounded by enclosed, dense,

bluish-purple forest. You cannot see above the
canopy. What little bit of light is visible seems

to be from a bioluminescence beneath the fog. As
you pushed below, you could see what appeared to

be bits of fungus that grew out of the forest
floor. The slowly dying off and decomposing leaves

and fallen branches. It's almost like this
underlit glow, but you don't see any structures,

no signs of civilization. You have no idea where
you are.

You've not been to this part of the Feywild.

MARISHA: Maybe our werewolf friends are still
around.

TRAVIS: Yeah, I was going to say I have a terrible
idea. I think they wanted to leave, so what if

they know of some hidden treasure trove around
here? That could, you know, tit for tit.

LAURA: I might be able to buy diamonds, as well.
If we go to a city.

SAM: If we rest, I may be able to make them.

LAURA: 25,000 gold worth of diamonds.

SAM: How big is that?

LAURA: It could be a lot of smaller diamonds.

SAM: But how big? How many?

LAURA: I'll pull out one diamond that I have
that's worth 1,500 gold.

TALIESIN: I feel within a tinker theory is how
figuring out how much diamonds--

LAURA: We would need 20 more of these.

MATT: It can range based on the purity of the
diamond, how well it's been cut. You can make an

intelligence check, if you'd like.

TALIESIN: That'll do. I feel like this would be in
the wheelhouse.

LAURA: I have to blow my nose again.

TALIESIN: God, I am rolling just the worst. 13.

MATT: 13. I mean, that's a lot of diamonds. That
can range, depending on the purity and where in

the world they're found. There's a standard amount
when it comes to magic practices that aren't

tailored to the cultural variations of cost. You
couldn't ask somebody, "Sell me these diamonds,

"but for six times the cost," you know. It wouldn't
help the spell occur. That's the general

equivalent to the amount of diamonds that are
consumed required for his spell. You've never seen

that many diamonds in one place.

MARISHA: We don't have a body, so we're basically
making a diamond Vax.

TALIESIN: I know where there are diamonds.

LAURA: Where?

SAM: I can make them. We just need an animal.

ASHLEY: How much can you make?

SAM: As much as the animal.

TRAVIS: Ooh, the bigger the animal, the bigger the
diamonds?

MARISHA: I can make animals.

SAM: I mean, I know you're grieving, but we could
give Trinket up for this.

MARISHA: I can make animals.

LAURA: Scanlan.

SAM: It was worth a try.

LAURA: You're such a shithead.

TALIESIN: There is a second thought, if this does
not go well. Which was-- there was one place where

we saw that many diamonds in one place before:
Thordak.

TRAVIS: Surely they've cleaned all that up by
now, right?

TALIESIN: Yes, but not everything left the city.
There's enough there. It didn't get randomly

distributed. I'm sure that they have it, and I'm
sure that we can make a deal.

TRAVIS: Take a loan?

TALIESIN: I have something worth money.

TRAVIS: Was it a bad idea?

SAM: Taking out a loan?

TRAVIS: Yeah!

SAM: To buy diamonds?

LAURA: We have gold. We have plenty of gold.

MARISHA: What did Kraghammer mine? What was their
deal?

MATT: All sorts of things. Many precious metals,
gems, stone that was used for crafting, hewing

into various forms of masonry. Anything that could
be reaped from beneath the Cliffkeep Mountains,

that's what Kraghammer specialized in.

MARISHA: What if we go to a mine? We could go
straight to a source, buy direct?

LAURA: We could go to Kraghammer and buy, or we
could try doing what Scanlan said.

SAM: We could try mine first, and if it doesn't
work-- but I need to rest.

I can't do anything today.

LAURA: Should we get back to our world?

TALIESIN: We go to Kraghammer, rest there.

MARISHA: We can't. We have to sleep before, unless
there's a portal nearby that we can get through.

LAURA: Did you send us to the pond? I thought you
took us to the pond.

MARISHA: It has to be nearby. Plane Shift is
general. I pick an area, and it gambles where it's

going to drop us.

MATT: And did you specify the location?

MARISHA: I did! I said the Shademirk Bog and the
pond, the glade. I found the page in my notes and

rambled all the names off very quickly in a
panic.

MATT: What's interesting, when last you were in the
Shademirk, you recall this being a very

oil-thickened forest.

LAURA: Oh, you took us to where Saundor was. You
didn't take us to the pond with the chick?

MATT: Correct, this is the Shademirk. This is
where you battled with Saundor. However, the

forest you're in now, if this is indeed the same
location, it seems to have vastly recovered from

the corruption that Saundor's presence gave, which
is why it's both unfamiliar to you and not as

oppressive as the last time you visited.

MARISHA: Didn't we-- nope. I Plane Shifted us
out.

LAURA: We have to spend the night here. Vecna's in
our world.

TALIESIN: Vecna's in a box.

LAURA: How much power does he get from that eye?

TALIESIN: More than all of us combined, I'd
imagine.

TRAVIS: If it burrows in the ground, it can't
break out of the box, right?

TALIESIN: I don't know.

LAURA: Open the box and see what it's doing.

TALIESIN: We can look in the box without.

SAM: Give it to me. I'll take care of it. I'll
send it away to a place where only I can get it.

ASHLEY: Can I take a peek?

MATT: Yeah, you open it up. You hold it back and
hold the door open.

TALIESIN: There's a glass thing so we can look
through the glass.

MATT: Immediately, glancing in, you see it staring
right back at you.

MARISHA: (horrified wail)

LAURA: Don't send it to another plane; that's
very fucking weird.

SAM: But it's a personal plane. It's my plane.

LAURA: Are you sure nobody else can ever get into
it?

SAM: I am not.

LAURA: Then no.

SAM: I don't know how this works. My daughter
taught me this spell; I've never used it before.

LAURA: Then, fuck it, we're not doing it.

SAM: It goes into a little pocket dimension! Is
what she told me.

I don't even know what that means!

LAURA: That's really weird.

TALIESIN: What if it's the Vecna dimension?

SAM: Here, let's try something. Just give me
something, I'll send it there now. I don't know

what that'll do.

ASHLEY: How will we know it's there?

SAM: Give me Trinket.

LAURA: No! Stop it!

SAM: I can't do Trinket. It has to be less than
five pounds.

TRAVIS: Less than five pounds?

SAM: Yes.

ASHLEY: It has to be something small?

SAM: Yeah.

MARISHA: No! No, don't consider it Pike, no!

SAM: Give me anything.

TRAVIS: Do you want a pair of manacles?

SAM: Sure!

TRAVIS: Here's a pair of manacles.

SAM: All right. I will use Wrist Pocket!

MATT: You watch as he holds the manacles and does
a flourish with his hand

and they vanish from sight.

ASHLEY: How do you know if they're there?

SAM: I don't know where they are! I literally have
no idea, but watch this!

MATT: They seem to apparate immediately into his
grasp.

SAM: I don't know how I even do that!

LAURA: Cool. We're not using a random-ass magic
trick on an eyeball.

ASHLEY: Did you just point at me and tell me to
come to you so you can

make me disappear and come back?

SAM: No! The eye! I can get rid of the eye!

ASHLEY: No, it makes me nervous, Scanlan. I want
to keep our... eyes on it.

(laughter)

ASHLEY: Fuck off!

SAM: Maybe we should vote on this. Should we give
it to me? Who says aye?

TALIESIN: You can buy my vote.

SAM: I don't have that much.

TALIESIN: Yes, you do. You can buy my vote.

SAM: I don't have enough.

LAURA: Are there any animals around?

MATT: Make a nature check.

LAURA: Natural 20.

MATT: You're familiar with forests, definitely,
and you can see telltale signs of scurrying,

telltale signs of track marks in the ground, feces
left behind by living creatures. You do see signs

of things that live throughout these forests
everywhere.

LAURA: Anything that looks like it would be the
size of an adult deer or something?

TRAVIS: Doe, a deer? A female deer?

LAURA: I'm thinking a male deer. Yes, a stag. A
white stag. Any stag, really,

just an animal that's big.

MATT: You see a number of tracks that would
resemble creatures of that size or larger. Some

seem bear-like, some seem larger than that, though
similar claws and heavy footprints. Some that are

smaller and skittery. You see there was a small cluster of
what might be deer-like creatures, but you're not

quite sure what the tracks are. There's plenty of
life that wanders through here. Apparently, since

you've arrived, none that seem bold enough to
approach you too closely in this clustered

clearing you're in. Can't even call it a clearing,
because you maybe have a total of ten feet you're

all crammed into at this time.

TRAVIS: If we howl, right?

ASHLEY: Are we down?

LAURA: Yeah, we haven't healed since--

TALIESIN: We are wrecked.

ASHLEY: How's everybody doing?

LAURA: I'm low.

SAM: Aren't you low, Pike? Like 11 or something.

LAURA: I mean, we're about to rest. You're
probably super low.

ASHLEY: I think am, let's see if I wrote it down
here. Oh, yeah! I forgot! I'm almost dead.

LAURA: Trinket's unconscious still in my
necklace.

ASHLEY: Okay.

LAURA: He's unconscious. I pop him out, if you're
going to heal us.

MATT: (magic noise)

TRAVIS: Aw, buddy.

LAURA: I start crying again.

SAM: I turn him into diamonds.

LAURA: You dick! You're such an asshole.

MATT: All right, so what are you guys doing?

LAURA: Pike's going to heal us.

TALIESIN: Heal and sleep.

LAURA: I'm going to kill something.

TALIESIN: Let Keyleth make something big.

MATT: What are you casting, Pike?

ASHLEY: Mass Cure Wounds.

MATT: Mass Cure Wounds? All right, go for it.

LAURA: Will it work on a magical animal, or does
it have to be a real animal?

SAM: No, it can work on anything, I think. I've
never turned anything into diamonds.

TRAVIS: If I had that, I'd be doing that all the
time.

SAM: You're right. In retrospect, I should have
been doing this literally every day. I just

learned the spell a week ago.

TRAVIS: Why are you dealing drugs? Just be like
boop!

SAM: Yeah, but look at this! It's gone! It's back!
Cool, right?

TRAVIS: And think how useful that will come in the
bedroom. Manacles! Nobody? Cool.

LAURA: I was like, pocket dimension?

ASHLEY: You all heal 31 points. It's something.

MARISHA: 31? All of us?

MATT: Everyone healed 31. Trinket gets up, (bear
grumbling).

LAURA: Yeah. Hey, Trink.

SAM: You guys need more healing? I could try to
give us more.

LAURA: We're going to rest. Are we safe to leave
fucking-- there's nothing we can do, at this

point-- to leave Vecna in the world. We can't do
anything!

TALIESIN: We have one problem at a time. We have
Delilah, and we will deal with--

MARISHA: What do you want to do with Delilah?

MATT: She's been stuffed into the Bag of Holding.

TALIESIN: We're going to talk to her. We're going
to see what we can learn. We're going to be very

thoughtful about what we talk to her about, and
we're going to find a way of making sure that this

is the last time we put her in the ground. By hook
or by crook.

LAURA: Don't cry on camera and then have to blow
your nose a bunch!

SAM: She says to a nearby tree.

ASHLEY: Should we try killing an animal and seeing
how many diamonds you get out of it?

SAM: I can't try anything today.

LAURA: Okay, we have to wait.

TALIESIN: Tomorrow, we go to Kraghammer, we make
an animal.

LAURA: We don't have the mansion tonight.

SAM: No.

ASHLEY: Do you want to Speak with Dead before bed,
or do you want to sleep on it?

TRAVIS: We don't need the mansion; I got all my
hit points. I'm good.

TALIESIN: I don't think I'm in the right mind to
even think of anything to say to her that isn't

just rage, at the moment.

LAURA: We need to get up in a tree. I don't know
what's in this area. I saw some tracks that didn't

look friendly.

TALIESIN: Let's get up there.

TRAVIS: Aren't these trees dangerous in their own
right?

TALIESIN: They seem like they've quieted down.

LAURA: We healed this forest; it should thank us.

TRAVIS: Okay. Did the bow talk to the trees or
anything? Fenthras.

MATT: Interesting. With the natural 20 nature
check you made earlier: there is, I don't want to

say, not a kinship, but a sense of understanding
between you and the surrounding forest. It's hard

to explain, and you haven't really had this sense
before; this is more a Keyleth territory of having

this connection with nature. But it's because you
wield Fenthras and were responsible in a large way

for cleansing this landscape, that as you begin to
approach and look for trees for a place to sleep,

you watch as one tree, the branches seem to bend
down to form a small ladder. You watch as the

boughs above separate and create an
easy-to-lay-down cluster of branches and leaves.

TALIESIN: Small miracles.

MARISHA: They like us now.

LAURA: Thank you.

TRAVIS: You guys crash; I'll take first watch.

LAURA: I'm going to pull the armor up so we can
keep it. Did you want--

MARISHA: Yeah. We cuddle between the armor.

TALIESIN: That's weird. I'm not getting into it.

MARISHA: That's the saddest thing.

MATT: That's pretty sad. All right. The rest of
you find yourselves to a night's rest, seemingly

protected for the time being by the surrounding
Shademirk Forest, no longer the Shademirk Bog. And

unconsciousness takes you, Grog taking first
watch. Now, I'm going to ask you guys, if you

wouldn't mind, to step into the kitchen.

TRAVIS: What, me?

SAM: Everybody but Grog?

MATT: Everybody but Liam.

LAURA: Oh fuck me running. We're jacking off.

MARISHA: Jacking off. Oh man.

ASHLEY: No, I feel like you're going to make
plans.

LAURA: What are you going to do while we're not in
here?

TRAVIS: Go.

SAM: A whole new show.

LIAM: Spin-off.

MATT: All right, we're getting Liam back in here.
Shoo. No, we'll probably have you back in.

Getting tangled?

MARISHA: Don't die forever.

MATT: We'll wait for them to leave the room.

Vax'ildan. As your eyes dart back and forth,

glancing upward at the sky above, snow hitting and
stinging your paralyzed eyes, you see the terrible

lich above you, a flash of green, then darkness.
Floating without weight, without temperature. You

glance around in the surrounding shadow and cannot
see anything; your hands before you, nothing. It

is just void, darkness. You will yourself to see
something, anything, and in an instant, you begin

to glow. Your form becomes visible around you. You
can now see your body, nude and held aloft in this

dark space, emanating this soft, vibrant
orangish-white light.

As the light begins to emanate and cast away the
darkness, you also see what appears to be a

tangling of some sort of web: strands of silk that
also begin to glow with a similar light as to your

form that holds you tightly in your position. You
struggle, but you're held firm. You think you yell

out, but as you glance upward to shout for help,
you see the shadows now curl back to reveal the

familiar sight of a massive white porcelain
woman's face. Eyeless, yet staring straight at, if

not through you. Her presence, imposing as it may
be, soothes you as her giant hand, larger than a

house, a palace, it seems, almost, emerges from
below and gives you a ground to step on, your feet

finding purchase in the center of her dark palm.

As your feet touch her palm, the silk web seems to
loosen. You cast off the threads and fall to your

hands and knees. You take a moment, and you hear
that soft voice once more. "My champion, you

"return to me and tear a swath through the
tapestry. Please, be calm. My sight can pierce

"many veils, but you've been hidden from my sight
in recent days, and I am worried what foulness has

"turned its intent upon us. Now, here you come to
me, your very thread frayed and soul

"transitioning. An unexpected destiny for my
beautiful fate-touched." One of her fingers curls

through your hair at the back of your head. "Tell
me what you have seen."

LIAM: Your enemy.

MATT: "I have many enemies."

LIAM: Vecna.

MATT: "What does this Vecna intend?"

LIAM: He's come... he's come back to our world. My
home. My family is in danger.

The world is in danger.

MATT: "How so? How can one man be this dangerous?
What does he intend? What have you learned?"

LIAM: I don't know.

MATT: "I wonder why he guards my sight. Well." She
goes into quiet contemplation for a moment. You

see the strands of hair that emanate from the
sides of the mask slowly shifting like waves on an

ocean. "This Vecna comes to your world to be a
king?"

LIAM: That or grind us all into dust.

MATT: "This is historical. Mortals continuously
intend to find others to grind into dust. If this

"being has the power to block my sight, he has
power beyond a mortal realm. Did you see anything?

"Anything else?"

LIAM: We traveled to the Shadowfell. There was a
tower, and he had servants. He had powerful

servants. A woman that we've fought before, and
another, a man, a creature. I don't know. With a

blade, a dark blade. And he was too powerful for
us. He crushed us.

MATT: "And in your short spark with him, you
learned nothing more of his plan?

"No hint of what he's plotting?"

LIAM: He threw me to the ground the first second
he laid his eye on me. He murdered my sister. I

thought we had come to an arrangement.

MATT: "We have."

LIAM: Where is my sister?

MATT: "She lives, still. She is beyond my
influence. However, your body is ash, and your

"soul is steeped in the divine energies that uphold
the paths between life and death. You've earned

"your eternal rest." The mask begins to recede
into the darkness.

LIAM: No. No! Come back. No! I will not leave them
behind. I want to help them, still.

MATT: The faint gray of the mask that begins to
fade into shadow stops and comes back even

brighter, vibrant, almost. You sense the mystery
of the Raven Queen shift from this entity that

dodges and weaves to instead a pillar of power of
life and death that is both awe-striking and

awe-fearing. And for a moment, you realize how
small you are in her presence.

"You truly see, to seek this, to bring it to its end?"

LIAM: Whatever it takes.

MATT: "Your resolve is admirable. Your love of
your chosen family is vibrant. What I offer you is

"the power to see this conflict through to its end.
You will be briefly beyond the very grasp of

"death, and I will hold back any attempt for you to
transition. You will be a bulwark of my power in

"cold flesh, walking between heartbeats,
unstoppable. You will have the power to walk once

"more with Vox Machina, with your sister, with your
Keyleth. And should you use this power wisely,

"perhaps save Exandria, save them, save her. But
when it's done and this foul, undying king lies

"dead or sealed, you will return to me, my
champion, evermore."

The imposing image now shifts and changes. In an
instant, the giant being is now the simple woman,

the mask you once saw removed now missing. And
there, the somewhat sad, beautiful pale face of

the Raven Queen as she steps forward. The silence
is broken by the sounds of her footsteps across

nothing. (footsteps) Her hand comes up. Warm. You
weren't expecting, as it traces across your brow

and curves across to your chin and pulls it up.
"Do you accept my gift?"

LIAM: You have such loneliness in your eyes.

MATT: "Perhaps you will keep me company when you
come back to me. Do you accept?"

LIAM: I do.

MATT: "Then so be it. You, whose nature bucks
destiny, my beautiful thing. Go. Share what you

"have shared with me with others like me. Take what
you can learn of this Vecna's plans, for if he can

"block his intent from one, who knows what he plots
against the other powers beyond the gate? Learn

"from them. Ask them. You have my blessing. They
have theirs to give, as well, and they may be all

"that stands between the ruin of this world and
you. Let their blessings turn the tides,

"Vax'ildan. But use your time wisely, for
corruption like this waits for no one. Now." She

pulls your head down and kisses you on the
forehead and brings your head close to hers, and

you hear a voice whisper right into your ear, ever
so faintly. "Wake up!"

We need to go ahead and retrieve the rest of the
cast now, if you wouldn't mind stepping aside.

LIAM: Sure.

MATT: Thank you. (sighs, laughs) That's
interesting. I'm here in silence. How creepy is

this? I never get to talk with you guys at the
table by myself. I don't even know what to do. Oh,

they enter now. (laughs) Welcome back! Come, have
a seat! Plug in!

TRAVIS: Why did you go so far away?

MATT: Jack in.

SAM: By the way, audience, Travis pointed out as
we left, they might not know what we were talking

about when we all said, "oh, we're going to jack
off now." It means unplug our microphone cords.

MATT: Oh yeah, that's actually a pretty good--

SAM: We're not--

TRAVIS: Performing illicit acts.

TALIESIN: I am, but everyone else isn't.

MATT: To each their own, I suppose.

TALIESIN: That's the hard part.

SAM: Why was Liam crying in the hallway?

MATT: (laughs)

TALIESIN: Sam's scamming you.

LAURA: Jacking in.

SAM: Jacking in.

ASHLEY: What happened?

MATT: All right.

SAM: I can verify that none of us listened or read
anything about what just happened. We were jacking

off the whole time.

(laughter)

TALIESIN: We had to hide at the other end of the
building, man. That was nuts.

MATT: So as you make your watch. Who's making
second watch?

TRAVIS: I'll take both.

TALIESIN and LAURA: No.

SAM: You need to rest.

TRAVIS: I don't, boo.

LAURA: Yeah, you do. You need to sleep.

MARISHA: You don't want to be exhausted.

SAM: You've got to get your spells back, man.

TRAVIS: Yeah.

MARISHA: How long does he have to rest so he's not
exhausted?

MATT: Long rest.

TALIESIN: These are all long rests. We're all
getting long rests. I'll take second watch.

TRAVIS: I'm already exhausted. I frenzied last.

MATT: Yeah, so if you don't rest, you don't get
rid of that point of exhaustion.

TRAVIS: We've all learned what happens when I get
two points of exhaustion. Good things.

TALIESIN: Vecna comes back, and we all die.

LAURA: Vecna is back.

MATT: All right, so Percival, second watch?
Perception check.

TALIESIN: That'll do. That's a 21.

MATT: Okay. Your watch continues without issue.
Final watch is?

ASHLEY: I'll take it.

MATT: Pike. Final watch. Perception check.

ASHLEY: 19.

MATT: 19, okay. While there is no real change from
day to night in the Feywild, it's in that

perpetual nearly dusk, sunset, purple-orange
skyline, which you can see elements of creeping

through since you're higher up in the brush of the
forest. You do hear the shifting of sounds. The

evening owl hooting has changed to more gentle
bird chirps and sounds that would usually befit

birds that lead to morning to you. Whether that be
the forest itself, its natural cycle, or it

altering to fit your cycle of sleep. At the end of
your watch-- you've had your full rest, but are

still a little groggy, you hear what sounds like
the crushing of leaves on the ground below you.

ASHLEY: I'm going to try to hop up and hide in the
tree. I guess I'm looking awake in the tree.

MATT: Okay. You're up in the tree, still. You
glance down.

ASHLEY: I'm going to keep watching.

MATT: You see a humanoid figure emerge from one of
the nearby trees. Pale, nude.

SAM: (whispering) Get on that.

(laughter)

MATT: Long, dark black hair. Groggily stepping
into the glade where you just were.

MARISHA: Is this your nymph?

MATT: It's a familiar figure.

TRAVIS: Long, dark black hair? Pale?

ASHLEY: I run down from the tree.

SAM: It's Powder from the movie Powder.

LAURA: Wait! Vax? I don't know. I'm asleep.

MARISHA: We're asleep?

MATT: You crawl down.

LAURA: What the fuck?

ASHLEY: I don't want him to see me.

MATT: Okay. Make a stealth check.

SAM: What has happened?

ASHLEY: Oh. 22.

MATT: 22. (laughs) Passive wisdom. As you
carefully stay in the tree, you shake your head a

bit, wandering into this opening here, not quite
sure where you are as your senses are coming to,

and you hear this slight scraping of something
against bark. You immediately glance up and can

see the small shine of a silver-and-brass set of
armor as a tiny gnome is currently held up into

the boughs of a tree.

LIAM: Pickle?

ASHLEY: Stringbean?

LIAM: Hi.

ASHLEY: Hi.

LIAM: Where are we?

ASHLEY: We're in the Feywild. Where did you just
come from?

LIAM: I'm not entirely sure. I died. Did you know
that?

ASHLEY: I did know that. We're trying to figure
out how to save you.

LIAM: What are you going to do?

ASHLEY: I don't know.

LIAM: Sorry, I'm a little confused.

ASHLEY: That's okay.

MATT: The naturally sensitive ears, even in
a sleeping state, that are Vex's, being the

wild hunter you are, you hear a suddenly loud
voice below that catches your attention, and your

eyes flicker open.

LIAM: Oh, fuck.

LAURA: I get up and run down.

MATT: Darting down the tree rapidly. You watch as
your sister falls into the foliage. There you see

before you, your brother. Clothes-less.

LIAM: I thought you died. I watched you die.

LAURA: It's a trick! It's a trick. It's a trick of
the Feywild.

LIAM: I'm sorry I'm naked. Come here. I'm all
right.

MATT: He's physical. He's cold. But he's there.

LAURA: How are you here?

LIAM: I don't know. I died.

LAURA: I know. I didn't see it. I died, too.

LIAM: But you're back.

LAURA: So are you.

LIAM: I'm so glad you're back. Don't cry.

LAURA: I have your armor, and Keyleth-- are you
all right? Are you really here?

LIAM: Yeah, I'm really here.

LAURA: Can I roll an insight check to make sure
it's actually him?

MATT: Sure.

LAURA: 20.

MATT: 20? Right as you've known your brother,
there doesn't seem

to be anything that tells you otherwise.

ASHLEY: Vax?

Can I put my hand on his chest and see if
I feel a heartbeat?

MATT: Now as you notice, now that you've lost
focus from the fact that he's there, you can see

where previously, there was a small, darkened spot
on his chest that looked like a bruise of some

kind that never quite went away, it has expanded a
bit to be almost in the shape of wings across the

front of the chest.

ASHLEY: Do I feel a heartbeat?

MATT: You listen closely. Make a medicine check.

LIAM: What's the matter, Pike?

ASHLEY: That's a natural 20.

MATT: Oh shit. You get close, and to get close to
where his heart is,

you have to pull him down a bit.

LAURA: There's a dick, and he's naked.

LIAM: And she's really short.

MATT: With gnomish size right now, this is getting
all sorts of weird.

SAM: Just come down.

LIAM: Listen, I'm a cleric. It's nothing I haven't
seen before.

ASHLEY: I see them all the time.

SAM: She's a doctor. It's fine.

LIAM: You clear diseases.

MATT: You hear a very faint, slow heartbeat. It's
there. (slow heartbeat)

TRAVIS: Oh, it's that slow? That's like Lance
Armstrong sleeping slow.

SAM: It's three BPM.

ASHLEY: Okay.

LAURA: Does he sound weird?

ASHLEY: I can't figure it out. Sometimes when
people are very athletic, they have very slow

heart rates. You're very in shape. I'm going to
climb up the tree and wake up Keyleth.

LAURA: Tell her to bring the armor down.

TALIESIN: Is anybody else waking up at this
point?

MATT: Percival, you've got a pretty decent
perception. At this point, with the sound and the

shifting up and down the tree, and you guys are
pretty alert by nature, you all start coming to.

TRAVIS: I'm not perceptive at all.

MATT: Except for Grog. You're snoring.

SAM: I've got one perception. Oh, it's passive.

MATT: You're both asleep.

ASHLEY: Come down from the tree real quick.

MARISHA: What's going on, Pike?

ASHLEY: Everything's okay.

MARISHA: Pike, I need you to tell me before I come
around this corner and see.

ASHLEY: I grab her hand. It's okay. Come with me.

MARISHA: I am not coming with you until you tell
me, Pike.

ASHLEY: Vax is at the bottom of the tree.

TALIESIN: I grab my stuff, and I immediately run
down the tree.

MARISHA: I clutch onto Vax's armor.

LIAM: I don't know.

LAURA: She sent you back.

LIAM: Yeah.

LAURA: She's my new favorite.

TALIESIN: Vex, I need you to step away from him.
Vax, if it is you, I hope you understand, and

please, just for a second, thank you.

LIAM: Fred, it's fine.

TALIESIN: We're fighting the perversion of death
itself. This is what I would do to torture us.

Let's figure this out before we hand him back
anything that's older than we are.

LIAM: I hand the armor over to my sister.

MATT: The armor's still being clutched by
Keyleth.

LIAM: Oh, I didn't get it yet? I thought she put
it in my hands. All right.

TALIESIN: I'm keeping some distance.

LIAM: You created a temple for me. You know who I
serve.

TALIESIN: Oh, I believe you're you. I just have to
make sure what brought you back. I don't even know

if you would know yet. Pike, does he have a
heartbeat? Is he undead?

ASHLEY: He has a heartbeat.

TALIESIN: Have you tried Turn Undead?

LIAM: You would know if there's evil in my heart.

TALIESIN: It's not your heart I'm worried about.

LIAM: You would know if there's evil in my heart.

LAURA: He's fine.

LIAM: You would.

TALIESIN: If he's not, you will not survive this.

MATT: You actually haven't seen Keyleth yet. She's
still up in the tree.

LIAM: I'm very confused.

MATT: It's okay.

LAURA: They were talking up in the tree.

TALIESIN: I'm sure it's going to be fine. Let's
just take a minute and reflect on every terrible

thing that's happened over the last 24 hours and
be careful for once. I'm so sorry.

LIAM: No. He's absolutely right. This is insane.

TALIESIN: This is madness.

ASHLEY: Vax, what do you like to do with my hair?

LIAM: (weak laughter)

TALIESIN: It's him in there. Let's just make sure
that it's him that is the rest of him.

LAURA: What do you mean, he's a lich or
something?

TALIESIN: Could Vecna put Vax into something
designed to hurt us? I believe it's Vax. It's the

rest of it.

ASHLEY: Do you remember anything from when you
woke up?

LIAM: I remember hitting the ground, and I
remember watching you die, and then it was her

face again.

LAURA: The Raven Queen?

LIAM: Yeah.

TALIESIN: What would happen to him if you tried to
Turn Undead?

LIAM: Go ahead.

LAURA: What if he is, though?

TALIESIN: If anything awful happens, he should
survive it.

LIAM: Go ahead. Get it out of the way. I'm not
worried about it.

ASHLEY: I know, but what if it does something--

LIAM: If I'm undead, then I shouldn't be here with
you, all of you.

TALIESIN: If you're dead, we'll just have to be
extra careful, and we'll have a little more

understanding of what's happening.

LIAM: Where is Keyleth?

TALIESIN: When has a random miracle ever just
happened? If we work for a miracle, that's one

thing, but this sort of thing doesn't end up on
your doorstep. You know that.

ASHLEY: Vax?

LAURA: Will he survive it? I don't think he is
undead.

ASHLEY: I don't, either.

LAURA: But I don't want him to be able to be
turned against us. He looks normal.

TALIESIN: Does he?

LIAM: You used to give me wet willies in Abyssal
class. It's me.

LAURA: I know it's you.

ASHLEY: You have something new on your chest.

LIAM: What? Oh shit. Well, that's extra.

ASHLEY: Keyleth?

MARISHA: Will you come here for a second? Okay.

ASHLEY: I climb back up the tree.

MARISHA: I could hear everything that's going on
because it's down the tree.

ASHLEY: Are you okay?

MARISHA: No, I'm super not okay. What's going on?
What the fuck is going on?!

LAURA: Keyleth, we can hear you.

MARISHA: Fuck all of you! For a fucking second,
just tell me.

ASHLEY: I was watching, and then I saw him walk
out of the tree of sorts, and I think it's him,

and he's obviously naked.

MARISHA: I have his armor.

ASHLEY: Okay. Maybe you would be able to tell, to
see what's going on. I think you should come down.

It will be okay.

MARISHA: Okay. You go first. I'll follow you.

ASHLEY: Okay.

MARISHA: I follow her down.

MATT: Okay. You come down, and there, next to Vex
and Percival, at a distance of a few feet, you see

the pale body standing before you of Vax'ildan,
breathing.

LIAM: Hi.

TALIESIN: I'm so sorry.

MATT: You guys wake up, slowly, from all of this.

TALIESIN: I cannot wait for you both to be angry
with me later.

ASHLEY: Okay.

MARISHA: Does he feel cold?

MATT: Colder than you remember, yeah.

LAURA: Oh god, he's undead.

MARISHA: Is it you? I thought I killed you.

LIAM: You?

MARISHA: I could have done more.

LIAM: No. Nobody could have done more for me. No.

MARISHA: You're cold.

LIAM: Am I? I probably should put some clothes on,
then.

MARISHA: I put my ear up to his chest.

MATT: Make a medicine check.

MARISHA: Natural 18. 24.

MATT: You hear the faint, slow heartbeat.

MARISHA: Okay. I give him back the armor.

TALIESIN: No!

MARISHA: Percy.

TALIESIN: Not yet.

LIAM: I'm not taking it.

TALIESIN: Thank you. Not yet.

MARISHA: How long do we have you? What do you
remember? Anything?

LIAM: Well, you can guess some of it.

MARISHA: No, we fucking can't!

LAURA: We have no fucking idea what's going on.

MARISHA: As far as I'm concerned, you can drop
dead in front of our faces right now, and it

wouldn't be much different than the past 24
hours.

LIAM: You all have seen her, the same as I have.

LAURA: We haven't talked to her like you have.

MARISHA: We saw her face.

LAURA: What did she say? Did she send you back?
Did she say, "oh, you're going to be undead."

LIAM: She did not say I'm a fucking ghoul.

ASHLEY: Vax, you're going to be okay. Take my
hand. This is going to be okay. We're going to

figure this out.

LIAM: Yeah.

TRAVIS: Where did everybody go?

SAM: Good morning!

ASHLEY: Grog.

MARISHA: Surprise.

TRAVIS: What? I go down.

LIAM: Hey. What's up, Poobah?

TRAVIS: Is this real?

TALIESIN: We're not sure.

LAURA: We're figuring it out.

LIAM: Ooh.

TRAVIS: I need to pee.

SAM: I come down and join everybody.

LIAM: Hi.

SAM: I look in my pocket to where I was keeping
the dust that was Vax. Is there anything there?

MATT: Still filled with dust.

LIAM: What is that?

SAM: This is you.

LAURA: Oh fuck.

LIAM: What?

TALIESIN: Let's not even begin to have this
discussion if we don't have to.

SAM: I feel like I should still keep this.

ASHLEY: Keep it just in case. I'm going to cast
Turn Undead.

MATT: You Channel Divinity: Turn Undead.

MARISHA: Wait. What?

MATT: As you say that, she takes her holy symbol
and clutches it, and you watch as there's this divine

flash and this emanating force, this low
hum. As it billows out, and you've seen her use it

before. Clutching Vax in your hand, you feel the
warmth pass over you. No seeming effect.

ASHLEY: Vax, I don't know how you did it, or how
she did it, but something's happened.

LIAM: She's like Sarenrae.

TALIESIN: I think that we can be physically
optimistic. Go.

LIAM: Pike, she's a god.

ASHLEY: I've never seen anything like this before
in my life.

TALIESIN: We have to figure out where 
you came from, 'cause you're in a pouch.

ASHLEY: You're there, and you're here.

SAM: Wait, have we tried-- hey. Can you cut your
hand? Do you bleed?

LIAM: Can someone lend me a knife?

MARISHA: I gave you back your armor and shit.

LIAM: I didn't take it.

LAURA: I'm going to take Whisper and cut him.

MARISHA: He's got a cloak over him.

LAURA: I'm going to cut you right here.

MATT: You cut him. It's a sharp pain, and you
watch as it bleeds.

LAURA: Red?

MATT: Yeah.

LAURA: Sorry. I cast Cure Wounds.

TALIESIN: This is looking better, all things
considered.

LIAM: I don't know.

LAURA: I'd already laid claim on your boots. I'd
come to grips with everything, and I'd decided I

was going to wear them.

LIAM: I was about to tell you everything she told
me, but I've changed my mind.

(laughter)

TALIESIN: I'm going to fall down on the ground.

SAM: How did this happen?

TRAVIS: I was asleep, and now you're here.

SAM: You made a deal with your god, or something?

LIAM: Years ago.

LAURA: Years ago?

LIAM: Year and a half ago.

ASHLEY: What did you say? What was your deal?

MARISHA: You're here until the job's complete,
right? Or she feels that you've paid your service,

I feel like I remember you telling me in bedside
chat at some point in time over the 15 months?

TALIESIN: TMI.

TRAVIS: You need to work on your intimacy.
(laughs)

LIAM: She was a bit more specific. She doesn't
like our new play pal.

LAURA: Vecna?

LIAM: Yeah.

LAURA: I know. She hates him.

TALIESIN: Problem. We were not effective.

LAURA: Was Keyleth right? If we defeat him, do you
go away?

ASHLEY: Or maybe you're free from that deal?

SAM: If we defeat him, do you go away?

MARISHA: Or is your soul yours again?

LAURA: Just answer the question!

LIAM: It was death or come back and help you.

TRAVIS: Oh fuck. Oh shit.

SAM: So if we win, you lose.

LIAM: That's one way of looking at it.

SAM: Well, that's a brave choice.

TRAVIS: Yeah.

MARISHA: Are her deals final?

LIAM: I don't have a lot of experience with other
gods making deals, darling. But I want you to live

a long time. And I want you two to live a long
time and be happy. And I want you to get a halfway

decent relationship with your daughter. I want you
to lead many people. I want you to change the

world. I want you to do all the things I know you
can do. Forget it.

Grog, I just want you to be free.

TRAVIS: Thank you, New Vax.

LIAM: So much better than the old Vax. Look, any
one of us could die at any time! We have died.

Some of us more than once. It's a miracle that I'm
here now.

LAURA: Put your armor on.

SAM: I don't mind it. It's fine.

MARISHA: So that's it? Your purpose is to make
sure that the rest of us find long, happy lives at

the cost of your own?

LIAM: I've lived a very good life.

LAURA: She's not my favorite anymore.

LIAM: And it's not just us. The dragons were a
test. This fucking lunatic, this dead thing. He's

not setting up a theme park, guys.

LAURA: We need to get back.

MARISHA: We need to talk to the Raven Queen.

TALIESIN: We need a plan.

MARISHA: We need help.

TALIESIN: We do need help.

SAM: We have Vax now. No matter what happens
later, this was a brave choice. I'm not sure I

would have made the same, but we're stronger
together, and thank you for coming back. It's a

harder choice to come back. It's easier to walk
away. I know this. Thank you for coming back.

TRAVIS: Yeah, it's not like we have no agency,
right? We've been hit with bigger problems. We'll

work this one until we can't, anymore.

TALIESIN: We'll all try and keep each other
alive.

LIAM: Yeah.

MARISHA: I don't accept this as a closed
contract.

TRAVIS: Yeah, me neither.

SAM: Maybe this will make you more fun to be
around, too. You used to have this death wish, but

now it's done. Now you pop a beer.

LIAM: Don't set your expectations too high.

TALIESIN: I was about to say, we can give him that
pouch, and then he could have perfect proof.

TRAVIS: If you wear clothes, is the deal null and
void?

LIAM: No, I have to be naked all the time.

MATT: It's interesting, Vax. As Scanlan says those
words, you realize--

TRAVIS: I have to be naked.

(laughter)

MATT: It's part of your new multi-class.

MARISHA: Does he get a bonus to AC?

MATT: Level five paladin, level 12 rogue, level
one nudist.

(laughter)

MATT: Unarmored defense. You had it, and now he
has it, too.

MARISHA: Streaker's sprint.

MATT: The words he said about always having a
death wish, and now the death wish is over.

There's a strength in you, a confidence, an
assurance that wasn't there before. That fear of

death is gone. As he says that, for the first
time, while you raced towards death previously, it

was out of fear, and out of martyr-like purpose.
It's just confidence now. And that's where we're

going to take a break.

TRAVIS: Oh damn! Free Willy.

MATT: We'll be back here in just a minute. We'll
continue from here so we can get a drink and a

restroom break. We have our giveaway. Fantastic
zebrawood deck box from our friends at Wyrmwood.

It's got a little card to tell you it's zebrawood.
One lucky winner's going to get this when we come

back from the break, so if you want to be part of
this giveaway, go over to the Twitch chat and

enter when it's requested by the chat, enter the
word "raven."

We'll have a winner for you when we get back.

SAM and TRAVIS: That's so raven.

MATT: That's so raven, guys. All righty. Cool.
We'll see you guys here in a few minutes.

[break]

MATT: That's so late. You were so late on that.

LIAM: Change the rules of the game. Wait until the
countdown's done, then you say something foul.

MATT: Welcome, guys, back to Critical Role. The
chat room winner of our fantastic Wyrmwood deck

box is NightMist1. NightMist1, congratulations.
Denobo will contact you for your information, and

we'll get that to you asap. Well done. All righty,
everyone. So there, figuring out the scenario

revolving the return of Vax'ildan to Vox Machina,
and slowly learning some of the scenario around it

and the discussions that took place. (burps)
Pardon.

(laughter)

TRAVIS: Battling it the last two seconds.

SAM: It's his birthday. He can do whatever he
wants.

MATT: Goddamn right.

LAURA: That's going to be a t-shirt.

LIAM: I got this, I got this, (fake belch).

MATT: I have no ego anymore. I learned early to
stomp that out. All righty, so as you put your

equipment and armor back on, minus your haste
boots.

TRAVIS: And your other equipment away.

LIAM: God, the grass is really cold.

LAURA: Here, you can have these old boots of
mine.

LIAM: Thank you.

SAM: Wow. Ice cold.

MARISHA: I admire how you're really sticking to
that. I'm in awe. I'm impressed.

SAM: It's super greedy.

(laughter)

LAURA: I thought we knew this about me already.

LIAM: These are better. They're Velcro.

SAM: Oh, good.

TRAVIS: I think we should call out to the
werewolves.

SAM: You think we should call out to the
werewolves for what purpose?

TRAVIS: We need diamonds.

LAURA: We don't need diamonds anymore.

TRAVIS: All last night, "we need diamonds." Huge
discussion. Took forever.

LAURA: We don't need them anymore.

TALIESIN: Then you suggested we sleep, and
suddenly we don't need diamonds anymore.

LIAM: Why did we need diamonds?

SAM: We were going to buy your soul back for a lot
of diamonds.

LIAM: That makes no sense.

LAURA: It was a high-cost spell.

MARISHA: Attempt to resurrect you. Don't worry
about it.

LAURA: Good to know in the future, though. I'm
going to save every diamond we find.

TALIESIN: We should probably-- I get the distinct
impression this is--

TRAVIS: We should still call the werewolves.

SAM: Just because?

TRAVIS: How often are you in the Feywild? It's
like going to Philadelphia

and not eating a cheesesteak.

TALIESIN: We technically go to the Feywild about
once a year, at this point. At least, some of us.

But since we are here... I'm not going to pretend
I have a plan. I don't know what we're going to

do. We are frighteningly outmatched.

MARISHA: We should probably get back very quickly,
before too much time passes.

We've already slept here.

SAM: If we go back, where are we going? Where were
we?

LAURA: I feel like we were in Wildemount, but I
have no idea.

Where are the places that are winter?

MARISHA: Vasselheim?

LIAM: We can't do this alone.

LAURA: What about Artagan? That's his name,
right?

LIAM: That's a start.

SAM: Who?

LAURA: Artagan.

MARISHA: The guy who messed with us for three
days?

LAURA: Yeah, but he was really powerful.

TRAVIS: Oh, yeah. He was. I bet if we call the
werewolves, he will show up, as well. I'll just

howl for them real quick.

TALIESIN: It's not like we can stop you.

TRAVIS: True. (howls)

MATT: Make a performance check.

(laughter)

TRAVIS: Damn it! 13.

MATT: There isn't much space for it to really
echo, as the trees absorb a lot of the sound, but

you howl. It's cathartic. You wait. You don't hear
any response.

TRAVIS: I love Teen Wolf. I know every line in
that fucking movie. Michael J. Fox.

LIAM: Artagan is a good start. We need...

LAURA: The help of the gods.

LIAM: Higher powers here, yes.

LAURA: Sarenrae.

LIAM: That's a start.

ASHLEY: I can ask. That doesn't mean we're going
to get it.

LIAM: Pickle, I actually mean a little more than
that.

ASHLEY: What do you mean?

LIAM: Well, we have one god heavily in our corner,
but we need to go and beseech the help of others.

We are not enough, in this instance. We need to
fucking go and talk to Sarenrae.

SAM: Go?

LAURA: How do we go and talk to Sarenrae?
Vasselheim?

MARISHA: Is it possible?

LAURA: Where is Sarenrae?

ASHLEY: You have a very different connection with
your god.

LIAM: You can take us anywhere.

LAURA: What, a plane? A heaven plane? A god
plane?

TALIESIN: Oh my god.

TRAVIS: That doesn't exist, right?

LIAM: The gods? You don't think the gods exist,
after all you've seen, Grog?

TRAVIS: That's a very long discussion, but I meant
actual location for them.

MARISHA: I thought gods were supposed to be all
omnipresent and whatnot.

ASHLEY: 19.

MATT: 19. The creator gods, the prime gods, the
creators of Exandria, when they left the Prime

Material Plane and left the realm of the elemental
planes and the divine gate was crafted to separate

their powers from the Prime Material for fear of
causing another calamity and wiping out mortal

existence on this realm, many of them withdrew and
crafted realms where they reside, where they,

themselves, harness their energies of creation and
where the souls that fall under their spheres of

influence come to upon being passed. The Raven
Queen is responsible for ushering that transition.

You do know that Sarenrae exists on a plane like
this, and she's not the only god that exists on

this one particular plane.

LAURA: So how do we go there? Would they kill us?

MARISHA: Knock, knock, hello? I bamfed into your
universe. I don't know.

TALIESIN: We wouldn't come by if it weren't an
emergency.

LIAM: What else have we been doing for the last
year and a half but knocking on different

dimensional doors?

MARISHA: I do like New Vax's tenacity.

SAM: Would we be accepted there? I've done some
things in my life that are less than heavenly.

LIAM: Where could you not talk your way into,
Scanlan Shorthalt?

SAM: That's true.

MARISHA: It does immediately become the concern
that I can't get us anywhere unless I have some

sort of item, generally a tuning fork or some sort
of attuned item to that plane to get us there.

LIAM: We start in Vasselheim.

MARISHA: You said your god, the Raven Queen, she's
the one who transitions people.

Maybe she can help.

LAURA: Does Pike have anything attuned to
Sarenrae, though?

LIAM: Oh, to Sarenrae? I don't think they're in
the same place.

MATT: Ashley, were you about to ask a question?

ASHLEY: Shit, what was I going to say?

SAM: Is her symbol attuned?

MATT: Being attuned to a deity isn't being attuned
to a plane of existence, and those things can be--

the attunement process. You don't know much about
what that would entail, but you imagine that would

have something to do with a place of very strong
holy worship of that particular deity.

LIAM: I'm going to assume that sometime in the
last year and a half, these two have told you that

I dipped into a bathtub full of blood.

SAM: I was gone.

LAURA: No, you weren't.

LIAM: You just weren't paying attention, buddy.
The temples in Vasselheim are old. The oldest,

including the temple that you helped pull out of
the dirt. If anywhere is attuned to the gods, it

is Vasselheim.

TRAVIS: Ooh! What about Kord? I'm wearing his oven
mitts.

LIAM: There you go.

TRAVIS: Oh shit.

MARISHA: Does that mean I should go talk to
Melora?

TRAVIS: Are we straight-up god recruiting? Is that
what you mean? Do gods talk to each other?

LAURA: Yeah, the Raven Queen and Sarenrae are best
buds, aren't they?

MARISHA: I feel like when you're in the same
clique, when you're on the same level,

everyone talks, right?

LAURA: It's a small group of people. They have
to.

TALIESIN: I think what Vax is trying to say is we
need patrons.

LAURA: Patrons.

TALIESIN: We need patronage.

TRAVIS: What do you mean?

TALIESIN: We're not enough. We are not enough for
this. We are going to all die horribly if we try

anything like that again.

TRAVIS: We need them with us, or they're going to
imbue us--

TALIESIN: I don't know.

LIAM: Pelor lives here.

LAURA: Lives here in the Feywild?

LIAM: Pelor.

TALIESIN: Oh god.

LIAM: All of us, your family.

TALIESIN: We have to deal with this.

MARISHA: So we have a short list, is what we're
saying.

TALIESIN: We need to get a slightly longer list,
and we have to start begging. We are going to owe

favors. We are going to owe our lives. We are
going to lose.

LAURA: Are we really going to pledge allegiance to
a bunch of different gods?

That's what we're going to do?

TRAVIS: That could be cool.

TALIESIN: We'll see.

MARISHA: Do we each get different suits, matching
suits, but in different colors? God powers?

TRAVIS: No, you're taking it too-- relax a little.
Do you want some ale?

LAURA: Like Captain Planet?

TRAVIS: Who's your god going to be? Is there a god
of mischief or song or cubes?

MATT: Make a religion check.

SAM: A religion check? 14. Do I add my
jack-of-all?

MATT: Yeah, you do.

SAM: 17.

MATT: 17. There is the Moon Weaver.

SAM: The Moon Weaver?

TRAVIS: (singing) Oh, moon weaver!

MATT: She is the god of moonlight and the autumn
season, as well as the patron of

illusions and misdirection.

LAURA: Who is that?

SAM: The Moon Weaver. A god that I've heard of
once, and therefore will pledge my eternal

allegiance to.

LAURA: You did?

SAM: No, we're god-spitballing here.

LAURA: The Moon Weaver? They have a temple to her
in Syngorn.

SAM: I have an Ioun Stone.

MATT: Ioun.

LAURA: Ioun is the goddess of knowledge.

MARISHA: Put her on our to-call list.

SAM: But I've been praying to Sarenrae lately.

ASHLEY: What if I were to channel divinity and try
to make a prayer and be like, hey, can we come up

there right quick?

MARISHA: Is it better to do that here or on the
Prime Material Plane? Or does it really matter?

ASHLEY: I don't know.

SAM: They don't care, right?

LIAM: Let's go back to your temple.

TALIESIN: We also probably want to alert the
mortal coil that everything has gone to shit.

MARISHA: Also, the longer we're here, potentially,
the more time gets wonky.

LIAM: We're on a ticking clock, here.

LAURA: Let's go to Vasselheim.

ASHLEY: I like this idea. It's a little crazy, but
I like it.

SAM: We should start with one god and see how it
goes.

LAURA: Start with one that really likes you. So
Sarenrae's a good call there.

ASHLEY: We'll work our way through in a montage.

LIAM: Worked for me.

ASHLEY: A god-tage.

TRAVIS: Do we hold hands?

SAM: Do we all get tattoos? (singing) We need a
god-tage!

ASHLEY and LAURA: Vasselheim.

MATT: To Vasselheim.

SAM: Wait, we're just going to go?

LAURA: Wait, we didn't talk to Artagan. Artagan,
are you here?

LIAM: Is that how it works?

LAURA: Can you hear us? Do you want to help us?

TALIESIN: Maybe if we do something even stupider
than holding hands in a circle.

TRAVIS: Did any werewolves show up?

MATT: No.

MARISHA: Okay, let's go.

LAURA: Right as we go, I start howling.

(howling)

MATT: And with a singular howl, you all shift out
of the Feywild and then rapidly appear right on

the outskirts of the outer wall of Vasselheim. You
see the large, almost Sumerian-looking structures

and walls that surround the outside. The ancient
architecture of the place definitely has the

oldest look, and you remember seeing it from the
top when you flew in through your first skyship

arrival into Vasselheim. The snow-covered ground
and snow-covered trees as

part of the Vesper Timberland.

MARISHA: I immediately look around in a 360, very
quickly. Does there look like any big cities that

should not be here?

MATT: You can make a perception check.

LIAM: Is there a city on top of the city?

MARISHA: 19.

MATT: As you arrive, there's a weird fuzziness in
your mind in regards to--

LAURA: Oh shit. Oh god, what if it's been years?

MATT: I would like all of you guys to make a
wisdom saving throw, please.

MARISHA: What?

LAURA: We could lose our memories!

MARISHA: Wisdom saving throws?

MATT: Yes.

TRAVIS: Not a problem.

LAURA: We're immune to that, right? People with
fey ancestry?

LIAM: No, it's charm or sleep.

MATT: Creatures who have fey ancestry are immune
to it, yeah.

LIAM: Damn it! I used luck and I rolled the same
thing on both.

MATT: You're immune.

LIAM: For charm and sleep?

MATT: If you have the fey ancestry trait, you're
immune.

TALIESIN: I had to burn a resolve.

MARISHA: Am I?

LAURA: Yeah, you have it, too. You're a half-elf.

MATT: Saving throw, yes.

ASHLEY: I have advantage because of gnome
cunning?

MATT: It's not a spell or magical effect. It's a
planar effect, so I'd say no. What did you get?

ASHLEY: 14.

MATT: 14.

TRAVIS: Eight.

SAM: Can I inspire myself?

MATT: Yeah. No, can you do it on a saving throw?

SAM: I don't know. It's ability checks, only.

MATT: I think it's just ability checks. Let me
check, just to be safe.

TALIESIN: I burned a resolve. I've got to make
sure that I can use the resolve.

MATT: Yeah, ability checks.

SAM: Nine.

MATT: Nine?

TALIESIN: Can I use resolve on this? Okay, in that
case, 20.

MATT: Okay, so as you guys all arrive on the
outside of Vasselheim, the cold air hits you.

Grog, Scanlan: Vax is there alive in front of
you.

SAM: Holy shit.

MATT: The last thing you saw was him turn to dust,
and you guys left the Shadowfell, and then from

the Shadowfell and this battle, you've just now
returned, not as wounded as you were before.

SAM: What happened? What's going on? Where are we?
Who am I? What happened? What's going on?

TRAVIS: I have to pee.

MARISHA: (laughs) Yeah, bringing it back.

LAURA: Didn't you lose your memory last time? Did
we ever realize that

you lost your memory the last time?

TRAVIS: I don't know.

(laughter)

TRAVIS: Are you real?

TALIESIN: He is abundantly real.

ASHLEY: Can I Greater Restoration them?

LAURA: Is that how we did it before?

ASHLEY: I don't know how you did it before because
I don't think I was here.

TRAVIS: This is weird for you, right?

SAM: Totally. He was dead a second ago. Now he's
alive.

TRAVIS: Is there still dust in your pocket?

MATT: Anything that can end a curse works for it.

SAM: I draw my whip. I whip him in the face. I'm
whipping Vax.

LAURA: What are you doing? Scanlan, stop it! Stop
it!

SAM: He's not real. He's an illusion. He's an
illusion!

MATT: Roll an attack roll.

SAM: Two!

(laughter)

SAM: Oh, my eye! Why does my eye hurt so much?

(laughter)

TRAVIS: What's with your eye?

SAM: I don't know! It shouldn't have hurt that
much.

LIAM: We'll call this a victory for you. You have
won this day. Scanlan Shorthalt is your name.

We're in Vasselheim.

SAM: We are?

LIAM: We're in Vasselheim.

SAM: We were just fighting a god.

ASHLEY: We were in the Feywild for a little while,
and then took a nap there, and then we came here.

MARISHA: In the long run, I think this is going to
be better for you.

MATT: Scanlan, as this is happening, Pike walks up
and touches her hand on you, and there's a flash

of warm energy through your body, and suddenly the
memories rush back to you from the Feywild.

SAM: Oh god.

LAURA: That's why your eye hurts.

SAM: His testicles hung so low!

TRAVIS: What?

LIAM: Mine, or Vecna's?

SAM: Yours.

LAURA: Vecna was wearing a big dress, so we
probably could have seen his balls.

MATT: Magical muumuu? Flying above the whole
time.

ASHLEY: I'll go over and touch Grog, too.

MATT: Okay. That's two Greater Restorations. The
memory returns to you of the Feywild.

TRAVIS: (gasps) Oh, I don't have to pee.

(laughter)

TALIESIN: This makes me wonder if you've been doing
it wrong this whole time.

LIAM: It's whenever he remembers.

MATT: Vax. You feel this small, pounding headache
in your head. It's a very faint burn.

LIAM: I actually have this.

MATT: Yeah. You shake your head, and it changes in
your head, based on where you're facing.

TRAVIS and LAURA: What?

LIAM: Duskmeadow?

MATT: No. It's... make a survival check to try and
figure out where

you are around the city of Vasselheim.

LIAM: 19.

MATT: Okay. Based on looking at the placement of
the sun in the sky, looking at the mountain range

that this is built on the northern side of the
city, you get the sense that you guys are close to

the perfectly south side of Vasselheim, the
entrance that leads toward the Quad Roads in the

center. That burning sensation, it seems to be
localized. No matter where you turn your head,

it's pointing that direction, to the northwest of
your current location, and the more you

concentrate on it, the more you feel that hatred
and loathing curl and push in that direction. You

know what lies in that direction.

LIAM: Do I have a sense of distance, or just
direction?

MATT: Let me double-check.

LAURA: He knows where Vecna is?

SAM: Or something.

LAURA: Cool.

MATT: Let me double-check here, real fast.

LIAM: Vec-dar.

TALIESIN: Vecna-dar.

LIAM: What's your Vecna, Victor?

MATT: You know the distance, yeah.

SAM: You know the distance?

MATT: You roughly know, about 350 miles from where
you stand, to the northwest.

350 to 400 miles northwest.

ASHLEY: She gave you a Vecna compass.

LAURA: That's badass. 350 miles. How far is that
from us right now? Where is that in distance?

SAM: Sonoma.

LAURA: Really? It's that close? Okay.

TRAVIS: It ain't close. It's eight hours.

LAURA: Eight-hour drive? Okay.

SAM: Wait, are we taking the hybrid?

ASHLEY: Stop off, go to wine country.

MATT: It'll be fun.

LIAM: The burn that I feel. There's no question
what it is for him.

MATT: This is part of your charge. This was part
of the deal that you struck.

TRAVIS: What deal? You wanna tell us 
what deal it was?

LIAM: You don't hear any of that shit. It's in my
head.

TRAVIS: Okay.

MATT: You are the Raven Queen's homing missile.

TRAVIS: Fucking A.

LIAM: So I'm going to need those boots back.

LAURA: Why?

LIAM: Because I'm a missile.

LAURA: I don't know what you're talking about.

LIAM: Well, you think about it. You think about
what you've done. I know you'll do the right

thing, eventually.

TRAVIS: I have a random thought. While y'all are
trying to go get Sarenrae, this is where the story of

the Lord of the Quad Roads is. If you're not
familiar with the Lord of the Quad Roads, he was a

gentleman that just very quickly came into fame
and fortune, and he's a personal friend of mine,

and I thought I might try and go find him for a
favor. You know, one of those people if you pop in

town, they get real pissed if you don't stop by.

LIAM: Is he a god?

TRAVIS: Maybe? Could be. Not sure.

LIAM: We don't have a lot of time, so do you think
you could split off with somebody?

TRAVIS: Yeah. I'll meet you up where we were.

SAM: Where are we going?

LAURA: To the temple of Sarenrae.

LIAM: To your temple.

TALIESIN: You may not want me in company for
Sarenrae.

LIAM: I'm pretty sure we want your brain around,
Percy. I know you're uncomfortable around all this

shit, but I want you to fucking suck it up.

TALIESIN: I just don't want to say the wrong
thing.

LAURA: I walk up to him and put my hands on the
sides of his face.

I can't have you away from me right now.

TALIESIN: This is a deeply-inappropriate
convincing mena-men-mechanism. It is working. All right.

SAM: She's beautiful.

TALIESIN: You're a terrible person!

LIAM: I mean, she's okay.

MARISHA: Do we need to stop by the temple of the
Raven Queen?

LIAM: I don't think we do.

LAURA: You just had a really long conversation
with her.

LIAM: I don't think we do.

MARISHA: Okay.

ASHLEY: To Sarenrae?

LIAM: Grog, are you splitting off?

TRAVIS: Yeah. It's real important.

LIAM: You can stay on task, though, right?

TRAVIS: Yeah. I could just pop in, give him a
little fist bump, and I'll

meet you at Sarenrae's hovel.

MARISHA: Do you want a teammate to go with you?

LIAM: Yeah, I think you need a minder.

MARISHA: Do you want to pick someone?

TRAVIS: Fancy a trip?

SAM: With you, Grog?

TRAVIS: Yeah!

SAM: Just the two of us, wandering through a city
together?

TRAVIS: Yep. You know, totally behaving
ourselves.

LIAM: Do you see this?

SAM: Do I see what?

LIAM: He's relaxed.

SAM: You're right. I should go with him. All
right, let's go. We'll see you at the temple.

Don't go to heaven without us.

LAURA: Of course not.

SAM: All right.

LAURA: Sarenrae's a big fan of the cube.

MARISHA: Where was the Melora grove thing?

MATT: Oh, you're talking about the--

MARISHA: That we buried Senokir's wife's ashes.

MATT: You're referring to the Abundant Terrace,
within the Birth Heart.

MARISHA: Where is that?

MATT: The Birth Heart would be on the northeastern
side of the city.

MARISHA: But it's here?

MATT: Yeah.

MARISHA: Should I go talk to Melora? Should I go
try and recruit Melora?

Team Sarenrae and Team Melora?

LIAM: Maybe.

TALIESIN: Let's do one at a time.

LIAM: Yeah.

MARISHA: I'm just trying to save time.

TALIESIN: I think we're a bit beyond that, at this
point.

TRAVIS: Besides, we'd know if Old Shit Nuts is
moving closer because of--

LIAM: I just know what my patron charged me with.
That doesn't mean I understand what it means, so I

think we should start with one.

TALIESIN: We're eventually going to have to tell
somebody in charge what's happening. But to

Sarenrae! Let's get this ball rolling.

LAURA: Let's do it!

MATT: All right, so you two are splitting off and
the rest of you are going to Sarenrae? All right.

The five of you make your way through the Quad
Roads, towards the northern side of the Quad Roads

before it splits off at the base of the mountain
and before it divides off towards the Abundant

Terrace and the Trial Forge. The Braving Grounds.
That is where you spent a lot of time raising the

temple of the Everlight, Sarenrae. Traversing
there on the cold day, the city seems to be as

vibrant as ever, and as dour as ever, as is the
nature of those who live in these northern lands,

but you know, smiles and existence come together
occasionally. You come to the temple. It looks

well-kept. The various clerics and acolytes that
you had assigned to watch over it in your absence

over this past year and a half before you ventured
out to defeat the Conclave seem to have taken good

care, and it's warming to your heart to see what
appears to be children stepping out, laughing with

their parents in what seems to have been a small
service of some kind. And as you begin to watch

and approach, you can see the acolytes that are
saying goodbye to those at the front door glance

over and see your face, and they brighten
immediately. There you go, clear your nose.

Acolyte Sheila, who is one of the older women who
first helped you raise it and became one of your

first acolytes here at the temple. The temple
which is being known now as the Temple of Renewal.

It is the official title of the location, which is
taken from the realm of Sarenrae, known as the

Island of Renewal. As she sees your face, Acolyte
Sheila goes, "Pike! Mistress Pike!" And runs up

and takes you in her arms. She tries to lift you,
but you're far too heavy with the armor. (grunts)

ASHLEY: That's okay. I'm heavier than I look.

MATT: "Yes, of course."

ASHLEY: Pure muscle.

MATT: You guys see this woman in probably her
late-forties or early-fifties, mostly gray-silver

hair with streaks and bits of a dark brown. It's
put back in some sort of a bun with a large stick

through the center to hold it in place. She's wearing
robes of light blue and gold, very much in the way

that you've seen Pike wear most of her equipment
and earlier armor to her deity. She looks around.

"Well, my apologies. I am Sheila, and I know who
you are. We've heard much. You are welcome. You

"are welcome here at the Temple of Renewal. Please
come in."

ASHLEY: It looks lovely in here. You guys have
really kept it up quite nice.

MATT: "The hard part was already done. Come into
her light, please." And leads you all into this

tower. The excavation site here. What was once a
large pit, below which the original temple was,

the edges have been ground down to be this slow
decline, and a tower was risen up. The actual

stonework was ascended about 15 feet up, so it's
not quite street level; it's a little below, but

it's this small bowl that leads to the tower
itself, and then it rises up a good 30 feet.

LAURA: You did this?

MARISHA: This is great, Pike.

LAURA: Holy shit!

ASHLEY: Not all by myself.

MARISHA: Is this how you learned all of your
stoneworking stuff?

ASHLEY: Yeah!

MARISHA: It's good, like a druid could do it. It's
very impressive.

ASHLEY: That's a compliment.

(laughter)

MARISHA: Good craftsmanship.

ASHLEY: Sheila. (sighs) We're trying to figure out
the best way to... what am I trying to say, here?

We're trying to go to Sarenrae, but actually go to
her. Not in the sense of the mind, actually

walking up and saying hello.

MARISHA: I didn't realize how crazy it sounds
until you say it out loud.

ASHLEY: When I started, I realized this is so
weird.

MATT: "That's a bit beyond my realm. Perhaps we
should speak to Acolyte Vincent Clore. He's the

"keeper of knowledge and scripture. He'd probably
be more help than I."

ASHLEY: Okay.

LAURA: Can you try just talking to Sarenrae?

ASHLEY: I could try. Of course, but maybe he will
know which plane she's on and we can head there.

Sometimes she doesn't talk to me. I can always
try, since we're in here.

MATT: What do you want to do?

ASHLEY: I'll go ahead and try. You know what? Let
me say a prayer real quick, Sheila.

LIAM: Want to take a knee, everybody?

ASHLEY: Percy, it's fine. You don't need to.

TALIESIN: No. In for a penny.

ASHLEY: Let's all take a knee.

MATT: The tower itself is a fairly wide tower. 30
feet high at street level. It's about 45 feet full

height from where the baseline rising it was and
the rest of the tower that's been assembled beyond

that. On the inside, there are four floors, all of
which have a hollow center about ten feet across,

for in the center of the entire tower is one long,
thin, ascending tower of what looks to be a

sculpture of stone and gold and platinum-colored
angels and clouds that all turn and twist. It

rises up like this thin spire of sculpture, and
there at the very top, you see the phoenix-like

wings clutching the ruby stone at the top, the
symbol of Sarenrae. As you step to the base of

this structure, which you haven't even seen
finished; you left before this was completed. It's

awe-inspiring to see this thing that you saw the
very early stages of come into creation, and now

it's strangely comforting to know that for all the
effort that you put in, for all the strange

responsibility you put on yourself, that none of
this would get done if you weren't there, it's

comforting to know that even without your
presence, it can carry on to completion. And that

as it is with worship, you don't need to helm it.
Once you give it a shove,

it carries itself forward.

You close your eyes and you kneel below at the
base of this amazing statue, one of the few only

standing to her direct worship of its size,
of any note to the world at this time.

What do you say as your prayer?

ASHLEY: Well, I'm back here, and this is so
beautiful. I'm sure you've seen and have... seen

what's happened where we were, and I know the last
time we talked, you warned me and told me that you

wouldn't be there, but I think we're past the
point of being able to do this on our own, just

our mortal selves, and we need bigger help. Might
I ask for (sighs) your-- please help us. I don't

know what else to say. This is beyond us now.

MATT: As the words leave your mouth, yourself
prostrate before the temple you helped build with

your own hands, you open your eyes, but you see
not the temple before you. You see, instead,

around you essences of a vision that have been
blurred at the edges, but now come clear. You see

around you sandy shores, pearlescent almost. White
sand that glitters in your presence, just at the

peripheral, glass gems, diamonds, you can't tell,
but the light that hits it seems to just sparkle

and give off this light. You hear water around you
rushing up and pulling back from the shore. You

see statues, so many statues before you, and one
that appears to be a glass fortress, a spire that

rises up crystalline, translucent, but seeming to
glow with the flicker of an internal flame's

heartbeat. As you look up at the top of the
temple, you see the wings unfurl, drift towards

you, and you see coming towards you the physical
form of the Everlight herself. Her darkened skin,

her beautiful smile, her light hair leaving a
trail of flame and gold and sunlight behind. She

comes forth and drifts right before you and says,
"Then the time is right for us to meet. Come. Come

"and join me on the Island of Renewal, within the
blessed fields of Elysium. Here, we can speak."

ASHLEY: I immediately take a knee. Thank you for
letting me come here. Just to see you, and-- we

will come to you.

MATT: Her hands reach out and clasp yours, and the
warmth of her touch is hot. You feel like it's

borderline burning, but it doesn't hurt. You
instinctually, that animalistic essence of primal

life tells you to pull back, but you don't. It's a
comforting heat, like holding a cup of fresh, hot

tea. She seems to almost lift you off the feet, up
to her. And her size, which was so vast and

immense seems to come to meet yours one-on-one.
She goes, "Then come. You have the tools. You have

"the means. I await." And as she lets go, you look
down in your hand and you see what appears to be a

small little piece of curved metal made of a
bright, polished platinum, like a U. As you look

up to her again, you're just staring at the
statue. You're staring around the temple. You look

down at your hand, but the item remains.

MARISHA: She just gave us a key!

LAURA: What happened?

ASHLEY: Did you guys see anything?

LAURA: We saw you praying and you had this crazy
look in your eyes.

LIAM: You looked blissful.

LAURA: So happy.

ASHLEY: Wow! Well, I went there. I went to the
Island of Renewal; that's where she is. And she

gave this to me.

LAURA: What is it?

MARISHA: Do I recognize what it is?

SAM: It's an IUD.

(laughter)

LAURA: You're not here!

LIAM: We all hear Scanlan Shorthalt's voice in our
minds.

ASHLEY: Over the earring. Shut up, Scanlan.

MATT: Structurally similar, I suppose.

ASHLEY: No, it's not.

SAM: Of course not.

MATT: I can give, and I can take away. (laughs)
It's different in the designs that have been

crafted, that have been a little more crude. This
has, once you reach out and touch it, it has that

vibration to it, that hint of attuned activity to
the metal, the pure metal, that definitely gives

you some semblance of direction in your subtle
understanding of the inner and outer planes and

the general cosmology that surrounds Exandria.

LAURA: She gave us a key to find her.

MARISHA: She gave us a key to Plane Shift there.
This is the tuning fork that I needed.

LAURA: What the-- wow!

TALIESIN: Let's let people know.

ASHLEY: That was cool. Vax, you have a very
different relationship with your god, but--

awesome! That was cool!

LAURA: What was she like?

ASHLEY: She was so beautiful! And just glowed. No!
And I just can't even describe it, she just glowed

and it felt like-- do you remember the movie
Contact?

(laughter)

LAURA: Yeah!

SAM: You mean the old scroll?

ASHLEY: Yes, the old scroll Contact, where she
gets to the beach and her dad is there? That's

what it felt like!

LAURA: Wow!

ASHLEY: I need to go back there! Let's all go!

MARISHA: Hang on. Do other gods live there?

MATT: Make a religion check.

LIAM: And we're waiting on a guy, too, aren't we?
The lady, Sheila, ran off--

ASHLEY: 23.

MATT: 23. She mentioned the blessed fields of
Elysium. Sarenrae, as you know, the general

understanding of her existence in the pantheon had
been faded for a while. There was a betrayal to

her in the Calamity and most of her following was
annihilated. As gods, as they currently exist,

their worship is what sustains their importance
and viability in the various planes. She

diminished, so her location, her home, has been
kept from most existing scripture and worship both

for her protection and those of her followers. So
the existence of the Island of Renewal and where

it may be have only recently come to your
attention. The blessed fields of Elysium, though,

they are a fairly well-known location in religious
circles, and is also home to the Fortress of the

Sun, the home of Pelor, the Dawnfather.

TRAVIS: Holy shit.

LAURA: That's convenient.

MATT: Different area on the plane. The Fortress of
the Sun.

LAURA: (singing) Fortress of the Sun.

MATT: The blessed fields of Elysium are an idyllic
plane of good.

LIAM: Are these things Pike knows because of her
expertise, or does everyone in the world know a

certain amount about?

MATT: They know the gods, and they know the
realms, but the name of the plane? This is known

to her because of her study of religion. This is
more of an academic understanding of the real

essence of the gods, where they come from.

ASHLEY: I didn't think it was going to work!
Sheila, I think--

MATT: Sheila begins to return two minutes later
with acolyte Vincent Clor, who's this

mousy-looking guy. His eyes are smaller than they
should be it seems for the size of his round face,

he comes up with a big toothy grin. "I was told
that you were seeking my presence,

"wonderful Mistress Pike."

ASHLEY: It's wonderful to see you, Vincent. I'm so
sorry she went to go get you. I think we might be

okay, and we got some answers.

TALIESIN: We should probably tell them what's
going on. People should start to prepare

themselves for what's coming. We can't just keep
this to ourselves.

LAURA: This could affect everyone.

TALIESIN: This is going to affect everyone.

TRAVIS: (whispering) Tell no one

TALIESIN: You're not here! You went shopping.

SAM: We're in the House of Lady Favors of Renewal
right now.

MATT: I'll get to you guys in a moment.

ASHLEY: You, obviously, have heard of Vecna.

MATT: "No, I don't."

LAURA: So there's this guy. He's a shithead. Okay,
there's this guy.

MATT: "Right, okay."

LAURA: He wanted to be a god, but he wasn't a
god.

MARISHA: Three mimosas later, and three hours
later...

LAURA: We explain the story of Vecna and tell him
he's back.

MARISHA: (slurring) And he totally didn't call us
back! And I told him

I'm not getting back together again.

MATT: "Sounds like a really, really bad man."

LAURA: He's here.

MATT: "He's here?"

LAURA: He's here on this plane, and he's trying to
become a god, and who knows, maybe he succeeded.

How long were we in the Feywild? Do we even know
that for sure?

MARISHA: Did I figure that out with my check, or
no?

LAURA: What's the date?

MARISHA: Yeah, how much time has it been?

MATT: The date would be--

SAM: Is there a calendar system?

MATT: Yes, there is.

LAURA: But we don't know it.

TALIESIN: So he's going to tell us a date that
will mean nothing to us because we don't actually

know the date we left because we don't know how
dates work.

LIAM: I think it's Bidetsday. Yeah, Bidetsday.

TALIESIN: Bidusday, Bidetsday.

LIAM: Let's see. Bidetsday.

TALIESIN: Bidusday, Biwhatsday. Biheyhay.

MATT: Hold on, I'm having to look it up because
you did this to me.

TALIESIN: This is like watching the DND icon
crash.

MARISHA: It's frozen!

MATT: "It is the 12th day of Misothar of 812 PD?"

LAURA: Oh, of course it is! Does that sound normal
to us?

MATT: It sounds like the exact same day that you
left, actually.

TALIESIN: Well, that's convenient.

MARISHA: It's the same day we left? Oh, cool! We
lucked out! Yay!

MATT: You did luck out! I was like, oh man!
There's a chance they could show up and have

missed the whole thing. I would have had to change
a lot, but that would have been fun. That would

have been fun.

LAURA: For one roll.

MATT: From one roll, yeah. Hey, Feywild's a
dangerous thing when timetables--

LIAM: Hey, buddy, you missed your window!

ASHLEY: So basically, we're going to need a lot of
help, and please stay in prayer.

LAURA: Get ready to fight, Vincent. Get ready to
fucking fight.

MATT: You look at Sheila and Vincent, who look
like anyone's in-laws, and go,

"Very well, Mistress, right?" 
"Yes, we'll do our best."

LAURA: PS, do you know anything about the fields
of Elysium?

TALIESIN: Did you just say PS to someone? Did you
say that out loud?

MATT: "Yes, they are a home to souls who champion
the cause of good outside the forces of law and

"chaos. It's a beautiful place, from what the tales
say. Many who go never leave. It's so beautiful."

LAURA: What gods live there?

MATT: "As far as I know, only the Dawnfather
himself." The Dawnfather is Pelor.

"That's all I know. My research is limited."

LAURA: Right. Should you tell him?

ASHLEY: I don't feel like I want to.

TALIESIN: Let's gather the boys and alert whatever
government we can.

LAURA: You guys, thank you for your help today.

ASHELY: It was wonderful to see you guys again.

MATT: "Of course, my pleasure, Mistress Pike. Good
luck. Hopefully, you'll stop this thing."

ASHLEY: Hopefully we will. Please pray for us.

MARISHA: Amazing work. If you need any landscaping done, don't
be afraid to ask.

Pike can get you in touch with me.

LAURA: Melora is really good at it, too. We should
talk to Melora.

MARISHA: Yeah, it's fine. We know people.

ASHLEY: Thank you. Keep up the good work. You're
doing, just, all the great stuff.

MATT: "Thank you!"

LAURA: I like the idea that anywhere we go, we
embarrass the one person that knows anybody else.

MATT: Yep. You're those friends. They smile and
walk away, but Vincent Clor definitely seems a bit

shaken by the knowledge that you just brought to
him. But you make your way out of the temple.

Where are you off to? What's your next direction?

LIAM: I will note that Vax feels a slight sense
of bittersweet pride at the amount of bliss that

Pike just went through. Just a little bit.

MATT: You two. Where you going?

TRAVIS: All right, so I know this guy named the
Lord of the Quad Roads. Back up. While you were

gone-- were you gone? I'm not sure. Did you know
that I have this little magical thing?

SAM: No?

TRAVIS: No. Okay.

(laughter)

TRAVIS: So because you kept my secret about Craven
Edge, and you never told anybody about that,

right? Not one time. Never told anyone. I'm going
to confide in you about this thing. I found this

little deck of cards, and I was like, oh, I'm
going to pull a card out! And I did, and I got a

magic weapon! I could throw it and it would start
fighting and stuff. But that turned to rust. And

so I was like, I wanted to pull more out. But Vex
was like, no, it's so dangerous!

SAM: That's a good impression. She can be that
way.

TRAVIS: So I went to Vasselheim. Actually, I was
looking for you, you little shitstack. And I was

like, hey, I've got an idea! (explosion) Boom! In
my head!

SAM: I got it the first time.

(laughter)

TALIESIN: This is the best retelling of this
ever.

TRAVIS: I was like, I'm going to find a guy to
pull out cards for me, see what happens!

SAM: Because you were afraid or because she said
you can't?

TRAVIS: Well, I heard her nagging me in my head.

SAM: Conscience.

TRAVIS: Yeah.

(laughter)

TRAVIS: Sure. So I got this drunk guy on the
street and I was like, hey, pull out a card. And

guess what? He pulled a card, and he got wishes!

SAM: Did you get wishes?

TRAVIS: No! Because fucking I made him pick it. So
he goes, ooh! And all of a sudden, he was in fancy

clothes and he had a servant that appeared in the
alley!

SAM: Did he thank you?

TRAVIS: He was like, thanks! I guess I have two
more of these! And he fucking ran off!

SAM: Wait! He took your cards and he left?

TRAVIS: No, he pulled the one card and it
disappeared in his hand. Right? And then he walked

off. But the point is: he's got two more wishes!

SAM: On him.

TRAVIS: Yeah! And I told him, Grog! Grog gave you
those! Remember me!

SAM: Just so I'm clear. We're going to go, grab
him, steal his wishes, leave him in a ditch

somewhere. Is that the plan? What's our game
here?

TRAVIS: I'm not opposed to it.

SAM: What's our game? What are we trying to get?

TRAVIS: I thought, maybe, if we walked in and I
had a title like Grog the Wish Giver, and we were

calling to check in on him, that maybe it's time
to pay his tithe to the Wish Giver, and maybe he

would give us one of the two.

SAM: Okay, so our game is to intimidate him into
having him give you one of the wishes back.

TRAVIS: Yeah! Or pressure him. Lay it on thick. We
could say like, "Your fucking face is going to

"fall off if you don't give me one of your
remaining wishes."

SAM: What happened to the deck of cards?

TRAVIS: Oh, I've still got them.

SAM: Why are we going back to get-- oh! He has
more wishes!

Not more cards, he has more wishes!

TRAVIS: Yes!

SAM: And he should give one to us. What would you
wish for?

TRAVIS: Well. (haltingly) For peace on Exandria,
right?

SAM: You don't seem enthusiastic about that wish.

TRAVIS: I want to live forever! Just never die! I
just want to him to go,

you will never die. I'm happy.

SAM: That's a better wish for you, for sure. And
we have two of them.

TRAVIS: Aren't you really old, though? You get
company.

SAM: That's true. It'd be nice having you around
for a bit.

TRAVIS: What would you wish for?

SAM: Peace on--

TRAVIS: I mean, enough of the bullshit.

SAM: Yeah, well, probably. Do you just get one
wish?

Because I could be a littler taller, a 
little buffer.

TRAVIS: Yeah, I think maybe you can get real
descriptive with it, too,

so you can make it real complicated.

SAM: What would I wish for?

TRAVIS: Maybe think about it while we're on our
way. Yeah! How about we go and we pressure him and

then if he doesn't bite, then we kill him.

SAM: Take this hat, it's the Hat of Disguise. Put
it on, and you can look however you want to look.

TRAVIS: I want to look like me. He's going to
remember me.

SAM: Well, then never mind that.

TRAVIS: You're the idea man.

SAM: I'm sorry! You're throwing a lot at me!

TRAVIS: Warm it up, son. Let's get the bad ones
out of the way right now. Shake it off.

SAM: All right. What do we need to intimidate him?
Do you need me to be your enforcer?

TRAVIS: Yeah! Or maybe my manservant. Can you make
me look really amazing?

SAM: You already look amazing.

TRAVIS: But rich and Wish Giver-y.

SAM: Yeah. Take this hat and put it on.

(laughter)

SAM: And now you can look however you think you
should look!

(laughter)

LIAM: Everybody at the table is broken!

(laughter)

TRAVIS: I want to look like a sultan.

MATT: It doesn't do anything. You have to attune
to it. At this point in time, by the way, you

watch as four armed guards start approaching.

TRAVIS: I have a great record with these guys.

LAURA: Oh no! Oh no!

SAM: Are they approaching us?

MATT: They're approaching you, and two on the
sides are spreading out, and two are walking up

with purpose towards you guys.

SAM: The popo. We haven't done anything wrong,
we're just talking on the street! We're just two

guys! Yeah! We haven't done any magic!

MATT: As the two come to the flank and stop, hands
on the sides of their spears, the two that walked

up the middle, there's one that looks to be a
captain of some kind and this one to his right

who's dressed in standard guard gear looks like
he's got a few long-healed scars and he goes,

"That looks just like him."

SAM: Oh no. What did you do?

LAURA: What did you do?

MARISHA: You were with him as Tary!

SAM: I wasn't there!

(laughter)

MATT: The one in adorned armor. "Sir, might I have
your name and purpose here in Vasselheim?"

TRAVIS: (high-pitched) Peter Frostbucket! I seek
Lord of the Quad Roads!

MATT: (giggling) Make a deception check with
disadvantage.

TRAVIS: I don't need it! Negative one!

(laughter)

SAM: Oh my god. We're going to have to kill some
guards, aren't we?

(laughter)

TRAVIS: Two and a one.

MARISHA: They did that, not us!

LIAM: Sarenrae comes down and says, never mind!

TALIESIN: Your picture is going to be up in a
small office by the gates.

MATT: The captain-looking individual goes, "Right,
Mr. Frostbucket. We would like the both of you to

"please come with us." The two guards rush into
your flank a bit and place their hands on your

shoulder and your shoulder.

SAM: Me? I just met this man. I've never seen him
before in my life.

MATT: "You've been walking with him for 20
minutes."

SAM: Thank you for coming over here. He was
holding me hostage. He wouldn't let me leave. I'm

a small man. I'm defenseless, and he was holding
me captive.

MATT: You make a deception check.

SAM: Deception. Okay, 24.

LAURA: Ooh, what is that eyebrow?

MATT: It's a natural 20! He goes, "Really. And
what's your name?"

SAM: Gerald Butler.

(laughter)

MATT: "Uh-huh. Well, Gerald Butler, the two of you
should come with us." He turns around and starts

walking away. The other guard with him, the one
who spotted you earlier, walks with him, but keeps

looking over his shoulder at you. He looks
genuinely terrified of you. At this point, you

realize, oh yeah, you've seen this guy before. The
two other guards shove you forward, and as they

push you a couple of steps in that direction, they
lower their spears towards your back,

"Keep moving!"

TRAVIS: Oh, yeah, sorry. Aside from the four
around us, is anyone around?

MATT: Yeah, there's probably roughly 20 to 25
different townsfolk.

SAM: We just were walking down the street! What
happened?

TRAVIS: This is profiling.

SAM: This is racial profiling.

MATT: You carve a figure.

TRAVIS: Thank you.

SAM: You or me? All right.

TRAVIS: I mean, mine's do one thing. You've got
options.

SAM: All right. I will, I guess-- Jesus. It all
seems so stupid.

TRAVIS: I just want to go talk to the Lord of the
Crossroads!

TALIESIN: Critical Role: It all seems so stupid.

MATT: Yep! That's our catchphrase now.

SAM: All right, I will use some gigantic spell for
no reason.

MARISHA: Fighting gods one day, getting arrested
in the street the other day.

SAM: I can help me fine, it's you I need to deal
with.

TRAVIS: Manipulate that guy that recognized us.

SAM: Sure, but I don't know what he knows! I don't
know anything! All I know is he came over and

fingered you.

TRAVIS: He said, it looks like it's him.

SAM: All right. I will-- Jesus. Okay. Fuck! I
don't know what to do without causing everyone

around us to die or be scared! All right! Is there
a leader?

MATT: Yeah, there's the captain. The one that
looks scared looks over and says,

"Is your other friend around? The other big one?"

TRAVIS: Kind of blanched complexion, orange hair?

MATT: "Yeah with the--"

TRAVIS: Hits people in the face?

MATT: "That one."

TRAVIS: Somewhere around here.

MATT: Turns to the guard captain and goes,
"There's another one around here. Possibly two."

TRAVIS: You know, the thing about that one,
though, he doesn't like to leave loose ends.

MATT: Make an intimidation check.

TRAVIS: Goddamn it! 13!

LAURA: Stop rolling that one!

TRAVIS: No. I stay with my dice.

SAM: What did this other one look like?

TRAVIS: This other one?

SAM: Yes, the other one, what did he look like?

TRAVIS: Very tall and metallic-looking.

SAM: Metallic-looking?

TRAVIS: Yep.

SAM: You mean, the one we just saw around the
corner?

TRAVIS: We did! I was not really aware at the
time.

SAM: The super scary one?

TRAVIS: Yeah! Well, now that you mention it, I
felt a chill!

SAM: Please believe us. There is an even bigger
danger coming, and I think-- oh yes, it's right

there. And I will Major Image what I think he's
describing, which is a tall Iron Man.

MATT: All right. (laughs) First, make a deception
check to see if they look.

SAM: 20-- lots. 27.

MATT: You urging them on is just enough to get
them to glance over and look, which gives you

enough time to cast the spell and release this
image, and from around the corner, with heavy

footfalls, you watch as what appears to be some
horrific-looking iron golem-type entity that's

covered in spikes and darkness and giant fists.
(heavy impacts) People start screaming and

scattering, and the guards are all of a sudden.
(gasping)

TRAVIS: Oh no, his final change is complete!

SAM: Oh, he didn't look like this before?

TRAVIS: No, it's much worse!

SAM: It's much worse? Yes, it's much worse!

MATT: At which point, suddenly you watch as its
size expands even further. It has metal tusks that

now protrude from the front of its face, and it's
breathing steam and smoke, its eyes red and

glowing. (huffing)

TRAVIS: I trip and fall. Please, save yourselves!
Run!

MATT: The guard captain there, immediately seeing
this, reaches back and pulls a horn off his belt.

(horn blows)

TRAVIS: I'm going to kill him.

SAM: Don't kill him. We'll all die!

TRAVIS: I reach up and snap the horn.

MATT: (horn blows, cracking)

SAM: Horns make him angrier! And I'll make the
image go crazy with rage.

MATT: Angrily starts stomping around, not
affecting anything directly.

SAM: The only way to calm it down is if we slowly
walk away in different directions.

(laughter)

MATT: Make a deception check with disadvantage.

SAM: Okay. 24.

TALIESIN: (laughs) It's a 20.

SAM: It's a 20.

LAURA: I bet it's a 20.

TRAVIS: It's a 20.

(laughter)

TALIESIN: Oh god, this is everything I ever
wanted!

MATT: He glances back at you, reaches back, and
starts pulling a set of manacles from the side of

his belt and glances over at this image, and you
see the face of recognition, of somebody who now

knows exactly what you were up to. This guy is not
your petty wandering guard in the center of the

street, and while two other guards have rushed up to
try to push townsfolk out of the way, and they

have their spears drawn at this thrashing entity,
the captain goes, "Stop, it's not real." You now

see a bunch of other guards that are now, after
hearing the horn call,

rushing around the sides of the street.

TRAVIS: Well, you got us. Yep.

SAM: Should we turn ourselves in?

TRAVIS: Yeah. Sure, yeah. Lock me up first.

MATT: He comes over.

TRAVIS: (whack)

(laughter)

LAURA: No!

MATT: Roll an attack.

LAURA: You're starting a war with all of the
guards in Vasselheim?

TRAVIS: I don't think that far ahead.

SAM: They started this war. We're finishing it.

TRAVIS: 26.

MATT: Okay. Roll 1d4 damage with the Titanstone
Gauntlets and add your strength modifier.

LAURA: What are we going to do?

TALIESIN: Let's hire new guards.

TRAVIS: Ten.

MATT: Okay. The helmet he was wearing, which is
carved around the face and eyes and nose, as you

slam it with your fist, it caves in a bit, and he
immediately hits the ground and is dazed.

TRAVIS: Got to go.

MATT: The other guards, who were looking at him
when he shouted that, saw you deck him in the side

of the head, and they immediately start rushing to
his aid as the other guards are coming in on the

side of the street. What are you guys doing?

SAM: Are there any buildings around here?

MATT: There are plenty of buildings around here.
You guys are still walking through the Quad Roads,

and the Quad Roads is the most populated portion
of the city. The worship here of Erathis is

generally about civilization. There's a lot of
people and a lot of buildings around. What are you

going to do?

SAM: (sighs) You're bigger. All right, I will do
the old classic. I'm going to Polymorph Grog into

a giant eagle. The old standby. The giant eagle
trick, if you'll accept it.

TRAVIS: I'll get smarter. Sure.

MATT: All right. Grog, once again, you feel the
wings extend. You're free to fly, and huh! That's

how numbers work. You leap onto his back as the
guards are coming up, and you (wing beats) take

up. As you guys begin to fly up, the illusion
vanishes immediately, and all of the guards that

are rushing up stop, see this happening, and start
switching over to their various crossbows and

ranged implements.

SAM: Sure. Yeah. I've got nothing.

MATT: Literally, that escalated quickly. All
right, so a bunch of shots trying to be taken at

both of you. I'm going to say six to each from the
crossbows. What's the giant eagle's AC, Marisha?

TALIESIN: Oh gosh, you are keeper of the giant
eagle AC.

LAURA: Is the giant eagle small enough to
Dimension Door?

SAM: Nope.

MATT: I rolled a perception check for that one
guard, and he rolled really high and saw you

walking down the street and was like, "Oh fuck."
And went and got the captain.

TRAVIS: I should have killed him back at the
shop.

TALIESIN: Is that the takeaway from this? You
should have killed the guard? I'm just checking.

TRAVIS: I'm pretty sure this problem wouldn't have
existed.

MATT: All right, so two shots hit the eagle for
seven and six. 13 points of piercing damage.

MARISHA: You are at 27.

TALIESIN: Oh wait, is that the--

MARISHA: Wait. Nope, I lied. How many points?

LIAM: 13.

MARISHA: You're at half. You're at 13 hit points.

TRAVIS: I have 13 left?

LAURA: It's going to break your concentration.

TALIESIN: This is the most hilarious thing I've
ever seen.

LIAM: Next week, a prison break.

MARISHA: Normally, I'm the one who's arrested.
Mixing it up.

MATT: 23 points of piercing damage. I need you to
go ahead and make

four concentration checks, with advantage.

SAM: What do I add? Nothing, right?

MATT: It's your constitution saving throw.

SAM: Saving throw. Okay. 19.

MATT: You're okay.

SAM: More for that one. 17. More.

MATT: Okay, you're fine. You maintain
concentration. The eagle form flies up. You guys

are now beginning to rise up over the city, and
you're getting further out of the range of any

sort of ranged weaponry to be immediately
effective, but you don't know how long before

other, bigger guns are brought into the fray. What
are you going to do? You look down over the whole

Quad Roads and you can now see, the whole city of
Vasselheim almost looks like a top-heavy X with

the mountain range at the top. The Quad Roads is
where that X meets at the base.

What are you doing?

SAM: Oh, you can't talk. Shit. Land us in an alley
somewhere, and

we'll change our appearance, I suppose.

TRAVIS: (squawks)

MATT: Make an investigation check. What's the
eagle's intelligence modifier? This would be

perception, actually.

MARISHA: Is this wisdom? Well, they have keen
sight, so they have advantage on wisdom checks,

and the wisdom is plus two. Although, don't you
maintain--

MATT: No, you do in wild shape. Polymorph, you do
not.

MARISHA: So plus two, and you have advantage.

MATT: What's the bonus to perception?

MARISHA: They just have advantage on perception
checks.

TRAVIS: 16.

MATT: 16. Easy enough, you glance around with your
eagle eyes, and you see what appears to be a

darkened alleyway that is in a cluster of
heavily residential buildings. You dive down. You

hold on, (screams) going down into this free fall,
the wind rushing past you. You have to grab your

hat to make sure it doesn't fly off your head, and
then you dive down into the alleyway. Come and

land, and you watch as two children that were
playing with sticks glance over and go, "Oh!"

SAM: Run along, now.

MATT: (screams) And they run out of the alleyway,
screaming around the corner.

SAM: I release Polymorph.

TRAVIS: Thank you.

SAM: You didn't tell me that the guards all hated
you.

TRAVIS: Only one, apparently. That is what happens
when you leave things alive.

SAM: You're right. We've learned a lesson today.

TRAVIS: Look, should we still look for the Lord of
the Quad Roads?

SAM: I feel like that ship has sailed.

TRAVIS: Which ship?

SAM: Maybe not. (sighs) Maybe we should go find
the others.

TRAVIS: All right. Temple of Sarenrae? Where is
that?

SAM: I know where it is. I've shat there before.

(laughter)

TRAVIS: Should I wear the hat, since I am
apparently a wanted person now?

SAM: Why don't I just make us both invisible?

TRAVIS: Can you do that?

SAM: Sure.

TRAVIS: Aces.

SAM: All right. 3rd-level Invisibility, right? I
can do me and another person?

MATT: I believe so, yeah. All right, so you both
turn invisible and you make your way towards the

temple of Sarenrae.

TRAVIS: Damn it.

MATT: As you guys are leaving the temple, this
wonderful appearance, you see commotion in the

distance, and you see guards rushing from street
to street.

LAURA: What's happening here?

MARISHA: Do you think that guy went and alerted
everyone about Vecna?

TALIESIN: Either that, or that guard we left alive
that one time ran into Grog and sounded the alarm.

It was probably Vecna.

MARISHA: Probably Vecna. Vecna's a much bigger
problem, right?

TALIESIN: What would be the odds of that one guard
seeing him? This is a very big city.

SAM: (clears throat) It was the guard.

MATT: You guys hear this voice out of nowhere.

SAM: It's us. We're here. We're next to you, but
we're invisible.

MARISHA: Did you get allegiance from the Lord of
the Crossroads? Right?

SAM: Not exactly.

LAURA: I'm reaching down for a head.

MATT: You don't find a head, but you find Grog.

TRAVIS: Thanks, Vex. You know, he was "indiposed."
We should go.

TALIESIN: Are you sure? We could spend some time
here.

TRAVIS: Nope!

LAURA: Don't you want to talk to Kord?

TALIESIN: Have a drink, see the local color?

TRAVIS: I can't really look like me in this city
right now. I punched a captain of the guard.

LAURA: You punched--

MARISHA: You were gone for what, 45 minutes?

TRAVIS: Was it that long?

LIAM: It was like 30.

ASHLEY: It happened so fast.

SAM: There was an incident, in which we scared
many innocent people and assaulted several guards,

and they shot us with crossbows, and we are
bleeding.

LIAM: We just said goodbye to you.

SAM: I'm over here, actually.

(laughter)

LAURA: Let's fucking get out of here. Are we just
going to try to bamf to the fucking fields, or are

we going to talk to Melora, or are we going to
bamf to the fields and then go talk to Melora?

MARISHA: Melora doesn't exist on that plane.

LAURA: I know, but we'll have to come back here.

TALIESIN: I think the priests of the temple are
going to alert--

give them the basic story of Vecna.

LIAM: And also, dear. The communication system
that you and Percival

and Tary set up. Is it here?

MARISHA: No.

LIAM: Where's the closest?

MARISHA: The Fire Ashari. Why?

LIAM: Well, we've got two things on our plate,
right? We need to start--

MARISHA: Alerting the cities.

LIAM: Yes.

LAURA: Maybe you can send a message. Do you have
that ability?

MARISHA: No.

TALIESIN: To the Fire Ashari, and then to the
fields of Elysium?

LIAM: Yes.

TALIESIN: To the Fire Ashari, then to the fields
of Elysium.

MARISHA: All right, let's mist there.

LAURA: Is it fast to mist to the Fire Ashari?

TALIESIN: Just I Dream of Jeannie us there.

SAM: Wait, we're going to the Ashari? What
happened with Sarenrae?

TALIESIN: That's next.

LIAM: We're going to do that, we're just getting
the word out.

MARISHA: Misting to the Fire Ashari is not that
long, right?

MATT: In mist form, it won't take you but a few
hours.

MARISHA: That's what I thought. A couple of
hours.

MATT: More than that. Like four hours or so.

SAM: We're just getting a message to them?

TALIESIN: We're going to alert all of the major
cities of the continents

that things have gone pear-shaped.

MARISHA: Maybe we should Tree Stride there.

LIAM: While you were selling stuff on the black
market, Keyleth and Freddie here have been

building this system. They built it. In all the
major cities, they can get out an alarm.

SAM: Pretty cool.

MARISHA: I take that back. We Tree Stride.

MATT: Okay, then.

MARISHA: Transport Via Plants. I always say that
wrong. Tree Stride's a 5th-level spell.

MATT: Tree Stride rolls off the tongue.

TALIESIN: Tree Stride.

MARISHA: Tree Stride.

TALIESIN: Stride like a tree. Seriously, that text
is really tiny. I've never taken it into account.

It makes me feel old.

MARISHA: I have a lot of stuff going on.

LAURA: Let's go!

MATT: Okay. So as you guys step through the
rapidly created doorway from one of the nearby

trees here in the Quad Roads, as you're heading
southward into that space, you pull through the

portal and end up falling outside of the
Cindergrove, in the cauldron that contains the

city of Pyrah, of the Fire Ashari. Within a short
time, you find yourself to the actual city of

Pyrah and make your way towards the home of
Cerkonos.

MARISHA: I immediately look for Cerkonos, tell him
what happened, light the fire orbs. The chaos

orbs. Crisis orbs.

MATT: Crisis orbs. No worries. Speaking with him
and letting him know the circumstance, he nods. "I

"do not know the extent in which this danger will
present itself, but we will light these orbs with

"what information we can. We rely upon you, soon,
to fill in the gaps of information."

MARISHA: The city--

TALIESIN: Thar Amphala.

MARISHA: Thar Amphala.

LAURA and MARISHA: Thar Amphala.

MARISHA: I believe it teleported somewhere in the
northern hemisphere. Somewhere in a cold region.

We think Wildemount.

LAURA: It was snowing.

TALIESIN: We barely escaped.

MARISHA: You might want to check in with our
contacts there.

They might have the best knowledge.

MATT: "In Wildemount, you say? It is a far way
away."

MARISHA: Well, that's why we're alerting you
first.

MATT: "We will put up the orbs and try and gather
what information we have."

LIAM: Let people know. Do you remember how bad the
Conclave was?

That's what we're talking about here.

MARISHA: Possibly worse.

MATT: "Very well."

MARISHA: After this, I'm retiring.

LIAM: I'm getting too old for this shit.

MARISHA: We are going to be going to the blessed
fields of Elysium from here.

MATT: "I don't know where that is, but good
luck."

MARISHA: Thank you.

SAM: Dungeon Master, where's Vasselheim on this
map?

MATT: Vasselheim is in Issylra, which is the upper
left.

SAM: All the way up here? And didn't his internal
compass say 350 miles northwest?

MATT: Yep.

SAM: So we kind of know where he is, right?
Northwest?

MATT: Vasselheim is-- I'll have to show you where
it is. Vasselheim resides on this side.

SAM: Oh, so it's up at the peak?

MATT: Possibly.

SAM: Maybe up here.

LAURA: Whoa.

MARISHA: Okay, he might not be in Wildemount. I
don't know.

TALIESIN: He's in the north.

MARISHA: 350 miles northwest.

SAM: There's a real map here.

MATT: "I will light this beacon. Stay safe, and
good luck."

MARISHA: If you speak to the other Ashari and my
father, let him know.

MATT: "Immediately."

MARISHA: Thank you, Cerkonos. Kaitiaki.

MATT: "Kaitiaki."

LAURA and ASHLEY: Kaitiaki.

MARISHA: Let's go.

LAURA: Plane Shift?

SAM: We're still invisible.

MARISHA: Do we need anything else?

LAURA: No, this is not going to be dangerous,
right? We're just going to

talk to some friendly people.

MARISHA: It's a good plane of existence.

MATT: You Plane Shift? All right, as you all put
your hands in each other's, you feel the familiar

sense of your physical form being drawn through
the barrier of the Prime Material Plane, and much

like when you transitioned to the Nine Hells, you
feel yourselves pulled into this temporary space,

this darkness, this sea of endless void with a
distant blinking of stars that shimmer. You

understand this as being the Astral Sea.

ASHLEY: (whispering) This is the Astral Sea.

MATT: They don't hear you say it because this is
so fast. You have no reason to have a conversation.

There before you, you see the glimmering, almost
burning lattice of the Divine Gate come streaking

towards you at immense speed, and you know you've
passed through comfortably once before, so you

hope and brace for impact and pass through again,
that warmth almost coming to a similar state of

burning, but then leaving you behind. And just as
fast, as it passes by you, you land, your feet

hitting ground, ground that gives.

LAURA: Three-point landing.

MATT: Okay. (impact) The ground gives a bit with
the impact, and as your eyes focus a bit on the

brightness around you, you can see above you a
clear blue sky, not a cloud in sight. Your hands

and feet a few inches deep into the sand-like
beach of some sort of an island, it seems. But it

is not sand. They're granules, pebbles, of what
appear to be shining pearls.

An entire beach of pearls.

LAURA: It really is heaven.

ASHLEY: This is so beautiful.

MATT: The water laps the edge of the shore not but
five feet behind you, an ocean that is clear and

lagoon-like. It's paradise. Looking ahead, you can
see the once-crumbling island, now finding renewed

strength with the renewed faith. You can see,
while there are no trees on this island, the hills

themselves seem to carry what seem to be old,
statuesque structures. Small temple-like oddities

that have been swallowed by time and the ravages
of the Calamity, slowly emerging like jagged bits

of earth that have been plunged up by seismic
activity. Beyond these hills, you see what looks

to you, familiar: a gargantuan crystal cathedral
that resembles the torso of a woman, but where the

head is, it spires into a singular point, and from
the inside, you see the flickering glow of what

seems to be a raging inferno that flickers like a
heartbeat from the inside of this crystal citadel.

Here you stand on the shores of the Island of
Renewal, and that's where we're going to end

tonight's session.

(impressed noises)

LAURA: How pretty! Last episode was so ugly, and
this episode's so pretty.

LIAM: You used to be a 4th or 5th-level cleric,
and now we're here!

LAURA: You talked to Sarenrae!

ASHLEY: I know. That is crazy!

LAURA: That's crazy.

LIAM: Started in Stillben, now we're here!

MARISHA and LAURA: Wow.

SAM: How far we've come.

TRAVIS: Look how far I've come!

MARISHA: Let's just give Vecna the Prime Material
Plane. Let's stay here!

New plan. New plan: stay here.

TALIESIN: New plan: mimosas.

MATT: Scanlan and Grog. Sam and Travis, left alone
to their devices.

TALIESIN: Wow.

SAM: We couldn't even walk across town!

TRAVIS: I was just trying to go see a man about a
wish. The trouble just comes to us.

MATT: As you were having this conversation, I'm
like, oh, it would be so funny if-- yeah, they're

not being careful. They're walking through the
street.

TRAVIS: I forgot that Doty knocked out the guards,
so I should have been like, oh, we rescued you

from this horror.

MATT: Doty knocked out the guards originally, it
was just that they followed you as you were

following them, and you're an accomplice.

TRAVIS: I didn't actually do anything because they
were unconscious.

MATT: Except for the shopkeeper that saw you.

TRAVIS: Again, got to kill them all.

SAM: For sure. Now we know.

TRAVIS: I think we've all learned a valuable
lesson.

MATT: No, we haven't.

TALIESIN: No one's learned anything of value.

SAM: How are we going to get you those wishes?

TRAVIS: He might have already used them.

TALIESIN: Probably used them. Probably really
wanted some ice cream.

MATT: I look forward for the viable possibility
for you returning for that conversation, because

that's going to be extremely funny. Anyway, guys.
Well done. So much fun. Thank you so much.

LAURA: Not a single dice in the dice jail.

MATT: Nope!

SAM: Yeah, and only one of us is an undead ghost
now.

LIAM: I'm not undead!

LAURA: (singing) Oh my god, my brother's a lich.
He's such a lich.

TALIESIN: Tell it to the necromancer, pal.

LIAM: I have a heartbeat, a slow heartbeat, and
meat.

MATT: He's Vax, but on a lot of Quaaludes.

(laughter)

MATT: Anyway, guys. Thank you so much for
watching. We'll see you soon. Have a wonderful

weekend and a wonderful 4th of July.

MARISHA: You're going to be at AX!

MATT: Yeah, I'll be at AX for the Persona panel on
Saturday.

MARISHA: Also, Meg and Wendy are going to have a
booth there, so you can go to Artists' Alley. I

think they said 11am? Go onto their Twitter. But
anyway, they're going to be there.

LAURA: David Mack posters.

SAM: One more day.

LAURA: One more day! Not even a full day!

LIAM and TRAVIS: (singing) One day more.

MARISHA: I've lost my druid die!

MATT: You guys, good job, tonight. It was great.

SAM: Happy birthday, Matthew.

ALL: Happy birthday!

MARISHA: Actually, Max! Is this still a thing?

SAM: He quit.

TALIESIN: At the break, he said "I quit" and he
walked out.

LAURA: Is Max still here?

MARISHA: Apparently the Critters got you ice
cream.

MATT: What?!

MARISHA: Someone got you ice cream.

LAURA: What kind of ice cream?

MARISHA: Ben and Jerry's.

MATT: I want ice cream.

RYAN: He's gone!

LAURA: Ice cream's gone.

MARISHA: Our producer is gone.

MATT: He just ran with my ice cream. You know, I
respect that. Well, thank you. Thank you to

whoever sent ice cream. And thank you for all the
amazing messages. Today has been an absolute flood

of positivity.

LAURA: You're so old.

MATT: I know. I'm so old. For a very busy day, it
was good to see that. So thank you guys so much;

you're all amazing. And have a wonderful week,
and is it Thursday yet? Good night.

[music]