MATT: Hello, everyone, and welcome to tonight's
episode of Critical Role, where a bunch of us

nerdy-ass voice actors sit around and play
Dungeons and Dragons. I think we're recording,

because my camera light's not on, but
nevertheless, welcome. (laughs)

TRAVIS: We're totally recording.

MATT: I'm pretty sure we are. Anyway guys,
welcome, we have a fantastic guest who will be

joining us later this evening, but before we get
to that we have announcements to go over real

fast. First and foremost, tonight's episode is
sponsored by a new sponsor, a fantastic group

called Quidd! If you want to talk about that
first?

SAM: Hi, guys. Vacation Sam here. Quidd is our
sponsor tonight, a fantastic new sticker app for

your phone. You can check it out at bitly, that's
bit.ly/crquidd. I didn't know much about the

company, but Quidd sounded vaguely British, so
little-known fact about me, I have access to the

BBC archives at home, so I did some snooping and
sure enough, I found a World War II newsreel

transcript that talked about Quidd, so I thought I
would do a dramatic reading of it for you right

now.

LIAM: Here we go.

SAM: News from the front! This is Nigel J.
Creamhutch reporting from BBC London. March 23,

1944 may be a turning point in WWII as PM
Churchill announces a new weapon in the fight

against those devilish Nazis. They're calling it
Quidd, a new app where you can collect stickers,

cards and Funko figures on your telephone device.
Our lads on the frontlines are already using it!

We spoke with Lieutenant Neville Bingham of the
Royal Navy.

Right, yeah, Quidd's this free app available on
the Apple App Store and Google Play, and it's

helping us drive Hitler back to Berlin.

But it's not just our Tommies. The Reds have
discovered Quidd as well! We spoke with tank

commander Ivan Bashenko.

With Quidd, Russian army is strongest in world.
Morale better now with thousands of stickers to

collect that can be used like emojis in messages
to your friends. Stalingrad will not fall with

these cute stickers!

Why, they're even using Quidd across the pond! We
spoke with American sergeant John Smith, an

American Doughboy.

I'm John, an American. We American GIs love to
collect stickers from brands like Rick and Morty,

Bob's Burgers, Family Guy, Breaking Bad, Star
Trek, and newly announced Game of Thrones. Take

that, Emperor Hirohito!

Well, there you have it, ladies and gents. Your
British Armed Forces and our allies will defeat

the Nazis and win the Second Great War if you go
to bit.ly/crquidd and check out Quidd. Good night,

good luck, and god save the queen, pip pip!

(cheering)

TRAVIS: I'm so glad that's available on the BBC.

SAM: Yeah, it was a weird transcript. I would have
shown the newsreel, but it was just a transcript.

MATT: Fair enough. Well, thank you for the update
on that, and thank you, Quidd for sponsoring

tonight's episode. Really appreciate it.

LIAM: Did they win the war?

SAM: Find out next time!

(laughter)

MATT: All righty, let's see. Do you have any merch
updates at all, Laura?

LAURA: There's stuff in the store!

MATT: There you go. Perfect. Good, I like it,
thank you. The Green Ronin Campaign Guide.

Pre-orders go up on Monday, guys!

ALL: What!

LAURA: Oh my god.

MATT: Yes, and if you get the book and the pdf, I
think the pdf is available immediately, so some of

you will have access to actually read the book on
Monday.

LAURA: Are you so nervous, Matt?

MATT: I'm so nervous. (laughs nervously)

TALIESIN: People can actually, in real time, call
us when we're wrong on our own stuff.

TRAVIS: What do you mean, finally? They do that
every week.

MARISHA: Finally? Although you are Taliesin
Jaffe.

TALIESIN: This is a level of pain I've only
dreamed of; I'm very excited.

LIAM: Hey. We're so proud of you.

TRAVIS: Yeah, nice job with the words and stuff.

SAM: Hold on though, we haven't read it yet. What
if it's terribly written, by a child?

LAURA: We'll find out he used crayon. It's all
written in marker.

MATT: Probably. Do you know how hard it is to get
crayon printed these days?

MARISHA: Only if the writers' room dropped the
ball.

MATT: Well, I hope you guys enjoy it, so look
forward to that. The podcast is now episodes 11

through 20, right? Up on the Apple Store. So you
can go ahead and download those, which are

awesome.

MARISHA: Yep, Apple and Google Play.

MATT: Yes. And those are the ones. Of course we'll
have Talks Machina next Tuesday at 7:00pm about

this episode tonight, here on Twitch and Alpha,
7:00pm Pacific, with our fantastic host Brian

Foster, so you can check that out. Wednesday Club
next week for you?

TALIESIN: Wednesday Club, we're talking about
Comic Con, because Comic Con is coming up, and

we're going to try and give you a first-timer's
guide to Comic Con: If you've never been to one,

what to expect, what to do for fun, and all sorts
of things that you could see or do in San Diego.

Other than us. Thank you, I was very proud of last
night.

MATT: We're not having a show next week, we're
going to be at Comic Con. Yeah, we have a week

off. So we'll miss you guys next week, but we do
have our Critical Role panel on Saturday at Comic

Con, it's at 10:30am in Room 6...

TRAVIS: BC... E.

MATT: It's a nice big room. You guys should come,
we're going to have silly questions, Q and A,

conversations, stories and a lot of funness and
some cool surprises!

SAM and TALIESIN: Prizes?

MATT: Surprises!

MARISHA: Oh yeah, we have some announcements.

MATT: So hopefully you guys can make it at San
Diego Comic Con. If you're going to be there we'd

love to see you. And last but not least, Sagas of
Sundry: Dread. The third episode went up today.

MATT and MARISHA: (perfect unison) Shit's getting
real.

MATT: I'm going to marry you.

(laughter)

MATT: What's that? Oh that's right, and at GenCon
next month we have our live show, we mentioned it

last week. Tickets are still on sale for the
general admission. We're looking forward to having

you guys there, it's Friday evening.

TRAVIS: Yeah, it's Friday evening, 7:30. In fact,
we got an even bigger theatre this year. The last

theatre had 1,500 seats, we're like, oh, we'll
never get that many people, and it went (explosion

sound). It filled up, so we got a 2,500 seat
theatre. It's massive, it's a huge party, if you

didn't join us last year, you want to come to this
mayhem. It's so much fun. You don't need passes to

GenCon, by the way, you don't have to have a badge
or anything for that, it's a standalone thing.

There are definitely tickets still available, it's
going to be super fun.

SAM: I feel like with that many people we should
have beach balls in the audience, and they can do

the wave.

MATT: Inflatable d20s to throw out there...

MARISHA: (gasps) You can get them. They're on
ThinkGeek I think.

MATT: This is a terrible idea.

TRAVIS: It's a great idea!

MATT: Anyway, without further ado, I think that
concludes our announcements, and as such, let us

dive into tonight's episode of Critical Role.

[dramatic music]

MATT: Hello, everyone, and welcome back. So where
we left off last time. Vox Machina, having finally

encountered the Undying King, returned in physical
form in the Shadowfell, did battle and fled, quite

unprepared for that venture, and gathered some
tidbits of information about what Vecna's plans

may be. Upon returning and discovering that your
disintegrated Vax has returned through some deal

he made with his patron the Raven Queen after
disintegrating, you decided to go ahead and try

and gather more information about this and beseech
some of the higher powers within Exandria. Pike

talked to Sarenrae and was given the invitation to
come visit her in Elysium on the Island of

Renewal, and upon gathering your materials and
causing a mess in Vasselheim, you got together and

went to meet this fantastic Everlight. On her
island, you spoke with her. She gathered some

information from you, as Vecna seemed to be
blocking at least the influence and vision from a

lot of the deities, and then gave her blessing
unto Pike, transferring you over to one of the

other gods that lives among the Blessed Fields of
Elysium: Pelor, the Dawnfather.

You then walked through the orchards that led to
the Fortress of the Sun where he resides, spoke

with some of the guardians there, and were led
into the center of the citadel, where you met, in

the central throne room under the Zenith Tower,
Pelor himself. Upon exchanging information, you

spoke of your need to gather the favor of certain
gods in the battles to come, and were given a

challenge. To step up to plate: Vex'ahlia. You
accepted the challenge and racing to the top of

the tower, the zenith, before the fires could be
extinguished in the brazier that awaited you, you

threw yourself into the fire, and upon the party
speaking on what it was that made Vex'ahlia such

an important member of not just your team, but
your family, and gave you strength, she was imbued

with a blessing of the Dawnfather himself. After
which, we left off as you exited the front of the

Fortress of the Sun, stepped into the central
glade that marks the center of the

seemingly endless orchards that surround this
region, and Vox Machina, what would you like to

do?

TRAVIS: Eat all of the fruit.

LAURA: No.

TRAVIS: It was really good. It was just fruit, by
the way. Like I said.

SAM: We're still in heaven right now?

LAURA: We're still in Elysium.

TALIESIN: It's not quite heaven.

TRAVIS: Are there any other gods here that we
should curry favor with? For? Of?

LAURA: Are there any more gods here? Not that we
know of.

SAM: We forgot to ask.

TRAVIS: Did we?

LAURA: Yeah. I don't think Ioun is here.

MATT: You're looking at the series of the Sun Tree
cousins, one of which you've met, scattered

amongst this glade surrounding the central
citadel.

MARISHA: What a douche.

SAM: No other people? Guards? Nothing.

MATT: You have the guards behind you, the large
planetar and deva entities that stand there,

armored in their golden plate, after ushering you
out, are standing guard.

LAURA: Maybe we can ask them.

SAM: Sure. I'll go up to one and say, hello there,
big fellow.

MATT: Standing a full ten feet taller than you,
practically, the wings slightly bent, the large

planar entity kneels down. "Hello."

SAM: Hello. Vacation Scanlan here. Couple
questions. By the way, was he one of the ones who

fought in there?

MATT: Make a perception check.

SAM: Oh. Do they all look alike? 17 plus one.

MATT: Hard to tell. You didn't pay a lot of
attention.

SAM: Okay. Hey, just wondering, a few questions.
A: How does one get out of here? Is there a door

to another plane?

MATT: "I imagine the same way you came in."

SAM: A god brought us here. All right, cool.
Number two: Are there any other like your

Dawnfather around here? Any other gods in the
area?

MATT: "Across Elysium, there are two deities that
call it home: the Dawnfather and the Everlight."

SAM: So we covered our bases. Out of curiosity:
What are you called?

MATT: He looks very closely, and you get sense
that part of its nature is scanning through you;

it's getting a sense and a read of you as an
individual, and it says, "No one you need to worry

"about." Stands up and then takes two steps back
(heavy footfalls) into place and looks straight

ahead.

MARISHA: Scanlan, you should remember that line,
that's a good one.

SAM: Yeah. I already forgot it. I'm too
intimidated. Was it no one or something? I don't

know. Well, good speaking to you.

MATT: Still looks out. Doesn't respond.

SAM: Well, how do we get out of here? Can she take
us home?

MARISHA: Yeah.

LIAM: She does on the daily.

SAM: I know, but I don't know. They talked about
some sort of a gate that keeps the gods out and

the bad gods in.

MATT: To remind you of what happened last time.
There was talking about possibly... or at least

there was the Trammel, the Prime Trammels that
were used previously to seal the Chained Oblivion,

Tharizdun, and that the orchestrator, the designer
of those was Ioun, the Knowing Goddess. Ioun,

however, has sealed herself away, being a wounded
god, long recovering, and the only information

that Pelor has of where she hid herself, the key,
essentially, is not an object but a person. You're

seeking an individual, of which you were given a
solar light map of a single small home in a forest

ravine not far from a place that you've noticed
was near the Pools of Wittebak, which is in the

Cliffkeep Mountains.

SAM: Yeah, but there was also a mention of some
Divine Gate that keeps people from--

MATT: Well, the Divine Gate is a known existing
entity. It's essentially a large gate that

prevents the gods from returning to the Prime
Material Plane.

LIAM: It's like a metaphysical screen door that
keeps flies out.

LAURA: So the gods can't get in and out.

SAM: Sure, sure.

MARISHA: Yeah, the Prime Trammel. Which we now
have to get--

LAURA: We have to get near the the Cliffkeep
Range, near the Pools of Wittebak, is where we

need to go.

MARISHA: And the Cliffkeep is not too far from
Whitestone?

MATT: Cliffkeep Mountains go across a lot of the
northern side of Tal'Dorei, from what you're

familiar with. Like, we're talking Kraghammer to
Gatshadow to the Jorenn Village. There's a lot of

things. It's like a big horizontal mountain range
that caps the top part of the continent.

MARISHA: Do I recognize the city that I can get us
to that's close?

MATT: Fort Daxio or Kraghammer.

SAM: Haven't been to Kraghammer for a while,
although Daxio might be worth a check.

TALIESIN: What's closest to the pools?

MATT: Probably Terrah or the Pools of Wittebak.
Those are the two that are closest.

LAURA: What is Terrah?

MARISHA: My home.

MATT: Terrah's not your home.

MARISHA: Sorry. Sorry, Terrah is the Earth
Ashari.

SAM: My other home, summer home.

MATT: The home away from home.

LIAM: Can you also remind me where my Vecdar made
me feel Vecna-- where on the Prime Material

Plane?

MATT: Yes. Oh, where?

LIAM: Yeah, we talked about it, but I can't
remember.

MATT: You did, yes. It seemed to be hundreds of
miles northwest of Vasselheim. You didn't sense

any movement, but you knew the general direction
and distance.

LIAM: And that was yesterday.

MATT: Correct.

LAURA: Teacher?

MATT: Yes, Laura?

LAURA: I was excited the last game and somehow
have misplaced my Pelor champion piece of paper.

LIAM: Oh, she doesn't get to have it now. That's
how that works.

LAURA: I don't know how it happened! It's not with
my stuffs.

MATT: That's okay, I remember what it does, and if
you decide to use it--

LAURA: You'll tell me? Okay.

MATT: I won't tell you. You tell me you want to
use it.

LAURA: Oh shit, okay. I'm sorry. I had it, and
it's not here.

TALIESIN: It's weird how he's so nice and yet it
still feels like you are in so much trouble.

LAURA: I'm in a lot of trouble, you guys.

LIAM: He's calm, but indifferent. Like the
Dawnfather.

MATT: All right, so what would you like to do?

TRAVIS: Yeah, what would we like to do?

MARISHA: Should we go to Terrah? Check in with
them, I guess, while we're there?

TALIESIN: Seems prudent.

MARISHA: And talk to Pa'tice.

TRAVIS: Yeah.

MARISHA: All right. We ready to go?

TALIESIN: I'm very ready to go. This is lovely and
everything, but I've had my fill.

MARISHA: I will burn my 8th-level spell slot to
Plane Shift us to Terrah.

MATT: To Terrah, all righty.

MARISHA: Mind the gap.

TALIESIN: What gap?

MARISHA: Don't worry about it.

TRAVIS: No effects from eating that fruit, right?

MATT: No, you didn't sense any effects from that
fruit, at the moment.

TRAVIS: Didn't remove a curse or anything?

MATT: No, you didn't. Nothing really caught you up
to speed, in that.

LAURA: Are we by those fruit trees again?

MATT: There are no fruit-bearing trees directly
near you. The Sun Trees are around you. Further in

they do, yes. All righty. Bringing up my notes on
Terrah, since that's where you're going.

MARISHA: Yeah, I should probably--

LAURA: I'm so confused about the order of things.
If we go to Ioun, and we don't have everything we

need for this Prime Trammel, are we fucked? I know
we need godly power in order to imbue them, right?

Or something?

LIAM: Either here or soon we need to sit and work
this out.

SAM: What do we need to bring into the trammel?

LAURA: Well, Pelor gave me this. Snap, snap, snap,
zip. This. It's a stone and it's supposed to be

strong enough to--

LIAM: Power the trammel?

LAURA: Part of it? Not all of it.

MARISHA: We need to collect more, though, right? We
have to get like eight or something.

SAM: Wait, it said that?

MATT: You weren't given any indication as to how
many you needed.

LAURA: But it did seem like this is not enough.

MARISHA: Oh no, wait, Ioun was healing for eight
centuries. That's where I got that number. Sorry.

TRAVIS: I could do it, too. Five. Five stones of
power.

MATT: All right, so as you complete your spell,
Keyleth, you step through the base of the nearest

tree, possibly the same one you spoke with earlier
if you want to be a dick about it.

MARISHA: Oh yeah! Let's walk through that asshole.
That sounds worse for us. But fuck it.

MATT: All right, you aggressively stampede through
the center of this one tree and emerge on the

other side from one of the surrounding trees on
the Terrah village. There are a number of these

pseudo-petrified or dried-out large-trunk trees
that seem to have slowly died off from the heavy

tectonic shifts and small quakes that happen in
this area, that have made a lot of the land unable

to support large forms of plant life, or at least the
trees that used to exist here. So you step out and

emerge from the exterior of the village as it
domes down into this small crater that you recall

seeing before, where most of the village inhabits the
central portion, and the village is there before

you.

MARISHA: What were the shard things called again?

MATT: The shard things?

MARISHA: The things we need to collect?

MATT: There wasn't really a name for them more
than they're small pieces of essence of the

deity.

MARISHA: So we need pieces of god.

LIAM: Does the little seed of light given to my
sister look anything like the little seed that

Scanlan and Vax saw from riding the shadow
creature in the sky?

MATT: No. In a sense that it's a small source
of power of some kind, but what you saw there was

maybe about that large on the platform. What she
has is bead size.

LAURA: Is it this size? Or this size?

MATT: Comparable to each. So you stand outside of
Terrah. What are you doing?

SAM: What time of day is it? How tired are we?

MATT: Based on when you left, it would still be
probably-- well, you were over in Vasselheim, which

means it's getting dark, actually. I'd say with
the way the sun has passed through the sky now,

you've just gotten past dusk. There's still
light in the sky, but it's going from oranges to

purples to dark blues on the horizon, and you can
see hints of firelight, torchlight and candlelight

from within the actual city below.

SAM: Well, what are we going to need on this trip?
Maybe we should get whatever supplies we need. Is

it far? Are we going to become gas?

TRAVIS: Are we going underground?

MARISHA: Oh, to Terrah?

SAM: No, we'e in Terrah. But the next day, we're
going to the--

TALIESIN: To the pools.

MARISHA: Do we want to stay the night here, then? I
can't mist us right now. I'm tapped out. Camp

here.

LAURA: Vax? Can you sense Vecna? Is he still in
the same place?

LIAM: I can sense him?

MATT: You can sense him. He is, from your current
location, thousands of miles from you.

LAURA: Oh, hard to tell, then?

LIAM: He's still really shitty, though.

MATT: Yeah, very heavy west-northwest direction
from you, currently.

SAM: Well, sleep? Do we need to get any intel on
where these pools are? Do we need anything?

LAURA: We should maybe talk to the people of
Terrah? It's not that late.

MARISHA: Yeah, let's go. They have a spare room
for us.

TRAVIS: Are you the leader of all the people?

MARISHA: I'm the leader of the Air Ashari and the
Voice of the Tempest.

TRAVIS: Is that a yes or a no? You don't have to
fucking brag.

MARISHA: No, there's four of us, and I'm
one of the four.

SAM: Do you know the one who lives here?

MARISHA: I do.

SAM: Then let's go see him or her. Or they.

MARISHA: No, we can just go, like I was saying
five minutes ago. Let's just go.

MATT: All right. So as you walk down into the
village, a number of the guardians step out

quickly, seeing an approaching party, however,
recognizing Keyleth and her station immediately,

turn into an escort that leads you to the center
portion of the village.

MARISHA: I request Pa'tice.

MATT: Quickly enough, they go and retrieve
Pa'tice. You see the elderly form of the leader

you've met before step out, the graying hair, the
weathered dark skin tones, the long greens and

brown leathers that drape off, showing hints of
the knees and lower feet, the large walking staff

that he carries at his side as he approaches and
the headdress that seems to be a combination of

thick twines and shale shards that have been woven
in, steps forward. "Keyleth. An unexpected visit,

"most definitely."

MARISHA: Kaitiaki.

MATT: "Kaitiaki."

MARISHA: Pa'tice, I am so sorry for the late
intrusion. We've just gotten back from the plane

of Elysium, so we're a little tired. Yeah, we're
fighting a god right now, well, more of like a

demi-god, so have you heard of Vecna? Sorry, I'm
probably getting ahead of myself. Do you have any

food? Let's talk over dinner.

MATT: "We have food, yes. You are guests of
Terrah. Please, we will provide whatever you

"require. Come, provide them a meal!" And he puts
his hand out and they run off quickly.

TALIESIN: I like that people just feed us. We show up,
and there's food.

SAM: You've been used to that your whole life.

TALIESIN: Not at home.

SAM: I have to sing for dinner. You just say--

TALIESIN: Have you ever tried not singing for
dinner?

SAM: Maybe I'll get more food.

TALIESIN: You might!

LIAM: You did have one year-ish where you were on
the skids. You did your Prince and the Pauper bit

for a little bit.

TALIESIN: It's a big vague, but yes. I was on a
boat for quite a while.

TRAVIS: Oh my god, can we eat food?

(laughter)

MATT: And quick as that, you guys make your way
down. It's a modest meal, but it's a meal

nonetheless. Mostly hunted creatures of the local
mountainside, some dried beets and root.

MARISHA: We always try to source locally.

TALIESIN: Charmingly provincial.

MATT: (laughs)

LAURA: Keyleth, perhaps you should let your people
know that the world is in danger.

MARISHA: So the world's in danger, as she said--

SAM: The waiter is like, what?

LIAM: Runs out the door.

MARISHA: Aw shit! I just induced panic.

MATT: Pa'tice, who's sat down with you, says
quickly, "We have been made aware via the other

"Ashari that there is some danger possibly coming.
We are awaiting word of what to do other than keep

"ourselves in a defensive position. We have to
guard the rift, of course. But should there be a

"call to action, we'll do what we can. I'm
unfamiliar with this Vecna, but whatever you plan,

"please be careful."

MARISHA: (sighs) Okay. More than anything, I think
I would want you all to be relief for the

surrounding area and surrounding villages if
anything disastrous were to happen. I know you

have to guard the rift and that is insanely
important and especially right now with someone

like Vecna who could potentially abuse that. But
if anything were to happen, I don't know if you

could house extra people during a disaster.

MATT: "We are quite good at assembling makeshift
and temporary lodging. The rock is our friend, if

"you will."

MARISHA: Yeah, that's more, I think, what we would
need.

MATT: "Of course, of course! Not a worry."

MARISHA: Currently, Vecna is just north of Vasselheim,
close to Pyrah.

MATT: "Have you asked Pyrah for aid, as well?"

MARISHA: They've also been put on alert, but we
have not personally been there yet since this has

happened.

MATT: "Well. Good. They're closer. But we're happy
to help if we can."

MARISHA: Yeah. Thank you.

LAURA: Things are happening very quickly. We just
happened here first.

MATT: "We're happy to help. Where are you off
to?"

SAM: The Pools of Wittebak.

MATT: "What brings you towards the Pools of
Wittebak?"

SAM: You know this place?

MATT: "It is a series of poisoned wells and
hulking, stupid giants."

SAM: Hulking, stupid giants?

LAURA: Giants? At the pools?

MATT: "Yes."

LAURA: I thought it was something about gnomes
there.

MATT: "It was once."

SAM: They grew.

(laughter)

LAURA: Is that something you can do, Scanlan?

SAM: I don't know. (laughs)

MATT: "They're geothermic large puddles across the
mountainside. Various minerals being lifted up

"from the deep waters beneath the mountain. Heated,
bubbling, boiling, steaming. But the giants moved

"in hundreds of years ago, stomped around, and
ended up filling the entire subterranean gnomish

"city of Wittebak with fumes and poison. Killed
most of them, and the rest fled to Kraghammer."

LIAM: Do you all ever broach the area or do you
just stay clear of it?

MATT: "Best to avoid, we have our own business to
deal with. And it's 100 miles from here. It's not

"much of an issue."

TALIESIN: And the pools are naturally poisonous?

MATT: "Well, some are toxic, some are not, but
since the giants moved in and ruptured some of the

"natural formations, some of them have grown toxic
or acidic, yes."

MARISHA: Do you know if people still try to live
there? We're looking for someone.

MATT: "If they are, they're foolish."

MARISHA: Okay.

TALIESIN: That's our kind of people.

LAURA: Maybe the person we're looking for is a
giant.

MARISHA: Maybe.

SAM: Do you know what type of giant? We've seen a
few types of giants. Do you know their make and

model?

MATT: "The dumbest. Hill giants."

LAURA: Hill giants.

TRAVIS: Yeah.

MATT: "Easy to outsmart, difficult to outrun.
They'll eat anything, even small little gnomes."

LAURA: Seems like they ate a lot of them.

SAM: (laughing) I guess so.

LAURA: Pasty, I have a question. Do you know
anything about Ioun?

MATT: "I know of the name."

LAURA: But not much.

MATT: "We're not the most devoted people."

LAURA: I know.

MARISHA: I saw that.

(laughter)

MATT: "I can't imagine I'd have any information
you wouldn't."

LAURA: Okay. Just checking.

MATT: "My apologies."

LAURA: This food is really good.

MATT: "Yes! Enjoy your meal!" And he gets up and
walks away.

TALIESIN: He was so officious.

LAURA: I thought we were walking into a fucking
lake with gnomes living there. I didn't realize we

were going to fight giants.

TRAVIS: This got so much better all of a sudden.

TALIESIN: If it were easy, it really wouldn't be
us, would it?

MARISHA: So the question is, is there actually
someone of some minor intelligence living there

that is this magical key, or did that person get
eaten by a giant?

TALIESIN: I cannot believe I'm about to say this.
I'm inclined to believe the god. They're in the

position where trying to trick us out of leaving
is not necessary. They could've just told us to

leave and be done with it. That information just
wouldn't suit them, I don't think.

MARISHA: I'm not saying it's bad information, I'm
just wondering who the key is.

LAURA: It's possible the key is now inside of a
giant's stomach. In which case, it still would

be inside of someone. Just a different someone.

MARISHA: Yeah. Maybe they're still living inside.
Maybe it's like a Moby Dick situation.

MATT: You do recall the map that was shown to you
by the Dawnfather Pelor. It was adjacent to the

pools, not actually in the Pools of Wittebak. It
was within a forest, and was a home.

LAURA: Oh! I remember it now! It was a home
inside. Oh, I drew a little map of it. Yep, that's

it. Yes, it's adjacent to the pools, but there's a
home in a forest. Did you like it? That's what my

map was.

MARISHA: Can we theoretically just mist over
everywhere?

LAURA: I mean and look out for a home in the
forest? We'll have to fly pretty low. I'm assuming

the home is going to be covered by treetop.

TRAVIS: We never travel traditionally anymore. I'm
just saying, I miss the romantic aspects of

traveling the countryside. It's like fast forward,
immediate gratification, fucking you know.

SAM: The Dawnfather said we must hurry or else the
world will end.

LAURA: It's very far. We could Misty Step to the
forest and then walk in the forest?

TRAVIS: Why are you fucking talking to me like I'm
a child?

LAURA: No reason, darling.

TRAVIS: Okay. That would-- okay.

(laughter)

LIAM: Once this is all done, Grog, you and I will
go on a long trek together.

TRAVIS: Yeah? Yeah. I dig that.

LAURA: Don't be dark and creepy and make it sound
like you're being nice. I know you're being dark

and creepy right now.

TRAVIS: Oh, hey. Don't get after my camping
partner like that, all right? Shit. Chill.

LIAM: Can't predict this one.

TRAVIS: No marshmallows for this witch.

MARISHA: It is a little weird to be making
promises, though.

TALIESIN: Well, on that chipper little side note, I
think we should turn in for the evening.

SAM: Yes, do we have lodging?

MATT: Lodging is provided for you. They have a
number of various guest tents and small buildings

that provide you with space. Not the highest of
quality of places you've slept in, probably, and

if you wanted to provide your mansion instead,
you're welcome to, but ample food, quiet sleep.

It's a comfortable evening's rest. You all find
yourselves through the evening. As you sleep, and

having this being the first time many of you
have slept in Terrah, it takes you a while. There is

just a general low hum or vibration to the
ground that you sleep on. You get the sense it's

probably proximity to the Rift, but there is this
slow, perpetual (rumbling). It's like a weird, low

rumble. Like a heavy bass sound that never seems
to dissipate that you hadn't noticed until you

were trying to quietly sleep. But it's not
off-putting and within ten or 15 minutes, it

actually almost helps to lull you to rest. You all
come to in the morning, gather your supplies, and

are preparing for the next leg of your journey.
What do you wish to do?

TRAVIS: Could I attune, either before I go to
sleep or when I wake up, to the Dwarven Thrower

instead of the Bloodaxe?

MATT: You may. All right. Any other attunements,
anyone wishes to--

LIAM: I'll set the Deathwalker's Ward to acid.

MATT: All right, to acid. Boom.

LAURA: Before everyone else gets up, can I go find
where Vax is sleeping?

MATT: You may.

LAURA: This is a tent. What do I do? Do I knock?
Do I shake it? I'm not sure. Scratch?

MATT: They're lodging made from large pieces of
shale and rock, jammed into a somewhat triangular

pattern to form an earth yurt, if you will.

LAURA: Oi. Vax. Are you naked?

LIAM: Yes.

LAURA: Put some clothes on, then. Jesus. Keyleth,
sorry.

MARISHA: Keyleth opens the shamble door first with
a little earth movement. I'm dressed. Yeah. I'm

not like that.

LAURA: You don't sleep naked?

MARISHA: I'm going to go get coffee.

LAURA: Okay.

MATT: (laughs) Keyleth darts off in the distance
and the two of you are left within the tent.

LAURA: Are you decent?

LIAM: Yes.

LAURA: I'm coming in.

LIAM: I'm still naked.

LAURA: Ugh, come on! So fucking weird. (groans) I
turn my back to him.

LIAM: I start putting on the rest of my armor.

MATT: Okay. (laughs)

LAURA: Can I ask you a question? Well, I'm going
to.

LIAM: Of course you can.

LAURA: I look down at my feet. Why didn't you ever
try to take these back?

LIAM: Well, they're going to be yours, anyway.

LAURA: Oh, Jesus. You know, the only reason I
do things is that I take great joy in irritating

you. If you don't show irritation, it makes it not
worth it. (sighs) Can I turn around now? I'm

turning around.

LIAM: I am covered.

LAURA: Good. Why are you so calm? You're so calm
and confident now. It's weird.

LIAM: I mean, I'm on bonus time.

LAURA: Is he still cold?

MATT: His skin is colder than a warm body, yes.

LIAM: But I'm not Bobby Drake, right?

LAURA: What's his heartbeat like?

MATT: (very slow heartbeat)

LAURA: (groans) Jeez!

TALIESIN: Wow, way to hang onto that one, Matt.

LIAM: But look. (slashing noise) I mean, look.

LAURA: Is there blood?

MATT: Yeah, he bleeds, and it's a pretty open
wound. You watch as the wound slowly seals itself

up.

LAURA: (gasping) No fucking way!

LIAM: Oh, I didn't know it did that.

(laughter)

LAURA: That's really cool.

LIAM: Thank you!

LAURA: Wow.

LIAM: I don't know, this is the dumbest
conversation. This is bonus time. I shouldn't be

here. It was the long sleep or come back and
help.

LAURA: So she gave you the option and then you
came back and now you're what? Super? Super

half-elf?

LIAM: Well, I'm just following through on a
promise made.

LAURA: And we defeat Vecna and you're done, you're
gone. That's it? Instant? Is it like we kill him

and you're gone that second or is it like we kill
him and you're here for another week or until

the Raven Queen realizes that you're still here?

LIAM: There isn't really a handbook.

LAURA: She didn't tell you?

LIAM: When Vecna is destroyed, she will call me
back to where I would be right now. I expect

everyone-- Keyleth and I have barely spoken-- I
expect everyone to be sad, but I wish you wouldn't

be so sad, not exorbitantly so, because I--

LAURA: Exorbitant? That's a good word.

LIAM: I read. Not as much as some, but I read.
This is the path that I have chosen for myself and

I did it based out of desperation, at first. But
everyone dies.

LAURA: I know.

LIAM: And I think our group has become a little
spoiled. We're not your ordinary group of idiots. We

have blessings.

LAURA: We're blessed idiots.

LIAM: Blessed idiots, yes, and I know that we've
gotten used to feeling like we can overcome losing

anyone, but your average farmer or seamstress
doesn't come back. And everybody dies, and all

that matters is what you do with what you have,
and I have done a lot, and I've taken great pride

watching all that you have done. And I have good
friends and I have fallen in love. More than most,

I've had.

LAURA: Yeah. After you die, do you stand by her
side?

LIAM: That I don't really know. I imagine she'll
keep me close.

LAURA: Do you like her now?

LIAM: Yes.

LAURA: That's good.

LIAM: She's necessary and she's of use, and I like
that.

LAURA: She brought you back to us for a while. I
like her, too. Anyway, do you want the fucking

boots back? Fuck! Yeah, sure, yes, fine, that's
fine. I wanted to give them back, so there you go.

I'm glad you asked for them back.

LIAM: I don't have a lot of time. They really are
my favorite thing.

LAURA: I know.

LIAM: Physical thing.

LAURA: Just make sure you write it down
somewhere that after you go back to the Raven

Queen that your sister is your favorite in the
universe.

LIAM: Dear, every stitch on my body is yours when
I am gone.

LAURA: I don't want every stitch. None of it's
worth you leaving.

LIAM: I slide my feet into the shoes and I wiggle my
toes around. Oh, I'm sorry. I also have a

confession to make.

LAURA: What?

LIAM: I don't exactly have your shoes anymore.

LAURA: What?!

LIAM: I think that I left them in the Feywild.

LAURA: The Feywild?

LIAM: Yeah, I think I dropped them into a bog. They
didn't fit me.

LAURA: You are a motherfucker. You couldn't have
just put them in the Bag of Holding?

LIAM: I'm still me.

LAURA: Great, wonderful. I like being barefoot.

LIAM: You have very cute, small feet that fit in
the boots that you gave me that did not fit my feet.

LAURA: That's great.

LIAM: There's probably shoes here.

LAURA: Probably. All right.

LIAM: I pull out her shoes and I put them down.

LAURA: Well, at least there's that!

MATT: Got your shoes back. Keyleth returns with
some coffee. The rest of you come to

consciousness, and the morning sun is now blaring
down over the Cliffkeep. It's a strangely clear

sky for the north. While a lot of it is relatively
cold usually, you're used to seeing the snow-

capped mountaintops-- oh, you found it! There you
go.

TALIESIN: It was with you the whole time.

LIAM: Must have been inside your shoes.

LAURA: Oh my gosh! I put it in the safe place and
I didn't realize it!

TRAVIS: Thank you, chat.

LAURA: Did they really know where I put it?

TRAVIS: Yeah, they know where your shit is.

SAM: The chat knew where you put your stuff?

TRAVIS: "It's in the page in front of your blue
divider."

SAM: No way!

LAURA: Wow, thank you. Thank you, guys!

LIAM: How many fingers am I holding up?

MATT: So bringing it back in, guys.

SAM: Yes, we have a guest.

MATT: Yes. At some point. So what do you guys want
to do?

SAM: Set off! For the Pools of Hatabah!

(laughter)

TALIESIN: For the forest near the Pools of--

SAM: The adjacent to the Pools of Hatafah.

TRAVIS: We didn't want to bring any extra muscle
with us, do we, from these peeps? Oh wait, we're

misting a long ways away. Never mind. Sorry.
Forget it.

LIAM: Grog, you are our extra muscle.

TRAVIS: See! High five! Up top.

LIAM: I'm not dead.

TRAVIS: His hand's cold.

MATT: So you're traversing via your Wind Walk?

MARISHA: I guess. Are we wind walking there?

LAURA: (mispronouncing) Wind.

MARISHA: (mispronouncing) Wind walk? Wind
walking.

LIAM: (mispronouncing) Wil Wheaton!

SAM: Hey, before we leave, real quick: Kiki.

MARISHA: Yes.

SAM: Can you send messages or anything?

MARISHA: No, man. We have been through this with
our entire group so many times.

SAM: It's just you're so powerful.

MARISHA: Thank you.

SAM: Let's go.

MARISHA: What do you need?

SAM: I would send a letter, but it'll take
weeks. So forget it. We'll be somewhere close to

somewhere with magic soon.

MARISHA: We can leave it in the hands of the
Ashari, see if they can find somebody.

SAM: You trust these folks?

MARISHA: Yeah. They're all right.

TALIESIN and MARISHA: They're not the worst.

SAM: All right, I'll scribble a little note and
say-- well, no, there's no way they can get it to--

it's too far! It's too far!

TALIESIN: I was really excited to see your face
when you handed it to them and they're like, what

are we supposed to do with this?

SAM: Here, I'll show you, Grog.

TRAVIS: Write it out, bitch!

SAM: I write, a sphincter says what.

TRAVIS: A. As. Good message. That's a big word at
the front.

LAURA: You could have gotten the last one,
though.

TRAVIS: What!

SAM: Yes!

MATT: Pike taps you on the shoulder and is like,
"I'll teach you that later."

TALIESIN: Thank you for the Ashley Johnson
simulator. That was weirdly comforting.

MATT: Curse you, Blindspot!

TRAVIS: Yeah! Are we misting?

SAM: Yeah, let's do it.

LAURA: Should we eat a feast first, or should we
save that?

TALIESIN: Let's save that.

LAURA: Okay. I don't know what we're going to
find!

MATT: That's up to you guys. So preparations being
done, you gather your materials, Keyleth completes

the Wind Walk spell and you all feel yourselves
grow slightly lighter on your toes. You

concentrate. Over the minute transformation, you
turn into your mist forms and take off in what

direction?

MARISHA: Towards the Falafel Pools!

SAM: We wrote it down.

TALIESIN: Falafel pool is actually really tasty.

TRAVIS: Pools of Wittebak.

LAURA: Yeah! Towards the mountains!

SAM: He said "which direction?" He did not say
"Where are you going?" He said "which direction?"

LAURA: We got to look at our map.

MARISHA: We have it on the map!

LAURA: We have a map!

MATT: Okay! Well, you have Terrah locked down. The
Pools of Wittebak would not be on your specific map

that you acquired earlier. You can ask around
within Terrah within a brief time and figure it

out. Somewhere between 100 and 120 miles, and he
points in a specific direction. You mark the sun's

traveling and where certain landmarks are.

MARISHA: I quickly do the math of how fast I can
travel and be like okay, it shouldn't take long.

MATT: It's an eastward direction from where you
are.

TALIESIN: You did actually, legitimately point
east, too, which makes that even better.

MATT: That's weird.

TALIESIN: Yeah, that is weird.

MATT: I'm putting points in my nature skill. Or
survival, I guess. Anyway, too many editions in my

head. (laughs) As you all take off into the
morning sky, you begin to rocket over, and you're

hitting jets of wind that are beginning to find
their way over the mountain ranges, and you get

blown a little off-course, but you maintain
concentration as best you can in that direction.

Who is leading this venture?

SAM: I've been there. No, I knew of it, right?

MATT: You knew of it, yeah.

SAM: But I don't know exactly where.

LAURA: After listening to everybody, I'll lead the
way. That way, I can keep an eye out for the

forest next, too, and the house and all the
things we're looking for. I got a good look at the

map that Pelor held up in front of us, as well.

MATT: Right. Okay, cool. I need you to go ahead
and make a survival check. Actually, for this, I'm

gonna say-- yeah, because it would be tracking in
the wilderness. So survival.

LAURA: Survival? Great. Any advantage on that?

SAM: Wilderness is your favored terrain.

MATT: It's mountains, technically.

LAURA: That's also my favored.

MATT: Then yeah, roll again.

TRAVIS: Because that was a one.

LAURA: Oh! So much better. 28.

MATT: Okay, that'll do it. Your speed is
tremendous when in this form, so what would have

been an extended trek on foot over a series of
days, it takes you mere hours to eventually get to

a point where you crest one heavy peak. On the
opposite side, you can see down the cliffside, the

edge reaches a slight precipice, and there you can
see what looks to be for a mile or so a cluster of

dozens and dozens of pools of water of different
sizes, all jammed together in a geothermic

cluster, where you can see bright greens that move
to a deep orange-maroon at the edges from the

various mineral deposits that have collected over
hundreds and hundreds of years. You can see large

columns of smoke and steam of different chemical
colors rising out of various large pools, and at a

glance down, you can see a number of shapes: a
number of hulking, humanoid shapes; somewhere in

the neighborhood of 40 to 50 or so scattered at
different pools, moving in small clusters or

gangs. Some of them are jumping in, cannonballing
and swimming through the actual pools. Some of

them are lounging around and lying. Some of them
appear to be returning, dragging things from the

nearby forest on the eastern side of the bank.

MARISHA: This is a vacation spot. What's that
water park nearby?

LAURA: Wet 'N' Wild?

MATT: Essentially, for a few hundred years, you
get the sense that the Pools of Wittebak have been

a hill giant water park. You can see these large
mounds of mud and scrap wood and things that have

been built into these large hill giant domiciles
onto the side of the mountain not far from the

pools. It's become a definite hill giant wandering
zone. So do you guys continue over the pools, down

towards the nearby forest ridge?

LAURA: Yeah, past the pools.

MATT: All righty. You come to the forest ridge,
and you can see it's not thick forest. The ravine

comes down off the precipice where the pools are.
You get a few hundred-- I'd say, actually more

than that. A thousand or more feet away from that
precipice before plants even begin to grow. It

looks like whatever toxic chemicals have burbled
up in some of these pools have made a lot of the

ground there unable to give any forest life or
sustain any large trees. As soon as the forest

begins, it's a dense little pocket, maybe a mile
and a half, two miles across. That's what you've

got. What do you guys want to do?

LAURA: Oh man. I should try to track any
footprints in there and see if there's something

around the edges, maybe, that lead back to-- shit,
I don't fucking know. It's only a couple of

miles.

MATT: If you guys begin to do a loop-over, who's
doing a quick pass over the patch of forest? All

right, make a perception check.

LAURA: It's the forest. Do I get advantage on that
one? Perception? What is that, 21? 21.

TALIESIN: 12.

MATT: Okay. Glancing over, you don't see any major
glades or clearings. There doesn't appear to be

any sign of bastions of civilization or any sort
of logging going on. There's no areas where trees

have been cut or cleared. It's a featureless
forest top, from what you can see.

LAURA: Can we fly down lower to where we're in
between the trees?

MATT: You can go down into the forest, if you'd
like. All right, who's going into the forest,

then?

MARISHA: I'll go.

LAURA: I'll go. All of us?

MATT: So with Pike following suit, you guys all
swoop down through the boughs of the trees and

into the center of the forest itself. Within
there, it's not a super thick canopy; it's not as

heavy as the Feywild or some of the recent forests
that cluster around Vasselheim. There are breaks

in the canopy where you can see the sunbeams come
through from the morning sun that's rising up

higher and higher in the sky as you've traveled. The
mist has burned away in this area, so it's a nice,

warm forest. Glancing about, there is a lot of
life in here. You can see signs of squirrels. You

rush by what was a family of wolverine-like
creatures that are rustling by. As soon as the

wind scoots in and your mist forms come rocketing
past, they all scatter and run off into the

shadows. There's a lot of forest ground here to
cover. For you to really super track with

advantage, you'd have to go into human form. I'd
give you a regular roll if you want to try and

track in your mist form.

LAURA: Not so much tracking right now, just a
loose passover as we're going, looking for any

kind of hunting traps or trails, signs of life of
things that have been traversed a lot.

MATT: I'd say make an investigation check.

LAURA: 27.

MATT: 27. Begin coasting through tree after tree
through small, tiny bits of clearing that

immediately come into large clusters of trunks and
knotted branches that all merge and cluster at

different intersections. After about 20 or so
minutes of this, trying to do a large spiral

around the forest inward, out of the corner of
your eye, Vex'ahlia, you glance over and see a

quick glimpse of something that appears to be more
structured. You look back and rush over and there

you see amongst the trees what appears to be a
humble-looking two-story home. You see a small

balcony built on the second floor that goes over
one of the larger rooms in the bottom floor. It's

not huge, by any means, and is hidden by a lot of
the local brush and trees there. Can't get a lot

more detail at this distance, though.

LAURA: Okay. We land. I land.

MARISHA: I follow.

LAURA: And behind a tree, I'm going to take form.

MATT: You take your form? Okay. So all of you land
and follow Vex?

SAM: Yeah!

MATT: You all take a minute to go back to your
physical forms. You glance over, and there it is,

standing before you. It's very shaded in this part
of the forest. You can see a little bit of what

looks to be interior light, very faint.

TRAVIS: Like a normal person-sized dwelling?

MATT: Make a perception check.

TRAVIS: Natural 20!

LAURA: Yay!

MATT: It would be a little small for you, Grog.
But you could walk in it. Proportionally, it looks

maybe like it was built for a little bit of a
smaller person.

TRAVIS: Okay.

LIAM: I want to start eyeballing the ground of the
house for any kinds of traps set out. Is that

investigation, yeah?

MATT: That is investigation.

LIAM: 18.

MATT: 18. Okay. So you guys begin to slowly--

TRAVIS: Wait. Before we do, there are no random
nudist giants that have run over in this area,

right? There's nobody sees us over here taking
off?

TALIESIN: You're worried about giants streaking?

TRAVIS: Not particularly.

TALIESIN: That was very specific.

TRAVIS: Well, yeah, have you ever seen a giant
naked? You'll never forget it.

TALIESIN: I might. I don't know.

SAM: Are you suggesting we set up a perimeter?

TRAVIS: Yeah! I mean, it's a tiny house, I don't
really want to go in there. I like having exits I

fit through.

LAURA: I don't want whoever it is to think that we
threaten them in any way. But then, if they

threaten us, I wouldn't want them to attack us,
either.

TRAVIS: Yeah, I'll just knock the house down from
the outside.

TALIESIN: Let's keep this structure standing for
now.

TRAVIS: I'll stay outside.

SAM: Are we knocking properly or are we just going
to Invisibility in and see who's in there?

LAURA: I feel like maybe knock properly.

TALIESIN: If you think long and hard about it,
it's not like manners have failed us very often.

LAURA: Yeah. But do keep an eye out for traps or
anything weird on the way up.

MARISHA: I think we've failed at manners often.

TALIESIN: We fail at manners more often. We'll see
how this goes. We'll try being nice.

TRAVIS: I'll stay out here.

SAM: I'll go knock on the door. It seems like a
smallish door, right?

LAURA: Yeah, I'll go with you.

MATT: Okay, so what's the marching order?

SAM: I'll go first.

LIAM: Nothing perked up my spidey-sense?

MATT: From this current glance, no. You guys are
behind a tree at a distance.

TRAVIS: No nude giants, right?

MATT: Currently, no, but you're keeping an eye
out.

LAURA: I'm walking with a smile, looking very
friendly.

MATT: Who's leading the charge?

SAM: I'll go knock.

LAURA: I'll walk behind Scanlan.

MATT: We have Scanlan and Vex'ahlia.

LIAM: I'm going to go, as well, and continue to
eyeball for traps.

TALIESIN: I'll be hanging back a bit, as well.

MARISHA: I'll be comfortably back, as well.

SAM: Before we knock, what were we told was in
this thing?

TRAVIS: The key.

SAM: The key. Inside a person, inside a house.

LAURA: It's possible the person is the key; we're
not sure.

MATT: Is Trinket within your necklace for this?

LAURA: No, he's out.

MATT: Okay, Trinket is out alongside you. Grog?

LAURA: He's a very friendly bear, look at him!

TRAVIS: I'm outside the house.

LAURA: Trinket, smile! Be friendly!

MATT: As you get across this small walkway towards
the front, as you're walking with a big smile,

Vex'ahlia, something catches your eye on the
ground right before her and you watch as she steps

forward. You reach out and grab her wrist and hold
her back before she steps down.

LAURA: What is it?

MATT: There is a large, rusted, iron bear trap
that is open that you almost stepped right into.

TRAVIS: That would be have been donesies.

LAURA: I was being friendly, and it almost crushed
me. Trinket, be careful, this thing was made for

you.

MATT: Trinket walks up to it.

LAURA: No, no, be careful! Spit on it!

MATT: (growling)

LAURA: Can he spit? Can Trinket spit?

MATT: (bear spitting) It's not very-- it's more of
a power drool, if you will.

LIAM: Is it easy enough to walk around?

MATT: You can walk around that one, and you begin
to see what looks to be seven other ones that are

clustered around.

TALIESIN: This is probably a giant-infested
forest.

MARISHA: Yes, that's exactly why. Bear traps are the
biggest thing you can get for a giant.

SAM: Can we evade them and get into--

MATT: You begin to walk around. Yeah, you would,
actually. As you step around one, you can see, at

the front door, there is a welcome mat that says
"welcome." As you're approaching it, you can see

the welcome mat, there's just something a little
off about it. Like, it's raised higher than the

ground should be.

TRAVIS: Willkommen.

MARISHA: Trapped?

LIAM: Well, I could attempt to dicker with it, but
we could just knock the door over it if we really

are going on manners.

TALIESIN: Double-check to make sure the door isn't
a problem, either. I'd imagine if the welcome mat

is.

LIAM: The door's going to blow up if we knock on
it? I mean, we don't have much luck with doors.

LAURA: Can I grab a stick and lift the edge of the
mat up?

LIAM: Do you want to do that?

MATT: Are you stopping her from doing that?

LIAM: Yes, I am! Let me take a look at it, please!
I've already detected it. I will attempt to disarm

it with thieves' tools, correct?

MATT: Yes.

LIAM: That's fine. That is a 29.

MATT: You walk over. You look and you watch.
There's a small cord that is hidden amongst the

brush that runs from underneath the mat through a
small ring that goes up from the house, then up a

branch or vine, so it's hidden amongst them. You
look straight up about 40 feet, you see a nice,

solid, thick trunk that is just (creaking).

TRAVIS: That's some Predator shit!

MATT: Right above the door.

TALIESIN: I feel like there's a complicated story
that goes along with all of this. I'm really

excited by it.

MARISHA: Is this going to be an Uncharted kind of
adventure?

TALIESIN: We have found the cabin of Macaulay
Culkin!

MATT: So knowing this, you walk over and grab the
cord. Looking to see where the leverage is, you

motion to Grog to come over and hold it. You find
another piece of heavy stone that is by the wall

to the side. With Grog's help, you snip it, bring
it over, and tie it onto the edge of this piece of

the stonework, like a small pole that was placed
at the base of the house. It holds the weight of

this suspended trunk and it no longer triggers
based on the step.

LIAM: Percy, I'm sorry, I know you like a good
Rube Goldberg.

TALIESIN: I was really excited by this thing. It's
a shame to dismantle it.

LAURA: It's still there. Maybe when we leave, we
can crash it down.

LIAM: Does the door look hinky at all?

MATT: Make an investigation check.

MARISHA: You did say kinky, right?

LIAM: I said hinky. 18.

MATT: 18. It does not appear to be trapped, per
se. It does appear to be locked.

LIAM: Yeah, well, I don't want to pick it.

LAURA: I want to use a stick, and oh! Here,
Scanlan, you were going to knock.

SAM: (chuckles) What is this stick?

LAURA: So that you don't have to touch the door in
case it's magic.

MATT: Which as a note, the door, at full height, is
about at the shoulders of most of you. You

recognize this. This is definitely a homestead
built on the scale for probably halfling or gnome.

It's still pretty big for a gnomish home, meaning
it's a little more spacious headroom, you'd

probably be able to stand in comfortably, except
for you, Grog, you're probably a little hunched.

LIAM: So it's like an ostentatious gnome door.
Little more than is needed.

SAM: Like me. I'll just rap on the door with my
knuckles.

MATT: Okay. There is an awkward pause.

SAM: Hello? Bidet?

MATT: Darin, if you want to go ahead onto the
stage, please.

(cheering)

LAURA: I'm glad he didn't murder us with his bear
traps.

SAM: You need this? Oh, you need this. Oh! I've
been goosed.

LIAM: Hey, chaotic evil necromancer gnome.

MATT: You weren't supposed to tell them.

DARIN: I didn't.

MATT: So you hear amongst your business for the
day, out of nowhere (knocking) on the door.

SAM: Kaitiaki!

DARIN: I open it.

MATT: Okay, you hear (clicking) what sounds like
six or seven different locks unlock on the door,

as it slowly swings open, and before them what do
they see?

DARIN: A very small, elderly gnome, bald on top,
with a long white beard, and a bit of a distant

look in his eyes, and he looks at you and says,
are you real?

LAURA: I think so.

DARIN: You're real? Prove it! Say that you're real
to my invisible frog companion.

SAM: I will step forward and say, hello, there.
(whispers) I'm real.

DARIN: Yes, you're real. There is no invisible
frog companion. The voices in my head would not

have spoken to that. (stuttering) They know a
little bit better than that, but that doesn't

matter, I haven't had people here in over 35
years. (laughs) But you're here! And you're real!

Go away.

(laughter)

DARIN: Demistrik, show them out.

MATT: You watch as two tiny red claws come around
the corner as these tiny, impish wings unfurl. You

watch as a tiny imp releases from the edge of the
doorframe. (wings beating) "Get out!"

(door slamming) and slams the door.

DARIN: And show yourself out, Demistrik. I don't
need you here, 19 years of you is more than

enough.

MATT: You hear muffling argument through the door
as the voice goes, "I'll stay where I damn please.

"You gave me permission to stay. If anyone is going
to leave, you're going to leave!"

DARIN: I think you should go to Kraghammer and
become a circus performer with a little tin cup

and a little hat and say, "Oh dear, I am
Demistrik, the magical imp." That's where you

belong, I tell you right now.

MATT: "Sounds like a lot more fun than having to
deal with you on a daily basis, you son of a--"

DARIN: (offended cry) Language, imp!

MATT: The door creaks open once more. "Sorry."
(door closing)

DARIN: The door creaks open again. I'm sorry, as
well. (whispering) For him, he's awful.

LIAM: I stick my foot in!

DARIN: No!

(laughter)

LIAM: I'm really very sorry to bother you, although
I'm delighted to make your acquaintance. I'm

having a very hard time not just smiling like an
idiot. Could we trouble you just for a few

moments? We mean no harm at all. We do need to
talk to you. We've come a very long way... as

farts. That's got to count for something.

LAURA: (sing-songy) We could give you some
interesting conversation. 35 years is a very long

time.

LIAM: We've done a lot, we've seen a lot, we could
tell you all about it.

SAM: I play an old, traditional gnome song to
soften him a bit.

MATT: Make a performance check.

LAURA: What is an old gnome song?

SAM: I don't know.

(laughter)

SAM: 24.

MATT: It's been a long time since you've heard
music, let alone one that scratches an old memory

of childhood. It's nice.

TALIESIN: It's more or less whatever strikes your
fancy, to be fair.

ALL: (humming Going to the Chapel)

MATT: You see the imp in the back going, "Ugh!
Stop that racket!"

DARIN: You don't even appreciate music. What would
an imp song sound like? You can't say one, can

you? Because you don't have music where you're
from.

MATT: "I can, but it'll cause your ears to
bleed! It sounds like this." (screeching)

DARIN: I find that very entertaining.

MATT: "You're such a liar!" The imp (poof)
vanishes before you.

DARIN: He's gone. Don't worry about him. He gets a
little bit... testy, if you will.

SAM: May we speak? May we have a moment of your
time?

DARIN: Oh, well... Very well. You can come in if
you like. Oh! Be careful, there's illusions and

thingamabobbers.

LIAM: (stammers) Sorry, that's infectious. We have
a really big guy. Are you all right with him

coming in? Grog, are you all right with coming
in?

TRAVIS: How the fuck do I get in that damn door?

LIAM: Have you not crawled on all fours before?

TALIESIN: You should try it if you haven't; it's
quite delightful.

TRAVIS: Are you lying?

TALIESIN: No. For once, no, I'm not.

TRAVIS: Can I do an insight check on Percy?

MATT: Sure.

TRAVIS: 19.

TALIESIN: I have never actually been quite so
honest in my entire life. I think you'll find it

very therapeutic.

TRAVIS: I roll in on all fours.

TALIESIN: How does it feel?

TRAVIS: I'm waiting for it to kick in.

TALIESIN: Crawl forward, back a bit, stretch,
downward dog, stretch.

MATT: You watch as this large, gray-skinned
mountain of a man crawls his way in. You could

duck-walk through if you really wanted to. This is
worse than Gandalf in Bag End. All fours is

probably the most comfortable means of transport
through the house. But you walk in and

immediately, you watch as your new gnomish friend
is going around and quickly disabling small

things, putting small keys and tying off strings
and wires you saw that were set up around portions

of the room.

TALIESIN: I am going to try and map this in my
head, the crazy stuff I'm seeing right now.

MATT: This place is a hoarder's den. You see
shelves and shelves of books and papers and

scrolls and stacks of them. You see on bits of
furniture and chairs more stacks of books and

sacks and satchels and quills and inkwells. Some
spilled and left and dried long ago. This place is

very lived-in, very chaotic, and very unique.

LIAM: The first thing that I do as we come in is I
scan the room, or rooms, for more Macaulay Culkin

shenanigans.

MATT: Make an investigation check.

TALIESIN: Maculkins. I think we can just call them
Maculkins now.

LIAM: That is a 21.

MATT: Okay. You do see there's one portion of the
floor that he keeps avoiding, instinctually, that

catches your attention. You're like, "why does he
keep walking around that?"

MARISHA: What's your name, friend?

DARIN: Oh, well, that was taken from me a very
long time ago. I only have what they call me. You

know, names are an odd thing, aren't they?
Sometimes a name can stick to you like blood on a

knife or your fingers on a wallet that might not
be your property, and then who you were is not who

you are and yet... here we are.

MARISHA: That oddly made way too much sense.

SAM: What do they call you?

DARIN: They call me Sprigg. There's more. They
call me Sprigg the Obnoxious.

SAM: Sprigg the Obnoxious?

DARIN: Yes. It's not my given name; it was a name
that was given to me when it was given to me.

LIAM: Did you used to be obnoxious? Because I'm
not picking that up.

DARIN: Oh. We're rarely who we used to be.

TALIESIN: Is there mercury in those pools?

(laughter)

DARIN: Who? Is that a friend of yours?

TALIESIN: I sometimes will talk to the fourth
wall. It's a thing; ignore it.

DARIN: It's a domicile. There has to be four
walls. If there weren't, it would be a yurt. I

don't live in a yurt, dear boy.

MARISHA: I sometimes live in a yurt. They're quite
nice.

DARIN: I have nothing against yurts. (laughs) Like
a stick that you would put in a yurt so it

wouldn't fall over. I would want it to fall over,
therefore, I have nothing against yurts.

(wheezing laughter) Demistrik!

MATT: The imp just appears across
the room and just goes, "Good one. That was-- I am

"so sorry."

LAURA: Pike? Do you think maybe a Greater
Restoration is in order?

MATT: Pike goes, "Why?"

LAURA: No reason.

MATT: "Could I just touch your hand for a second?
Is that okay?"

DARIN: (stuttering) Why?

MATT: "Just to see if we can help your day."

DARIN: Do you not think that I'm real?

MATT: "Probably not."

DARIN: I assure you, I'm real. I'm here. My
companions are long gone. They were like you, like

you, like you, and you, and you, and I'm all that
is left. You are looking into a mirror of your

future.

SAM: I'm going to look like you, or you're going
to look like me?

MARISHA: No, I know what he means. Who were your
companions?

DARIN: Memories. They're all memories now. I don't
even remember their names. I remember some of

them, but we were heroes and now I am here.

MARISHA: Oh no.

LIAM: Were there no other gnome folk in your
party?

DARIN: No, there was one like you, there was a big
one, a mighty one. There was one like you, brave

and kind.

LAURA: That's like me! That's exactly like me.

DARIN: There was one like you. Smart, yet sad. And
you, as well. Yeah, and I was you.

MATT: Pike goes, "Please?" She grabs your hand and
concentrates for a second, you watch as the holy

symbol flares for a moment and the warmth passes
through her arms into your hand. And it feels

nice. It's like holding a freshly heated cup of
tea. And as the spell completes and she pulls

back. "That's all. Thank you."

DARIN: Thank you, very kind of you. Don't ever do
that again.

MATT: "Right, okay. Okay."

SAM: Your companions. Not to bring up sad times.
How long ago did they go away? Perish?

DARIN: 37 years.

SAM: And how, was it in a fight?

DARIN: Oh, yes.

SAM: Against a powerful entity?

DARIN: Oh no. Against ignorance, against bravery
that should never have been. And that's why I'm

here and they're not, because I ran, you see. I'm
your future. You'll all be gone. You and you and

you and you and you, and you'll be left.

LIAM: While listening to all that, Vax slid
his hand into Keyleth's and quietly listened to

the whole thing.

DARIN: Oh, well. Perhaps we should talk of other
things. Should we?

SAM: Yes. Yes, we want this to be a positive visit
for you, so is there anything we can tell you from

the world outside that you might be curious
about?

DARIN: The world outside? Who needs the world
outside? I have everything here, and what I need,

dear boy, I have taken from Kraghammer. All these
books over there, you see, those are mine. They

should have been mine to begin with, and I took
them, and now they are mine. (wheezing laughter)

TALIESIN: I'm going to peruse some of these
titles, quietly.

SAM: The books, you mean?

DARIN: Yes. You'd like to look at the books, would
you?

TALIESIN: I find it's the easiest way to learn
quite a bit about a person.

DARIN: Oh, you're very welcome to look at anything
you like. What will you give me, dear boy? I

require something. And yet, what do I need, living
here? Not much. Intelligence, no. Secrets, no.

Love, no. Sadness, bravery, power. What do you
have that you would give me?

TRAVIS: I reach in the Bag of Holding. I take out
Percy's glasses. Would you care for a pair of

these testicl-- spectacles?

DARIN: I seek power, dear boy, not silliness. If I
wanted silliness, I would talk to a Sun Tree. No

one ever should talk to a Sun Tree, they should
only listen to a Sun Tree. And so I shall say

again, if you would like to peruse my book and
perhaps find what you are looking for, what will

you give me that would bring power and redemption
into my life?

SAM: What do you have, Grog?

LAURA: (whispering) Give him some ale.

TRAVIS: But that's not fucking power.

LAURA: You don't know. Bet it's been a while since
he's had some of that.

DARIN: It seems you have powerful items.

TRAVIS: I do. I have these Bracers of Defense.

DARIN: Ah, but that is strength. I require power.

TRAVIS: (softly) Shit. Fuck.

TALIESIN: Well, I reach into my bag and start
cleaning a small green shard of residuum,

polishing it.

DARIN: Demistrik! If you excuse me for a just--
while you look, I'll just talk to my imp. You'll

pardon us. (whispering) A word, Demistrik?

MATT: "Ugh. Just one moment. What?"

DARIN: The big one worries me. I think we should
have a code in case we have to jump him.

MATT: "What code would you wish?"

DARIN: Goliath grab! But we need to remember that.
We need to remember that.

MATT: "Goliath grab. Good luck!"

DARIN: We need some sort of mnemonic device to
remember goliath grab. G, goodness gracious, grab

that goliath. O?

MATT: "O? Huh. I'll tell you what, I've got your
back."

DARIN: I don't feel that at all. You're right in
front of me. How could you have my back? (wheezing chuckle)

I got you. (laughing) Go away. So what do
you have for me? You've had ample time to look in

your Bag of Holding to produce something very--

TRAVIS: Powerful. Well, I do have one thing that
seems to be pretty powerful.

MARISHA: Oh no, Grog.

TRAVIS: I pull out of the Bag of Holding a small
leather case. I open the flap. I don't know if you

have any interest in this, but my experience with
these items has been very extreme. Would you care

to take a card?

DARIN: Would you care to give them to me?

SAM: All or just one?

TRAVIS: No, you can pick a card.

MATT: Make an arcana check. Roll a d20 and add
your arcana skill modifier to it.

TALIESIN: You are a madman.

DARIN: 15.

MATT: 15. You don't recognize what he's holding in
his hands, but you immediately see the leather

casing around it, and your essence being able to
read certain elements of magic-- It does appear to

be a powerful enchantment, whatever he has
procured from the bag.

DARIN: Indeed. Perhaps one card for one book?

TRAVIS: Yeah, sure. I mean, Percy, do you have a
book out of all of these that you want to read?

DARIN: What are you looking for? What do you seek?
What knowledge? I've got it all here.

SAM: We seek a key.

LAURA: To find a very ancient goddess--

DARIN: Oh, don't say Ioun.

TALIESIN: We're not going to say Ioun.

DARIN: You just did!

LIAM: Is there another name that you would like us
to use? Like a nickname instead of Ioun?

DARIN: The Broken Goddess. I know more than Ioun,
please! Ioun. Gods, what do they know? We know

more than they, for we exist! We live! We
adventure! They merely observe. Am I right?

SAM: You have a point. They don't do much for us
in the day-to-day.

TALIESIN: Are you saying you know more than Ioun?

DARIN: Of course I know more than Ioun.

TALIESIN: Can you prove that you know more than
Ioun?

DARIN: Yes.

TALIESIN: So if I ask you a question that is
almost impossible to answer, you could answer it

before Ioun could answer it?

DARIN: Could Ioun create a rock so heavy that even
she couldn't lift it?

TALIESIN: Oh, please. I'm far too clever to ask
such a simple question. That's easy. I would have

to ask something that was very difficult to
answer.

DARIN: I will give you your answer if you give me
a card.

LIAM: You know, I was just saying what a good idea
I thought it was, but I thought you were talking

about the entire deck, Grog. I think the entire
deck is a fairer thing than to have him pull a

card, because that seems unpredictable to me.

TRAVIS: Yeah, that sounds perfect to me.

LIAM: We're all in a small, enclosed space
together, Grog, and I like this fellow.

LAURA: Sprigg, it is quite powerful, yes, but also
maybe slightly dangerous.

TALIESIN: A bit dangerous, to be fair.

DARIN: I'm here alone. Well, there's... oh, yes.
Go peddle your papers somewhere where they'd like

papers peddled!

LAURA: You're not alone at the moment.

DARIN: That's true!

LAURA: This is very true. And I'd rather not put
my life in the hands of you, not knowing you very

well.

DARIN: Some did. I'm here.

LAURA: Yes.

DARIN: They are not.

LAURA: So something bad could happen, and you'd
run away, and we'd be stuck here?

DARIN: No. 37 years. I ran away. I've been here
deciding how to live again, how not to run away.

That's what all this is about, isn't it? You can't
just hide from the world. I've done it! Done it

for a long, long time. Maybe you being here means
that I should hide no longer. Or maybe I just have

an invisible frog friend. Maybe I have nothing
here, and nothing here.

TALIESIN: Whoever has devised these contraptions
and created this safety for you is a genius. I'm

not saying you're necessarily--

DARIN: It was both of us.

TALIESIN: I somehow don't think so.

DARIN: What?

MATT: "It was all me."

TALIESIN: I've had my own demons to contend with
in my life, to make me doubt my own intelligence.

I get the sense that your compatriot-- I hate to
call it friend, here--

DARIN: I hate to call it friend, and yet I do.
Isn't that right, friend?

MATT: "Unfortunately."

TALIESIN: What are you doing here?

DARIN: You can tell them.

MATT: "No!"

DARIN: Just tell him.

MATT: "No! Why, because he asked me?"

DARIN: Yes! Be polite. They're guests in our home.

MATT: "Oh, it's not our home."

DARIN: 19 years you've been here, ever since your
master died trying to enter and got tricked into

one of my traps, and now you're here-- does that
answer your question?-- now, why don't you tell

him what I just said?

MATT: "My master died trying to get in here on
one of the traps, and now I call this my home."

DARIN: Beautifully said. Bravo. You should be a
little performer in Kraghammer. You know what the

reviews would be? Not very good! Shameful
behavior. Abysmal behavior from the Abyss itself!

TALIESIN: We don't have much. Many of the things
that we carry are very dangerous. Obviously, you

have a great deal of genius here. I'm going to
show him the elemental shard. I don't know if this

would interest you, but I consider it to be of
great value.

MATT: So you're showing him the residuum piece?

TALIESIN: The last piece of residuum I have.

MATT: All right. So this is a sliver of what looks
like green glass. It's finely polished, about that

thick, that long. You've read about this. You've
read that condensed residuum is very susceptible

to enchantment and/or the focusing of short-term
magic spells. It's expensive, it's lauded, it's

hard to find.

DARIN: I will use that Ring of Telekinesis to lift
it up and take a better look at it.

MATT: You watch as it darts out of your hand and
wisps up, maybe two feet ahead of him, and slowly

rotates above him as he inspects it.

TALIESIN: Impressive, but not as impressive as the
giant log.

DARIN: Oh, yes. But is there power in this, dear
boy? Or are there only secrets? For you are

secrets. He is power.

TALIESIN: I may be secrets, and that is of me, but
I believe there is power in its secret. People

died for that. Many people.

DARIN: People die every day. Except me. That's my
punishment, child. I live on. I live on with my

shame and my intelligence and you.

LAURA: Because of Ioun?

MARISHA: What's your relationship to her?

DARIN: What is anyone's relationship to a god?

MARISHA: Good question.

LAURA: Some of us are champions. Some of them
don't like them. Some of them worship them but

don't really get respect. What's yours?

DARIN: All of that and more.

LAURA: So you're a champion? Are you a champion of
Ioun?

MARISHA: You're a champion of Ioun. Of course he's
a champion of Ioun.

DARIN: I wouldn't say that.

TALIESIN: But we might, wouldn't we?

DARIN: Champion of Ioun?

MATT: (demonic cackling)

DARIN: Are you going to start calling me Ioun's
Champion?

MATT: "Only if it bothers you, Ioun's Champion!"

DARIN: I like it. Drat, eh? Drat. You tell them
what you know of Ioun.

MATT: "She's a heinous bitch who got what's coming
to her 800 years ago."

MARISHA: What?

DARIN: It's a bit common, but that is his belief.
What is yours? What is your thought about Ioun?

SAM: We know that she possesses knowledge that
could help us in our quest to save the world, and

therefore, no matter what her personality is, she
is valuable to us.

DARIN: And yet, is there value in saving the
world? Or should you just let it all go away?

LAURA: No, no, I think we should save it.

SAM: Yeah, we're pro-world here.

DARIN: Are you? That is interesting.

LIAM: Sprigg, you're seeking power.

DARIN: I seek redemption. There is great power in
redemption.

LIAM: We offer you redemption. Collaborating with
us grants you the power to fell a would-be god.

DARIN: Excuse me. For one second. Can I speak to
you for just a second?

MATT: (flapping wings) "What?"

DARIN: He's tricky. I think we should get a
mnemonic device on what we need to do if he

becomes too tricky. We should say, elf boy grab!
E! For egads! There's an elf, we should grab him.

L! Let's grab that elf boy.

MATT: "Right, all right." You guys can hear all of
this.

DARIN: F. Forsooth, I shall grab this elf boy!

LIAM: I'm not an elf. Not an elf.

MARISHA: Why do people like calling you elf boy
and elf girl?

LIAM: We have vaguely pointed ears. Not even
fully pointed ears. My mother was not an elf.

DARIN: Just a second. He's not an elf!

MATT: "We'll stick with the device. I've got your
back."

DARIN: I still don't feel it.

MATT: "You will."

DARIN: All right. Hello!

SAM: Hi. Hi, mirror man. Listen.

DARIN: All right.

SAM: Let's cut to the chase here. We need
information from you.

DARIN: Indeed.

SAM: You need something from us. Grog, give him a
card.

MARISHA: Wait.

SAM: We're dancing around this! We need this man!

LAURA: He took the stone! Are you taking the
stone?

SAM: Are you going to take the stone as a source
of power? He said it's too mysterious.

LIAM: I thought we were talking about redemption.

DARIN: If you'll allow me. You've been very
quiet.

MARISHA: Yes, I'm a little freaked out right now.
You're my worst fear incarnate. Sorry, that seemed

very rude. My worst nightmare incarnate.

DARIN: That didn't make it any better, dear
child!

MATT: (cackling)

DARIN: (shushing) Go ahead. Why am I your worst
fear in a carnation?

MARISHA: I've seen you in my dreams.

DARIN: Hear that?

MATT: "Go get her, tiger."

LAURA: Trinket starts chasing the imp around the
room.

MATT: "No!" Up into the corner, (hissing). Turns
invisible.

DARIN: Oh, I guess you found that unbearable!

SAM: That was a good pun.

MATT: You hear the tiniest little demonic fart by
your ear.

LIAM: I'm also gently steering Trinket away from
the floorboard in the middle of the room as he

walked by.

MARISHA: Somehow everything you have said since
the minute we've walked into this building has

made 100% sense, and I think that's what scares me
the most, is I understand everything you've said.

DARIN: It should scare you the most. I was one of
you. I did what you did. 37 years ago, I did it.

And we fought, and we fought, and they were right
here. They were right here!

SAM: Who is they?

DARIN: My companions.

SAM: And who were you fighting against? You, we?

TRAVIS: Vecna.

DARIN: No.

SAM: Gods?

DARIN: It was silly. It was hobgoblins. It should
never have happened. It was a simple fight, and

they died, and I ran, and I can't even remember
their names.

LIAM: Sprigg.

DARIN: Yes?

LIAM: Would you like to be needed again? Maybe
it's time to stop running.

DARIN: What would I do?

MARISHA: We can grant you power in items, but I
don't want to speak for all of us, but I think all

of us can speak a little bit to the fact that
items don't grant you as much inner power as you

expect them to.

LAURA: Unless they're boots. And then they're
amazing.

MARISHA: Unless they're very highly argued and
debated-upon boots, in which case I still think

the argument--

DARIN: Are we about to have a debate about boots?
I'm against them! Your turn.

LAURA: I am for them, usually.

DARIN: Continue, Councilor, but watch yourself.

LAURA: Have you any idea where the key to Ioun
is?

DARIN: In the boots? We're talking about boots,
are we?

LAURA: Yes. Boots that hold a key to Ioun's
location. Specifically.

DARIN: I think the key might be here, but I don't
really know.

LIAM: Sprigg, the world is on the brink right now.
It's worse than hobgoblins. We've come here in

great need, and the world is in great need, and
the power that I offer you is making a

difference.

DARIN: Then make me believe in Ioun. We'll make a
difference together.

LIAM: Make you believe?

MARISHA: Of course he believes. Believing is not
the question.

DARIN: Books everywhere, you see. That's something
you can hold. That's something you can learn.

MARISHA: That's something that's tangible. Ioun is
distant.

LAURA: But she could be tangible if you'd help us
find her.

MARISHA: What if we have found her? What if Sprigg
is right? What if all of the information that Ioun

knows is here in Sprigg?

TALIESIN: I really want to look at these. I want
to look at these books really quickly. I'm having

a moment. I just want to start looking at these
titles. What are these books?

MATT: You go over and start walking towards the
edge of the nearest bookcase, and all of you at

once-- everyone but Sprigg, actually-- suddenly
hear a voice come through, filling your mind,

filling your consciousness, filling your ears.
Sourceless, delivered to your consciousness

directly. "Thank you for showing me where he is."
And that's where we're going to take a break.

LIAM: Fuck!

MARISHA: How? We don't have the eye! What a cock!

TALIESIN: Oh my god, he's been in the troll dick
all along.

MARISHA: It's always been the troll dick.

MATT: All right, we'll be in just a minute. We'll
be back here in a few minutes, guys. For the

Twitch giveaway, we have this awesome Peruvian
walnut dice tray, leather interior. It's very

nice. It's the same type that I have, actually,
back here, which is nice. Giving it away for

somebody in the Twitch chat, so run on over, and
the code for the evening is Sprigg. S-P-R-I...

DARIN: G-G.

MATT: G-G. Double G.

DARIN: S-P-R-I-G-G spells Sprigg, ladies and
gentlemen, if you want to win that valuable

prize.

MATT: So pay attention in the chat. When it's time
to, go ahead and enter Sprigg into the chat, and

one lucky winner will be announced when we get
back here. See you guys in a few minutes!

[break]

MATT: Hello, everyone, and welcome back. All
right, so first and foremost, we have our winner

for the dice tray from Wyrmwood. That is our
friend k0sn1ght, spelled in the way that you spell your

XBox Live name: k0sn1ght. Congratulations, you are
the winner. Go ahead and contact Danoba and get

your information and we'll get that shipped out to
you. Bringing us back in.

TALIESIN: That was fast.

MATT: Last we left off, you all, almost all of
you, heard a singular familiar voice. The low,

gravelly undead voice of The Whispered One fills
your minds, saying, "Thank you for showing me

"where he is." In that moment where you all pause
in place, you hear a series of simultaneous sounds

(arrows firing) as a number of heavy crossbow
bolts from nearby windows all fire simultaneously

at Sprigg.

MARISHA: Do I have time for a reaction?

MATT: No, you do not. This is a surprise round.

LIAM: This is the sound of bolts, no.

TRAVIS: It's all right, he can't die. It's cool.
We're all right.

MATT: So that first one is a 24. What's your armor
class?

DARIN: My armor class is 19.

MATT: Okay! So you take 23 points of piercing
damage.

DARIN: Okay. Oh, there we go.

MATT: That's 17. That misses you. It strikes your
shoulder and glances off. One bolt sinks into your

chest and you look down and you see it's this big,
long heavy metal bolt and it's jutting out from

the side of where your shoulder and pec is.
Another one rushes by and glances off your other

shoulder. The third one--

DARIN: Well, this is different.

MATT: That hits. That's a 25. That's 23 points of
piercing damage.

TALIESIN: Oh no.

MATT: That one actually misses; a six and a one.
It slams into one of the nearby books right behind

you, barely moving past your cheek. Fifth one,
that is a 19 exactly, so you take 24 points of

damage.

LAURA: How many fucking bolts are there?

MARISHA: 24?

MATT: They're all sneak attack. And that is 20.

DARIN: Another one?

MATT: Another one.

DARIN: Okay.

MATT: That one's going to be 26 points of piercing
damage.

DARIN: I'm gone.

MATT: You guys watch as all these bolts (arrows
firing and impacting) into Sprigg's body and

Sprigg falls back, unconscious on the side of the
room. I'm going to bring out a map now.

DARIN: Fly, you fools!

MARISHA: (yelling) No, Sprigg!

SAM: Darin, it was really great having you on.
Thanks so much.

LAURA: Whoa, cool!

SAM: Whoa, this is a cute house!

LAURA: Oh, I can't see inside of it.

MATT: Moving the top floor off.

LIAM: There's crates of apples!

SAM: There's a sack of something in the corner! Oh
my god, how are we all going to fit in there?

MATT: Sprigg is currently unconscious on the
ground there. Percival was there talking. Trinket

is off to the side.

LAURA: Trinket! Where's the imp?

MATT: The imp is not currently visible. Pike would
be over on the side here. Keyleth, Vax, where

would you guys see yourselves right now? Actually,
tell me where you would be. I think that's what

I'm trying to ask.

LIAM: I would be right next to Keyleth because I
was holding her hand.

MATT: As I chuck you onto the ground.

LIAM: It's all right. It's fine.

MATT: Yeah, comes back in a day later. All right,
cool. So you're there holding that. Scanlan, where

would you be?

SAM: Near Sprigg-ish.

MATT: All right, so I'll put you right there next
to the scroll in the ground.

LIAM: And Matt? Could you touch on the map where
the bad man touched you? No, where the bad

floorboard is?

MATT: Yes, actually, I can do that.

LIAM: None of you know this.

MATT: None of you know this, except for you, which
is actually why I'm not going to show you. You

know how to avoid it, but nobody else knows where
it is.

LAURA: Where is the front door?

MATT: The front door is right there.

LIAM: There, over by Grog on your right.

SAM: These trees need to move.

LAURA: I know, these trees are a pain in our
butts. Oh no.

SAM: There's cloaked men everywhere

MATT: You watch as one that was up in the stairs
vanishes up top.

TRAVIS: Oh, he actually made it upstairs?

MATT: He fired, and then ducked up there. I need
everyone to roll initiative.

SAM: Initiative?

MATT: Yes. Including you, even though you're on
the ground.

MARISHA: Don't. Fuck. Me. Gil. It's fine. Gil did
all right.

SAM: I don't trust Gil. I never roll on his dice.

LIAM: Rarely. I have, but I got my Matt Colville
meteorite.

MATT: 25 to 20?

TALIESIN: 23.

LIAM: 20.

TRAVIS: 22.

MATT: Oh wow, so we have Percy, we have Grog, and
Vax. Okay, 20 to 15?

SAM: 19.

LAURA: Should somebody roll for Pike?

MATT: Yes, actually. Okay, yeah.

DARIN: Also a 19.

MATT: Okay.

TALIESIN: You've got a very low initiative bonus.

MATT: All righty, anybody else?

LAURA: 13.

MARISHA: 12. I don't know why I did deuces. 12.

TALIESIN: Peace out.

SAM: NKOTB.

MARISHA: 12 initiative, Wu Tang out.

TALIESIN: That's our next shirt.

SAM: Quidd, everyone. Quidd.

LAURA: Quidd.

LIAM: Quid pro quo.

MATT: All right, so top of the combat round. The
surprise round is done, you watch Sprigg fall to

the ground, bolts sticking out of the side of the
neck, the shoulder, and the body. Unconscious, now

beginning to pool blood underneath where he's
bleeding out, and you glance around and you see a

series of shaded figures in the windows that all
dart out of the way.

MARISHA: Cowards.

LAURA: Dicks.

SAM: Oh, they left. The fight's over, everyone.

MATT: Percy, you're up first.

TALIESIN: Wow, this is a lot that happened. I'm
going to click my boots, and I'm going to run up

the wall and run upstairs.

MATT: Which, for the purposes of this, I will
place the upstairs over here. So as you dart up,

Percival, you run up the stairway there where the
one guy you saw was standing.

TALIESIN: Is he right there?

MATT: Yeah, he ducked out of the way, and there's
also one figure that you recognize from the

Shadowfell earlier. You see one of the ghastly
creatures that was darting through the ruins

leaping from from rooftop to rooftop. Its skin is
grayish and long, its limbs lanky, its fingers

curled into claws, and this long tongue dangling
from his jaws, it's getting ready to run down the

stairs as you charge him, and it goes (growls).

TALIESIN: Manners! Action Surge!

MARISHA: Yay, Manners!

MATT: Okay then.

MARISHA: We're bad at manners, until now!

MATT: All righty, so what's the saving throw on
that one?

TALIESIN: It's a DC 20 strength. Oh, I'm sorry,
no. Never mind. It's an attack roll.

MATT: Okay, so you have to roll first to see if
you hit it.

TALIESIN: 18.

MATT: 18? Yeah, that definitely hits. It hits, and
you watch as you pull the sphere out and chuck it in

the direction of the creature. Pulls its claws back,
slams into its chest, and then unravels.

It falls to the ground, prone, unable
to move, right there in the middle of the floor.

TALIESIN: Just making sure that I can do this.

MATT: Was that your action, there, doing that?

TALIESIN: That was my action surge. I can only do
one round. Just seeing if I have anything at a bonus that

I can do.

MATT: You spent your action--?

TALIESIN: My action, I activated my boots. My
action surge activating that. Do I have anything I

can do with a bonus action?

MATT: Not really.

TALIESIN: I'm going to turn to the other guy and
pull the ripcord on the glove angrily. (revving)

MATT: You load up Diplomacy. Good. That's your
turn, Percy. Grog, you're up.

TRAVIS: Me? Oh? Can I go into a rage?

MATT: Yes, you may.

TRAVIS: And he fell where?

MATT: He fell right there, on the ground,
currently bleeding out.

TRAVIS: Can I run over to Sprigg and shove a--
should I shove a health potion in his throat?

LAURA: Well, we've got healers.

TRAVIS: Right. I'll run upstairs to see where Percy
went.

MATT: You rage-run just past Percival and you see
there's one creature bound on the ground and

there's another guy who's there with his crossbow,
he's trying to reload, who sees Percival and is

getting ready to pull it up as you leap in front.

TALIESIN: Smash him!

TRAVIS: Do you mind?

TALIESIN: Please!

TRAVIS: Yeah. (rage noises)

MATT: Go for it. Roll for a double attack.

TRAVIS: Reckless! Not Great Weapon Master.
Two-handed with the Dwarven Thrower. That's a lot.

30, minus-- oh, there is no minus. 32.

MATT: 32 hits. Second attack?

TRAVIS: 31.

MATT: Hits. Go ahead and roll damage for both.

TRAVIS: So they're not giants. So I just roll a
d10. That's a ten. Rage damage. 25.

MATT: 25 damage on the first hit?

TRAVIS: On the first one. Second one.

LAURA: 24.

TRAVIS: Yeah.

MATT: Nice. With your hammer, two hands, whack
right across the side of its head. You see the jaw

unhinge from the side. As he pulls back, it's
hanging loosely there, and the second hit you

clock right in the side of the temple, and it
nearly goes unconscious, and picks itself up

again, gets its crossbow ready. It's still
holding. It's not down yet, but it's hurt badly.

You can see now, up close, you can see these
figures, they're dressed in very, very tight black

leathers, cloaks enshrouding their body, the hood
is still up, but you've knocked it back. There you

see a human male in his late 40s, early 50s, the
head shaved completely bald, a tattoo of black

tendrils around the left eye, and the left eye is
missing from the socket.

TRAVIS: Black tendrils? Okay, cool. That's my
turn.

MATT: That's your turn. All right. Grog's done.
Vax, you're up.

LIAM: Okay, let's talk this out. Click the Boots
of Haste. I think, with 120 feet of movement, I

can blur up the stairs to where Percy is in
probably 50 or 60 feet. And then finish that

movement and go past the guy, out the window, with
all of my movement in 120 feet or less. Okay, so

I'm doing that.

MATT: There's also a window here, a window here,
and a window here. Just so you guys know, and a

window here, if you wanted.

LIAM: Definitely understand. Blur up the stairs,
shoot past Percy, shoot past that guy, out the

window.

MATT: You're on the balcony now, looking right about
here.

LIAM: Do I already see those guys?

MATT: Make a perception check.

LIAM: 19 plus 14 is a hell of a lot.

MATT: 19 plus 14? Yeah, you do see them. And you
glance down, you can see they're hiding amongst

bushes, and they're specifically stealthed. But
you're keen of eye enough to see where they're

placed.

LIAM: I stealth, hide. Bonus action to hide. I'm
going to use Luck. That's better. 27.

MATT: 27. Okay. You're not sure if they see you or
not.

LIAM: All right, then from this spot, if they're
in range, I'm going to throw Whisper at one of

them.

MATT: Right now, you are currently up here. So you
glance off and you can barely see one that's over

the edge of the roof right there. That's the only
one you can see.

LIAM: But I can see them and I can ignore
three-quarters cover because of Sharpshooter.

MATT: So you barely see the edge of one there.
Sharpshooter. I'd say yeah, you can. You can hit

both, if you want.

LIAM: So the one that I can see, hidden, I will try
to throw Whisper. I'm going to hopefully sneak

attack him and bamf there. That is a 28.

MATT: 28. He does not see you. So you have
advantage on that if you want to roll again.

LIAM: Right. Natural 20.

TALIESIN: Turn him into paste.

LIAM: Okay. (counting)

SAM: Did Pike roll?

MATT: Pike did.

LAURA: What did she get?

MATT: 11. Typical Pike.

MARISHA: She's after me.

LAURA: Well, no, but Sprigg is right after Scanlan.
He's before we are. So I'd rather get him up

before.

LIAM: So that one is 60 on that guy.

MATT: 60 points of damage?

LIAM: Yes, and I bamf there.

MATT: As you chuck the dagger, like right towards
where the center of the shoulderblades connect in

the back he (groans) and you watch as the crossbow
that he had drops to the ground and he crumples

over on top of it, but he slowly starts getting to
his feet out of the bushes. He looks really hurt,

but he's still standing. And you appear right next
to him there.

LIAM: So I did movement, I hid for my bonus, I
have action-action as a paladin. And action.

MATT: You have attack-attack as a paladin.

LIAM: Attack-attack as a paladin. And then my
bonus action. That was the first of attack-attack,

so now I'll just do a regular attack, which is a
20--

LAURA: (sarcastically) I'm so glad he got those
boots back, I'm just so glad.

LIAM: 30.

MATT: 30 hits.

LIAM: That is a ten and I'm going to pump him full
of poison. He has to make a DC check on 15.

MATT: That is a seven. No. Four plus three.

LIAM: So he also gets, that was ten plus 14 total.
20 total, between the dagger and the poison.

MATT: So the second dagger, you shiv him in the
side and he (groans) goes to spin with the heavy

crossbow and try and pull away, and as soon as the poison
through him he goes, (gurgles) and you can see

blood vomit down the front of his chest, his eyes
roll back and he twinges and falls to the ground.

LIAM: And there's another guy there who can see
me, right?

MATT: Yeah, and he's hidden, but he's like
(scared, heavy breathing).

LIAM: Whisper.

MATT: Okay, he's trying to see that you're not
being seen.

LIAM: That is 31. Yeah, okay. So that is two plus
eight is ten, plus psychic damage. 18. I'm going

to bamf there with Whisper.

MATT: Okay. All righty. You hit him and you stand
there. You're right in front of him now. All

righty. That ends your go. As you appear over on
the other side, you realize that over in the

clearing there, there is another one of the robed
figures, this one clutching a long, black, smooth

staff that crooks over in the front that looks
like a hand holding an eye.

MARISHA: What? Where? Who?

There were more of them!

LIAM: But you guys don't know that yet.

MATT: You guys don't know that yet, just him.
Ending your turn, Vax. That guy on the ground is

going to try and break free. That is a 17. DC 20?

TALIESIN: DC 20.

MATT: It struggles on the ground and can't seem to
break free of the current magic manacles that hold

it in place.

TALIESIN: Yeah, he's stuck. I love that we have
floors!

MATT: Another one of these darts through the
window, leaps across the way, right in front of

Sprigg, and you being right there, Scanlan, goes,
(angry hissing) and lashes out at you.

MARISHA: He's going for Sprigg!

TALIESIN: He's going for Scanlan.

MARISHA: But because Scanlan's over Sprigg!

TALIESIN: Oh, that's fair.

MATT: Makes two claw strikes at you. First one is
16 to hit.

SAM: Yes.

MATT: All right. You suffer eight points of
slashing damage, and I need you make a

constitution saving throw.

SAM: Oh boy. Not great. 16.

MATT: 16, okay.

SAM: Is it magical?

MATT: No, it is not magical, but you feel this
pulse of some sort of necrotic disease hit your

system, and you just manage to shrug it off.

(relieved cheering)

MATT: The other claw comes towards you.
That's a natural 20.

SAM: Natural 20 to hit, sure.

MATT: That is 30 points of slashing damage on the
second hit. Make another saving throw, please.

SAM: That's 17.

MATT: 17. The second strike hits you and you feel
as the side of your torso gets torn out of the

side, the blood splatters onto Sprigg, who's already
bloodied and now there's gnome blood on gnome

blood. As you reach for your side, however, it
does not take effect; you manage to shrug off.

TRAVIS: Those are constitution saving throws?

MATT: Yeah. That ends the shadow ghast's turn.
Sprigg, I need you to make a death saving throw,

please. Roll a d20.

LIAM and MARISHA: Come on, Sprigg!

DARIN: 14.

MATT: Okay, so you're okay for now. You're
stabilizing. You're not bleeding out, yet. Mark a

success on your death saving throws there.
Scanlan, what are you doing?

SAM: I am going to, bonus action-- down here,
success, one.

MATT: Actually, before he even does that, what are
you doing on your turn?

SAM: I'm going to heal him first.

MATT: That roll wouldn't matter because he may heal
you before you come up. Don't worry about it.

SAM: I'll bonus action Healing Word him,
2nd-level. I will sing to him. I'll do a little

line dance right in front of him and I'll say:
(singing) I'll heal your heart, your achy breaky

heart. I just don't think you'll understand. That
if I heal your heart, your achy breaky heart, you

got to wake up and kill a man!

ALL: Ooh!

DARIN: (singing) If only you had used Mage Hand!

SAM: Nice!

MATT: So how much does he heal?

SAM: Seven plus six. 13.

MATT: You heal 13 hit points. That roll doesn't
matter. You hear this echoing song in the back of

your head. The second song today you've heard from
your childhood. You come to consciousness. You

wake up and look around you and you can see him
singing to you as this giant horrible necrotic

creature is looming right in front of you. You
have metal bolts sticking out of your chest and an

old sensation you haven't felt in a long time
courses through your body, which is the need to

survive.

SAM: It's my turn still.

MATT: It's both of your turns at the same time.

SAM: I will hold my turn.

MATT: What are you going to do?

SAM: Dimension Door, but I'm holding until either
Pike or Keyleth heals him more. And I will also

say to him, old man, do you have some fight left
in you?

DARIN: I hope so.

SAM: Hold that thought for one second.

DARIN: Holding.

MATT: So what are you doing?

DARIN: There's a bookcase, is there not?

MATT: There's bookcases here, bookcase there.
There's books strewn and clustered in these

corners.

DARIN: I'd like to, if I could, use the Ring of
Telekinesis to pull a bookcase down upon an

attacker.

MATT: Okay. Currently there's a bunch of books up
here on a shelf, you can pull them down on him if

you'd like.

DARIN: I would like to do that.

MATT: So from the ground, you yank a bunch of
heavy tomes off of this large shelf that goes

flying towards this creature. I'm going to make
this a dexterity saving throw for it.

MARISHA: The pen is mightier than the bookcase
security!

MATT: What's the DC on the telekinesis ring?

DARIN: Where was it? Ring of Telekinesis.

MATT: I'll pull it up here real fast. Looking up
magical items really fast. I have it here. Oh,

it's for the spell Telekinesis? That's right.
What's your spell DC?

DARIN: 17.

MATT: 17. No, that's a failure. So for this, go
ahead and roll 3d6.

SAM: He failed, or the guy failed?

MATT: The guy failed. He didn't dodge out of the
way. He's like, (confused snarling, book impacts)

and gets pummeled from behind by a bunch of tomes,
books, and random glass baubles that were on the

shelf that shatter against the back of its head.

DARIN: We have a six, we have a five, and we have
a two. 13.

MATT: Then add your intelligence modifier.

DARIN: My intelligence modifier is a four.

MATT: 17, nice! 17 points of damage to that one.
As you slam it in the back of the head (impacts)

and it doubles over and (snarling), its long
tongue slashing around. You're still on the ground,

and it's over you. Is there anything else you want
to do on your turn?

DARIN: Demistrik?!

MATT: You hear nothing.

TALIESIN: Not cool.

DARIN: Can I cast something?

MATT: That is an action to do that, so if you have
a bonus action spell, you could do that.

DARIN: I believe I do. Tasha's Hideous Laughter?

MATT: I believe that's an action to cast,
unfortunately.

DARIN: I don't think we have any bonus actions.
Oh, are there any healing potions that I can use

my Telekinesis to get a healing potion to me?

MATT: You can do that next round. The attack was
your one action. You can stand on your feet, if

you'd like to.

DARIN: No, I'm gonna stay right here.

MATT: Got it. That ends your turn. Now, these guys
go again.

LAURA: That's good, they're at disadvantage, now,
to hit you. They are! Because you're prone.

MATT: This guy's going to move in. This guy is
still standing and is going to drop the crossbow

and pull out his shortsword. Is going to go ahead
and attack you, Grog, first. That is 13?

TRAVIS: Misses.

MATT: And a 27.

TRAVIS: That does hit.

MATT: You take five plus four, that's nine points
of slashing damage, reduced to five, yeah. Round

down, so it's four. Struck twice, missed both. Both of
these guys are going to fire at-- one of them's

going to fire at Sprigg on this end because it's
their goal, here. With disadvantage, that is a 16?

What's your AC again?

DARIN: My AC is 19.

MATT: 19, yeah. It darts over you. It misses, it
hits the side of the wall. The other guy's going

to strike again with disadvantage. That's a 14.
And you see the other guy pulling back with a

crossbow and fire. You roll out of the way and it
(arrow vibrating) into the wooden flooring right

next to you.

DARIN: Are there any traps that they hit?

MATT: No. That one is going to attack you, Vax,
because you're right there in front of it. That's

going to be a 13. Does not hit. Second strike,
another 13. Both of its shortsword attacks, you

duck out of the way and dodge, moving around very
quickly. All righty. Those two right there, one of

them is going to, because it saw that you got up,
Scanlan, they're going to fire two bolts directly

at you. That is a 16 to hit?

SAM: That hits.

MATT: Okay, and the second one is a 24.

SAM: Everything hits.

MATT: You are currently in base-to-base with one
of their companions, so they both get sneak attack

on you. 19 points of piercing damage from the
first hit. 24 points of piercing damage from the

second hit. And then they both duck around the
side here.

SAM: What was the second one? 24.

MATT: They both, we'll say, they vanish from
sight. You're not quite sure where they are right

now. Those two also duck out of sight, not quite
sure where they are, either. That ends their go.

Now, the guy in the back right there, who noticed
Vax show up, is going to, after you slaughter one

of the guys, and stab the other one, is going to
angrily go ahead and use Blight on you. Can you

go ahead an make a constitution saving throw,
please?

LIAM: Natural 20. You fucking dick, necro guy!

MATT: All righty. That does half the damage.

LIAM: It's still a lot.

TALIESIN: I feel like a natural 20 should
auto-fail this.

LAURA: I know, right?

MATT: 21 points of necrotic damage to you.

LIAM: All righty.

MATT: And is going to-- four, five, six. All
righty. That ends his turn. Vex, you're up.

LAURA: I'm going to run over to the window that
those guys disappeared from.

MATT: Over this way or this way?

LAURA: Right there, yeah. Can I see that
motherfucker? Did I see him run past the window?

MATT: You know what? Yes, because he was not
stealthing. You watch as he darts by, and you

would have a shot, yeah.

LAURA: All right, then I'm going to shoot at him.
I'm going to Hunter's Mark him!

MATT: All righty, look at that!

LAURA: Trinket doesn't have enough movement to get
over by him, does he?

MATT: No, but Trinket can attack whatever's in
your area, too.

LAURA: I'm going to attack him with my Bramble
Shot. With the Blazing Bowstring. Ooh, yeah.

That's a 31.

MATT: 31? That hits!

LAURA: Yes! Okay! Do I get sneak attack on him? I
don't, do I?

MATT: No.

LAURA: Damn! At least I got Hunter's Mark. Okay.

LIAM: Hey Matt, I realized. I never shot out the
wings, so I shouldn't have had as much movement as

I did, so I think we should take the damage back
from my last attack.

MATT: (counting). 50 to get up to the top there,
so at your double speed, you'd be at 60, threw the

dagger and threw the dagger. You're fine. It still
works out.

LAURA: Okay, 28 plus my 4d8 piercing damage.
That's balls.

MATT: You're on deck, Keyleth, just so you know.

LAURA: Seven, nine, plus nine is 37. 37 points of
damage.

MATT: The first arrow hits him in the stomach,
doubles forward and pulls back. Now, glancing

over, saw you rush up and couldn't get out in time
and now is going to try and back up as you're

taking the second shot.

LAURA: Does he roll a DC of over 17? A strength
save?

MATT: Rolls a natural 17. Literally. Strength
save? Minus one strength modifier.

(cheering)

MATT: Oh, silly necromancer. You and your
strength of nine. All right, so he is currently

entangled in the brambles as the vines wrap
around and pull him in, almost near the tree. You

see the staff is pulled close to his chest.

LAURA: Nice. Then I am going to shoot him. Oh,
wait! I didn't add my Blazing Bowstring damage.

Eight more for the Blazing Bowstring. And then I'm
going to shoot him again. I'm just asking: do you

get sneak attack damage if they're restrained?

MATT: You do, yeah. You can do that. You have
advantage on the attack, remember, because he's

restrained.

LAURA: That's okay. Eight plus 14 is what? 32?

MATT: Yeah, that hits.

LAURA: Oh gosh! Okay! Ten, 11, 12, 13, plus sneak
attack. 13. What's that? Ten. So 23. And then

Hunter's Mark. Plus one. 24.

MATT: 24. Nice. The second arrow hits right in the
throat, and you can see it doesn't hit anything

vital, but you can see blood's starting to pour
out. It's one of those things that if he were to

pull it out, it would probably be very bad. But
he's leaving it in right now. He's looking pretty

rough.

TRAVIS: The necromancer is?

MATT: Yeah. All righty. That ends your turn?
Keyleth, your turn.

LAURA: I'm going to step away from the window.

MATT: Okay. Step away from the window.

LAURA: No, against the wall.

MATT: Against the wall there? You push the table
back a bit; book almost falls off the top. What's

Trinket doing?

LAURA: Trinket is going to run over to Sprigg and
Scanlan.

MATT: Up to Scanlan, or the guy who's there?

LAURA: Just to the guy.

MATT: Okay.

LAURA: Just try to growl at him and scare him
because he can't attack him.

TALIESIN: He's technically now engaged with the
bear, so if he walks away, the bear gets an attack

of opportunity.

MATT: That's true. That ends your turn. Trinket
goes (roars) right in front of the creature.

Keyleth, what are you doing?

MARISHA: Okay. In my weird, emotional panic,
Keyleth is going to turn and look around and she

sees Vex firing a bow and Sprigg down on the
floor, and she's upset, and she's just going to

scream at the top of her lungs and do a Fire Storm
around the building. Just (screams) and then I'm

going to go (boof) where I think people might be
in my rage.

MATT: Okay! So around the building where?

MARISHA: Around the building. Sorry, Vax. I don't
really know you're there, but around here and around

here, and I'm sure I see Vex shooting at things,
right? I'm going to try and go around.

MATT: So you have right here.

MARISHA: Here, around, and that way.

MATT: All right. Okay, because you didn't see Vax
outside.

MARISHA: No. He's getting hit.

MATT: You saw Vax run upstairs.

MARISHA: I just know there were people shooting through
this window and through this window, so I'm doing

a perimeter around.

MATT: How many squares is it? Ten,
right?

MARISHA: Ten ten-by-tens.

MATT: These two here get caught in it, as well as
Vax and that guy there.

LAURA: What about the magician guy?

MATT: If she's doing a perimeter? No.

LAURA: Did you know that I was shooting at somebody?

MATT: She doesn't see the magician. Doesn't know
where it is. "The Magician." The Prestige!

LIAM: I have evasion.

MATT: Which means it's either half or nothing.

LIAM: Right. At advantage because of the boots.
What do I have to match?

MATT: Her DC, which is 21, right?

MARISHA: 21.

MATT: Dexterity saving throw.

LIAM: Oh yeah, way higher than that. We're good.

MATT: Yeah, you take no damage. You duck out of
the Fire Storm just in time for it to

(raging fire).

MARISHA: I need two more d10s.

LIAM: Yeah, dexterity save, man. Area effect.

TALIESIN: Smoky d10 and spiky d10. And you get
rerolls!

MARISHA: I reroll ones. None of these are ones,
unfortunately. (counting)

DARIN: I just noticed the little lanterns glowing.
Bravo!

MATT: Oh! Bravo to Dwarven Forge, man.

SAM: Well, it's your house.

MATT: True. Good torches you have in there.

TRAVIS: Way to be energy-conscious with those
LEDs!

MARISHA: 39 fire damage.

MATT: 39 damage. This guy incinerates. He screams
and burns. He manages to dodge partway out, but

even the partial damage burns him and he
(screams). You see him run off into the forest ten

or so steps, on fire, like a stun man shot in a
movie before he (impact) on the ground and

smolders there in the distance. Those guys take
it. What was the amount again?

MARISHA: 39, and they're on fire.

TALIESIN: It's hard to stealth when you're on
fire.

MATT: They're both on fire.

MARISHA: So that was my action. I'm going to do
that out of my staff as I slam it down. I'm going

to look at Sprigg and say: gods damn it, Sprigg!
And I'm going to use that as my Healing Word, and

I'm going to cast Healing Word at second level. Which
is 2d4. 11 points to you. And then I'm going to

use my free action that I have to turn into a fire
elemental.

MATT: Your free action?

MARISHA: Changing into something's not a bonus,
it's a free action to change into my beast shape.

Circle of the Moon, bitch!

SAM: Did you just call your fiancé--

TRAVIS: -- a bitch?

MARISHA: No! Combat wild shape.

MATT: Combat Wild Shape makes it a bonus action, as
opposed to an action. That's the difference.

LIAM: I would like to retract my "bitch," please.

MARISHA: All right, so I'm just Keyleth.

MATT: Does that end your turn? All right, so as
Keyleth's turn ends, it comes to Pike's. The

entire exterior perimeter of this part of the
house is on fire. Flames are now starting to

catch. It is dry wood; the entire building is made
from wood of the forest, so your home is now in

flames.

MARISHA: Wait, hang on. No, I'm doing the
perimeter. I did think about this, which is why I

didn't attack the guy in the house.

TRAVIS: If you napalm the forest, the trees will
probably catch fire.

LIAM: It's a quick jump, though.

MATT: In order to do the perimeter, it's not a
blazing inferno, but it's starting to catch.

Flames are starting to lick up the sides.

LIAM: End it quick, we can save it.

MATT: Fire Storm's a dangerous spell.

LAURA: Let's try to save those books before they
all burn.

SAM: He's an old guy. We were either going to kill
him or burn his house down.

MATT: It's Vox Machina's MO, man!

SAM: It was always going to end this way.

TALIESIN: Things you own end up owning you.

DARIN: So glad I wore a jacket.

MATT: Pike is going to rush forward and is also
going to attempt to Healing Word you at level two.

It's a heal fountain on you. That is six plus
five. That's 11 hit points you heal.

SAM: As soon as she does that, I grab him and we
Dimension Door out the house.

MATT: Where do you Dimension Door?

SAM: To the only place I know: front of the house.
Outside the front door. Not right outside, but

towards the edge of the map there.

MATT: Over here?

SAM: Yeah, anywhere around there, on approach to
the house.

TRAVIS: Or do you want to be more over yonder?

SAM: Where's the front door to the house?

MARISHA: Right there.

SAM: So I'd be 20 feet, the way we approached to
the house. So where you got it, if that's the way

we approached.

MATT: You guys approached this direction. So
you're there. Make a perception check, Scanlan.

SAM: Okay. Ten.

MATT: Okay. You don't see the two hidden fellows
over here. You see something large and hulking

moving through the forest this direction, at a quick
glance.

SAM: Is it naked?

MATT: No.

TALIESIN: Then we're going to be okay.

MATT: You guys have pulled out of that house.
You're still on the ground and all of a sudden

your body physically shifts, and you're looking up at
the trees. You glance around and you can see the

back of your house, you can hear the frantic fray
going on. You see the necromancer who's currently

covered in brambles and held in place. You see a
couple of guys on fire, on the side screaming on

the side of the house, and your house starting to
catch fire. That's okay. Pike, on her turn, is

going to--

MARISHA: Keyleth has anger issues. It's fine.

MATT: Because it's a single target...

SAM: It's the "This is fine" meme, except it's
just Keyleth.

MATT: She's going to cast a level five Guiding Bolt
because that's what Pike does. So ranged spell

attack against that guy. 11 plus-- yeah, that
hits. That's a 21. So that is 8d6 radiant damage.

Nice. 19.

LAURA: Is she doing it to the magician?

MATT: No, this guy right there, in the room.

SAM: He's an illusionist, Laura.

TRAVIS: Is she doing it against Copperfield? Is
David Blaine with them?

MATT: So after she heals Sprigg, and Sprigg
vanishes, she grabs her holy symbol and goes,

"Chill out!" and shoots this giant flashing beam
of divine energy that slams into it. You watch as

a lot of its flesh burns away from the impact.
It's still standing, but it's a shining beacon.

The next attack against it has advantage. And then
Pike's going to back up with you, Vex, towards the

back where the bookcase is and goes, "You smell
something?" You now hear, simultaneously,

(slow thudding) and watch as the side wall and the back
wall explode inward, as splinters of wood and

stone (crashing) comes from this wall here--

LAURA: Oh no, all of his stuff!

MARISHA: So I didn't destroy your house first.

LIAM: Flames! Flames, less of a thing.

TALIESIN: On the side of the house.

LIAM: Flames on the side of the house!

MATT: Two familiar hulking entities come
barrelling into the chamber. Remember those giant

things you saw walking through the Shadowfell that
you barely avoided with the mask?

MARISHA: The censer?

MATT: Who has the censer? Not on you right now.
You don't carry a fucking giant smoking censer

with you!

LAURA: Oh, really? I didn't realize it was that
big.

TALIESIN: I think at that point, I think we put it
in the Bag of Holding.

SAM: But you did make a bunch of those herbs.

MARISHA: I do have the herbs.

SAM: And there's a shit-ton of shit on fire right
now.

MATT: They burst through. (roaring) This big yell
echoes through their metal masks. It sounds like

this horrible-- imagine a giant vocal scream that's
peaking on the audio level against a tinny

metallic speaker.

LIAM: (Bane voice) Your punishment will be more
severe!

MATT: Essentially. This one's going to go after
Keyleth. This one's going to make two swipes at

Trinket because Trinket's right there. As they
barrel through, part of the roof breaks. Guys up

top, Percy and Grog, you feel the ground buckle a
little bit below you and you drop about two or

three inches as the building is starting to lose
its physical frame.

TALIESIN: Oh god, Grog, what did Keyleth do?

TRAVIS: Thanks, Keyleth. You beat me by one
second!

TALIESIN: I'm well aware. It was totally worth
it.

MARISHA: #thanksKeyleth.

MATT: That's one's going to go ahead and do two
slam attacks against Keyleth.

MARISHA: Yeah, I've earned it. Come on!

MATT: That's 23 to hit.

MARISHA: Yeah, that hits.

MATT: And that's a 29 to hit.

MARISHA: Yeah.

MATT: That's 20 points of bludgeoning damage from
the first hit. And the second one is 30 points of

bludgeoning damage. (two slams) And it slams you.
The second fist actually pins you up against the

wall there, and you feel ribs crack inside your
chest and now-- they're both down low in this

hulking mass. They're almost wider than they are
any other dimension with how they're crouched down

and the thickness of their body. They're taking up
almost the entirety of the room right now.

MARISHA: You said 30 points, right?

MATT: Yes, for the second one.

MARISHA: So I'm at 83 points.

MATT: Correct. The other one's going to slam twice
into Trinket. Giant fists. That's going to be a

28.

LAURA: 28 hits.

MATT: And a 22.

LAURA: 22 hits.

MATT: That is five plus six. 11 points of
bludgeoning damage to Trinket.

LAURA: Halved.

MATT: Halved, correct. And 22 points of
bludgeoning damage, halved.

LAURA: Okay, so 11 plus six is 27 points.

MATT: That ends their go. We're at the top of the
round. Percy, you're upstairs.

TALIESIN: Okay, this all happened. That's awkward.
That's okay, I know where I am. I'm going to run

out onto the balcony really quick.

MARISHA: There's room over here.

TRAVIS: That guy's still up there with us, right?

TALIESIN: Yeah. I figure you're going to handle
him. Grog, take care of these two. What do I see

outside on the balcony?

MATT: You see, currently down below-- make a
perception check. Actually, you wouldn't even see

them from your perspective.

TALIESIN: I just rolled a natural 20.

MATT: Right, it's blocking your vision from this
side. You do see Scanlan, you see Sprigg who is

currently conscious, you see this necromancer who
is currently held with brambles, and you see two

streaking flames and hear screams on this side of the
building.

TALIESIN: Weird question, really quickly. Where is
that giant log trap?

MATT: Right there.

TALIESIN: How much swing does it have? Is it
locked all the way over here, or is it hung back

there?

MATT: It looks more like a drop.

TALIESIN: Oh, so it's a drop on the door. Good to
know. In the meantime, I'm going to run on the

exterior of the wall, like right over here, if
that makes sense. That's going to be my movement.

I'm going to take some fun, happy pot shots at
these bastards.

LAURA: At the necromancer?

TALIESIN: At the necromancer! Let's start with
that bound necromancer. He's fun.

LIAM: With the Vecna eye.

TALIESIN: With the Vecna eye. He's bound, so I
have advantage to hit him?

MATT: Yes, you do.

TALIESIN: All right, I'm going to use my Animus
gun so I still have a hand open, and I'm also

going to burn a point of grit so that I can get
him to drop his staff. Here we go with advantage.

Oh darn, it was so close. 28.

MATT: That hits.

TALIESIN: That's-- ooh! Fancy. 18 points of
damage, four points of psychic damage, and he has

to make a strength saving throw or drops his
items.

MATT: Oh, don't worry, he drops the staff, because
there's not much left of his head. When you hit

the arm, the staff's clutching, but you slam it
and it hits the side of the head and causes the

right side of the face to explode against the
tree, the brambles still clutching as it falls

limp to the ground, and they crush the body into a
small rock of flesh.

TALIESIN: That'll do.

MARISHA: You get a grit point back, right?

LAURA: You get a grit point back, you get a grit
point back!

MATT: You just barely see them; they have
three-quarters cover. But you have sharpshooter.

TALIESIN: Three-quarters cover, what does that
mean in this crazy world? I'm going to burn a grit

for advantage and shoot one of them.

MATT: The one right furthest on the side there?

TALIESIN: Yeah. I'll start there. Let's give it a
shot. I love advantage; it's so wonderful. 32. I

really should have done extra damage. So that's
1d10 plus six. That hits, obviously. 32 to hit?

MATT: Yeah, that hits. Goodbye, necromancer.

TALIESIN: 17 points of damage plus two points of
psychic damage.

MATT: How much was that, sorry?

TALIESIN: 17 points of damage plus two points of
psychic damage.

MATT: Okay. All right, he's still standing.
(bullet impact, yelps) He starts looking up to see

where the shot came from as the giant bullet wound
through the torso and out the back of the shoulder

was clean through. You hear him breathing, gasping
for breath. (gasping)

TALIESIN: I'm going to take another shot at him.
I'm going to make this a sharpshooter shot, and

again with advantage because that's fun. Here we
go. Damn! Almost a crit. That's 29. That hits.

MATT: That hits, yeah. Go ahead and roll damage.

TALIESIN: 14 points of damage-- I'm sorry, 24
points of damage plus two points of psychic

damage.

MATT: He falls to the ground, face first. The
second shot hits him in the chest. He just goes

down, crumples. His body begins to smolder.

TALIESIN: I use my bonus action to reload and
stare at the nice person below me.

MATT: That ends Percival's turn. Grog, you're up.
You hear, downstairs, the (heavy thudding).

There's the guy in front of you who's like, (angry
breathing). What are you going to do?

TRAVIS: Can I smash my Titanstone Knuckles
together and cast Enlarge on myself?

MATT: You can! And your head goes into the roof!
(thudding)

MARISHA: We're real sorry about your house.

DARIN: It wasn't a house. It was a prison.

LAURA: Well, then you're welcome.

TRAVIS: I'm hoping the floor gives.

MATT: The floor gives out. As your head (crashing)
into the ceiling (creaking, crashing) it falls out

from under you. You come falling down on top of
this guy. Rubble falls around. Keyleth, I need you

to make a dexterity saving throw. I need Trinket
to make a dexterity saving throw. The other shadow

ghast fails.

MARISHA: Nine.

LAURA: 14.

MATT: Trinket, you, and the shadow ghast all take
22 points of bludgeoning damage as the roof caves

in over on top. Large part of the upper floor now
falls and this guy stumbles and is now prone

there. He also takes damage. You take 22
points of bludgeoning damage from falling through

the wreckage. Trinket's is halved, yes.

MARISHA: Ugh, debris, ugh!

MATT: That kills him. The shadow ghast right
here.

TRAVIS: Because he had barely any left.

MATT: Yeah. He's like, "Huh?" (crashing) Gets
rained on with rubble, broken, splintered wood and

stone.

TRAVIS: The guy in Manners, he fell too, right?

MATT: His part of the ceiling didn't fully
collapse. He's just out of the way. He's dangling

off the edge right now, as he shakes, it's making
its way towards the hole. The whole ceiling didn't

collapse, just the area right below.

TRAVIS: Beautiful. Can I take Tweedledee to my
right and make two reckless attacks against him?

They're not giants, right?

MATT: No, they're not giants. They're considered
undead.

TRAVIS: They're considered undead. 30 to hit. And
the second one.

MATT: Big targets.

TRAVIS: 29.

MATT: Hits.

TRAVIS: So ten. 24 points. Plus the Enlarge-- 25.

MATT: 25 with the first hit. (whack)

TRAVIS: 22 with the second one.

MATT: 22 damage on the second hit. (whacks) You're
hitting him. Laying on its back, it has these

metal spikes jamming out of its flesh. You can see
portions of other creatures that it had slain that

have been jammed on these spikes and rotted away
on its armor. So as you're hitting it, you're

knocking away parts of partially decomposed
creatures that previously fell in battle to one of

these creatures. As you're slamming into it, you
can see it's just rippling, partially decayed

muscle that seems to be unnaturally strengthened
by whatever necrotic energy keeps it stitched

together and alive. It's a thick sack of hit
points.

TRAVIS: Wow. Cool. Good to know.

MATT: Is that your turn; are you doing anything
else?

TRAVIS: That's interesting. I'm going to go into a
frenzied rage as my bonus action.

MATT: Okay, and that's the end of your turn? Okay.
End of Grog's turn. Vax, you're up. You heard all

this go on and now the whole building is starting
to catch fire.

LIAM: I'm going to bolt to that window.

MATT: Right there?

LIAM: No, other way. So I have a view of Keyleth,
the creature, and Grog. I'm going to throw

Whisper-- I've got sharpshooter-- at that thing,
and bamf there.

MATT: I will say, at proximity to the flames that
are starting to catch, you do take three

points of fire damage.

LIAM: Fine.

MATT: You threw the dagger at the big guy?

LIAM: Whisper goes to the window at that guy
there.

MATT: Go ahead and roll an attack.

LIAM: And it's flanking, right? Because of where
Grog is, or Keyleth?

MATT: It's not flanking, but you get to add
sneak attack modifier.

LIAM: Okay. Yeah, that's fine. That's 32.

MATT: Yeah, that hits. So you appear next to it.

LIAM: Three plus psychic damage is four plus this
junk. (counting) 33, doubled to 66 plus psychic

damage is 74. Bamf there.

MATT: And you appear next to it. As the dagger
sinks into its torso, you watch as its chest

muscles and the iron cage-like armor around it
seems to swallow the dagger. As it goes inside,

you watch as some of the muscles all of a sudden
(squelch) fall off of its body, like whatever

energy's holding it together is untethered and
this weird, fleshy, stitched-together creature is

starting to fall apart. It's looking pretty hurt.

LIAM: Okay, so here's what I wanted to do. So
movement-- and I have action-action, action,

action-- action-action, action, bonus action.

TRAVIS, LAURA, and MARISHA: (repeating) Action,
action--

LIAM: Guys, it's the rules in the book! You can
bust my balls all you want--

MATT: Well, that's your first attack, so you have
your second attack.

LIAM: So action-action for my regular attack,
right?

MATT: Attack-attack!

LIAM: It's just semantics. Attack-attack, hasted
action, bonus action. So that was the first of my

attack-attacks. And here's the second one.

MATT: Okay.

LIAM: 30.

MATT: Well, we have dagger, dagger, dagger. Now we
have attack, attack, attack, attack, attack,

attack as our next t-shirt.

(laughter)

LIAM: I'm dumping a level two Smite into this,
against an undead. That's seven, 10, 11. Ooh, it's

cocked. 17 for that hit.

MATT: 17 with the additional--?

LIAM: With attack-attack.

MATT: Right. Well, but you said you dumped Divine
Smite into that?

LIAM: Into that one.

MATT: You did the additional damage for it being
undead? Okay, so that was how much total?

LIAM: Whatever I just said. It was like 16.

TRAVIS: 17.

MATT: 17. 17 will do it, actually. So as you rush
in with the second dagger, you jam up into the

same space where it's falling apart, and you hear
this dull (shockwave sound) on the inside as the

divine energy radiates from the strike and its
body (slurping) sloughs off of the bones and

around your arm. It slowly falls around your arm
like old gelatin and (slurping) slips into the

ground, covering the floor around you.

LIAM: Okay, I'm going to do the old crouch. Not
that she needs it, but crouch in front of Keyleth.

And then I have my hasted action for an attack and
bonus action for an attack into the other one.

29, and the second one is higher than 29. I'm
going to dump Smite into it. Three-- you're making

me mess up the math, Laura!

LAURA: Psychic damage.

LIAM: (laughing) I can't keep track of the math!

MATT: (singing) Epic-level DND!

LIAM: 25 on that towards that guy, with Smite
added. And then the last dagger, with Smite, at

level one, is two plus is 10, 14, 19.

MATT: 19, okay.

LIAM: I dumped a ton of Smite into that.

MATT: You didn't add your modifier to the third
strike, right?

LIAM: I don't know, so why don't you just minus
six? 19, so we'll call it 13. Some people might

have been catcalling me while I was trying to do
math.

MATT: That's okay. No worries. You hit with the
two final strikes. They blast into it. You watch

as some of the armor gets thrown off its body. It
takes a little hit, but the other creature looks

like it's largely all right. That finishes Vax's
turn.

LIAM: Let me enjoy my last two months of life!

MATT: Shadow ghast. What's the DC on the sphere
again?

SAM: 20.

MATT: Is it 20? 19. He can't escape from this
freaking sphere. The shadow ghast is up on the

second floor going (growling). Manners, man. All
right. Scanlan and Sprigg, what do you guys want

to do?

DARIN: I have a question. The gentleman who had an
arrow in his throat: he's gone, right? He's been

blown apart.

MATT: Yeah. Actually, make a perception check.

DARIN: Okay. That's a d20, isn't it?

MATT: Yep, d20 and then add your perception
modifier.

DARIN: Got it. That's a 17.

MATT: A 17, okay. You glance over and you see two
guys who are hiding amongst the bushes on the side

there.

DARIN: Now, it's too far away to cast a spell.

MATT: No, depending on the spell's range,
depending on what you want to do.

DARIN: Tasha's Hideous Laughter.

MATT: That we can do.

MARISHA: That's such a good spell.

MATT: It's a fun one. So bringing up Tasha's here,
looking at the range. There we go. It's a 30-feet

range, so you want to get up and get a little
closer, probably.

DARIN: I will do that, if I could.

MATT: All right, so that's half your movement, and
you can move two more spaces. You can hit one guy.

So one guy of these two you can select.

DARIN: The first one.

MATT: That one there? All righty.

DARIN: Yes. I think his name is Dave? Roll a
perception?

MATT: Make a saving throw, a wisdom save. That is
a ten! Your spell DC is a 17. You watch as the

guy there who has his crossbow out and sees you
get up, spins around, has this giant, heavy

crossbow, the bolt very recognizable because you
still have three of them in your body. Aims it

towards you and then suddenly (maniacal laughter)
and drops the crossbow to the ground and doubles

over laughing, falling to the ground and is now
kicking and laughing like a hyena right now,

unable to do anything.

DARIN: Knock knock!

MATT: (maniacal laughter)

DARIN: Right!

(laughter)

MATT: All right, is that your turn?

DARIN: Yes, it is.

MATT: All right.

SAM: There's another guy over there? Have I seen
him yet?

MATT: You haven't, actually. You do see this guy's
on fire right now, who is still around.

SAM: Oh, I see somebody.

MATT: Yeah, and you can see that hulking figure
come running through, and you hear the (explosion)

through the back of the building.

SAM: For the beginning of the round, I'll say,
guys, I think large giants are coming. Be aware.

LAURA and TRAVIS: (screaming)

SAM: What? I can't hear you! Speak clearly!

LIAM: Threepio! Where could he be?!

SAM: Okay. Shit. I'll approach the guy I can see
burning, on fire. That's where the front door is,

right? Is he in front of the front door?

MATT: The log is right up in this area.

SAM: Oh yeah. That. So I'll take out my Wand of
Magic Missiles, and I will just take down

the rope.

MATT: Okay. You watch as three missiles fire out
of the wand and slam into the bits of rope up top.

As they explode, it's enough of an impact to cause
it, as opposed to fall straight down, just spin

and fall. I'm going to go ahead and roll a dice to
see which direction it's going to land from its

front point. So we'll say inward would be one,
two, three, four, five, six. That's a six. So it

plummets down, hits the ceiling, scrapes off and
slams down onto him. He's going to try and make a

dexterity saving throw. That is a seven plus four,
nope. That's an 11. Go ahead and roll 4d8 please.

LAURA: 4d8?

DARIN: Is this Dr. Comedy, who's writhing in
laughter?

MATT: I think so. Oh. No, sorry, he's over here.
This guy's on fire from her earlier.

SAM: Oh, that's a five. 16.

MATT: 16 points of damage to him.

SAM: That's not a lot.

LAURA: You only got 16 on 4d8?

MATT: It's not enough to kill him, but it slams on
him and then falls over. You see as both of his

flaming hands on the ground going, (groans). He's
currently restrained underneath it right there,

and on fire.

DARIN: Knock knock.

(laughter)

MATT: All right, you going to stay where you are?

SAM: No. I'm going to move towards any entrance or
window I see. I can't really see over there.

MATT: There's a window here, window here. This one
has flames in front of it. This one's available.

SAM: I'll go towards that [no audio] other one.

MATT: Okay. Four, five. That's as far as you can
move there. You see the guy on the ground who's

laughing in front of you.

SAM: Yeah, no thanks to him. And for a bonus, I
guess I will inspire Darin De Paul, or rather,

Sprigg.

LIAM: Why not both?

SAM: I will sing to him, (singing) You had a bad
day, you gettin' knocked down. I sing you a song

just to turn it around! You say you don't know,
but please don't die. I'll sing you this song and

maybe you'll go for a ride. You had a bad day.
(speaking) I don't know how that song goes.

MATT: All righty, so you get an inspiration die.
You get a d12 that you can use on any sort of

skill. You don't have to use it right now, but
whenever you use a skill check or an ability check

you can add that to it if you want to. There you
go.

DARIN: Thank you. You know, I had a bad day.

SAM: (singing) You had a bad day.

(groaning and laughing)

MATT: All right, so now it's the assassin's turn.
Keyleth, how much fire damage does it do when

they're on fire? Is it d10?

MARISHA: (stuttering) Oh jeez. Fire Storm. Yeah,
no. d10.

MATT: Thought so. All right, he takes eight fire
damage.

TALIESIN: Yay! Under a log.

MATT: Under a log. He's going to try and break
free from restraint. Nope, that is a 14. He cannot

move that giant tree that's currently crushing him
on the ground. He tries to reach out for his

crossbow and aim it out towards Sprigg with one
hand because it's still loaded. But he has super

disadvantage on this strike.

SAM: Super disadvantage. Is that in the book?

MATT: It is now.

LAURA: That's in the new campaign guide. Super
disadvantage. Only when you're stuck under a tree

on fire.

MATT: Sure, I'll do all three. All right. Eight, 12,
12. I made him roll super disadvantage. What does

this remind me of? Like a terrible old sci-fi
movie where the bad guy's on the ground with the

gun trying to aim it at the hero with his final
shot and the hero just walks up and steps on the

gun. You (whoosh) sidestep the bolt as it fires.
Nothing on you.

DARIN: Of course.

MATT: The crossbow drops, (grunting).

DARIN: Knock knock.

MATT: (crying) On fire. All righty, that ends his
turn.

DARIN: (whispering) Comedy comes in threes.

MATT: This guy back here is going to go ahead and
since you're the one who has his friend writhing

on the ground, is going to go ahead and try to
shoot you with his crossbow. You do see him,

although he's unaware of that, so he thinks it's a
sneak attack shot. That is a 14.

TALIESIN: You got to get better cultists, man.

MATT: I know, seriously. They come in large
numbers, so yeah. This one just (impact sound)

hits the tree to your left. His aim's off.

TRAVIS: He's missing an eye. His depth perception
sucks.

MATT: Exactly. And he goes ahead and darts behind
this building there, vanishing.

SAM: Did I see the bolt or any indication that he
exists?

MATT: You do. He reveals himself when he fires. So
you watched him come out of the bushes and

(whoosh) fire and then duck around the side of the
building. The guy on the ground is going to try

and save against your spell. That is a 13 plus
zero. Nope. He's still laughing. He's just on the

ground, (laughing). Tears in his eyes now.

TALIESIN: I love that spell.

MATT: That's the end of the assassins' turn.
Necro's dead. Vex, you're up.

LAURA: I'm going to Hunter's Mark the big undead
monster in the room. And then I'm going to shoot

him! With the Blazing Bowstring!

TALIESIN: Be careful. You might catch the building
on fire.

LAURA: Oh, but I'm going to use the sharpshooter
thing.

MATT: Take minus five and do additional damage?
Okay.

LAURA: Which I don't know if I should have done
that on this particular one. It was 17 to hit.

MATT: 17 is exactly his armor class.

LIAM: Yas, Pelor queen!

(laughter)

LAURA: Five plus eight is 13. Plus sneak attack,
because he's got Trinket next to him. 13, 18, 23,

sorry! 23 and then lightning damage. 24. 25, 26.
And then Blazing Bowstring. God dang! 27.

MATT: Okay, 27. So that's your first strike.
(arrow shot) First one just (impact sound) hits in

the side and you see the bolt of energy arc out
and the flames burn up the arrow. By the way, the

wall behind you is starting to get really warm.

LAURA: I'm going to move forward. I'm going to
actually move toward the corner where Keyleth is.

MATT: There's a guy on the ground there.

LAURA: Oh, there is?

MATT: Yeah. So you've got to step over him.

LAURA: I'm going to step on him.

MATT: As you move past, he does get a swing with
his shortsword at you. Oh, wow. That's a 25.

LAURA: Oh, wow. He hits me. Probably because I
stepped on him.

MATT: I think so. So you take nine points of
slashing damage. Just like, (pain sound) as you're

walking past.

LAURA: (pain sound) Fuck. Ah, shit. Okay, I'm
going to hit the big hulking thing again.

MATT: I realized he had disadvantage, but I rolled
another 18, so it's fine.

LAURA: Oh, okay, well, yeah. I'm going to do the
same thing with the big hulking guy.

MATT: Okay.

LAURA: 25 to hit.

MATT: 25 hits.

LAURA: Oh, I didn't add plus ten to the previous
one!

MATT: Because of the sharpshooter, all right. 39
last time. So go ahead and take a swing at it.

LAURA: Thanks! 14.

MATT: You're up next, Keyleth.

LAURA: 14 plus six is 20.

SAM: Figure out how you're going to ruin Darin's
life more.

MARISHA: I know. That's my one goal in life. I'm a
big old homewrecker.

LAURA: I think that's just 32 because I don't get
sneak attack again.

MATT: All right. So the second arrow slams into
him. It's still holding firm. It's taking the hits

and you see parts of its body are starting to
spill black liquid out of the wounds and (growls)

its red eyes still beaming out from behind the
metal mask in front of its face. Its arm swings

back and tears some of the ceiling beams out with
it. It's looking pretty rickety right now. So that

ends your turn?

LAURA: I guess so.

MARISHA: Is it in a fireproof safe? No? Okay!

MATT: Keyleth, you're up.

MARISHA: All right. So I have this big asshole in
front of me, yeah? The house is catching on fire,

right? Yeah. Nope, she'd still be really upset and
really angry. So continuing what I was saying

before, she's gonna rage a little bit more and go
into her fire elemental self.

MATT: Okay.

MARISHA: Unable to contain her frustration--

TALIESIN: This is a good plan.

MATT: You technically entered the space of the guy
who's on the ground, becoming a fire elemental,

which lights him on fire. (screams)

MARISHA: Even more upset. I'm gonna move right in
the space of this guy.

MATT: (whoosh) So occupying his space from this
side, we'll say. She can catch you guys on fire.

LAURA: But she doesn't have to.

MATT: I'll double-check that real fast.

MARISHA: I mean, I'm magical.

TALIESIN: Sparkle fire.

MARISHA: I sparkle fire.

LIAM: Also, we can take it.

TALIESIN: Yeah, it's fire.

MATT: You know what? It can move through a space
as narrow as one inch wide, so I'll say yes, you

can maneuver through. Only if you want to, can you
set things on fire.

MARISHA: I'm going to go into this guy's space,
engulf in flames, and do my multi-attack, two slam

touch attacks.

MATT: Go for it. He is now in flames.

MARISHA: That's cocked. Ooh, that's good, that's
good. 21.

MATT: 21, yeah.

MARISHA: And 16.

MATT: 16 just misses.

MARISHA: Fucking balls. Okay. No, plus six to 11.
That's 17.

MATT: That hits. That's what you needed.

MARISHA: So both of those hit. 2d6 plus three.
First one is eight. Plus ten. 18 fire damage.

MATT: He's looking pretty hurt. As you slam him
with both of your flaming hands and claw across

his body, where the flame hits, you see it
(hissing) singes through the flesh and drags

charred remains of where the muscle once was where you
dragged your claws through. The body's starting to

shake as it's holding its form together.

MARISHA: That's all I've got, I think. That's it.

SAM: No. You have action, action, action, action,
action.

(laughter)

MARISHA and TALIESIN: Bonus action.

LAURA: Hasted action.

LIAM: Send all your complaints to Mike Mearls and
Chris Perkins at Wizards of the Coast.

SAM: Matt, not to be a dick, but has anyone
stepped on the trap on the floor?

MATT: Actually, you know what, Vax would have
avoided it. Because Vax is in the spot where it

was, but Vax knew where it was, so Vax would have
probably gone over it.

SAM: So cool. You're doing the little splits over
it.

LIAM: Splitsing. Van Damme-ing it.

MATT: Wait, you wouldn't have, because when you
threw the dagger--

LIAM: Let's do it.

MATT: It's not a big deal. Thank you for pointing
that out.

SAM: But your boots are gone.

LIAM: She stole them again? How did you do it?

MATT: You guys glance upward as you hear a (deep
swoosh) and up above you in the hole in the

ceiling where there once was nothing but air, you
see hovering above you a giant beholder just

appear. (guttural moan) All of its eyestalks
curling around it.

MARISHA: What do you mean, it's not a big deal?
That's the part that I'm confused about!

MATT: Thank you for that. So that finishes your
turn, Keyleth. Pike's turn. Pike sees this--

LIAM: If we're retconning that in, I'm retconning
(blows raspberry) when I see it.

DARIN: Don't get Gargamel angry.

MARISHA: Does that mean that Keyleth would have
seen the beholder beforehand? You know what, don't

worry about it.

MATT: No. You were so angry-- it's in the hole
above. You don't quite see where that hole was at

the moment, you backed away.

MARISHA: Man, so much blind rage.

MATT: So much blind rage. Look guys, that's what
we're doing. So anyway, Pike does actually make an

insight check, and says, "It's not real. Don't
worry about it!"

LAURA: Thanks, Pike.

MATT: Fixed.

(laughter)

LAURA: It's not a big deal, you guys.

MATT: Pike, however, is going to go ahead and make
another Guiding Bolt at the large guy there.

That's going to be a 20. That hits. That's going
to be 4d6. 14 points of radiant damage, which will

do it. So you watch as Pike blasts it in the face
with the Guiding Bolt. As it hits, the mask gets

thrown off, and where the head was beneath it, you
see this empty black void with two red burning

coals for eyes that blink out as soon as the mask
is removed, and the whole body crumples to the

ground and turns into a horrible, thick,
black-purple ichor.

LAURA: I'm going to have nightmares about that.

SAM: For sure.

MATT: The beholder is still upstairs, staying in
place going (hoarse screaming).

(laughter)

MATT: Yeah, it's that kind of thing.

TALIESIN: Brilliant.

MATT: That ends Pike's turn. They're both dead.
That brings us back. Percival, it's your turn.

There's the one guy on the ground there. One's
laughing. We'll say for the purposes of this, for

the time, most everything there is not much of a
threat at this point. So systematically, the guy

on the ground who's hidden by the tree, you can
just--

TALIESIN: I'm ignoring him. I'm not even gonna
deal. I'm just hopping in the window. I'm going to

grab my little guy there. I'm going to bring him
out to the balcony, and I'm going to

unceremoniously toss him out of the house.

SAM: Defenestrated!

MATT: You throw him (thud). He lands.

TALIESIN: And then I'm going to jump and I'm going
to crawl down the rest of my way and join him

outside the house. And try and jump around the
fire, dragging him away from the fire.

MATT: Make an athletics check. Sorry, acrobatics
check.

TALIESIN: Acrobatics? Bless you for an acrobatics
check. I'm rerolling that.

MATT: No, it's not a saving throw. You can't do
that.

TALIESIN: It's not a saving throw. Oh well, that's
fine. That's a 16.

MATT: I'll say for the purposes of this--

TALIESIN: I had the Spider Climb boots.

MATT: Right, I know. But Spider Climb boots only
helps you if you keep on the surface. So as you

leap, you manage to land on your feet, but the
flames do catch you a bit, so you take six points

of fire damage as you start to burn. For the
purposes of time on this one, the guy who's

currently under the log just burns to death there
under the log. Pinned, he's trying to reach for

his crossbow, but he's only fired the one bolt
that was loaded in it. The guy on the ground is

still laughing as you approach him.

DARIN: Are there any rocks about?

MATT: Yeah, there's quite a few heavier rocks on
the ground.

DARIN: Well, I look at him, and I say, "It was a
prison, but it was my prison." And I use the

Telekinesis ring to lift a rock and drop it on his
head.

MATT: (splat) A horrible sickening crack sound. It
slams into the head. You lift it up. The laughing

has stopped, but he's still moving and you can see
the face is broken. The nose is smashed to the

side and it's just blood. He's starting to try and
get back up.

DARIN: Well, tell them that Ethred Brokenbranch
sends his regards.

MATT: Do you let him get up?

DARIN: Yes.

MATT: He gets up. (grunting)

SAM: I'll Lightning Bolt him as he runs away.

MATT: Okay, we'll say for the purposes of this, he
runs off in the distance (footsteps, yelp) and

falls to the ground, no longer moving.

TRAVIS: Can I kill the guy on the floor? Can he be
mine, please? Can I please smash him? The guy

that's lying on the floor in the house, please?

TALIESIN: Just sit on him.

TRAVIS: I haven't Gallaghered anybody in a while.

MATT: He's on the ground on fire now, going
(frantic gasps) patting out the fire.

LAURA: Oh, Grog, put him out!

MATT: He spends his action putting the fire out
now, and is like, (frantic gasps).

MARISHA: Keyleth takes a few steps back and
motions as a fire elemental...

TRAVIS: I skip on in and (gibberish yell).

MATT: He's like, (scream, impact). Just smashed on
the ground. Red watermelon.

LAURA: Fire's out, I'm assuming.

MARISHA: I drop my fire form, turn, see my anger,
destruction, get immediately guilty, and then do a

Tidal Wave to quell the flames.

MATT: The building is standing, mostly. The whole
front of it is blackened. The flames are gone.

Most of the interior is destroyed. You have two
giant holes in the back. Most of the upper ceiling

is ruined. The house is in shambles.

LAURA: What about the books?

MATT: A lot of them have been destroyed. Some of
the ones on the back wall have been burned. Some

of them have been burned by people in flames or
made of flame or general black ichor that spilled

out. The house is pretty wrecked.

LAURA: Can I go over to them and see if I can find
some books I think Percy would like?

MATT: Make an investigation check.

SAM: I'm running over to see that staff with an
eye in it.

LAURA: 27.

MATT: 27? Okay. You start glancing through. You
find some history books. You find some that relate

to local history. You see some books that relate
to various types of creatures; some animals and

beasts. Many that are encyclopedias of various
rivers and it's scattered everywhere. It's just

universal knowledge of pretty much anything he can
get his hands on. So some of it seems less useful

than others but you hand-pick a few out that you
think Percy would like.

TRAVIS: I don't mean to ask the obvious question,
but how did he know we were here?

TALIESIN: No, that's not an obvious question. I
have no idea.

MARISHA: They have multiple eyes.

LAURA: But how? Was he watching us? Is he scrying
on us?

TALIESIN: Must have.

LAURA: Oh, he's fucking scrying on us.

TALIESIN: Maybe he can feel you the way you can
feel him.

MATT: You get the sense that's not how this
works.

TALIESIN: Yeah. I don't know.

MARISHA: He had another eye, right?

SAM: Does that thing have an eye in it?

MATT: The staff you see? It's a carved eye. It's
made of wood and paint. It's ornamental. It's

mainly used as a focus, technically acts as a
plus-one staff.

TRAVIS: Sprigg. You said this place was a prison.
Did you mean that?

DARIN: Of course I meant it, boy. I've been there
for years.

TRAVIS: Could you leave? If you wanted.

DARIN: Of course I can. The prison was more up
here than in there.

TRAVIS: Oh. Sorry about the prison, then.

DARIN: Why would you be sorry? I asked you for
power and redemption. Don't you feel you gave me

that? We lived, child. We all lived.

TRAVIS: Yep. Yes. That is indeed what I was hoping
for.

LAURA: I lean out the window. Hey, Sprigg!

DARIN: Hello!

LAURA: Hi.

DARIN: Hi! How are you? I have some arrows in me
at the moment. You like arrows, don't you?

LAURA: I do. Come in here, I'll take them off your
hands.

DARIN: Okay. Question: if you do that, I'd
probably die again.

LAURA: I'll cure you, darling. Don't worry.

DARIN: She called me darling.

SAM: She's the cutest.

DARIN: (growls) I go in.

(laughter)

MATT: You walk into your destroyed abode, managing
to sidestep all the bear traps along the way.

You've walked the path many times and you know it
and I'm actually surprised none of you walked into

any of them. You knew where most of them were, but
none of you wandered out far enough into the open

to do that. They're all inside. You can see your
giant friend, of course, that you were talking to

as you walked in is twice the size he was earlier.
Previously where you had to hunch, you're now

having to almost belly crawl inside the house.

TRAVIS: But why? There's no separation between the
first and the second floor.

MATT: So if you stand in that space, you're fine.

TRAVIS: I'm in my space.

TALIESIN: I'm going to prop our idiot up in the
window so I can go in and keep an eye on him even

while I'm inside.

SAM: We have a prisoner?

TALIESIN: Yeah. I kept one.

LAURA: But he's one of those creepy ghouls that
probably doesn't speak.

MATT: And in the last minute or so has not been
able to break free but is still trying.

TALIESIN: He automatically fails until 24 hours
has elapsed.

MATT: After the first failed save?

TALIESIN: Any further attempts by the creature
automatically fail until 24 hours have elapsed. He

ain't going nowhere. It's mean, man.

LAURA: Me and Pike can heal him as I take the
arrows out.

MATT: Okay.

DARIN: At last you've seen the point of me, eh?

LAURA: (sarcastic laugh) Sprigg, anything valuable
in here that you want to save before we get you

out of here?

DARIN: Would like my organs! Oh, I would like to
save those.

LAURA: Yes.

DARIN: All right. No. There's nothing.

LAURA: No keys to Ioun? You know where she is?

DARIN: I might. I hope I do. I hope that I can
give you the answers you seek.

LAURA: I hope so, too. I cast Cure Wounds.

MATT: Pike casts Cure Wounds on you, as well, and
you heal 18.

DARIN: Do I know her name yet?

MATT: No, you do not.

DARIN: Cleric.

MATT: "Pike."

DARIN: Yes. Ethred. Or Sprigg. Whichever you like.
You can call me Sprigg. Can you help me pray to

Ioun? We need answers, and I think together we
might find them.

MATT: "I can certainly try. Do you have any items
of her iconography?"

DARIN: Do I?

MATT: Yeah, actually. You just reach over and find
one of the undamaged books.

LAURA: You healed 19, by the way.

DARIN: Thank you. Use this and you talk to her
where I can't. At least, not yet.

MATT: "I don't know if I can talk to her. I'm
not... But I can help you pray. I don't know if

"it'll be enough."

DARIN: Let's give it a go. There's a first time
for everything.

MATT: "Grog!"

TRAVIS: Yeah?

MATT: "Can you help me clear some of the floor,
please?"

TRAVIS: Not a problem! (grunting) Keyleth, catch!

MARISHA: Ah! Ow!

(laughter)

SAM: Floorboards! In her face!

TRAVIS: I thought you were on fire. I'm really
sorry.

MATT: Pike takes you over to the center of the
room and tells you. "Kneel with me. Now take this

"book and close your eyes and... apologize."

DARIN: For what?

MATT: "For everything you said about Ioun."

DARIN: (grumbles) All right. Well, look the other
way. Find some things that are of value.

TRAVIS: (whistles)

LAURA: Trinket sits down next to him and stares,
but I'll turn around.

DARIN: All right. I don't know if you're
listening, Ioun. It's been many years since I've

actually spoken to a god. I'd like to express my
deepest sorrow. You see, this home... didn't mean

as much to me as life. And I think these people
gave that to me. If you could give us... If you

could give me anything, any little hint, it would
be greatly appreciated and I would be a warrior in

your name forevermore. Please. Was that okay,
bear?

MATT: (huffs, licking) Licks the side of your
face.

DARIN: No, I'm not crying. You're crying, bear.

MATT: You sit there in silence with your eyes
closed, concentrating, holding the book before

you. Doesn't seem to be an answer. Just silence in
the darkness. Nothing. Everyone wants to

look at him-- still turned away?

MARISHA: Keyleth is definitely staring, but
pretending not to stare.

TALIESIN: I'm watching through the book.

LAURA: I'm leaning against the wall and staring at
him now.

MATT: Nothing. Nothing responds. As you have your
eyes closed, you hear this soft chuckle in the far

corner of the room. (cackles) "Really? Praying,
are you?"

DARIN: Yes. Can you help?

MATT: "Do I look the kind of guy that would
help?"

DARIN: Yes. I've known you for 19 years and I
think anybody's capable of anything, so why don't

you do something unexpected?

MATT: "I think you're right. It's no longer your
prison. It's not mine, either."

DARIN: That's true.

MATT: (flapping) Flies out the window.

TALIESIN: Oh shit.

DARIN: Kraghammer has another performer, and not a
very good one.

MATT: While you've been talking, by the way, and
the silence has been sad. Taking in the slight

emotional cut that not getting a response and
putting yourself on that limb means nothing. The

rest of you notice his torso is glowing bright
blue.

MARISHA: What? Is it really?

MATT: Yeah.

TRAVIS: Your stomach is glowing.

DARIN: Growing? What? I didn't eat anything. How
could my stomach be growing?

SAM: You're blue balling.

DARIN: What?

SAM: (whispering) Look down.

MATT: Pike looks at you and takes your hands and
opens your arms and motions to your chest. And the

book in your hand, you pull aside. You glance down
and you can see, there's this soft, bluish glow

that's emanating from your torso. Strange.

DARIN: You see? I didn't have to believe in Ioun.
I've found my religion. (chuckling) I'm Bluish!

(laughter)

TRAVIS: Aw, man!

DARIN: It didn't happen!

MATT: No, it did. That's canon.

DARIN: Wait a second, gentlemen. We'll restart for
just a second. It'll be fine. That little imp is

gone. So apparently, the key... is me.

LAURA: Is you? It is you.

SAM: Is in you or is you?

MARISHA: It is him. I've known it from the minute
that I laid eyes upon him. It's him.

TRAVIS: You did? You knew that the moment you saw
him?

MARISHA: No, I mean I had a hunch, I had a
feeling, deep down inside. I can't say it. If I

say it out loud and then if it's not true then I'm
an asshole.

LIAM: To be fair, we've only been here 12
minutes.

DARIN: Yes. House gone. The imp gone. Burny,
burny. Sad, sad. Pray, nothing happened. Now I'm

blue. That's a day for you, isn't it?

LAURA: So do you glow brighter the closer we get?
What's the deal here?

DARIN: I've never glowed before, child.

LAURA: I think it's glown.

DARIN: I've never glowned.

SAM: If you're the key, where's the lock? Where do
we take you?

DARIN: Well, I have been gone for many, many years,
so English may have changed. To be fair. To be

fair. I don't know. This is all new to me. I would
have thought it would be in one of those tomes.

TALIESIN: I'm going to pick up the book that he
was holding when he was praying. I'm going to just

try and read it.

MATT: Okay. You glance through it. The book is a
simple book, talking about the construction of

barricades and it looks like it was less 
the contents of the book and more just the image

of the book itself.

TALIESIN: I'm going to hand him the book again and
see if maybe there's focus to be found. Maybe this

is--

MATT: Okay. Make a perception check.

TALIESIN: Oh, lord. Ooh. Let's call that a 28.

MATT: When you took the book from him and handed
him another book, there was a very faint vibration

to his body as you pulled it from him and gave it
back to him. Which you haven't noticed, but

there's a physical vibration to him.

TALIESIN: If it's all-- with your permission, I'm
going to take his hands.

MATT: Okay. You feel them, and you feel this very
faint vibration to his body.

MARISHA: Percy.

TALIESIN: Yes.

MARISHA: Continue holding his hands. I pull out
the Tome of Quick Movement. Hold. Hold while I

find the paper. Hold.

LAURA: What if he's a tuning fork?

MARISHA: (shushes)

DARIN: That's very rude.

MARISHA: Where is it? I have a lot of things.

SAM: Divining.

DARIN: Oh yes. A divining rod. A rod to the
divine. Perhaps I am a divining rod.

LAURA: That's what I mean.

DARIN: Well said, child!

MARISHA: I pull out the fork we that we got to get
to Elysium. Is it similar?

MATT: When you pull out the fork and you hold it,
you recall that whenever you cast the spell Plane

Shift, there was a faint vibration to the specific
fork when you cast the spell.

SAM and TALIESIN: He's the tuning fork.

MARISHA: Oh no.

LAURA: What, no? This is good!

MARISHA: No, it is good. It's good, it's just...
Oh, Sprigg. No, it's fine. It's good. I don't

know. Everything in my life seems to have this
impermanence factor about it. So I hope he's not

something that can be used and discarded.

DARIN: I haven't been used in 37 years.

MARISHA: Sprigg.

DARIN: It's all right. At least I wasn't discarded
all that time.

MARISHA: I'm sure it's fine, I just--

DARIN: Look. Look at me. Just remember. Whatever
happens, remember me. That's all that's

important.

LIAM: That's good advice.

DARIN: That's all that we have. My friends are
gone and I don't even remember their names. I

don't remember Thetapax or Zephyr or... the guy
with the nose. He was my favorite.

(coughs and sniffles) Dusty in here, isn't it?

MARISHA: Oh, Sprigg.

DARIN: (sniffles and coughs) I remember. (softer)
I remember. See? It's all up here. So whatever

happens, keep me there. All right?

MARISHA: I guess I have to start getting used to
losing things.

DARIN: Yes. Or you can be hidden away in a prison
for 37 years. And that's not life, child. That's

hiding. Don't hide.

MARISHA: I've already built my own prison. They
don't know. I'm already there.

DARIN: You can break out. You can. It's hard. But
you can do it. Just take the first step. And then

you take another one. And then you take another
one.

MARISHA: And I grab his hand, and with that, I
cast Plane Shift to wherever he is leading to go.

MATT: All right. The rest of you gathered hands
for this?

LAURA: I guess so.

MATT: All right.

LAURA: Is there enough of us? Trinket, in the
necklace. Quick!

MATT: Trinket. (roars) Into the necklace.

DARIN: Wait. My invisible frog companion.

SAM: Is he real?

DARIN: Yes.

(laughter)

MATT: There is a sudden (sucking noise). A
shuddering of power energy around you as you feel

the vibration out of Sprigg's hand emanate
throughout the entire loop you guys have created

throughout your grasp. The familiar bright light
flashes before you, and you feel your body being

pulled through, at incredible speeds, through
darkness. There. The familiar racing of the divine

gate. (fast travel noise) As you pass through one
of its many portholes. Then, adrift. By now

you've-- the times you've passed through the gate,
you've passed through it a handful of times since

now. Adrift. Still holding hands, but the circle's
beginning to turn into an oval. You can all glance

around and see each other. Did you miss your
destination? Did you overshoot? What's next?

(whoosh) Another white flash. And suddenly you're
at a destination. You glance around and you're

standing within a small chamber. It resembles a
decadent bathhouse but with no water nor occupants.

It's empty. There are marble pillars stretching to
a domed ceiling about 60 feet above you all.

Silk-draped cloths drift and hang at odd angles
throughout the ceiling. Glowing points of magical

light latched within iron cages dangle at the
edges of these pillars about 15 feet up that give

the faint glow to an otherwise darkened room.
There are walls on each side of this chamber,

about 30 or 40 feet from you, and one arched
hallway across from you that leads to the only

other chamber you've seen.

MARISHA: I immediately turn and look to see if
Sprigg is still holding my hand.

MATT: Sprigg is still holding your hand.

LAURA: See? All that fucking shit was for nothing!
He's still alive!

SAM: Are you the same Sprigg as before?

DARIN: I hope so. Let's ask my invisible frog
companion. Well, I guess we'd better go find what we

are looking for.

MARISHA: Okay. Glad you're with us, Sprigg.

DARIN: It's good to be alive.

MARISHA: Yes, it is.

DARIN: Remember that.

MARISHA: Okay. I will.

MATT: As you guys walk forward towards the
singular hallway, you go through the domed arch,

and the hallway extends on. Featureless, smooth
grey marble. Like a solid punch that seemed to

have carved out whatever this material was. It
extends for 100 feet. 150 feet. And even though

there's very very faint light, and many of you can
see through darkvision, there is a darkness about

60 feet from you that seems to consume what you
can see. You can only see so far beyond that

radius, and you're not quite sure where that
oppressive shadow is coming from. The air is

chilled, but not uncomfortably so. You can hear
the distant sound of pinched winds whining through

small spaces. A familiar sound from the many times
you've spent underground, through caverns that had

some openings that allowed air to streak through
to the surface.

A few steps more and suddenly the hallway opens
into a second chamber. Into a library, if you could

even call it that. Bookshelves that stretch upward
for seemingly hundreds of feet, before flickering

lights fell from your vision. You do not see where
they stop. These columns of just tomes and cases

and scrolls and parchments stacking as in tablets
and any form of recorded information seem to just

be infinite in front of you, to two sides of this
road and upward. They seem to stretch in almost

every direction, the walls to the side of you. You
see columns ahead of you, and they tend to wind

and curl like a labyrinth made of bookcases, to no
end. It's very Escher-esque in how the further up

you look, they tend to curve and shift and bend
around each other.

Your eyes, now attuned to the realms beyond
mortality, you catch glimpses of shifting wind

gathering books and turning pages. Spirits of the
library, though sparse as they may be from this

entry point, organizing. Reading and learning from
whatever words are within. You begin to almost get

vertigo, trying to contemplate the strange and
overwhelming construction of such a wondrous

place. An endless sea of stories. Spectral
custodians keeping the tales of each other and the

history of Exandria past, present, and binding the
pages to tell what will eventually be the present,

currently the future.

TALIESIN: I've dreamed of this place.

LIAM: Inside Matt's brain?

TALIESIN: This is immortality. This is everything.
(sighs, chuckles) I may never leave. I glide over

to Vex and hold her close. This is stunning. My
god, I think they may have actually forgotten all

the idiot things I said yesterday.

LAURA: Feels pretty good, doesn't it?

TALIESIN: I think they've completely forgotten.
I'm sorry. May have panicked.

LAURA: I give him a kiss.

TALIESIN: I'll be right back. I'm going to run
towards one of those stacks, like a child.

MATT: Okay. You begin to take the first--

TALIESIN: I'm doing a title run. I want to figure
out the organizational system before I touch a

book.

MATT: There are no words on any of the spines.

TALIESIN: I pick one.

MATT: Okay. You pick.

TALIESIN: All right. I pick it up. I look around
to see if anybody has a problem. And I turn to the

title page.

MATT: It's ironic you do this, because the book is
in Celestial.

TALIESIN: I read Celestial.

MATT: You do. It's ironic that you did that.
(chuckles) Glancing through, it appears to be

describing a birth. Describing a tunnel, then a
light, then a cry.

TALIESIN: I skip to the end. Last page.

MATT: It seems to be an older man, surrounded by
his family--

TALIESIN: I've got it. I put it down. I pick up
another one.

MATT: You glance through this book.

TALIESIN: First page.

MATT: Begins very similarly to the last one.

TALIESIN: Last page.

MATT: This one actually ends with what appears to
be a horseback riding accident.

MARISHA: Oh god, they're souls.

TALIESIN: 115 pages in.

MATT: 115 pages in you get to a page that seems to
talk about the sorrow of a lost romance, and

trying to deal, coping at a young adult age.

TALIESIN: I put it back and I turn. They're made
of people.

LAURA: Wait, what? It's skin books?

TALIESIN: It's people! And I'm going to find the
most interesting spine and I'm going to turn to

the first. Birth. Death.

LAURA: I can't read that, dear.

TALIESIN: Birth! Death! Sex. Birth, death, some
disappointment. I am just gone. I'm running back

and forth, finding whatever interesting spine I
can. Are they all in Celestial?

MATT: They are currently. All the ones you've
picked up are in Celestial.

TALIESIN: Oh my god. Okay. This is great. All
right. I'm eventually probably going to pass out

from mild hyperventilation and have to sit down.

LAURA: We should maybe find Ioun, don't you
think?

TALIESIN: If we must, yes. Just as an experiment,
I'm going to think about Vesper and try and touch

a book. I don't expect this to work, but I'm going
to close my eyes and think about, and pick it up

and flip through it.

MATT: Make a religion check.

TALIESIN: Nope.

MATT: You grab a tome and pull it forth, and as
you read through the story, it's an unfamiliar

one.

TALIESIN: There's a system. I will discover the
system. I'm going to keep running around like a

kid.

MATT: What are the rest of you guys doing while
Percival is running around like a kid?

TRAVIS: I'm not interested in the fucking books.

MARISHA: Distracted by Percy, Keyleth just scans.
Does anything in Primordial stick out?

MATT: Make a perception check.

MARISHA: That's good. 29.

MATT: Glancing about, none of the spines have
anything written on them, so you have to start

pulling a few books out and opening them.

MARISHA: I hold my hand over and pull.

MATT: You open it up. It's not in a language you
understand.

MARISHA: I put it back and get frustrated.

TALIESIN: I've stopped. I'm good.

LIAM: Watched her the whole time and quietly walk
up behind and give her a hug from behind and don't

say anything.

SAM: Are there any doors leading forward or back?

MATT: It's a labyrinth of bookshelves. There's a
path forward between, two or three ahead of you,

but then it comes to an end where it splits off in
two directions. Like I said, they travel up

infinitely, so you're not quite sure which way
leads where.

LAURA: Is Sprigg still glowing?

MATT: Sprigg is, actually-- There's a very faint
blue glow in him that never really faded since

your arrival.

LAURA: I wonder if we could follow the glow.
Warmer?

MARISHA: Hey, Sprigg. Stand over there!

DARIN: All right. I run to where she's pointing.
Is there any change in the glow?

MATT: No noticeable change.

MARISHA: Damn. Sprigg, stand over there!

DARIN: I just was shot with a bunch of arrows, so
give me a second. I run over there, stop halfway

and go, ow, and then I continue. When I get there,
any change in the glow?

MATT: Make a perception check.

DARIN: Oh, it's a one.

MATT: No discernible difference.

SAM: You're inspired, if you want to use
inspiration.

MATT: It's a natural one. It's an auto-fail.

TALIESIN: Is there a card catalog?

SAM: Is there a central area info desk?

MATT: You can make an investigation check to begin
to wander around and try to find your way.

SAM: Oh, that's a natural 20.

MATT: Scanlan seems to walk with purpose into one
of the random rows.

SAM: I'm clutching my Ioun stone.

MATT: Okay. All right. Anyone else do anything?

TALIESIN: He seems to have purpose. I'm giddily
following behind.

MATT: Okay, Percy's following Scanlan.

LAURA: I'm going to walk with Percy. Oh, and
Trinket's out.

MATT: Okay. Trinket (bear grunt) looks confused
and starts looking up.

LAURA: I know. I know, dear.

MATT: Falls onto his back.

SAM: Are Vex and Percy walking with me?

MATT: Yes, they are.

SAM: I'm going to whip out my flute and I start
going, (wedding march).

TALIESIN: Oh. He may have heard.

LAURA: He heard?

TALIESIN: I thought you were going to die! I may
have panicked.

LAURA: Wait.

TALIESIN: We were asked to plead for your life,
and I may have panicked.

LAURA: Who did you tell? Percival, who did you
tell?

SAM: Look at your shirt.

LAURA: What? (screams) No!

TALIESIN: I panicked!

LAURA: Percy!

TALIESIN: I panicked! There was a giant glowing
sun, and I may have panicked. Well, I was a bit

vague, but I was--

LAURA: A bit vague? Scanlan, what did he say?

SAM: Well.

TALIESIN: Oh no.

SAM: First comes love. Then comes marriage.

TALIESIN: I may have hinted that we might have
eloped. May have hinted.

SAM: Wait, you're married?

TALIESIN: I may have hinted.

SAM: Wait, no, you said you were betrothed to be
married? Wait, you're married? Oh, wow, you just

spilled it!

TALIESIN: Silence! Cone of Silence!

SAM: They're married!

MATT: You try and yell, and it's making no sound.
It is just absolute quiet. What are the rest of

you guys doing?

DARIN: I run in the corner and see if I glow
again.

LIAM: Keyleth and Vax heard the (wedding march),
so we had a very different silent scene over in

our spot.

MARISHA: Yeah, Keyleth was quietly sobbing in
Vax's arms and then heard (wedding march) and went

(angry roar).

LAURA: Why is that bad? Why was that angry?

LIAM: Because we don't get that.

LAURA: Oh.

MATT: Grog?

SAM: So you're going to ruin everyone else's joy.
You're one of those couples.

LIAM: Thank you, vacation Scanlan.

MARISHA: Worst double date sangria partners ever.

TALIESIN: He's back, ladies and gentlemen. He's
back and taking no prisoners.

SAM: Are you guys going on vacation? We got a
divorce.

LIAM: It's the Debbie Downer SNL sketch.

MATT: Grog, what are you doing?

TRAVIS: I'm as uncomfortable as I can possibly be.
This is the worst-case scenario of my entire life.

I'm not moving and hoping this is all over soon.

TALIESIN: I love that.

TRAVIS: It's just endless books, beyond what you
can see! Are there chairs?

LAURA: I feel like Pike would've comforted him.

MATT: Yeah, Pike comes over.

TRAVIS: There are chairs?

MATT: No, there aren't. She goes, "Do you want to
go with everyone else, Grog?"

TRAVIS: I don't know. Do you?

MATT: "It's okay, yeah! They're walking."

TRAVIS: I want to leave. Fast.

MATT: "The faster we follow them, then the faster
we can go."

TRAVIS: Okay. Let's go.

MATT: "I bet you could read some of these books."

TRAVIS: I bet not. These are really tall books.

MATT: "Come on." She grabs your hand and begins
tugging you behind her. What are you guys doing?

MARISHA: Me and him?

MATT: Yeah.

LIAM: Leaning into each other.

MATT: Okay. So you guys stay there.

DARIN: I'm trying to see if I'm glowing anywhere.

MATT: You run around for a good minute and a half
and you're not seeing any sort of change.

DARIN: Nothing?

MATT: No.

DARIN: Can I go forward into the bookcases and
look right and left to see where they lead?

MATT: Okay, yeah. You turn around the corner and
see them disappear around the edge.

DARIN: I'll continue.

MATT: Okay. So you follow them. As you guys are
having this silent argument, Sprigg catches up to

you, but you hear nothing, Sprigg, as they're all
going...

TALIESIN: I just turned it off. I got everyone to
agree.

MATT: Okay.

LAURA: Hi. How's it going?

DARIN: Glowing. You are, too! What's going on with
that? Yeah, you seem to be blushing.

LAURA: It's so hot in here. It's very hot in
here.

MATT: Pike and Grog catch up around the corner.

TRAVIS: What did you find? The way out? Exit?

SAM: Seems like it could be this way. We'll have
to band together and go forward.

TRAVIS: Really?

SAM: Yes.

TALIESIN: Where did you get the sunglasses from?

SAM: It's glowing in here.

MATT: The Ioun stone actually is giving a faint
glow similar to the glow that you see emanating

from Sprigg's torso.

SAM: Is it glowing any more than--

MATT: Make a perception check.

SAM: Oh, okay. That's an eight. Maybe 11, I don't
know. Do I add Jack of All Trades?

MATT: You do, yeah. If you're not--

SAM: I really want to know. I will inspire myself,
and I'll add a d12. That makes it 16.

MATT: Okay. You start getting the sense, the
further you walk, both your stone and Sprigg are

beginning to emanate a slightly stronger glow, and
so you guys begin to realize that this could be

used as a path to something. You're not quite
sure.

SAM: Let's keep going.

MATT: Okay. So everyone's going behind.

LIAM: Imagination clarification, because a Silence
effect went off there. Did Vax and Keyleth hear,

"You're married?" Or was that all covered by
Silence?

MATT: No, he crushed that in Silence.

LIAM: So we heard the song, but that's it. Good to
know.

MATT: Everyone else has gone ahead and vanished
into the library. You guys are staying?

LIAM: Noticing that we're totally alone, silently
tug Keyleth down after them.

TALIESIN: I felt that honesty was important at
that moment.

LAURA: No, it very much is. I'm very glad. I'm
just surprised he didn't say anything. I spoke

with him.

SAM: He was acting nobly. I won't tell anyone if
you don't want me to.

TALIESIN: We had to tell them eventually.

MATT: As you're following the stone, you hear some
footfalls as Vax and Keyleth catch up to you

guys.

MARISHA: We already know. It's fine.

LIAM: You're engaged. You don't have to--

TALIESIN: Well.

LAURA: I'm sorry I didn't tell you about that.
Engagement. But you know.

MARISHA: You fucking liars. You fucking liars!
Just tell us! We know!

LAURA: We got married.

TALIESIN: We may have gotten married.

MARISHA: Yeah. (sarcastically) Oh, surprise!

TALIESIN: It was going to be--

LAURA: (weakly) Celebration!

TALIESIN: We didn't want to make it a thing. We
wanted it to just be--

SAM: I think it's great.

LAURA: Thank you, Scanlan.

SAM: It's wonderful when two people can fall in
love and have each other forever and ever. That's

nice. No, I mean it! You guys are great. You're
super cute together. You'll make Whitestone--

You'll be celebrities there.

TRAVIS: Do we have to get you gifts?

SAM: No, they eloped, so we're clear.

TALIESIN: Very specifically, no. This place.

MARISHA: Yeah, it's amazing. And Keyleth lights up
her flame hands as she walks off in a fury.

TALIESIN: Do you not know what this place means?
Am I the only one who understands what this place

means?

TRAVIS: I would love to know.

TALIESIN: It all matters!

LAURA: None of us have forgotten.

TALIESIN: No, I mean, really! It all matters! So much, and
it's not going to go away! Nothing goes away!

MARISHA: No, it only gets filed away in some
library where no one else can experience it except

for, what, one, maybe two people ever.

TALIESIN: One and two people are all that it takes
to experience something!

MATT: An echoing voice billows out from the right
side of your troupe. A creaky, warm, matronly voice

that surrounds and almost welcomes you with the
intonation of a grandmother. It says, "Nothing is

"forever, Percival." You glance off to the right,
and you can see there's a break in the bookcase.

To your right, you see the shelves have stopped
ahead in this direction to reveal a circular

common area within the library, where the ground
domes downward into an 80-foot-wide concave pit of

cushions and tables, all standing at odd angles
alongside this pit, but never sliding. Gravity

seems to shift depending on where the dome stands.
These tables hold teacups and writing implements

and various other décor, and things that involve
binding and writing. None of them slipping, all of

them affixed to the table as the dome slowly comes
to a central rest. Long, spiraling streams of

silver, blue, and gray silk descend from the
supposed ceiling that is beyond your sight, and

they come down like drifting silks that push past
as you enter the area.

Sitting 40 feet from you in the center of the
dome, no larger than a normal person, is an older

woman with long, wavy silver hair. Her olive skin is
somewhat weathered and wrinkled around her almond

eyes, but the warmth of her smile, and her vibrant
purple irises put you at ease immediately. Her

blue and white robes tumble out from her form in
tendrils of parchment that snake through the

pillows like roots. She smiles as you turn and see
her. "I felt that you would find me."

And that's where we'll end tonight's session.

SAM: Wow, Matt. Wow, Darin!

LIAM: Can everybody watching still at home give a
round of applause for Darin?

MATT: Seriously. If you're available, you may want
to, if you can, come and join us for the first

half maybe. Not next week, but the week after
Comic Con, if you're interested. Because I want to

roleplay out you meeting Ioun.

DARIN: It would be an honor. You know how
important this is to me.

MATT: Great. I'll look forward to having you back
in a couple weeks, then.

DARIN: And I will see you next weekend, as well!

MATT: Yes, indeed. Oh, Comic Con. Guys, thank you
so much. Great game, well done. Breaking stuff,

apparently. Once again, we have no episode next
week because we'll be at Comic Con, but we have

our panel on Saturday for Critical Role. Love you
guys, hope you have a wonderful night, and is it

Thursday yet? Good night!

[music]