BRIAN: What's up, GenCon?!

(cheering)

BRIAN: That's a lot of people. How you guys
doing?

(cheering)

BRIAN: Oh my god. Send me the bill for your plane
ticket! If you guys think this outfit is

ridiculous, you have literally not seen anything
yet. Okay. Thank you for waiting. What?

(muffled shout)

BRIAN: You know what's up, brother. Thank you guys
for waiting. I heard, Tico told me that people

were out there at 6:00am waiting? You guys! We're
about to watch people play Dungeons and Dragons!

(cheering)

BRIAN: What is happening?! We are alive at the
best moment in history. Right now, there's a

stadium full of people basically watching this
live on the internet, and going,

"How did Ashley let him wear that?"

(laughter)

BRIAN: Okay, let's start. Let's get started.
(laughs) It is I, your host for the evening,

Recession-Friendly Ryan Seacrest. This outfit is
what happens when you take 'shrooms before

creating a Saint's Row character.

(laughter)

BRIAN: All right. You guys already sound a little
warmed up.

(cheering)

BRIAN: Yeah. But! Just to make sure, because the
live shows are all about the audience

participation. We're going to go over a couple of
rules for that really fast, but before we do, I

get paid to be the hype man, so let me get you
guys hyped up.

(cheering)

BRIAN: Okay, wait. Okay. When I say, "Tary," you
say "Who?" Tary!

AUDIENCE: Who!

BRIAN: Tary!

AUDIENCE: Who!

BRIAN: When I say, "Tary," you say, "Who?" Tary!

AUDIENCE: Who?

BRIAN: Tary!

AUDIENCE: Who?

BRIAN: When I say, "Tary," you say "What!" Tary!

AUDIENCE: What!

BRAIN: Tary!

AUDIENCE: What!

BRAIN: Goddamn. Okay, that's it. Warm-up time
over. That was easy. Okay, here's the deal.

Sometimes, people in the Twitch chat don't like
Critical Role Live because the audience

participates. Those people-- (laughs) Those
people-- hold on. I just want to say, with all the

love and respect in my heart, those people can
tune off right now.

(cheering)

BRIAN: Because I don't know about you, but when
I'm at home watching Critical Role, and someone

gets a "how do you want to do this," I fucking
scream!

(cheering)

BRIAN: Okay. Here's what you can do. You can
laugh, you can cheer, you can scream, you can cry.

You can stand up and blow the roof off this place
if something cool happens. You can hug your

neighbor, and get drunk after the show if
something sad happens. And then someone please

tweet me the bar that you're at, and I will join
you... with Travis Willingham's American Express.

Which is currently in my fanny pack. Please do not
shout rules. Please do not shout advice. Please do

not shout corrections. Please do not shout ideas.
Odds are, your idea is probably better that what

some of the stuff they're going to come up with
is. However, part of the thing that is so

endearing about this show is watching these
nerdy-ass voice actors figure out how to play

Dungeons and Dragons.

Isn't it? That's what I love about it. Okay. It's
disruptive, and it'll light the community on fire,

and we like to keep these live things, but all
that being said, please laugh, please cheer.

There's going to be so much cool stuff. Oh, I was
supposed to throw these out.

(cheering)

BRIAN: (laughs) Okay. All right. Thank you, guys.
Who came here from outside the US? Cheer.

(cheering)

BRIAN: Wow! Really? For this? Look at me! Without
further ado, I would like to introduce the cast of

a little show we like to call Critical Role.

Travis Willingham!

Laura Bailey!

Liam O'Brien!

Marisha Ray!

Taliesin Jaffe!

Children, shield your eyes. I present to you: Sam
Riegel!

And the man that brought us all together. Ladies
and gentlemen, Matthew Mercer!

The cast of Critical Role, ladies and gentlemen!

(cheering)

TRAVIS: All right.

LAURA: All right.

TRAVIS: Fuck! Fucking shit!

(cheering)

MATT: So that's surreal. Oh man. Well, we're all
so excited for you guys to join us tonight, both

here in person and out there on the internet. How
crazy is it that we live in a world where, right

now, we have people here live in this fantastic
theater to watch Dungeons and Dragons?

(cheering)

MATT: For all the crazy shit going on in the
world, it's nice to know that we can carve some

good out of it here tonight.

(cheering)

MATT: And in that regard, so we don't keep you too
long before we can get to the game which you all

came here to watch, let's go through some quick
announcements. Very quick. In fact, I think the

big announcement, if Liam and Taliesin want to
take that?

LIAM: Sure. So Taliesin and I have been working on
something for about a year, with around 89 artists

from our community. It's been a glimmer in our eye
for over a year, and it is almost here. We're

going to be releasing, in the fall from the Geek &
Sundry store, a Critical Role art book.

(cheering)

SAM: Liam, they're excited about reading. They
love books!

TALIESIN: We've only told them about the pictures
so far.

LIAM: You guys know what a crucial part of this
community the artists have become, and we have

selected 89 artists from many more; there wasn't
enough-- pages are limited, do I have a page

number on here?

TALIESIN: 260 something pages?

BRIAN: 256, Liam!

TALIESIN: 256 pages.

LIAM: We've seen it, and it is beautiful. There's
going to be a deluxe edition and a standard

edition. It will be available for sale in the Geek
& Sundry store in the late fall, published by

Hunters Books.

TALIESIN: I'll say, regardless of what version,
when you actually get the book, it's going to be

treated as an artifact from the Cobalt Reserve, so
there's going to be historical texts and writings

from various librarians in the Cobalt Reserve,
chronicling the adventures of Vox Machina,

including a lot of fun Easter eggs. And there will
be some fun Easter eggs in there, there may even

be some background meta data that doesn't really
exist anywhere else.

LIAM: Yeah. This is not your basic, go the CVS
store and get a photo book made. A lot of love and

care went into this. We've been talking with
artists for months and months. A lot of blood,

sweat and tears have gone into this. We're very
grateful to the artists who are involved, some of

them are in this audience tonight; thank you.

(cheering)

LIAM: We stood around and looked at a proof of
this about a week ago, and I might have gotten a

little verklempt. It is really special. So keep
your eyes open for it. Oh yeah, one last thing. To

keep up to date, I'm sure we'll talk more about
it, but you can visit geekandsundry.com/artbook to

sign up for email updates and book previews, so do
so.

TALIESIN: It should be available for ordering
sometime in the late fall.

ALL: Late fall!

MATT: Thank you guys very much.

LAURA: Yeah, thank you guys.

MATT: These two busted their ass on this book.

(cheering)

MATT: The other quick announcement we have: it's a
fun little thing that'll be tomorrow for those of

us at GenCon, and if it goes over well hopefully
at other events in future, but when we released

the Tal'Dorei campaign guide, the original design
of the cover was from a POV of Scanlan, and there

was some dissent in the community that Scanlan
wasn't in full display on the cover. So I

contacted Aaron Riley, the fantastic artist that
worked on our cover, and we got some vinyl decals

made so you can put one of two different pictures
of Scanlan on your cover of the book or any book

or art piece you find.

(cheering)

MATT: We're hoping to have those in tomorrow, for
those who can come to the signing, and even if you

didn't get a ticket for the signing, come to the
event anyway. We will have those available to pass

out, hopefully. So you can pick from the two, or
grab one of each, it's going to be ridiculous. One

of the particular images, I'm excited to see where
Scanlan shows up.

LAURA: They're really great.

MATT: It's absurd.

LIAM: Why's this small man on the Sistine Chapel?

(laughter)

MATT: That's why they're vinyl; you can remove
them without damaging property. I think. We'll

find out. Anyway, without further ado, I think
that brings us to the end of our announcements for

the evening, and as such, bring us into tonight's
episode of Critical Role.

[dramatic music]

TRAVIS: Let's go!

MATT: All right, let's bring this down.

MARISHA: Holy shit.

LIAM: Vecna's Amish taint.

(laughter)

MATT: A little late, but thank you. I appreciate
that. Last we left off, Vox Machina, in their trek

to eventually hopefully seal and be rid of the
threat of Vecna, the Whispered One, in his

recently ascended godhood on the Prime Material
Plane, found themselves traversing below the

sub-ocean volcano, the Scaldseat, where they
managed to water-breathe their way through a jug.

They traversed the poisonous air within, and
coming upon the Allhammer's Core Anvil, on which

many artifacts of the Founding and beyond were
forged. There, you fought with the forge guardian,

who was left to see who has proven worthy to
utilize its components. You defeated it, and in

doing so, Percival, with the designs bestowed upon
you from Ioun, and Grog, with the bestowed-upon

knowledge of blacksmithing, took to the blacksmith
tools and together managed to forge, barely

successfully with a modicum of structural
integrity, the three Prime Trammels, hopefully

intended to destroy-- or at least seal off--
Vecna's influence on this plane.

The trammels now complete, each glowing with the
runes of each gifted deity power source. We have

one that glows yellow across its runic outside,
one that is a sky blue, and one that emanates a

black shadow from its runes, representing each
deity that bequeathed an element of their power

unto these trammels. You then decided to have
Scanlan drop his magnificent mansion and decide

where your next journey was. As you all enter the
mansion, preparing for an evening's rest or

otherwise, we left off with you, now, away from
the heat of the volcano, plotting your next

directional path.

So Vox Machina, what do you want to do?

LIAM: That's a great question.

LAURA: Let me see those trammels. Who has the
trammels?

TRAVIS: I do. Why?

LAURA: I just want to look at them.

TRAVIS: All of them or just one?

LAURA: All of them.

TRAVIS: Fucking hell, shit. Here you go.

LAURA: That's it. I just want to hold them,
really.

TRAVIS: They're real big, right?

LAURA: Yeah, I'm cradling them, Grog.

MATT: Surprisingly, though, due to the platinum's
design, they're not as heavy as you expect them,

whether it'd be the enchantment or the material
that it was made from. They're still heavy for

you, Vex, because your strength is pretty shitty.

LAURA: Can I tell which one is which god?

MATT: Yes. The one that glows yellow, you feel a
slight bit of kinship with the blessing you

received from Pelor, the Dawnfather. The other
two, you can differentiate being the sky blue

color, probably with Ioun, the Knowing Mistress,
and the black probably representing the Raven

Queen.

LAURA: All right, cool, I'm going to hold on to
the Pelor one. Pass them back.

TRAVIS: I've got the other two?

LAURA: Yeah. I don't know if anybody else wants to
hold one.

TRAVIS: Just in case things go sour I also thought of
a nice way to use these, and I slide one between

each of my fingers, and I hold it up. (shink)
Okay, back in the Bag of Holding.

LIAM: Are you still embiggened right now?

TRAVIS: No, I haven't been biggened for a while.

LAURA: Yeah, he was only big fighting the
bulette.

TRAVIS: Oh, wait. By the way, I believe you said
that if I successfully did all of these trammels

that you had something for me. Thought I wouldn't
remember, did you?

(laughter)

LIAM: I did say that. It's rather personal,
though, I hope the rest of you can understand

that. I'm not going to be around for much longer,
so I wanted to say--

SAM: Do you want us to step out so you can have a
moment?

LIAM: No, we'll find a minute.

SAM: What? What does that mean?

LIAM: It's awkward; it's not something I'm
comfortable talking with--

LAURA: So you want us to leave?

LIAM: No! We can talk out a plan. Tonight before
we go to bed. It could be now; it could be later.

MARISHA: You've said too much about it now.

LIAM: I take Grog by the arm, and I usher him out
the door of the mansion.

TRAVIS: This is weird.

LAURA: Outside the mansion? You're out the mansion
now?

LIAM:Yeah.

SAM: You're going outside?

LIAM: Just out the front door.

SAM: Into the inside of the volcano?

LIAM: Is it on fire?

MATT: It's certainly very hot.

LIAM: Fuck it, Grog, let's go downstairs.

TRAVIS: War room!

MARISHA: He has 40 floors!

TRAVIS: We're going down to the war room, which is
a sand pit.

LIAM: Yeah, and I ignore all of the cat-calling
and all of the sniping and all of the shittiness.

These fucking assholes.

LAURA: Have fun, you two!

SAM: Use protection!

(laughter)

LIAM: That's what Grog is for!

MATT: The two of you descend the staircase into
the subterranean war room, where there you see

before you the giant sand pit that is currently
adorned with multiple training dummies with armor

and weapons. Strapped to them, magnificently
pristine, based on how many times you destroyed

and/or restructured the chamber, but there it lies
before you.

LIAM: Big man?

TRAVIS: Yeah? That's me.

LIAM: I'm not going to be around much longer,
probably, or you're not going to be around much

longer; one or the other.

TRAVIS: Yeah.

LIAM: Yeah. Boy, I've been holding on to a thing
for a while now. Taryon, that scamp, gave me a

gift ages ago. He became a fan after I pranked his
ass at the beach. He caught the bug, and before we

said our goodbyes, he talked to me for a bit and
gave me something.

TRAVIS: You pranked his ass, and he caught the
bug?

(laughter)

LIAM: Right, I've got to talk simpler; sorry.
That's my mistake. Taryon gave me a very unique

item, and the purpose of it was to fuck with you.

(cheering)

LIAM: I could say "turducken" and you people would
turn it into sexual innuendo!

(cheering)

TRAVIS: I don't know what that is.

LIAM: Anyway, he wanted me to pull a prank on you,
and we have a lot of history with that, and I held

onto it for a long time, looking for a time that
felt right, and it never happened, and sometimes I

felt like I didn't want to do that anymore, but I
don't want to let his gift go to waste. And truth

be told, I did a bit of research on it. It is a
love potion, Grog.

(gasping and cheering)

MATT: I forgot about that.
LIAM: Lasts about an hour.

(laughter)

LIAM: Lasts about an hour, and for a while, it was
really tempting, and I was looking for a moment

because that's you and me, that's history. But
then I did some research and it turns out that it

wouldn't have worked on you, anyway, because if
you want someone to fall in love with you, it has

to be on a person who you'd be interested in. And
to quote a very handsome dickhead we know, I'm

pretty sure you go taco, not hot dog.

(laughter)

LIAM: So I was right to assume then, yeah?

TRAVIS: Yep. Taco.

LIAM: We're not all so limited, but that's your
thing; that's fine. I can't even use it on you,

but I've got it. And I'm going to miss you. I'll
be gone soon. I don't even know if we have time. A

lot of us could be dead soon, but I'm not offering
you this thing, but I'm offering you an

experience.

(cheering)

TRAVIS: I don't know a lot of big words, but I
feel like I need a little bit of clarification.

LIAM: I don't know if we have time for this, but
maybe, for old time's sake, because I love you and

I know you love me and we share this in common. I
thought maybe we could prank Scanlan together.

(cheering)

LIAM: Because let's be honest, that guy would fuck
a turducken in front of him.

TRAVIS: Just for the record, I had no doubts about
where that conversation was going. None. You have

a deal. I don't know how or when we are going to
pull this off, but if you don't make time--

LIAM: Yeah. It could be tonight.

TRAVIS: Fuck it. It's tonight.

(laughter)

LIAM: Here's what I don't have. I don't have a
plan.

TRAVIS: Nope, me neither. We never have those. So
listen, maybe while we're eating some of those

shitty salads that this fucking place makes now,
you can drizzle it on the top, or does he have to

drink it with a drink?

LIAM: I think he just needs to down it one way or
another. It could be mixed with something else; it

could be on its own.

TRAVIS: Who do we make him fall in love with?

LIAM: Well, originally I was thinking maybe we
could have a bet and see which one of us he falls

in love with.

(laughter)

LIAM: And I know that's a shitty idea, but we have
to get up and--

TRAVIS: I fucking love it.

(laughter and cheering)

LIAM: So that means isolating the gnome away from
the others, because he could fall in love with

literally anything or anyone.

TRAVIS: Yeah, but look. The hunter does not go
after its prey in an isolated environment. The

hunter finds him in his natural habitat. Let him
roam free, I say.

(laughter)

LIAM: I'm not sure I know what that means, but I
will carry this baton and follow your lead.

TRAVIS: Well, look. Before the rest of the group
starts wondering what we're doing in the war room,

let's go back up and whenever your sneaky ass
thinks it's appropriate you (drip) in his drink.

How about that?

LIAM: We'll call that Plan A. Plan B will be that
you grab his ass, and I just shove it in.

(laughter)

LIAM: Plan A, Plan B. You know those letters, you
know that far.

TRAVIS: I do. I know that part. And we head back
to the group.

SAM: Meanwhile, inside. I'm just so happy to be back in
the group.

(laughter)

SAM: It's been a pretty crazy few days but I feel
like you've all accepted me and I'm so happy to be

back. And I can't thank you enough, really, from
the bottom of my heart. Thank you. Thank you for

fully accepting me back.

LAURA: We're really sorry for everything, Scanlan.
You know we love you.

SAM: I love you, too. Not in a weird way.

LAURA: No. I'm married.

SAM: Just friends.

LAURA: That would be awkward.

LIAM: Hey, what are you guys talking about?

SAM: Oh, just how much we love life.

MARISHA: How we're a happy family, you know?

LIAM: We are. We are close.

TRAVIS: (yells) Who wants a drink?

(laughter)

SAM: That's a great idea, Grog. Invisible servants,
bring us the finest vegan wine.

MATT: As a procession of ghostly entities make
their way from the far-off kitchen on the basement

floor of Scanlan's magnificent mansion, they
procure a number of glass bottles containing wine.

It's just wine.

SAM: But no added animal fats.

MATT: You're not wrong. Goblets are placed across
the tables. Drinks are poured and you all have

within your grasp a fair nightcap, if you will,
before you find rest for the evening.

TRAVIS: (clears throat) Scanlan. Man. Great
teamwork today. Everyone, really.

LAURA: Yeah, seriously. I'm so amazed with both
you and Percy. You really pulled through, and we

would be lost without both of you.

LIAM: I start examining my fingernails and moving
closer to Scanlan.

(laughter)

MARISHA: I do feel like our teamwork has been
getting better, though. We've been doing so good.

Synergizing.

LAURA: Yeah, that fight could've gone terribly,
and we pulled through as a team.

MARISHA: Oh, a hundred percent.

SAM: You know what, though? I know in the past,
Vax, I've had my differences with you. I didn't

like you charging after that dragon that one time,
and we had some issues, but tonight I feel like

we're close and you would never do anything to
betray me.

LIAM: Oh, that wine looks really good.

SAM: Let's take a sip. But first, I was thinking
about how close we've become, Vax, and I even

wrote you a little inspirational song.

(cheering)

LIAM: Here, let me hold your drink.

SAM: Okay, sure. You'll hold my drink while I
sing. This is just a song to show you how much you mean

to me and how close we've become over these years.
It's a long one. (rapping) Don't be tired, I'm

here to inspire. Before you blow out, let me light
your fire. I got no choir, just a gnome and a

lyre. So listen up to Burt Reynolds, esquire.

(rhythmic clapping)

SAM: Oh, that's going to fuck me up. (rapping)
You've got those moves like dagger! You're fast as

a cat! You can attack five times-- I checked it
with Matt! You can't be killed, and one more

caveat: You get to sit next to the Poohbah de
Doink of All This and That!

So imagine a dark room, lit from above. Folks as
far as Czech Republic came to give you their love.

Your heart is beating like a goddamn drum. It's
singing, "I'm going back to Indiana, Indiana, here

"I come!" The tension is building, the roof's going
to blow. This ain't a rehearsal, it's the

motherfucking live show! Mic's rolling, camera's
on, dice rolling, Scanlan's song. No more

cajoling, this shit is on. This crowd is bigger
than my cube-like dong!

(cheering)

SAM: You been down but what's it going to take to
give you some sack, man? How about 2,400 Critters

chanting, "Vax'ildan! Vax'ildan! Vax'ildan!"

(chanting)

MATT: Go ahead and make a sleight of hand check.

LIAM: 29. That was inspiration to me?

MARISHA: He's inspiring you because he thinks
you're going to fucking fail.

LIAM: 39.

MATT: Scanlan, why don't you go ahead and make a
perception check?

SAM: That's a 12.

LIAM: I instantly dive and grab Keyleth's eyes and
cover them, and turn her away.

MARISHA: Stop. Get off of me!

LIAM: Sorry!

MARISHA: Why? Your hands are a little clammy. Oh
god! Why are you sweating? Why are you nervous?

You're nervous!

MATT: A very strange display from Vax'ildan.
However, your drink is available for you at the

table.

SAM: Yeah!

LAURA: That was a great song, Scanlan.

SAM: That's good stuff! Man, I just feel invigorated!

MATT: All right, so as you finish the drink, you
blink your eyes. I'm going to ask you, Scanlan,

who do you see first?

SAM: Let's see here, what do we got, six people
over here?

MATT: Well, you have two that have dove off to the
side.

SAM: Oh, okay. Then I'll roll a d4. One, two-- oh
wait, it's just three. It was a fucking four. Two!

Okay, Keyleth.

MATT: No, Keyleth is being shielded right now.

SAM: Oh shit! Well, then it's just Vex or Percy?
Or wait, are those two, too?

MATT: The other people in the room right now are
Percival, Vex, or Grog.

SAM: Okay, well, then it would be Grog. Do I have
three choices or four?

LAURA: You have four choices!

SAM: Four choices! All right, and could you raise
your hand if you're one of my choices? Okay. One,

two, three, four.

It's Percy.

(cheering)

MATT: So here's my question, Scanlan. First and
foremost, let me pull up. Is there a saving throw?

LIAM: Philter of Love.

MATT: Right.

LIAM: I can recite it for you, if you like. The
next time you see a creature within ten minutes

after drinking this philter, you become charmed by
the creature for one hour. If the creature is of a

species and gender you are normally attracted to--
turducken-- you regard it as your true love while

you are charmed. This potion's rose-hued
effervescent liquid contains one easy-to-miss

bubble shaped like a heart.

MATT: How long does it last?

LIAM: One hour.

MATT: All right. And I guess my question to you,
Scanlan, is based on your journeys and travels

across the lands of Tal'Dorei and beyond, how
adventurous have you been in your various

exploits?

SAM: A human man? That was teenage years, baby.
I've gone much further than that since then.

MATT: Then as you glance up into the beautiful
eyes of the white-haired Master of Whitestone, his

white locks gently curling at the tips from an
afternoon of sweating amongst the heat of the

volcano, his fingers gingerly caressing the
outside of the goblet in which he's enjoyed his

own wine. You find yourself impossibly attracted
to your once ally, now direction of your

affection.

SAM: I don't know. I don't know if it's the wine
talking, but oh man. I feel something I've never

felt before, Percival.

TALIESIN: That sounds like the wine talking.

SAM: I've never seen you in this light before.
Your eyebrows. I want to lick them. They seem soft.

LAURA: You want to what?!

SAM: That came out wrong. What I meant was, what
are you doing later?

LAURA: I walk up and I palm Scanlan's forehead and
slam him to the ground. What the fuck are you

doing?

SAM: I'm sorry! It's just, well, you've seen it.

(laughter)

MATT: Continue.

SAM: The way he looks at you and everything stops.
The way all sound fades away when he's talking.

MARISHA: No, that's his Silence spell that he got
recently.

SAM: The way he cocks his gun. (groans) Holds it
so firmly. It trembles just a little but then

bang. (moans) Just a gentle touch is all it
takes.

TALIESIN: Would this be an insight check, at this
point?

MATT: Yes.

TRAVIS: Please.

TALIESIN: Oh no.

TRAVIS: No, it's not! Is it really?

LAURA: I'm going to feel his forehead. Does he
feel warm?

TALIESIN: How long have you felt this way? This is
a bit--

SAM: It feels like forever. (singing) One song,
glory. One song to win your heart, glory. Where do

I even start?

TALIESIN: I don't know what's happening right
now.

SAM: (singing) One song from the pretty boy
gnome.

TRAVIS: We fucked up. Oh man.

LAURA: Scanlan, I don't blame you. I don't. This
seems to be coming out of nowhere, and he's

married to me, and I will cut you!

SAM: Love knoweth no boundaries, and even though
there's a significant age difference between us--

LAURA: How much of an age difference?

SAM: I'm not at liberty to say.

(laughter)

SAM: Why does marriage need to be so constricting,
man? I mean, can't we be free in this crazy

mixed-up world?

TALIESIN: I'm not going to pretend that I'm not
extremely flattered by this, and I am, but I don't know.

SAM: I want to see you naked.

MARISHA: Scanlan, are you experiencing a bit of
cotton mouth? Maybe?

SAM: (smacking) Yes.

MARISHA: Are your pupils a little dilated?

SAM: The lights.

LAURA: I'm going to look into his eyes. Are his
eyes dilated?

MARISHA: I turn to Vax. What did you do?

TALIESIN: Is it that hard to believe that maybe
someone finds me attractive?

(cheering)

LIAM: Guys, this is all besides the point. We have
a god to kill. What are we going to do about the god?

SAM: Yes. No, we should talk. We should
strategize.

(laughter and cheering)

LIAM: I want to step outside the game for a second
to say that Sam Riegel gave me a bullet to kill

Travis Willingham with, and I have turned the gun
back on Sam Riegel.

(cheering)

LIAM: And shortly, it will be my time to die.

MATT: After this unique and unexpected display of
overt affection, you find yourself sitting around

a table amongst the mansion to discuss over your
wine and confusion what plan of action to take

next in your journey to take down the Whispered
One, the Undying King.

LAURA: I'm going to sit directly between Percy and
Scanlan for all of this conversation.

TRAVIS: So we rest and then we go hunting? Or do
we try and rally allies?

SAM: I cast Mage Hand to tickle Percy's knee.

LAURA: I have a 23 passive perception, Scanlan.

MATT: Scanlan, make a sleight of hand check.

SAM: 20.

LAURA: What?

MATT: Yeah, you see him starting to make his
fingers over towards your boy.

LAURA: I grab his fingers and start to bend them
backwards. I whisper in his ear: do you want to

keep playing your fucking lute or not?

SAM: I'd prefer it if Percy did.

(laughter)

LAURA: Seriously, what the fuck is wrong with you?
How long have you felt this way? Because this is

very fucking strange, Scanlan.

SAM: I don't know. It was love at first sight, but
now, so not first. I'm sorry! I'm sorry! I'll try

to keep it together. I'll think of gross things.
Victor's ball sack. Ugh.

MATT: "Learn from my mistakes."

SAM: Why are they so singed? All right. Okay,
let's focus up. Okay. Go on, strategize.

LIAM: Time! We don't have a lot of time. So what
are we going to do with it? Are we going to get

allies? Are we going to talk to Allura again?
Gilmore?

TRAVIS: Ooh, wait. First things first, do we know
where he is? Don't you have the ability to like--

LAURA: Oh yeah. Is he still in the same place?

LIAM: I don't know in here; I need to shove my
head out the door for a sec.

LAURA: Well, shove your head out the door.

MATT: All right. As you emerge into the heated air
of the sub-ocean volcano, you take a moment and

concentrate and you can sense the direction and
distance seems to be approximately the same.

LAURA: He hasn't moved at all?

MATT: Make a perception check, I guess.

LIAM: 24.

MATT: 24. You take about five minutes or so to
concentrate, and while the distance and direction

is relatively the same, there is very faint
movement.

LIAM: Am I able to feel gradual coming towards
where we are, away, anything like that?

MATT: From where you are currently, which is in
the volcano, it seems to be east and south of its

previous location.

LAURA: Where would that move him towards?

MARISHA: Towards Vasselheim.

LAURA: Solid.

TALIESIN: We should maybe go to Vasselheim in the
morning, start to rally.

LAURA: Yeah. Do Allura and Gilmore and Kima and
everyone, do they know what's going on? Have we

sent word?

TALIESIN: Well, we've sent some word out to the
world.

LIAM: We've sent messages to Tary and to who else?
There were two messages sent.

MARISHA: Tary, the Ashari.

SAM: Kaylie. I think.

TALIESIN: We activated the beacons.

MARISHA: We activated the Chaos Orbs. Crisis Orbs.
I always mess them up.

TRAVIS: So we should rest and head to Vasselheim?

TALIESIN: We're not any good to anybody at the
moment, so I imagine so.

LIAM: I think we'll all feel better after a
night's sleep. Yeah.

TRAVIS: Scanlan, where are you sleeping tonight?

SAM: In my room.

TRAVIS: Do we need to post guards outside?

SAM: I have all the guards I need. Don't worry,
I'll be safe.

MARISHA: We're not worried about you.

TALIESIN: It'll be fine.

LAURA: It'll be fine!

TRAVIS: (laughs) It'll be great.

SAM: So we're going to sleep and then to
Vasselheim?

TRAVIS: We rest and then we go.

TALIESIN: That's the plan.

LAURA: Yeah.

SAM: Okay, let's do it.

MATT: All right. Finishing your wine, you all
scatter to your various rooms throughout the

mansion, prepare yourselves for an evening's rest.
In the morning, journey to the cradle of

civilization, Vasselheim.

TALIESIN: I do set a bucket trap at the door just
in case. I set a bucket trap.

LIAM: As everybody's trundling up the stairs, I
catch Grog alone for a second and say: let this

stand as a testament to how much I love you. I'm
sorry that I shaved your beard.

TRAVIS: Thank you. I don't have to kill you now.

(applause)

LIAM: Give him a little pinch on the cheek. Oh,
Grog, you couldn't if you tried. Now. Good night,

big guy.

TRAVIS: 'Night.

MATT: All right. You all find yourselves in your
chambers. Anything else you wish to do before the

evening comes to a close?

SAM: Yes. Sorry, Matt. I know we're trying to get
to other things, but magic compels me to put on my

best silk g-string, and it compels me to use the
series of tunnels that interconnect all of the rooms.

TALIESIN: Oh shit! No!

SAM: That only I know about. And it compels me to
sneak into Percival's room in the dead of night

and crawl into bed with him.

LAURA: I'm in the bed, you motherfucker!

SAM: Are you in there?!

LAURA: We're married!

SAM: I thought it was like the 50s, where you had
two twin beds.

MATT: Have you seen their gold pile?

SAM: Then I guess I better be extra stealthy.

MATT: Make a stealth check.

SAM: Okay. I think that's going to work. Eight.

(laughter)

MATT: With a slight jostle, Vex'ahlia and
Percival, you both pop one eye open and glance

over as what you thought at first might be a small
child crawling into your bed, scared of a midnight

storm, instead find a magnificent, silk-adorned,
familiar gnome trying to wedge himself between

your bodies, which is impressive, based on the
spooning position you're already in.

SAM: Let it happen.

TALIESIN: I reach underneath my pillow. I grab a
small copper ball. Manners.

(cheering)

MATT: All right. And that's a strength ability
check?

TALIESIN: That's a strength check, I believe.

SAM: Just a check?

MATT: Is it a check or saving throw? That's the
distinction now.

TALIESIN: Where is it? It's a check, not a saving
throw.

SAM: Ten.

TALIESIN: No.

MATT: With a rapid series of clicks, whirrs and
grinding of metal, you watch as a metallic

exoskeleton unwinds from the sphere, (clicking)
wraps itself around your body. You find yourself

suddenly bound and held in place, unable to shift,
as these cold metal bars wrap around you like an

exoskeleton.

LAURA: Scanlan Shorthalt, tell me now why I
shouldn't feed you to Trinket.

TALIESIN: I undo the lock so he can talk.

SAM: I'm sorry! I don't know what's happening to
me. I know that this is your marital bed. Can I at

least watch? I promise I won't look at you, Vex. I
won't look at you at all! I'll just be looking at

Percy.

LAURA: Would we know that something is wrong?

TALIESIN: I rolled a one. I don't know anything's
wrong.

MATT: Make an insight check on this.

LAURA: What am I making? Insight. Okay.

MATT: Now that you're up close and definitely
discerning his behavior.

LAURA: Fucking A.

TALIESIN: I rolled a one.

LAURA: It's a 12, but I rolled a three.

MATT: You get the sense that something's off and
different, but you think it may be a practical

joke or he's just trying to fuck with you.

LAURA: All I have is Lesser Restoration. Unless
you're fucking with me, I'm going to try Lesser

Restoration.

TALIESIN: Or we could go to his room and defile
his room. God only knows what's happened there.

LAURA: Here's the thing, darling. If something is
wrong with him, and this is so out of character

I'm afraid something is wrong with him-- not that
you're not completely desirable--

TALIESIN: That's all I needed to hear; go on.

LAURA: But he needs a good night's sleep and I'm
afraid he won't get it in this.

TALIESIN: All right.

LAURA: I'm going to try Lesser Restoration on him.
I'm not sure if it'll work.

TALIESIN: In case this is magical, I just want to leave
you with something.

(laughter)

LAURA: In case it's not, don't do that anymore.

MATT: All right. You extend your hand. You
complete the incantation under your breath and

begrudgingly administer a Lesser Restoration spell
onto his body. You watch as his gnomish form

suddenly flashes with a brief burst of divine
energy, and as it subsides, his eyes blink and

stare back to Percival with the same longing lust
that he had when he entered the room.

LAURA: Well, fuck. I got nothing. Scanlan!
Seriously, this is not acceptable. Go to bed! If

we let you out of this cage, will you go to bed?

SAM: (muffled agreement)

LAURA: I'm going to send Trinket to your room with
you, and he's going to sleep on top of you so that

you will go to sleep.

SAM: (muffled agreement)

LAURA: Yeah, let's do that.

TALIESIN: Manners. (click)

MATT: All right. It unlatches itself and reforms
into the iron ball that you carry at your side.

Scanlan, as you fall the ground, clasping the floor
with your hands and knees, breathing heavily,

still the warmth subsiding from the slight touch
that you received at Percival's fingertips. Based

on the time you spent drinking, conversing,
scattering to your rooms, getting dressed and

making sure you were properly prepared for this
endeavor, making your way through the tunnels

stealthing in at this moment, it's right about now
that the phial wears off.

SAM: Ha ha! Just a birthday prank. Is it your
birthday?

LAURA and TALIESIN: No.

SAM: Oh, got the date wrong. (retching) I need to
change. I have jizzed in my pants.

(laughter)

SAM: I'm sorry.

TALIESIN: Too much information. Thank you.

SAM: Have a good evening.

TALIESIN: Good evening. Do you walk out the main
door?

SAM: The main door.

TALIESIN: Okay, so you do in fact trigger a
bucket.

(laughter)

TALIESIN: With a viscous powder that I mixed up.
It's basically a flour base. It's going to be a

real pain to wash off.

MATT: You're a ghost-white, bucket-headed gnome in
a silk g-string.

LAURA: Why? Why did you do it?

SAM: For the lulz?

(laughter)

SAM: I don't know. I'll see you in the morning.

TALIESIN: I'm going to block the secret passage.
I'm going to shift some furniture.

LIAM: By the way, when everyone asks me tomorrow
on social media why I did it, same answer.

TALIESIN: This was good. Well done, you.

MATT: After some disconcerting conversation
between the married couple and a shameful walk

back to your own chambers, you eventually find
yourself coming to rest for the evening. After a

full night's sleep, you find yourself with your
spells restored, your hit points restored, half

your hit dice restored, and an embarrassing
morning breakfast before you. As you all come down

to a fine vegan breakfast meal there on the table,
you all have conversation, start plotting and

planning, and you hear the gentle footsteps of one
slowly approaching Scanlan to the breakfast

table.

LAURA: Oh, hey.

SAM: (husky) Hey. (clears throat) Didn't sleep a
lot. Sorry. Hey, Percy.

TALIESIN: Hi.

MARISHA: What distributor do you get your wine
from? Just curious.

SAM: I don't want to talk about it.

LAURA: So, Vasselheim?

TALIESIN: Yep.

MATT: All right, so finishing your meals. What do
you guys want to do? You're going to Vasselheim.

How are you doing that?

MARISHA: Okay. Do we have a plan before we get
there? Before I teleport us into the middle of a

city that might possibly be in the middle of a war
zone?

LIAM: Why don't I go see how much progress he's
made? And I stick my skull out the door again and

see how far he's gotten.

MATT: Okay. Make a perception check.

LIAM: Very good. 30.

MATT: Okay. Listening to your senses and focusing
on the direction, still traveling. Still

relatively slow pace, as far as the general
distance, but it's making headway. It's traveled

throughout the night a number of miles.

TALIESIN: We should at least prepare Vasselheim,
then.

TRAVIS: Yeah. He hasn't obviously gotten there,
right?

TALIESIN: If a wrath of a dark god is on its way,
they should probably prepare themselves.

MARISHA: Also, I'm assuming he's traveling with an
army.

TALIESIN: We would assume. With one eye each.

LAURA: Oh god. What if Vasselheim is a show of
power?

TALIESIN: That would be likely.

SAM: Let's hurry.

TRAVIS: Where to in Vasselheim?

MARISHA: How long would it take us to get out? Oh,
wait. We chartered that boat; do we care about

those people?

TALIESIN: Wow.

MARISHA: Or are we just going to leave them in the
middle of the ocean?

LAURA: They were only going to wait for us a
couple of days, and then they were going to head back.

LIAM: Yeah, they would assume we drowned.

MARISHA: Okay, fair argument.

MATT: Yeah, you gather that probably when they
drove a bunch of yahoos out in the middle of the

ocean to dive under a volcano in the ocean that
they did not expect you to return.

MARISHA: We did put a 500 gold holding deposit on,
an incidental that we will not get back.

LAURA: I think the destruction of the world may be
more important than 500 gold.

(shocked noises)

LAURA: I know.

SAM: Quick, cast Lesser Restoration on yourself!

MARISHA: It would probably take us a while to get
up and out to a tree, right? I'm being a little

selfish with my upper-level spells.

TALIESIN: No, I feel it.

TRAVIS: Up and out to it. Up the volcano, up the
water--

MARISHA: Okay, you know what? Don't worry about
it, let's go. Let's just Plane Shift.

MATT: That's an arduous journey back to any
possible tree.

TRAVIS: Wanted to talk that one out.

MARISHA: Yeah. I Plane Shift us to Vasselheim.

MATT: All right, so you Plane Shift to Vasselheim.
As you guys encircle your hands once more,

Keyleth, you focus on whereabouts in Vasselheim?

TRAVIS: The Trial Forge?

LAURA: Or Melora's tree maybe?

(laughter and applause)

SAM: Residual magic.

TRAVIS, SAM, and TALIESIN: Trial Forge?

MARISHA: Where will you not get arrested?

TRAVIS: No one's going to even notice me. Yeah,
they were ringing the bells and running around and

getting prepared and stuff. Yeah, and if for some
reason, somebody's like, "That guy punched me in

"the face," we'll just punch them.

TALIESIN: I agree with this plan.

MARISHA: Trial Forge.

MATT: All right. With that, you close your eyes.
Beneath your breath, you recite the incantation.

With that, you feel your body suddenly sucked into
a dark void and thrust through the absence of

space. And within a moment's time, before you can
adjust to the sudden cold and dark vacuous void

around you, your feet hit hard ground, your eyes
focus again to the light, and you glance around

and the center streets, not actually directly at
the Trial Forge-- ooh, we got music, finally. In

the streets around the Braving Grounds, you can
see the smokestacks from the Trial Forge over the

distance. You also notice that the sky above you
is deep, dark gray clouds. It's as if there is a

perpetual eclipse placed upon this ground. You
look around in all directions, and you see this

roiling gray cloud cluster that encompasses the
entirety of the sky above you, which should be

mid-morning or midday. It's blotted out by the
storm-- rainfall is absent-- and you see flashes

of light, occasionally framing strange shapes
and clouds. Whether by illusion or by a trick of

your mind, you swear you see shifting darkness and
forms, images in the clouds: giant faces silently

screaming, hundreds of feet across, that extend and
push out of the clouds and draw back into the sky.

Massive hands that push against them, only to
slowly recede moments later. You blink and they're

gone, leaving you unsettled regardless and
uncertain as to whether or not that was just you

or if everyone can see this.

As your focus shifts from the sky above, you look
around and you can see Bastions are stationed all

across the perimeter walls of Vasselheim. You see
large ballistae mounted and armed as watchers

scour the distant horizon on all sides looking for
any sign of something in the distance making its

way towards the city, based on the warning you
previously gave. Unlit beacons sit at every major

structure and juncture of the stone walls,
awaiting the burning sign that an assault is

spotted. Militia and armored guard move with haste
to stations across the city quarters. You can feel

the air of war permeating the streets.

The streets are far emptier than you recall, the
stragglers returning to their homes with carts

full of rations, produce, and weapons. Fear grips
their face as they pass by. You glance off to your

left, and you can see a wiry old man in the
corner, his tangled silver and blond hair

bouncing with fervor, as he shouts out, "The
reckoning of our opulence has come! The gods are

"away and the price of our hubris comes to consume
us." But no one's paying him mind. His tattered

bones jangling his knees across each other, as he
makes his way through the streets, his face a

glance of utter despair.

You notice an argument between two Bastions and a
middle-aged bearded man who is painting a familiar

symbol on his front door, not too far from where
you stand. A five-year-old girl cries and clings

to his leg. What do you do?

TALIESIN: What is the symbol?

MATT: Make a perception check.

TALIESIN: I'll make a perception check. Let's see
if you'll roll a one again. No, that's much

better. 28.

MATT: Glancing at this distance, you see a
familiar and striking shape. It is a haphazardly

drawn circle with dark, reddish purple paint and
a small line and a pronged fork of four prongs

painted up against this wall.

MARISHA: Oh, hell no.

LAURA: He's painting it on the door? The guy in
the city is?

MATT: The father figure.

LIAM: Yeah. It could be to pass over their house.

TALIESIN: Yes.

MARISHA: Pass over?

LAURA: That's the Vecna symbol, right?

MATT: Sensing the distance of Vecna, he's still
far to the northwest of here. But what was once a

few hundred miles is now shortened, about two
hundred or so, and getting lesser and lesser.

LAURA: Fuck. Should we go up and talk to that
guy?

MARISHA: Maybe one of us. Maybe not all of us.

LAURA: You there.

MATT: As you make the shout, you see the soldiers
are currently arguing with him. One says, "You

"welcome this rubbish? Are you one of them kook
believers?"

And the father is angrily staring in his face and
says, "You mind your business. I have no love for

"this, but if these dreams are true, I must protect
my family."

LAURA: Dreams?

MATT: They turn and look at you as you approach.

LAURA: What dreams?

MATT: The soldiers take a step back with a look of
recognition across you as you step forward with

your white dragon scale armor. They know not to
approach and there is seemingly a sense of knowing

who you are, at least from the legends that are
told amongst the streets of Vasselheim. The father

turns to you and seeing your lordly approach, and
strong voice, immediately. "The nightmares I've

"had, and I'm not the first. This symbol. It scares
me, but if something comes like they say it is, I

"must it let it know we have no quarrel. To
leave my family be."

LAURA: This symbol will not protect you.

MATT: "How do you know this?"

LAURA: Because I know his followers. They won't
have mercy. They'll gouge out eyes, remove your

hand, and make you one of them.

MATT: Make a persuasion check, please.

LAURA: Okay. Hold on. 17?

MATT: Okay, he looks at you for a moment, his eyes
keen with fear, and his face. "You're certain of

"this, my lady?"

LAURA: Yes.

MATT: "Will you protect us, then?"

LAURA: We'll do our best. That's what we're here
for.

MATT: He looks past you, the rest of your
companions, all looking well-armed and definitely

capable. Looks down and rubs the hair of his
little girl, her sandy blonde hair curled up and a

bit dirtied. Looking down from her gaze, up to
you, he says, "Then I trust you." He takes the

tattered paintbrush he was using and smears across
the symbol, destroying it.

(applause)

LAURA: Dear god, I hope that works.

MATT: He goes inside with his daughter. Before he
closes the door: "Thank you. Please, help." Pulls

the rest of the cart in and closes the door behind
with a slam.

The two guards awkwardly look at each other and
back to you. "Thank you."

(laughter)

MATT: "Be safe." And they both wander off.

LAURA: I don't think they noticed you, Grog.

TRAVIS: Man, I'm fucking slick.

MATT: Knowing the location, you're not that far
from the Quadroads juncture between the different

areas. You can go further towards the Trial Forge
or back towards the center of where the Quadroads

meets between that and where the Platinum
Sanctuary and Platinum Dragon section is. There is

the temple to Sarenrae, where you left Pike
previously. What do you wish to do?

MARISHA: Is the crazy zealot still running
around?

MATT: Yeah. He seems to be scattered through the
streets. He's maybe 60 feet away, still shouting

obscenities and weird doom-saying prophecies.

MARISHA: I walk up to him.

MATT: Okay. As he's shouting this time, "He will
come! He will destroy us! You! He will destroy

"you, too! I've seen it! I've seen it."

MARISHA: Yeah. I believe you. I've seen it, too.

MATT: "Good! Then save yourself! Run! Run far!"

MARISHA: Wait. How did he talk to you?

MATT: "In my mind. In my dreams. He comes. He says
it's inevitable. The clouds, they come as the

"first warning. The first seal broken. The sky has
already left us. The sun is gone!"

MARISHA: Okay. Yeah, no. Accurate.

MATT: "Beware the Undying King!" And he goes to
run off, away.

LAURA: Is he already gone?

MATT: He's running away.

MARISHA: Man, I don't know how to deal with that
type of abrasive personality.

LAURA: Maybe it's best to not let people give him
power, because the more people believe in him, the

stronger of a god he becomes.

MARISHA: But that guy resisted. He knew when
others didn't. And he was crazy.

LAURA: Could you maybe make the sun reappear?

MARISHA: I don't know. Can I do a nature check to
see if this is above my capabilities?

MATT: It's definitely an unnatural form of weather
pattern. You get the sense that this is itself a

minor miracle.

MARISHA: A minor miracle?

MATT: Well, yeah. The sky that stretches beyond
all sides of the horizon is of similar strange,

roiling cloud doom.

LAURA: Is it like Ghostbusters?

MATT: It's very similar, yeah. We're talking top
of the tower, curling ink clouds out to each side,

traveling with vast speed in almost all
directions. You see no plain, single path in which

they're traveling. They're emanating.

MARISHA: This seems like a minor miracle.

LAURA: Yeah. Can you miracle more?

MARISHA: I could maybe try to carve out a patch of
sunlight above us, but I don't think it would be

anything more than a morale boost, at this point.

TALIESIN: If we did it at a temple, perhaps.

LAURA: Maybe above the Sarenrae temple.

LIAM: He's bearing down on us. We need to tell
Pike. We need to warn the authorities. We need to

tell the Temple of Bahamut, the Slayer's Take.

MARISHA: We have to keep people from defecting to
him. The more people that he has, the more of his

symbols that get spread around out of fear, the
more he'll win.

TRAVIS: Right, but we can only either spread the
word that we're going to resist or spread the word

that it's about time to fight. We can only do one
or the other.

LIAM: He's coming, one way or another.

MARISHA: I turn to one of the guards of
Vasselheim.

MATT: One of them's rushing past. He has a cluster
of spears under one arm.

MARISHA: Sir!

MATT: "Yes?"

MARISHA: If there was a universal sign of
Vasselheim, a symbol of Vasselheim, or a sign to

fight, what would it be?

(laughter)

MATT: "There is no universal symbol. There are
many symbols in Vasselheim. All the various

"divinities that lie here have their own symbol."

MARISHA: Okay. I didn't know if there was like a
rally or cry or something that you all universally

believed in. There's got to be something, a symbol
of Vasselheim.

MATT: "Vasselheim is a divided and united city as
one."

MARISHA: All right, you know what? Never mind!
Jeez, your politics.

MATT: He gives a strange glint of a glare towards
your larger goliath friend. Right as he begins to

squint, you hear a voice in the distance go,
"Lieutenant, we need you!"

"Right away." And he rushes off with spears under
his arm.

MARISHA: Thanks, Lieutenant, for nothing. Okay,
maybe some sort of sign will help them.

TALIESIN: If we're going to make a sun appear--

LAURA: Let's do it at the temple of Sarenrae or
the temple of Pelor.

MARISHA: All right, we go to the temple of
Sarenrae!

MATT: You make your way to the temple. You enter
the interior, and you can see most everyone is in

silent prayer. They're all either holding hands or
clutching close their smaller kin, these renewed

worshippers of the Everlight. Glancing around, you
don't see Pike currently in the vicinity. All you

see is one of the head priests, Coraline, who's
currently off to the side is tending to a few of

the folks from the interior.

LIAM: (shouting) Pike?

MATT: Coraline looks over and sees you guys enter.
"Oh!" Rushes up to you. "I'm sorry, she's not

"here, she went to the Platinum Sanctuary.
Apparently, there's a discussion, a meeting of

"some kind."

MARISHA: Right now?

MATT: "Right now. She left not but an hour ago."

MARISHA: Okay, go!

LIAM: Thank you.

MATT: "Of course."

(laughter)

MATT: Walking up the endless stair along the side of
the mountain that signifies the northern end of

Vasselheim, you see small units of silver and blue
armored warriors of the Platinum Dragon descend

past you, rushing and giving you a sidelong glance
as they do. A nod of recognition as some of them

recognize you upon your approach.

Eventually, through an exhausting ascent and
seeing the clouds growing darker and darker, you

begin to see that there is, from this vantage
point, a very slight shift in their direction.

They seem to be coming from the northwest.

You eventually reach the base of the massive
pillars that mark the stronghold's entrance, where

you've been a number of times before. You
immediately notice a crowd of mixed attire. You

see Scalebearers standing tensely along various
Bastion members. You see warriors of the Dawn Fist

in their gold and red robes. And you see soldiers
of brass and sapphire: the Hand of Ord is here, as

well. Now, upon approaching the guards. The guards
at the front gate see you and expectantly signify

for the gates to open with a shifting (thudding).
The two large marble doorways open inside, just

enough for you to pass within.

You enter the central chambers, the inner sanctum
of the Platinum Sanctuary, where the marble halls

lead to the familiar circular forum chambers where
you last met with the Highbearer Vord, the

Silver-Touched, who stands there before you, among
his guard, in heated discussion. The room is

lively with representatives of each temple
clustered behind their highest lord. The red-robed

Dawn Fist of Kord flank Earthbreaker Groon.
Philosophers gather near Holy Curator Curtis Uleas

of the Quadroads of Erathis. The Gladekeepers of
the Birthheart stand behind the High Hierophant

Ophera, while the dark-veiled maidens of the Raven
Queen gather, leaderless, as is their order. Pike

stands at the edge of the council, trying to
listen in, before seeing you and rushing to your

side. (panting) "Hi!"

TRAVIS: Pike!

MATT: She rushes in and gives a few quick hugs.
"Did it work? Did you do it?"

TRAVIS: Yeah! (whispering) We got the stuff.

LAURA: (whispering) We made them!

MATT: "Good. Things are a bit tense." And as she
turns, you see now at the back of the council,

towering over most others and without armed
support stands the dark-skinned, beautiful J'mon

Sa Ord, their simple clothing swathed in a loose
hanging robe of gold and sky blue. J'mon's

smoldering pupils shift in your direction, and
they give you a nod of respect. The discussions

halt as you approach, recognition also falling
across the room. At which point, the Highbearer

Vord turns to you saying, "Vox Machina, with a gift
of timing. Have you anything to aid in this crisis?"

LAURA: Like, so much.

MATT: "Then please, take the center of the
chambers. I believe everyone here could use some

"form of good news." He steps back, and as the rest
of the guards empty, they open the central space

of the chamber for you to approach.

TALIESIN: Well, technically we've already been
observable, so there's very little that we can say

that he doesn't already know.

LAURA: He's listening right now.

LIAM: How much do you know already?

MATT: "We have only taken a bit from what your
companion here, Pike of the Everlight, has said.

"You went off to a volcano?"

TRAVIS: Scaldseat.

MARISHA: And we defeated it!

MATT: "You defeated a volcano?"

TRAVIS: No.

MARISHA: Kind of.

LAURA: Look, I'm sure you've realized by this
point that Vecna has ascended to godhood.

MATT: As he begins to speak, immediately the High
Hierophant Ophera steps forward. "Yes, the dreams

"have spread. We've seen and spoken with the
clerics all across this land, and it seems that a

"new force has shoved its way amongst the rest of
the pantheon, though apparently closer."

LAURA: He's not reached his full power yet. The
only way it will happen is if he claims a great

use of power.

MARISHA: Yeah, performs a miracle. He needs
followers.

LAURA: He's on his way here. The more followers he
has, the more power he has.

MATT: At that, when you say, "he's on his way
here," you watch as Groon steps forward, arms

still crossed. "How do you know he's coming?"

MARISHA: (stammers) Just look outside.

TRAVIS: Keyleth, hey, whoa. Take it down.

SAM: We don't need the sass.

MARISHA: But I'm not sassing!

TRAVIS: With respect, there are those among us
that can tell where he is moving.

LAURA: Yeah.

LIAM: I am the paladin of the Raven Queen.

MATT: At which point two of the maidens behind you
say in unison together, "That he is, and the

"visions we've seen, as well. The pretender god.
His words, channeled through prayers, speak of a

"new terror, a vile tyrant unchecked. Believe him.
His words are that of our lady." And both of them

step back once more.

MARISHA: Have you met them before?

MATT: They said it in unison.

MARISHA: Are you friends? Are you on the same
mailing list?

LIAM: They all look similar.

LAURA: So yeah, he's got this ability.

LIAM: She has granted me knowledge of his
whereabouts, and he is coming fast.

MATT: Vord now speaks up from behind. "Good, then
let us gather our resources. The esteemed J'mon Sa

"Ord has agreed to lend aid and resources to our
defense."

At which point, J'mon speaks up. "This threat
stretches beyond the borders of Issylra. The

"clouds darken even our desert skies. If this
specter of the Age of Arcanum has indeed ascended,

"as the clerics here are convinced, then it is a
threat that we of Ank'Harel cannot ignore."

Vord then turns his head frustratingly to the east
and says, "And King Bertrand Dwendal has declined

"aid, claiming that until this rumored scourge
arrives on Dwendalian soil, it is of no interest

"to the crown of Wildemount. No resources can be
spared chasing whispers. We have sent out scouting

"parties, however. As you've said, this threat
seems to be coming from the northwest, last you

"came through. And wyvern riders are seeking the
location of this Thar Amphala."

At which point, there's a flash of blue arcane
energy in the back of the room. Everyone turns;

the guards have their weapons drawn out ready. And
you spin to see a familiar blonde-haired mage with

braids on the side--

(cheering)

MATT: A bit out of breath, and in the same flash
behind, a golden-armored halfling of sun-kissed

skin and long, golden, curling hair. Large weapon
dragging behind. Allura then, hand up in

resignation, staff to the side. "We are merely
here to offer counsel and communication. We mean

"no harm, nor to bring our arcane knowledge to your
quarters, and I apologize, but extenuating

"circumstances require strange bedfellows, I think
you will agree. However, at the first sight of

"threat upon Tal'Dorei, understand that we will
seek your assistance with haste, as well. Emon and

"the council cannot survive another catastrophe, so
we are here to behest and ask only you're ready to

"return depending on when or where this assault
strikes."

There's a bit of muttering amongst the crowd and
some grumbling. Highbearer Vord nods. "We are in

"need of aid and as many friends as we can gather.
You are welcome, Arcanist Vysoren."

LAURA: Allura, does the sky look like this in
Emon?

MATT: "It, in the past 12 hours or so, has
stretched across the Ozmit Sea and now seeks to

"consume as far as the east coast of Tal'Dorei. If
this is what I believe it is, within the next

"half-to-full day the entirety of Exandria will be
under the shaded sky of Vecna."

SAM: Well, maybe the miracle thing is just the
change in weather, and we'll be okay.

(laughter)

SAM: Not all miracles have to be deadly.

MATT: "Very well. Will you be there fighting with
our armies, in the front line?"

TRAVIS: We will. I guess my only question is: do
we wait for him to come to us, or do we try to

take the fight to him?

MATT: "I do not wish to fight him where he expects
it. As we are a city that has prided itself on its

"impenetrable defenses, I can guarantee you that
this entity has seemingly procured, or cleverly

"divined, some way of breaching. I gather he would
expect less us bringing it to him. We hoped to

"have information on the whereabouts of this city
directly. What else do we have?"

LAURA: We have the knowledge that we can't take
him by surprise.

MATT: "What do you mean?"

LAURA: He sees everything.

TALIESIN: He hears everything.

TRAVIS: Yeah, he's been spying on us for quite
some time now, little shit.

MARISHA: I wouldn't be surprised if there is a spy
in this room.

TALIESIN: Or at least an open ear.

MARISHA: You have citizens of your city that are
starting to paint his symbol on their doors out of

fear. This is the last thing you want in the
middle of this crisis. All time spent with any

volunteer hands need to be from any spare clerics
who can help calm the minds of the afraid.

MATT: He looks out amongst the rest of the crowd
that has gathered here in the center inner

sanctum. "Her words speak true. If he's indeed
seeking to undermine the worship of this city, and

"as such break the defenses of our great creators,
then we need whatever strength your temples have

"here, calming the people of Vasselheim and beyond.
If you think he sees all--"

TALIESIN: I think he sees this city as a ripe
audience.

MATT: At this point, you watch as Vord steps
forward, fiddling with one finger. "Long ago, this

"grand temple nearly fell to the prying minds of
terrible mages. This here," and he pulls a ring

from his finger, "is called the Band of Shrouds, a
powerful implement of the Highbearer to shunt

"these prying magics aside. I lend it to you for
the coming struggle." And he passes it over to

Vex'ahlia.

LAURA: Yes!

MATT: "Kept close enough to the one who wears this
ring, I doubt even his newly born eyes could

"pierce it. However, it can only affect those
nearby, so if you are to strike, perhaps it's best

"you do so away from his vision, and we distract."

LAURA: So he can't hear us right now?

MATT: Everyone in the room takes a few steps
closer to you.

(laughter)

MATT: "Within this chamber, it seems so, yes."

LAURA: (sighs) It feels so good!

LIAM: I think that would look better on your
middle finger, darling.

LAURA: Oh, good call.

MATT: At which point the doors in the back of the
chamber burst open once more, and you watch as two

armored figures come rushing up out of breath.
(panting) You see as these two wyvern riders,

recognizing their armor with the horns and the
large dragon-like build of their armor and

headpiece, looking damaged and splashed with
crimson, come charging in. One of them, the helmet

is removed and you see a young man shouting
through his wounded breaths. "Highbearer! Rider

"Ephatus, with Rider Marley, returning from beyond
Moldire and the Tordusk pass. We found the Dark City."

Everyone immediately begins to mutter beneath
their breath. The voices begin to rise as the

Highbearer puts his hand out to hush them. "It
lies within a valley a few miles into the Zenwick

"Mountains. Our team attempted to infiltrate, but
an unseeable barrier protects the city grounds

"from all sides. We found ourselves overrun by
errant magics and winged beasts of shadow and

"hunger. Only Marley and myself survived. We were
only a scouting regiment!"

At which point, the High Hierophant steps forward.
"Zenwick, of all places. Curious indeed."

The Highbearer turns again. "Very well, if this is
true, we must mobilize our forces very quickly."

Groon steps forward once more. "We can push our
ground troops along the Glasswalk Road, towards

"the range."

Allura steps forward to join the conversation. "If
we can choose some elite select numbers for an

"onsite assault, I can transport them."

At which point the Curator Curtis steps in.
"You'll do nothing of the kind! It is arcane

"perversions that enabled this madman, and we will
not allow--"

Ophera steps forward, putting her hand in front of
his face now, saying, "We have druids who are

"familiar with the woods surrounding the base of
the Zenwick Mountains. We could transport you to

"those trees, a number of you, for an initial
assault while the rest of our ground forces

"assemble northward."

At which point, the wounded rider speaks up,
loudly. "I am not done! My apologies. Only Marley

"and myself survived with one of our wyverns. As we
fled over the nearest mountaintop as fast as we

"could, Marley saw--"

And the other one takes her helmet off, and you
can see caked with blood, one eye swollen shut and

a giant wound across the face. "I saw the city
move, part of it. It moved, I swear it. I heard a

"rumble over the winds, looked past and back over
our shoulders, and I saw the city begin to rise."

Silence takes the room. I would like any of you
with a fair amount of history to make a history check.

TALIESIN: What's a fair amount?

MATT: If you feel confident in your ability to
understand history. I would say putting it this

way, those who have researched the lands that
would probably be Percival and Scanlan.

TALIESIN: Okay.

SAM: 27!

TALIESIN: 21.

MATT: 27? Okay! I'll make part of this a whisper.

LAURA: Wait, you'll make what? I didn't hear it!

SAM: A live whisper.

MATT: There are two places in the Zenwick
Mountains that would be of any interest, or

historical lore-based elements. There is the
Crypts of Thomara: it's a subterranean vault city,

built around a precious metal vein cluster by the
xenophobic dwarven Thomara clan in the early years

of the Age of Arcana. It's said a terrible madness
fed into their greed, leading to eventual

cannibalism and collapse of the society thousands
of years ago. It's now considered cursed and is

largely avoided. The other location is known as
the Silted Veil, a small, cold valley within the

mountains that is comprised of ice-dusted, mineral-rich
mud that was once rumored to carry natural

healing properties when applied to wounds and
restorative elements to aged skin. However, a

large variety of dangerous creatures also
discovered these features over time and moved into

the valley, taking over and establishing a new
violent ecosystem based around the soothing muck.

Scanlan.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: Hey guys, so those t-shirts--

(laughter)

LAURA: Very true. There is Critical Role live Vox
Machina t-shirts.

MARISHA: Okay so the Crypts of (stumbles over
words) Tholmeer? Crypts of Tholmayer and the

Silted Veil.

LAURA: Silted Veil and the Crypts of Tholmura?

MARISHA: Yeah, which are the two places in the
Zenwick Mountains?

LAURA: And one is icy valley, the other one is,
what, zombie dwarves?

MARISHA: Yeah.

TALIESIN: Cannibal zombie dwarves.

MARISHA: Angry icy terrain or cannibal zombie
dwarves.

LAURA: Okay.

MATT: At this information, Vord nods. "Well, all
forces on high for impending attack here, wyvern

"riders and air units, we need eyes on the Tordusk
Pass, in case the city is indeed moving as they

"say. The High Hierophant will aid in transporting
advanced scouts to the base of the Zenwicks. We

"would wish you be part of this if you are willing
and able. Gathering information and seeking

"weakness to exploit are the key. Vox Machina, you
are our focused stealth strike force into Thar

"Amphala."

LAURA: Yeah! We're mostly really good at that.

MATT: "If you indeed carry the boons that your
lady Pike has mentioned, then we need to keep

Vecna and his force occupied to grant you entry.
And we can do that. I certainly hope with the

strength of our numbers that there is no way that
he can see them coming.

From the distant end of the central chamber here,
a familiar voice echoes throughout the hallway.

"Oh, but I do, wyrm groveler."

SAM: But the ring, man! We just got the ring!

MATT: You haven't attuned to it yet.

LAURA: Fuck!

MATT: And with that, we're going to go ahead and
take our break.

(cheering)

LAURA: Come on!

MARISHA: What all did we say?

TALIESIN: What didn't we say?

LAURA: Shit!

LIAM: What a piece of shit!

MATT: We'll take our break here. We'll return at
that moment here in a number of minutes.

SAM: Ten minutes? 15 minutes? What are we doing?

MATT: You'll know when the lights start going.
We'll have people out there who'll let you know.

It won't be too terribly long, we need to get a
bathroom break and stuff. Anyway, be back here in

a little bit, guys, we'll see you for the next
portion of our journey this evening.

[break]

LAURA: Fucked up because it's Trinket. It's a
Trinket cape. Yeah, but thank you. It's gorgeous.

TRAVIS: Really? Right now?

MARISHA: I'm rolling with someone's lucky die that
I got delivered.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: Gets a little hot!

LAURA: Yeah, it's warm. I'm already very warm.

TALIESIN: It's a little cold up here. That's
okay.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: We love you guys!

TALIESIN: There they are.

(laughter)

TALIESIN: Oh my god.

TRAVIS: We're missing one.

SAM: Who are we missing? Why? She was just here
with a bear.

TRAVIS: She's a moron!

SAM: Guys, thanks for coming to the show.

TALIESIN and MARISHA: Yeah!

MARISHA: Hey, Matt, was there a winner?

AUDIENCE MEMBER: We love you, Sam!

SAM: I love Percy!

(laughter)

TALIESIN: Yeah, that's not over yet.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: Where's Larkin?

TALIESIN: Larkin is in the hearts and minds of
children.

MATT: Are we up and running?

TALIESIN: Are we going?

MATT: Are we on the internet?

MARISHA: Who's getting proposed to? All of us?!

LAURA: No, I think it was to Liam.

SAM: We need Brian Foster to come out here and
talk for 20 minutes and get the crowd hyped

again.

MATT: Yeah.

(cheering)

SAM: That'll work; that's fine.

MATT: That'll do! All righty, looking in the back
booth, are we good? Are we online? Perfect. Welcome

back, everyone.

So as the inner sanctum chambers of the Platinum
Sanctuary stood silent at the recent arrival of

the vision of Vecna, hovering but two feet off the
ground in all his lich-like glory. His toothy grin

is immense, threatening to crack the sides of his
face. As gasps fill the chamber, armored warriors

thrust spear and blade towards his illusory body,
arrows and spells passing through harmlessly and

clattering, and splashing, exploding against
distant pillars across the room.

The smoke subsides and he stands there untouched.
"Quite the tea party you've gathered here, Vord. I

"suppose celebration is in order. After all, you
missed my re-birthday. I have something to show

"you that I'm quite excited about. Don't rush the
surprise, friends. I'll bring it to you; do not

"fret. You're all gathered here in one place. It
would be a perfect place for an ambush, wouldn't

"you say? But where's the fun in that, when there
are so many less-protected loved ones to send my

"shadows to?

"Your daughter Desir, Earthbreaker, trains alone
at the Bozon Caves. An easy target. Vord of the

"Platinum Dragon, your family lies behind the
double-sealed doors of your estate. I know of your

"secret cellar entrance. The great protector of
Marquet's jewel is away, and your studious

"concubines are left without their guard. Not to
mention all of Whitestone, or Cassandra. Young

"Velora Vessar now plays with her owlbear doll, all
alone in her room."

At this point, Allura shouts at the top of her
lungs, "That's enough!" And with a wave of her

hand, dispels the illusion with a flash of energy,
causing it to fade, leaving only the lingering

omnipresent sound of Vecna's chilling chuckle.
(chuckles) Then silence takes the room.

LAURA: Vord, does this need to be attuned?

(laughter)

MATT: "It does."

(laughter)

MARISHA: Why would you take it off?!

MATT: "I was gifting it to you, I didn't realize
he was going to show up in my sanctum!"

LAURA: It's okay. I'm going to sit down. Keep
talking. I'm going to try to attune while that's

happening.

MATT: Ophera steps forward. "It's a distraction, a
bluff. We're close, and he knows it."

Vord then turns to her and says, "I will not
abandon my family. Vecna knows too much, we have

"no more time. Those who are primed for assault, it
begins now. Vox Machina, how do you wish to

"proceed?"

LAURA: Well, we can't tell you!

TALIESIN: I think we proceed by taking a 15-minute
nap, really, at this point.

MARISHA: What? Wait, did you make a decree and
then turn to us and say, "What's your plan?"

MATT: "Yes."

(laughter)

MATT: "You think I haven't heard tales of your
chaotic battle strategies? I cannot attempt to

"ascertain the nature of how you've survived the
trials you have, so I leave that entirely up to

"you. The rest we can handle, organize and
strategize."

LAURA: You do that.

MATT: As you take a moment and rest, the rest of
the individuals there begin to talk amongst

themselves. The other leaders begin to set their
clerics and warriors, sending out orders to the

various temples across all of Vasselheim and
beyond to prepare themselves, some for the defense

of the city, and some to make their way northward
to wherever Thar Amphala will be found, head on.

While this happens, and you're currently attuning
to this ring--

LAURA: I'm un-attuning the Bracers of Archery in
order to attune to this ring.

MATT: Okay, you're removing the Bracers of Archery
and you're attuning to the ring. That's two less

damage on your ranged attacks.

LAURA: Do you have a card that I can see?

MARISHA: She wants that paper!

LAURA: I want that paper!

MATT: The ring card is in my hotel room, but you
will have it next week. But essentially what it

does, while it's attuned to you and on you, within
60 feet of you at all times, divination magic is

inert and cancelled.

LAURA: And what's the name of it, exactly?

MATT: It is called the Band of Shrouds.

MARISHA: Also, the hotel printer was broken.

MATT: Even getting my sheets printed out for this
game has been a whole ordeal. Thank you, Dani! As

this is happening and you guys are amongst
yourselves figuring out what to do, and the rest

of the crowd is murmuring, you hear the footfalls,
another, another, another, the approach of J'mon

Sa Ord. "My warriors defend this city, but my
strength also lies in the front lines. If a

"distraction is what you need to succeed, there are
few things as distracting as a shining dragon. I

"will fly with the wyverns once Vox Machina has
been delivered, and the delivery shall be upon the

"wings I bear, if you'll have me."

(cheering)

LAURA: Dracarys!

MATT: And they give a bow and a nod.

LAURA: Has it been long enough that it's attuned?

MATT: Not yet, no. The rest of the people are
gathering about. You guys are, for the moment,

focused inward. Pike's there with you. There is a
tension being passed around, but right now they're

letting you strategize before you bring what you
have to the table. Right now, they have nothing

until you have a strategy.

SAM: We know of two places to go to up near the
something mountains. Zenwick Mountains?

LAURA: I don't want to talk about it for a little
more time.

SAM: Sure, we'll definitely stay here, then.
Definitely be here the whole time.

MARISHA: You know what? We should go shopping!

TRAVIS: No, fuck that! We are not shopping! I'll
quit! I'll leave.

MARISHA: No, Grog! No!

LAURA: Maybe we should just give up.

TRAVIS: What is wrong with you?! First shopping,
and now we give up. What the fuck?!

LAURA: No, you know what? Vecna's right. I'm
really worried about our family. We should all

split up and go be with our families right now.

MARISHA: And maybe we should convert. I should
just stab myself in the eye right now.

LAURA: Maybe you should! Maybe we will! Let's do
it.

MARISHA: Let's do that.

LIAM: Be priests of Vecna.

MARISHA and SAM: Praise Vecna.

TRAVIS: (shouting) What. The. Fuck?!

(laughter)

TRAVIS: Take it back. Now.

LIAM: No, I think that's a good idea. (sizzling)
And I start pushing Whisper slowly.

LAURA: No! Okay, seriously, that's too far. It's
too far, don't. I don't like it.

SAM: Don't worry, he can't be killed. Just like
all of us can't be killed.

TRAVIS: J'mon, I'm coming with you. These people
have lost their fucking minds.

MATT: "Do not worry, Grog. Be patient. I think
there is more to their words than you are-- sit

"down." For the sake of brevity, as everyone is
cautiously waiting for the ring's attunement,

eventually you feel the energy click as the ring
has been slipped on for this time. You feel

this slight shimmer of cold wash through your body
and extend outward. At which point, you know the

ring has finally been attuned.

SAM: All right, we can talk freely.

LIAM: Show it to us. How does it look?

LAURA: It looks fucking good.

TALIESIN: It looks quite nice.

LAURA: It looks great, Grog.

TRAVIS: Yeah, quitter.

LAURA: Okay. Fuck Vecna; we're not for Vecna.
Yeah. I know! Change of heart. So we have two

options, right? What were you saying, Scanlan?

SAM: The Crypts of Fomora or the Silted Bale.

LAURA: The Stilted Bale?

SAM: The Silted Bale.

MATT: Veil. It's a Veil.

MARISHA: Silted Veil and the Crypts of Thromora.

SAM: Fomora.

MARISHA: Fromora?

SAM: Sure. We know a general sense of where we're
going.

LAURA: So wait, we're going there why?

SAM: Those are the only places that we know within
the Zenwick Mountains that have any appeal.

LAURA: Okay, so we choose between those two as our
strike place?

SAM: Yes. One of them is filled with crazy dwarf
cannibals. And the other one has ice mud that can

heal you.

MARISHA: But has turned violent, because nature is
angry.

LIAM: The druids are dropping us off at the base
of the mountain. We don't really know where either

of those things are.

LAURA: Maybe it's best that we don't let anyone
else know where we're going.

SAM: All right, including ourselves?

(laughter)

SAM: I like that plan!

LAURA: Yeah, because that way it'll all be a
surprise.

MARISHA: Didn't he already hear our two options?

MARISHA and LAURA: Did he?

SAM: We don't know.

TRAVIS: Oh my god.

LAURA: I don't know what he heard. I don't know
how often he listens to us, I don't know any of that.

MARISHA: Man, how does it work? Does he have
several lines open and he switches back and forth?

LAURA: Does he have to actively listen, or is it a
passive thing?

MARISHA: And how bored is this guy?

LAURA: I mean that's the thing, I mean he's
building an army and trying to take over the

world. I can't imagine he's listening to us all
the time.

MARISHA: Yeah, he's just trolling us!

LIAM: In my opinion, the gods are generally bored
and looking for things to do.

LAURA: Yeah but him. He's doing things. Like he's
got shit to do.

TALIESIN: I'm personally thinking that an undead
army of cannibalistic dwarves would be very

appealing if I were starting an assault on a city
like this, and I would be heading my city in that

direction to raise a bunch of undead cannibalistic
dwarves. That's my vibe.

LIAM: So you, Percy, want to go burn them up?

TALIESIN: I feel like that's where we're going to
find them, and where we'll find them preoccupied.

MARISHA: But if we know that's what he would do, then
wouldn't he know that we would go to find him at

what he would do?

TALIESIN: You're assuming that he's going to do
what he would expect us to think he would do in

the first place.

LAURA: Do we know what kind of creatures are in
the icy veil? Could there be ice giants there?

Would Vecna want ice giants?

MARISHA: Undead icy zombies?

MATT: There's an entire ecosystem of very
dangerous monstrosities that exist there, which

means there are living and dead. An elephant
graveyard of various aberrations and terrible

creatures.

TRAVIS: Well, look, if there are undead cannibal
dwarves or whatever in the crypts, don't we need

clerics to deal with them?

LIAM: We have a cleric.

SAM: Let's take her.

LAURA: Pike!

MATT: "Yeah?"

LAURA: Are you willing to leave the temple now?

MATT: "I'm afraid for my people there, but I feel
I can probably send myself with you like I have in

"the past."

LIAM: It's all or nothing, Pickle.

MATT: "I feel bad abandoning everyone that I've
brought to the temple."

LAURA: You aren't abandoning them.

LIAM: You're shielding them.

MARISHA: You could always do like the astral
projection thing, right?

MATT: "That's what I was thinking of doing."

LAURA: Well, okay, but if you're astral
projecting, aren't you chilling in one room here,

not really communicating, anyway?

MATT: Make a persuasion check.

MARISHA: I don't know if it's for Pike or for the
DM.

TALIESIN: We have a bit of a roving blind spot
here that we could use.

LAURA: 13.

MATT: 13?

LAURA: Oh no! But this can't be the only thing
that determines if she's an astral projection or

if she comes with us?

LIAM: My begging has to count, as well!

(laughter)

MARISHA: She destroyed a whole undead army being a
laser light beam.

LIAM: Yeah! That's right, she Tron'd those
motherfuckers.

LAURA: Will everything work like normal if she's
astral projection?

MATT: I'll tell you what, if you're so eager to
bring Pike along, and Ashley can't play, do you

guys want to jaeger her? Because I don't want to.

LAURA: Yeah, we'll totally jaeger her if she's
okay with it.

MARISHA: Remember, we've talked about this.
There's also the thing that if she dies while

Ashley's not here, we're fucking assholes!

TRAVIS and TALIESIN: Yeah.

LAURA: Okay, that's very true.

MARISHA: She won't die if she's a (bubbling)
thing.

LAURA: But if she's an astral projection, can she
still use the champion's blessing that she got

from Sarenrae and stuff?

MATT: We'll find out.

LAURA: Motherfuck.

MARISHA: But we can always easily go get her.

TRAVIS: It's the best we can do.

MATT: The dungeon master will remember that.

TRAVIS: All right, so what, the Crypts or the
Silted Veil?

SAM: One thing that I can tell you about the
Crypts that you may not know. They're not man-made

crypts. They're actually the inside of a fallen
titan's body.

LAURA: How do you know that?

SAM: I know things.

(laughter)

SAM: It seems like a pretty godly place to go to
make a statement.

LIAM: Are you telling me we're going to have to
crawl into another monster's asshole? Is that what

you're saying?

SAM: It's Friday.

MARISHA: And now we have two immovable rods!

(cheering)

TALIESIN: That got weird.

SAM: All right.

TRAVIS: So the Crypts?

SAM: To the Crypts, I say. But are we druiding
there and then flying on a dragon, or just flying

on a dragon?

MATT: Pike's, "Well, I mean, I'll come with you if
that's all right? If we're going to this, we need to do

"this together. I trust the city guard. And if it
gets real bad, you'll take us back, right,

"Keyleth?"

MARISHA: What?

MATT: "If it gets real bad, you'll take us back,
right?"

MARISHA: Yeah!

MATT: "Then let's do it!" And she puts her hand
out towards Grog.

TRAVIS: (shouting) Fuck yeah, buddy!

(cheering)

MATT: It looks like most of the sanctum is now
dissipating and heading out towards the front of

the temple and going about some sort of structured
exit to prepare for this assault.

LIAM: Allura!

MATT: As she's standing by, walking with Kima,
they're in a heated discussion with a member of

the Paramours of the Quadroads. She turns.
"Vax'ildan, yes. It's good to see you."

LIAM: It is so good to see you. We need advice.
We need help. There you go. When we fought Vecna,

he threw us around like ragdolls. He held us. He
did whatever he wanted. Do you have any way, any

thing, any suggestion for helping us avoid his
grasp again? Because if it went the way it went

the last time we are fucked right out of the
gate.

MATT: "What do you perceive as the weaknesses you
suffered in that previous battle?"

LIAM: What was that?

MATT: "What do you perceive are the weaknesses
that you suffered in that previous battle?"

LIAM: He was able to hold us, magically.

MATT: "There are ways to make sure those bindings
don't hold you still. There are magics that can

"prevent that. And if your enemy is as strong a
magic user as I know, he will use distance to his

"advantage. Close that distance and make it your
advantage. I know not quite what he's capable of

"in his new ascended form, and that scares me. But
strike quickly, strike true. Everything you've

"got, work together. Communicate. And anything you
can do to allow yourself preparation, and the jump

"on this fray, do it. That ring that Vord gave you,
that'll be a boon enough. If you can catch him off

"guard, that might mean everything."

LIAM: Thank you.

LAURA: Do you know what kind of magic it is that
keeps him from holding us? Just wondering. You

said there were kinds, but I want to make sure.

MATT: "Certainly, there are a few in your midst
that you can utilize. There's a spell called

"Freedom of Movement that can prevent being held or
paralyzed in that way."

LAURA: That's good. Just making sure. Because I
thought that was what it was. I just wanted to

double-check.

MATT: "Completely understood."

SAM: Well, shall we away then? We have to go now!

MATT: "I'd like to come with you, but currently
with everything going on, let's be honest, if I'm

"not there amongst the council, it's going to tear
itself apart. The sky as it is, the people of Emon

"are threatening all sorts of insanity. I'm sure
you've seen shades of it here in a city which

"has faith. I myself am not completely absolved
of the dreams that haunt many others. I'll be

"doing what I can to pay attention, but do note
that ring also prevents me from seeing in on you,

"and I have to look out for Emon. Me and my lady
both."

She turns over to Kima, who is currently in the
process of getting into an argument with a wyvern

rider. You see her going, "Oh, come on. I can
ride, too!"

"Have you ever ridden a wyvern?"

"No! But I haven't met a wyvern I can't stare
down!" Wyvern rider turns around and chuckles and

gets tripped immediately onto his face, the crush
of metal on the banks and he spins over and she,

(harrumphs). Spins around and joins Allura's side
and goes, "I never really liked this place. Bunch

"of pricks. Good to see you guys."

TRAVIS: You as well, that Holy Avenger getting
some action lately?

MATT: "Oh, nowhere near enough. That's okay. You
come back, and you and me will have a tussle."

TRAVIS: God, I love Kima so much.

MATT: "Don't be all doom and gloom, all right?
That's a promise. Stay alive."

TRAVIS, LAURA, and LIAM: (singing) Stay alive.

MATT: She looks up, and Allura looks down at her
and rubs the top of her head for a second. Kima

pulls away. "Come back safe, okay? I'm going to
hold you to that." And you see there's a moment of

her (sniffles), and she spins around not wanting
to show any weakness or emotion.

Allura looks back and watches her turn away and
goes, "You'll make it through this. I've seen you

"do great things."

SAM: We'll try.

MATT: "And you'll succeed. You have to. You have
many at your back. Look." And she puts her hand

out and you can see now there's at least over 100
wyvern riders, all scattered amongst the various

mountain outcroppings that are all getting on top
of their great winged beasts that are fully

armored with wyvern barding and armor. They're
taking off in clusters and circling. "They're all

"counting on you. They're going to make sure that
you have the opportunity you have, to put those to

"good use." And she glances off to the side of your
pouch, closed as it is. "Come back." She turns

around to go and join Kima.

LAURA: Give Gilmore a hug for us, will you?

MATT: She stops and turns. "I'll do that. I owe
him a visit, anyway."

LIAM: And if he has any trinkets that lend Freedom
of Movement, we'll place an order.

MATT: "I'll ask."

LIAM: Tell him we say hi.

MATT: "I will, and I'm sure he does as well. Take
care. Be safe. Come back." She turns and walks

away.

MARISHA: Did you see that?

LAURA: See what?

MARISHA: They think we're going to die!

(laughter)

SAM: They're right!

TALIESIN: Safe bet.

TRAVIS: I feel pretty encouraged.

LAURA: Yeah?

TRAVIS: I don't know why.

LAURA: Well, I'm glad.

MARISHA: So what exactly is our plan? Is it to try
and keep Vecna from gaining more forces, or are we

trying to cut off Vecna and his forces?

LAURA: I think they're taking care of the forces.
We're taking care of the god.

TALIESIN: They're the distraction.

MARISHA: Then why go through the crypt?

TALIESIN: We think that's where they're headed.

LIAM: But are we trying to take out potential
additional forces?

TALIESIN: That'd be my thought. That's where I
would go.

MARISHA: Is that not what other people are doing?

TALIESIN: I think that the surprise that he's
expecting to bring to the city, possibly,

especially with the information you brought, is
that he would try and raise this creature and use

it against the city.

LAURA: So he's basically wanting to raise a giant
zombie titan full of zombie cannibal dwarves, and

then they'll poo them out to fight other people.

TALIESIN: Somehow you make that less threatening.
I'm not sure how you do that.

LIAM: You know it's like when you take a duck and
you put it inside a chicken and then you put the

chicken inside a turkey.

SAM: Well, let's get going before he starts
raising this thing. Come on!

TALIESIN: Turducken of the Damned.

(laughter)

LAURA: Here's the thing, are we relying on Grog to
stab these trammels through Vecna?

LIAM: Or do we each need to deliver the one tied
to our gods?

TALIESIN: If we can all three in one swift
movement once we've weakened--

LAURA: It takes three separate attacks, I'm
assuming, right? Or would it be attack, attack,

attack?

(laughter)

TALIESIN: So much sass.

MATT: You gather by the nature of their
enchantment and the size of it, you can't cluster

them together like darts and jam them into the
board at once.

LAURA: Okay, but it would be one of those
situations where you'd have to attack and then

draw another one, and then attack, right?

MATT: It's possible.

SAM: Or three of us could each have one.

MARISHA: But he mentioned Vecna has to be severely
damaged--

LAURA: Already, before we even do that.

MATT: There have to be breaks in the avatar form
for them to pierce. There have to be breaks,

wounds, visible cracks in the veneer of the avatar
for the actual trammels to pierce.

MARISHA: So we're talking about doing this. Hey,
DM? Logistical question: how many days does it

take me to make a 4th-level scroll? Spell. Spell
scroll? 4th-level. How many days?

TRAVIS: Say it a couple more times.

MATT: That's going to be quite a while, that's
weeks and weeks and weeks. That's a downtime

activity.

SAM: I thought our whole deal was we're about to
go do a surprise attack? We have to go now.

LAURA: We do. We're saying we don't have time to
make a scroll spell, scroll scroll, spell scroll.

MARISHA: Allura also said, yo, plan. Maybe plan a
little.

LIAM: Also, DM: did we get told for these
trammels, for these harpoons, that they need to be

wielded by the person associated to their gods, or
can Grog chuck them all?

MATT: From what you understand there was no
specification of that. It was more the fusing of

the divine energy within the trammels' creation
grants it with the power. The means of delivering

it doesn't seem to be as important.

LAURA: But it is a melee weapon?

MATT: It's javelin-like; it could be thrown.

TALIESIN: We didn't make them to be aerodynamic,
did we?

MATT: They're somewhat aerodynamic by nature. Once
again, you can certainly try.

LAURA: I'm going to pass the Pelor trammel back to
you.

MARISHA: I have Freedom of Movement. But I have
three 4th-level spells. I can start burning into

my 5th-level spells, as well, but it lasts for an
hour, so I was trying to figure out if there's a way--

MATT: Pike says, "I can also do it."

MARISHA: Oh! Yeah!

LAURA: And it's not concentration, right, so you
can also cast Death Ward?

MATT: "It lasts for an hour."

TALIESIN: We'll wait until we're a little closer.

LAURA: And Death Ward lasts for eight hours?

MATT: "Death Ward? Yes! They're both 4th-level,
though."

TRAVIS: These words are all great and everything
but it's not going to change that we're going to

have to make it up when we get there, so why don't
we go ahead and fight this fucking fucker?

(cheering)

MATT: As you begin to descend down the stairs on
the outskirts of the mountainside, you can see

the wyvern riders have now gathered into two large
units, and in the distance, shrieks of wyvern calls

begin to echo through the mountain range. They all
begin to swoop towards the Abundant Terrace. You

guys follow suit?

LAURA: Sure.

MATT: All right, as you make your way to the
Abundant Terrace on the outskirts of the

Birthheart, there are the orchards, the large
clusters of trees that you have traveled to and

from before when travelling to and from Vasselheim
at Keyleth's behest. And there you can see a

number of the high priest druids of Melora have
all gathered around the High Hierophant, and

they're preparing means of transport for all the
troops, wyverns included, to those that are going

to make it as part of this initial front-line
assault. As you guys approach and watch, you see

as other generals and such begin to gather their
army units. They begin to discuss orders, and a

number of them in the middle of this refer over to
you guys. You can see there's definitely direction

being given in regards to you guys. Someone wants
to stop their alarm?

TALIESIN: Okay, this is going to be weird.

LAURA: Is it yours?

TALIESIN: It's that.

MATT: Oh, there's an actual alarm on the stage.

MARISHA: Oh my god, there is!

SAM: When it turned 12 midnight, the alarm clock
went off!

MATT: It's not flashing.

MARISHA: That's hilarious!

MATT: Thank you, Taliesin.

(cheering)

LAURA: He just hit snooze, you guys.

LIAM: Yeah, five more minutes, Raven Mom. Five
more minutes.

LAURA: It was all a dream!

MATT: As you approach, Ophera steps up. "It would
be my honor to grant you passage to the base of

"the mountain range. I believe your other companion
is approaching soon, as well." And she looks over

past your shoulder as you glance and you see J'mon
Sa Ord approaching. Within their arms is a small

leather chest, a container of some kind. J'mon
steps up and places it before you, pulls it back

and backs away with a brandishing presentation.

LAURA: What is it?

MATT: "May these potions keep you healthy." Within
here, there are eight superior healing potions.

LAURA: Whoa! Okay.

TRAVIS: Well, we're really in for a fucking fight,
huh?! When the game gives you eight superiors.

LAURA: So everybody take one superior, right?

SAM: Everybody gets one.

MATT: And there's one extra.

LIAM: They are so fucking badass.

LAURA: Everybody gets one and there's one extra?

MATT: Yeah, because there are eight and you have
seven in your party.

LAURA: I'm going to mark down that Pike has one.

TALIESIN: And who's made of the most glass? Who's
going to get hit the most?

LIAM: Scanlan is important.

LAURA: Scanlan's super important.

LIAM: Scanlan should have two.

SAM: Guys, I'm fine.

(laughter)

LAURA: I know you're very fine and you're very
capable.

LIAM: Also karma is a thing, and I really want to
balance the scales.

SAM: Why would you feel any pressure that way?

LIAM: We've got a long road of history, you and
I.

SAM: We're best buds!

LIAM: Best buds! Best buds, met at Big Apple Anime
Fest in New York City all those years ago.

AUDIENCE: Aww.

SAM: All right, I'll take two.

LAURA: Yeah. Okay.

SAM: In Marquesian I say, thank you, J'mon Sa Ord.

MATT: "Be pleased."

LAURA: We are. Very.

SAM: Also, if you don't like the Meat Man, I can
make him go away.

MATT: "Their business has not encroached upon the
order that we maintain. Yet."

(laughter)

MATT: "You'd know if it did."

LIAM: (whispers) They know!

MATT: The smoldering pupils that they contain
within their darkened eyes stare back at you with

a curling smile.

SAM: Thank you. Let's go. We've got to get through
this druidy thing, right?

MATT: Ophera backs up and, putting her staff to one
side, makes a large oval shape with her fingers as

she mutters beneath her breath. You watch as one
of the heavy, thick trunks of the nearest tree

begins to tear and crack and pull inward. And
there you see in a similar fashion to Keyleth's

casting, though a little more visceral, an opening
reveals itself and a doorway is opened, and she

goes, "Quick! Now!"

MARISHA: I like your technique!

MATT: You all rush through, one after another,
flanked at the end by J'mon. And as you all

approach the opposite side of this portal, you
emerge in a somewhat crowded forest of pine trees.

Immediately, the northern air is colder, and you
see drifting bits of snowfall softly coming

through bits of the tree line above you. You turn
around just in time to see the doorway close, and

in the distance you see other doorways opening
around you in different trees, and you watch as

dozens upon dozens of wyvern riders and armored
soldiers begin to emerge, one cluster after the next.

MARISHA: Fucking druids are badass!

TALIESIN: Let's do this.

MATT: You glance up and can briefly see the top
northern crest of where the Zenwick Mountain pass

is. Just past the canopy of the forest you're in,
because you were sent to the very slim base of the

Zenwick Mountains. You're within a forest. What do
you want to do?

LIAM: What does my Vec-dar tell me?

MATT: Interestingly enough, southeast of where you
are.

LIAM: Shit.

LAURA: How close?

MATT: I'd say it's probably close to four miles
from where you are.

LAURA: Oh shit.

MATT: And slowly moving away.

LIAM: We guessed wrong?

MARISHA: Four miles.

TALIESIN: Did we guess wrong?

LIAM: Well, we don't know where this shit is that
we're looking for.

SAM: Do we know where these things are?

MATT: They're both northwest of where you are, in
the mountain range.

MARISHA: He's passed them.

LIAM: Passed over.

MATT: He's passed over, it seems.

LIAM: Fuck.

SAM: What do we do?

MARISHA: If we get a little bit closer, I can do a
Commune with Nature spell and try and figure out

some stuff. It's all I've got. I can scry!

LAURA: I mean, if he's already passed by the
crypts, is there any reason to go there? I don't

understand.

TRAVIS: What direction is Vasselheim from us now?

MATT: Southeast.

MARISHA: The way they're heading.

TRAVIS: Anybody else think we should fucking hop
on a big-ass brass dragon and try and catch him

before he gets there? What are we going to do
here? There's nothing to do here!

LAURA: You want us to go fight Vecna right now?

TRAVIS: Either that, or he goes and sacks the city
and we're like, "What does this tree tell me about

"this area?"

(laughter)

LIAM: Quickly, please, someone come up with an argument
that counteracts that.

TALIESIN: We should scry on the dwarven city if we
can, really quickly.

SAM: How? We don't know much about it.

TALIESIN: Do we know enough to scry?

MARISHA: I can scry on Lady Briarwood.

LAURA: Do it. Do it right now.

TALIESIN and MARISHA: Ooh!

MARISHA: Yeah, I bet she's with him.

TALIESIN: Or she's not.

LIAM: We'll learn something.

LAURA: Are you zoning in on the city, or are you
zoning in on Vecna?

TALIESIN: We know where Vecna is. We just need to
see where Lady Briarwood is.

MARISHA: All right, scrying on Briarwood. Oh, she
rolls.

MATT: She rolls. To make a saving roll. Spell DC
is?

MARISHA: 21!

MATT: And that is a 22.

(groaning)

MATT: Sorry. As you try and focus, the incantation
completes and as your vision begins to extend it

is blocked by darkness and sent back into your
form. And you realize the scry has failed, the

will is too strong.

LAURA: Can you scry on that death knight guy that
was next to her?

MARISHA: Is he still with her, though?

LAURA: We didn't kill him. We did not kill him. We
did not hit him! We did not!

(laughter)

MARISHA: Oh, hi Vex. All right. I'll scry on
undead douchey.

MATT: As your vision extends from you, it races
through the darkness. You see dark clouds ahead.

As it fires down, you look instantly within the
streets of Thar Amphala. You see the cobblestone

roads now cracked and broken, you see buildings
appear to have sustained structural damage. You

see roofs are partially collapsed. And walking
down the street, strolling with a number of undead

soldiers at its back, the black knight you battled
before. As it struts through you watch as the

towers and buildings (rumbling) shake. And shake
again. And your vision returns.

TALIESIN: Oh shit.

MARISHA: It was shaking-- Oh, is it on the back of
some giant turtle or something?

(laughter)

TALIESIN: We should stop that from happening.

TRAVIS: Yeah, we're super lucky and it's just a
turtle.

(laughter)

TRAVIS: How lucky for us!

MARISHA: It'd be so cute.

MATT: "Then there is no time to waste." You watch
as J'mon Sa Ord's form shifts and giant brass

wings extend in a flash of reddish-orange energy.
The nearby trees bend and break at the sheer force

of the dragon's magnitude, their form expanding to
fill the recent vicinity of the forest, and with a

large guttural roar, you see before you the brass
dragon.

SAM: Shotgun!

LAURA: Hey, Keyleth? While we're flying through
the air, is it possible for you to give us a nice

inspiring speech?

MARISHA: Oh! (giggles)

TRAVIS: (laughs)

LIAM: It's all right. It's just our small group
here. No one's watching. You know us.

MARISHA: Yeah. Man, inspiring speech. So we're on
a brass dragon?

MATT: You can do it while you're all climbing on
the back. They're waiting patiently for you all to

jump onto the back of the dragon form.

SAM: If you need a second to think about it, it's
okay. We can start off first and then come back to you.

MARISHA: Wait, what?

SAM: Do you need a second to compose yourself?

MARISHA: You know, Scanlan.

(cheering)

MARISHA: It's funny you should mention that,
because I do need a second. I have to think about

my words deeply and a long time, and even still,
they come out wrong, and you're so witty and

quick! And you can come up with things like
speeches and songs on the fly in front of

thousands of people way quicker than I can. It is
not my strength, but I do know my strength, and I

know each of your strengths. But not as well of
each of you know your strengths as well as you do.

SAM: Sing it, sister.

MARISHA: What I'm saying is, you should believe in
yourselves the way that I believe in you, Scanlan.

And the way that you believe in everyone else,
Scanlan! Because you're all strong and unique. And

we're probably going to die.

(laughter)

MARISHA: (stammers) Okay, let's fly! Ahoy!

MATT: With a slow, metallic, crinkling sound of
brass dragon scales curling, the large head of

J'mon Sa Ord's dragon form spins around to look
you dead in the face, Keyleth. The same dark eyes

with the smoldering, burning cores for pupils, the
mouth opens and you can smell immediately the

breath that has a very earthy, singed, burnt-wood
scent to it.

MARISHA: Ooh, cedar!

MATT: And the voice goes forth. "Very good,
Keyleth. I found that quite inspiring."

(cheering)

MATT: And with that, you guys can all take your 18
temporary hit points.

TRAVIS: How much is it?

TALIESIN: 18 temporary hit points?

MATT: And with that note, with one large push of
their strong dragon wings, J'mon Sa Ord raises

beyond the treeline up into the sky above, where
you can see the clusters of wyvern riders have now

also gathered to survey the territory. The first
thing you notice, the southward wall, the tall,

rocky landscape surrounding the fields of ice,
dust, and grasses that fill this pass, you can see

the mountain range seems to have suffered an
immense amount of damage. A gargantuan fresh

rockslide nearly a mile wide, now resting at the
base of the northern mountain, you can see

swallowing and burying some of the forest land.

And as you glance southward into the Tordusk Pass,
you can see mammoth holes in the ground, large

craters of broken dirt and rock forced into dunes
of mud and shale surrounding their outsides. The

scars, pockmarks 200 feet across, carved into the
terrain. I'd like everyone to make an intelligence

check, please.

LAURA: We're making a what, an intelligence
check?

MARISHA: Can I do a nature check?

MATT: Sure.

MARISHA: Yeah?

(cheering)

MATT: Vex'ahlia?

LAURA: Is this an intelligence?

MATT: Yes. This is your intelligence modifier.

LAURA: 21.

MATT: 21, good. Vax?

LIAM: Oh, man. Eight.

MATT: Keyleth?

MARISHA: I am doing a nature check.

MATT: Right, to find out?

MARISHA: If it looks like a path has been bore
through in a straight line, like it looks like

it's going through. 24.

MATT: 24? What you can tell from a nature check is
that these are not natural formations in the

ground. These are blunt trauma to the ground that
has caused these large craters.

LAURA: Does it look like a walking path? A very
large walking path?

MATT: Percival?

TALIESIN: Natural 20, for 25.

MATT: Scanlan?

SAM: 19 total.

MATT: Okay. Percival. And Keyleth. And Perc'ahlia.
Not you Grog, sorry.

TRAVIS: Holes!

MATT: You do notice, upon immediate view, that
these large holes are patterned, staggered about

every 350-400 feet. And they do almost present the
gait of a walking creature.

MARISHA: (anguished sounds)

TRAVIS: Hey! You got that big fucking turtle you
wanted!

MARISHA: It is a giant turtle!

LIAM: The final miniature is just Matt.

MATT: "It has been foreseen!" I've been working on
my costume.

LAURA: Do we see anything in the air, any of those
shadow creatures? Or is it just our wyvern

riders?

MATT: Make a perception check.

LAURA: Natural 20!

MATT: Okay. As you lift up to survey more
territory, you manage to get a brief view over the

edge of that mountain range. You do not see any of
the gloomstalkers that you had previously faced

near Thar Amphala. In the vicinity, there is only
the wyvern riders and a few errant birds that

normally take to the skies that are keeping a wide
berth from your sudden emerging army that has

joined you in the skies. You glance over this
mountain range, and you look about. About two,

three miles northward, you can see the same path
of destruction has torn through these mountain

ranges in a sinkhole, hundreds and hundreds of
feet across that disappears into darkness.

LAURA: Is the sinkhole in the direction of the
city that's moving right now?

MATT: No, it's in the direction you guys were
planning to travel.

SAM: Oh. Maybe that's where they ripped the thing
out.

TALIESIN: It's where it came out. How big are
these footprints, approximately?

LAURA: (shouting) That's the fucking titan! It's
the titan full of dwarf bodies! I just realized that!

(laughter)

MARISHA: It totally fucking is, yeah. Yeah.

LIAM: And his name is Larkin.

(laughter)

LAURA: Shit! I thought it was just a really big
giant, and then I remembered it was a titan.

MATT: Yes, each one of these craters is roughly
150 or so feet across.

SAM: Oh, his feet are a hundred feet across?!

MATT: 150 to 200 feet across, yeah.

TALIESIN: Keyleth, how big would a creature be if
it had footprints approximately 150 to 200 feet

across?

SAM: At least a hundred feet big!

MARISHA: Probably bigger?

SAM: Maybe even bigger!

MARISHA: Can I do a nature check to find out how
fucking big this guy is?

MATT: Sure.

MARISHA: Yeah! Let's do this lucky one. That's not
too bad. 28.

MATT: Based on your experience with various
creatures that leave large tracks you've dealt

with or hunted in your history with the Ashari,
it's big. The legs generally are pretty thick

for a creature of immense size because it has to
support all that weight, but if each footfall,

crater here is about 150, 200 feet wide, you can
surmise the creature is hundreds of feet tall.

TRAVIS: At least six times.

LAURA: At least 600 feet tall. What did you say?

LIAM: I said we're going to have to Shadow of
Colossus this shit.

LAURA: How are we going to fucking fight something
that's 600 feet tall?

TRAVIS: If it bleeds, we-- we're going to die.

(laughter)

MARISHA: Hang on, though. Caverns. Undead caverns
of dwarves inside the titan.

LIAM: Yeah, maybe we crawl up its butthole and
kill the things inside.

MARISHA: Yeah, maybe, or fight it from the inside
out?

LAURA: Maybe?

TALIESIN: That's the most exciting Dwarven Forge
thing I'd ever want to see. The Godzilla

interior.

LAURA: We got to get inside of it.

TALIESIN: It may be all it takes.

LAURA: Are we on J'mon Sa Ord's back?

MATT: Yes, right now it's large brass dragon
wings (flapping).

TALIESIN: Neverending Storying our way to a
terrible death.

TRAVIS: Can you detect if we're making up any
ground on your target? I'm talking to you, Vax.

SAM: Liam, are we getting closer?

LIAM: My brain's on Vecna, not on the city. Is
Vecna doing a ride-along? Is he still moving in

the same direction?

MATT: Yeah, Vecna's slowly traveling in that
southeast direction.

SAM: Follow the tracks, then.

MATT: All right. With that, you hear the booming
voice of J'mon once more, "Very well. Let us be

"off." (whoosh) And goes into a fast-paced dive.
You all grab a hold of nearby dragon scale and/or

loose bits of fur there are as it drives into this
huge dive, this gargantuan dragon.

LAURA: Trinket's in the necklace for this part.

MATT: I assumed as such.

TRAVIS and LIAM: (scared bear noises)

MATT: You see as the wyvern riders immediately
take this action and begin to swoop and follow

suit, as well, following behind them. At this point,
you are the tip of the spear of this assault at

this very moment. You begin to follow this
pattern, cross the pass, heading south-southeast,

heading over and through different mountain
ranges. The higher you get, the wind gets a little

more intense, and the cold begins to get more
biting. And J'mon dips down a bit to avoid having

to thrust you into this very dangerous
stratosphere. The light in this area is very close

to near dusk almost, with how much the sunlight is
blotted out by the cloud cover that has completely

consumed the skyline, from horizon to horizon, on
all sides.

MARISHA: I do a bit of a Gust spell ahead of us to
clear the path, give him a little more visual line

of sight.

MATT: "Thank you," you hear emanate from J'mon as
the cloud cover tends to spread a little bit and

give a little bit of a good view. You travel on
for about 25, 30 or so minutes before Vex, Vax,

and Keyleth, you glance around the bend of the
pass that you've just begun to curve around, and

you see it: an impossibly immense entity, standing
hundreds and hundreds of feet tall. A gigantic,

bulky mass of jagged rock, slowly walking on two
castle-width legs, each footfall sending a

cloud-spray of earth into the air around it.
(crashing) Quaking the surrounding lands with a

terrifying crack and rumble. As the back leg
lifts, sifting through the air, you can almost

hear the air tear with a high-pitched whine, even
at this distance, as its sheer mass and speed in

which it's cutting through, breaking the
atmosphere, slams down for its next step.

(crashing) As you get a better view, the closer
you get, it resembles the earth elemental form

you've seen Keyleth take many times, only
proportionally malformed, and terrifying on a

scale you've never seen. Four colossal arms
swing from its torso, battering rams of shifting

stone, each over 150 feet wide. The closer you
get, Grog, you sense a faint vibration in the

Titanstone Knuckles.

TRAVIS: Oh my fucking god. Just a note. These were
made from the heart of a felled titan. I don't

think it's that one.

LAURA: It could be! That one's dead!

TRAVIS: That was sarcasm, but yeah.

SAM: Are you going to take him, one on one?

LAURA: Does that mean you can beat him up from the
inside?

TRAVIS: Oh yeah, beat him up with his heart!

LAURA: Yeah!

TRAVIS: (stammering) Do I notice anything?

MATT: Not in particular. You clap, and it sounds
booming, as it would. The closer you get, you

sense this very faint vibration to them, as if
proximity keys you in, and even your simple

mind, Grog, can gather that these were crafted
and made from whatever it is you see storming

through that ravine.

TALIESIN: Okay.

LIAM: Do I feel Vecna riding on this guy's
shoulder?

MATT: You sense the direction and distance of
Vecna directly where this entity lies. I would

like you to make a perception check, please.

LAURA: Do a what?

MATT: Perception check. Just him for now as he's
focusing.

LIAM: 27.

MATT: You glance past as your proximity grows
closer and closer. One, you notice that there are

beehive-type activity around the top where its
head would be. There is no massive head

protruding, just the shoulder shelf where the top of it
becomes these four arms, and it's faced away from

you, facing the way it's traveling, its arms
swinging wildly with each step, slowly. Its size

is difficult for you to fathom at this distance.
It seems so big yet so small. As you get closer,

you can see these bee swarm-like clusters
resemble creatures you saw in the Shadowfell not

too long ago, and there atop the shelf of its
gargantuan torso, you see a cityline resting atop of

this entity. There lies a portion of Thar Amphala,
moving with this gargantuan primordial earth

titan, risen from below its long-held tomb.

LAURA: I'm going to cast Pass Without a Trace on
us. It's not going to make any difference, but I'm

going to do it.

TALIESIN: Will that work on the back of a big
shiny dragon?

TRAVIS: Another note, to be clear, these were
carved from the heart stone of a ruined earth

primordial. When they're doing their thing, they
make me resistant to fire, cold, and lightning

damage. So. That's good.

MARISHA: Yeah. Theory time. Maybe. This primordial
is marching with Thar Amphala on its back to

Vasselheim. If I were a god, wanting to prove that
I'm awesome and do a big miracle thing, I would

drop a giant city on top of another city.

TRAVIS: Or destroy the city and replace it with
that one.

SAM: We can stop this, though. All we have to do
is beat the titan. I've got magic missiles that

can do 1d6 damage.

MATT: 1d4 plus one.

SAM: We could be in business!

TRAVIS: Listen. I know it seems really dire,
right? But the only other option besides attacking

it, in my mind, is trying to get its attention.
Maybe lead it away from Vasselheim.

TALIESIN: I think it's also, in theory, necrotic,
which means it can be turned.

LAURA: That would be one powerful fucking spell.

TALIESIN: We're going to have to do something.

LAURA: Pike, how strong are you feeling right
now?

MATT: You look back at Pike, who's clutching onto
the back of J'mon Sa Ord. Seeing this, her face

pale white, eyes wide. She's like, "I don't
know."

TRAVIS: It's all right, buddy!

LAURA: You got it. You're a monster!

MATT: (weakly) "I'm a monster! It's also a
monster!"

(laughter)

SAM: Should we land on the city on its back, or
should we try to fuck up the titan?

LAURA: I think we should dive into one of the
beehive tunnels and stealth in. I think we

should still be stealth mode. J'mon can drop us
off. J'mon, you distract all of the city with all

of your wyvern riders, as well, and we'll come in
from the bottom up, yeah?

MATT: "I think that is a very sound plan.
However," and as the dragon's head turns and looks

ahead, you can see some of these clusters of
gloomstalkers have broken away from the titan,

swarming in your direction. You're about, I'd say,
a mile and a half away from it and gaining, only

because you're pushing at full speed. You're
seeing now them breaking off into the clusters and

you hear the distant (screeching).

TRAVIS: I know we bamfed out here, but do we have
any idea how much time we have? How far away from

Vasselheim we are?

SAM: How far have we gone?

MATT: Fom what you can tell, make a--

TRAVIS: Don't make me make it. No, I'm ready.
Let's go!

LAURA: I'm going to guess, too, because he's
asking out loud.

MARISHA and TALIESIN: It's a good question.

MATT: Make a nature check.

MARISHA: Can I do it, too?

TRAVIS: Negative two!

(laughter)

TRAVIS: My modifier, my modifier, so 15. It was
17; I was excited.

MATT: Not too bad! You haven't traversed this area
of the north side of Issylra before, but gathering

based on where you were, seeing the sinkhole, and
the distance that Vax'ildan was giving you

earlier, you imagine it's probably about 200 miles
or so away from Vasselheim.

TRAVIS: Okay, we've got time. Not a lot.

MATT: It has a very wide gait with each step.

TRAVIS: But it's like Godzilla, right? It's like
(groaning, thud).

MATT: Yeah! So you have time, but it's not 200
miles on normal person feet.

TRAVIS: I mean, if he starts skipping, we're
fucked.

LAURA: Hey, Keyleth. Do you have any of that Wild
Guide-- is that what's it called? That herb that scares away

the undead.

MARISHA: I do. Well, I grabbed some, so I can
cultivate more of it, yeah.

LAURA: You should probably do that.

LIAM: They're a mile and a half away, and they see
us, it looks like.

MATT: Yeah, they're closing in, there's a short
time before they reach you. Remember, at this

traveling speed, any sort of smoke-based censer
material is going to go right behind you like a flare.

LIAM: Can we turn into clouds, Keyleth, and fly
off of our dragon ride and poof inside the titan?

MARISHA: Let me see what I packed.

TRAVIS: We'd be in the air, and not all of us are
so awesome in the air.

LAURA: We could fall off this dragon's back real
fast.

MARISHA: Okay. We could do Wind Walk. It's going
to take a minute to transform in and out. I also

have Animal Shapes.

SAM: J'mon, can you become invisible, by any
chance?

MATT: J'mon, you hear the voice rumble, "I can,
but only myself. I could maybe affect a couple of you."

SAM: I could affect a couple of us.

LAURA: How many?

SAM: Three.

LAURA: That leaves quite a few of us left. Maybe,
J'mon, could you get--

LIAM: Five?

MATT: "I could muster about four."

TRAVIS: That's enough. Three and four.

LIAM: Pike.

TRAVIS: I can't add.

SAM: Or! I could make J'mon look like one of those
dark flappy things and make us look like undead

creatures?

LAURA: They probably have seen us coming, though;
they're on their way here.

SAM: Yeah. Invisible, then?

TALIESIN: At least we're a smaller target, at that
point.

MARISHA: I can throw out a fog cloud and try and
fog us the rest of the way.

SAM: We'll fly through it; it won't work.

MARISHA: We're in clouds!

SAM: If you do the thing, we'll keep going through
it.

MARISHA: Oh. Yeah. That's a good point.

TRAVIS: Invisible or change us. One or the other.

LIAM: You could do invisible and I could fly as
fast as I fucking can away.

MATT: (screeching) The cloud breaks ahead and you
watch as two gloomstalkers come diving down

towards the back of J'mon.

SAM: Let's do invisible!

LAURA: I shoot one with an arrow.

TALIESIN: I shoot the other one with a gun.

MATT: Both of you guys, roll attacks.

TALIESIN: It's okay. We're going at a speed that
it doesn't matter. Did that just happen?

SAM: Yeah, I just knocked over a wine bottle.

MATT and TRAVIS: A grape juice bottle.

LAURA: 28.

MATT: 28 hits.

TALIESIN: (counting) 25.

MATT: 25 hits, as well.

TALIESIN: I should have said this. I was going to
burn a grit to drop.

MATT: Right, I figured that was the case. One of
them gets shot with an arrow and as the impact

hits, it shrieks but continues its dive. The second
one gets shot by-- which weapon was it?

TALIESIN: Animus.

MATT: With Animus. You watch as the detonation of
the spray of black from the impact of the bullet

hitting. As it shrieks, its wings buckle from
underneath and it plummets about 30 or 40 feet or

so and falls out of its dive. The one, however,
is still diving and it's going to go for the one

that shot it with its arrow. Natural two. That's
going to be a 13. I'm pretty sure that doesn't hit you.

LAURA: No, that doesn't hit.

MATT: As it attempts to dive past you, you duck
out of the way, still nocking a secondary arrow.

Its claws hits the back of the dragon scales. You
hear the scrape of it going across the back, but

having no effect on the hard, armored brass
dragon's back. The gloomstalker then shrieks once

more and takes back up into the clouds and
vanishes.

LIAM: Did I get an attack of opportunity on it
with daggers?

MATT: You can definitely attack it with daggers,
if you'd like.

LIAM: Yeah, that hits. 29.

MATT: That hits.

LIAM: If my friend the dragon is against it, do I
get sneak attack?

MATT: No. Sorry.

LIAM: All right. That is 12 for that.

MATT: 12 damage. How much damage did you do?

LAURA: 15.

MATT: As it shrieks and vanishes back into the clouds
above, you can see now the wyvern riders around

are starting to charge in, as well. As you're rushing
now, you're maybe three-quarters of a mile from

the exterior of this giant earth titan.

LAURA: Invisible!

MATT: All right. You complete your incantation in
time with J'mon, and the entirety of your party

turns transparent and is now free from visual
perspective.

LIAM: Did we get everybody?

MATT: You did three?

SAM: I can do four if J'mon can't.

MATT: J'mon can do four. Well, Pike and J'mon
would be eight.

SAM: Okay, so we'll do four and four.

MATT: And with that, you all manage to disappear
and go into a dive. As soon as you all vanish,

which is interesting because you disappear, and
suddenly your mount disappears, and all your

friends disappear. So you're clutching on to what
you hope is still dragon scales and fur as you

look down and see clouds, ground, mountains, and
eventual, plummeting death, were you not holding

onto the back of the dragon.

TRAVIS: (screams)

TALIESIN: Wait, if our eyelids are invisible, does
that mean we can't even close our eyes?

MATT: You can close your eyes.

TALIESIN: No, it's too much. Too much. Not cool.

MATT: I will say, because the enchantment doesn't
make you translucent, just invisible to the visual

gaze, the interior of your eyelids would not be
affected by it.

TALIESIN: Okay. That's my worst nightmare.

MATT: Much like a Harry Potter invisibility cloak.
You can still see the inside of the cloak

somewhat.

TALIESIN: Yeah, no, I was just having a Clockwork
Orange moment.

MARISHA: You make yourself more nauseous by
closing your eyes.

TALIESIN: That's not true.

MATT: As you go into this dive, you can hear the
clashing of wyvern against gloomstalker. You hear

the yelps and the shrieks of two different bestial
cries. You hear shouts of humanoid and elven

voices shouting as spears are tossed, arrows are
let loose, and this aerial fray begins. With that,

you glance forward as the dragon comes out of a
dive, J'mon leading you towards this gargantuan

entity. You can hear the further volume, the
(massive footsteps). Even slower than that,

probably, based on the gait it has to walk and the
speed it's going. It is like watching a mountain

with legs move. As you approach, what do you do?

SAM: Do we see a clearing? A landing spot?

MATT: You can make a perception check, guys. All
of you.

LAURA: 25.

MARISHA: 30.

TALIESIN: 24.

TRAVIS: Six.

SAM: Eight.

MATT: Eight, awesome. All right. Keyleth. You
guys, at this distance, it's hard to make out

details. But Keyleth, you rolled a 30, which
according to 5th Edition is nearly impossible as a

DC. So. You glance about and amongst the broken
rock exterior of this behemoth entity, you can see

towards the base of its right leg, towards the
back, a faint trickle of water, like a waterfall

of pee, probably. A trickling of a waterfall
that's flowing from its back leg area and then

dissipating as it plummets into the air.

MARISHA: That's it?

SAM: Is it coming from the city or coming from the
titan?

MATT: From the titan.

MARISHA: He's leaking from the back of his calf.

LAURA: Let's go in there, then.

MARISHA: From the back of his hip.

TALIESIN: Let's see if we can land on that burst
pimple, then.

MARISHA: I don't think there's any landing. I
think there's going to be-- yeah. But you know

what? Let's see what happens.

LAURA: Let's fly in close to that waterfall.

MATT: Okay, so you point this out to J'mon? All
right. You hear the dragon voice boom up once

more. "Hold on!" Goes into an intense dive trying
to bring-- because previously you were about level,

if not a little higher than Thar Amphala on the
top of the entity. J'mon goes into a dive towards

the hip area that you point out. The wind is
pushing past you. You're holding on for dear life

because any possible loss of grip not only is
going to loose you from the dragon, which is going

to be hard to find you, as you're all invisible,
depending on the dragon's abilities, I guess. But

as you begin to push down into this dive, I want
you all to make strength saving throws, please.

LAURA: Oh god, strength? Jeez Louise.

TRAVIS: Natural 20.

TALIESIN: Natural 20!

(cheering)

(groaning)

SAM: I got an 11.

LIAM: I'm using my first Luck of the day. Oh,
that's worse. That is a nine for me.

LAURA: God. A 22 for me. I know!

MARISHA: This is a group success or failure thing,
right?

MATT: In almost a poetic justice way, both Vax and
Keyleth begin to lose their grip, and with a

sequence of moments, they both get blown off the
back of the brass dragon.

LAURA: We wouldn't even know. Were they touching
each other? Tell me they were.

MATT: You and Vax are currently now, no grip on
any dragon.

MARISHA: Vax! Whisper!

LIAM: I throw my dagger at that sound.

MATT: Roll an attack.

MARISHA: Wait, what?

TRAVIS: That sounds like us.

LIAM: Were you saying you were going to come to me?
There's the 18!

MATT: With disadvantage, because she is
invisible.

LIAM: That's a 20.

MATT: What's your armor class, Keyleth?

MARISHA: He hits.

LAURA: Good, so you can bamf to her.

LIAM: That's right. 12 plus psychic damage,
honey.

SAM: You guys have a fucked-up relationship.

MARISHA: Our entire relationship has been psychic
damage, baby.

LIAM: 14.

MATT: So you take 14 points of piercing damage.
However, as soon as the pain hits you, it's

immediately allayed by the impact of Vax's arms
wrapping around you for dear life.

MARISHA: (sputtering)

LIAM: I'm kissing you already.

MATT: You both are now tumbling and plummeting
through the sky.

LIAM: Do you want to fly, or should I?

MARISHA: Hold on! And I go giant eagle form.

MATT: Okay. The giant eagle form takes flight. As
her wings extend, you realize you've been

clutching on to the under down feathers. As soon
as the form takes, you grasp hold and climb back

onto the top of the giant eagle. With that, you
both (whooshing). Now, here's an interesting

question, because invisibility lasts until you do
an attack or cast a spell. It's a magical ability,

I'm going to say that because it's a natural
effect, it will not affect the invisibility,

especially because you're at a high enough druid
level. Specifically, shape changing is your thing.

So I'll say you skirt under what would reveal
invisibility. You lose it, however, for attacking

her. So now there's a Vax huddled on nothing,
full-on Wonder Woman-style invisible jet, riding

through the sky. So as you guys coast in, the rest
of you hear J'mon go, "It appears we've lost some

"passengers."

MARISHA: No! Keep going! (cawing) Tell them! Keep
going!

LIAM: We're all right. Everything's fine here.
Everything's fine. How are you?

SAM: J'mon, they say they're okay. It's okay, we
can go.

MATT: "Very well." Continues into the dive. You
guys are trailing behind at this point, but making

your way down towards the hip region of this
entity, following the direction that Keyleth gave

at her spotting earlier. As you guys get closer
and closer, you can see there is indeed a

trickle of a waterfall that is dissipating, the
wind is so strong that it gets maybe 25 or 30 feet

down before it gets scattered into droplets.

SAM: Is it pee-colored?

MATT: No, it is actually pretty clear water. You
do also glance, as you get closer, it appears to

be emerging from some sort of an opening, like a
cavern entrance.

LAURA: Yeah, let's head for the opening.

MATT: So as you approach--

LAURA: We have Pass Without a Trace!

MATT: You do, but the flying man does not. So as
the rest of you make it up towards the side, and

the wind is strong here, you can hear the impact
of each footfall, so deafening your eardrums

almost shake and are in pain with each impact, the
bass of each footfall is immense. But you do see,

interestingly enough, there is the waterfall
coming out of it. The waterfall is careening down

a broken stone staircase. The opening is about
15 feet across and about ten feet wide. It

looks like it was at some point attached, before
this creature arose, to another series of tunnels

or wherever else this dwarven stronghold, this
series of vaults that were carved within this

creature's body, extended beyond its torso. This
is one of the breaking points. As you glance back,

you can see your brother coasting down about a
hundred or so feet away. You also watch as one of

the large arms swings back.

LAURA: No!

MARISHA: I dodge it! I try and dodge it!

MATT: I need both of you guys to make dexterity
saving throws. Actually, because you're riding

Keyleth right now, it's going to be on the giant
eagle form, because you're clutching it.

MARISHA: It's just on me?

MATT: It's just on you. It's hard to avoid a
hundred-plus-foot-wide arm.

LIAM: This is a save? Wait. This is a dex save,
right? I'm blessing Keyleth.

MATT: As you see it coming? I'll say you have the
time because it's so immense.

MARISHA: Add a d4, yeah? Four, yeah! Okay, 24
total!

MATT: That's not enough. You were one away. It's a
25 DC because this is a giant fucking arm! Both

you and Vax-- I don't have the dice for this, so
I'm going to have to use the app. You both suffer

87 points of bludgeoning damage as the force of a
mountain slams into the side of your half-elf and

eagle form.

MARISHA: You said 87?

MATT: 87 points of bludgeoning damage, yes.

MARISHA: Okay. I immediately drop form and start
falling.

MATT: Okay, any carryover damage, make sure to
mark that.

LIAM: Does Uncanny Dodge affect this at all?

MATT: Unfortunately, because you were relying on
her eagle maneuverability, no.

LIAM: Okay. Well then, I shoot the wings out
immediately.

MATT: Okay. The wings emerge as both of you begin
to plummet at this point.

MARISHA: I'm okay.

MATT: Keyleth? As you're plummeting, Vax, I need
you to roll a perception check.

SAM: J'mon, they're fine. They told us they're
fine! They'll be here any second! Don't worry.

TALIESIN: We did see this happen, right?

MATT: You guys are right now hovering by this and
looking back. You watch this occur. You see Vax

get smacked, fall, and then his wings shoot out.
Vax, roll a perception check. With disadvantage.

TALIESIN: Roll really high, twice.

LIAM: I rolled the same thing, so it's a 24.
Reliable talent.

MATT: Strangely, you're able to see a slight shift
in wind to give you a brief moment to see where

Keyleth's invisible, plummeting body is.

MARISHA: Oh, I'm still invisible as I'm falling.

MATT: Yeah, because you haven't cast a spell or
any attacks. So you manage to see this brief

shimmer in space where the wind bends around her
reverting form.

LIAM: I pick it up, grab it.

MATT: You thrust downward with your wings. You
grab her body and manage to carry. You can feel

her invisible body below you as you bring it back
up.

LIAM: Punch me in the face. Punch me in the face
right now!

MARISHA: (yelling)

LIAM: Hey, beautiful.

MARISHA: I'm sorry!

LIAM: Let's get the fuck out of here! Do a barrel
roll.

MATT: All right. Another giant arm swings, but
swings wide as it attempts to swing in the same

place it did before. It does not seem to see the
two of you quickly approach the proximity of its

torso. You hear this (zooming) passing over you by
about 30 or 40 feet.

MARISHA: Oh, trying to go for J'mon?

MATT: No, trying to go where you guys were. You
still have a visual point on it, so you direct and

tug Vax by the hair and ears in the direction of
the path you saw.

MARISHA: By the ponytail.

MATT: Yeah, basically. And there, on the edge, you
can see J'mon Sa Ord there, wings flapping, as you

guys rocket down and land right on the edge of the
footsteps. There's about a five-foot gap where the

water isn't rushing past.

MARISHA: Okay. I immediately cast Control Water
and suck it inside.

MATT: Okay. The waterfall stops and bends upward
and is now being held. You guys have a row of

steps ahead of you that are safe enough to land on
right now. They're still slick with water, but

there isn't a rushing waterfall pouring over
them.

LAURA: Can we see where to go to? An opening?

MATT: You can see it ascends upward out of view.

LAURA: Let's just go.

TALIESIN: This is what's happening. This is who we
are now.

MATT: J'mon, they swoop down and the giant dragon
claws (clattering) grapple onto the rock side of

this large titan and leans forward, giving each of
you the opportunity to jump a very short distance

over to these steps. As each of you make this
leap, J'mon disengages and flies up and says, "I

"can only grant you so much, for I have many to
watch out here as we distract he who resides

"above. However, take this." As the dragon head
descends, you see the eyes flare with energy as

they cast Mass Cure Wounds. Ooh, two sixes and a
seven, not bad. All right, 12, 19. That's going to

be 28 hit points healed to both of you.

TALIESIN: That helps.

LIAM: Yeah, as we were landing, the gashes all
over Vax's face started to heal up a little bit,

but not all the way. Then suddenly they went even
further.

MATT: "Be safe, and I'll see you on the other
side."

LAURA: (fake-crying) See you on the other side of
the war.

MATT: As you all stand on the precipice of this
opening that falls off into a drop, hundreds of

feet to the rocky ground below, you can smell the
cold wind blowing through these caverns, emerging

from this entrance you've found. As Keyleth holds
back the flow of this river, you glance up the

dark, rising stairs, deep into the body of the
titan amongst the cursed vaults of this dwarven

city, long abandoned, and begin your trek to
eventually meet your final conflict with the

Whispered One. That's where we're going to end
tonight's game.

(extended cheering)

BRIAN: Keep it up!

MATT: This is a little surreal.

BRIAN: Big time. There's some people that we
really want to thank really fast. It's our crew,

and it's the people who helped put this on for us.
So we want to thank-- I had the list but I left it

backstage because I was too involved in what was
going on. Okay. Dani, Sax, Courtney, Ryan, Rachel,

Ed, Jamie, Danny, Ben, Chris, Fernando, Audrey.
You guys. It takes literally six months to put one

of these on. The amount of work and heart and love
that our crew has put into this has been

incredible. You guys are incredible!

(cheering)

BRIAN: Thank you for waiting, thank you for
coming, thank you for participating! Don't worry,

it's almost Thursday. Good night, GenCon!

(cheering)

SAM: See you guys tomorrow. Get some sleep. Thanks
so much; this was a lot of fun!

MATT: So just a reminder, guys, those of you who
will be able to come to the signing tomorrow,

we'll see you there. If you can come at least to
pick up some Scanlan stickers, I think it'll be

worth your while. I'm going to post some images of
what they look like. I think you'll be happy. It's

high time you got the fuck out and went to sleep.
Thank you guys so much for joining us.

TALIESIN: What time is the signing? That's
actually a real question.

MATT: Sorry, trigger warning on that question. Oh,
the signing is at 2:30, looks like, begins at

2:30. Yeah, ticket says 3:00?

BRIAN: Lucas Oil Field Stadium.

MATT: (singing) My schedule is wrong! (speaking)
Pay attention to Geek and Sundry's Twitter for

announcements. Anyway, thank you so much for
coming. Hope you had fun. We had a great time.

(cheering)

TALIESIN: No, don't touch that!

MATT: You don't know what you've done.

BRIAN: I hope you brought two gallons of hand
sanitizer with you.

MATT: We love you guys. Good night.