MATT: Hello everyone, and welcome to Critical
Role, where a bunch of us nerdy-ass voice actors

sit around and play Dungeons and Dragons. Before
we get into tonight's episode, we've got to get

through a few announcements. First off, we have
our wonderful Darin De Paul joining us again.

(cheering)

MATT: Thank you, Darin.

DARIN: Thank you!

MATT: Excited to have you back. We've all
recovered from a crazy Comic-Con, mostly.

LAURA: Have we recovered?

MATT: I'm being optimistic here. We're recovering
from a Comic-Con. Got a chance to meet a bunch of

you guys out there. It was a lot of fun, but we're
here to get our announcements started, so let me

do that. First off, Laura, I believe there's a
merch update.

LAURA: Yes, there is, and I just realized I had it
on and I hadn't announced it yet. So we got these

back in the store! But they're red now. We've got
them on this chain and on this chain rope-thing.

Cord. And we've got them a keychain. And now, I
don't know if you saw them before, but they took a

long time to get, and now we just have them in the
store.

SAM: Are they going to run out again?

LAURA: I don't know. It depends on how many people
buy them, I guess, but we're going to try to keep

them in stock. That's the statement that like,
okay, that happened, but this is what I'm really

excited about.

MARISHA: Tell them!

LAURA: (sings victory song) Is the camera on? I
can't tell. It's a pencil pack. I asked them to

make this, because this is so great. So we all
have our own pencils. Everybody has a pencil.

We've got the "How do you want to do this?"
pencil. We've got the "I would like to rage"

pencil. We've got a Scanlan pencil-- oh no, this
is a Tary pencil. This is a "Doty, take this down"

pencil. I don't want to say all the things because
they're so great, but check them out. It's in the

store now. Does everybody want their pencil?

SAM: Are these #2 pencils? Could someone take the
SAT with my "Doty, take this down" pencil?

LAURA: It's a #2 pencil!

SAM: Whoa, that's so amazing!

TRAVIS: Percy, what's yours?

TALIESIN: I don't want to say.

LAURA: Do you want the Trinket pencil, Darin?

DARIN: Yeah!

LAURA: Such a good one. Oh, this is the Pike
one. And here's yours, Matt. It's pretty dope, so

check them out. I'm in love.

MATT: What's great is if you use it a lot,
eventually "How do you want to do this?" becomes

"do you want to do this?" to "you want to do
this?" to "want to do this?" to "do this?" to

"this?" (laughs) It's existential the entire time
you're using the pencil. I'm really excited about

that.

LAURA: I hadn't even thought about that.

TALIESIN: I'm so excited now to see what it spells
out.

MATT: It just keeps on giving. Thank you, Laura.

LAURA: You're welcome. I'm excited.

MATT: All right. Next up, for Gen Con, we have our
live show. We only have about 400 tickets left.

SAM: Is that true?

TALIESIN and MATT: Yeah.

SAM: For us? We're just a bunch of nerdy-ass voice
actors.

TRAVIS: We already surpassed the number of seats
we had last year, because we have an extra

thousand seats in this larger theater. It's going
to be a madhouse. We only have 400 left.

LAURA: And there may or may not be-- I don't know
if I should announce this.

LIAM: One of us is going to die that night, and I
don't mean a character.

LAURA: We may or may not have special merchandise
that you can only get at the live show.

SAM: Whoa. But surely it will be in the store
afterwards?

LAURA: Nope, it's just a live show thing.

SAM: Just exclusive to the live show?

TRAVIS: Well, see, you'd have to be there to find
out, so if there is a car, a plane, or a train, or

a telephone booth around you, get to Indianapolis
on August 18th!

LAURA: August 18th! How was that?

TRAVIS: Shit. It was terrible. It was really bad.

LAURA: Damn it.

MATT: I'll be excited if anyone got my Wonder
Showzen reference.

LIAM: Not even anyone at the table.

MATT: No. That means you means need to be
enlightened by the wonder that is Wonder Showzen.

No, you should not. It's disturbing as shit. Just
stacking you up today, boy!

DARIN: (child-like voice) This is the best place
ever! Thank you so much for this! It makes me very

happy.

MATT: Give him anything he wants if he keeps
making that sound. All right! Campaign guide info.

Update on the campaign guide stuff I would like to
give you. However, I think it's probably easier to

get it from the mama bird's mouth, so we actually
have in the studio today joining us, Chris Pramas

from Green Ronin.

(cheering)

MATT: Come in and join me down here for a second
and talk into the camera. Hey, buddy!

CHRIS: Too low? Is this all right?

MATT: I think we're all right.

LAURA: They might just see your forehead.

MATT: Just the forehead.

LAURA: There it is! I know, this is great.

MATT: So what's the update?

CHRIS: So last week we put the campaign guide up
for sale and it exceeded all of our expectations,

yes. So thank you to everyone who pre-ordered.
This is by far the most successful pre-order that

we've ever had for a book, so you're rocking it.
It has led to an unexpected complication, though,

in that our initial print run is of a size that
cannot be changed right now. We had to stop taking

pre-orders so we would have some to send to
stores, because obviously, we value game stores

and we want them to have some, so I just wanted to
reassure everybody that this book is not a limited

edition book. We're printing more, so if you were
not able to pre-order it, you will be able to get

it later. We're basically going to immediate
reprint. In the interim, the PDF is still

available, so you can get that if you like
electronic books, or if you have a local store,

they can take part in what's called our Pre-Order
Plus program. It allows people to pre-order

through the store and then get the $5 PDF deal
that we were offering as part of the pre-order. So

ask your local stores, do you take part in
Pre-Order Plus? If you need a link for that, you

can check our Twitter. Otherwise, second print run
will be along as soon as we can get it.

MATT: Fantastic. Thank you so much, Chris!
Appreciate it, buddy. Enjoy the show!

CHRIS: Oh, and we'll have copies at Gen Con.

MATT: Yes, we'll have copies at Gen Con!

TRAVIS: Even more reason!

LIAM: Boy, is that book fucking beautiful!

MARISHA: It is!

LAURA: Good job, you guys.

MATT: I'm so nervous about its release.

SAM: I have some notes on the cover.

TRAVIS: I have some notes on the book. Could it
have less words?

MATT: No, it just has less gnome bard.

SAM: Oh shit.

LIAM: The whole race died off in a Calamity. They
don't know what happened. Pike was the only one

who was spared.

MATT: It's so weird. (laughs) Don't worry, we have
a fix on the way. It'll be fine. Next up: Critical

Role podcast on iTunes and such.

MARISHA: More is coming very soon. Very, very
soon. Next batch is coming.

MATT: Cool. So we'll have that announcement as
soon as we have the specific dates for the next

batch. Should be coming up very soon. Once again,
we have Talks Machina on Tuesdays. We'll be next

Tuesday at 7:00pm Pacific to discuss this episode
tonight with our fantastic host, Brian Foster.

Looking forward to that. The Sagas of Sundry:
Dread show that me and Taliesin are part of. Fifth

episode is up is today on Alpha.

TALIESIN: It's almost over.

MATT: I know. We have one more episode of this,
right?

MARISHA: And check out these awesome Dread shirts,
you guys! They're in the store. Aren't they

awesome?

MATT: If you haven't seen it yet, it's a fantastic
pseudo-theater improv RPG horror show with me and

Taliesin as part of the cast. Marisha's one of the
executive producers, and Darin De Paul is our

fantastic Rod Serling intro personality. So check
it out if you haven't yet.

MARISHA: Mr. Wren!

MATT: Mr. Wren. It's a fun one. I think that's it.

LIAM: Wait, there's a couple more things.

MATT: They're not on the list!

LIAM: Well, you got a little boxy back there that
you should pull out.

MATT: Oh, right! Yes!

LAURA: What is it?

TRAVIS: Does it have a small creature in it?

LAURA: Does it have air holes?

MATT: This question has come up a lot. The combat
tiers, the plastic platforms that I use for height

in the game, have been out of stock, out of
production for a while now. They're finally

available again. Our friends at Emerald Knights
got us these boxes. These are available off

Paizo.com. You can go ahead and pick up the combat
tiers. They are now available again if you've been

wondering where the heck to get some.

TRAVIS: And they're out of stock.

MATT: Shit.

LIAM: I think Jay at Emerald Knights told me that
they're going to be in stores soonish as well, but

you can go to Paizo right now-- tweet! And go find
them.

MATT: These have saved my ass many times in games,
as you've seen. Highly recommended for anyone

who's DMing or running a game. It's awesome.

LIAM: Been in our game since day one.

MARISHA: I remember when I got those for you when
they were still prototypes in a little white box.

MATT: Yeah, they were in a little standard
cardboard box. You were like, this looks like it

should work. Saved my ass.

LIAM: And Laura and I are in this really cool game
called Lone Echo by Ready at Dawn.

LAURA: That's the guys that did The Order.

LIAM: We both play AI.

LAURA: We're computers.

LIAM: Yes. Very calm the whole time.

LAURA: That's right. We'll help you out.

TRAVIS: (snoring)

LAURA: Which is cool. It's VR. It's really badass,
so check it out.

MATT: That's great. Well cool, thank you guys for
the update. What you got, Sam?

SAM: No, I got nothing.

MATT: Well then, without further ado--

LAURA: Aw, my little Trinket dice bag isn't here.

TRAVIS: Nobody cares but you.

LAURA: I think it's still in the thing.

MATT: So to announce that her bag isn't here,
we're going to take a moment--

LAURA: Sorry. I'll go and get it during the
credits.

MATT: There you go. And that being said, guys,
let's go ahead and bring this down into tonight's

episode of Critical Role.

[dramatic music]

MATT: And welcome back, everybody. Last we left
off, Vox Machina had been finding their way

through the realms to talk with various deities in
hopes of getting information, and perhaps a

blessing or two, to aid them in their coming
battle against Vecna, the intent-to-ascend entity,

the long-missing and recently returned archlich
that plagued the end of the Age of Arcanum. You

have since discovered the location of his rebirth,
followed into the Shadowfell, through the city of

Thar Amphala, took down his tower of Entropis, did
battle, and nearly fell. You escaped in time, and

in this recovery period have been seeking out
information on how to stop him before this

ascension occurs, and by what tools necessary.

You've traveled to the Blessed Fields of Elysium,
where you met Pike's deity, the Everlight,

Sarenrae, where she received her blessing. You
made your way to the Fortress of the Sun, where

you met with the Dawnfather Pelor, took his
challenge, and received his blessing. You were

then given information about the whereabouts of
Ioun, the Knowing Goddess, and the domain of

knowledge, who had been hidden away since her
wounding during the Calamity. The key to her realm

was apparently hidden within not an object, but an
individual. Given loose information about the

whereabouts of this individual, you tracked down a
small home in the forested regions outside the

Pools of Wittebak in the Cliffkeep Mountains.

There, you spoke with this individual, this Sprigg
the Obnoxious, and then were immediately assailed

by a number of assassins sent by the Whispered
One, Vecna, apparently keeping watch on your

current location and able to send such groups of
assassins with vast haste. You did battle, managed

to save the life of Sprigg the Obnoxious, and
through conversation, unveiled that he was indeed

a key to this realm.

Keyleth, by entwining your hands with the rest of
the party and focusing on this strange magical

essence hidden within Sprigg's form, you completed
your Plane Shift spell. You found yourself

suddenly within a dimension of an endless library,
shelves of winding books and tomes that spiral

beyond sight. In the midst of this amazing
atmosphere, a voice called you to a central

portion of the chamber. There, it seems, you've
come across the Knowing Mistress, Ioun herself,

there awaiting your arrival.

LAURA: Did we see her?

MATT: You did.

LAURA: Okay. Is she old or young? I can't
remember.

MATT: I'm going to go over this. Going to get you
in a space. Something to bring us back into the

moment.

So you glance around, your vision darting from
shelf to stack, the dark-lit areas empty of

anything but empty vessels carrying books, until
you see it. The shelves have stopped ahead to

reveal a circular common area within the library
where the ground domes downward, an 80-foot

concave pit of cushions and tables all standing at
odd angles without sliding, holding tea cups and

writing implements against gravity as you know it.
Long spiralling streams of silver, blue and grey

silk descend from the supposed ceiling that is
beyond your sight, the material resting in gentle

piles amongst the cushions-- sorry, microphone--
against the cushions. Sitting within the center of

the dome, no larger than a normal person, is an
older woman of long, wavy silver hair. Her olive

skin is somewhat weathered with wrinkles but the
warmth of her smile and her vibrant purple eyes

put you at ease. Her blue and white robes tumble
out from her form in tendrils of parchment that

snake through the pillows like roots of a giant
tree. This is the Mistress, and she beckons you

forward.

SAM: We step forward. Are we on the edge of the
bowl? Is she in the bowl and we're on the edge of

the bowl?

MATT: Yeah. You guys are on the edge of it. She's
in the very center of it.

SAM: Are we going to go into the bowl?

LAURA: Are we allowed?

MATT: Nothing seems to be holding you back.

DARIN: O Ioun, O goddess of knowledge, O lord who
knows all. You know. But I don't. Let me ask you a

question. And you'll see I didn't phrase that as a
question because I know how gods work, and that

probably would have been my question and then I
might as well have just talked to a turnip. Which

I've done. Found it pleasant. That being said,
this is my question. The next thing out of my

mouth is going to be my question. Why did you
choose me to be your key? I'm nothing. I'm a

coward. Why would you ever choose me?

MATT: She opens her arms as you stand at the edge
of this domed precipice, and you watch as the

tendrils unfurl, pulling back a bit, revealing
small pathways to walk down toward her. Her arms

open in a welcoming motion.

LAURA: I'll walk forward.

TALIESIN: I'm walking in there.

SAM: Take a tumble.

MATT: "The purpose in choosing you, Sprigg, was,
as with all the other keys I've chosen before you,

"an unlikely choice. You were at odds with many of
my outlooks, but I saw within you, still, the seed

"of the seeker of knowledge. So in that balance, I
found a proper vessel. Someone who at once would

"not be the choice that I would make to hide my
key, but a person not beyond the realm of

"redemption within the domain that I look over."

DARIN: Thank you.

MATT: "Now, come. Please, sit. You've come a long
way. I'm curious as to what your reasons are for

"coming to me at this hour and I wish to see if my
assumptions are correct. Sit."

LAURA: You don't know already?

DARIN: Well, the goddess of knowledge is implied
in the title. Not insulting anyone. Knock knock.

MATT: "Who's there?"

DARIN: You would know.

MATT: You watch as her stoic expression curls into
a smile and her head falls back a bit to a small

chuckle. (chuckles) "Humor is perhaps a bit thin
in these walls as of late. It's nice to have a

"laugh. Thank you."

LIAM: Who was it, though?

DARIN: It was me the whole time.

MATT: "It was Larkin, my friend."

LAURA: Oh shit.

LIAM: She knows everything.

TRAVIS: Larkin!

DARIN: I don't know who that is.

TRAVIS: Many don't.

DARIN: Well said.

SAM: O mighty Ioun, we are here to ask you for
help, for a great danger. You might already know

this, but a great danger has befallen the world.
There is one who has come from another plane to

become a god himself, Vecna. For all we know, he
may already have achieved godhood, but he's well

on his path.

MATT: "I know much about this individual you speak
and I had assumed this was the reason for your arrival."

LAURA: Do you know if he's been successful?

MATT: "I do not. I've not sensed any change in the
cosmetology of the world. Cosmology, even."

Cosmetology.

TRAVIS: I thought that was hair and makeup--

MATT: That's a different word. Her domains expand
beyond just knowledge, guys. Hence the unfurling.

TRAVIS: I've been thinking about getting some
highlights for this beard.

LIAM: It's Frenchie.

(laughter)

TRAVIS: (singing) Beauty school dropout.

MATT: "But no. You see, this Vecna is in direct
opposition to what I represent, and I believe has

"taken some precautions to keep from my distant
sight, so while I have assumptions and what

"information makes its way to me, there is a bit of
relying on you to fill in the gaps."

TALIESIN: What do you wish to know?

MATT: "Well. Do you intend to return to face this
entity, or have you chosen or found champions in

"Exandria who would rise up against this
individual?"

LAURA: We didn't even realize that was an option.

TALIESIN: Hadn't occurred to us.

MARISHA: Wow. Maybe that's very self-centered of
us, now that I think about it.

LAURA: We intend to face him down ourselves.

TRAVIS: We want to fight.

MARISHA: We're heading his direction no matter
what.

MATT: "Do you think you have the strength required
to do this?"

SAM: We're gathering the strength right now. Some
among us have already-- the one who's making weird

faces has already sworn allegiance to another
god.

TRAVIS: Hashtag blessed.

MATT: Her eyes close for a minute and she nods.
"The coming fight does indeed warrant the aid that

"these journeys would muster and I can see the
touch of my brethren on you already." And she

motions towards Vax and Vex and Pike.

TALIESIN: Even with these gods, there is still
much doubt as to our success. We are not certain.

We are not sure.

TRAVIS: We fought once, and if this is a broom
motion, we were just getting swooped. Swept. What

is it? Swiffered.

LAURA: Pelor mentioned something about the Prime
Trammels?

MATT: "I was wondering if that would surface.
Well, if you are indeed here seeking my gift, know

"that I do not grant it lightly. For those who are
not already claimed--" She glances around the rest

of the group. "Grog Strongjaw. Just being within
my realm is of near-painful discomfort to you. For

"that I apologize and can see you are not to be my
vessel."

LAURA: It's okay, Grog.

TRAVIS: Oh. What a roller coaster. I was going up
and then going back down. Thank you for your gaze,

my lady.

LIAM: Grog just invented amusement park rides.

MATT: "Keyleth of Zephrah, you have been carved
from empathy and acceptance. While you do indeed

"pursue understanding, my gifts find little
purchase on your path of responsibility.

"Percival Fredrickstein Von Musel Klossowski de
Rolo III--"

SAM: (whispering) She knows everything.

MATT: "You have always been a student of knowledge
and a seeker of truths. I am fond of your hunger

"for understanding, but you do keep your secrets
and are selfish with your discoveries, still. You

"have much growing to do.

"Scanlan Shorthalt, you are a buffoon. At least,
that is the facade you craft and display to the

"world while you weave tales of the experiences
around you and share your stories with any who'd

"listen. You wrestle the mysteries of Exandria from
their hidden places and shout them to any who

"would listen and inspire the lost to find purpose.
You hold the blade of the White Duke and walk a

"parallel path. You are a storyteller, and I am the
keeper of all stories. I shall task you with my

"challenge."

SAM: Not to question your infinite knowledge and
judgment, but my stories are more of little bar

room tales and silly poems to pass the time. I
would hardly call them epic histories of

civilization.

MATT: "For now, perhaps."

DARIN: We're all stories in the end. Just make
sure yours is a good one.

MATT: "Do you think that your compatriots would
have the strength now to rise against such a

"scourge had you not been there to lift their
spirits with these tales?"

LAURA: It's true, Scanlan.

SAM: I'm really powerful.

LAURA: You are.

LIAM: And humble.

SAM: It's my best asset.

LIAM: And deeper than you let on.

TRAVIS: And the cube.

LAURA: (laughing) And a cube.

MATT: She glances over at you with a knowing
look.

SAM: If you have faith in me, I will have faith in
you and trust you and your knowledge. And I will

try to complete any task you ask of me.

MATT: "Then let the challenge be placed before
you. Scanlan Shorthalt! Somewhere within this

"library lies the book that contains the
Incantation of Isolation, the arcane rite that

"banished the Chained Oblivion. You have one hour
to retrieve it. Your friends can help you, but you

"can only present one tome to me. And should it be
incorrect, then I shall await another warrior of

"keen mind to find me and accept my gift, for I can
only guide one strong enough to face the foe

"before you. Return to me when you are certain
you've found it. Your challenge begins now." And

with that, her entire body vanishes in a gust of
wind. All the little tendrils of paper flutter out

and come to rest within the dome, and you look up
and see the immensity of this library.

TRAVIS: Incantation of Isolation?

LAURA: Incantation of Isolation.

MARISHA: I speak Primordial.

TRAVIS: We don't know the name of the book, right?
So we can't Locate Object.

SAM: There's a tome that contains the incantation
of what?

TRAVIS, LAURA, MARISHA, and SAM: Isolation.

MARISHA: Which was what they used--

LAURA: What is with this pencil? It was dipped in
ketchup or something.

MATT: Don't use that pencil. Use one of your own.

LAURA: But it needs to be sharpened.

MATT: Just push really hard.

TRAVIS: How do we do that? Sprigg!

DARIN: Yes?

TRAVIS: Do you have a tome at your place that has
the Incantation of Isolation?

DARIN: Not anymore. Burny-burny, ashy-ashy.
Bye-bye.

LAURA: Do you remember the name of it?

DARIN: No.

LAURA: I'm going to try casting Locate Object and
cast it on the tome that contains the Incantation

of Isolation. Try it. Why not.

TRAVIS: Can it work like that?

LAURA: I don't know.

LIAM: An object known to you as long as you have
seen it up close within 30 feet at least once.

LAURA: Oh. Really?

LIAM: Yeah. It's a spell I have now.

MATT: Describe or name an object that is familiar
to you. You sense the direction of the object's

location, so as long as the object is within a
thousand feet of you.

LAURA: Okay.

MATT: So you cast the spell. And you think about
it and you concentrate. Nothing.

LAURA: I'm going to kneel down and pray to the
Dawnfather, since he was one of the ones that

helped fight the Chained Oblivion, to see if he
could guide us at all.

MATT: Okay. You close your eyes and focus and you
begin to beseech the knowledge and wisdom of the

Dawnfather. Two minutes pass with no answer.

LIAM: During that two minutes, I'm going to scan
the room. Is there any design or purpose to the

layout of the room? Anything that stands out
besides books.

MATT: As you glance around the room quickly, you
see there are probably two dozen bookshelf aisle

openings all around this central dome area. You
begin to look around. You don't see any specific

signs. Go ahead and roll a perception check.

LIAM: Going to use my last Luck for this sleep
cycle. Natural 20.

MATT: Glancing about, you don't see any signs on
the books. You do notice, however, there are

hundreds of those somewhat spectral keepers of the
library that are moving tomes through and

organizing and relocating things, just like you saw
when you first entered.

SAM: They're spectral?

MATT: They're spectral, yeah.

SAM: I'm going to go try to talk to one of them.

MATT: Okay. One of them's currently pulling books
out. You can see the basic shimmering outline of a

humanoid form, and they're taking a book off and
stacking it and finding another.

SAM: Hello, sir. Do you have language? Can you
speak?

MATT: He turns and looks to you for a second.

SAM: Can you help us find a book? It contains an
Incantation of Isolation.

TRAVIS: Or about the Chained Oblivion.

SAM: Or about the Chained Oblivion.

LAURA: Or about the Calamity or something.

TALIESIN: Where are the lives of those who
witnessed it?

MATT: It doesn't seem to be at this moment--

SAM: No chance.

LAURA: I'm going to hop on my broom to see if I
get a ping on my Locate Object.

SAM: Wait. Before we start flying around, what do
we know? When was this last used, this book? 886

years ago or whatever, right? 812 years ago.

LAURA: Wow, you know that?

SAM: Well, it's 812 P-whatever. PD, right? So 812
years ago. So we're looking for a very old book

that was used by Ioun? Who was it used by?

TRAVIS: Potentially. Or the Dawnfather helped seal
with Ioun.

MARISHA: Correct.

SAM: So it's some sort of a wizard's or sorcerer's
tome?

MARISHA: I have a question. Didn't one of us have
a potion or scroll of language-speaking? Didn't we

have that?

LAURA: Do any of the tomes have titles on them,
though?

MATT: Glancing about, and some of them do. They're
all in Celestial.

TALIESIN: I'm going to read off some titles.

MARISHA: Yeah. Primordial.

MATT: None visibly currently in Primordial.

SAM: Is that the language they used before the--

LAURA: I feel like Celestial would be what the
Dawnfather would speak, though.

MARISHA: Celestial would be close. I would think
more close than Primordial.

MATT: So make an investigation check. Who else is
looking through books?

LAURA: I don't speak Celestial, so it doesn't
really matter.

MATT: Well, make separate investigation checks.

TALIESIN: 12.

MARISHA: We're making investigation checks?

MATT: Anybody who's searching currently, or doing
something that involves searching through books.

LIAM: 26.

LAURA: 21.

MARISHA: 20.

TALIESIN: 12.

MATT: Okay.

DARIN: 22.

MATT: All right. You guys begin fanning out. And
it's so overwhelming. It's so immense. There's

thousands and thousands and tens of thousands of
books within your immediate visual vicinity. And

like I said, about 150 feet beyond you, it seems
to fade into shadow and the more you walk towards

that shadow, it reveals more books. They curve and
spiral and almost seem to intertwine into that

Escher painting-like advance towards the ceiling
you don't see.

LAURA: Does it seem like some are older than
others?

MATT: Yeah. They seem scattered. As you're going
around you find some are Celestial. The further

away from the center you get you do find some
sections that are other languages. You see some

that are in Abyssal. You don't find any that are
Primordial yet.

TRAVIS: Scattered amongst or categorized by
language?

MATT: The ones that are nearest to the center here
are all names. They are all names of people.

LAURA: Okay.

SAM: So we need to find one that's not a name of a
person.

DARIN: Who used the Incantation of Isolation?
Perhaps if we find the book of the user, we will

find their spells.

LAURA: Was it Pelor? Does Pelor have a book?

SAM: Are they dead?

TRAVIS: No, it continues writing, right?
Potentially, there's a book.

SAM: So there's a book that says Pelor on it? Or
Ioun. Or Dawnfather.

LIAM: Or if Vecna is a dead man. Maybe a book with
Vecna's name on it?

LAURA: I don't know why the Incantation of
Isolation would be--

SAM: Hey, Percy, are these books arranged in any
order? Chronological, name, anything? Oh, you

didn't see anything when you looked?

MATT: You're having a hard time really finding any
pattern to the books.

TALIESIN: Fuck. There's no pattern.

LAURA: Can I look at the bookbinding, though? Do
some books seem like they fall apart more?

MATT: Yeah, there's a wide variety of ages and
types. The sense of the pattern of the sections of

books: some of them seem to be clustered together
and some of them seem to have similar colorations

the further into the side. The further out you get
from this the more scattered they get. It's almost

like the organization begins from the center and
either they're reorganized for reasons that are

beyond your comprehension. You get the sense as
you begin to hear this slight grinding-- you got

the natural 20?

LIAM: Earlier, yeah.

MATT: Yep. So you've been glancing about and
looking about. You pick up the slight sound

(grinding). And you look up and you can see some
of these shelves coming down from the

ceiling that are stopping about 30 feet above you are
sliding and moving. The actual library seems to

have some sort of slow rearranging movement to
it.

LIAM: Pop out the wings. Go up.

MARISHA: I start looking at the ceiling. Is there
any type of-- what are those? The observatory.

What are those called, Percy? The celestial, tell
you the stars thing?

TALIESIN: Oh, like some sort of astrolabe or
something like that?

MARISHA: Yeah. Astrolabe? You know those big
rotating things you can put in the year and the

month in the calendar.

MATT: Oh, right. Nothing you've seen so far. Make
a perception check.

MARISHA: What am I looking for? Perception check?
That's good. 17. 30 total.

MATT: Looking around your current vicinity, you
see nothing like that.

TALIESIN: Are there any books in the bowl?

MATT: There are a handful on one of the tables
that are around.

TALIESIN: I'm going to take a look at what's in
the bowl.

TRAVIS: I jump in and start throwing pillows
around. Did she leave anything cool behind?

MATT: As you're throwing the pillows, some of them
fling off to the side, and you uncover a couple of

empty cups of tea.

TRAVIS: I drink them.

MATT: All right. You get some stale
library-temperature tea. You do find a couple of

large books on one of the nearby tables.

TRAVIS: Ooh! I found a large book on one of the
nearby tables.

TALIESIN: I'm going to read the names of these
books.

MATT: Okay. One of them, the name is Jaina Kumor.
Doesn't ring a bell. And another one appears to be

a book that pertains to the attempts of creating
alchemical transitions from one base element to

another. Essentially, what was the attempt at a
philosopher's stone-like object long ago and the

various trials and tribulations and unfortunate
deaths that occurred because of it.

SAM: Interesting.

LIAM: Do I see anything different 100, 150 feet
up? Does the change in perspective on the room

below reveal anything?

MATT: The change in perspective shows you one, you
do finally see a ceiling and it's like two

mirrored libraries in the ceiling and the floor.
There are bookshelves that come up and stop and

there are bookshelves that come down and stop, and
you look up and you can see there are other

spirits hanging upside down walking along the
pathways above, as well.

SAM: Wait, so it's like a mirror image, the top
and bottom?

MATT: Yeah, but they're not exact mirror images.
There's just a bottom and a top part of the

library.

SAM: What if that line is the demarcation between
pre-Divergence and post-Divergence or something

like that?

LAURA: That's cool. Go up and in.

SAM: I can't.

LAURA: Here, get on the broom, Scanlan. We'll fly
up.

MATT: All right. So Scanlan, you jump on her
broom. (whooshing) You fly up. Who's taking a

look? Make an investigation check if you do.

SAM: I'm going to take a look, but I'm going to
pull out my Ioun stone and clutch it in my hand

and close my eyes and pray on it for a second.
Hope that guides me in some way.

MATT: Roll a religion check.

SAM: Religion check. Okay, well, that's terrible.

TRAVIS: Luck!

SAM: I don't have Luck. I can inspire myself. I
will inspire myself with a little song. (singing)

Scanlancito, he's got tiny feet-oh, but he likes
to cast spells, he does it with his beat-oh. When

you go to sleep-oh, better check your sheet-ohs,
because after he eats-ohs, he likes to take a

shit-oh!

(laughter)

TRAVIS: Oh my god. Are you fucking kidding me?
What the hell, man?

LIAM: Get that book.

MATT: Yeah, You earned that d12.

SAM: That's a 12. So that brings it up to 21.

MATT: Okay. This is your investigation check to
search about. Oh no, that's your religion check.

All right. Clutching the Ioun stone, as you sing
this song, the stone glows ever so faintly in your

hand and you glance up and you can see about ten
of the various spectral librarians that are

wandering have stopped and they're all looking at
you. Seemingly temporarily distracted or entranced

by the song.

LAURA: Let's go try to talk to one.

SAM: Okay. Whoa!

MATT: You land next to all the librarians and as
soon as you land, there's like a moment of quiet

and they all go about their business again.

SAM: On behalf of the Mistress Ioun, I speak in
her name. And I'll hold up the stone.

LAURA: It's always good to lie.

SAM: Well she tasked me; it's not a lie! She
tasked me with this. We seek a book. We would love

some help, and it contains the Incantation of
Isolation. Maybe about 812 years old-ish. Maybe

813?

MATT: No one seems to be paying attention to your
words.

LAURA and TALIESIN: Maybe sing it.

SAM: I have to sing it?

LIAM: Pull out Mythcarver.

LAURA: Pull out Mythcarver and sing.

SAM: Oh, okay. I pull out a sword. (sword
unsheathing)

LAURA: Just sing like it's a microphone.

SAM: Okay. (singing) Just take a look, it's in a
book, the Scanlan rainbow. I can read anything.

MATT: You watch as the same librarians all of a
sudden stop what they're doing and turn back

towards you. The sword is vibrating and ringing;
it's expanding the notes of your song, as is the

nature of Mythcarver. You seem to have their
attention.

LAURA: Now ask. Now sing and question.

MATT: It's been about 20 minutes, by the way.

LAURA: Oh Jesus. I mean, Ioun.

SAM: (singing) I sing to you in desperation. I'm
looking for a Tome of Isolation. We need to find a

tome, so we can go home and kill a guy named
Vecna. It would really make us... Nothing rhymes

with Vecna.

MATT: Roll a performance check.

SAM: 29.

MATT: You watch as the librarians gather. They're
up above you and they gather closely to you as

you're singing this song and as you finish your
final verse they all look a little confused, and

they all begin to shift as one unit around the
edge of one of the bookcases.

MARISHA: Scanlan! (yells) Scanlan!

SAM: (yells) What?

LAURA: We have an earring.

MARISHA: Oh, right. Sorry.

SAM: It's a library; keep quiet.

MARISHA: Your stories. It's your storytelling.
Keep telling the story about the Calamity. Maybe

if you talk about Vecna some more and what
happened.

SAM: I don't know my history.

MATT: Roll a history check.

DARIN: Tell him "heck, nah" rhymes with Vecna, if
it helps at all.

SAM: 23.

MATT: Vecna didn't have too much involvement in
the Calamity directly. The Calamity mainly

involved the gods battling. It involved the
Chained Oblivion. It involved the sealing of that

deity during one of the major battles of the
Calamity. Those are elements of the history that

pertain to the Calamity that you recall.

LAURA: We're following the little surge of
spectrals.

SAM: Okay. I'm just going to keep talking, I
guess. (rapping) The book we're looking for is

fraught with insanity, It dates back to the time
of Calamity. It's about a guy with oblivion

chains. You know his name.

(laughter)

SAM: (rapping) What's his name, yo? (speaking) I
got nothing.

LAURA: (singing) He's the Chained Oblivion. His name is the
Chained Oblivion.

TRAVIS: (singing) And there's a million things he
hasn't done.

MATT: (singing) Because he's sealed.

MATT, LAURA, TALIESIN and MARISHA: (singing)
Because he's sealed.

TRAVIS: Oh fuck. Lin-Manuel just turned it off.

MATT: Okay. Sorry. All right, so as you continue
to sing, with each beat, each name that's

mentioned that deals with the Calamity and the
Chained Oblivion, you watch as their pace seems to

quicken a bit, and then as the singing slows they
begin to slow down again. There's a specific

correlation and drive between your storytelling
and your singing, and apparently the drive in

which they're pushing towards their--

LAURA: Keep telling the story.

DARIN: Tell them the song about Vecna just might
wreck ya. It's close; it doesn't work.

SAM: Okay, Sprigg, I got it.

MATT: You hear Sprigg yelling from down below, as
he doesn't have an earring.

SAM: (singing) If we don't act soon Vecna might
just wreck ya. (speaking) I got it in there for

you.

DARIN: Thanks. Tell them about your neck, ma.

SAM: Oh yeah. Wait, what?

DARIN: If you're discussing your neck to your
mother, you would-- what? Oh, right. People get

paid for that.

SAM: (whispers) Oh my god.

DARIN: Call back to earlier discussion. And nobody
knows.

LIAM: (singing) God I hope I get it.

SAM: (singing) The book is eight centuries old, or
so I'm told. It's fraught with mystery. It's

teeming with history. So please listen to me and
don't kiss me because I really need this book

right now.

MATT: Roll another performance check.

MARISHA: Yes. Come on.

SAM: No. 22.

MATT: 22. Okay. They continue to push at a brisk
pace and you watch as other of the spectral

librarians begin to gather into this group and is
now a cluster of about 25 of them that are snaking

around these bookcases and traveling at a pretty
fair pace. Which once was walking pace, and then

went to a jogging pace, they're now darting
through. And they're leading you quickly away from

the center of the library where everyone else
seems to be clustered.

So the two of you are following and swooshing
behind them, you're going over and around

bookcases. Some of the bookcases you see have
giant holes in the center and you can dart through

and dive past. The speed is increasing to the
point where the wind is starting to kick up in

your hair and you're amazed at the speed of these
librarians and the fact that they're being driven

by your very song, and also the fact that you have
no idea how far away the rest of your friends are

in this library, and this library seems to just go
on and on and on.

You continue forward for another ten minutes or
so, so you've hit just over the 30-minute mark at

this point, and you feel this little pulse from
the stone. Do you continue to inspire?

SAM: I will do one more. I hope it works. I'll
recite a poem. This little gnomey went to the

heavens. This little gnomey wants to go home. This
little gnomey is looking for a book. This little

gnomey is trusting Ioun. This little gnomey wants
to go wee-wee-wee-wee all the way to this tome.

(cheering)

MATT: Roll a performance check with advantage.

SAM: Natural 20.

(cheering)

MATT: Didn't even need it.

MARISHA: Hashtag blessed.

MATT: So the speed is dangerous to the point where
as trying to follow them you almost lose sight of

them a couple of times. You being the driver of
this, I need you to go ahead and make a perception

check to make sure you can keep them in your
vision.

TRAVIS: Damn, Scanlan got bars, y'all.

LAURA: 22.

MATT: 22. Okay. That's enough. You nearly lose
them a few times and you're like (grunts). You

have to take a second and listen out there and you
see a faint glow of their spectral form in the

distance. There! And so you continue to give
chase. Then eventually, at about the 40-minute

mark or so, you come to the outside. What's
interesting, too, is a lot of these bookcases are

made of different materials. Some of them are dark
wood, light wood, some of them are metal and

various substances. You come to, on the ceiling,
jammed in, a bookcase, but it's made of a very

dark slate gray metal. And it has chains across it
and a series of locks on it.

LAURA: (whispers) I had a feeling it would be a
locked bookcase.

MATT: And you see them, all the librarians are
clustered and circled around it right now.

LAURA: (singing) Can they open it up?

SAM: Oh. (singing) Can you open it up?

TRAVIS: Find somebody that can pick them locks.

MATT: There's no response from them.

SAM: Wait, they can pick books.

MATT: They can pick up books.

LAURA: Vax, can you hear me?

LIAM: I don't know. 500 feet.

MATT: You've been traveling for a while. He
doesn't hear you.

LAURA: I can try to pick it. I can try.

MARISHA: Come on, multiclassing into that rogue
now.

MATT: All right, so you fumble around and quickly
pull out your thieves' tools. All right, go ahead

and roll a d20, add your dexterity modifier and
your proficiency bonus.

LAURA: My proficiency bonus.

SAM: I'm going to inspire her.

MATT: Okay.

SAM: (singing) I'm so vain. I probably think this
song is about me. I'm so vain.

LAURA: Yeah, I got a one on your inspiration.
Thanks for that. But I rolled well so it doesn't

matter. Hopefully. 19 plus my dexterity modifier
plus my proficiency bonus? 30.

SAM: Wow!

LIAM: She rolled a 19.

MATT: The DC was 30.

SAM: It was the inspiration!

LAURA: No, plus inspiration was 31!

MATT: Yeah, the DC on that was 30.

LAURA: Oh, jeebies.

SAM: There are DCs up to 30?!

MATT: Yeah. 30's considered nearly impossible.

MARISHA: We're badasses now.

TRAVIS: What happens when you say that shit?!

MARISHA: No, I'm just saying the difficulties are
going to get harder.

LAURA: Oh, in god realm it will be harder.

MATT: So as you work your way down the chain, you
get through a few of them, and there's one big

lock in the center that's bolted into a big double
doorway, or hinged opening to this bookcase. This

one takes you a few moments to get into.
(clicking) It snaps your lockpick. As soon as you

hear the (tink), your heart sinks, but you still
have a little bit of leverage and you push forward

on the broken pick, and it's just enough to get
the tumbler to click in. Your lockpick is busted;

you're going to have to get a new one. However, it
does open on one side.

LAURA: That's the hardest lock I've ever picked, I
swear!

MATT: You open, and you can see about 25 different
books of different shapes, sizes, colors, all

ancient that are all in this small locked
section.

LAURA: Are any of the spectrals looking at one,
specifically?

MATT: No, they are all just at the side.

LAURA: Can you do your Ioun Stone?

SAM: Sure, I'll blacklight it.

LAURA: Does it glow for anything in particular?

MATT: You take your Ioun Stone, and as you go
across, it doesn't seem to have an effect.

SAM: I'm going to quickly scan the books to see if
any of them look particularly old.

LAURA: Can I read any of them?

MATT: What languages do you know?

LAURA: Elvish, Common, Undercommon, Abyssal, and
Draconic.

MATT: And you?

SAM: Not much! Gnome, Marquesian, and Common.

MATT: There are about ten of them you cannot read.
There is one book that has nothing on the spine;

it's blank. About five of them appear to be in
Abyssal. You, reading through them, a lot of them

talk about-- they are history books that talk about
the Lord of the Hells. There's one that speaks on

rites and rituals of sacrifice. There is one that
talks about the annihilation of a race that no

longers exists in the world during the Age of
Arcanum. There's one that talks about the birth of

the Rune Children. There's all these books that
all talk about different things, but nothing seems

to stand out to you as the tome you might be
looking for.

LAURA: Well, I could potentially grab all of them
and shove them in the Bag of Colding.

SAM: And then what? How many minutes are left, and
how far are we from our friends?

MATT: You have about 15 minutes left and it's
about ten minutes of travel.

SAM: We could take them all back and see if anyone
can read.

LAURA: It seems pretty shitty, dumping them out in
a pile, but I don't know what else to do.

TRAVIS: Yeah. The spirits'll put them back.

SAM: The one that has nothing on the binding. Can
I open that and flip through real quick?

LAURA: I start grabbing other ones and putting
them in the bag.

MATT: You pull out the one with nothing on it.
It's a very thin book; it's only about that wide

or so, it's a dark gray leather. It looks damaged.
Part of it's burnt and scarred on the outside.

There's no words on the cover. You open it up and
it's about four pages that are blank.

SAM: This is the thing.

LAURA: What can you do? Do you have a spell that
lets you see things? Reveals things?

SAM: I do not.

TRAVIS: Talk to it.

SAM: Okay, sure.

LAURA: Yeah! Sing to it or something!

SAM: Sure. I'll sing to a book, Matt. (singing)
Read to me of times gone by. Can it be you're here

when a bunch of gods died? (speaking) Okay. That's
all I got.

MATT: Doesn't seem to have any effect.
Doesn't seem to respond to the singing.

SAM: Don't tell anyone I sang to a book.

LAURA: You just keep singing, I'll keep taking
books. We've got not enough time.

MATT: It takes you about a minute to throw them
all in there haphazardly.

TRAVIS and LAURA: 25 books.

SAM: Let's get back.

MATT: You guys dart back. You get low enough to
the point where you're in between the two

bookcaess. The heights vary and in some case
you're having to suddenly shift up and over to

avoid slamming into the side of the large
bookcase. You're shooting through this-- almost

like an up and down version of the Star Wars entry
to the... Death Star. Thank you, my brain's not

working.

LAURA: My Locate Object never pinged? My
Incantation of Isolation Locate Object?

MATT: Interestingly enough, thank you for
reminding me of that. As soon as he pulled the

book out, the one that he's holding, the one with
no text on it, it pinged.

LAURA: Oh shit, I just grabbed a bunch of books,
but that's the one!

SAM: Are you sure?

LAURA: It's got to be! Keep looking at it while
we're flying, see if you can figure it out!

SAM: Hold it upside down.

LAURA: Hold onto me, though, because we're going
fast.

SAM: I'm going to listen to it.

MATT: Okay. Make an arcana check.

SAM: 13 plus five, 18.

MATT: 18. As you're darting by, you're clutching
your side with your hand around her waist, reading

it. You almost lose it a couple times.

SAM: Plus Jack of All Trades.

MATT: So what's the total?

SAM: 21.

MATT: 21. You get the sense that there is
something magical about it. I would say, you can't

put your finger on it, but what faint arcane
essence that you can sense from your usage of

spells, and the feeling of releasing spells,
the charging and release of arcane energy. You get

the sense of that release from the book. It's
almost wanting something. It's pulling something

very faintly.

SAM: What spell? I don't want to hurt it!

LAURA: Place Mythcarver on it! Place Mythcarver in
it!

SAM: Okay. I'll place Mythcarver on it. I don't
know what to cast on a book!

MATT: Make a dexterity saving throw.

SAM: I'll cast Friends on it.

LAURA: That was almost so bad.

MATT: You cast Friends on it?

SAM: Sure.

MATT: Okay, as you release the cantrip, the book
seems to absorb the magic, but no reaction.

LAURA: 28.

MATT: 28. As you dart around the corner, one of
the shifting bookcases comes right in front of

you, and you just dart out of the way in time.
Scanlan, you barely hold on. I need you to roll a

strength check.

LAURA: Oh god, can I hold onto his wrist to help
out?

SAM: Not good. Strength?

MATT: This would be a strength saving throw,
yeah.

SAM: Ten.

MATT: Ten? The book's like (bouncing) and you
catch it right as it falls and you hold it in your

hand.

TRAVIS: What if you write in it?

LAURA: Yeah, what if you write in it and say,
"Hey, I need the Incantation of Isolation!"

SAM: Write in the book?

TRAVIS: Didn't you ever watch Harry Potter? He wrote
in the book and it wrote back!

SAM: No! I've never watched Harry Potter!

TALIESIN: Who are you?!

TRAVIS: Do you have a quill? Can you write it in?
Can you write something in the book?

SAM: I must have a quill, right? I'm a
storyteller.

MATT: You'd have to pull it out of your pouch,
yeah.

SAM: Okay, I'll pull out my quill.

MATT: And your inkwell?

SAM: Jesus. While we're flying? This seems like a
bad idea. This is a bad idea.

MATT: Do you want to try it?

SAM: No! How about when we land?

LAURA: Did you cast Friends on it? Did it work?

SAM: No. It absorbed the spell and seemed to like
it, but nothing happened.

TRAVIS: What else can you do to imbue it with
magic?

SAM: I have the Ioun Stone, but it doesn't do
anything.

MATT: As you're rushing, make another dexterity
saving throw.

LAURA: Jesus. Oh god. Okay. 27.

MATT: (whoosh) You yank out of the way of another
one that shifts. It's one that goes from ceiling to

floor, it's one solid bookcase that comes right in
the way. You manage to dart around the side. Make

another strength saving throw to hold onto the
book.

SAM: Oh, that's 17.

MATT: 17, okay. The book you hold onto with one
hand, and you pull it back--

SAM: I'll try to cast a more powerful spell into
it without hurting it, though, that's the thing.

If I do Lightning, what if it burns the fucking
book? I'll do Thunderwave on it, right?

MATT: Thunderwave, the 1st-level spell?

LAURA: Don't you have Suggestion?

SAM: Yeah. I'll Dominate Monster, that's a super
high-level spell.

MATT: What level spell is that?

SAM: Eight.

MATT: 8th-level spell, Dominate Monster on the
book? Okay! As you're flying through, you cast the

spell into the book and the book takes the
entirety of the spell into it, and you watch as

suddenly text emboldens across all the pages on
the inside. The book is now filled with

scribblings and writing.

LAURA: What language is it?!

SAM: I don't know, what language is it?!

MATT: It appears to be Common to you.

(yelling)

SAM: It's a notebook! It's somebody who was
figuring this out as they were writing it!

MATT: You glance over your shoulder, and it's
empty.

LAURA: Are you sure something's there?

SAM: Yes, I have a beautiful mind!

(laughter)

MATT: With that, you arc down into the center of
the library where you see the large dome where you

first met Ioun. You're not sure how much time you
have left, but it's down to the wire.

SAM: Do I see any words that say isolation or
incantation or anything?

LAURA: It's a small book.

SAM: I like to read things and really understand.

MATT: The script on the cover seems, in a weird
way, the best I could say is a Google Translate

version, but it loosely translates to the Tome of
Isolation, yes.

LAURA: It's the whole thing!

SAM: It's a cookbook.

TRAVIS: She just asked for the tome, right? You
got it.

LAURA and SAM: Yeah!

MARISHA: Alone: I am Tome.

TRAVIS: She disappeared. Where is she?

LAURA: She's going to reappear, obviously. She
knows we're here.

SAM: Let's go down to her bowl.

LAURA: Yeah, we're at the bowl.

SAM: All right, so let's go down into the bowl and
wait for her to arrive.

MATT: You guys land in the center there. What's
everybody else doing right now?

LIAM: I barrel rolled out of the way as they
rushed by.

TALIESIN: I was sitting on the couch.

TRAVIS: I've been digging through the pillows.

LAURA: Looking for change in the couch?

DARIN: Did you know that "Heck, nah" could rhyme
with Vecna? Did you hear what I said?

SAM: I heard when you yelled it. It was the "Neck,
Ma," that I couldn't come up with a way--

DARIN: If you're speaking to your mother, let's
say, and pointing at your neck.

LAURA: You're such a pain in the neck, Ma!

DARIN: Exactly! Pain in the neck, Ma! Looking for
Vecna, he's a pain in the neck, Ma! Find him? I

say heck nah!

SAM: I wish you would have been chosen by Ioun.

MATT: As soon as that happens, the wind picks up,
and for a moment you close your eyes from the

sudden burst of air into your face. As you reopen
and adjust, there in the center of the dome where

she was before, you see the Knowing Mistress.
There, resting her arms crossed in front of her

robes. She looks out. "Are you to present your
findings?"

SAM: I casually blow the hair out of my face and
walk over to her and say, O mighty goddess, it was

a challenging challenge, but I think you'll be
pretty happy with the results. As I hold up the

book, I'll cast Wrist Pocket and make it
disappear. Oh god, oh it's gone! Just kidding. And

it's back.

MATT: She doesn't flinch.

SAM: This is what we've found for you. I hope it
pleases you.

MATT: "And this is your final choice?"

SAM: You know, we didn't actually look at the
other ten books.

TRAVIS: Regis Philbin.

LIAM: Is that your final answer?

SAM: Yes. With conviction, I firmly believe that
this is the correct book.

MATT: "Very well." She takes it and looks at it.
"It has been a while since I thumbed through these

"pages myself. This will do you well in the coming
fray." And she hands it out to you.

SAM: Can I still see the writing?

MATT: Yeah.

SAM: I'll cherish it always.

MATT: "You, who have wandered the vast library
that surrounds you through your knowledge, through

"your magnetic telling and spinning of yarns,
through your knowledge of history, perseverance,

"and apparently decent grip, have managed to return
to me and complete the challenge I set before you.

"And for that, I grant my grace unto you for the
coming fray, Scanlan Shorthalt." And it's a little

off-putting at first, but in her forehead, where
you saw her two purple eyes, a third eye opens up

in the center of the forehead. It seems to glow
for a second. You watch as on Scanlan, this warmth

fills your body; you stand up straight
instinctually. You guys watch as this strange

purple glow appears in the center of his forehead
in the same place where her eye was.

LAURA: Ugh, you have a third eye!

SAM: Is it cool or is it gross?

TRAVIS and LIAM: It's cool.

SAM: Chicks will dig?

TRAVIS: Yep! Third nip, third eye. You're good.

MATT: It gently fades away. The warmth vanishes
and you're restored to yourself. That given the

case, you have the Tome of Isolation and the
Blessing of the Knowing Mistress.

LIAM: You chose wisely.

SAM: Okay, I gain plus two to my intelligence!
Whoa!

MARISHA: All the timesies?!

SAM: As a bonus action, I can channel the
omniscience of Ioun. For one hour, whenever you

successfully hit a creature with a spell or
attack, you can learn one of the creature's stats

of your choice from the following list: AC,
senses, saving throw bonuses, damage resistances,

damage immunities, damage vulnerabilities. During
this hour, you also have advantage on initiative

rolls and on saving throws. Once this ability is
used, it cannot be used again for a week. Okay!

MARISHA: How many things can you learn about?

SAM: Just one.

LAURA: We can learn what its vulnerabilities are.

LIAM: That's like a game mod for a character.

TRAVIS: It's the gold thing that came with the
original Nintendo Entertainment System. The Game

Genie.

LIAM: I certainly remembered my Charlemagne! Let
my armies be the--

LIAM and TALIESIN: -- rocks and the trees and birds
in the sky.

SAM: The tome: As an action, I can expend a spell
slot of any level higher than three, thank you

Travis. The cover and the pages glow of secret
text of the Rites of Prime Banishment. While

legible, you can spend an action to invoke the
Rites of Banishment against the target. The target

must make a wisdom saving throw. On a failure, the
target is banished and sealed and this book is

immediately teleported to the Endless Atheneeum.
On a success, the text becomes blurred until the

end of your next turn.

LAURA: On a success?

SAM: On a success. On a failure of their saving
throw. Right, yeah?

MATT: If they succeed on their saving throw, they
resist the ability and you cannot read the book

for another turn.

SAM: Got it. Then, after that turn, I can read it
again?

LAURA: What does it say the DC is?

SAM: DC ten. A wisdom saving throw-- oh! That's key
info. Plus five to DC for each Divine Trammel

fused to the target. We've got to be matadors and
attach a bunch of pegs to the thing before we

deliver the killing blow.

LAURA: We literally stick the trammels onto
Vecna?

SAM: We'll be picadors, right? They put the darts
on the back of the bull to soften it up and

(whoosh) killing blow!

MARISHA: And do we have any of these yet?

LAURA: I have one! No, I have a stone.

MATT: You have a stone that supposedly has
something to do with their construction.

MARISHA: But we were supposed to ask Ioun.

LAURA: Yeah, I'm going to.

SAM: No, I think we're done here, guys.

LIAM: We'll just go to Home Depot and get some
trammels.

LAURA: Can I pull out the little pearl of power?

MATT: All right. You pull it out and there it
glows before you. It's bright like a tiny star for

a second and you have to avert your gaze. But
there it is, still warm to the touch. The small

pearl of bright, divine light. "With this
blessing, I hope to be of some aid in the coming

"battle. Also, any questions you may have, I'm here
to answer."

SAM: Yes, so many!

LAURA: How do we make a trammel? We have a stone,
and we want more, I assume.

MATT: "The Prime Trammel you speak of, the
companion to this rite of which you've sought out

"and recovered, the construct is small, but
complex. The design is unknowable for most mortal

"eyes. Each trammel requires a fragment of
divinity. You have one there. That fragment is

"lost until the seal is broken, so it is a very
exhausting process for a deity to give this

"fragment.

"Now, the original trammels that we had utilized
were forged by the hand of the Allhammer atop the

"fiery Core Anvil deep beneath the Ozmit Sea."

MARISHA: Wait, the core?

MATT: "The Core Anvil."

LAURA: In the Ozmit Sea.

MATT: "To seal a god, the number of trammels you
will require depends on how marred the god may be.

"You have an easier chance of applying the trammels
the more wounded the entity is. It is imperfect,

"and it's only been given use the once against the
Chained Oblivion. With the Luck Bringer's

"blessing, we succeeded against the entity. It took
us four trammels and the full might of Pelor upon

"the beast to banish it beyond the veil. However,
the Chained Oblivion's power was fully realized at

"this time.

"Now, the Core Anvil, this was part of the domain
of the Allhammer's greatest creations. It was

"where the first dwarves were given form and
breath, it's where the trammels were carved and

"made in the last great war. It lies beneath the
undersea volcano now known as Scaldseat."

LAURA: Scaldseat?

MATT: "Scaldseat. It sits at the bottom of the
ocean off the eastern coast of Issylra, not far

"from the fishing village known as Shorecomb."

At which point, the third eye flashes in the
direction of Keyleth. Keyleth, a vision fills your

mind suddenly of the shoreline over Issylra. The
cold, cloud-covered sky, but you see below grass

and recent rainfall-covered fields that lead to a
somewhat marshy and mud-covered shoreline. There,

you see a small fishing village leading out to a
rocky beachfront and waves that crest and break

against a drop-off into the ocean. You can see
some low-built docks that lead all the fishermen

in and out into the ocean. The vision pulls you
back miles away from that. You get a sense, as you

see this small column of black smoke that emerges
from the ocean across endless open sea, that is

the signal of where this volcano lies.

The vision fades from you. She leans to you and
says, "Find a way below, through the tunnels of

"toxic fume, unbreathable without proper
preparation, to the Core Anvil and forge these

"trammels. Be warned: There may be protections that
still remain within the forgotten halls of the

"Allhammer, or new denizens that occupy the
subterranean depths. Now, to forge such a trammel,

"however, is an undertaking no mortal has
attempted. To shape the materials would require

"the strength of a titan."

She looks towards you and the eye flashes and
suddenly your mind fills with hundreds of years of

the knowledge of folding heated metals, of the
clinks of lives past, shaping and building weapons

and armor and for a second you pull back and you
can see the large dwarf-like stone form of the

Allhammer, slamming down onto the heated metals of
the Core Anvil. As the vision fades, you know how

to forge, so you are now proficient with
blacksmithing tools.

TRAVIS: Proficient with blacksmithing tools?

LAURA: Awesome! Oh my god, you were a boot maker,
and now you're a weapon maker!

MATT: Suddenly, you understand most of the tools
in Percy's workshop.

TRAVIS: That water's not so evil, after all!

(laughter)

TRAVIS: Wait a minute!

MATT: "But not just the strength of a titan. For
to understand the intricacies of this design will

"also require the ingenuity of a madman." She turns
towards you, Percy.

TRAVIS: Don't look at somebody else, motherfucker.
That's you!

MARISHA: Trying to look away, kid at the back of the
classroom.

LIAM: Percy takes one step behind Keyleth.

TRAVIS: It's like the kid that farts in class and then
looks at the guy behind him.

MATT: The third eye opens once more and flashes.
You see the purple glow in the center of

Percival's forehead for a moment. In an instant,
the intricate designs of the Prime Trammel flood

into your mind, the celestial instructions racing
through like a shock of electricity, the

blueprints spinning like a clear dream, straight
out of Flight of the Navigator, all of the star

charts being crammed at once. With that, it drops
from your mind and you fall to your knees with a

pounding headache.

TALIESIN: I'm not supposed to know that. (groans)

MATT: "And you will only know it for as long as
it's required." She thinks for a second. "We, the

"creators, did breathe the beauty into this world,
we planted the seeds that would blossom into this

"incredible weave of Exandria. However, what is the
purpose of the parent but to teach what they can,

"then set the children free? Some gods rule through
fear, others through love, and others still

"through perceived fate. Destiny has its place, but
the real deception is that you have no choice. A

"path can be groomed before you, but it is you who
must take those steps. Not every rosy walkway

"leads to a better day.

"For me, our greatest purpose has passed the
moment we granted your forbearers the spark to

"seek their own purpose. We now stay to inspire, to
guide, to guard the Gate, to keep the hate of

"ignorance we spawned in our hubris from burning
away everything. The rest is up to you. We need

"you, perhaps, but you do not need us. That is our
gift. You, Fate-Touched, you are the embodiment of

"this truth. All mortal life has potential with or
without the gods. We offer some paths, but it's up

"to you to decide if they are the right ones for
you. Anyway." And she clutches her stomach a

moment. "What more do you ask of me? What more do
you wish to know?"

LIAM: I have questions.

MATT: "Yes, ask."

LIAM: Vecna. You're familiar. You know not where
he is. You know of him.

MATT: "I know as much of his history as I was
allowed to see, yes. Vecna was a force of

"insurmountable intellect among mortals, and his
creative bending of known arcane theory enabled

"many of the powerful artifacts of war that stoked
the flames of the Calamity a century later. His

"contributions were appreciated, but overlooked by
those around him. In his hubris, he sought to

"carve history in his image. He sought forgotten
magics and slew those who shared this same

"knowledge to leave only him standing with it. He
bypassed his own mortality through terrible

"necromantic rites to lichdom, amassing a force of
like-minded followers and hordes of undead

"terrors, then vanished into the Shadowfell to
overtake the dark city of Thar Amphala, where he

"erected the terrible tower Entropis. From this
very seat of power, Vecna harnessed an event

"called the Celestial Solstice. He used this
merging of ley energies and power to reforge

"manses of energy all across Exandria to suit his
needs, opening the portals at his whim within his

"city to anywhere across the world, allowing his
armies to lay siege to anything before him and

"extend his influence and rule. His horde assaulted
a couple of prominent townships, slaughtering

"denizens and forcing old enemies to kneel, before
slaying and raising them as his own.

"One such rival was named Kas, who, upon their
defeat, was offered eternal life through vampirism

"in exchange for swearing fealty to Vecna as his
chief lieutenant. This made Kas into Kas the

"Bloody-Handed. Vecna forged a relic blade for him
with a fraction of his consciousness and gifted it

"to his new lieutenant, and with this, the lich
lord had become a new terror among the rising

"tensions of the bickering nations. Months of
turmoil followed as the shadow of Vecna's

"unstoppable forces struck with precision and those
fled before retaliation. However, the use of the

"Solstice was discovered and reverse-engineered,
allowing the holy army the Beacon of Arms to storm

"his city under the banner of the Dawnfather, led
by the champion Yos Varder.

"Climbing Entropis to face the lich lord in
combat, Yos Varder was struck down by the Undying

"King with a mortal blow. In the final moments of
the hero's life, he witnessed the lieutenant Kas

"turn on his winded master and strike him with the
very blade he was gifted, driven to usurp him, to

"become his own, new lord. The ensuing conflict
left Kas nothing but ash, and utterly destroyed

"Vecna's body, leaving nothing but his left eye and
hand. Yos passed on to the realm of Pelor, due to

"his wounds, and the survivors left the Shadowfell
with tales of victory.

"The terrible artifacts: the eye, the hand, the
sword, were never recovered. The sword is bent on

"vengeance, on hatred for the Whispered One. A
powerful evil drives that sword, but for a just

"end. Should one be able to find and tame such a
thing, it may be of great use.

"That is all I have to offer on the history of
Vecna and I hope it can be of aid to you in your

"coming battle."

TALIESIN: What was the name of the sword?

MATT: "The Sword of Kas."

MARISHA: The Sword of Kas. Okay.

LAURA: Did it have a name?

TALIESIN: Where was it last seen?

MATT: In Thar Amphala, at the scene of the
battle.

MARISHA: Oh! Okay. The Sword of Kas.

LAURA: You don't think?

SAM: I don't think. What are the odds, right?

TRAVIS: It was 800 years ago.

MARISHA and SAM: Different sword.

TRAVIS: Not Craven Edge?

LIAM: I have another question for you.

MATT: "Yes?"

LIAM: You know who I serve.

MATT: "I do. I see the shadows that cling to
you."

LIAM: Vecna seeks godhood, and we understand that
my lady achieved the same. Did you learn anything

from her path that would help us here?

MATT: (sighs) You watch as suddenly her expression
changes. Her mouth falls open ever so gently and

her hair, wavy and calm, seems to curl in but a
moment and lift. Her expression falls to one of

trepidation and horror. "And then there was one
more.

"The ritual is complete. I can sense his
ascension. The cosmos expand to make room.

"Our timetable accelerates." You can see now, her
eyes begin to race back and forth. "It will take

"him some time to understand and utilize his nature
fully. If he expands beyond his avatar, it will be

"more difficult to seal him. The more trammels it
may require and the loss maybe far greater."

LAURA: Do you have a seed of power?

MATT: "Understand," and she leans forward to you.
"I am not Ioun given full form, but a partial

"avatar of my essence given shape by the worship of
my children, as was the Dawnfather that guided you

"here. Our realms are our bodies, and our true
presence held in the hearts of those that grant us

"their faith. To hold purely as an avatar like this
is dangerous, for while it focuses and grants us

"much present power, as we were forced to do in the
Calamity, in the last great war, it may also leave

"us open to grievous injury."

She opens her robe, and there you can see amongst
the olive-gold skin, you see a large darkened gash

that still festers, unhealed to this day, of
black, curling void. As you look at this open

wound, you feel yourself drawn toward it; your
vision begins to be pulled towards this infinite

nothing. She closes it. You can see a bit of sweat
dripping from the brow.

"The cost was great, but necessary. Vecna's
ascended being is fresh. He will need to expand

"his worship vastly to learn how to disseminate his
power and claim his domains. What he will need for

"this to happen is a display of unstoppable power,
a miracle of terror, a wave of despair that would

"occupy the hearts of many in but a moment. I know
not his method, but I know enough of his ways to

"assume there's already a plan in motion and has
been for some time. If you can strike before he

"claims his full ascension, before he can seize his
dominion on this plane, than you may still have a

"chance."

She turns to you, Scanlan. "You are the teller of
tales, one who enlivens the world through song and word.

"Take this fragment of my own story and help craft
the passages of the world's future." She reaches

into the center of her robe, and almost seems to
be into her chest and plucks forth a small, gray

gem about the size of a peanut. It glows faintly,
and as she removes it, you hear a terrible

creaking sound throughout the library. You watch
as books plummet from the darkness above and slam

into the ground around you. Distant cases crack
and bow. The roar of the damaged space echoes to a

halt, the danger seemingly in control. "There. I
can spare no more. I must rest and concentrate."

DARIN: I have something of you inside of me. Would
it help you?

MATT: She smiles. "I could use a steward for a
moment. Someone eager to learn and relearn some

"important lessons. Ethred Brokenbranch."

DARIN: That's me!

MATT: "Would you be so kind as to help an old
woman tend to her books a bit?"

DARIN: It would be my pleasure. I didn't believe
in you. I didn't think you were real, but I found

out that things aren't what we seem. And things
can change. It would be my honor. (stammers) Could

I say goodbye?

MATT: "Of course."

DARIN: Also, do you know where there's an imp by
the name of Demistrik and if he's all right?

MATT: "He's fine for now."

DARIN: I'm not asking for me. The nice lady with
the antlers wanted to know.

MATT: "He's fine, but woe to those who live in the
home in Kraghammer where he's currently rooted."

DARIN: He's a very bad performer. I'll be right
with you.

MATT: "Of course."

DARIN: Well, then. This is different! I don't
think I'm going to be alone anymore. I asked you

for power, but it seems like you gave me
strength.

TRAVIS: Oh. I'm glad to hear that.

DARIN: Thank you. And you. You called me darling.
No one ever did that before. (growl)

LAURA: (tongue click) I kiss him on the forehead.

DARIN: Well! Oh dear me. Oh goodness gracious. Be
happy. Life is loud and noisy, and it's a

celebration. I didn't know that. So once in a
while, with what little time we have, be happy. I

was wrong about you, you know.

SAM: Me?

DARIN: Oh, you're far greater than I will ever be.
If only I could be a mirror of you.

SAM: Thank you, Sprigg, for everything. We've only
known you a short time--

DARIN: I'm only a short person. (laughs) You can
have that one for free. Okay, good. Go on.

SAM: No, you've taught us much in a short time,
and I'm sorry that we broke your house, but it

seems like you've found a suitable replacement.

DARIN: Well, a lot of books in here. That's going
to keep me busy. And you (groans) secrets.

Celebrate it with your friends. Remember that. And
when I look at these books, I'm going to think of

you.

TALIESIN: That pleases me.

DARIN: Oh, good.

TALIESIN: Be happy here.

DARIN: (laughs) I think you're going to be the
hardest to say goodbye to, because you cared. No

one ever cared before. That's why they called me
Sprigg. I wasn't good enough to be a Brokenbranch.

I was just a sprig. That's how I got my name.

MARISHA: If only people knew that sprigs give
foundation to the entire tree.

DARIN: Thank you.

MATT: She extends her hand to you.

DARIN: Well, this is new.

MATT: "And should your friends succeed, there is
far much more to look forward to learning."

DARIN: Excellent. But some of those little wispy
things, I don't trust them, you know. If they get

out of order, we should wispy thing grab. How will
we remember that?

MATT: "This is going to be a very good
conversation to have."

DARIN: We need a mnemonic device. Come! We'll
think of one.

MATT: "Very well. We shall. As for the rest of
you, I feel my power is waned, and I don't have

"the means of sending you away myself. But if you
are able to return under your own power?"

MARISHA: (whispers) Of course.

MATT: "Then I wish you all the greatest of luck.
And please, don't be a stranger."

LAURA: Oh! I have your books.

SAM: Oh, yes. 24 of them.

LAURA: I think they were really secret ones, so I
would hate to take those out of here.

MATT: You watch as three spectral servants
apparate behind you and pick up the books and

begin to take them back to be organized. "Not to
worry. Travel safe, my friends. And Scanlan, don't

"ever forget how important you are to them, to
Kaylie, and to yourself. You owe yourself far more

"that you lend."

SAM: I will remember.

DARIN: Goodbye.

TRAVIS: Bye, Sprigg.

LAURA: Take care, darling.

MARISHA: Bye, Sprigg.

SAM: Until next time.

DARIN: That's good. Off we go, then.

MATT: "Come, my friend." She takes his hand and
stands up, and they both begin to walk away and as

it does there's a slight increase of light in the
room. There's a flash, and then as it slowly comes

back to a normal sight, you find yourself back at
the entrance almost bathhouse-like area of the domain

where you arrived, the marble slightly more
cracked that you left it before, but still

standing.

LIAM: Enjoy the other side, Sprigg.

LAURA: I go up to Percy. Are you all right, dear?

TALIESIN: Strangely, yes. Yes, quite. Didn't think
I would be.

MARISHA: Vax. Is that what's going to happen when
you leave?

LIAM: (whispers) I don't know.

MARISHA: Okay. Shall we?

LAURA: Where are we going?

TALIESIN: Back to where we came from.

TRAVIS: In the beginning? Or more recently?

TALIESIN: Back to the cabin.

SAM: The cabin?

TALIESIN: The little house.

SAM: You mean Sprigg's cabin? Why would we go
there?

TALIESIN: Because we still have a man tied up.
He's been sitting there for probably about an hour

or two.

SAM: Who?

TRAVIS: Oh yeah, the guy that you put in the
shackles.

SAM: I'm sure he's fine. Let's just go to
Whitestone.

TRAVIS: But we want to get the shackles back.

SAM: Oh, it's the shackles.

TALIESIN: Well, I want to talk to him, too, but
yes.

SAM: We're going for the shackles.

LAURA: They're pretty cool.

TALIESIN: They are pretty impressive.

SAM: But she said the timetable is shortened.

TALIESIN: Why are we going to Whitestone, then?

SAM: We have to find this place in the middle of
the ocean.

TALIESIN: Well, now that we know where it is, you
can probably bamf us there, can't you?

LIAM: I need to go Whitestone or to Vasselheim.

MARISHA: Before we go to Issylra? Wait. Is
Vasselheim on Issylra? How close did I recognize

the shore--

MATT: Shorecomb? Shorecomb is about 200, 250 miles
away from Vasselheim, to the southwest.

MARISHA: Southwest, going towards Pyrah. Okay.

MATT: Beyond Pyrah, along the coast.

MARISHA: Start there. I should be able to Tree
Stride us right there. Right?

LAURA: From the cabin to Vasselheim?

MARISHA: I think so.

MATT: None of the particular trees you got a close
look at. You may have to scry to get a specific

tree in mind for the spell, but you can do that.

LAURA: Pike, you seem very quiet.

MATT: Pike goes, "I'm sorry, I'm just overwhelmed.
There's a lot going on."

TRAVIS: I know when I feel overwhelmed I like to
punch things. You want to hit me?

MATT: "Okay." (punching noise) And she socks you
in the gut.

TRAVIS: (groans) Too strong. Oh, such a monster.

MATT: "Sorry." And she Cures Wounds on you.

TRAVIS: Thank you.

MARISHA: I burn my 8th-level spell to Plane Shift
us back to Sprigg's house.

MATT: All right. As you all gather hands together,
with the familiar flash and a pull through the

Divine Gate, you all find yourselves thrust once
more back to the Prime Material Plane. As your

feet land squarely in the partially charred,
wooded remains of Sprigg's house, deep in a ravine

in the Cliffkeep Mountains of Tal'Dorei in
Exandria. And that's where we're going to take a

break.

SAM: Wow.

TRAVIS: Fudge knuckles.

MATT: Darin. Thank you so much for joining us.

TRAVIS: Darin De Paul!

(applause)

MATT: Dude. Thank you for coming.

DARIN: It had to happen. It's history. It's a
journey.

MARISHA: 35 years?

DARIN: 37.

MATT: It's crazy. I love it.

DARIN: And who knows? Maybe something will happen.
Yeah, in another 37 years! We'll do this again!

MATT: There you go. Hopefully sooner, but yeah.

DARIN: Thank you guys.

SAM: It was a pleasure. We know you just came on
this show so you could get onto Talks. But we'll

take it anyway.

MARISHA: Yeah, you could have just asked if you
wanted to meet Brian Foster.

DARIN: His hair is so cool.

LAURA: He's got a good beard.

MATT: All right, guys, so before we go, we'll have
a giveaway during the break in which we're giving

out this awesome-- oh god, this awesome pieces of
pieces. This is the purpleheart dice tower from

Wyrmwood. The same color that you use to assemble
your awesome magnetic dice tower from Wyrmwood.

What was the word we chose?

OFFSCREEN: Knowledge.

MATT: Thank you. Knowledge. The word in the chat
room is knowledge.

MARISHA: I thought you said college.

SAM: I did, too.

MATT: Yeah. Go to college, kids. But yeah, so go
over to the Twitch chat, and when prompted, go

ahead and enter the word knowledge to enter the
giveaway. And we'll have the announcement of who

won that when we come back from the break. See you
guys in a few minutes.

[break]

MATT: And welcome back, everybody. Couple of
things. First off, couple of mid-show

announcements we forgot to mention. One, Laura did
Signal Boost, which you just saw!

(cheering)

MATT: It's a good one. Second, if you haven't seen
it already, we announced at Comic-Con that we are

doing a Critical Role comic book.

(excited noises)

MATT: We're super excited. It's written by good
friend of the show Matt Colville. If you're not

familiar with his stuff, you should. He's written
a couple of books, he's written a lot of video

game stuff and he's very talented.

LIAM: The dialogue is to die for.

MARISHA: He is on this week's episode of GM Tips.

TALIESIN: You can check him out, right there.

MATT: He has a great YouTube channel. He's a good
friend of the show and his writing is amazing. And

our artist, Olivia Samson, who is a Critter artist
in the community for quite some time. We wanted to

pull somebody from the community to bring the story
to life of how Vox Machina came together, how they

met. And then, if it goes well, continue to do the
story of all the pre-stream adventures that you

guys didn't get a chance to see. That's the goal,
we'll see, long-term. We're happy to announce it.

We'll have more information in the future about it
as it comes out.

LIAM: I've seen most of the art for issue one and
it is fucking legit!

LAURA: I haven't seen it!

LIAM: Oh, well.

SAM: If I may, Matt? Music level, split the
difference.

TRAVIS: And to EmeraldStar in the chat, who named
their puppy Grog, that's awesome.

MATT: That is awesome. Congrats on your puppy!
There is a winner. Well, the puppy named Grog. And

the winner of the giveaway is FluffyArsonist.
FluffyArsonist, congratulations, Danoba will

contact you to get your information and get that
shipped out to you.

TRAVIS: Hard to be mad at an arsonist when they're
fluffy.

MATT: It's hard. All righty, so. Diving back in.
You guys were returning to Whitestone? Where were

you going?

MARISHA: Sprigg's.

MATT: Oh, Sprigg's cabin, correct. As the surge of
momentum comes to a halt and your feet once again

touch the ground here within the somewhat-charred
remains of Sprigg's cabin, you look about. The

crickets have taken the surrounding forest. Night
has fallen since your exit. What would you like to do?

TRAVIS: Are there any threatening creatures in the
vicinity?

MATT: Make a perception check.

LAURA: Can I look, too, because we'd been fighting
when we left, so I'm going to make sure--

TRAVIS: Don't worry, it's a 14.

MATT: You glance about very quickly at the
surrounding woods and trees, and aside from a

squirrel that scatters upon the sound of your
footfalls--

LAURA: Careful of traps. They're still in place.

TRAVIS: Yeah, the squirrel goes (running
noise, explosion).

LAURA: Bear trap.

LIAM: Slams two feet above it, though.

TALIESIN: I'm going to go into the room and find
the nice creature that we left there.

MATT: As you walk amongst the rubble, you see
there, trapped within the iron cage-like manacles

and bindings of the small iron ball, you see the
slathering tongue of the undead entity that you

had entrapped. (slobbering noises)

TALIESIN: Oh, I don't suppose we need you any
more, do we? I'm going to take out my sword and

very slowly end that.

MATT: (pained noises) You see it squeal out as you
slowly saw your way into its body until it lies

still once more, robbing it of its second death.

TALIESIN: Manners!

MATT: The ball retracts.

LAURA: While he was doing that, I want to stealth
away with my brother for a moment and say, I'm

sorry. About everything.

LIAM: How far away did you just pull me?

LAURA: Far enough that nobody can hear us.

MATT: Make an investigation check.

LAURA: Jesus Christ. Ten. God damn it.

MATT: As you pull him off, you get three steps
from the building before (crash) a heavy, iron

bear trap snaps onto your leg.

TRAVIS: Outstanding!

LAURA: Thank you. Thank you, Matt.

SAM: We're basically gods.

(laughter)

TRAVIS: The words were uttered.

MATT: 11 points of piercing damage and you are
currently grappled.

LAURA: I deserved that. That's karma.

LIAM: Let's get it off your foot. I'll help her
pull it off.

MATT: Okay. Between the two of you, it takes you a
moment, but you manage to peel it off. The wounds

aren't too bad.

LIAM: I cast Lay on Hands. You're back to normal.
You're fine. Your boot's ripped up. All right,

watch your step. Come on. Past it all.

LAURA: Oh, okay.

LIAM: Yeah.

LAURA: I'm going to not move, though, because I
don't want to step on another one of those fucking

things.

MARISHA: While Keyleth chuckles about that a
little bit, I'm going to look around and find a

little piece to remember Sprigg by from his house
to take with me.

TALIESIN: I'm going to check through the books to
see if there's anything.

MARISHA: And then I'll help him check the books
once I've grabbed something.

MATT: Make an investigation check, each of you.

TALIESIN: 22.

MARISHA: Yours is much better than mine. Five.

MATT: Five. You find some elements of
partially charred pipes, some small statues that

were destroyed in the recent battle. You find some
unkept plants that were plotted and then left to

dry out. There are many things here that you could
take if you wanted to have memory of him.

MARISHA: Does this rusty bolt represent Sprigg?

TALIESIN: No. I think that may have actually come
with us, that might have been us.

MARISHA: I'll regrow this plant later.

MATT: There you go.

MARISHA: Sprigg.

MATT: While you search through books, you pull Vax
off to the side.

LIAM: Can I ask you a question?

LAURA: Yes.

LIAM: First, I'm very happy for you.
Congratulations!

LAURA: Thank you.

LIAM: I've seen it coming for a long time.

LAURA: I didn't.

LIAM: Well, you're smart in a lot of other ways.
I'm so happy; he makes you so happy, and when I

go, you're in good hands. And he's in good hands.
He's getting the better end of the bargain.

LAURA: Yeah, I think so, too. I didn't plan it. If
I had, I would have told you. And then when I saw

you, it seemed like bad timing to say anything,
and then things kept happening. (sighs)

LIAM: Well, Stubby, I spent so many years standing
at your side. I guess I thought on that day, I'd

be standing at your side.

LAURA: I know. It was very spur-of-the-moment.
Nobody was standing at our side, except for each

other.

LIAM: Well, under ordinary circumstances, I would
be giving you quite an earful, but there's nothing

ordinary about any of this. I don't have time to
be upset at my oldest friend. I just don't have

time. So I love you. And I'm happy for you.

LAURA: I don't want you to go. I love you.

LIAM: You know I love you. Would you do me one
favor? When I'm gone-- I don't know, we could be

dead tomorrow.

LAURA: We could. I could die before you.

LIAM: She's probably going to outlast you, but
while you're around, keep her company for me?

LAURA: If she ever talks to me again, I swear I
will.

LIAM: Well, what you've got going for you is you
look a lot like me. You can remind her of me once

in a while.

LAURA: Good call.

LIAM: Hey. It's okay. Happy for you.

LAURA: Thank you.

LIAM: Watch out for bear traps.

LAURA: Thank you.

LIAM: And I make a perception check as I walk back
by myself.

(laughter)

MATT: Yeah, you've traced your path back, you
manage to avoid the traps easily this time being

far more aware of the surroundings. In the
meantime, while you two are rummaging through the

household.

MARISHA: We're looking through the books, yeah.

TALIESIN: Looking through books.

MARISHA: Do you think we'll ever have gods in our
lives?

TALIESIN: You know...

MARISHA: I don't think they fancy us much. I don't
really fancy them, though, so I guess that's fair.

They're allowed that.

TALIESIN: I'm not angry.

MARISHA: (sighs) Me neither.

TALIESIN: My books are still lovely, the library
is still lovely. It made a lot of things better.

MARISHA: You know, I felt really guilty about it
for a while, like something was wrong with me? I

don't understand why I didn't feel it, why I
didn't understand. I don't think it was until

Sarenrae and even Ioun just now mentioned that we
serve that balance and that non-believers are

necessary. It made me feel like a little bit less
of a fuck-up, I guess, in this whole situation.

TALIESIN: I think you're just fine. (laughs)
Mostly.

MARISHA: Apparently, you're a madman.

TALIESIN: Apparently.

MARISHA: A god called you a madman.

TALIESIN: I know. Honestly, I'm a little touched.

MARISHA: It's kind of a compliment.

TALIESIN: Yeah, if it weren't for the migraine.
I'm sorry, by the way. You may be the only one who

understands this, but I needed something that was
mine for a little while. So little of who we are

is ours, and I knew it would end, but it was
nice.

MARISHA: Wow.

TALIESIN: Ioun is quite a goddess, and she does
not respect secrets, though. I, on the other hand,

feel that secrets can be precious.

MARISHA: Apparently. I just don't understand why
you were still enigmatic after you already told us in

front of Pelor. It's kind of a slap in the face.

TALIESIN: Well, I thought she may kill me at
that point. I was honestly fearing for my life

there a little bit, and at that point everything
was so awkward.

MARISHA: I hope you know my frustration is only
out of-- well, what you just said, I guess.

Wanting something to be mine that I won't have.

TALIESIN: Well, we'll see. I don't know.

MARISHA: Some things you don't get to keep.

TALIESIN: Yes, one of the bonuses of not being one
of the chosen of the gods is we don't have to

believe in destiny. We just, I think, heard a big
speech from a god about not believing in destiny.

MARISHA: I followed destiny my whole life. It
wasn't until I got to the end that I realized the

whole thing was ironic.

TALIESIN: Why do we have to listen to anything
they say?

MARISHA and TALIESIN: Cheers.

MARISHA: Cheers to the faithless. I kind of
inhaled a little bit.

TALIESIN: That was a plant. You've been holding a
plant and I've been holding a book. That got

weird.

MARISHA: I don't even know where we got these
glasses in the story.

TALIESIN: I think that was legitimately you were
still holding a potted plant.

MARISHA: Oh god. (spluttering) This coffee's been
there for a while.

SAM: Crudite? Crudite?

(laughter)

TALIESIN: How does it feel to be chosen by a
goddess at this point?

SAM: Who, me?

TALIESIN: Yes, you! I know you've been listening.

TRAVIS: No, I pull Scanlan aside.

TALIESIN: We all watch.

SAM: A moment alone, please.

TRAVIS: I want to see it.

SAM: My cube?

TRAVIS: No, the seed. The little bean.

SAM: You want to see it?

TRAVIS: Yeah, I want to see it.

SAM: All right.

TRAVIS: Is it squishy?

SAM: Didn't you do this before with the other
one?

TRAVIS: Did I?

SAM: Didn't you try to squish it or something?

MARISHA: That was the grain of sand.

TRAVIS: I don't know what any of you are talking
about. Are you giving it to me? Yep. I've got it.

Over here. (sniffs) What does it smell like?
(deep inhale) What does it smell like?

MATT: Make a perception check.

LAURA: It's a seed of power, Grog.

TRAVIS: Don't fucking rob me of my discovery. 11.

MATT: Best you can make out, it smells like dusty
tomes. It smells like old, forgotten papers and

parchment.

TRAVIS: Smells like old money. It's been tucked in
that old boob crevice. I want you to swallow the bean.

SAM: Swallow the bean?

TRAVIS: Think about Sprigg, right? His tummy was
glowing like fucking Teddy Ruxpin. I want to see

you swallow that shit.

SAM: Sure. All right, I will mime swallowing the
bean while I Wrist Pocket it.

TRAVIS: (gasps) Oh my god! What, are you crazy? I
was only kidding!

MATT: Make a sleight of hand check.

SAM: Five.

MATT: Grog, make a perception check.

TRAVIS: I lose these every time, no matter how low
it is. Eight. Nope. That's a six minus one, which

is five.

(laughter)

MATT: You all watch as he takes the small essence
stone and whispers under his breath a small

incantation and flicks his fingers, then it
vanishes, and he goes-- it's so overt, yet you are

entranced. He swallowed that thing!

TRAVIS: I hope you know what you're doing. Do we
get time with you before you leave?

SAM: I trust you 100 percent, Grog.

LIAM: Scanlan just did the trick I do with my kids
all the time, which is watch! One, two, three.

It's gone!

(laughter)

TRAVIS: Where did that pencil go?! I pick Scanlan
up by the scruff of his neck, and I hold my ear to

his tummy.

MATT: Make a perception check.

TRAVIS: Nine!

SAM: My stomach exists.

MATT: Yeah. You hear the occasional (grumbling).

TRAVIS: Oh my god. It's growing. Tell me your last
rites before you burst, if it happens.

SAM: I leave all of my worldly possessions to you,
Grog.

TRAVIS: Oh shit. Write that down, somebody?

LAURA: I've got it, Grog. I've got it.

TRAVIS: I'm holding him up like a seashell.

TALIESIN: Shake him a bit. It will stop the
reaction.

LAURA: Stop manhandling Scanlan!

TRAVIS: Why?

LAURA: Because he doesn't like it.

TRAVIS: Do you not like it?

SAM: Ordinarily, yes, but not today.

(laughter)

SAM: When I pass it, I'll retrieve the item.

TRAVIS: Oh shit.

SAM: Exactly.

TALIESIN: He's keeping it secret. Keeping it
safe.

TRAVIS: You lost me.

TALIESIN: I know.

LAURA: We probably need to hurry.

TALIESIN: This is going to be an odd request.
Let's not go to Whitestone.

TRAVIS: Why not?

TALIESIN: I feel like we're being watched.

LAURA: Maybe Vasselheim?

SAM: How did they know we were here?

LAURA: Why didn't we ask Ioun about that?

SAM: Why did you just kill the assassin guy that
we were going to ask?

TALIESIN: It was an undead thing. It was just
going to make a tongue at us.

MATT: "He wasn't really going to offer
information, anyway."

SAM: Who are you?

MARISHA: Who the fuck are you?

TRAVIS: That's Vecna.

LAURA: Is that the imp?

MATT: No. Standing by the doorway, you see there,
arms crossed, casually standing before you:

Vecna.

(shouting and screaming)

MATT: (laughs) "Welcome back. You must have
traveled quite a distance to be far from my sight."

LAURA: Is he see-through? I try to shoot an arrow
at him.

MATT: Okay, roll for an attack.

LIAM: Cocked.

LAURA: No, that's not cocked. Cocked! 29.

MATT: 29. (whoosh) It passes through his body.

LAURA: I fucking knew it.

MATT: He laughs for a second, and you see him
smiling his terrible grin across curled, yellowed

teeth. You see that flicker of green energy
sparking in his left eye. It seems to pulse as his

brow arches above it. "I admire your resolve. You
did it. You solved the riddle. You found my home,

"ruined my tower, slew one of my greatest acolytes,
and even then, you failed. Still, impressive. That

"is most definitely worthy of a fine round of
applause."

LAURA: Thank you.

MATT: The smug clapping comes to a halt. He nods.
"You're the only ones to get away. Others found me

"before you did, and another group of supposed
heroes came and assaulted me shortly after you

"vanished. No matter. They all failed. And rose
again."

TALIESIN: Perception check.

LAURA: Insight, maybe?

MARISHA: Insight. Is he fucking lying?

MATT: Insight check? Go for it, if you want to
make one.

LAURA: Who was it? Natural 20.

MARISHA: Oh yes!

LAURA: Thanks for double-checking. It is. Like I
would lie about a natural fucking 20.

LIAM: That's a six. She's lying.

MARISHA: 22.

SAM: Whispers?

LAURA: He's the god of secrets! What do you
expect?

LIAM: The pencils are adorable.

MARISHA: They are so cute.

SAM: You know what, guys? I didn't know that this
was ever a thing.

LIAM: You didn't know we were making pencils?
Don't you remember the holy Vox Machina text

thread?

MARISHA: We definitely sent them in the text
thread.

SAM: We've thrown out so many cool ideas on that
text thread.

LAURA: When I say, hey, name your quote on the
text thread, then you send in a quote, that means

it's probably pretty solid.

SAM: I get asked for personal quotes all the
time.

MATT: "Consider your path one of earned existence.
I would recommend you not waste such a rare lease

"on your arrogant lives."

LIAM: I'm going to walk right up to him while he's
talking and inspect his ugly fucking face.

MATT: You see through his beautifully adorned
crushed velvet robes with gold trim. You see the

tattered edges where gems and baubles hang around
his neck. You can see the tendons and muscle that

are pulled taut against his skin, that is drawn
against his nearly-skeletal frame. He smiles back

at you, looking down from that one sickly, almost
pale blue iris and that green glowing burst of

energy where his other eye would be.

LIAM: How's that eye socket doing, friend?

MATT: "Well, these are the concerns of a mortal.
My vision sees far more than it once did."

MARISHA: While he's rambling, can Keyleth be
looking for the nearest big-ass tree?

MATT: Sure. There's plenty of big-ass trees in
your area.

TRAVIS: Booby traps.

MARISHA: Any clear path of least resistance?

MATT: Look at all these big-ass trees.

TALIESIN: Also, is there anybody in the forest?

MARISHA: Natural 19.

MATT: There's plenty to see, and you don't see
anybody else nearby in the forest.

MARISHA: Path of least resistance without traps?

MATT: Yeah, you see a path you can take.

LIAM: I'm not entirely certain I am mortal
anymore.

MATT: "I know what you are, and I know you know
where I am. Come to me whenever you like."

LIAM: Oh, fuckstick, we are coming.

MATT: "Are you all too bloody daft to see? It's
over. I'm no longer the Undying King. I am the

"King of all Kings. I am not the Scourge in Secret.
I am the Tyrant Unmatched."

LIAM: Yes, you're very grand. And I begin to
fingerfuck his eyehole in the illusion. So

majestic.

MATT: As soon as your finger goes forward, his
image flickers out and appears in the same room,

behind you, now right up against Percy and
Scanlan.

MARISHA: We need to go.

MATT: "I am Vecna the Unholy. I am god upon
Exandria. I come to play with the toys left by

"insolent, forgotten ancients and make this world
into a new epoch. What this means, however, is an

"end to all. An end to borders and nations. There
will only be the will of Vecna. So. Ask

"yourselves. You want peace? There is no peace, the
way things are. You all bicker and stab and murder

"in the names of your mothers, your fathers. But
this one? Everyone will live, and when they die,

"that need not be the end, either, under my banner.
I can see your every move. I know your plot. I

"know your destination. I know your plan, your
capabilities, your allies, and your imminent

"demise, should you continue. I offer you the
chance to stand down, discard your imprisoned

"gods, and pledge to me. Many you love will. Many
you love already have."

TRAVIS: (laughs) I love it when they come begging
for a truce. That means he's scared.

MATT: "Is it more important to throw away your
lives against an unstoppable god or to return to

"your families--"

LIAM: Grog, I think you're right.

MATT: "If you persist, I will not only destroy
you, I will erase the memory of you ever existing

"from the mind of anyone you've ever known or cared
for."

LAURA: I don't think you have that power.

MATT: "Then try me."

TALIESIN: I think, as generous as this offer is,
we just don't enjoy associating with new money.

Let's get out of here now.

MATT: "Very well."

LAURA: I only serve gods with big dicks.

MATT: "Enjoy the forge."

MARISHA: I point out the path. That way! Go!

MATT: As the portal opens and you guys go darting
off in that direction, you hear in the distance

the (cackles). One after another, you all jump
through the portal, emerging?

MARISHA: In Vasselheim.

MATT: In Vasselheim. (poof noise) All of you dart
out just as the dusk sun begins to hit on the

distant mountains this far across the ocean.

MARISHA: I look around. Is there Vecna anywhere to
be seen?

MATT: Nowhere.

TALIESIN: We need sanctuary. Can you make your
mansion?

SAM: Right now?

TALIESIN: We need to rest, eventually, and you
need to commune. We'd better assume we're being

seen and heard at all times.

LAURA: I wonder if he can see us in your
dimension?

TALIESIN: Maybe not.

SAM: I don't think so.

TRAVIS: He said, of Exandria.

MARISHA: He said he couldn't see us when we were
in the library.

LIAM: Where do I feel him now? Same distance?

MATT: Same distance. Same place.

TALIESIN: Let's do this quick. We need to rest.
You need to talk. There's much to do, and this

does not feel good.

LAURA: Go to Raven Queen's temple right now?

SAM: Raven Queen or the mansion?

LAURA: Maybe we can do the mansion outside of her
temple?

SAM: Sure.

TALIESIN: Or even inside.

TRAVIS: Vasselheim doesn't take very kindly to
magic stuff.

LAURA: We'll be in her temple.

MARISHA: Aren't you also wanted here, right now?

TALIESIN: I will literally shoot anybody who
attempts to deal with it. Give him your hat.

MATT: The first thing you guys notice as you take
in your surroundings: even though dusk is

happening, there seems to be a larger bustle than
you're used to in Vasselheim. You begin to see

there's a skyship at port, and a lot of the
various Bastions-- the general Bastions, the

volunteer army that run across much of the city--
you see them darting back and forth, carrying

supplies. There's a buzzing energy to the air of
the city that you haven't seen in a while.

TALIESIN: I'm going to grab someone, at some
point.

MARISHA: I did tell the Ashari to start alerting
the nearby towns.

MATT: You grab a gentleman who runs past you, he
has a greying beard with patches of black still,

his top of his head is shaved bald and you can see
a bit of a tattoo across one half of his face that

curls into his ear. He's rushing with a cluster of
spears under one arm, and he's wearing hide armor

on his chest.

TALIESIN: You there! What is the commotion?

MATT: "Apparently, we're gearing up for some sort
of assault."

TALIESIN: How soon?

MATT: "We don't know. We've just been told to
prepare."

TALIESIN: Who told?

SAM: Probably us.

TALIESIN: I just want to find out where it came
from.

MATT: "The chain of command from the top of the
Bastions, as well. Apparently, from some of the

"other temples here are speaking of some entity,
some Vecna."

TALIESIN: Good man. Carry on. Prepare.

MATT: "Very well."

MARISHA: I bet whenever he ascended, all the
clerics felt it.

LAURA: We'll be fighting undead, more than
likely.

MATT: "Very well." He goes to run off, two of his
compatriots stop and turn and give a slow glance

of recognition towards Grog.

LAURA: Keep running. They've got bigger things
happening right now, just keep running.

MATT: You guys continue. They stare for a second,
then keep running, they look to be preoccupied.

But you get the sense that at least word of
someone matching your image has been disseminated

throughout the town.

TRAVIS: I am quite famous.

SAM: Do you want me to disguise you?

TRAVIS: Sure, why not. What am I looking like?

SAM: Take this hat--

TRAVIS: I have to attune to it; it takes forever.

SAM: Fuck! All right, I'll cast Seeming on you. On
all of us. Because I can.

TRAVIS: Will you make me look like Tary?

LAURA: No, what?

(laughter)

LAURA: That's not smart!

TRAVIS: Well, it's not like he was in the room
where it happened.

TALIESIN: The room where it happened?

MATT: The room where it happened.

LAURA: Keep running toward the Raven Queen temple
as that's happening.

MARISHA: We should probably try and use our words
as much as possible.

SAM: Blue and a foot smaller, like Blue Man Group.
Black clothes, blue face, bald.

MATT: So you have a little more of an aasimar
appearance, though a larger one than you've seen.

(laughter)

MATT: All right, where are you guys charging off
to?

LIAM: Yeah, Raven Queen temple.

MATT: Okay, you're heading to the Raven's Crest.
All right. You make your way to the--

MARISHA: I'm going to keep looking around, make
sure no one's tailing us.

MATT: Okay, make a perception check.

MARISHA: 21.

MATT: 21? All right. Keeping an eye out, you don't
see anybody following you at the moment. That does

not appear to be an issue. So you head to the area
of the Duskmeadow, to the southeast of the city.

You come through the dry, cold, and dusty sector.
A little bit of snow appears to have melted into

slush at the corners, but most of it has been
pushed off the main roads to the side. You see

dirty snow matted at the edges. You follow Vax
very quickly through the streets, and you see a

few of the veiled maidens of the Raven's Crest
aerie taking note of you. And as you approach,

they just point over to the Raven's Crest silently
as you walk past.

LAURA: Quickly. Quickly walk past.

LIAM: I'm going to walk up the steps and push open
the door.

MATT: You're coming from the other side as opposed
to the main entrance so you rush past the hall

that goes, which is the Grand Library that's
attached to the Raven's Crest.

LIAM: Everybody's with me, right?

MATT: Yeah, And you come to the front doors, they
are closed currently, but you have two of the

maidens there at the front, and as you begin to
turn from the side, they glance over and give

notice, and then turn and push the doors open in
preparation. With that, you all enter Raven's

Crest itself, and looking within, you can see the
beautiful interior of carved obsidians and gold

trims and sigils that are marked and pushed
throughout the interior of this structure. Are you

leading them to the central chamber?

LIAM: Yeah, I'm bringing everybody with me.

MATT: Okay. No one stops you, and as you head up
these stairs into the second chamber and then

finally to the large set of doorways that lead you
into the central communion chamber of Raven's Crest, you

guys enter to this beautiful room that is
surrounded in stained glass imagery of varying

colors, largely in dark purples and reds, blues,
and in the center you see a large, circular pool

where a deep crimson liquid sits perfectly still,
familiar to both Percival and Vax'ildan.

LIAM: I walk over to Keyleth. We need to talk. And
I plant a big fucking kiss on her mouth, and then

I turn to the rest of the group and say, nobody
fucking touches me, do you understand?

TRAVIS: Where are you going?

LAURA: Understood.

LIAM: I walk in, and I inhale as deeply as I can
as I shove my face into the blood.

LAURA: I hold Trinket back so that he doesn't go
after him.

MATT: Okay.

MARISHA: I watch on the side and don't take my
eyes off of him.

MATT: Okay. Pike instinctually walks up to the
very edge but avoids touching any of the liquid.

As you watch Vax just (bloop noise) disappear into
this thick liquid, no bubbles rise, you see a bit

of movement from thrashing beneath the surface and
then stillness.

MARISHA: Is this what he goes through every time?

TALIESIN: This is normal.

TRAVIS: Is he a vampire?

TALIESIN: He is not a vampire.

SAM: I think he's dead. I think he died in there.

TALIESIN: I don't think that's how it works.

LAURA: But I do think he's dead.

SAM: He's undead, isn't he? He's a zombie.

TALIESIN: He's not a zombie.

MARISHA: His flesh is cold, but his heart still
beats.

MATT: Vax'ildan. As the panic and pain subsides,
much easier now than it was your previous

ventures, into this communion, the darkness
surrounds you, familiar, but you are intent, and

you are driven. The very force of your
conversation is pushed out from your personality

into this ether, this surrounding, infinite void,
and a familiar voice comes.

"You burn with intent, my feathered boy."

LIAM: We need to talk.

MATT: "Then talk we shall. Speak your mind." You
still see nothing around you, it's just the voice

from the darkness.

LIAM: We were too late to stop him. Vecna.

MATT: "I sensed it, yes."

LIAM: This dead man who wanted to be a god is now
a fucking god. We have been speaking to your

brothers and sisters, your found family, and
they are arming us with what we need to fight your

foe. You know who he is. He is upon us and I have
come to you for aid. And as I have learned, he is

somewhat akin to you. He was one of us and has
ascended, like you.

MATT: "He is no kin to me. He is a trier. He is a
copycat. He ascends for selfish reasons, whereas I

"was merely following my destiny. He will be
destroyed. You have the tools. You have the means.

"The weave is tangled before us. The threads grow
knotted, hard to follow. But yours still glows so

"bright into that terrible knot."

LIAM: This thing. This man is your enemy, yes?

MATT: "As he is the enemy of all things."

LIAM: Agreed. I have come here seeking power.

MATT: "You have my blessing already."

LIAM: What of these trammels? These fragments of
divinity. Have you that in you?

MATT: "I do not know much of these trammels but
that they were used. But I fear that is beyond my

"knowledge. The Knowing Mistress would be the one
to speak to."

LIAM: We have.

MATT: "Then what do you need of me?"

LIAM: We need to power trammels. The Dawnfather,
the Knowing Mistress have contributed to our

cause, to your cause, these seeds of power. I had
hoped you could offer the same.

MATT: At this point, you feel a finger trace
across your chin from behind. You feel an arm, the

weight resting on your shoulder, and it pulls and
turns you around, and as you spin, you come face

to face with the porcelain mask you are so
familiar with. As the hand still holds the edge of

your cheek and your shoulder, "Am I to believe
that this is not some ploy to diminish my power

"and leave me vulnerable to cast me from my seat?"

LIAM: I thought you knew me inside and out.

MATT: "I know you, but do you know them? Do you
think I've been welcome since I entered this

"pantheon? My existence is perpetually a threat to
the creators. If anything, part of this burden

"that we all face lies on my shoulders, as well.
Why would they not think to strike at two birds

"with one stone?" At which point, you watch the
feathers of her dress furl out a bit, like a bird

that's hit a chill.

LIAM: Well, it depends on you, then, and how much
you want this wretch taken down.

MATT: Make a persuasion check.

LIAM: 18.

MATT: There's a long, silent stare. "I put my
faith in you, my fate-touched. Do not forget that.

"And all I ask is you put all your faith in me."

LIAM: You have it.

MATT: "Then I shall watch your thread. Now wake
up." In that instant, everything goes black once

more, and you feel the pain, the heat in your
lungs, but then it subsides quickly, and you stay

there beneath the familiar, thick surface of the
blood. No need for air.

TRAVIS: You're just chilling like a villain under
the blood?!

SAM: (whispering) He can breathe blood!

MATT: The instinct to breathe is still there, but
you realize after a moment of panic that it's not

necessary.

LIAM: Do I have what I came for?

MATT: You can't see. Your body is clenched tight.
Your muscles are still tense.

LIAM: Okay, I'll move up.

MATT: You guys, after waiting for about 30
minutes, it feels like, of tense silence, you

watch as the surface of the pool (splashing)
splashes upwards as a crimson Vax comes to the

surface. Not gasping for breath. Just
stoic, as he comes to the edge of the pool, step

after step, dripping the blood with each footprint
on the ground. Your fist hurts a bit from the

tightness, but as you unfurl your fingers you look
down and see a small, onyx opal. It's a stone

about the size of a gem that big on your hand.

TRAVIS: That is a big bean.

LIAM: I need a bath.

TALIESIN: Do we want to try and make one more
jump?

TRAVIS: Just a minute. I have a question. How many
times have you done that?

LIAM: Six.

TRAVIS: My gods.

TALIESIN: Once.

SAM: This has been the craziest 48 hours of my
life.

(laughter)

SAM: I mean... wow, guys.

LIAM: Campaign in 48 hours.

SAM: Wow. I could've just been chilling...

TALIESIN: You've made some bad decisions, haven't
you?

LIAM: I just stand clutching a gem dripping blood,
looking at the love of my life.

MARISHA: I kiss him back through the blood.

(groaning)

MARISHA: Fuck you, you kiss your bear on the
mouth!

MATT: It looks like Keyleth had some barbecue and
wasn't paying attention.

TRAVIS: We don't know where that blood's from!

MARISHA: That's love, y'all.

LIAM: I was not expecting that.

MARISHA: You did it.

LIAM: (whispering) I'm sorry.

MARISHA: Okay, all right, let's clean you up.

TALIESIN: Do we want to try and run one more time
before we--

SAM and LAURA: Run where?

TALIESIN: Well, into the forge, I suppose. Find
the sword, head to the forge.

SAM: How do we get to the forge? There's no trees
there.

TRAVIS: I have a thought, right? Do we give a shit
about Kord at all, or no?

SAM: It would be great to have a fourth bean, but
we're on a ticking time clock.

LIAM: Yeah, I like the idea of the Kord bean, but
I really want to go to bed.

TALIESIN: Let's set up camp, and if you feel like
you want to make one last--

TRAVIS: I'll ask. He might just say no.

MARISHA: We don't even know where to find him,
though. We're running out of time.

TRAVIS: Yep. It's right here. It's like popping
into Blockbuster when you go to the grocery store.

Might as well see what's up.

SAM: Blockbuster?

LAURA: Redbox, maybe.

TRAVIS: No, Blockbuster. Where are you from?

SAM: Errol's Video.

TALIESIN: 20/20. Do we want to set up shop here or
do we want to set up shop in the temple of Kord?

LAURA: I think here. I feel like we're safe here.

TRAVIS: I mean, we got free reign. We got backstage
passes. Everybody's like, "right through here!"

TALIESIN: I think honestly here they'll have
difficulty identifying which of our blood is

going to be splattered on the ground.

LIAM: And I'm good with management, I think we
can... yeah.

TALIESIN: Let's sleep here.

TRAVIS: Yeah, you seem to be super tight with--

LAURA: Do you want to head over to Kord's temple
as well? I have a feeling if we find him, we'll

have to go to another plane.

TRAVIS: Yeah, that was my (stammers) assess, as
well.

LAURA: Yeah.

MARISHA: If you want to go do a little bit of
footwork and see what it might take to get there,

I can rest and try and get us there. Remember, you
have to find a tuning fork, though, that is

attuned to the specific plane.

TALIESIN: You're speaking words that he doesn't--

MARISHA: You need a magical vibrating fork that is
connected to the vibrating plane of Kord.

TALIESIN: He doesn't know what that word means.

TRAVIS: I was just going to go speak to
Earthbreaker Groon. I don't know what's so hard

about that. He gave me these gloves last time.

MARISHA: Right. I'm just letting you know the
prerequisites so you can ask the right questions.

Just go.

LAURA: I'll go. I'll go with him.

TRAVIS: Am I still blue?

SAM: You're still blue, and you still look like
Blue Man Group, so do you want me to go with you

so that I can undo that when we get there?

TRAVIS: Yeah, you tweedles want to come?

LAURA: Yeah.

SAM: Or do you want to talk to him blue?

TRAVIS: No, I want to be blue. Yeah. I want to
stay blue.

SAM: But when you talk to Groon do you want to be
blue?

TRAVIS: Yeah you can dissipate, right?

SAM: So I'll come with you.

TRAVIS: Yeah. That cool?

LAURA: Yeah.

TRAVIS: You guys rest. I'm going to go find us a
bean of strength and might and sex appeal. Can I

go to the temple of Kord?

MATT: Yeah. You guys make your way.

SAM: Am I making a mansion for the rest of you?

LAURA: That would be smart. I feel like the
mansion is the smartest thing because it's not--

TRAVIS: They don't have Raven Queen cots or
something?

LAURA: We don't know; Vecna could still see in
here.

MARISHA: Oh, that's true. You're right.

SAM: All right. Mansion. Enjoy yourselves.

MATT: You create the shimmering doorway, and you
guys come into the mansion without issue.

MARISHA and LIAM: To the spa!

SAM: I'll don the hat so I turn into the Meat Man
so that no one can recognize me.

MATT: Okay. The three of you make your way to the
Braving Grounds.

LAURA: As we're walking, I want to whisper to
Scanlan. I'm going to whisper to the Meat Man's

crotch because that's about even, right?

SAM: I think he's a little bigger.

LAURA: Then I'll whisper to his waistline. The
sword that Ioun was talking about, right, the

Sword of Kas?

SAM: (Meat Man voice) The Sword of Kas, yes.

LAURA: Do you think it could possibly the sword
that Grog had?

SAM: The thought did occur to me, yes, but there
are big differences.

LAURA: Do you know for sure?

SAM: Well, Ioun did not talk about a talking
sword, for one.

LAURA: Well, no, but she didn't say it wasn't a
talking sword. She said it was a vengeful sword.

SAM: Do you think we should go get it to make
sure? We should have asked for some sort of

identifying feature.

LAURA: We really should have. Maybe we could ask
the sword.

SAM: She said, "Do you have any more questions?"

LAURA: And we didn't. But maybe if we see that
sword, we can be like, "Hey, do you know who Kas is?"

and if he does, then we're like, "Oh fuck!"

SAM: You want to go visit Craven Edge?

LAURA: I'm saying this quietly. I don't want
Grog to realize we're doing this. He has a thing

for Craven Edge.

SAM: I held the sword once.

LAURA: You did?

SAM: I have a thing for Craven Edge, as well.

LAURA: Oh fuck. Oh shit.

MATT: Make an intelligence roll, actually. Roll a
d20, add your intelligence modifier plus one

because you have a permanent plus two to your
intelligence.

SAM: Intelligence check? 11.

LIAM: Your intelligence is higher now, after Ioun.
Don't forget your Ioun papers!

SAM: Eight plus two, plus one is 11.

LIAM: Oh god!

MATT: Okay, continue.

LAURA: Continue. You didn't pass the test.

SAM: I mean, do I get to add my Jack of All
Trades?

MATT: Yeah. Plus three.

SAM: 14!

LAURA: Anything?

MATT: Nothing. Continue.

SAM: It was a very powerful sword, but perhaps
it's worth a check. How do we get there? We'll

have to talk to Keyleth about it.

MARISHA: I don't think the timelines match. But I
could be wrong. I'm not there.

LAURA: Delilah Briarwood, Lord Briarwood had the
sword, they were seeking Vecna.

LIAM: That's where they got that shit.

LAURA: It could work out.

MARISHA: But they were making out like Vecna had
this sword while we had Craven Edge, right?

LAURA: Vecna doesn't have the sword right now--

MATT: No one's seen the Sword of Kas since Vecna
was destroyed along with Kas.

LAURA: Exactly! Craven Edge could be the Sword of
Kas.

LIAM: It got lost and was refound.

LAURA: By the Briarwoods. They were going to
awaken him, but then he died.

SAM: Or it's just a sword.

LAURA: Or it's just a sword that just likes
blood.

LIAM: We've got to do something.

TRAVIS: Can we go?!

LAURA: Sorry, Grog. Yes, of course. We're walking.
We're doing this while we walk. We're not wasting

time with this conversation. We're traveling with
this conversation.

TRAVIS: I didn't realize.

SAM: We'll ask Keyleth when we get back.

LAURA: Okay. We sent it to the plane of the Dread
Emperor.

SAM: She knows how to get there.

MATT: You guys make your way through the Proving
Grounds. Where are you heading to specifically?

TRAVIS: To the temple of Kord. Big man outside.
The Trial Forge with the big doors.

MATT: You make your way to the Trial Forge. The
doors are currently closed, it is mid-evening at

this point. It's probably, at this point, with the
communion and you guys making your way across the

city? Yeah, it's close to midnight.

TRAVIS: Nice. (loud knocking)

MATT: Your knocks are very loud and easily heard.
About 20 seconds later (door opening) begin to

open. You hear the cinching of chains as the doors
are pulled open ever so slightly. One of the monks

of Kord arrives at the front, sees you, recognizes
you with a bit of glance.

SAM: He's blue.

MATT: Oh, that's right. Does not recognize you.

TRAVIS: I apologize for the late flower. Don't be
confused. It's me, Grog Strongjaw, wielder of the

Titanstone Knuckles. (whispers) I'm
in-cog-Cheeto.

SAM: I will drop the form of Grog.

MATT: Yeah. "Very well. Can I help you?"

TRAVIS: Yeah, I seek an audience with Earthbreaker
Groon. Very important. It pertains to the

emergence of Vecna.

MATT: "All right. This may coordinate with his
current effort. Very well. Please enter."

SAM: Can we come in?

MATT: You guys make your way in.

SAM: I am a legitimate businessman.

MATT: "I am very curious as to why you are here,
then."

SAM: For business dealings.

MATT: "You walk with Vox Machina."

SAM: I shouldn't have said anything.

(laughter)

MATT: You walk through the halls, your footfalls
echoing across the stone floor. The large archways

and the pillars. It is very quiet. As you approach
the edge of the central sandpit, in the center you

see Groon, currently sitting in meditation with
something drawn in the sand with a finger. Some

sort of a sketch.

TRAVIS: May I approach?

MATT: The head, facing away from you, picks up a
bit. "You may."

TRAVIS: (jumping and landing) Three-point stance.

MATT: Slowly stands up and brushes sand from the
hands. Not turning, but just looking over the

shoulder ever so slightly at you. 
"What brings you to the temple at this hour?"

TRAVIS: We have urgent business-- what are you
drawing there?

MATT: "Finish your statement."

TRAVIS: Right, sorry. We come with grim tidings.
Vecna is at large, and we mean to take him down.

MATT: "I know only what I've been told. We are
gathering the monks for defense of the city.

"Awaiting orders. I'm trying to meditate on where
this danger is."

TRAVIS: We have a theory. We think he might be
originating in Wildemount? No.

LAURA: We don't know where he is exactly--
(stammering) We've been speaking to the gods.

TRAVIS: You might want to talk through me. I'm his most
prized pupil.

LAURA: I'm going to stand next to Grog while I say
this.

TRAVIS: In the sandpit?

LAURA: Yeah! I'm going to fly down to the sandpit
and land next to Grog.

TRAVIS: Lady Vex'ahlia. Great fighter, very
brave.

LAURA: Hi.

MATT: Still hasn't turned around, but seems to be
listening.

LAURA: Champion of Pelor, the Dawnfather. We've
been speaking to the gods. We're taking on Vecna.

Hopefully not alone, but we need to speak with
Kord. I know that sounds odd, but Grog was

hoping--

LAURA and TRAVIS: I was hoping that you would know
how to contact him directly, perhaps maybe have

something that was tuned to his plane of
existence, potentially.

MATT: "You have drawn Kord's attention once,
directly. He is aware of you. Should you wish to

"speak, that I can teach. It is a long process.
Piety, meditation, and learning of the history of

"the Storm Lord himself. But it can be done."

LAURA: How long of a process is this, that we're
talking?

MATT: "You cannot rush faith."

LAURA: I'm not trying to rush faith. I'm just
saying that Vecna has ascended to godhood. We have

a limited amount of time to take him down. We need
to speak with Kord.

MATT: "I cannot help you."

LAURA: You can't speak to him directly?

MATT: "I can meditate and reach out, perhaps."

LAURA: Maybe draw his attention to us? The need is
dire.

MATT: "It doesn't work the way you ask. Kord isn't
a giving god."

LAURA: He's not?

MATT: Make a religion check.

LAURA: Okay, yeah, this is going to go so well.
Hold up. 20?

MATT: Okay. You know about Kord. Kord, from what
you understand, is the god of competition and

storms and chaotic nature and good-neutral
territory, but emphasizes contest and--

TRAVIS: Self-reliance.

MATT: Yeah, he's not the kind of god you can
beseech with a word.

LAURA: Maybe you can tell him there's a big fight
coming. Call out to him! Get his attention.

TRAVIS: See if he wants box seats or something?

LAURA: Yeah! Say he can help take down the big bad
guy.

TRAVIS: Free food and drinks?

LAURA: Definitely! Prime tickets to a UFC fight.

TRAVIS: Do you happen to know, from all your years
of meditation, what plane or where Kord might

reside?

MATT: "Ysgard."

TRAVIS: Ysgard?

LAURA: East guard?

MATT: "Ysgard."

TRAVIS: East guard.

(laughter)

LAURA: He is god. East guard.

MATT: Y-S-G-A-R-D.

(laughter)

TRAVIS: (clears throat) Ysgard. Hmm. Is that on
another plane?

LAURA: Is that near the Fields of Elysium, or a
totally different place?

MATT: "I do not know."

TRAVIS: Listen, he is very busy right now with his
meditation garden.

LAURA: Right, yeah. So you have nothing else that
you can do? I know that you're going to fight his

troops, but the fact of the matter is Vecna is a
god. If we can't find some way to speak to Kord,

we may not be able to save the world again.

TRAVIS: Action now would prevent the spread of his
power.

MATT: "If what you say is true, I'm certain Kord
already knows. We will do what we can, but what

"you ask is not within our ability to grant."

TRAVIS: Fair enough. You don't happen to have a
bean on you, do you? Hard no?

LAURA: Powerful beans. Super.

MATT: For the first time, you see Kord glance over
his shoulder at you--

LAURA: (laughs) He hasn't looked at us this whole
fucking time?

MATT: No, he's been back to you and looking over
the shoulder. He finally turns and gives a nudge

to one of the monks up top, who darts off.
(running noises) A few awkward quiet minutes pass.

(running noises) Jumps down into the sand pit,
runs up, and hands you a small satchel.

TRAVIS: I look inside.

MATT: It is filled with beans.

(laughter)

LAURA: You have everything you've ever wanted,
Grog. Congratulations.

TRAVIS: Everybody else got one. I've got a
satchel. Just fucking name the group after me. We

are out. Thank you!

LAURA: Can I see what he was drawing in the sand
while we were over there?

MATT: Make a perception check.

LAURA: 18.

TRAVIS: I'll do it, too, because I was curious.

MATT: Go for it.

TRAVIS: Don't worry about it.

(laughter)

MATT: You glance over and you see one sketch that
appears to be a general overview of the city, of

all the different quarters that make up the
mountain. And he's essentially trying to work out

defense positions within the city and preparing
for some sort of siege.

TRAVIS: I thank you for seeing us at this late
hour, and I wish you luck in the defense of this

temple and this city.

MATT: "I wish I could be of more help."

TRAVIS: You have been.

LAURA: Groon, if Vecna attacks here, he'll bring
undead.

MATT: "That's all right. We'll bring the storm."

TRAVIS: Oh fuck! That was a noble answer! I'm
sorry. I'm cool. We're out.

SAM: If you ever need any antique furniture or
decor, ask for the Meat Man. He get you good deal.

(clicks tongue)

MATT: (grunts) He turns back to facing away.

LAURA: He's really creepy, isn't he?

TRAVIS: Make sure as we leave, we back away. Back
away.

LAURA: Back away.

TALIESIN: What was Kord painting?

MATT: He was drawing in the sand.

TALIESIN: Please tell me it was a horse playing
saxophone. That's all I want.

(laughter)

MATT: He sits back down in the sand pit and goes
back to his concentration, leaves you to your

business.

TRAVIS: That was a total win. I got a bag full of
beans.

LAURA: Good job, Grog.

TRAVIS: Yep. And we know that Kord is on
"he's-a-god."

LAURA: Yeah. He's in Ysgard.

TRAVIS: You're saying it weird.

LAURA: "He's-god."

TRAVIS: "He's-god." So should I change back?

SAM: I can't do it again.

TRAVIS: What do you mean? You can't?

SAM: I guess I could do it one more time, sure.

TRAVIS: We're going back to sleep, right? It's
either that or I put a fancy robe over my whole

face.

SAM: This time, I make us all blue.

LAURA: Lovely. Can I have light blue hair?

SAM: Dark blue skin, light blue hair? Sure. I'll
be opposite.

LIAM: Not painted bald caps? Not blue-painted bald
caps?

LAURA: No, I want beautiful hair. I've always
wanted blue hair.

LIAM: That's not the Blue Man Group I know.

TRAVIS: We make our way back to the temples. Is
the bustle the same outside of the temple?

MATT: Well, as you step out of the temple and
Scanlan blues you all, you make your way across--

SAM: Episode title: The Blue Job.

(laughter)

TRAVIS: The multiple blue jobs.

MATT: Yeah. Okay. As you exit the temple, it's
late night, and the bustle has calmed down a

little bit, as it is the evening, but you do see
there are-- normally what are small patrol lights at

the edges of the walls, you can see large fires
are burning at the edges to extend eyesight.

It's interesting. You see wyverns in the sky. You
hear the familiar cries of wyverns, and at first,

it catches you off-guard. But Vex'ahlia, glancing
up, you can see they all have some sort of barding

on them. Silver and blue barding.

LAURA: Oh shit! It's the temple of Bahamut? Yes!

MATT: Platinum dragons. They have wyvern riders
here that act as air patrol during times of

intense possible warfare.

TRAVIS: Air force got scrambled. (aircraft
noises) Amazing!

TALIESIN: Formation. Smoke.

LAURA: I really hope Vasselheim stands.

MATT: You guys make your way back to Raven's
Crest, to the entranceway to Scanlan's Magnificent

Mansion and to the rest of your party, freshly
washed.

TRAVIS: So a question: what's on the menu?

TALIESIN: Beans, apparently.

TRAVIS: Now, look. How do you even know that?

TALIESIN: I just assumed because I know you.

TRAVIS: Why would you only serve beans? There's no
meat or fish?

SAM: It's vegan here. We serve a lot of beans.

TRAVIS: Because of your daughter?

SAM: Yes.

TRAVIS: Well, she's not here. Can we make an
exception?

SAM: She's always here in my heart.

TALIESIN: Hopefully not in the kitchen, though, so
we're going to cook anything we like.

TRAVIS: I got what we needed. I got myself a
bean.

MARISHA: You got a shard?

TRAVIS: I got several shards. I got a bag full of
shards. Hold on, the power might bowl you all

over.

TALIESIN: That actually might, especially if not
eaten with rice.

TRAVIS: What are you doing? (gasping)

LIAM: It's all right; I can eat anything.

TRAVIS: How do you feel?

MATT: Tastes like ash.

LIAM: Yeah, so does everything.

MARISHA: (gasps) We used to eat these in the Fire
Ashari all the time. These are a rare delicacy!

Good find, Grog. (gasps) I could grow some more.
Oh my god. We can have coal bean soup all the time

at home, you guys. These are coal beans. They're
great.

TRAVIS: These are not the same thing?

LAURA: There could be an actual seed of power
within there.

TRAVIS: Is there a table nearby?

MATT: Yeah, you're not too far from the--

TRAVIS: I dump all the beans out on the table. Are
there any beans that look different from the

rest?

MATT: Make an investigation check.

LAURA: I'll look over his shoulder and help look.
I'm going to help look.

TRAVIS: (laughing) 16. Does that count?

LAURA: That's not bad.

MATT: You actually find four beans that look a bit
darker, but squishier. They look to maybe be a

little on the the rotten side.

TRAVIS: These are the beans. I mean, I should've
thought-- Kord is a fist, and you put one of each

four on the knuckles. I squish each one of the
beans.

MATT: And they squish easy. (squishing noise)

TRAVIS: I'm not a praying man. Bless my gauntlet.
Anything happen?

MARISHA: There's a little juice running down your
gauntlet.

TRAVIS: Are they glowing?

LAURA: Well...

MARISHA: Fermented? Fermented.

MATT: A little funky.

TRAVIS: You know what? I bet if I pray hard
enough, they will disappear. Look above you!

LAURA and SAM: (noises of surprise)

MATT: Make a sleight-of-hand check.

TRAVIS: Hey! That's not terrible. (laughing) I got
plus two! 18!

(laughter)

MATT: Strangely, Scanlan and Pike are impressed.

SAM: I just rolled a two. Whoa. That was
impressive.

TRAVIS: Yeah. Well, the line between me and Kord.
Super tight.

MARISHA: Keyleth goes behind Grog and starts
cleaning up the beans that he just threw.

TRAVIS: Pike! Pretty good, right?

MATT: "Honestly? Kind of blown away."

TRAVIS: I know. Maybe I should get a tattoo for
Kord, like the symbols you have for Sarenrae.

MATT: "What're you thinking for the tattoo?"

TRAVIS: I don't know. A fist?

TALIESIN: Or a bean.

TRAVIS: Hey, don't put ideas in my head. A bean?

MATT: "Actually, the symbol of the Storm Lord's
cool. I'll get it up for you." And she pulls out a

piece of paper and sketches it up for you. It's
this cool disc, this dark metal disc with blue

bolts of lightning that stick out of the center.

TRAVIS: The Storm Lord symbol is the jam. That is
a cartoon bean.

LAURA: It's a bean with a dick.

TRAVIS: The dick is smaller than the balls. It's
like a parrot's beak. Listen. We're going to stick

with the Storm Lord sigil.

LIAM: We are going to save the world.

TRAVIS: Well, listen, I found out where Kord is.
He's in a place called--

LAURA and SAM: Ysgard.

MARISHA: Sure.

TRAVIS: Are you familiar?

MARISHA: No.

TRAVIS: Oh. Why'd you say sure?

MARISHA: I was just seeming intelligent.

TRAVIS: I do that all the time. Anybody have any
idea where that is?

SAM: No. We can ask.

TRAVIS: Okay. Who can we ask?

TALIESIN: Asking the dungeon master.

MATT: (chuckles) Make a religion check, only if
you're trained in it.

LIAM: I'm making a religion check. Jeepers.

MATT: I just rolled for Pike.

TRAVIS: 17, but I'm not trained in it.

LIAM: Just a 12.

TALIESIN: I'm not trained in religion.

MATT: (sighs) Not a whole lot of information
gleaned on this.

TRAVIS: (sighs) Okay. How did Pike roll?

MATT: Pike didn't roll that great.

TRAVIS: Fuck!

LAURA: Percy? With your migraine, do you know what
else we need to make these trammels?

TALIESIN: I've been thinking a lot. I've been
trying to skirt around this information for a

bunch of reasons, so I've been making a mental
shopping list.

MATT: Yeah. And from what you recall, it seems
that one, the tools that were used to build them

are generally with the anvil forge. It's more the
essence of the god that drives the trammel. The

material required is pure platinum.

LAURA: (gasps) Platinum mines!

TRAVIS: Yeah, that we buried under a mountain.

LAURA: So? We know where they are.

MARISHA: Do we for sure need platinum?

MATT: The trammels are about that long. They're
giant stakes of platinum.

LAURA: We need more platinum.

TALIESIN: I'm attempting to do the math of how
much platinum...

MATT: I mean, if you were to melt down platinum
pieces? Each trammel would probably be close to

I'd say-- with the density and the thickness of
it-- 500 platinum.

MARISHA: Each trammel is 500 platinum?

MATT: Yeah. For the thickness of it, for the pure
platinum structure.

MARISHA: How much do we have?

LAURA: Well, I didn't write exactly how much
platinum we have. I transposed the platinum into

gold in my notes.

MATT: Okay.

TALIESIN: We can buy platinum. Go to a bank and
exchange it.

MATT: You can exchange gold for platinum.

MARISHA: Wait, Grog. You had it in your original
Bag of Holding? How much was written down on our

original Bag of Holding list?

TRAVIS: I don't know. There were a bunch of
digits.

MARISHA: Do you not still have it written down?

TALIESIN: If he actually has the phrase "a bunch
of digits," that would make me so happy right

now.

TRAVIS: You know, we could always take Kima's
greatsword. It's made out of solid platinum.

MATT: She has that sword right now.

TRAVIS: Yeah, she does. I'm just saying.

SAM: Who was the other band of travelers who
fought and lost?

TRAVIS: 1,600 platinum.

MARISHA: We had 1,600 platinum, originally.

TRAVIS: 1,619.

TALIESIN: There's part of me that doesn't want to
know.

MARISHA: We're going to find out.

LAURA: We could go to the bank here in Vasselheim
and switch out money for platinum. We have enough

gold to do. It's 500 platinum each, you said?

MARISHA: Is there a place where we could buy
bars?

LAURA: 5,000 gold would be 500 platinum? Okay.

MATT: You have to melt it down to get rid of the
impurities to get the metal down to its purest

form. There's a process to it that you are
actually familiar with.

TRAVIS: I'm familiar with it, all of a sudden. So
because we have these shards, right, these magical

beans, if we lose, do we effectively kill all the
gods whose shards we have?

TALIESIN: We depower them, so they'll be weak when
they go against Vecna.

TRAVIS: Yeah, that's a lot of responsibility I was
not aware of.

LAURA: Well, we need to not lose. They're still
diminished if we do defeat Vecna. That part of

them is forever chaining him.

MARISHA: If we fail, he could be coming after
them. They have no line of defense.

TRAVIS: Worst scenario possible. Cool. Good to
know.

MATT: Good news is, you do know that the Divine
Gate works both ways. He could not travel into

their realms. They could not travel into that.
However, it prevents them from intervening

directly on his dominion over the Prime Material
Plane.

LIAM: And as far as we know, this other group did
not have the help of gods.

LAURA: Right. As far as we know.

LIAM: As far as we know, unless they went to all
of the other gods we have not met.

TALIESIN: It's not like we can't look in on anyone
that we need to really quickly. I'm feeling the

urge.

LAURA: Do you know who it could be?

LIAM: We might want to check and see if Allura,
Gilmore, Kima, all our buddies are okay. Kash,

Zahra.

TALIESIN: My question is, does it matter, at the
moment?

LAURA: Of course it matters, dear.

TALIESIN: Does it? Does it just make us panic?

LAURA: At least we'd know if he raised them up
like he said he did, if we'll be fighting undead

Gilmore and undead Allura.

TALIESIN: All right, point made. Point very well
made. Let's start with--

MARISHA: I have a few scrys that I want to do,
anyway.

LAURA: Can we scry through this dimension?

MARISHA: Nope. I've got to pop out.

TRAVIS: Shouldn't you rest first?

TALIESIN: No, finish this first.

LIAM: What do you need?

MARISHA: I'm just wondering if I do any type of
large magic, if it'll alert him. Hey, what

happened to that skull that we got in Brimscythe's
basement?

TALIESIN: With the gem.

MARISHA: The gem in the eye.

LAURA: Funny you should ask.

MARISHA: Remember, we thought it might be
connected?

TALIESIN: It had a gem in one eye, if I recall.

TRAVIS: Yeah, a green emerald gem in one socket,
you dicks.

SAM: Where is it?

LAURA: Allura has it.

MARISHA: We gave it to Allura.

TRAVIS: What?

LAURA: Allura has it.

TRAVIS: No, it's in Percy's workshop.

LAURA: Sure, and Allura came down and saw it-- no,
I gave it to Allura.

MARISHA: I wonder if it's spying on everything?

LAURA: I'm sorry, Grog. I gave you your deck of
cards back! The skull was very dangerous, and at

the time it seemed like the right thing to do. I'm
sorry. I'm sorry! Look, we just went and got a

bunch of beans for you.

TRAVIS: That's true.

LIAM: And also, buddy, we might be dead in a week,
you don't want to hold on to that kind of shit.

TALIESIN: We may be going to get the skull back.

MARISHA: Well, yeah, we could get the skull back
because I was just going through my notes, my old

diary, of everything that we've been through--

TALIESIN: It literally has a leaf on it, oh my god.

MARISHA: I have four diaries of everything we've
been through.

TALIESIN: I've read them.

SAM: Ugh. What kind of dumb character keeps a
diary?

MARISHA: It said evil skull in Brimscythe's--
1/21. We found an evil skull in Brimscythe's

house. It may be connected to Craven Edge. And I
put stars next to it.

TALIESIN: Did you put stars next to it because it
was important or did you just put stars next to it?

MARISHA: I don't know, that's just what I wrote
down a year and a half ago.

TRAVIS: I mean, do you need me to drop my
scholastic knowledge on this shit? Because I will.

It talked to me and it was like, "If you free me,
I'll give you a wish."

MARISHA: The skull?

TRAVIS: Yeah. Why do you think I was trying to
break that shit?

LAURA: I don't believe if you'd freed it you
would've gotten a wish, I think you would've

fought something.

TRAVIS: Do you know for sure?

LAURA: No.

TRAVIS: Then what are we talking about?

TALIESIN: Let's find out what's going on with the
skull.

LIAM: Yeah, we are in final days, here.

TALIESIN: Yeah, let's give ourselves--

SAM: What are we doing?

TALIESIN: We're going to try and take 48 hours to
get as much done as humanly possible.

LAURA: We need to scry on the fucking friends, we
need to check in on that skull, maybe.

And you need to maybe open up the plane to the
Dread Emperor and see about the Craven Edge.

MARISHA: What now?

LIAM: The gods must be crazy.

TALIESIN: Part two?

SAM: That's low priority.

LAURA: Is it?

SAM: I don't think that's the thing.

LAURA: What if that weapon is super good against
Vecna?

SAM: Just because it's a sword?

MARISHA: Okay, wait, did she say we needed the
sword? Also, I think the knight guy that you

fought that was super awful was the bloody--

LIAM: Kas.

LAURA: No, Kas is destroyed. He turned to ash. He
fought Vecna and was turned to ash.

SAM: Did the knight have a sword?

TRAVIS: He did. A giant blade that emitted
shadow.

SAM: Maybe that was the sword.

MARISHA: But wasn't he brought back? Kas the
Bloody-Handed, right? Oh wait, he fought--

LAURA: He fought against Vecna! They destroyed
each other. It's the reason Vecna was destroyed to

begin with.

MARISHA: But maybe he brought Kas back and that
was the Death Knight we fought.

SAM: The world is full of mysteries.

TALIESIN: One of which is whether or not our
friends are alive.

MARISHA: All right, I'm going to step outside and
scry on Allura first!

LIAM: And I'm going to-- nothing, I'm just going
to stand and walk out front.

MATT: So. You're scrying first.

MARISHA: Allura.

MATT: Okay. So you step out into the center of the
structure--

LAURA: (whispering) Please please please please
please...

MARISHA: Wait! Is anybody around? Nothing's weird
and out of the ordinary?

MATT: You're in the Raven's Crest.

MARISHA: Okay. Just want to make sure. People just
punk'd us at Sprigg's cabin!

SAM: We're inside a church.

MARISHA: Doesn't mean assassins can't get inside a
church.

LAURA: Just go, just scry!

MARISHA: Okay, I'm going!

MATT: Okay. So. (laughs) As you sit and focus,
concentrate, you draw out the various arcane

glyphs on the ground and focus on Allura. Your
vision expands into the sky, (whoosh) rushing

through the night air and the spattering of clouds
that have amassed over Vasselheim. It fires

through the stratosphere, dives down into the
center of Emon, into a bedroom. She is currently

at a desk and is feverishly writing on parchment.
Her hair is tousled a bit and she has a thick robe

over her shoulders, and you can see she finishes
writing something, rolls it up, seals it, sets it

into a pile, thinks a second, casts a spell
absentmindedly, it flickers off and vanishes. She

goes back to writing. The door opens and you watch
as Kima comes in, brings a little tray with some

hot tea and sets it down beside her, rubs her
shoulder a bit, and Allura looks back at her and

nods. You guys are the worst.

(laughter)

MATT: Allura puts her face in her hands for a
second rubs her temples, She looks tired. Kima

leaves the room, and Allura is left there to 
think for a second, looks out the window of her

tower, then goes back to her writing.

MARISHA: Okay.

SAM: Was she covered with blood?

MARISHA: No, she's fine. She's safe in Emon. So is
Kima. They're both safe.

SAM: Skull was next on the list?

LAURA: Well, Allura has the skull. Do we have any
way to talk to her?

SAM: No.

MARISHA: Okay. Should I do Gilmore next? Is that
necessary?

LAURA: Can you scry on the object? No...

MARISHA: I can scry on an object, right?

MATT: An object or a person.

MARISHA: Should I do the skull?

LIAM: Is it a safe assumption that skull is with
her? She's pretty fucking badass.

MARISHA: I mean it might just be a lich phylactery
or something.

SAM: Who else would have gone into battle against
Vecna?

LIAM: Well, if it is a lich phylactery, that
would be something we would smash to bits.

SAM: Could've been Kash.

TALIESIN: Could've been Tary.

SAM: Who? Oh that fancy fellow.

LAURA: Oh my god, can you scry on Tary? What if he
came searching for us?

MARISHA: But Tary was still in--

TALIESIN: Just pick a city. Let's just keep
looking at people in various cities.

MARISHA: Tary... we would feel it.

LIAM: Keyleth just spit out an idea. If that
skull, which looked like his fucking head. We've

dealt with a lich before. If it has even a chance
of being a vessel for his life force, even a

chance, wouldn't we want to not use it, but
destroy it?

MATT: I will impart the information that you did
discover that the skull was the skull of a

githyanki.

LIAM: Oh, that was from 300 hours ago! I
misspoke.

MATT: They're a type of people, a race of people
that traverse the Astral Sea.

LIAM: But it has one eye.

MATT: Oh, it has two eyes.

LIAM: Emerald in one eye.

MATT: Yeah, well, the skull shape was alien and
was elongated, almost elven.

LIAM: That was hundreds of hours ago.

MATT: I wanted to save you circularly arguing
about something without some information.

SAM: Oh, we'll still circularly argue about
something.

MATT: Oh, I'm sure you will!

LIAM: Yeah, this clusterfuck's not over.

SAM: It's been a half-hour of fuckery right here.

TALIESIN: A little bit of hemming, a little bit of
hawing.

TRAVIS: Wait a minute. Aren't we forgetting about
one undead thing? Didn't we want to go back and

talk to Delilah's body?

TALIESIN: Oh yeah, we're going to have that
conversation.

LIAM: Is she in your bag?

TALIESIN: That's right.

MARISHA: She's in the Bag of Colding.

LAURA: She might be in the Colding. Let's get into
the mansion and talk to her.

MATT: She's in the Bag of Holding.

LAURA: Let's go in the mansion first.

TRAVIS: Are we not in the mansion right now?

SAM: We stepped out for a second.

TRAVIS: I never left.

LAURA: The door's open. We're talking through the
door.

MARISHA: Yeah, real quick, I still also want to
scry on the Shorecomb.

TALIESIN: We're going to set her up so that she's
nice and--

MARISHA: You guys get her set up.

TALIESIN: In a chair and we're going to bind her.

MATT: (laughing) You guys pull the corpse of
Delilah Briarwood out of the bag. It hasn't been

that long. The body's stiff. A lot of the head is
missing. Rigor mortis has definitely caused the

body to tighten up a bit.

TRAVIS: Undead gas.

MATT: I mean, limp. The muscles went lax. Okay, so
as you guys were propping this up, you complete

your scrying on Shorecomb, and what you do is you
get a vision of the central area of the city,

right near the cliffside. There's these sheer
cliffs that drop off for maybe a couple hundred feet

and lead down to the gravelly, rocky beach; dark
rocks, pebbles, they go out about 30 feet until

they hit the water, and that's where they have
these wooden steps that wind down the side of the

cliff that lead to the docks, and they have
winches and cranes that lift heavy objects to and

from the docks to get actually into the city. You
do see a lot of the trees are very thin, but

within the actual city proper, you see a handful
of larger trees that at this time, because it's

pushing into the end of winter, beginning of
spring, a lot of them are leafless, but possible

to use your Transport via Plants with. All right,
you've propped up your corpse, you've bound it.

Pike is, (uncomfortable noise) "Okay..."

TRAVIS: We're right behind you; it's fine.

LIAM: It's a good cause, Pickle.

MATT: "Do we have our questions? Do we know what
we're going to ask?"

TRAVIS: How many do we get, five?

LIAM: Five questions.

SAM: Three? Five?

LIAM and TALIESIN: Five.

MATT: I'm going to double check.

LIAM: 17.

TALIESIN: Was Craven Edge the sword?

LAURA: Oh, that's a good one.

MARISHA: The sword of Kas.

LAURA: Solid question.

LIAM: We could ask about Vecna and her buddy that
banished Grog.

LAURA: The Shadow Knight.

TRAVIS: I'm writing them down in my mind.

TALIESIN: What he has done to prepare for the
inevitable attempts to re-bind him.

MARISHA: Does he have any weaknesses? Is that too
broad?

LAURA: Does she have to answer? Do they have to
answer?

MATT: No.

MARISHA: But she might not care, right?

TALIESIN: I don't know, we've got a few things we
can threaten her with. We can attempt to have her

consecrated and buried in the Raven Queen's temple
so that nothing will ever bring her back again.

TRAVIS: One more question.

TALIESIN: Also, in theory, I think it's possible
that I could just send her to hell.

TRAVIS: Do we want to ask where he is? Where he
was going? What his plan is after ascending?

LIAM: Percy, buddy. You are a married man.

TRAVIS: Where he is or where he's planning to
attack first or what his display of power is going

to be?

MARISHA: Oh sure, because he has to do a display
to get followers.

TRAVIS: So we have sword of Kas, bloody knight,
what he's trying to do to prevent his binding,

weakness/fears, and display of power.

MARISHA: Unless the knight was Sylas. I don't
know, I guess we'll find out.

TRAVIS: You good with those five?

TALIESIN: Yeah. I feel pretty good. I like this
plan.

MATT: "Okay." And she gets her holy symbol, takes
out her component pouch and begins setting up the

ritual for the Speak with Dead spell. It takes her
but a moment to invoke it, and her eyes glow, the

symbol suddenly shines this column of light onto
the corpse of Delilah Briarwood, there motionless

against the chair that you've bound the body. The
spell, now released, the glyphs on the ground

faintly glowing with this energy. Pike reaches out
and concentrates.

"There's no spirit."

LAURA: Oh shit. She's already been brought back.

MATT: "There's no soul to grasp. Either the soul
is beyond reach or she's not dead."

MARISHA: How many times are we going to have to
fight this bitch?

SAM: How? We have her body.

LAURA: She's a necromancer.

SAM: I don't know what that means. I'm a holy man.
I'm a priest of Ioun. I don't know about the

undead.

TRAVIS: Does he got holes?

SAM: My brother, please.

TRAVIS: My son.

TALIESIN: Even as a source of information, a
source of vengeance, she is a constant

disappointment.

MARISHA: Can I scry on her?

MATT: Do you have another spell slot to do that?

MARISHA: I have three 5th-level spells plus my
Scrying Eye that I haven't used yet.

MATT: So if you'd like to, yeah.

MARISHA: Yep.

MATT: All right.

LAURA: And be sneaky about it, okay?

TALIESIN: Wait, do we have to do it outside?

MARISHA: Yeah, this is another plane of existence.
We have to be on the same plane.

MATT: What's your spell DC?

MARISHA: 21.

MATT: You concentrate your vision and focus on the
whereabouts, perhaps, of where Delilah Briarwood

might be if she was on this plane. Your vision
pulls out of your body, rockets once again through

the stratosphere, the darkness. It's hard to place
direction, but your essence is drawn back down

through the clouds, over the center of a rocky
mountain range covered in snow and ice. Another

flash, and there you are amongst the city of Thar
Amphala. There's another flash, and you see a hole

in the ground, a large carved tunnel, you see
hooded figures, blurry at the edges of this vision,

emerging. And there you see, stepping out of the
tunnel, Delilah Briarwood, with both eyes. Steps

out. Her hood up, pulls it back. She glances off
to a direction you can't see and goes, "It's

"almost ready."

A voice comes in through your ear.
"Like what you see?"

LAURA: I hate him so much.

MATT: Immediately, you pull out of the scrying
experience and you look around, your friends are

staring at you. You guys didn't hear anything, but
once again you hear in your ear once more, "Don't

"worry, all shall be revealed soon enough."

MARISHA: Oh god!

MATT: "Sleep well, young Keyleth."

LAURA: What's going on?

LIAM: Where did you look? What did you see?

MARISHA: There's no safe place to hide. He can see
us everywhere. We should go.

TRAVIS: Where?

LAURA: You're outside of the mansion. Come in the
mansion.

MARISHA: What if he comes here? What if he comes
here to try and find us and he kills all of these

people? What if we led him here?

LAURA: He knows. We'll lead him anywhere,
darling.

LIAM: And Delilah.

MARISHA: She's alive. She's at Thar Amphala, both
eyes this time.

TALIESIN: I was going to ask.

LAURA: She'll remove it soon enough.

MARISHA: She said, "It's almost time; it's
happening soon." Whatever he's doing it's

happening soon and then he spoke to me in my
vision. He said my name. He knows... She's alive.

TALIESIN: I know.

MARISHA: How many times?

TALIESIN: As many as it takes.

LIAM: One more.

LAURA: Can you Plane Shift us from here, from the
mansion?

TALIESIN and MARISHA: No.

MATT: No, you can Plane Shift from the mansion.

TRAVIS: Plus, we need to rest.

TALIESIN: We have to rest.

LIAM: We'll have to do it in the morning.

MARISHA: I can burn my 9th-level spell and get us
there right now, but we'll lose the mansion.

TALIESIN: We need the mansion to sleep. We can't
sleep anywhere without the mansion.

MARISHA: I can sleep and I can Plane Shift us when
we wake up from this mansion.

LAURA: Is that a 9th-level spell?

MARISHA: Seventh. We could Transport via Plants. And I
found a tree to get us to--

MATT: Shorecomb.

SAM and MARISHA: Shorebottom.

LAURA: As awful as it is, we need to sleep, if we
can't fight him in the morning or anytime.

TRAVIS: We have to prepare. The tunnels have toxic
fumes and all sorts of stuff.

TALIESIN: We're going to have to breathe.

MARISHA: Go underwater.

TALIESIN: We're going to have to figure out a way
to survive.

MATT: Deal with poisoned air and breathing
underwater.

SAM: No problem.

TRAVIS: You know, like you do.

LIAM: Visit the Water Ashari for those--

LAURA: Things. Yeah, that's smart.

MARISHA: I could also cast Water Breathing on
eight of us.

TALIESIN: Will that save us from the poison?

MATT: Water Breathing gets you under the water,
but you still have poison in the air once you get

to the tubes.

MARISHA: Yeah, but do the things from the Water
Ashari, would those help with poison as well?

MATT: Those help you filter water into air. Poison
is a different thing.

LAURA and SAM: Heroes' Feast.

LAURA: Immune to poison. We have two chalices.

TALIESIN: From the palace.

SAM: Chalice from the palace?

TALIESIN: It's the brew that's true.

SAM: Okay. That could work.

LIAM: We have to go so many places.

TALIESIN: It's going to be all right. We have one
advantage that they do not.

SAM: Opposable thumbs.

TALIESIN: That too. Only one of us is
underestimating the other. We can do this.

LIAM: That's a good point.

SAM: Them.

TALIESIN: You're fine. We know we have to be
careful.

MARISHA: The plan then is sleep and then we go to
Shorecomb. And then we go under this volcano to

the anvil?

LIAM: Are we borrowing some water breathing
equipment before we go?

MARISHA: I can do that to us. I can cast Water
Breathing on all of us.

TALIESIN: Heroes' Feast, Water Breathing,
platinum, and then you're going to hit something

with a hammer.

MARISHA: Okay.

SAM: Bank in the morning?

LAURA: Bank in the morning. Then off.

MARISHA: And then through a tree, and then there.

TALIESIN and MARISHA: At dawn we bank.

(laughter)

LAURA: Fabulous. Shall we rest up?

TRAVIS: Yes.

SAM: One more thing before we go to sleep. Not to
draw this out any longer. I'm going to, right

before bed, attempt to turn into, using my True
Polymorph, one of those fun, winged, tall

creatures we met at Pelor's place.

LAURA: An angel?

MATT: Turn who into that? Yourself? Yeah, the
planetar. You can definitely do that.

MARISHA: With True Polymorph?

LAURA: You've seen it.

SAM: I've seen it, but I don't know it.

MATT: Are you doing this privately or in front of
everybody?

SAM: In my room.

MATT: In your room, you suddenly grow to the size
of an 11- to 12-foot, muscular humanoid. Bald head,

deep blue skin, with beautiful white angel wings
that unfurl for 24 foot, tip to tip length, you

feel holy power surge through your body.

SAM: Okay, just wanted to make sure that would
work. Cool.

TRAVIS: Do you do anything?

SAM: No, I just stand there naked looking at
myself. Anything else that happens in that room,

you don't want to know.

MATT: As the winged Dr. Manhattan stands there in
his room, staring at his own Manhattan junk--

LIAM: So this is what it sounds like when doves
cry!

MATT: There's a slow rendition of Hallelujah as
you touch yourself for the night.

(singing) Hallelujah, hallelujah.

(speaking) The wings curl
in. All right.

LIAM: That was the most home-game moment we've
ever had.

MATT: And on that note, we're going to close
tonight's episode. (laughs) All right, guys,

thanks again for playing, thank you guys for
watching. Thank you once again Darin De Paul for

coming and guesting, closing Sprigg's story in an
interesting way. I wasn't sure how he was going to

do that. We'll see you guys next week. Be safe,
love each other, and is it Thursday yet? Good

night.

ALL: (singing) Hallelujah!

[music]