MATT: Hello, everyone, and welcome to tonight's
episode of Critical Role, where a bunch of us

nerdy-ass voice actors sit around and play
Dungeons and Dragons at the same table. Thank you

so much for your patience. As mentioned last week,
we're adjusting and changing and updating things

and taking your feedback and our feedback, and
everyone's been working really hard to make this

set progressively better and better to make it a
better experience. This is our first time all at

the same table since the home game.

(cheering)

MATT: But no, seriously, don't do that. That's
okay.

MARISHA: Still in front of a green screen.

MATT: Still in front of a green screen. Totally.
Thank you guys so much for being patient. We are

up now, and let's dive into the announcements for
the evening. We don't have a whole lot this week,

but we have, let's see. Any updates as far as the
merch is concerned?

LAURA: The merchandises? Well, you know, we do
have that amazing David Mack poster.

SAM: But I thought that was only a limited-release
item, Laura.

LAURA: It is, actually, but it's available for
three more weeks. The signed version is available

for two more weeks. And since it is a limited-time
release thing, if you know anybody that watches

the show but is maybe way behind and they're not
watching live, it would probably be nice to let

them know about it, because I still get some
messages about the Joe Mad poster that people

can't get anymore. So it will be gone after this,
so it's nice if they can get it, too. And we have

the Scanlan tee, and we have our amazing Slayer's
Take aprons. Slayer's Cake aprons.

SAM: Let's talk about the Scanlan t-shirt a little
more.

LAURA: We have the amazing Scanlan concert tee.

TRAVIS: That asshole? No, we're good.

LAURA: And, you know, a bunch of other t-shirts as
well, and a whole bunch of other things. Go check

out the shop on geekandsundry.com and you'll see
all of the merchandise that's available.

MATT: All right, cool. Also, a reminder, guys, the
Tal'Dorei campaign guide's coming out at GenCon in

August. Pre-orders go up, I believe, mid-July, and
I think if you pre-order it, I think it's like

five extra bucks or something like that, you get
the PDF download immediately. All the information

is on Green Ronin's website, so go check it out if
you have any questions there, because they can

answer them better than I can. I'm steeped in art
approvals and everything right now.

MARISHA: The art is looking so good!

MATT: It's looking awesome. We've pulled in some--
we've got a lot of community artists that we

pushed over towards Green Ronin, so they've been
pulling people from the community, which makes me

happy, because I want to get as many of you guys
involved as possible in this.

LAURA: As many of us as possible?

LIAM: I can't draw for shit.

SAM: I can do some art.

MATT: I was referring to the community, not you
guys.

TRAVIS: Sam's art is really rare.

MATT: Yeah, I've seen it, and it's pretty... yeah.
They all wind up looking like genitals. It's

crazy. We have the podcast, which is now up.

(cheering)

MATT: Audio podcast, for people who want to save
their data and listen on long drives.

LAURA: Who don't want to look at our faces.

MATT: I don't blame you.

TRAVIS: For no other reason than for those Sam
Riegel advertisements at the beginning.

MATT: So we got that. And we have Wednesday Club.

TALIESIN: Yeah, Wednesday Club next week. I don't
actually know what we're doing, because I haven't

looked at the 30-plus messages in that text
thread, because I've been working on a thing that

I can't talk about yet that's going to be really,
really great.

SAM: Taliesin, I feel like most of the time you
don't know what you're going to be talking about.

TALIESIN: That's true.

SAM: So maybe you should just have a go-to. Like,
it's going to be Daredevil again. Or something.

Just something.

TALIESIN: What are we going to-- yeah, we need a
go-to. What was going to be our blanket go-to?

I'm not sure.

TRAVIS: Punisher.

MARISHA: Great Lakes Avengers

TALIESIN: Great Lakes Avengers is actually pretty
spectacular. It's hard to say it.

Great Lakes Avengers.

MATT: Make a big effort to bring back the What
the--?! comics.

LIAM: What about the scientology graphic novels?

TALIESIN: I haven't read those. Do they have
those?

LIAM: Well, I'm up to level six.

(laughter)

TALIESIN: Do you want to be a guest on the show?

MATT: You've almost learned invisibility! Anyway.
Apologies to all our scientology fans.

SAM: Yeah, we just lost half the audience.

MATT: All right, so.

LIAM: Sea Org uniforms, watching a giant-screen TV
of Critical Role.

(laughter)

MATT: Exactly. And Signal Boost?

MARISHA: Jeff Lewis. We announced it on Tuesday on
Talks. Yeah, Jeff Lewis, still Jeff.

MATT: All right, cool. Then, unless we have
anything else to announce, let's get into

tonight's episode of Critical Role.

[dramatic music]

MATT: Welcome back. So, getting us up to speed as
to what happened last time. Vox Machina had

recently been visited by an old ally, Scanlan
Shorthalt, who had spent the past year or so--

LAURA: An old ally.

MATT: Yeah. Hey. Building a reputation and a
criminal ring in Ank'harel as a forging master in

various types of furniture and accoutrements. And
upon realizing through the aid of one his hired help,

Lionel, or Chud. Chad? Chod. Whatever the various
pronunciations were that came through. Discovered

that there was a second sphere, apparently on some
sort of pyramid-like ziggurat structure not far

from Ank'harel. Upon you returning as Scanlan to
notify the party, you all made your way to

Ank'harel, briefly met with Kaylie, and saw a
little bit of the setup that they've been building

for the past year or so, and then made your way
towards the Smouldercrown Mountains to the

southeast of Ank'harel, where apparently this
structure resides and this cult, that is apparently

sacrificing objects of magical power towards this
black sphere. So you made your way to the

outskirts of this mountain, discovered that the
entrance that was previously there had been

collapsed, and discovered a new, carved entrance
into the mountain, were beset by a few traps, made

your way into a far corner, set up a mansion, and
after dealing rather briskly with a cluster of

undead that had built up on the outside of your
entryway to your magnificent mansion, you made

your way to the final chamber where the structure
was residing. A number of cultists there were in

the process of quickly, hastily throwing these
objects to the top and then noticed that you had

come as interlopers into this space. At which
point you realized the head of cult, at least this

group here at the top of the pyramid, was none
other, seemingly, than Lady Delilah Briarwood.

ALL: No, no, no!

MATT: Who then protected herself and two of her
cult members beneath the veil of a Prismatic Wall

in the shape of a sphere, and you did battle with
a number of undead and other cultists and

followers of the Whispered One that involved
largely just throwing a bunch of them into the

ceiling, including yourselves, thanks to a
well-placed Reverse Gravity. Scanlan had darted

past the Prismatic Wall with a clever use of
Dimension Door.

SAM: Should've died.

MATT: Actually, no. Looking at the rules, too. It
was a good call to bring it back, in my opinion.

But nevertheless, they escaped seemingly into the
sphere, Delilah and two of these cultists, after

turning it from this glowing white back into its
black magic-absorbing self, leaving you all there.

Managed to cleanse Pike of her Feeblemind spell,
and after acquiring a few of these magical

artifacts that were left unbroken, and some cult
robes, and apparently symbols of this cult of the

Whispered One, you now stand in the middle of this
cavern on the outside of where this second

Ziggurat exists, deciding what to do next, and
what the next step of this journey means for you.

So, Vox Machina, what would you like to do?

LAURA: What should we do next? What does the next
step on this journey mean for us?

LIAM: I'm getting wicked deja-vu, brah.

MARISHA: That was so existential of you, Vex.
Wow.

LAURA: No, but really. What should we fucking do?
Should we go through it?

MARISHA: That was a really meaty spell she had.
I've never seen that before.

ASHLEY: Thank you, Keyleth, for bringing me back.

SAM: I don't know how much time has passed since
the fight, but

can Taryon cast Revivify on Doty still?

MATT: No, that much time has passed,
unfortunately.

LAURA: Doty's gone again?

TRAVIS: Did you lose a second one?

SAM: I came back to get him!

TRAVIS: He's like iPhones, they just come out
every so often.

TALIESIN: The Doty 6 is going to have a much
better camera. It's going to have better voice

recognition. You're really going to be happy with
it.

MATT: You could use the same funds to bring that
Doty back, it would just take you the week in

reconstruction anyway. But you're not losing that
Doty. The other one, you unfortunately lost in the

City of Dis, but this can be brought back at the
same cost of a new one. So you're not having to

reconstruct an entirely new Doty.

MARISHA: Recycling.

MATT: Yeah.

SAM: But I have to get his body somewhere.

MATT: Yes, you do.

SAM: Great.

TALIESIN: I kind of want to collapse this cave.

TRAVIS: With us in it?

TALIESIN: No, not with us in it. I don't think we
can destroy the ziggurat, but I think we can at

least make it extremely difficult to find and get
to, and make it very uncomfortable for anything

that tries to come through.

LAURA: That's true. That would be smart.

SAM: But then we can't come through.

LAURA: We have another entrance. We have the one
in Whitestone.

LIAM: Also, though, this is an exit. Do you want
the only exit to be in your basement? The only

one? Or are there more of these places?

SAM: Also, does each portal go to the same place,
or do they go to different parts?

TALIESIN: We saw the spire in both images,
correct?

MATT: With the brief glance through the-- Well,
the arrow was in the one beneath Whitestone.

Through your connecting with Sarenrae, the vision
that you received through that portal seemed to be

very similar to what Vex described seeing through
her arrow.

LAURA: It could be the same portal or they could
both be within view of the tower.

TALIESIN: I'm imagining a circle of spheres.

MARISHA: And both seem to suck magic in, correct?

LAURA: Yeah, they do the same thing.

TALIESIN: I think we'll have an easier time
keeping track of what is coming in and out if we

just have one to deal with as opposed to two.

LAURA: That's assuming there's only two.

TRAVIS: Is it a stupid idea to shoot another
Oracle Arrow through this one

and see if it looks the same?

TALIESIN: I don't know if we have the option.

LAURA: I can try, but in Whitestone, there was at
least a visual path toward the ball, but I don't

think there is one here, is there?

MATT: Not within the radius.

LAURA: Not within the magic orb.

MARISHA: It's too tight a room?

LIAM: I think I like your idea, but I worry that
we're upping the odds of-- Listen, we just found

out that she's alive, or something. She's going to
unleash some sort of fresh hell somewhere. We're

upping the odds of it happening under your living
room.

TALIESIN: I know. It's just, what if it happens in
both places at once?

LAURA: What if we collapse the one in Whitestone?

TALIESIN: It's directly under the castle. We would
have to maybe fill it with, I don't know. Submerge

it or some such.

LAURA: At least try to block off the entrance to
where they can't get out.

MARISHA: Is there an underground water source near
Whitestone?

TALIESIN: There's acid pits.

MARISHA: We could try and flood it with acid.

ASHLEY: What if we blocked off that entrance when
we go inside?

TALIESIN: Let's at least make sure this cave is
collapsed. We'll leave the chamber standing, but

every entrance to this cave should be collapsed.
We know there's three of them.

LAURA: What if we block this one, and then we
block the one in Whitestone, and then we just--

SAM: Game over!

LAURA: I think we win, then, right?

TALIESIN: We'll be able to get back in if we need
to, we just want to make sure that no one can

wander in and out of here without making a bit of
a ruckus.

LAURA: So there are three entrances that we know
of, and we need to block all of them.

TALIESIN: One's already blocked.

SAM: And one, do we know where it is?

LAURA: There's one up top that we heard about.

LIAM: How much time do I have left on my wings? A
lot, probably, like a half hour or 40 minutes? It

wasn't that long.

MATT: Well, no, actually, because when you used
your wings outside, you guys came inside. Did you

use your wings during the battle?

LIAM: Yeah, I did.

MATT: Did you guys take a long rest?

TALIESIN: We did, because we had the mansion.

MATT: You did. So by this conversation happening,
the rummaging through the bodies, inspecting the

vicinity, I'd say you maybe have 20 more minutes
on your wings.

LAURA: Oh yeah, did we rummage through the bodies?
Let's rummage through those bodies.

MATT: You did, that's how you found the objects.

MARISHA: While they rummage, Keyleth wants to test
the radius.

SAM: No, we found the objects on that cart.

MATT: That's right, you found them on the cart.
You did not actually rummage through the bodies.

LAURA: Is there anything on the bodies?

MATT: Make an investigation check.

LAURA: Whoa, that was high. 23.

MATT: 23, okay. Over the next 15 or so minutes, as
you go through and begin to gather the corpses,

most of the skeletons out here that have armor on,
it's old, rusted, destroyed, broken armor, and the

weapons either fell apart in the battle against
you or are just barely usable or functional at

this point in time. Of the various cultists'
bodies, the armor on the black guard that you were

battling is a pretty nice-looking set of full
plate. You also find similar symbols, these dark

iron necklaces that you found on the previous
cultists.

LAURA: We'll take those. We can take the plate
armor if there's room for it in the bag, and then

see if it's actually magical outside of the
field.

TALIESIN: How many of those necklaces have we
found?

MATT: Six.

TALIESIN: Six necklaces.

LAURA: All right, and we already had two, so now
all of us have one.

TRAVIS: I can make room in the Bag of Holding for
the armor, but I have to get rid of one of these

two bodies. Does anybody object if I throw one of
the bodies at the little black marble?

LIAM: I would kind of like to see that.

TALIESIN: Actually, I think that's a pretty good
idea, but you have to remove it from the bag

before you walk over to the marble.

TRAVIS: I have to what?

TALIESIN: You have to remove the body from the bag
before you walk over.

TRAVIS: Oh right, okay. So can I walk back to the
fork?

TALIESIN: Remove them both.

TRAVIS: Back to the fork. I pull out-- both? We
only need one.

TALIESIN: All right.

TRAVIS: I pull one body out.

LAURA: He likes to save his bodies for later.

TRAVIS: Listen, I'll run my store the way I run my
store. I pull one body out.

MATT: Which, just as a note, the visual of Grog
pulling this body out of the Bag of Holding is

much like trying to pull a Slim Jim out of the
wrapper. It pulls weird and you have to yank.

TRAVIS: What an analogy. The sausage without the
casing.

MATT: Yeah, it's like by sections, and you watch
him strain as you pull some out and it folds over.

It's just really awkward and awful. But yeah, you
manage to get the body out.

TRAVIS: Close the Bag of Holding and I just drag
him back over.

MATT: (impacts) Up each step.

TRAVIS: Everybody ready? And a one, and a two, and
a (whoosh).

MATT: As you throw it, it impacts, and you watch
as the body stops in mid-air from the gravity,

stopping where it stands. Its legs fold over, and
like a broken physics engine, you watch as the

body (crackling) twists, cracks, and gets sucked
in.

LAURA: Let's not do that. Let's not go through
that hole.

TRAVIS: It really doesn't seem that bad.

TALIESIN: I kind of want to experiment. Would you
mind losing one of the necklaces, or no?

LAURA: We can try.

TALIESIN: Let's put a necklace on the other
cadaver and then throw it through.

TRAVIS: I literally just walked all the way over
there and now you want me to go back?

TALIESIN: You need the cardio, let's not pretend
you don't. We're going to put one of the necklaces

on the body and throw it through. It'll still be
fun to watch.

TRAVIS: I walk back out of the realm of the thing,
pinching my belly fat because apparently Percy

thinks I'm a couple pounds heavy.

LAURA: It's all that ale, Grog.

TALIESIN: I can only mock you on graph paper. I
take what I can fucking get, man.

TRAVIS: I'll pull the other Slim Jim out of the
bag.

MATT: (suction sound) You place one of the various
symbols around its neck and then Babe Ruth-style

lob it, and you watch as it gets within a certain
proximity, the orb seems to shimmer and shift open

ever so slightly. It's similar to what you saw, it
opened to a mouthed gateway when Delilah and the

other cultists walked through. The body still
rattles, and you watch it twist a bit, but it's a

far less impactful transition.

LAURA: All right, so now we have seven of those
things, and we have to get eight of us through.

TALIESIN: One, two, three, four, five, six, seven,
eight, yes. Somebody will have to stay behind, but

we'll figure that out if we go that direction.
There's other options.

SAM: Who's the eighth?

TALIESIN: You.

LAURA: You and you, bitch.

SAM: I live in Ank'harel and I'm a crime boss.

LAURA: Yeah, and you're here with us now.

ASHLEY: You're not planning on going with us?

SAM: I hadn't been invited.

LAURA: Scanlan.

TRAVIS: That was pretty-- I mean, from a third
party, non-influenced or partial perspective,

flipping gravity was pretty cool.

LIAM: Plus, he's got a lot of big words now. You
want to be around to see them in action.

MARISHA: Technically, I can flip gravity. I don't
know. I felt like I should put it on the table.

SAM: Oh, okay, see, you don't really need me after
all.

MARISHA: No, that's not what I meant. I just
wanted to be honest.

LAURA: I haven't seen you do it.

MARISHA: Well, it hasn't been relevant yet.

LIAM: You're also really clever. Forget your
spells. And funny, and it's good to have you

around, so yeah, do you want to go someplace
really horrible with your family, or what?

SAM: All right. Are you all offering?

TRAVIS: I don't know, Pike. Can he earn his way
back in in this manner?

ASHLEY: Well, I do think we could use the help.

SAM: The help. Okay, that's good enough for me.
I'm in. Will fancy boy be joining us?

ASHLEY: Are you jealous of him?

SAM: No. He's part of the team.

ASHLEY: He is part of the team.

LAURA: Tary, what do you think?

SAM: Shit! This again!

LIAM: Tary, it's up to you, but you were talking
about going back.

SAM: I'm sorry, I was busy caring for my deceased
robot.

LAURA: Is Doty...

SAM: No, he's fine. He'll be fine. I just have to
rebuild him. It'll take some time and money, which

I don't have.

ASHLEY: I wish I could help, Tary, but I think
that's out of my...

TALIESIN: We can get him back to Whitestone, he'll
be perfectly fine.

We have everything we need there.

SAM: All right. I need him for the brigade!

TALIESIN: Of course.

LAURA: The brigade, right.

SAM: Yes. But I can't carry him. Grog, would you
be able to...

MATT: "I can carry him!" And you look over and
Chod goes over and grabs Doty. (grunt) "Should I

"put him somewhere?"

SAM: Not yet, Chod. Wait until we get somewhere
where I can work on it.

MATT: "Okay."

TALIESIN: I say we head back to Whitestone. We
gather resources, we figure out how we're getting

where we're going to get.

MARISHA: We could theoretically forge more of
these, right? Or do you think they're blessed?

TALIESIN: Let's find out. We now know they work.

LIAM: I wonder if we could take them to Allura or
to Shaun.

LAURA: Well, have Tary Identify them. Maybe it's
something specific.

MARISHA: Yeah, are they magical, Tary? Are these
magical?

SAM: Let me look.

LAURA: Outside of the field.

MARISHA: Outside of the field.

MATT: They are magical. It's a mild enchantment.
It's not extremely strong, but it is very

specific, and it is more of an attunement to a
specific plane. It has something to do with

whoever's bearing it, or whatever's wearing it, is
already partially crossed to a certain extent, so

it limits the impact of the transition.

SAM: Okay. I don't understand any of that. But
there you have it.

LAURA: Do you have any more Identify left?

SAM: Sure.

LAURA: Can we have you Identify the plate armor
that the big guy was wearing, so we can see if

it's magical?

SAM: I do that.

MATT: Very well. So this is Plate Armor of
Resistance to radiant.

LAURA: So it's immune to Pike.

TALIESIN: It's anti-Pike armor.

MARISHA: Well, that kind of clues us in on a lot,
actually.

SAM: Chod can't use that, can he?

MATT: Do you ask this question of him?

SAM: Chod, can you use this?

MATT: "Can I have it?"

SAM: I mean, do we need it?

ASHLEY: Well...

SAM: Do we need it?

TALIESIN: Yes, let's not...

SAM: Do we need it?

TALIESIN: Yes.

TRAVIS: Radiant means all gods or just good gods?

LAURA: Just good gods I think.

TALIESIN: I would like to put somebody in this
armor in Whitestone so that whoever comes through

the portal, the first thing they see is something
that they feel comfortable and familiar with.

MATT: "Those boots are better than my boots. Can I
have the boots?"

TALIESIN: Yes. Well, what kind of boots are they?

MATT: It's full armor plate. They're still part of
the armor set.

TALIESIN: We can get you something else nice. I
have a plan for this armor!

LAURA: I have so many things. Wait, hold on, Chod.
There's-- Oh, Chod! Do you want a jewelry box that

makes music?

ASHLEY: No, you can't give him that jewelry box!

MATT: He leans over to Scanlan. "Hey, boss. Do I
want a jewelry box?"

SAM: Yes. Just say yes.

MATT: "Yes, I would love a jewelry box. Thank
you."

LAURA: Do you? It makes music. You like music.

MATT: "It makes music, do I want it?"

SAM: When a girl offers you something, you just
say yes.

MATT: "Yes, please. Take all of it." Now he's
carrying the music box and Doty.

(laughter)

LAURA: I'll mark that off.

LIAM: Lionel, I have the perfect thing for you.
And I pull out the metal skullcap.

MATT: "That's loud."

LAURA: Wait. Wait. Is that the Clarota one?

LIAM: No, that's the Lionel Gayheart one. People
will have a harder time

fucking with you, in general.

LAURA: That is the Clarota one, wasn't it? You're
giving the Clarota thing,

the resistance-to-mind stuff?

LIAM: Yes, I am.

LAURA: Because we could maybe use that.

TRAVIS: Yeah, there's still an idiot in this
group.

LAURA: Yeah, there's maybe a Grog in the group
that could totally use it!

LIAM: I've had this hat for years.

LAURA: I know! So maybe you should remember that
you have it and give it to fucking Grog!

LIAM: I've known that I've had it, and I've talked to him
about it. No one's ever asked about it, you've

never asked about it.

LAURA: I didn't know you had it!

LIAM: You are a hoarder. You are many good
things--

LAURA: No! I'm just saying, if Grog has resistance
to mind control, then that would be really good

for us in a fight with somebody that's really
powerfully--

LIAM: Grog. This skullcap that Lionel is wearing
requires attunement. Would you like to give up one

of your really lethal weapons--

TRAVIS: No. Didn't we talk about this?

LAURA: I didn't know it required attunement.

TALIESIN: Sense of dignity, perhaps?

TRAVIS: Ooh, hey! Is he heavy? Don't you have your
own Bag of Holding?

MATT: "No."

TRAVIS: Oh.

LAURA: Not everybody has a Bag of Holding, Grog.

TRAVIS: I'll just give him mine.

(laughter)

LAURA: We just give him everything.

TALIESIN: We would turn on you so fast. Let's get
back to Whitestone.

LAURA: Okay, okay, okay. How do we collapse these
tunnels--

MATT: "You guys can keep putting things on me.
That's fine."

TALIESIN: Well, we have, thankfully, a
professional tunnel collapser.

LAURA: Well, that's true!

TRAVIS: Yep. Oh, me?

TALIESIN: So let's find the upstairs entrance and
get rid of that--

LAURA: I'll do that from outside.

MARISHA: I was trying to test the radius of this
sphere, too. Am I still doing that?

Is that still relevant?

TALIESIN: Well, it's worth noting just in case we
cannot find the opening.

MATT: It comes to about 180 feet from the actual
sphere.

MARISHA: Wow! That's a long way. It's the same as
the other one?

MATT: It's similar from when you originally tested
it. It was about the width of the whole chamber

underneath Whitestone. And that chamber was more
cleared out, more of the actual structure was

visible. This one is still partially buried and
you're only seeing the upper half of it.

MARISHA: Okay.

LIAM: Do I even have the ability to fly in here?
Is there an outer edge where the magic is not--

MATT: In that chamber, you cannot fly.

LIAM: Cannot. Okay.

LAURA: And I feel like we're going to run into
traps if we try to find it from this way. Maybe

find it from the outside and just collapse it.

TALIESIN: All right.

LAURA: That way we don't have to go through a
series of shit.

TALIESIN: Let's double-reinforce, just pile-drive
the one that's already a little collapsed and make

it really collapsed. And then we'll collapse the
others while we're leaving.

LAURA: Yeah.

TRAVIS: (happy grunts) Is that permission?

TALIESIN: That is more than permission. That is
permission and an audience. We're very excited.

TRAVIS: That's amazing. I'll go for it, and I'll
whack on a wall. Do I just hit a wall anywhere?

LAURA: Just in the tunnels, maybe?

SAM: Wait. You're an engineer, aren't you?

TALIESIN: Yes. No, we're going to be pointing at
the things that need to collapse.

TRAVIS: Okay, I'm ready any time.

LAURA: Do you want to go up and see if we can find
the thing up top?

MARISHA: Yeah! Sure! You guys have fun
collapsing.

LAURA: It's daytime now, right? Outside?

MATT: At this time, it would be. Yes.

LAURA: So can me and Keyleth go try to find the
entrance up top so

we can do something to that one?

Matt: Sure, okay.

TRAVIS: Or should we wait 'til we collapse the
tunnels?

TALIESIN: Well, they can find theirs while we get
our tunnels collapsed.

TRAVIS: Yeah, I'm sure it won't fall on me. No big
deal.

ASHLEY: I'm going to help! I'm going to help you.

TRAVIS: Yeah!

ASHLEY: Yeah.

MARISHA: If it falls on you, we can fish you out.
Just survive a little bit.

ASHLEY: Keyleth's got our back. She'll burrow in
and pull us out.

LAURA: Just earring us if something happens.

MARISHA: Badger. Badgers burrow, right? Do badgers
burrow?

LIAM: They do burrow.

TRAVIS: That's why I said stay, but that's all
right!

MATT: (laughs) All righty. So you guys all make
your way back to the second entrance, the hidden,

illusory one. You all back out of it, leaving just
Pike and Grog on the inside.

TALIESIN: And we're helping them figure out where
to punch to make everything--

MATT: Okay, cool. So I need you to go ahead and make
an investigation check.

TALIESIN: All right.

MATT: And you can assist him, which gives him
advantage.

SAM: Ah. I will assist you.

TALIESIN: Thank you. Oh, yes. That's excellent.
It's a 19.

(laughter)

MATT: Total of 19? Okay. Halfway through the
hallway, you find the place where the initial

collapse was started. Or you start looking to see
what they used to destroy the first entrance that

you were supposed to come through. You can see the
way it's carved, designed, especially the smooth

entrance. Which, now that you get a better look at
it, that soft, spongy ground, that dust you were

finding: you begin to recognize the pattern of
what carved its way in. You saw it used at the top

of the Emberhold when you were fighting the queen
there. It was a series of Disintegration rays used

to carve away into this mountain. That's what that
dust is that's on the ground. And why it's such a

smooth entrance on this side.

MARISHA: But I rolled so shitty on that nature
check before, right?

MATT: Mm-hm. However, because it was just a series
of magic Disintegrations pushed through to create

this second opening, it's a little harder to find
points in the structure where the weakness is. So

you begin to cut away at some areas, you get like
a small axe or one of the various objects that

you've-- pointed objects that you've acquired over
the--

TRAVIS: I do have just a regular pickaxe.

MATT: Yeah. And you just hit at some areas, and
you do find one section where you would think it

would be a relatively weak point of impact between
the various rocks and stones that hold this up.

TALIESIN: Hit this and stand on this side of it,
and that should do some intense damage.

MATT: You would recommend hitting it and then
running.

TALIESIN: And run in this direction.

(laughter)

TRAVIS: Okay, Pike.

ASHLEY: Yeah.

TRAVIS: I want you to warm up this spot for me,
and then you're going to jump on my back and then

I'm going to hit it.

ASHLEY: Okay. I jump on your back now?

TRAVIS: No, no, you hit it.

ASHLEY: Like a backpack?

TRAVIS: Yeah, and then you can come up on my
back.

ASHLEY: Oh, I hit it.

LIAM: Do we jump on three, or is it one, two,
three, go?

MATT: Pike. Go ahead and make a strength check, as
Grog throws you up to the ceiling to where the one

place in the rock structure is.

ASHLEY: Yeah boi.

TRAVIS: Ready to run, just in case she just goes
beast mode.

MARISHA: We should make little Pike backpacks.

LAURA: Oh my gosh, how cute would that be?

SAM: With, like, Ashley's face right here.

(laughter)

ASHLEY: No, guys, that doesn't need to be
anywhere.

LIAM: We'll just repurpose those Yoda bags.

ASHLEY: 13.

MATT: 13? Okay, so you take her and you alley-oop
and you (impact) hit it and you watch it

(cracking) and some dust falls and settles. A
couple of small pebbles (falling pebbles). And you

grab her like, oh! Okay, seems okay for now.

TRAVIS: All right. Get on, Yoda.

ASHLEY: I try to wrap my legs around, but they
don't go.

TRAVIS: I rage first.

MARISHA: Just her but with, like, a jockey on a
horse. (straining)

MATT: Okay, so it just happens naturally. So go
ahead and roll a strength check with advantage.

MARISHA: Those gnomish thighs.

TRAVIS: 23.

MATT: 23. So for the height of the cavern here,
you get yourself a nice-- you crouch low and full

shoryuken-style, like (impact) punch into the roof
and as you hit it, impact and go clean through and

bring it to the ground. Land, and you hear the
(crumbling).

TALIESIN: All right, run.

MATT: You guys start bolting through, and as
you're rushing, Pike, you're looking over and you

can see the walls (impacts). You guys are bolting
out as well. Both of you guys go ahead and make

dexterity saving throws, please.

TRAVIS: I forgot we had to roll for this part.

ASHLEY: Me too.

TRAVIS: I got advantage.

LAURA: Oh god, don't drop Pikeys.

TRAVIS: Oh, that's good.

ASHLEY: Okay okay, 16.

TRAVIS: 20. No-- 18.

MATT: Okay, so as you guys are bolting, you're
holding onto Grog, and you manage to look behind

just fast enough to see one of the walls is
about to full-on collapse at the side, and you go

ahead and grab the side of Grog's ear and yank his
vision that way.

TRAVIS: (groan)

ASHLEY: Just going to start kicking him in the
side.

MATT: He starts turning off to that side, and you
manage to just avoid that side of the wall as it

(impact).

SAM: Gif it! Gif it!

(laughter)

MATT: So you start steering him from behind like a
prized racehorse, and making your way through this

cavern until eventually the back half of the
cavern collapses and comes to a rest. The front

half is not collapsing, but you do-- you have a
large portion of the path leading to the ziggurat

is now just rubble and rocks.

ASHLEY: Okay, okay, okay! Good job!

TRAVIS: Nice job!

TALIESIN: Well done, well done.

ASHLEY: We're getting somewhere. But we still
need-- there's still more to do?

LAURA: Yeah, there's that whole other path. There's
that whole-- there's that whole other path and

then the one up top.

ASHLEY: Okay.

LAURA: But I could hear a rumble so I know you
guys did good on one of those paths already.

ASHLEY: Thanks! We did pretty good.

MATT: Okay. The rest of it is fairly easy to do
because you find the closer you get to the

entrance, based on the previous collapsing,
elements of it have started to show cracks, like

the actual weight, because it was just a smooth
transition there. There was no load-bearing

platforms or any sort of general structure to the
interior of this cavern. So you guys manage to

pummel your way out, a large spinning punch on
this side and this side as you're rushing out, and

as you do (impacts) you hear it slamming and
hitting the ground behind you until you guys

emerge through. It looks like you're running
straight at a wall because the illusory wall is

still there, but you both just out the other side.
Immediate hot daylight hits you, the blaring sun

of the Marquet sky. Clear blue sky, no clouds.
You're now surrounded by a series of browned and

leafless trees with these large canopies that have
the same pear-like

fruit hanging from the branches.

TRAVIS: Fruit? Fruit?

MATT: Looks like fruit.

TRAVIS: Are you hungry?

ASHLEY: I'm hungry!

TRAVIS: Hold on. I hold up Pike to go grab some
fruit.

ASHLEY: We'll check it!

TRAVIS: Don't worry, it's just fruit.

MATT: Make a nature check.

LIAM: She can cure us of poison.

TALIESIN: Not if she's busy dying from both ends.

LAURA: (retching) The spins.

ASHLEY: Six.

MATT: It's hard to tell, but it looks really
tasty.

TRAVIS: Yeah, I got great nature skills! Five.

MATT: So. Looks tasty.

ASHLEY: You know what, Grog?

TRAVIS: What?

ASHLEY: As hungry as I am, I think we should wait
to have Keyleth look at this fruit.

TRAVIS: Why? It's just fruit!

ASHLEY: Because it's outside of this cave, and
what if it's a distraction like, "Oh, lookit!"

and you eat it and you just die?

TRAVIS: You know, I've found if fruit, when it
goes bad, falls from the tree, and it's still on

it! Therefore!

ASHLEY: And when fruit goes bad, it turns into
wine!

TRAVIS: You get crunk drunk!

ASHLEY: I think I'm going to wait for Keyleth.

TRAVIS: I'm going to have a bite.

MATT: Okay. You take a bite and it's got a fairly
moist center. You can see now, like a cactus, the

fruits here, most of the moisture is retained
within these fruit elements. The flavor, it's not

sweet, it's quite pungent, actually. It has a
bitterness to it. It's like putting your tongue in

a bunch of lye.

ASHLEY: Does it taste good?

TRAVIS: (disgusted noises)

ASHLEY: Maybe make some mayonnaise or something?
Want some mayonnaise to cleanse your palate?

TRAVIS: I take out the jug and I go: honey! Hey!

ASHLEY: Oh, all right!

LAURA: Just a couple of sticky warriors.

ASHLEY: No, Grog!

MATT: Just as a breeze blows a bit of a dust cloud
through, which coats your sticky hands with heavy

desert sand. You chew for a minute and feel the
crunch of granules inside your mouth where you

inhaled. (crunching)

TRAVIS: Jug goes away.

MATT: Back to you guys. You were looking for the
other entrance?

LAURA: Yeah, up top.

MATT: Investigation check.

LAURA: Both of us are looking for it. We're flying
up. Can you fly? So, we can fly up. I was going to

help you look for it because I figure you have a
better ability to collapse it than I do.

LIAM: What form are you going to take?

LAURA: A goldfish!

MARISHA: You could hold me in your hands. I've got
about 30 seconds. Just to fly up? Can I ride

side-saddle with you?

LAURA: Of course you can, yes! Put your arms
around me, Keyleth.

MARISHA: Okay! Your abs are nice, Vex!

LAURA: I know, I work out a lot.

MARISHA: Have you been working out over the past
year? Wow.

MATT: So, who's helming the investigation of this?
And you're aiding her, so go ahead and take it

with advantage.

LAURA: Same thing. 21.

MATT: All righty. I left on my collapsing music.

TRAVIS: They die.

MATT: So, as you glance around and do a pass over
the next 20 minutes or so. It's as fast as you

can, but it takes you a while to scan and get a
feel for it. You do see what looks to be, because

you felt the wind was coming through from the
interior, you see a small well-like crevasse where

the rocks have collapsed inward. You can see,
glancing over the top, the dark, five,

six-foot-wide hole that leads deeper into the
mountain.

LAURA: I hover down near it, but don't get off the
broom.

MARISHA: I lean over, I Druidcraft a pebble, toss
it in the hole.

MATT: Don't hear it.

LAURA: Oracle arrow down the hole.

MATT: Okay! Your vision watches as it--

LAURA: Oh, wait! Can she set the end of it on
fire?

MARISHA: Yeah!

MATT: Okay, the arrow now, burning, it leads you
into this dark space. It lights up the interior.

The arrow gets about maybe 60 feet before it hits
a rock and shatters.

LAURA: Aww.

MATT: It's not straight down. It has a series of
platforms, and it looks like it was designed to be

climbed down, so it's a bit zig-zaggy. It maybe
went 50, 60 feet and it hits a platform and

shatters. You lose your vision. But it does appear
to be a sizable tunnel used for entry.

LAURA: Let's just fucking collapse it.

MARISHA: All right!

LAURA: Well, just you fucking collapse because I
can't do shit to this thing.

MARISHA: Can I be like, all right! I want to see
if I can do this, like, cool maneuver. I'm going

to try to balance on the broom, and then jump off
the broom and go Keyteor and go into the--

LAURA: Into it, into it?! Or just around it so
you collapse the--

MARISHA: Nah!

LAURA: Oh, god, Keyleth!

MATT: You watch as she leaps and-- cloud of dust.
There is no sign she impacted, she's just gone.

You just see the side of the mountain.

LAURA: Fuck! Fuck! I get out the rope of
entanglement and hover close to the surface and

start hanging the rope down.

MATT: You glance in the inside with what little
bit of daylight is ricocheting off of the stone

interior. You can see the edges of Keyleth's
elemental form swimming through the rock. Because

she can do that.

LAURA: That's fucking crazy.

MARISHA: It's like Whac-A-Mole!

LAURA: Careful of traps, though, Keyleth, because
I'm sure there's something in there.

MARISHA: All right.

TALIESIN: How's it going down there? Have you
found it yet?

LAURA: Up here?

TALIESIN: Yes.

LAURA: Fabulous. Our friend, Keyleth, is amazing.

TALIESIN: She jumped in, didn't she?

LAURA: Yes, she did.

MARISHA: I'm going to Earth Glide to the bottom
and then peek my earthy face out of the top, see

if I can see down.

MATT: Are you following the actual path?

MARISHA: Yeah. I'll try to be conscious to make
sure I don't hit anything that looks precarious.

MATT: Make an investigation check.

LAURA: Don't hit any traps!

MARISHA: All right! Looking for traps! That's
okay, 15.

MATT: 15. Okay. You get about a third of the way
down, and you realize that one of the platforms

that you can land on has, uncharacteristically, a
softer cushion to it. Everything else is just

stone slabs. This one has almost--

SAM: Waterbed.

MATT: Yeah! (laughs) Like a spring air mattress,
it's crazy. No, it's like a woven, dried palm

frond-like cloth that's rested over it.

SAM: I'm sure it's nothing. Probably nothing. Just
leave it.

MARISHA: Just a drop-through? Can I, like-- fuck.

LAURA: Don't fuck with anything, Keyleth. Just
collapse it!

MARISHA: I found, like a, it might be a roof or--

TRAVIS: Yeah, I bet Clarota's in there.

MARISHA: What? Piranhas? I don't know if piranhas
are in rocks, but there might be something else in

there. There might be piranhas. Oh, I'll avoid
it.

MATT: Okay. You continue southward, scooting. You
can sense the very exterior of the wall that leads

to this path, so you're staying away from it as
you glide through the rock and earth. Eventually,

you come close to the very top, breaching the dome
that leads down into the chamber where you had

your battle naught but an hour ago. As you poke
your face through, you're looking down, you can

see the dark sphere there, hovering. You can see
the large pyramid structure below it, probably

about 60 feet below you. You can see the entrance
to the tunnel that leads into here. There is a

small ladder up along the wall that previously you
didn't notice because of the lack of light and

attention to the ceiling portion. But people were
either climbing up into or climbing down from.

LAURA: What do you see, Keyleth?

MARISHA: There's a ladder, man, there's some very
innovative people.

Yeah, these are very innovative cultists.

LAURA: Wait, you're looking down at the ziggurat?

MARISHA: Yeah! Hey, Pike and Grog, you guys did an
excellent job.

ASHLEY and TRAVIS: Oh thanks!

TRAVIS: It really means a lot.

LAURA: Get the fuck away from it, Keyleth!

MARISHA: Okay! Good idea!

MATT: By the way, it's fantastic. You all hear
through it (earth elemental grumbling).

TRAVIS: Oh, right, yeah!

MATT: The grumbling, low voice of an earth
elemental speaking to you through the earring.

LAURA: We still don't know how far that field
goes.

If you turn into Keyleth again, you're fucked!

MARISHA: (unintelligible grumbling)

LAURA: Get the fuck out!

MARISHA: I try and say, like, well, I know it's
about 180 feet because I tested before, so I'm

trying to be conscious of it. And then I back up a
little bit, and I go over to where that tunnel

was, and I start collapsing it down. As I work my
way up, I'm going (impacts).

MATT: Easily enough. You go by and you start
kicking through the tunnel as you go. You can

sense near proximity where any of the various weak
points are in the stone. Systematically go through

it, collapse it, piece by piece, until eventually
most of the tunnel is useless and unusable.

MARISHA: It's like a platformer.

MATT: How long can you maintain your wild shape?

MARISHA: Half of my level, or something like
that?

MATT: Oh, you're fine, then.

MARISHA: Or it's a third of my level? Still
several hours.

MATT: You emerge a little over an hour or so of
doing this. You emerge from the top. You watch as

Keyleth (rock impacts), looking like a large
version of Fantastic Four's Thing.

LAURA: I'm holding my rope for her. You don't--
okay.

MATT: It appears to be taken care of. All of the
entrances have been collapsed. There's no way that

you can imagine any average person can find their
way into this.

LAURA: Good job. Are you going to stay that way,
or are you turning back into you so that I can get

you on the broom?

MARISHA: (guttural noise of agreement)

(laughter)

LAURA: You can still talk, right? You just sound
low.

TRAVIS: No.

MARISHA: (guttural gibberish) I speak a different
language that I still don't think anyone has--

MATT: You can-- you maintain your mental acuity
and statistics when you're in there.

MARISHA: I don't know. We've gone back and forth
on it!

TALIESIN: It never occurred to you to speak
Common. Why would I do that?

MATT: The texture and timbre of your voice. You
can hear words, but it's almost like words being

made by slamming rocks together.

LAURA: Crazy.

MARISHA: Not that different from my normal
speech.

LIAM: I won't bore you with the details, but while
all that was going on, while they were searching

and they were destroying things, Vax wandered a
hundred feet out and sat down and did a little

talking to the mother of ravens, and basically
said, not expecting an answer:

This is it, isn't it?

MATT: Make a wisdom check.

ALL: Ooh.

LIAM: Not good. 13.

MATT: 13? That's enough. As you sit there in
silence with your eyes closed, beseeching the

attention of your patron, which seemingly wasn't
present when you attempted to in the proximity of

this doorway. The familiar soft, omnipresent voice
creeps into your psyche as she tells you, "It

"seems that the bender of fate is feeling the tug
of destiny. It's almost as if you're coming

"towards me. If you sense this path is the right
one, follow your instincts.

"Perhaps we'll meet soon enough."

LIAM: I will see you soon.

MATT: All right. So you guys reconvene.

LAURA: Hey, guys. How's it going?

LIAM: Hey, guys!

LAURA: What should we do?

TRAVIS: You should try the local fruit. It's
delicious.

ASHLEY: Yeah, you guys should try it.

TALIESIN: I pick up a piece of the local fruit and
smell it.

MATT: How do I describe the smell? It's
reminiscent of discovering old lemon juice that

has grown sticky on a surface, like a dark
mahogany wood surface. Kind of like a bar floor.

We'll go with that.

TALIESIN: No, I don't think I will.

TRAVIS: It belies its true flavor.

TALIESIN: I don't think it does.

MARISHA: This looks like it's rotten from the
landscape. It looks like it's all gone bad.

Has it gone bad?

MATT: Make a nature check.

TRAVIS: Oh, great.

MARISHA: 25.

MATT: No. There are elements that have gone bad on
the ground and have been covered by sand

as winds blow through.

TALIESIN: Naturally awful.

MATT: It's like desert noni. It's extremely
healthy and has a lot of practical medicinal use.

In fact, it's traded specifically for its use in
various herb pouches.

MARISHA: Does it have a name?

MATT: Yes.

LIAM: Like that giant, stinking flower. Grog took
a bite of the giant, stinking flower.

MATT: A vafall fruit.

MARISHA: A what?

TALIESIN: Did it alter Grog's stats on any level?

MATT: No.

TALIESIN: Then it's not that healthy, is it? It's
like agave.

MARISHA: Vafall?

MATT: Listen to Sam. He's got the pronunciation.

LIAM: I will eat you with a lovely chianti and
some vafall.

ALL: Vafall.

ASHLEY: Should we take some, then?

LAURA: Make some medicine?

TALIESIN: You could try to bake with it. Maybe
it's bakeable.

MARISHA: It makes a really good salve. It's good
for sunburns.

LIAM: Or shoving in somebody's bed.

TRAVIS: How do we get back to Whitestone?

TALIESIN: Is there a tree that this fruit was
coming off of?

MATT: Yes.

TALIESIN: I point at the tree.

MATT: The ones on the outskirts of the mountain
range are small, but the deeper into the valleys

and ravines between the large spire-like
mountains, you do find a few that are probably

large enough to utilize through your spell.

MARISHA: Yeah, I can do that.

LAURA: Tary, are you coming back to Whitestone?

SAM: I have to, yes. I have to repair Doty, and
also find some new recruits. I think there are

some in Whitestone, right?

TALIESIN: You're really going through with this?

SAM: Of course. It's my destiny. I met you all to
become an adventurer, and now I'm bringing my

knowledge back to my people. It's like it was
written in a book.

LAURA: A very good book.

TRAVIS: Yeah, you're writing a book!

SAM: I am.

ASHLEY: And not only that, you're going to be the
leader of a band of adventurers.

TRAVIS: Are you a colonel, a general, a private?

SAM: I hadn't thought of that. You know what?
There's no leader of Vox Machina, so maybe there

won't be in the Darrington Brigade. Well, besides
you. You're unofficially--

you're definitely the treasurer.

LIAM: I'm behind her doing this.

TRAVIS: Yeah, rolling eyes.

LAURA: Lionel?

MATT: His mouth is filled with fruit.

(laughter)

LAURA: Is it good? How are you doing?

MATT: "It's getting really heavy. This is really
heavy."

LAURA: Yeah. Are you coming back to Whitestone, as
well? Scanlan, I mean Aes-- is he coming back?

SAM: I suppose we'll need him for now, yes.

LAURA: Okay.

TALIESIN: I still like the idea of perhaps the two
of you working together. You could talk to Scanlan

about it and see if he'd be all right--

(laughter)

TALIESIN: I'm never going to get bored of this.
I'm never going to get bored of this!

LIAM: Scanlan, what do you think?

TRAVIS: That was a fucking awesome
physical reaction.

LIAM: At least in the short term.

SAM: You're suggesting that I, Scanlan Shorthalt,
bequeath my employee Chod to this gentleman here?

You mean me, Taryon Darrington? You mean Chod
could join my brigade?

Well, yes. I guess that's what they're talking
about.

Well, I don't see why not. He's very capable and
strong.

Yes, and I won't have much use for him for a
while, so if you'd like to take him with your

brigade, you can.

Well, I'm not going to say no to a fellow member
of Vox Machina now, am I?

No, you're not.

No, I'm not.

TRAVIS: Yes.

MATT: "I don't see any similarities."

(laughter)

TALIESIN: That's everything I wanted. I'm good.

LAURA: Through the tree, then?

MARISHA: Through the tree.

MATT: All right, so as you finish concentrating on
the outside of one of these large, 15 to

20-foot-tall, leafless, fruit-bearing trees in the
center of the Smoldercrown Forest, the doorway

shifts open, revealing on the opposite side the
dark, sunless night of Whitestone.

MARISHA: I pick a blossom from the tree on the way
out.

LIAM: I pull two of the fruits.

MATT: Okay. You guys arrive. It's early evening.
You can see the windows of nearby homes, shops,

and various structures near the square are
beginning to glow from the interior light of small

lanterns and candles. In the distance, you can see
the perimeter beacons being put along the castle

walls on the exterior of Castle Whitestone. You're
back home.

LAURA: Let's gather our troops.

TALIESIN: Make thy way to the castle.

LAURA: Find out what they've learned.

MATT: All right. At which point, Lionel keeps
asking,

"Can I put him down yet? Can I put him down?"

SAM: Not quite yet.

TALIESIN: We're going to take him to the castle.

SAM: Change arms.

MATT: "Ooh! That helps a lot." You make your way
to the castle.

Doty's delivered to the workshop. Taryon?

SAM: Stays there.

MATT: Okay.

(laughter)

TALIESIN: We'll keep you informed.

SAM: Thank you.

MATT: All right, so you guys now have the run of
the castle. What do you wish to do?

LAURA: We asked Cassandra to gather people to
study the Shadowfell as soon as we did the oracle

arrow last time, so it would probably be smart to
find out what

they've learned before we make our plans.

MATT: Okay. As you approach Cassandra, at this
hour, she currently has a recently steeped,

still-steaming cup of tea resting on the table,
towards the window side, the front window side, of

the general dining hall area of the castle where
you usually eat your supper. She's facing away

from the table and has a thick robe over her and
has the tea and is in the process of reading

through books. Her hair's pulled up tightly, and
some of it's a mess in front of her face. She's

very much in work mode. She's poring through
books, and as soon as you enter, she reaches over

for her cup of tea. "Oh. Hello, everyone." She
gets herself a little more presentable. "I've got

"the assistance of Eskil Ryndarien. Everyone else
seems to be a bit busy at the moment, but Allura

"is doing the best she can research on her end, as
well."

TALIESIN: We're going to need everybody. It's
worse than we could have imagined.

LAURA: And we have far less time than we would
have imagined.

MATT: "How much time do we have?"

TALIESIN: This has to be taken care of
immediately.

LIAM: Things are happening now.

MATT: "Well, you have far better means of
acquiring these people than I do. I can merely

"send missives and requests."

TALIESIN: We're going to send word out. I'm going
to take out my flask and put it on the table. Sit

down for a moment.

MATT: She takes it and adds it to her tea.

LAURA: Is Ryndarien here?

MATT: "He is. He's currently inspecting the
ziggurat again. He's setting his notes up where he

"previously set up research quarters during the
incursion of the Conclave."

LAURA: We need to get everyone away from it.

MARISHA: Where's Allura?

MATT: "She's in Emon. She's still part of the
council there."

TALIESIN: We have to get her here immediately.

LIAM: Is Gilmore still in town?

MATT: "No, he's back in Emon."

LIAM: He left for good?

LAURA: I'm going to run down to the ziggurat and
try to get Eskil Ryndarien away from it and warn

everyone to stay away from it.

MATT: Okay.

TALIESIN: Let's double-check that armor for any
weird influences it may have, to make sure it is what

it seems to be, which is ornamental, with a bit of
magic. Let's make sure that the captain of

whatever guard is on shift down by the ziggurat is
wearing it, and is aware that he's there to

befuddle the enemy.

MATT: Okay. You make your way down there, and you
can see it's still fairly dark in that chamber.

Most of the lights have been snuffed except for a
few torches that are set around the central

platform that was built about mid-height on the
ziggurat, where you guys had the council meeting

with Raishan that one time, and where most of the
research is being done there. Up top, you see a

number of guards, the Pale Guard are assigned to
keep watch. You see Jecht, the manservant of the

Realmseer Eskil there, as well. Currently, you see
Eskil Ryndarien is spreading out his thick scrolls

and books, and they're all across the big central
wooden table, and he has his thick spectacles on,

and he has a number of candles already set up, and
he's deep into getting his space prepped and

acquiring whatever information he'd put away since
the investigation was put on hold.

LAURA: Eskil?

MATT: "Yes? Oh, it has been some time, Lady
Vex'ahlia.

"I've heard you've come up in the world."

LAURA: Oh, yes. I'm a lady now.

MATT: "Wondrous. Yes. What do I have the honor?"

LAURA: Well, I hate to be the bearer of bad news,
but I'm afraid

being down here isn't safe anymore.

MATT: "Right, so you brought me all the way out
here, and now I can't do my work? That's great.

"No, that's par for the course. It's basically most
of my life."

LAURA: Plenty of work up top, away from this orb
of death. It's very dangerous.

MATT: "Oh! You're right. I didn't know that. I've
only spent six months with the thing!"

LAURA: We've discovered it's a gateway, and things
can come through it, and there might be armies

coming through because we just fought somebody on
the other side of another ziggurat.

MATT: "That's preposterous. Siphons only work one
way, my dear. Nothing's coming through there."

LAURA: She changed it. Did you know that siphons
can be changed?

It changed from one color to another.

MATT: "You know this how?"

LAURA: Because I was there to witness it.

MATT: "What, here?"

LAURA: In Ank'harel. And it looks the exact same
as this one.

MATT: He looks you over really intensely. "If what
you believe you saw is indeed another one of these

"siphons, then perhaps we should take a little more
care."

LAURA: I agree.

MATT: "Jecht, please continue. Gather everything.
We're taking this outside."

LAURA: Fabulous. You're so agreeable. I do love
talking to you.

MATT: "Wonderful. Good to know. Goodbye." They
gather up the materials. The Pale Guard escorts

them back into the hallway, and he's now talking
to Jecht off on the side. He goes, "Well, then we

"can go ahead and stage ourselves in the grand
guestroom with the nice big bed. Yes?"

LAURA: The big ornate bed.

MATT: He looks over his shoulder as you say this.
"Oh, you're eavesdropping now, as well.

"That's wondrous."

LAURA: I have wonderful hearing.

MATT: "So I can tell. Yes, the big bed. The one
that helps with my back."

LAURA: Yes, that's terrible. Can you look at this
armor really fast and make sure that it's not

actually cursed or anything?

MATT: "Looks fine to me!" Keeps walking.

LAURA: Was it cursed, or anything, when you looked
at it?

SAM: I don't know.

MATT: Did not appear to be cursed from your glance
at it.

LAURA: Would he have known from the Identify spell
if it was cursed? Great. Well.

MARISHA: Can Keyleth go talk to Percy?

TALIESIN: I'm in Cassandra's room, still.

MARISHA: Keyleth waits for Percy. Hang on. I can
go talk with Cassandra, as well.

MATT: Unless you're having a closed conversation.

TALIESIN: Just ten seconds of it. We'll see how
this goes. Have a bit of that flask.

MATT: She's already poured some into her tea.

TALIESIN: We've found a second ziggurat. We found
a cult that is moving things through it. The cult

was being led by Delilah Briarwood.

MATT: The silence, the stark absence of sound, is
completely sundered by the sound of shattering

porcelainware. The tea that she had recently
barely sipped on is now shattered and spilled

across the ground. She stands there, her hand open
as it slowly curls back. She stares off into the

distance, clenching her fist very tightly.

TALIESIN: She escaped into the ziggurat, so she's
no longer on this plane of existence, but some

form of her, whether it's undead or otherwise,
we're going to need to put it down again.

MATT: "Yes, we do."

TALIESIN: I wanted you to hear it from me. There
will be no running this time.

MATT: "No running."

TALIESIN: Not from me.

MATT: "But you'll take care of her?"

TALIESIN: This is the end of her. I will be there
to see it.

MATT: "She's escaped death once already. Who knows
how many times she has before.

"You have to end it."

TALIESIN: We will discover what she did.

MATT: "Don't destroy her body. Destroy everything
she is."

TALIESIN: If we can't kill her, we will entrap her
forever.

MATT: "Shatter the soul. Whatever it takes. End
her, brother."

TALIESIN: I know. I shall.

MATT: She takes the flask.

TALIESIN: I wanted you to hear it from me so you
could compose yourself when

other people begin to tell you.

MATT: "I need a moment alone, please."

TALIESIN: They're going to need us to be the
strongest. I have faith in you. I'll leave you to

it. I'm so sorry.

MATT: "I'm going to be sick."

TALIESIN: Yes. I'm going to leave her to her room
and shut the door.

MATT: You close the door and there in the hallway,
waiting opposite the door, is Keyleth.

TALIESIN: Hi.

MARISHA: How did that go?

TALIESIN: Honestly, better than I expected.

MARISHA: Yeah.

MATT: At which point, you hear behind the door, a
muffled (retching).

TALIESIN: More sick and less things breaking. I'd
rather her be sick than angry.

MARISHA: You think? I hate being sick. Anger at
least drives you towards something.

TALIESIN: It does not drive de Rolos towards
anything good.

MARISHA: Fair point. I have a crazy thought, and I
needed to run by you. Sorry, didn't mean to hit

you. Okay. I'm excited. All right. We watched the
orb change. She changed the magic in the orb,

right? We just spent a year making magical orbs
that change in some way, that are all linked to

our city. Clearly, not as powerful as what this
is.

TALIESIN: No, not at all.

MARISHA: But what if-- I don't know. What if she
corrupted something that was already there that

wasn't supposed to be corrupted? What if she can
corrupt more things, like our crisis orbs? I had

this immediate fear that what if I built something
that was supposed to help--

TALIESIN: I'm so glad you thought of me when this
came up.

MARISHA: Well, you helped me build it. Am I crazy
for thinking it? Am I totally off base?

TALIESIN: I think we're going to be walking a very
fine line of paranoia for the next

however long.

MARISHA: Maybe there's something in our own
technology, in our own magic, that can help inform

us. I don't know.

TALIESIN: When they get here, we're going to look
at everything.

MARISHA: All right. We'll sleep on it.

TALIESIN: I think we're going to be fine, but you
did give me some ideas that

I'm going to think about.

MARISHA: And those symbols. The necklaces. Druids,
we use similar things

when we plane shift to other worlds.

TALIESIN: I'm going to take one to the library and
inspect it. I'm going to also see what any of our

other arcanists think of it. If it's from a cult
that anybody has heard of before.

MARISHA: I think I can plane shift us there with
it if we don't want to go through the orb.

TALIESIN: Really?

MARISHA: I think. It seems like very similar
technology. Magic.

TALIESIN: I'm rubbing off on you.

MARISHA: Yeah. I don't know. Sleep on it. I'm
going to go think.

TALIESIN: I have no idea what just happened. Yeah.
I'm going to double-check the orb room just for a

moment, for my own paranoia.

MARISHA: The crisis orb room? Actually, I'll go
with him.

TALIESIN: Just to look, and then I'm going to
start researching that symbol. I'm going to go to

the library and I'm showing the council
everything.

MATT: Okay. You speak with the rest of the
standing chamber. You begin to do your research.

Make a history check.

MARISHA: Oh, that's good! Take it.

TALIESIN: 22.

MATT: 22. You've read through most of the books
here, between you and JB, who's spent some time

also reading quite a bit. There's no mention of
the symbol itself, and there's very little

information on the Whispered One, on Vecna. It's
interesting: there's almost a gap in history.

There are subtle mentions of this figure, this
once-powerful mage that had begun to look into the

secrets of life, prolonging it. The fabric of
reality. And then it's just missing from history.

And you recall... all the books that would cover
that time period, you remember hearing stories

from Allura regarding the Whispered One,
originally. There's no mention.

TALIESIN: Is it a physical omission from the
books, or is it even that the books that would

cover it are not here? Books that should cover it
that don't?

MATT: Books that you feel like should cover it.
Historical recalling of Wildmount, which if you

recall, based on some of Allura's discussion on
the Whispered One's previous existence as a

mortal, largely, Vecna's work was done over on the
Wildmount side of Exandria.

TALIESIN: And there's no--

MARISHA: Bitch! Sorry. Go on.

TALIESIN: I don't know what's happening over
here.

MATT: I don't, either.

TALIESIN: There's nothing that's simple. Like, the
more I'm looking, I'm looking for

mention of the symbols--

MATT: No.

TALIESIN: Keyleth, you know damn well where I am
right now, I'm sitting in the library reading

books, so if you have something to say. Oh, wow,
you're going way back.

MARISHA: I'm looking. I'll meet you in the
library.

SAM: How to Play Pathfinder.

(laughter)

TALIESIN: Is that Hercules Mulligan?

MARISHA: This is a tiny Hercules Mulligan. I was
looking for him!

He's been in here the whole time.

LIAM: Delilah gets knocked out, she gets the fuck
back up again!

TALIESIN: Four set of corsets.

MATT: He's a barbarian, I think it is. We have to
work out the 5e classes for the Hamilton

characters. Get on it, Critters.

TALIESIN: I'll let everyone know where I am, too.
I'm in the library reading if anybody needs me.

MATT: Anyone else wishing to accomplish anything
else?

TRAVIS: I'm in the kitchen. I want to see if they
can make a salad with meat in it.

TALIESIN: If they figure out how, bring some up to
the library.

TRAVIS: Okay, I'm not very up to--

TALIESIN: Deposit it up.

MATT: Grand Poobah, if this is indeed your
request, they will do their very best to do so.

Within an hour or so, you are presented with a
bowl of various textures of shredded, cured, and

prepared meats to loosely resemble a salad, I
guess.

TALIESIN: A malad!

MATT: It's like a giant poke bowl.

SAM: It's not a salad with meat on it, it's a
salad made of meat?

LIAM: Thin slices.

TRAVIS: This is far greater than anything I could
have hoped for.

TALIESIN: Previously, on Hannibal.

TRAVIS: Did you invent this just now?

MATT: You look at the wait staff and they,
"Actually, sir, it was Chef Varon." You look over

and you see this one, and you've seen a couple of
the chefs here, you haven't interfaced with them

too much. You're not a social figure necessarily,
more of a demanding figure when it comes to the

food and the meal. But you see this gentleman with
this thin John Waters pencil mustache, this

thinning hair that's short, but slick, with a bit
of pattern baldness going on. He's a bit thick

around the waist and he's sitting there with a
big, beaming grin of pride.

TRAVIS: Chef, this is going to put you on the map.
We need to name it.

MATT: "Oh, well, Grand Poobah, I image that would
be your honor to give. I am but humbled to present

"you with such a meal, so the choice is yours."

TRAVIS: What fine tender meats are in this dish?

MATT: "Oh, well, we've got quite a variety. I
wanted to provide an extravagant walk through the

"various creatures that we prepare here in
Whitestone. Would you like me to continue?"

TRAVIS: Please, yes! I'm talking to myself.

MATT: "We have two-week salted goat meat. On top
of that we have hickory-kept long angle-smoked

"fish guts mixed in there with a wondrous mix of
minced steaks, we've spared no possible expense on

"the various pieces of the cow. We've, from that
point forward, presented a sprinkling of pork

"belly that's been ground up and salt-cured as well
over the period of about two months usually kept

"to our various steam meals, but I thought this was
a special occasion."

TRAVIS: I'm just free-dripping saliva in and on
the plate.

MATT: "So, it has a very sedimentary layers of the
planet-type feel to it where each reveal occurs

"it's a whole different genus of animal. You're
eating nature in a bowl!"

TRAVIS: I mean, did you even, like, salt it or
nothing? It's just all these beautiful animals in

my own private ark of a bowl?

MATT: "They came salted."

TRAVIS: Well, because it's got goat, fish, beef,
and pork in it I'm going to call it the GoFiBePo.

MATT: "GoFiBePo it is."

TRAVIS: But, like, you seem to have an accent, so
let's put a little flair on it when you say it.

The bowl of GoFiBePo.

MATT: "GoFiBePo."

TRAVIS: I like it.

MATT: "Of course, Grand Poobah."

TRAVIS: And I must decree there will be no
utensils used when you dine of this sublime dish.

MATT: He begins writing these things down. "All
right, all right. You would need approval from

"Lady Cassandra, of course, to put this in the
familial--"

TRAVIS: Approval?

MATT: "Well, if you were to make this the official
meal of Whitestone, that is entirely within--"

TRAVIS: This just gets better and better. Submit
whatever paperwork is necessary.

See that it's done.

(laughter)

MATT: "You heard him, folks! Grand Poobah has
spoken."

TRAVIS: GoFiBePo.

MATT: GoFiBePo.

TRAVIS: Even better. And I'll just start
hand-smashing into my face this

delicious salted meat collection.

LAURA: I'm hungry now.

MATT: Yeah. Oh, it is delightful. It is
delicious.

TRAVIS: You should not be able to make up food
that delicious just on the fly like that. I

literally felt like I was at a fucking restaurant.
That was absurd.

LAURA: I want to eat it!

TALIESIN: As I was saying 'Grand Poobah', I knew
it was going to bite me in the ass.

I don't know how.

TRAVIS: Meat salad. You're welcome.

TALIESIN: It actually sounds really good. Cured
goat meat.

MATT: And it's currently being submitted to the
senate of Whitestone for approval

to become the official dish.

TRAVIS: Yeah! After every battle, we'll get all
the protein we need and we'll just fart our happy

asses off, all night long.

LIAM: It's all shabu-shabu from here on out.

MATT: Yeah. With a constitution check it might
improve your speed. All right. So. What else do

you wish to do, as it is now getting close to the
midnight hour here at Whitestone?

ASHLEY: I've been an extra set of eyes in the
library.

MARISHA: Yeah, and I call Vex there as well.

LAURA: Be there in just a moment, dear. I just
want to find Vax. Can I find Vax?

LIAM: You can certainly try.

LAURA: I'm going to go look-- I'll look in his
room and then I'll look in the temple to the Raven

Queen that we have.

LIAM: I'm in my room.

LAURA: Hey!

LIAM: Kiki, is that-- Oh.

LAURA: Oh. Well. No. Hi. That's gross.

LIAM: Is it, though? Is it?

LAURA: Is it? Hey. One quick thing that I was
thinking about, and I know that you keep bringing

it up and I keep dodging this, right?

LIAM: Right.

LAURA: But-- So, when I was researching the Raven
Queen--

LIAM: Yes.

LAURA: -- she hates undead.

LIAM: That's kind of her thing, yeah.

LAURA: So the fact that Delilah Briarwood is back
again and the person that we're going after, it

seems perfect.

LIAM: Almost like fate, isn't it?

LAURA: Hey.

LIAM: Hey.

LAURA: Do you think your queen lady is going to
chime in there and help us out? Maybe end this

cycle of whatever the fuck it is she's doing.

LIAM: She will be there.

LAURA: In the Shadowfell?

LIAM: She will be with us when we reach the end.

LAURA: That's so cryptic.

LIAM: Well, it is religion.

LAURA: Right.

LIAM: Right.

LAURA: Okay.

LIAM: I mean, like Pike has always said, I don't
have all the answers at all.

LAURA: No. I mean, do you talk to her, though?
Because, you know, Pike talks to Sarenrae.

LIAM: I do.

LAURA: Right! So have you asked her if she's going
to help us kill Delilah Briarwood?

LIAM: You know, she's not very big on specifics.
It's more of a vibe kind of thing.

LAURA: Okay.

LIAM: But the vibe I get, I'm not going to call it
good. This is it. This is what you and I have been

doing our homework for.

LAURA: All right.

LIAM: And it's not going to slow down, it's only
going to speed up.

LAURA: Well.

LIAM: I don't think I'm going back to Zephra
anytime soon.

LAURA: Not necessarily. Don't talk like that. I'm
serious. You have to keep a positive outlook.

Otherwise you're doomed.

LIAM: This is the best year of my life. I'm very
happy.

LAURA: That's good.

LIAM: Life is good.

LAURA: Life is good.

LIAM: We're going to ensure that it stays that
way.

LAURA: Yeah. All right.

LIAM: Sorry I didn't have more for you.

LAURA: No no no! It's about what I expected.

LIAM: Hmm. If you see my druid, would you send her
to bed?

LAURA: Yes.

LIAM: Thank you.

LAURA: Good night.

LIAM: Good night.

LAURA: And I go to the library.

MATT: Okay.

TRAVIS: Boring.

MATT: Now, Percival, Keyleth. Pike, I believe
you're helping out in the library as well?

TALIESIN: We're literally reading through old
notes right now.

MARISHA: A fuckton of old notes.

MATT: Well, Vex arrives to meet up with you guys
in the library of Whitestone. Whatever you're

doing, Scanlan, I don't know.

MARISHA: Vex.

LAURA: What?

MARISHA: Okay. Oh my gosh. Oh. Okay. Oh, praise
Sarenrae, there's so much going on. Okay. Remember

how Whitestone used to be all dead and awful? Very
similar to how the other Ziggurat was dead?

TALIESIN: Yes, of course.

MARISHA: And then they called the ziggurat the
seat of Pelor, right? So what if it was already

there? What if she's taking doorways and
dimensions and corrupting them

and bastardizing them and--

LAURA: If she's done that, if she did that to the
Sun Tree, how old is Delilah Briarwood?

TALIESIN: Well, we don't--

MATT: The Sun Tree has been around since before--

TALIESIN: The Sun Tree was here before the castle
was here, but-- And things have always happened

here. The city has a history of strange
occurrences. I'm inclined to believe there was

something-- Well, there was obviously something
beneath the castle before she got here, or else

she wouldn't have come here to begin with.

LAURA: It was a temple to Ioun.

MATT: The history, you know, is back in the Age of
Arcanum, this valley housed a temple to Ioun,

which was corrupted, and in the Calamity, the
battle between the gods and mortals that changed

the epoch, the Knowing Mistress suffered a
grievous wound from Tharizdun, the Chained

Oblivion. And in that battle, Pelor, the Dawn
Father, delivered enough of a blow to the Chained

Oblivion to defeat it and aid in locking it away.
With the temple still lost beneath this valley,

that was when the Sun Tree seed was planted by
Pelor to be guardian over this space.

MARISHA: What was he locking away?

MATT: A god called the Chained Oblivion.

MARISHA: The Chain Oblivion?

MATT: The Chained Oblivion. Tharizdun. Yeah. A mad
god of chaos and destruction.

LIAM: Totally awesome metal band.

TRAVIS: Yeah, great name.

MARISHA: Okay, well, that's a big deal.

TALIESIN: And, I mean, I think it's safe to assume
that that's what's down there and that's what they

were looking for when they came here in the first
place.

LAURA: Right.

MARISHA: And Delilah came from Wildmount?

TALIESIN: Yes. She was also, I mean--

MARISHA: You did a bunch of research on Vecna. He
used to be a man, right?

TALIESIN AND LAURA: Yes.

LAURA: He wanted to become the Prince of the
Undead, right? Am I saying that right? No no no.

MATT: From what you've come to understand and the
research you've done since the name has come up--

TALIESIN: I'm pulling out my notes.

LIAM: We spent a year reading books.

MATT: Right. Now mind you, the information is
still very hard to find.

LAURA: Because he's the god of secrets?

MATT: He's not a god. Wants to be, or at least
wants to, and there is some obsession with the

ascension of a mortal to a beyond-mortal state.
Which has only been achieved by one being before.

MARISHA: I mean, it sounds a lot like what Delilah
is going for.

LAURA: What if she is Vecna?

MARISHA: What if she is Vecna?

TALIESIN: Well, or she wants to become the next
Vecna.

MARISHA: Yeah. Dread Pirate Roberts of the Vecna.
She came from Wildmount, where Vecna originated.

She came here for research.

LAURA: She's just finishing what he started.

MARISHA: Maybe she's just finishing what he
started. And wasn't she doing a bunch of research

for runes and tomes? Do we have the research that
the Briarwoods--

Didn't we seize a bunch of their research?

TALIESIN: We got some of it, but they burned a
lot.

MATT: You got some of it and a lot of it dealt
with ley energies. There are certain lines that

stretch across, invisible lines that stretch
across Exandria, where the magical powers that

hold together the planes and protect it through
the Divine Gate and other elements--

MARISHA: Do any of those ley lines go through
where we were in Marquet?

MATT: You don't know that. But you do know that
Whitestone resides right beneath a nexus. These

ley lines were shifted during the Calamity. And
now one of these nexuses is right over Whitestone,

which is why this location was chosen for the
ritual that the Briarwoods were assembling.

MARISHA: I wonder if each ziggurat is over a
nexus.

TALIESIN: It could be. We know that she's not 
ancient, because we have a bit of a paper

trail. We do know that she was ruling in Wildmount
for a while. We do know that she studied at the

Alabaster Lyceum briefly. And there's some
paperwork for that.

MATT: In looking up the background history, you
would know that King Bertrand Dwendal of the

Dwendalian Empire was given information in regards
to the Briarwoods, who were essentially accused of

forbidden necromancy. And were to be arrested and
put on trial, and that's when they fled westward

towards Tal'Dorei and then encountered your
family.

TALIESIN: Yeah.

LAURA: So they got run out of Wildmount?

MATT: Seemingly.

TALIESIN: From what we understand and again,
there's not much that survived that. They tend to

cover their tracks.

MARISHA: They were also trying to build that whole
bridge situation? Remember the bridge?

That was weird.

TALIESIN: They wanted to move. Well--

MARISHA: They wanted to move an army. Right?

MATT: The bridge, from what you can tell, there
was no way, plans or means of even building a

bridge. And a bridge has been attempted in the
past over the Shearing Channel and it's just too--

The cliffs are too steep and too windy and the
water beneath is too strong. Which is why the

prospect to the previous sovereign was such a
possible good thing to make a deal with the

Briarwoods at the time. But there are no plans.
Nothing in their notes spoke of actually making a

bridge. It was more a means to get into the graces
of the royal family.

TALIESIN: And probably collect assets as well.

MARISHA: Okay. If you were run out of somewhere--

TALIESIN: Which I have been.

MARISHA: Which you have been. After a lot of
research--

TALIESIN: Which I've done.

MARISHA: -- and you were trying to do something--

TALIESIN: Which I do.

MARISHA: -- what would be your second place of
choosing to go?

TALIESIN: Anywhere that they serve some sort of
meat salad, I imagine.

(laughter)

MARISHA: I'm just saying, if you're run out of one
place for doing something, I imagine--

TALIESIN: You're thinking maybe they have another
portal in Wildmount.

MARISHA: Yes, I do.

TALIESIN: Yes.

LAURA: Another ziggurat?

TALIESIN: Could be several of them.

MARISHA: If they are run out of one place for
something, my first thing would be try to find the

next place to keep it going.

LAURA: Right. And then she got run out of here, so
she went to Ank'harel.

MARISHA: Correct. What if she's already been
killed in Wildmount? So many theories, you guys.

So many theories! It's kind of exciting.

TALIESIN: Let's not get overly speculative here.

TRAVIS: Are ziggurats always pyramids?

LIAM: That's what a ziggurat is. It's like an
Aztec bip-bip-bip.

MARISHA: We know the Briarwoods also did dealings
with the Stormwinds in Wildmount.

LAURA: What other pyramids have we seen, though?
Have we seen any other--

TRAVIS: The thing we fought the beholder in.

LAURA: The mindflayer place. That was a ziggurat.

MARISHA: Son of a bitch!

LAURA: Under Kraghammer! Oh my god! Is there a
ziggurat in Kraghammer?

LIAM: Hell yeah there is a ziggurat. Yeah, it was
a ziggurat.

MATT: You've seen a few, actually.

LIAM: I'm speaking in my voice because I'm not
there, but he said-- Yeah, oh, he's poker-facing

it. We said ziggurat many times when we were down
there.

MARISHA: Did we see a pyramid when we were in
Wildmount? When we went there?

TALIESIN: We were barely there, though.

LAURA: But it would've been underground. I mean,
who knows where the fuck it was? Wait, wait, wait!

What about the temple where we saw the other
sphinx? Was that another ziggurat there?

MARISHA: And that was up in Vasselheim! Thank you.

LAURA: Ah! Is there a ziggurat--

MARISHA: There's a ziggurat on every continent!
(singing) Every continent has a ziggurat.

LAURA: They can come out everywhere.

TRAVIS: So collapsing the tunnels didn't really do
that much.

TALIESIN: No, because it shut one potential vein
of a dozen.

MARISHA: It's these damn ley lines. I knew there's
been something up with these ley lines and I tried

to talk to the Sun Tree about it and he didn't
know.

LAURA: Well, he's a tree.

MARISHA: He's a tree.

TALIESIN: Be nice to the Sun Tree.

MARISHA: No, he's very cool.

TRAVIS: So all the bodies that were hanging under
Whitestone, right, they were all stapled to the

walls? Was that the army? Was she trying to fill
them with necromantic energy?

TALIESIN: Oh my god, they would've come alive if
there had been a giant blast of necrotic energy.

TRAVIS: Yeah. The bodies weren't feeding the
thing. She was trying to imbue them with--

TALIESIN: She was preparing to create an army.

LIAM: Yeah. And they were missing arms?

LAURA: We didn't look in the ziggurat in
Ank'harel. There could've been bodies there, too.

TALIESIN: I don't think they had gotten that far
yet.

MARISHA: And one of the things I have written
down.

TRAVIS: Why were they throwing magical things into
it, though? It was magical items into--

TALIESIN: Offerings? Because they would've become
magical once they got to the other side of the

portal. I mean, they would've been great gifts.

LIAM: What do you think, Taryon Darrington? Or
Scanlan.

MATT: Tary is fixing Doty.

SAM: I'm just giving him CPR.

(laughter)

SAM: You've never given up on anything in your
life. Now live!

(laughter)

LIAM: Ed Harris in The Abyss. You've never given
up a day in your life, you bitch.

ASHLEY: Scanlan?

SAM: I'm in my room, praying.

LAURA: You're not here?

MARISHA: In your room, praying?

LAURA: Praying to Sarenrae?

SAM: Mm-hm. Or Logic.

(laughter)

TALIESIN: Logic is a fickle god.

MARISHA: Yeah. Desmond (mumbles). Briarwood's
carriage driver.

Lady Briarwood is immune to daylight.

TALIESIN: It's like watching your game in
fast-forward.

MARISHA: Briarwoods have an army. I have it in
giant, big letters,

but I don't know what that means.

LAURA: Obviously, it would take a very long time
to go to every ziggurat that we've seen and see if

there's an army inside of it. If they've been
preparing things there over this past year that we

haven't been doing anything!

TRAVIS: We don't know that any of this is right.
We should just go through.

LAURA: We should go to the Shadowfell and fucking
end this before

she sets out her armies everywhere.

TRAVIS: We did let her regroup a little bit, but
we didn't know what we were doing.

TALIESIN: There was nothing we could have done.

TRAVIS: Do you want to mess with the stones? Try
and duplicate them? We have seven, right?

LAURA: We have seven. We could go through.

TALIESIN: Seven of us could go through.

SAM: (whispering) We're only seven people.

LAURA: There's only seven of us.

TALIESIN: There's eight. One of us would have to
stay behind.

SAM: Who's the eighth? Count the table, friend.

TRAVIS: Tary's staying.

TALIESIN: Tary's the eighth. Are we going to go
through with Tary?

I'm being such an asshole right now.

MATT: You're terrible.

MARISHA: I could also maybe Plane Shift us there
with one of these?

TRAVIS: If we take damage going through the portal
with the stone, does that mean we might take

damage if you Plane Shift us there?

LAURA: Who knows? It's the Shadowfell.

TALIESIN: I say we speak with Allura, and if this
looks--

LAURA: We need to talk to Eskil Ryndarien and see
what he knows about the Shadowfell, right? He's

been studying the Shadowfell, too.

MATT: Since he arrived, yeah.

TALIESIN: I think the plan is we take the fight to
them.

LAURA and TRAVIS: Yeah.

MARISHA: Is it worth going back to any of the
other ziggurats, or no?

LAURA: I don't think so, at this point.

TALIESIN: I think that it's not time to check the
doors. It's time to go out and chase the monsters.

If we take care of them, it doesn't matter how
many ziggurats there are.

TRAVIS: Yes.

LAURA: We just have to--

TALIESIN: Hope we don't miss one. Travel the
world.

LAURA: Hey, at least Vecna's not a god. Bonus
there.

MARISHA: That's true.

TALIESIN: Let's have an evening, and then
tomorrow, we'll--

TRAVIS: Tally-ho?

TALIESIN: Collect what we've learned, and if we're
prepared, jump into a sphere of death.

LAURA: We can't waste time.

MARISHA: If we jump through the sphere of death,
they might be expecting us on the other side of

the sphere of death. If we Plane Shift, we might
be able to come up with a

flanky, secret, other tactic.

TALIESIN: If you can figure out a way to use one
of these to create a Plane Shift that you'll feel

comfortable with, then I'm all right with that.

MARISHA: I'll talk it over with other magic-users,
first.

TRAVIS: Which ones?

MARISHA: I don't know. I'll find one.

LIAM: We can go visit one of them. I'm not there.

MATT: You're not there.

TRAVIS: Make the call.

MARISHA: Eskil knows stuff like that.

TALIESIN: Let's all get some sleep, and in the
morning, we're going to take care of this. One way

or the other, we'll take this fight to them.

LAURA: You'll talk to Eskil, because I hate that
motherfucker.

TALIESIN: He likes you. Well, he doesn't dislike
you any more than he dislikes anybody else.

MARISHA: He dislikes you even less. He just hates
everyone.

TALIESIN: He's terrible, isn't he?

LAURA: Crotchety old fuck.

MATT: All right, so you're all going to go in for
the evening,

and we'll come back to this in the morning.

LIAM: Wait. One second.

MATT: Sorry, go ahead.

LIAM: Did you guys--

MARISHA: Oh my gosh. We figured out so much
stuff.

LIAM: Give me the download.

MARISHA: Delilah might be Vecna, and all this,
there are ziggurats everywhere, and we're so dumb

because we've probably seen several ziggurats, and
they're all on these massive ley lines, and I give

him a whole dialogue.

MATT: Okay.

LIAM: Holy moly. Do you need to get word back
home? Because I don't think we're going home.

MARISHA: What do you mean?

LIAM: I mean, the dreams I've been having all year
and telling you about. They felt like this. This

is the moment.

MARISHA: You think if we go in, we're never coming
back?

LIAM: I'm not saying that.

MARISHA: You think if we go in, you're never
coming back?

LIAM: Well, I didn't say that, either. We were
going to go back in a day or two, and I don't

think that's happening. Do you think everyone at
home, they're good?

MARISHA: I'll have someone send a message.

LIAM: Okay.

MARISHA: You can't resign to this. You can't give
up on me.

LIAM: Kiki, I'm not giving up. I will never give
up on you.

MARISHA: I can see it in your eyes. You think this
is it.

LIAM: I'm so glad that we're together for this,
whatever it is. And no, I'm not resigned. I would

love to see you off to a very long life in Zephra.
No, with you. With you, until I'm not with you.

Your dad's probably worrying. I worry about him
worrying about you, that's all.

MARISHA: Really? Everything going on right now,
and you're worried about my dad? Typical

boyfriend, I guess. That's fair.

LIAM: You know, I am so anxious right now, and the
only thing that is going to distract me is all

your fucking freckles, so come to bed, all right?
Come on.

MARISHA: Promise me you'll come back with me, no
matter what.

LIAM: I promise.

MARISHA: Even if it doesn't happen, just promise.

LIAM: Well, that's an easy promise to make. I
promise.

MARISHA: I just need you to believe it.

LIAM: I believe. Get the fuck in this bed.

MARISHA: Sure.

MATT: Okay, so you all find your evening's rest,
preparing for the next morning in whatever means

you wish to prepare for. We're going to take a
break. We'll be back here in a few minutes to pick

up this next length of the journey and see where
it takes us. We're giving away on the break a

Purpleheart dice box from Wyrmwood.

LIAM: That's the most beautiful one.

LAURA and ASHLEY: The Scanlan wood!

MATT: Get that Scanlan wood!

LIAM: I mean, the Gabon ebony is really nice, but
the Purpleheart--

SAM: Did you say gay-bone?

LIAM: It's the Gabon. Gabon?

MATT: Yes, so for that contest you need to come
over to Twitch chat, and I've actually forgotten

what word we chose for today.

SAM: Scorsese.

MATT: (laughs) What was the word? Thank you.
Whisper. The word is whisper. So go ahead and when

prompted, enter "whisper" into the chat room to
enter, and we'll come back after the break to

announce who the lucky winner is. We'll see you
guys in a few minutes.

(cheering)

[break]

MATT: Hello, everyone, and welcome back to
Critical Role. Oh god, they're closer now. I'm

starting to rethink this scenario.

LIAM: Life comes at you fast, Matt.

MATT: That it does, apparently. Anyway, welcome
back.

LAURA: I think that was the best one I've ever
heard, though, Ashley.

That was a really good one.

MATT: You may fight one later.

(laughter)

MATT: So as you guys rested for the evening and
found yourself the following morning, presenting

the possibility of making your way into the
Shadowfell and what waits for you there. You come

to consciousness, you have your morning meal, you
begin to plot and plan. What do you wish to do?

MARISHA: Go find Eskil.

LAURA: Go find Eskil. Somebody else is going to go
find out from him, right?

MATT: He's actually eating out in the garden. He
has one of the little tables set out there. It's a

nice morning out in Whitestone right now. It's
chilly, but the clouds have broken a bit. You can

see some blue skies; a little bit of sun's
breaking through. He's out there with Jecht, his

associate, who's in the process of cutting his
food for him while Eskil's sitting there, still

looking through books and occasionally reaching
over and plucking things from his plate to eat. As

you approach him, he doesn't even look up. He
goes, "Yes? What do you require?"

MARISHA: Good morning.

MATT: "Good morning to you, as well, I suppose."

MARISHA: Lovely weather today, isn't it?

MATT: "It is weather, yes."

MARISHA: So! How's the research on the Shadowfell
going?

MATT: "It's done. I've researched it. I don't know
what you require."

MARISHA: All of it. All of the research?

MATT: "As much as is in the tomes I have at my
disposal, yes."

MARISHA: Anything we should know? Anything
important? Fill us in a little bit? Spark Notes?

MATT: "It's a plane of negative energy, and
elements of it are used to funnel the transition

"of souls from life to death or back. A number of
it is scourged by undeath and those that skirt

"that process. It exists as a mirror plane, much
like the Feywild. There are elements that resemble

"Exandria, but twisted, shifted. It is a very
barren, very broken, dust-filled, dark-- not a

"very pleasant place, really."

LIAM: And chock-full of undead, you said?

MATT: "Elements of it, yes."

MARISHA: Used to transport souls? Give me a
second.

LIAM: Sorry, she carries this book around. She's
very precise with her notes.

MATT: "Good. You should be. Precision is
recommended."

MARISHA: Okay. I'm going to show him the necklace
that we found. This seems to have a slight magical

attunement to the Shadowfell. Do you think I could
use this as a plane-shifting device?

MATT: "It would need some alteration. It's
possible. Very careful alteration. You need it to

"be a very narrow fork in order to properly channel
the spell, and this does not quite match the

"proper division of magical energies. It could be
physically altered to do so, but too much and you

"ruin the minor enchantment and attunement."

MARISHA: All right. That's very good to know.

LIAM: But doable?

MARISHA: With how much time?

MATT: "I don't know. I'm no metalworker. I imagine
not too much."

MARISHA: Okay. Are you able to send messages? You
have Sending, yeah?

MATT: He leans back, looking slightly offended. "I
have means to communicate with individuals of

"importance, yes."

MARISHA: Just wondering if you could tell my dad
that I might be gone for a long time?

MATT: "I have absolutely no interest in any of
what you just said."

MARISHA: I'd really owe you one, Eskil. Just a
quick message?

MATT: "I'm not a messenger service for
individuals' parental units."

LIAM: Well, we are potentially going to throw
ourselves at the greatest evil that this world has

ever known, in the hopes that the entire world can
survive, so that's a big favor. That's a big gimme

for you. So maybe in exchange for that, you could
send a little message.

MARISHA: Just to my dad to let him know that I
might die attempting to--

MATT: "Who's your father?"

MARISHA: Korren of the Ashari, who is one of the
headmasters.

MATT: "Right, of the wind people. Whatever. Right,
okay."

LIAM: Who is your daddy, and what does he do?

(laughter)

MATT: He thinks for a second. Begins to run his
finger in the air, and you watch as there's a

faint scrolling of soft bluish-white light. (poof)
Turns to smoke and vanishes. "All right, he knows

"you're going to be off doing stuff in the
Shadowfell and probably won't be back for a while."

MARISHA: Thank you.

MATT: "You're welcome."

MARISHA: Can we maybe borrow your research notes
on the Shadowfell? Is that a thing? No? (sighs)

MATT: (thud)

MARISHA: Thank you.

LIAM: Seriously, thank you.

MARISHA: Thank you.

MATT: "You're welcome. I will call into this favor
later."

MARISHA: Sure. You know where to find us. What?

LIAM: Nothing.

MARISHA: All right. Enjoy your tea and biscuits.

MATT: "I will."

MARISHA: Thanks, Eskil.

LIAM: Are they sweet or savory?

MATT: "They're delicious."

LIAM: I grab one.

MATT: (frustrated noise)

LAURA: While that was going on, is that caravan
still in town that was coming through? We've only

been gone a day.

MATT: It's still in town.

LAURA: Are there any fancy fucking chalices that I
could fucking buy for a Heroes' Feast?

MATT: (laughs)

LIAM: Whitestone is made of fancy chalices, isn't
it, Percy?

TALIESIN: We have a chalice room.

MATT: I will say, if you're spending a good
portion of the morning going around, asking. Being

your charismatic self and well-versed in gathering
information in a marketplace, you do find two

chalices for sale that would match the
specifications required to cast a Heroes' Feast.

TALIESIN: Hey. Do you want to buy a chalice?

LAURA: Fabulous!

MATT: "The finest chalices this side of Wildemount.
It's crazy."

TALIESIN: Sipping cups. What do you need?

LIAM: One of them is super gauche.

MATT: "This one has an anti-dribble chinnage. For
all those nights you're drinking too hard and you

"don't want to spill all over your front pouch?"

LAURA: Do you have a sippy cup lid, though?

MATT: "That will cost you extra."

LAURA: How much?

MATT: "Five gold, for the sippy cup."

SAM: Is this fancy enough for a Heroes' Feast?

LAURA: How much for the cup?

MATT: "Each cup, because these traveled quite a
bit. They'll bring you about 1,200 gold pieces."

LAURA: 1,200 gold pieces.

MARISHA: Apiece, or total?

MATT: "Apiece."

LIAM: Why is the school crossing guard from my
hometown in New Jersey in Whitestone right now?

MATT: "Hey, you think I haven't been busy after
you left school?"

(laughter)

LIAM: Everybody in Weehawken is like, what
happened to Larry?

MATT: "Found a new occupation: chalice
collector."

TALIESIN: What am I going to do with all these
chalices?

MATT: "Actually..."

LAURA: Well, Larry. You know that these chalices
are probably going to be used to save the world.

MATT: "That sounds like a perfect reason to buy
them."

LAURA: It does, doesn't it? And just think how
wonderful it will be when you can tell everyone

that you sell to that you sold the things that
saved the world to Vox Machina.

MATT: Make a persuasion check.

LAURA: It wasn't a one. Persuasion, 19.

MATT: "Vox Machina, you say? You know these
folks?"

LAURA: Lady Vex'ahlia, at your service.

MATT: His eye widens on one side. "Well, I've not
really seen or know much about you folks, but I've

"heard tales of you."

LAURA: I turn and show him the scales from the
Chroma Conclave.

MATT: "That real dragon? No shit. Well, I mean,
tell you what." He pulls out a piece of paper and

starts scrawling on it. He pulls out his inkwell
and starts dipping it. "If you would do the honor

"of signing this official document that says that
these were sold to none other than Lady Vex'ahlia

"of Vox Machina that I can use as proof of this
transaction for my own promotional purposes, I'll

"be happy to give you both of these--"

LAURA: This is my favorite shop on the Citadel.

TALIESIN: This is the equivalent of the head shot
on the wall.

MATT: Yeah, basically. "I will happily give you
both of these at a discount of 1,000 gold pieces apiece."

LAURA: I like your style. Can I insight and make
sure this isn't some sort of

enchanted piece of fucking--

MATT: Sure, go for it.

LAURA: What would I add to that?

MATT: Your insight.

LAURA: Okay, see if he's full of shit. 14?

MATT: 14? Hard to read.

(laughter)

LAURA: You know what? Fuck it. We're probably
going to die, anyway.

MATT: "A pleasure doing business with you,
milady." Hands you the two chalices. They're

beautiful. One's more reddish gem-encrusted. The
other has a platinum spiral that runs around the

base of it. They're both beautiful and intricate.

LAURA: And you just threw the sippy cup lid as a
little--

MATT: "Yeah, okay."

TALIESIN: For the chalice on the go.

LIAM: Now stay in school, Liam. Stay in school.

MATT: "Wait, that guy looks familiar." I forgot to
also say we have a winner, by the way. Kiajade.

Congratulations. I should have mentioned that. I
got caught up in the story. Thank god that's never

happened before. But congratulations. All right.
You've acquired your chalices. What other business

do you guys want to take care of?

TALIESIN: I'm going to make sure I have enough
powder and shot for a bit of a jaunt, so I'm going

into the stores of what we make here and
reloading. I'm also going to try and make some

silver shot. I've never tried it before.

MATT: Okay.

TALIESIN: Not a ton. I want to try and make 12. I
want to see if I can make 12.

MATT: Make a tinkering check. Dexterity. Well, no.
This would be intelligence.

TALIESIN: It's intelligence?

MATT: It's a new concept you're trying.

TALIESIN: Intelligence check.

MATT: Plus your proficiency.

TALIESIN: Plus my proficiency. That's 19.

MATT: 19? Sure. You manage to make about 12 pieces
of silver shot. You know, for the most part,

because it's not as hard as other forms, it's
going to be...

but it is susceptible to enchantment.

TALIESIN: Which is why I was going to then take
those to Pike. I don't entirely understand how

this works, but I had an idea. And I show her the
12 silver bearings, basically. Would you know how

to bless something like this?

ASHLEY: I could certainly try.

TALIESIN: I think this might come in handy. It's a
wild idea. I don't know. I'm trying to think of

surprising her with something.

ASHLEY: I think that's actually a fantastic idea.

TALIESIN: They're a bit hard to make, and they may
just not be useful at all, but I thought... I

don't know how any of this works.

ASHLEY: I'll see what I can do. Yeah. I'll see
what I can do.

TALIESIN: Thank you.

MATT: Okay. You take the silver shot. Anyone want
to try anything else?

LAURA: Yeah. I want to buy some holy oil, or get
some holy oil from the church, or something.

(laughter) Where do I get holy oil?

SAM: From the church.

LAURA: We've gotten holy oil before. I just can't
remember from where.

MATT: Make an investigation check.

LAURA: 21.

MATT: 21. "You look like you're looking for
something to buy."

LAURA: Oh, really? Larry, do you have any holy
oil?

MATT: "My lady. Do I? I happen to have one vial of
holy oil, good for two applications."

LAURA: All right. That's it? Just one?

MATT: "Traveled a long way, and you're a little
late in the shopping day. I was all full on them,

"but they've been flying off the shelf. My
apologies."

LAURA: Skeletons everywhere.

ASHLEY: Vex, I have some holy oil?

LAURA: How much?

ASHLEY: I don't know. I just have a vial of it. I
don't know how much that is.

LAURA: That's good for two applications, I think.

ASHLEY: Probably good for two applications.

MATT: Three applications with the vial that you
have.

LAURA: Oh, this one has a little bit missing? How
much? Because this is less than it normally is.

MATT: "Look, you've already done some good
business with me. I'll give it to you for 150."

SAM: But you have to sign this poster.

(laughter)

ASHLEY: For my Hawaiian poke bowl mascot.

(laughter)

TRAVIS: I would eat there all the time.

LAURA: 150 gold. Sure. Only because Percy gave me
a look. You know what-- yeah, okay.

MATT: All right.

TALIESIN: She's going to keep trying to listen to
one word.

MARISHA: A lot to unpack here.

MATT: I'm not hearing music. We'll check that in a
second. Anybody else want to prepare anything?

LIAM: Yeah. I want to track down Kynan for a
minute.

MATT: Okay. You find him. It's early morning.
They've finished their early round of training for

the morning, and some of the early Pale Guard
recruits are in the process of rushing off and

taking a small lunch break. He's currently taking
a lot of the equipment from the training grounds

and setting it aside in the various weapon racks,
and generally cleaning up the space as you

approach. He looks over his shoulder as he sets
some of the practice blades along the edge.

LIAM: Hey, brother man. How's all?

MATT: "Good. All's well. Just keeping things
going. Got a lot of good up-and-coming folks."

LIAM: You got all these ladies and gentlemen in
shape?

MATT: "Working on it. It's a process."

LIAM: I don't want to take up a lot of your time.
We just got in, and we're heading out again.

Anyway, I'm glad that I have Simon back, but I
feel bad because I gave it to you and I took it

away. But we're leaving, and I want to travel
light, so I wanted to make it up to you. I have

this. I'm going to give you this dagger. It's the
Keen Dagger. Take this. It's too much; I can't use

it. I've got this thing. Anyway. Just hold onto
it. That's it.

MATT: "Thank you very much. I'll keep it at my
side." He takes the basic dagger out of his sheath

and chucks it into the corner.

LIAM: Yeah. That one's better. And thanks, and I
think Percy's thankful, too. I think. You're doing

really good work here.

MATT: "Thank you. Thank you very much."

LIAM: Long, twisted road, but look where we are.
Look where you are.

MATT: "There's still a ways to go."

LIAM: Pat, pat.

LAURA: Pat, pat where?

LIAM: On his dick, obviously.

(laughter)

TRAVIS: The open palm?

LIAM: On his cheek. That's it. Anyway, you're
busy. We'll see you soon.

MATT: "I look forward to it. Stay safe."

LIAM: I will. Keep up the good work. (whoosh)

MATT: All right.

SAM: I guess Taryon will go find Vex. Stumble up
and say, I have to stay here and keep working on

Doty. I understand you're leaving today.

LAURA: You're not going to come with us?

SAM: I cannot. I have to stay and fix Doty and get
back to my home. I'm sorry. It's been a pleasure.

LAURA: Don't say it's been a pleasure!

SAM: It's been an honor to have your acquaintance,
and I'm afraid I have to return, but perhaps we'll

meet again sometime.

LAURA: I give him a big old hug. And I give
him...

LIAM: Three copper.

LAURA: I give him-- I don't have any feathers
left, I don't think.

SAM: Do you have any money?

(laughter)

LAURA: I have no money, Tary.

SAM: I need money.

TALIESIN: Technically speaking, you've been on
salary.

SAM: How about this? I wrote you a check. Can you
rip it up? I don't think I can pay it, ever.

(laughter)

LAURA: Tary, I ripped it up about two weeks after
you moved in.

SAM: Thank you. And you have no other money on
you?

LAURA: I open up my pouch, and I've got zero
personal gold. Just party funds.

SAM: Well, I feel like I should leave you with all
of my belongings, and all of my magical items, but

I need them for my brigade. I'll leave you with
the seashell crown that who gave me? Grog?

LAURA: Percy.

SAM: Percy gave me.

LAURA: I think he'd want you to have that.

SAM: Do you want the half of a geode rock with 30
living souls inside of it?

LAURA: Yeah, give it to me. Thanks, friend.

SAM: I can't use it.

LAURA: 30-soul rock. Got it.

MARISHA: 30 Rock Soul? (giggles)

TRAVIS: 30 souls just sitting in a rock. You think
my shit's weird?

SAM: Maybe I should have shown that to Pike
sometime in the last year?

LAURA: I will show it to her.

TALIESIN: That's just been sitting on your
bedside, hasn't it?

Slowly making the sound of crying.

MATT: If you get really close at night, you hear
this faint (screams).

LAURA: Help me!

MATT: He puts another pillow over it.

LAURA: What is that?

TALIESIN: Anything else?

SAM: Do you think you'll see Percy anytime soon?

LAURA: I think I might.

SAM: When you do, (pink) can you give him this
little gem for his flashlight? I can't spare many,

but that will give him one flashlight.

LAURA: Definitely.

TALIESIN: He'll have to come back, anyway, because
he doesn't know how to make the ammo for his gun.

LAURA: How are you going to get Doty home?

SAM: Well, after he's fixed, me and Chod--

LAURA: Right. Lionel. I think he likes to be
called Lionel.

SAM: I prefer Chod. I think we'll set off the
old-fashioned way.

LAURA: See who you pick up along the way?

SAM: Ooh! That could be chapter one of the new
book.

LAURA: Exactly.

SAM: Yes. A New Hope. Something like that.

LAURA: I like it. It's epic. Catchy.

SAM: Yes. Well, I'm not going to say have fun,
because you're going to a terrible place.

LAURA: We might not make it out alive. If you talk
to my brother, that's what he says.

He says it every time.

LIAM: I never said that.

SAM: If you die, I will be very upset. Hey, if I
die, your thing will glow, so that will be good.

LAURA: Same. So we'll know.

SAM: I'll see you sometime in Wildemount?

LAURA: Of course we'll come visit you.

SAM: All right.

LAURA: I love you so much.

SAM: You, too. Take care of your hair. You know,
you shouldn't wash it as often as you do. It just

makes it dry and flaky.

LAURA: The oil is helpful. Thank you.

SAM: Get it trimmed every two weeks.

LAURA: Right.

SAM: And have someone comb it.

LAURA: Yeah, I probably should do that, huh?

SAM: It's really disgusting sometimes.

LAURA: Okay. I'll brush it a hundred brush strokes
every night, just like you.

SAM: Thank you. All right. Goodbye. I'll see you
soon, Little Elf Girl.

LAURA: Bye, Goldie. (fake-cries)

MATT: All right, so what do you wish to do, guys?

ASHLEY: Is there a way that I can bless these
bullets?

TALIESIN: They're musket balls, technically.
They're not bullets.

MATT: It will take you a while to do so. You could
temporarily bless them with the Bless spell, but

to infuse them with the blessing would be the
equivalent of a small enchantment, so it would

take you a couple of days or something.

ASHLEY: Well, I could start it, depending on when
we leave, I guess. I have Bless. I was looking at

that, but I didn't know I could use that on actual
objects, other than people.

TALIESIN: We also have to modify one of the
necklaces.

LAURA: Yeah. That needs to go to a blacksmith, or
something?

MARISHA: Unless we want to go through the
old-fashioned way like the cultists did.

LIAM: The old-fashioned way?

LAURA: We can't Plane Shift unless we alter the
necklace.

TALIESIN: But we have enough necklaces that we
could just jump through.

TRAVIS: That one.

MARISHA: We might take a little bit of damage on
the way through.

TRAVIS: I'm game.

LAURA: You have a bajillion health points.

TRAVIS: I also thought of something overnight. All
right? It hurt, because it's kind of brilliant.

Can you hold your breath for-- (whispering) what's
higher than ten?

ASHLEY: (whispering) 11.

TRAVIS: 11 seconds.

SAM: Sure.

LAURA: Why?

TRAVIS: Why don't all you bitches just hop in the
Bag of Holding, I jump through, take all the

damage for us, and then you just (popping sounds)
pop right back out?

TALIESIN: I can think of many reasons why that's
probably not a good idea.

TRAVIS: What could it possibly be?

TALIESIN: The Bag of Holding is a negative space.
It's not designed to sustain life.

TRAVIS: Have you ever been in one?

TALIESIN: Very specifically not, because things
die in there.

LIAM: Grog, think of all the things you've pulled
out of there that look like sloppy joes, when they

didn't look like that going in.

LAURA: Let's put something living inside of there
and wait ten seconds and then take it out and see

if it's still alive.

TRAVIS: But it has to be able to hold its breath.
If we throw a dog in there--

ASHLEY: So if it breathes, it will die.

TRAVIS: Yeah, there's no air, I don't think.

LAURA: If it's ten seconds and it's not knowing to
hold its breath, it will come out alive, still.

TRAVIS: If you want to do CPR, whatever.

TALIESIN: What if the things inside take the
damage even if they are in the Bag of Holding?

TRAVIS: We should find out. Are you going in?

TALIESIN: No.

TRAVIS: I'll go in.

ASHLEY: You stick your hand in there all the time.
No?

TALIESIN: This is not a magic you want to be
messing around with.

TRAVIS: All right. I just wanted to put it out
there. We can all take the stones and go through.

I bet it's not going to be that bad of a deal.

TALIESIN: No, this is the fantasy equivalent of locking
yourself in a refrigerator.

TRAVIS: Just wanted to put it out there if you
wanted to live on the edge of life, but no, we'll

just do it the boring way.

TALIESIN: I feel comfortable with the level of
risk-taking of jumping into a giant sphere that

crushes anything it touches.

MARISHA: It's definitely a large amount of
risk-taking already.

LAURA: Can anybody tell if this plate is cursed?
Can you tell if something's cursed, bro?

SAM: Oh, the armor?

LIAM: No.

LAURA: Can you tell if something is cursed, Pike?

ASHLEY: I could try. Can I check it out and see if
it's cursed?

TRAVIS: That is a face that says, I'm giving you
nothing. (groans) Garlic chicken.

LAURA: Gross. Were you the one burping earlier,
too?

TRAVIS: I blew it that way, though.

LAURA: Yeah, but somebody burped in the first half
of the game, and it was foul.

TRAVIS: It's probably me.

TALIESIN: Careful where you aim that. You might
break a camera.

SAM: Let's go. Let's move!

LAURA: I'm trying to figure out if this plate mail
is cursed or not.

SAM: Who the fuck cares? We're going to a cursed
place.

LAURA: No, but it's so we can put it on somebody
here.

TALIESIN: Let's grab a bit of funds. Do we have
the group funds, as well?

We have access to the group funds.

SAM: You think one plate armor's going to do
anything?

MARISHA: Scanlan's back.

TRAVIS: Let's go.

LIAM: Guess who's back?

MARISHA: Hang on. Do we want to do a Heroes'
Feast?

TALIESIN: Not yet.

LAURA: Yeah, 'cause what if something's waiting for
us on the other side?

TALIESIN: What if nothing's waiting for us on the
other side?

Because now we're down one Heroes' Feast.

LAURA: Yeah, but what if there is?

TRAVIS: We've got a mansion.

TALIESIN: Then we dive into the mansion and we
have a Heroes' Feast.

LAURA: We've got to waste a fucking minute. We've
got to protect Scanlan for a minute.

TALIESIN: I think we're going to be okay.

LIAM: I'm with your beau.

TALIESIN: I think over-cautious. Even when jumping
into the depths of the undead, there's such a

thing as over-cautious.

TRAVIS: Let's go down to the ziggurat.

TALIESIN: I'm putting the-- as I hit the
microphone. Do not touch your microphone when you

put on your necklace. I'm putting on my necklace.

LAURA: Okay, I'll put on my necklace.

MATT: Each of you don one of the symbols?

TRAVIS: Yeah.

MARISHA: Do we need to put on the robes, too, that
we found?

LAURA: Fuck the robes.

TALIESIN: I want them to see me coming.

MARISHA: All right. Do you want the robes?

LIAM: I don't feel strongly about it.

TRAVIS: If we put on the robes, we've got to pull
out an eyeball each, too.

ASHLEY: We're already there? We're standing at the
ball?

LAURA: Are we going down? Sure.

TRAVIS: We're going down to the ziggurat.

MATT: All right. You find your way down into the
subterranean tunnels beneath Whitestone, winding

through the caverns until you enter the chamber
that contains the ziggurat where you initially

faced off with the Briarwoods. As you climb to the
top, there before you, you see standing in all of

its glory, the black, as you've called it,
spinning orb of death. Approximately that large

now, and it's this dark void, that as you get
close, it has this weird vibration to it. And

there it is, suspended about four feet off the
ground at the top of this ziggurat.

LAURA: Can I get close to it and put the necklace
near it without touching it?

MATT: Yeah. You put the necklace near it, and you
watch as the sphere, this weird grayish aura

around it begins to emanate faintly, almost like
the closer it gets, the brighter this weird gray

aura tends to get and the wider it grows.

LAURA: That seems promising.

LIAM: I'm right behind you.

TALIESIN: Who first?

LIAM: Me. (whoosh)

SAM: (screams)

MATT: All right.

TALIESIN: Well, that happened.

MATT: I would like you to make a constitution
saving throw.

MARISHA: Keyleth reaches for Vax right as he goes
in. Oh shit.

LIAM: I'll use my first Luck of the day. Wasn't
that bad, but it's an important roll. That's

better. 20.

MATT: 20. Okay.

TRAVIS: That's a lot of dice.

MARISHA: Oh Jesus, that's so many dice.

ASHLEY: (whispering) I thought we bamfed into it.

MARISHA: He twitched again.

MATT: You take 11 points of necrotic damage.
Anybody else?

MARISHA: Just that? That's it?

MATT: You don't know that. You just saw him
vanish.

TRAVIS: I'm game. I'll go.

MARISHA: All right.

MATT: Everybody going in?

MARISHA: Yeah, in.

MATT: All right. Everyone, make a constitution
saving throw, please.

SAM: Nine. No, 17.

MATT: 17.

TALIESIN: 23.

MATT: 22 points of necrotic damage. 11 points of
necrotic damage.

TRAVIS: Nine.

MATT: 22 points of necrotic damage. 22 points of
necrotic damage.

ASHLEY: Six.

MATT: 22 points of necrotic damage.

MARISHA: 16.

MATT: 22 points of necrotic damage. So as you leap
into the sphere, you feel as if the gravity that

holds you to the ground, or sometimes the ceiling,
bends around you and your limbs are wrenched

forward, like someone has you in a full Nelson
that doesn't end. Your body is about to be

condensed and crushed, when you feel the symbol
pulse, and the gravity lessens somewhat. It's

still tearing into you, and you feel this coldness
and this numbness come over your body, as you feel

like you're a square peg being pushed through a
round hole, physically pushed through against your

will. You begin to yell out in pain instinctually
before it comes to a stop and you all land to your

feet, out of breath. The numbness begins to fade
to immediate pins and needles, just pain across

your entire body. You feel like someone just raked
a number of tacks across every surface of your

skin and as the pain begins to throb, you can feel
the blood pulsing throughout your body as it all

shoots to the surface. You still sense that you,
thanks to your symbols around your neck, you

managed to withstand a much more dangerous
arrival. As your eyes focus, you already feel the

chilled air that surrounds you, like a cold, cold
winter morning. The sky above is sunless and gray,

like an overcast horizon without clouds to texture
it, breached by distant mountain ranges like so

much broken glass. You see behind you immediately
the other corresponding siphon, floating, bright

gray-white in color and glowing, the same color
that you saw briefly shifted to in the ziggurat

near Ank'harel. Beneath it, you find shards of
ruined objects, piles of long-dead bodies, flesh

and bone rended and twisted like they'd been put
through some rapid tornado on different sides of

their body. And you see a lot of these shattered
pieces of wood and metal were all a number of

objects that were thrown in here during the
experimental phase when you guys first uncovered

this. You look around and notice that you stand
atop a rectangular platform of dark, smooth stone,

about 15 feet on each side. Beneath the edges,
about 20 feet down, 'til it comes to the ground.

So you're on an elevated stone platform that the
siphon is affixed to above, floating about four

feet above the top of the surface. And you look
down to the ground immediately around you and you

see just dry, cracked badlands. It seems to spread
out, making up the majority of the Shadowfell

around you. Surrounding your location, your sight
clarifies to see what appears to be hundreds of

buildings and structures that form this shade of
an ancient city, like a town, a sprawling village.

Half the structures toppled and destroyed, piles
of rubble and rock. The ground itself seems to jut

up in places, these tiny, shooting spires of black
and gray earth that the city has either been built

around or seemed to have grown through. As you
look past that, you see movement throughout the

streets in the distance, but before you can focus
on that, your vision immediately sticks towards,

in the center of this circular-like city, the
standing, ominous, commanding, massive spire of

obsidian black, familiar to both of you through
two different types of vision you've experienced.

A jagged monolith that exudes ancient hatred,
encircled by dozens of dark, winged beasts that

watch over the dreary skies. Who here is
proficient in history?

LAURA: Nobody is proficient in history?!

SAM: We're doomed to repeat it.

TRAVIS: Really, Percy?

TALIESIN: No, I have other qualities, history was
not my forefront. I know Whitestone.

SAM: Somewhere, Taryon is reading a history book.

MATT: Exactly. The two of you make history checks
with disadvantage because you lack proficiency.

Yes, you being a bard, you pick up information in
passing. With disadvantage, each of you.

TALIESIN: Nine.

SAM: 11.

LAURA: Oh god.

SAM: That's a bad sign.

MATT: You have no inclination of where you stand
or what's before you. All you know is you stand

now on the cold plane of the Shadowfell, the echo
of the Prime Material.

LAURA: Our notes on the Shadowfell.

MATT: You do.

TALIESIN: Can we consult the Rand McNally?

TRAVIS: The Rand McNally guide, yeah.

MATT: You're welcome to. Just so you guys know,
you are all standing out in the middle of the

open, on this large stone platform looking down in
the center of this giant city--

LAURA: There are things that are moving below. I
see them.

MARISHA: And the ziggurat is above us?

MATT: There is no ziggurat. There is a large,
black spire, but that's in the center of the city

maybe two miles off.

LAURA: As we hop down, I cast Pass Without a Trace
on all of us.

LIAM: There are buildings around, so are we in the
middle of a field, a plain, badlands?

MATT: There are buildings. You see two structures
maybe 50 or 60 feet from you on each side, and

then going forward, from your current position, it
leads right into the city. So this structure is on

the outskirts. It's right on the perimeter.

LAURA: Do we see any other orbs around?

MATT: Make a perception check.

LAURA: 25.

MATT: You glance and, in the faint gray sky above
you, around the glowing white-gray orb this side

of the siphon, you see a very, very faint aura of
bluish-purple that is weaving into a thread, a

rope almost, various strands that knot and twist
to form a cord, a very barely visible cord that

just drifts up towards the very top of that tower
for miles. And there at the top of the tower, you

see a vibrant, sparking, pulsing, purple glow. And
from there, you can see two other distant strands

that arc off into the very faint other edges
across, triangulating around the other sides of

the outskirts of this ancient city. You see the
faint, glowing white-gray pulse of two other

siphons affixed to two other platforms, all these
strands converging at the top of the tower.

ASHLEY: Before we get to it, can I cast Bless on
his bullets so I can give them back to him?

MATT: How long does it last?

ASHLEY: Not very long.

MATT: You can. There's a difference between
casting a spell and enchanting something. It's a

loose enchantment to Bless the ammunition. That
takes a while to focus on.

TALIESIN: I imagine it'll take a few days when
it's done.

ASHLEY: When it's done.

TALIESIN: I don't expect us to be in and out of
here, I think this is going to take some time.

ASHLEY: I'd rather enchant them.

TRAVIS: The structures to our left and our right,
are they solid, do they have focus?

MATT: They're solid, they're stone buildings,
they're homes, though plain and cracked. There are

sections of wall missing in places. As you look
about the grounds here, and you know this because

you've ransacked and been responsible for the
ransacking... or the rubble of Westruun. But this

city appears to have been, some time long ago,
under siege. You see signs of battle, you see

impact, you see roofs that were burned and now lie as
just black husks. This area has seen warfare long

ago and the signs of it are old and it looks like
the signs of life that exist in this space, the

movement you see of figures in the distance
wandering through the streets, there's no

immediate threat to this city, but you get the
sense just looking out that something big happened

here a long time ago.

TRAVIS: Any of you with the eyes, can you see what
that is up in the air?

LAURA: Yeah, I also want to look and see what the
fuck kind of creatures it is that are moving

around in the city. But I want to see what kind of
creatures are flying around as well.

MATT: Okay, so you guys have moved down from the
platform, and you cast Pass Without a Trace, so

I'd like everyone to make a stealth check, please.
Adding plus ten to your roll.

SAM: 26.

TALIESIN: 22.

MARISHA: 27.

LIAM: 40.

LAURA: 23.

ASHLEY: 21.

TRAVIS: 18.

LAURA: Ooh shit, you rolled bad, yo!

MATT: Okay! So, to stay stealthed, you have to
find some place to be stealthy. You're not

stealthing out in the middle of nowhere. Where are
you going to find--

TALIESIN: Towards the city.

LAURA: Those buildings.

LIAM: Are we temporarily staying put and talking
shit out or are we going?

TALIESIN: The building on the left, I'd say.

LAURA: Yeah, like hide behind something.

MATT: Okay, you guys dart off to the left. It
appears to have once been a two-story structure,

but the upper level has since collapsed and part
of it is falling into the bottom floor. As you

begin to approach the doorway on the inside,
Vex'ahlia, you hear what sounds like a faint

crunching sound on the inside.

TRAVIS: (nervous laughter) What the fuck? Oh my
god.

LIAM: (whispering) What's the matter?

LAURA: (whispering) There's something in this
building. (louder) Are there windows on the

building, at all?

MATT: There are. There is one window on your side,
and the doorway around the corner.

LAURA: Peek in.

LIAM: I'll look in the window with my 40 stealth.

MATT: You glance inside, and as you peek over the
top, in the brief bits of light coming through the

shadow in here, you can see the collapsed piles of
broken stone and wood planks that used to hold the

structure of the upper level together. You can see
what looks like furniture that's been destroyed.

Simple, basic. This is not an
extravagantly decorated space. Built for function,

more than anything. But moving amidst the shadow,
you see what appears to be a humanoid creature of

pale gray skin, elongated limbs, long, clawed
fingers. Bald head, pointed, hooked ears, and what

looks to be slightly broken, jagged, yellow,
elongated teeth in this jaw, as it's currently

munching on what looks to be a small furred rodent
of some kind. (crunching)

LIAM: This is probably redundant, but I will
Divine Sense undead.

MATT: It is very undead.

LIAM: Do I sense, see, hear anything besides this
one?

MATT: What's the radius?

LIAM: 60 feet.

MATT: Nothing else catches your attention, no. You
watch as it finishes and walks toward the doorway.

Vex'ahlia, as you're off to the side, you watch as
this creature leans forward and goes into a

sprint, and then leaps up onto a distant rooftop.
(leaping noises) Just leaping from rooftop to

rooftop. As you're watching that leap, another
movement catches your eye, and you see another one

about three blocks down. You can see, there are at
least a handful of these creatures stalking

through the ruins, leaping from building to
building, from floor to floor.

ASHLEY: What was it eating?

MATT: A small, furred creature. You didn't get a good
look at it. You got a fair look at it.

TRAVIS: It was an otter. I love otters.

MATT: Apparently, so does the creature.

LAURA: Why would there be otters in the
Shadowfell?

MATT: There's something you didn't know about
otters, Laura.

MARISHA: They love holding hands?

LAURA: Does it look like any of those scary
creatures are around each other, or are they

avoiding each other?

MATT: It's hard to tell at this distance. You're
so far out of the city. You've only been able to

notice a few shapes from this distance. You'd
probably have to get in a little closer and spend

some time watching their behavior to pick that
up.

LIAM: I'm going to crouch down by this dead
rodent. Do I sense the Queen, more or less, here?

MATT: Make a wisdom check.

LIAM: 18.

MATT: You close your eyes for a second. No. None.

TRAVIS: Can I pop my head back out the door, and
looking at the ground, is there any semblance of a

sewer system or a runoff grate or anything?

MATT: Make a perception check.

TRAVIS: Oh Jesus. Yeah, bitch. Seven.

MATT: No. Not at all.

LAURA: Grog! Get your head back inside.

TRAVIS: What?

LAURA: There's things flying around out there.

TRAVIS: I'm keeping a lookout.

TALIESIN: I'm going to crawl up the wall to the
second floor to see what's up there.

MATT: As you go up the side and step over onto the
rubble, you see a large, broken, what was once the

floor of the top floor that slid into this giant
decline, this slide of rubble, if you will. At the

top, you can see what looks to be a broken weapon
rack that is empty. No weapons on it, but you get

the sense that this small structure was a
perimeter tower outpost.

TALIESIN: It's been cleaned out.

MATT: Apparently.

TALIESIN: There's no sign of anybody who used to
be here? Nothing of value, nothing of interest?

MATT: Not in the structure, no.

TALIESIN: I think we're going to have to move
deeper in.

SAM: Should I make us all ghoulie?

TRAVIS: Do we notice anything strange about the
little necklaces that we're wearing now that we're

in this place?

MATT: Nothing at the moment, no.

LIAM: Hey, you feeling good about your decision to
come with us?

SAM: This is terrible. I haven't had this much fun
in a long time. Let's go do it. I'll cast Seeming

on us and make us all gray, pointy-eared, little
Nosferatu-vampirey things, I suppose. Did I see

the thing that skittered out?

MATT: Very briefly.

SAM: I've seen other undead things.

MATT: Yeah. You can make something that looks
undead-adjacent.

SAM: Yeah. My guy will look more like the Meat Man
in undead form, but otherwise, everyone's normal.

LAURA: I want straggly, but still a braid. Really
nasty, straggly hair.

SAM: Your ear's half off.

TRAVIS: I definitely want an eyeball hanging out.

SAM: Sure.

TALIESIN: Straight hole right through the head. No
jaw.

SAM: Okay.

MATT: All right. What do you guys do?

LAURA: I think we should probably try to observe
the things that are flying around the tower.

TALIESIN: Slowly make our way to the town.

LAURA: Observe. Still try to avoid any of those
scary creatures, but see if they avoid each other

as we look at them.

LIAM: Super slow, super careful.

SAM: Maybe we should stagger.

LAURA: No, those things were speedy. Be normal.

SAM: We'll walk like this.

TALIESIN: Left, right, left, step, step, step.

(laughter)

MATT: Make a performance check. No.

MARISHA: While they were looking at weapons racks
and doing stuff like that--

TALIESIN: You make it sound so tawdry. Carry on.

MARISHA: While they were doing that, I pull Vax
aside. I grab him--

SAM: Let's get married.

LAURA: Let's just do it.

MARISHA: Goddamn it. Scanlan's back. Listen, you
can't die, and I don't know what's going on in

your head, or what you're thinking, but I feel
like it's not good.

LIAM: I'm the best I've ever been. Don't worry
about me. Worry about us.

MARISHA: Has the Raven Queen spoken to you at
all?

LIAM: Yes.

MARISHA: Recently? Down here?

LIAM: Not since we got here, no, but recently.

MARISHA: I need you with us. Not with her. I need
you with us, and with me. So let me do this. And

I'm going to burn my 9th-level spell and cast
Foresight on Vax.

SAM: Ooh, Foresight!

LAURA: What is that?

SAM: Shit. It's real good.

(laughter)

LIAM: This one goes to nine.

LAURA: What is Foresight?

MARISHA: Don't fuck it up, man. It's my 9th-level
spell.

MATT: For the next eight hours, not concentration,
you can't be surprised. You have advantage on all

attack rolls, ability checks, and saving throws,
and other creatures have disadvantage on attack

rolls against you.

LAURA: Holy shit.

SAM: You can see just in the future. Three
seconds.

LAURA: That's amazing!

LIAM: You guys, let's go shopping!

(laughter)

TRAVIS: I raise my blood axe...

MATT: All right.

SAM: Am I going to die in three seconds?
Am I going to die in three seconds?

(laughter)

TALIESIN: Let's make our way into town. Quietly.

LIAM: Within the next eight hours.

SAM: I feel like Vax should lead the party.

MATT: All right, so are you stealthing through?

TALIESIN: Yes.

LAURA: Still being stealthy, but yeah.

LIAM: Looking cool, but stealthing.

MARISHA: We look so cool.

TALIESIN: We're not doing--

LAURA: Matt's like, I will kill you all.

MATT: You guys scatter just enough to dart between
alleys and find shaded bits and leap from base of

building to alley, keeping a cohesive unit as best
you can. The first thing you notice, the further

in you get, even within just the first couple of
blocks of the city, you see broken swords, you see

pieces of armor, and you see figures walking
through the street ahead of you. You see hundreds

of scattered skeletons, decomposing bodies
shambling through, but they all walk in patterns.

They're not scattered, mindless. There is some
will or direction to their movements. You see them

wearing ornate armor with designs and symbols on
them that look old and tarnished and scratched.

LIAM: Are they moving like troops or is each
individual following its own...?

MATT: Some are moving as troops, and occasionally
you see an individual wander off, but they're just

sort of walking around and scanning. I'm going to
have Scanlan, you roll a history check, and Pike,

roll a religion check.

SAM: 17. Oh! You know what, seems important, I
will inspire myself. Can I do that? I haven't done

this in so long.

MATT: Yeah, add a d12 to it.

SAM: 18.

MATT: Got to get the dust off, man.

ASHLEY: 23.

MATT: Okay. You, looking over there, a lot of the
armor that these skeletons are wearing, it doesn't

fit with the Shadowfell. The silvers, the golds,
the tattered blue cloaks, there's something regal

about some of these armor sets, as old and ancient
as they may be. It doesn't seem to match the sense

and feel of the Shadowfell. While you're having
this thought, Pike, you glance over and look at

one of these pieces of armor and you recognize the
symbol, it's like a stained-glass circle with a

gold star in the center. It's the symbol of Pelor.
Many of these bodies, these undead wandering the

city, seem to have been soldiers that fell in
whatever battle that once besieged this city, and

many bear the mark of Pelor.

TALIESIN: I mean, the Chained--

LAURA: The Chained Oblivion.

TALIESIN: The Chained Oblivion, there was a fight
between.

MATT: That was, but that was on the Prime
Material, and that was in the vicinity of the

Alabaster Sierras.

TALIESIN: That mark couldn't have ended up--

LAURA: Was the Shadowfell always the Shadowfell?

TALIESIN: I don't know.

SAM: Maybe this city was taken somewhere else or
something. Transported here.

MARISHA: Does this city look like Whitestone?

MATT: No. None of the buildings, the structures,
resemble Whitestone.

SAM: Is there any architecture that I, or anyone,
notices, like from a region of where we've been?

MATT: No. Not really.

SAM: Mid-century modern, mostly?

MATT: Yeah, yeah, lot of Ikea. No, but you do get
the sense-- some of the architecture here does

resemble elements of some architecture designs
that remind you of Wildemount.

SAM: Man, we should have brought Tary.

MATT: But, like, old Wildemount. Like, no modern
structures, definitely from centuries back. As you

continue to wander and keep your eyes out, you
occasionally hear the distant (creature

shrieking). You watch as the (wings flapping)
winged, dark beasts are circling overhead.

SAM: Do we recognize them?

MATT: No, not yet.

LAURA: Never seen anything like it?

MATT: You have not seen anything like these
before. Black as night against the gray sky. From

this distance, you make out no details in their
bodies. It's almost like a moving shadow above

you. Wherever light would hit to give you some
sense of structure, it's just absence, void. It's

just a flying shadow.

TALIESIN: Are there any buildings that have enough
structure to them where it feels like there might

be things inside that have been relatively
unmolested at this point?

MATT: Possibly. Make a perception check.

TALIESIN: 12.

MATT: 12. I mean, there are some buildings that
look like they have some structure, and the

further into the city you get, the more you see
that this becomes a little less destroyed. But you

begin to see some figures moving that are not
armored undead, not zombies, and not any of these

quick-moving creatures. You see three figures
walking back towards the orb where you guys came

from in the same black cult robes, hoods off. They
would appear to be human.

TALIESIN: But they're cultists.

MATT: But they're cultists.

LAURA: They don't look like they're afraid of
walking around?

LIAM: Yeah, what's their demeanor?

MATT: They're just walking through.

LIAM: How far are they from us?

MATT: They're about 100 feet up. A little further
than that.

LIAM: Coming our way?

MATT: Coming your way towards the sphere where you
guys were.

ASHLEY: Maybe that's what we need to look like.

TRAVIS: Cover and ambush?

LIAM: Or watch, see what they're doing.

TALIESIN: Kill two, keep one to question?

MARISHA: How many are there, three?

MATT: Three of them.

TALIESIN: God, can we even kill people here? Will
they die?

LIAM: Yes. But do we watch, see what they do with
the sphere first?

TALIESIN: Let's cut them off.

SAM: I could be bait. Then you could come ambush
them.

LIAM: Let's watch for a moment longer.

TRAVIS: Find cover.

MATT: Okay. So what do you guys do?

TRAVIS: I'm going into the building.

LAURA: I'm following them, just subtly.

MARISHA: Yeah, let the twins go ahead first.

MATT: Okay, so the two twins follow and the rest
of you duck into a building off to the side? Okay.

You guys, I need you both individually to roll
stealth as you tail behind them.

LAURA: And we still have Pass Without a Trace on.
34.

LIAM: 45.

SAM: Wait, we're staying put and they're walking
off somewhere else? How are we going to see what's

going to happen?

TRAVIS: They were walking towards us.

MATT: The cultists are basically walking past you
guys, going the opposite direction of where you

were traveling, and both the twins just vanish
from sight. You're like, "Well what if-- Gone

again." You guys pace behind them, jumping from
alley to alley. Occasionally they'll stop and do a

walk over. There's not a sense of paranoia, but
they're very watchful. Their attire, while still

cult robes, is a little more intricately adorned,
and you see the one in the front is carrying a

hanging lantern that gives off this weird smoke
behind it, like a censer.

TRAVIS: A censer?

LIAM: Yeah, like a Catholic.

MATT: Yeah. But it gives off this faint glow, and
they walk and make their way slowly outside of the

city towards the pillar where the orb is. And they
just look around it, walk over to the few

buildings to the side, divide a little bit to a
perimeter, reconvene at the base of the orb, and

begin making their way back to the center of the
city.

LAURA: Is there anything else around? Should we
kill them?

LIAM: All three? Take one? Kill two, leave one?

SAM: We can ambush them.

LAURA: Get ready for an ambush.

TALIESIN: When they walk by the house, push them.

LAURA: When they walk past you guys, we'll
attack.

SAM: Should I put someone out there to confuse
them?

LIAM: No. When we go, follow suit.

MARISHA: I can Grasping Vine one into the
building, right into Grog's hands.

LAURA: Wait until we attack them first.

MATT: All right. The three of them walk back,
leaving a small censer trail behind. The smoke,

the almost incense-like smoke, burns off within a
few feet after. They eventually cross right next

to the doorway and window to where the rest of you
are waiting. Both of you guys roll for an attack.

Are you aiming at two different ones? Same one?

LAURA: Two different ones. And it's an
automatic...

MATT: It's an automatic crit if you hit, and you
have advantage on the hit

because they don't see you.

LAURA: Natural 20. Not that it matters, because I
already got a crit.

MATT: But still, it's nice.

LIAM: 26.

MATT: 26. Both hit. Go ahead and roll damage, both
of you, doubling your weapon die damage and your

sneak attack.

LAURA: Bramble shot.

SAM: There's three of them, right?

MATT: Three of them, yes... You also double the
bramble shot damage because it's a crit.

SAM: Hey, look, we're killing things! Well,
maybe.

TALIESIN: Incapacitating, at the very least.

LIAM: 85.

LAURA: Oh, shit, dude.

SAM: 85?

MATT: 85 damage. Rogues, man. It's what they do.

TALIESIN: The head is cleaved from the body.

LAURA: 56 for me.

SAM: It was Kima and Allura on a mission. They're
dead.

MATT: As the three of them walk, the two on the
outside both, at the same time, (impacts),

crumple. No noise, just fall to their knees, face
down on the ground, unmoving. The one in the

center that's holding the censer turns and looks
back and sees--

MARISHA: And I go (whoosh) and Grasping Vine him,
and throw him right into Grog's hands.

LAURA: Don't kill him!

TRAVIS: And if he's successfully thrown, I just
cover his mouth and

grab the back of his head and squeeze.

SAM: Which mouth?

TRAVIS: Ew, God.

MATT: That is a 16.

MARISHA: Fail.

MATT: Fail. That's right, because 21. So as soon
as he turns around, out of one of the cracks in

the stonework nearby, you can see some dry,
grass-like gray brush. There is what appears to be

some faint hints of local plant life, but it all
looks like gray, dry grass. Or, you know after a

morning freeze, when you see elements of a field
that have that weird, textured, almost water plant

look to it? It's clusters of that, but curled. And
one of those whips out with this one, long,

grayish, almost fleshy-looking vine that wraps
around it and yanks it inside the house. (grunt)

Gets yanked in. Grog, you catch him.

TRAVIS: Cover his mouth.

LIAM: Like clockwork.

MATT: Go ahead and make an athletics check, Grog.

TRAVIS: Oh, that's a million. 26.

MATT: He struggles against your grasp, and it's
nothing. It's like holding a baby in your arms.

TRAVIS: Percy, will you give him a reminder not to
move?

TALIESIN: Oh, yes, this will be fun. I take out a
small, three-inch steel ball. I look him right in

the eye, and go, Manners. And I toss the steel
ball at our friend. The iron bands.

MATT: Okay. What does he have to save on that?

TALIESIN: I actually make a ranged attack roll.

MATT: Okay, make a ranged attack roll. d20 plus
your dexterity. You have advantage because he's

currently restrained by Grog.

TALIESIN: Makes me feel better. Thank God. That's
still fine. 23.

MATT: Okay, so as you chuck it the three feet, it
impacts, and you watch as the orb swells and

expands, and all of these chain-like plates of
dark, reddish iron metal wrap around him,

constraining his hands, his legs, and locking him
into place around his jaw

and his head and his mouth.

TALIESIN: Excellent.

LAURA: Can he still talk?

TRAVIS: Yeah, when I take my hand off his mouth.

TALIESIN: This thing will allow him to talk. I
believe this thing has a...

MATT: It has a little slit that you can remove to
the side.

LIAM: It's got a gimp hole?

MATT: All good magical items do, Liam. That's what
you call an artifact.

TALIESIN: I give him a second to sit and I wait
until we're all inside.

MATT: Okay. You guys both attacked.

LAURA: Pull the bodies inside.

MATT: First make a stealth check, because you both
exposed yourselves with the attack, and there are

creatures overhead shrieking.

TALIESIN: With advantage. He has advantage.

LIAM: Plus Pass Without Trace.

LAURA: 35.

LIAM: 37, that's kind of low for me.

MATT: Okay. You watch as one swoops nearby, and
you hear the (shrieking), and you guys dart by.

Doesn't seem to take notice. You drop back into
the building, and there you see your quarry now

bolted to himself through a series of dark iron
metal plates.

TRAVIS: Our quarry, does he have two eyes?

MATT: He does not have both eyes. Left eye is
missing. You see him now. This is a man in his

mid-40s, salt and pepper hair, seems to be an
unkempt beard around his chin. Hair is maybe about

ear-length, a little tattered now since he's been
roughed up and manhandled a bit. His skin's a bit

yellowed, a little jaundiced. You get the sense
he's probably been living here for quite some

time, and he doesn't look healthy.

LAURA: I grab the thing that was making the smoke
and bring it.

MATT: The smell is awful. It's hard to
differentiate from the general smell of decay and

dust that this entire realm seems to be suffused
with, but the smoke that billows off of this is

like fresh putrescence, mixed with a very, very
strong charcoal.

TALIESIN: This may be how they move freely.

LAURA: That's what I'm thinking. We hide the
bodies. We'll bring the bodies inside, too, so

that nobody sees them.

LIAM: Press him.

TALIESIN: I'm going to let you speak, and we're
going to have a conversation. Given where you are,

the circumstances that we find you in, I'm going
to let you know that there is a curse upon my

weapon, and the souls that are killed with this
weapon are claimed by a demon named Orthax. Now, I

haven't experimented as to what happens when
somebody's soul is claimed by more than one

creature, but I'm excited to find out. So wouldn't
it be interesting if everything you've been

promised here is suddenly null and void? So, yes,
we may threaten your life, but I want you to know

that what's really at stake here is just precisely
what's left of your soul, so answer with caution.

And I unlock.

MATT: Roll an intimidation check.

TRAVIS: That was nasty, it was real good.

TALIESIN: Fucking dice. No love on that one.
Terrible. Eight.

MATT: You unlock, and he just goes (laughs) "I
don't have to tell you anything."

LIAM: I punch him in the temple.

MATT: "This pain is meager. I've felt far worse.
I've given myself far worse.

"Pry and poke all you want."

LIAM: I punch him in the mouth.

TALIESIN: This sort of thing isn't going to get us
anywhere. Pike.

Think you can give him back his eye?

LAURA: Oh, that's a good idea.

SAM: You're going to use a carrot?

LIAM: No, that's the stick.

MARISHA: Do you have Regenerate with you?

ASHLEY: I do.

LAURA: Separate him from his god.

ASHLEY: I put my hand over his eye.

MATT: He doesn't flinch.

LAURA: Do it.

ASHLEY: Are you ready to have your eye back?

MATT: "I'll just pluck it right back out."

ASHLEY: Well, you can't. Because you're just going
to stay in these binds forever.

LIAM: Or Grog will pull your arms off.

MATT: "Do your worst."

LAURA: No, he's not scared of pain.

TRAVIS: Just ask him some questions before the fun
begins. Let's see what he answers with.

LAURA: Do you know Delilah Briarwood?

MATT: "Maybe. The fact that you're already here
means that you have no way out, so I fear not.

"Even if I perish, I die with the comfort of
knowing that you'll perish soon after. That is the

"comfort in the Whispered One."

LAURA: Vecna.

MATT: "So you knowingly came here. You are both
foolish and simple."

TRAVIS: No, that's just me.

MATT: "So you said you have questions."

TRAVIS: What's flying around in the sky?

MATT: "The sentinels."

TRAVIS: Sentinels.

MATT: "That is what they are for us, but they are
known more formally as Gloom Stalkers."

TRAVIS: Gloom Stalkers. That is a great name.

MATT: "They are hungry. Ever hungry."

TRAVIS: They also look fearsome. Do people cower
before them in their presence?

MATT: "You will."

TRAVIS: I'll bet. I am easily startled.

TALIESIN: Where are you from?

MATT: "It does not matter. The past means nothing
when you give up your secrets."

TALIESIN: The ziggurats, there's three of them.
You've come through the Wildemount one?

MATT: He shakes his head. "You will get no
information from me."

SAM: All right. Can I have a try? You've got one
eye, right? Ugh.

MATT: You see the gaping socket, and as he goes to
blink one eye, you can see the marking on the

inside, it looks like it was burned out, so you
watch the outer edge of the flesh and muscle

twitch whenever he blinks.

SAM: Gross ocular muscles. I just want to make you
feel good, man, so I'll just sing to you. I'll

hold up my cone, and I'll sing, (singing) Just the
two of us. You can't quit me if you tried. Just

the two of us. Me and your eye. So I'll Dominate
Person.

TRAVIS: He's back.

MATT: That is... That's an 11. All right. His grin
glazes over and he goes...

SAM: Will you please tell us everything you know
when we ask you?

MATT: "But of course."

SAM: Where are you from?

MATT: "I am from the outskirts of a far eastern
Wildemount village named Zuvan. It was built on the

"ruins of Orthanus. I was a poor man, but I found
purpose."

SAM: Did you come through a ziggurat in Wildemount?
And if so, where?

MATT: "I don't know. I was taken with many others
who had given themselves to the secrets of the

"Undying King. I awoke here, mauled but living, and
was inducted, and that was when he took my eye."

SAM: He?

MATT: "He. One of the acolytes."

SAM: The flying things. Well, we know what they
are now.

TRAVIS: What do they do?

SAM: Do the flying things have magical powers?

MATT: "I do not know. They shriek, they eat, they
watch. I do not mess with such terrible and

"wonderful instruments."

ASHLEY: How does he get through all the dead?

SAM: The smoke-making thing that you were
carrying. What is it and how does it work?

MATT: "It protects those of us who are not as
esteemed in the arts of necromancy to not be

"bothered by the roving, long-dead soldiers of the
last war on Thar Amphala."

SAM: The last war on Thar Amphala! What does that
mean?

LAURA: I don't know!

SAM: What does that mean?

MARISHA: The last war on what?

MATT: Thar Amphala. Thar Amphala, the city built
for the Whispered One, long ago.

SAM: Oh, that's where we are.

LAURA: Who lives in the tower, Vecna? Is that
where he is?

MATT: He just looks at you strangely.

LIAM: It's got to come from him.

LAURA: I'm a really good friend of his.

SAM: She really is, that's being rude. But who
lives in the tower?

Is it Vecna or Mistress Delilah?

MATT: "It's where his essence has slowly reclaimed
the space. He will live soon."

LAURA: Oh, but he's not back yet!

SAM: The Mistress Delilah. Where is she right
now?

MATT: "I have not seen her, but if she is not out,
then perhaps the ritual is soon. She is probably

"at the top of Entropis."

SAM: Entropis is the tower?

MATT: "Yes."

MARISHA: That tower?

SAM: The only tower.

TRAVIS: What other alarms are there in the city
that would detect outsiders?

SAM: What protections do you have on the tower?

MATT: "I do not know the specifics. I am but a
watcher on the outside of Thar Amphala."

SAM: You don't go in?

MATT: "I have not gone in since I gave my eye."

SAM: And what are your people called? Your group,
your cult?

MATT: "We are the Remnants."

ASHLEY: What's his purpose?

SAM: What's your job with the Remnants?

MATT: "I am to watch the outskirts of the city. I
am to escort those who would bring various things

"in preparation for the ritual."

LAURA: What ritual? What is the ritual going to
do?

SAM: What will the ritual do?

MATT: "The ritual is to restore him. To bring him,
so that he can complete the main purpose. The

"ritual of seeding."

SAM: He's just a farmer, guys.

LIAM: How does Delilah factor into it? What does
she get out of it? What does she do?

SAM: I don't think he knows all of the
intricacies.

LIAM: I know, but he's probably promised them all
something.

SAM: What has Delilah promised you? What do you
gain out of this?

MATT: "When he, the Undying King, returns to this
world, and we bring what we have gained, what we

"have brought from the other plane, that seed will
be taken to the ritual of the space."

LAURA: What have they brought?

SAM: Did you bring something through the portal?
What was it?

MATT: "I do not understand the details, but for
many months now, these siphons, they have been

"building the seed. They have been preparing for
his return. And from there, he will complete what

"he started so long ago."

LAURA: And that shit's happening soon?

SAM: When does the ritual begin?

MATT: "Soon. Things accelerate."

SAM: I know we look different now, but if you had
to pick one of us, which is the most handsome?

MATT: "That would be you, my friend."

SAM: I thought so.

TRAVIS: Can he take us safely to the tower?

SAM: Can you escort us to the tower? Dominate
Person has got to be wearing off.

MATT: I'm checking the spell just to be sure.

LAURA: We have a thing. We can at least get
through town.

SAM: One minute. It's probably over.

MATT: Yeah. So by about now, after these questions
have come through, his one eye blinks, and he

goes, (grunt), "It matters not. He already knows
you're here."

LIAM: I punch him in the temple again.

LAURA: He likes it. Stop giving him pleasure.

TRAVIS: I poke him in his remaining eyeball.

MATT: Do you? Roll a strength check.

LIAM: A strength check? For some Jello?

TRAVIS: Oh God. 25.

MATT: (shriek of pain)

TALIESIN: I close the mouth.

MATT: There is a smear of crimson down his face as
the other eye has just been turned to paste.

LAURA: Wow, we're terrible people.

TRAVIS: Oh, what was that? It matters not? Oh, are
you going to be rewarded? Yeah. How many middle

fingers am I holding up?

LAURA: We should put him out of his misery.

TRAVIS: Why? I like misery.

SAM: Well, if we just release him into the city
without his censer...

LIAM: He's going to stumble out like a maniac.
Squish the bug, Grog.

SAM: No, no. If we send him away from us, maybe
one of those things will find him and we'll have a

clearer path.

TRAVIS: He's yelling. He'll make all sorts of
sound.

SAM: Yeah, if we send him away from us and then we
go the other way. He's a human distraction!

TALIESIN: We don't need a distraction, we need
quiet at this point.

LIAM: And those things, we don't know if they
could alert back if they saw something fishy like that.

TALIESIN: I'll release him and you do your
business, all right? Manners.

MATT: (mechanical clicking) It all unfolds and
returns into the sphere.

TRAVIS: Great word.

TALIESIN: Thank you. It's programmable.

TRAVIS: Should we let you back out so you can find
your way back?

MATT: "Do your worst."

TRAVIS: (crack)

MATT: With a sickening snap, you can hear as the
spinal column is severed at the base of the neck,

and he goes limp in Grog's grasp.

ASHLEY: Grab his necklace in case we need another
one for some reason.

LAURA: Should we grab any cloaks?

TALIESIN: Grab the necklaces and the cloaks and
the censer. All three of them.

MATT: Actually, he has almost nothing on him but
the censer.

MARISHA: No necklace?

MATT: He has-- Actually, no, he would not have one
of the necklaces. Because he does not...

MARISHA: Travel through?

MATT: He has a symbol, a similar symbol, but it's
much smaller, more just a basic holy symbol of

some kind. Same shape, but it doesn't have the
same thick iron presentation as the ones that you

guys encountered.

LAURA: I have a holy symbol to Vecna that we took
off of somebody in the original ziggurat.

MATT: Yes, and that is the same symbol.

LAURA: It is, okay.

LIAM: We're in an ancient city. Are there the
remains of furniture in here?

LAURA: I just want to take a nap or a cozy
sit-down.

LIAM: No, I want to shove him in a closet or wrap
him up in something.

TRAVIS: I'm putting him in the Bag of Holding as
you're talking.

TALIESIN: We can't keep everything.

LIAM: Does anybody see any-- Never mind.

TALIESIN: Is there anything of interest in this
building, since we have a moment?

MATT: Make an investigation check.

LIAM: I'm going to investigate, too, because I was
looking for furniture.

TALIESIN: 15.

LIAM: And I have advantage, hold on.
Investigation... 22.

MATT: Okay. You do find some furniture. Most of
it's very basic, tables, maybe a couple chairs, a

couple of cots that are mainly wood boards with a
thin cushion on it. The existence here was not to

be-- It's a very plain city of worship. You can
see everything was built here to gather

worshipers, to gather the Remnants, or whatever
they were called before, the last time that Vecna

fell and the city was assaulted.

LIAM: Right, so this is all worse than Fallout
Three at this point.

MATT: It's on par with.

LIAM: PlayStation Three graphics.

TALIESIN: I say we make our way towards the
spire.

MATT: So now, still under the guise of various
undead, holding a wandering burning censer

procured from the now-dead, eye-popped corpse of a
wandering cultist, you slowly make your way deeper

into the city of Thar Amphala, towards the tower
of Entropis, where seemingly the cult of the

Remnant are attempting to bring Vecna back to
physical form for an even greater ritual

thereafter. And that's where we'll finish
tonight's episode. We'll return next week to pick

up from there, guys.

LAURA: This is amazing!

TRAVIS: This is the best setup ever!

MATT: So happy. I know! I get to touch people's
hands!

LIAM: Dorks!

MATT: I know, we're such huge nerds. This feels so
much like the home game, it makes me happy.

LIAM: Serious deja vu.

TALIESIN: All it needs is honey and brie.

LAURA: We could put food out in front of us!

MATT: Next week, pajamas and mimosas. What better
way to celebrate a Vecna arc in the Shadowfell?

LIAM: Bring your dog to work day!

TALIESIN: PJ's, mimosas, and very old puppies?

LIAM: And Charlie? Can Charlie come?

LAURA: I think it's necessary.

TALIESIN: Charlie can run Trinket.

MATT: So guys, thank you so much. We're back next
week. I want to give another big thank you to the

amazing crew and people here at Legendary/Geek and
Sundry that have been working almost around the

clock to make this set work, to make this table
work, to make the equipment work, the lighting,

the audio. We've taken all of your suggestions,
we've reached out to the community, to try and make

this as best and as comfortable as possible for us
and you guys. I know it's a work in progress, and

you'll watch things improve as we go, as we learn
and figure things out, so thank you for your

patience. But seriously, if you get the
opportunity, show some appreciation for the people

who've been working really hard to try and improve
this experience for everyone involved. Thank you

guys, you're all so amazing.

(cheers)

MATT: In the meantime, I want to tell you all, I
love you very much. Happy 101st episode. And is it

Thursday yet? Good night, guys!

[art]