MATT: Hello everyone, and welcome to tonight's
episode of Critical Role, where a bunch of us

nerdy-ass voice actors sit around and play
Dungeons and Dragons and can't listen to a count

off screen when we're going to go live. But I
appreciate the effort guys.

LIAM: Nobody could hear me say, "Scaramucci, I fucked
up."

MATT: I did. Don't do that. His life's hard enough
right now. All right. Anyway, bringing this back

in, thank you for joining us. We'll pick up here
in a minute for the actual story, but first we

have some quick announcements. No, not Siri.
Announcements. Come on. She's all right. First and

foremost, tonight's episode is sponsored by our
friends at Puzzle Quest. Magic: the Gathering.

Samuel, you wanna talk about this?

SAM: Hi, everyone. It's me, Sam Riegel. Tonight,
we're pleased to be sponsored by Magic: the

Gathering - Puzzle Quest, which you can find at
bit.ly/magicrole. Guys, the hour of devastation is

at hand in Magic: the Gathering - Puzzle Quest. Check
out new card abilities like Eternalize and the

latest Planeswalker to arrive: Elspeth, the Sun's
champion! Not second or third place; the Sun's

champion! Jump into daily live events where you
can compete alongside your coalition for top

placement or head over-- I don't know any of these
words.

(laughter)

SAM: Or for top placement or head over to the all
new training grounds to perfect your deck! With

over 150 new cards, you can craft an all new
strategy to dominate the leaderboards! Magic: the

Gathering - Puzzle Quest: 50% Magic, 50% match
three RPG, 100% Puzzle Quest! Download on the App

Store or Google Play. Okay. So typically, when
Puzzle Quest is our sponsor I do a little quiz

with Taliesin. Today I'm going to throw it to Liam
O'Brien, just to mix it up. The theme of tonight's

quiz is: Is this a Magic: the Gathering card or a
Kama Sutra position?

(laughter)

SAM: Black Lotus.

LIAM: That is Kama Sutra.

SAM: That is Magic: the Gathering.

MARISHA: A classic! That is the world's most
famous Magic: the Gathering card!

SAM: Reverse cowgirl.

LIAM: Magic: the Gathering.

MATT: Strangely, yeah. White deck.

SAM: She Wolf.

LIAM: She Wolf is Magic: the Gathering.

SAM: No, that's--

LIAM: God damn it!

(laughter)

SAM: Lone Wolf.

LIAM: That's Magic: the Gathering. I'm just doing
B on every question.

SAM: Illicit Auction.

LIAM: That's Magic: the Gathering.

SAM: You're correct! The Angry Pirate.

LIAM: That's a Sam Riegel original.

SAM: That's a Kama Sutra. Correct, Liam O'Brien.
Maybe two more. Two more. The Curled Angel.

LIAM: That's so close to another phrase. Let's
call that the Kama Sutra.

SAM: Correct! The Mud Hole.

LIAM: (high voice) Magic: the Gathering?

SAM: Correct!

(cheering)

SAM: The last one, last one: Excavation.

LIAM: Ew!

SAM: It's both.

(laughter)

SAM: Marvel Puzzle Quest! No! Magic: the Gathering
- Puzzle Quest

MATT: Yay, Puzzle Quest! This time Magic. Well
done, Sam. Well done, Liam!

TRAVIS: I was educated.

MATT: All right, moving on. Laura, we had 
some updates you said as far as merch goes?

LAURA: Merchandise!

TRAVIS: She's playing with her giant trash bag
of dice.

LAURA: I just finished organizing it, you guys.
Okay. I wanted to give you guys some updates on

some merch items. Those amazing posters? They will
be sent out in a week. I think. Yes. They will be

sent out in a week, because they're in the
warehouse now, ready to get shipped. I've gotten a

lot of messages asking where are the aprons? And
the reason that they're not shipped yet is because

we ended up selling so many that the manufacturer
didn't have enough cloth to make the aprons, so

then there was a backlog of that. So they're
done, and they're about to get to the warehouse so

you'll be getting your aprons in a couple weeks,
and then we'll start getting them, so that's

solid. Also, we have these awesome necklaces.
Also, some other stuff.

SAM: Nice and vague.

MATT: Things are there. (laughs) Thank you, Laura.
Let's see, next up. GenCon live. We are at the

tail end of any available tickets for the show. So
if you haven't got one yet and you're still

planning to be around or near Indianapolis for
GenCon and want to come see, get it quickly. We're

about to close that out. Looking forward to seeing
everyone there who's coming, it's going to be fun

and depending on the next couple episodes, I'm real
curious to where it ends up when we get to

GenCon.

LAURA: So it's going to be a canon episode?

MATT: Oh, it's a canon episode. It's going to be
the next episode.

LAURA: What if we all die at the live show?

SAM: If one of us dies tonight, do we not go to
GenCon?

TRAVIS: Yeah, pretty much.

MATT: Well, we'll put you in the front row.

(groaning)

TRAVIS: If you die, we will lower you from above
like an angel on a fly reel.

MATT: On the Peter Pan wire setup?

TRAVIS: With some asshole swinging you from side
to side.

MATT: Just sending you across the audience.

TRAVIS: (yelling) I want to get down, I can't feel
my legs!

MATT: Make an acrobatics check!

LIAM: It's going to be so fucking great.

MATT: So yes. Look forward to that.

LAURA: I like how we all assumed it was going to
be Sam that was dead and flying above the

audience.

MATT: All right. So also, the Critical Role
podcast. We have up to episode 30 now available.

Next batch went up, so those of you who are coming
on the podcast audio version of our crazy story,

those episodes 21 to 30 are available for you now.
Talks Machina, once again on Tuesdays. We'll have

a discussion about this episode next week and on
Tuesday at 7:00pm Pacific, with our wonderful host

Brian Foster on Twitch and Alpha.

LIAM: Is next week the one that they're off,
though?

MATT: Are they off next week?

LIAM: I think they're taking a week off, no? The
week after?

MARISHA: Both? Both. The week after Gencon we will
be streaming the panel that we did at GenCon. I

feel like Brian is going to be in New York for
Ashley's birthday right now. He flew out today.

MATT: So not next Tuesday, but the Tuesday after.

LAURA: Wait, no! I thought he'll be back by then.
No?

LIAM: He'll chime in on Twitter.

MATT: Follow Talks Machina on Twitter for updates
about what's happening next episode.

TRAVIS: We planned this out way in advance.

MATT: Last couple things: Sagas of Sundry. The
final episode of Dread is now up on Alpha, and

we'll see the finale of that crazy, crazy ride.

TRAVIS: It's so good. It's scurry.

MARISHA: We've got our first Sagas of Sundry
tattoo! It's beautiful and gorgeous. I love it.

It's amazing.

TRAVIS: I watch the show with the lights on
'cause it creeps me out.

MATT: Good. We didn't have that option. And also
the new episode of CelebriDND is up as well, where

I got to dungeon master wonderful John Bradley who
you may know as Sam Tarley on Game of Thrones.

Also, had a wonderful guest Laura and Liam joined
us for that. It was a lot of fun, so check it out.

I believe our last announcement today is the
birthday of one fabulous goliath barbarian.

TRAVIS: Once a year, y'all. Once a year.

MATT: Travis Willingham, happy birthday, buddy.

LAURA: Happy birthday, bb!

TRAVIS: I can't die today, right?

SAM: Where's the cake?

TRAVIS: It's in my stomach.

LAURA: There's no cake, y'all.

SAM: But where's the cake?

TRAVIS: I mean, that was awesome.

MARISHA: I have a little cake eraser. Do you want
the cake eraser for the game? Hang on. Where is

it? Where did I put it? Happy birthday!

TRAVIS: It's a little Pike cake!

MATT: And on that, enjoy your cake. And let's
bring us into tonight's episode of Critical

Role.

[dramatic music]

MATT: And welcome back.

TRAVIS: We didn't say anything.

MATT: No, you didn't. I was waiting and there was
absolute silence. Wow. This is what it's like to have

respect.

(laughter)

MARISHA: 107 episodes later.

MATT: That's all it took. And it's the last time it'll
ever happen.

LIAM: Lulling you into a false sense of security.

MATT: So, anyway, last we left off, Vox Machina,
in facing the terrible threat of Vecna returned to

physical form, sent you all through this conflict
to seek audiences with a number of the deities of

Exandria. After getting blessings and fragments of
the essence of three of the gods, you discovered

that Vecna had completed the Ritual of Seeding and
ascended into godhood. However, discussing with

Ioun, the Knowing Mistress, it will take a little
bit of time for him to both understand the extent

of his power, to claim his domains, and expand
beyond his current condensed avatar form, so time

is of the essence. Not to mention that in order to
claim the full strength, there needs to be a

showing of power and faith to gather attention and
faith from the masses.

So with that information, you also imbued upon
Grog the ability to blacksmith and Percival the

knowledge of the construct of these Divine
Trammels, things that could possibly be used to

seal and have been used previously to seal a god
as killing them is a very difficult and dangerous

thing. Retrieving this information, you discovered
that the place where these can be crafted is called

the Core Anvil. Once belonging to the All-Father,
the deity of construction, design and

craftsmanship, it resides beneath an underwater
volcano known as Scaldseat, off the shore of a city

called Shorecomb in Issylra. You also had a
fantastic little run-in with Vecna, recently,

taunting you all.

Last we left off, you had found yourself in
Vasselheim, went to the Trial Forge to speak with

Earthbreaker Groon, discovered what would be
required to attempt to make contact with Kord, and

you made communion with the Raven Queen, and in
declaring your complete faith in her she offered a

piece of her essence to give you the third seed
with which to make a third Divine Trammel, and

with you all falling asleep within Scanlan's
Magnificent Mansion, you cast True Polymorph on

yourself to take the form of a planetar and did
whatever you did in that form as you all went to

sleep that evening.

LIAM: Except that while he was checking out his
junk in the mirror-- heavenly junk-- I shut the

door behind Keyleth and I. I don't think we should
go another couple of days in silence.

MARISHA: Has it been days?

LIAM: Just barely.

MARISHA: Feels like an eternity.

LIAM: I know that you are angry, and I am just--
I'm sorry.

MARISHA: I was angry. I was very angry, and maybe
if we had this conversation yesterday, even, I

might be yelling that to your face right now. But
it's hard to be angry at bravery and selflessness.

I mean, we've always had the problem of you having
one too many ladies in your life, right? (laughs)

It's hard to compete with a god.

LIAM: I've done a lot of stupid things in my life,
and I've never had any regrets, really. I do know the

chance you took on me, and I've confirmed your
worst fears, and then some.

MARISHA: It's not your fault.

LIAM: Regardless, I am sorry, and I regret that
I'm not outright dead already and that you have to

stare at this walking pantomime of a life in front
of you, but Kiki, I'm grateful for the time I have

left to look on you, and I am grateful to fight
for your future. And I'm grateful for that chance

you took on me.

MARISHA: I wouldn't take it back. You taught me
how to take chances. (laughs) Can I ask you a

question? What exactly was the deal that you made
with the Raven Queen? Was it when we slew Vecna,

or defeated him? I have a feeling semantics are
becoming increasingly more important.

LIAM: She offered me a way back, and it was the
only way back. I wasn't coming back, not after

that. Not without her blessing.

MARISHA: Even if we found a way, you wouldn't take
it. To reverse the deal. I'm not asking. I'm just

confirming.

LIAM: I don't want to leave, but there are some
things that I will not test. Hey. I do have faith in

her. And I have faith in you and what you'll do. (sighs)
God, I feel so stupid.

MARISHA: It's fitting, really. You can protect
that plane. I'll be here to protect this one. I

mean, if these past few days have taught us
anything, it's death isn't the end. I just don't

want to forget. If Sprigg could forget the names
of his party members that he died alongside-- he

ran-- never mind. What's going to happen in a
hundred or hundreds or even a thousand years? I

don't want to forget this. What if there comes a
day when I don't even recognize the name Vox

Machina anymore?

LIAM: I don't believe that will happen. You're
going to live a long life. Yes. And you will love

again. And you will lead. And you will be loved,
because who cannot love you?

MARISHA: I can name a few.

LIAM: No one of any worth.

MARISHA: I'm grateful for you, and I always will
be. And I'm grateful for any second that we have

left. And I don't want to spend any more being
angry at you. And I'm sorry that I was.

LIAM: You don't want me to go?

MARISHA: (laughs) Of course not.

LIAM: Hey, I'm fucking cold. Will you give me a
hug?

MARISHA: Yeah. It's the weirdest thing, by the
way, you being cold. I mean, it's just something

to get used to.

LIAM: Yeah.

MARISHA: Yeah.

LIAM: I don't have any clever closer. I'm just
going to crawl into bed and go to sleep.

MATT: Okay. Both of you curl up and fall asleep.
The morning comes. You all come to consciousness

within Scanlan's Magnificent Mansion. And find
breakfast of various grains and oats and quinoa.

TALIESIN: Lentils.

TRAVIS: What do you mean lentils? What is that?
What is a lentil? Is it a leaf? Is it a bean?

TALIESIN: No one really knows, to be fair.

TRAVIS: Why on god's green earth is it even here?
I don't understand.

TALIESIN: Lentils are here to punish us.

TRAVIS: Really?

TALIESIN: Yes. We have done something terribly
wrong, and now we must eat of these.

TRAVIS: That makes sense an hour from now when I
get punished in the loo.

TALIESIN: We are punished by that.

MARISHA: I'm sorry. This head cold mixed with
crying is bad.

LAURA: It gets you, right?

MATT: Yeah, it's rough.

LAURA: Yeah, that's what happened to me that day.

MARISHA: It's the worst!

SAM: Well, your voice is super sexy tonight, so
that's good.

LAURA: (raspy singing) Smelly cat, smelly cat--

MARISHA: (raspy singing) What are they feeding you?

MATT: All right, so as you finish your meals in
the morning, prepare yourself for the actions of

the coming day, what do you wish to do?

LAURA: I don't fucking know.

SAM: Are we going to this volcano under the
water?

LAURA: Yeah, right? That's where we have to go.

SAM: We need to be able to swim.

TALIESIN: And we need to be immune to poison.

LAURA: Yes, so if we have a Heroes' Feast, that
will take care of one thing. And I have two

chalices because we never used the one.

SAM: We should save at least one for a certain
fight.

LAURA: Yes, obviously.

TRAVIS: You can make us breathe underwater,
right?

MARISHA: Yes, I can.

LAURA: All of us? Even Trinket?

MARISHA: (unsure) Yes?

LAURA: And Pike?

MATT: Well Pike, goes up-- yes, don't forget! "I
can prepare the feast for you guys. That way, you

"don't have to spend a spell of yours for it. As you guys
are on this mission to go make this-- I can be

"help-- I think I need to stay here for now to
shepherd both the people in my temple of the

"Everlight with whatever words I can keep them calm
under this chaos in the city."

LAURA: Oh no! Pike, but what if Vasselheim is
attacked?

MATT: "Then I can let you know. I also have a
Sending spell prepared, so if anything happens, I

"can let you know immediately. As long as you're on
this plane."

SAM: It's so convenient!

MATT: "That's what clerics are here for!" She
punches you in the shoulder.

TRAVIS: Can I have something of yours, at least
until we see each other again?

(sounds of distress)

MATT: "Of course, Grog!" And she comes up to you
and, "Let me see your axe real fast."

TRAVIS: Ooh, the Bloodaxe?

MATT: "Yeah!"

TRAVIS: There you go! Mary Poppins handbag.

MATT: She hefts it and takes a little bit of her
fading blue hair at the tip and carves off a

little piece of it, hands the axe back to you, and
very deftly braids it into a small braid, ties it

off, and hands it to you.

TRAVIS: (gasps) It's the sweetest thing ever.

MATT: "No, but seriously don't eat it, please."

LAURA: That's really creepy.

MATT: "Grog! No! No."

TRAVIS: I tie it onto my necklace.

MATT: Okay. "Please be safe. And if anything
happens, I'm going to let you know as soon as

"possible."

LIAM: Oh man, it's going to hurt not to have you
with us, though. Oh, well.

MATT: "You guys will be fine. Better we save our
strength for whatever's out there."

TRAVIS: Yeah, and if Vasselheim is attacked, you
don't go saving the city all by yourself.

LAURA: Seriously.

TRAVIS: I know what you're like.

MATT: "Why would I steal the fun from you?"

TRAVIS: That's what I thought.

MATT: "Okay!"

TRAVIS: All right. Bye, Pike.

LAURA: Wait no, she has to prepare the Heroes'
Feast for us before we say goodbye.

TRAVIS: Hi, Pike!

MATT: You hand her the chalice, and she prepares
the feast within the mansion, so what little bit

of for some of you may have been an unsatisfying
breakfast this morning is quickly taken over by

the fantastically tasting feast of such a holy
spread. Taking the hour to eat it, all of you guys

get the benefits of Heroes' Feast.

TRAVIS: No lentils, right?

MATT: There is a bowl of lentils for those who may
want it.

SAM: I had some.

(laughter)

MATT: All right, so as the Heroes' Feast says
here--

LAURA: Immune to fear and poison and advantage on
wisdom checks.

MARISHA: And you roll 2d10 extra.

TALIESIN: Wisdom saving throws.

MATT: I'm going to roll 2d10 for you guys.

LAURA: Do you guys want food now, or do you want
to wait until the break?

TRAVIS and MATT: Let's wait until the break.

TALIESIN: We'll take a slightly early break in the
long run.

MATT: Whoa! Two nines!

(cheering)

MATT: That's lucky. Okay, so there you go. That's
18 additional hit points.

LAURA: That can regenerate?

MATT: Yes. That's the maximum of your hit points
for the next 24 hours, so keep that in mind,

folks.

MARISHA: Yeah, dope!

LAURA: How long do your inspiring speeches last?

MARISHA: Oh, that is an excellent question. How
long do my speeches--

SAM: Said Kathleen Turner.

LIAM: Said Harvey Fierstein.

(laughter)

MARISHA: Said Katharine Hepburn.

MATT: Inspiring Leader. A creature can't gain
temporary hit points from this feat again until it

has finished a short or long rest. So you have
temporary hit points until your next long rest,

essentially.

MARISHA: Okay. So can I double up on that?

LIAM: Give us more hit points?

MATT: You can. It'll be temporary hit points on
top of that, yes.

MARISHA: Oh. Yeah.

SAM: We're probably not going to fight anything,
though.

MARISHA: Since my voice is completely shot, and I
don't want to do a speech.

TRAVIS: Yeah, but we need it.

MARISHA: I am going to do--

MARISHA and SAM: An interpretive dance!

(laughter)

MARISHA: Of us swimming through the volcano, and
then going underground and shielding ourselves,

and then fighting! And then Grog's forging the
trammels!

(enthusiastic a cappella music)

TRAVIS: Holy shit.

LIAM: Still shouted narration through it all.

(laughter)

MATT: Wow, that happened.

TALIESIN: I'm amazed that took over a hundred
episodes. I've been waiting for the interpretive

dance for a long time.

LAURA: Yay, how many did we get from that?

MATT: So everyone gets 18 temporary hit points,
right?

TALIESIN: Is that max goes up 18?

MATT: No, temporary hit points, so as soon as you
take damage, they go away from the temporary

first. Temporary never come back. Then you have
the maximum hit point bonus.

TALIESIN: So 18 max up and then an 18 on top of
that that goes away once you get hit.

LIAM: But do I get sneak attack damage, or is it
also a critical hit?

MATT: Raven Queen taketh away. All right, so as
you guys are all sitting there watching Keyleth

dance while she eats, while you're eating, it's a
unique display. You're prepared for the rest of

your day, Pike says goodbye to everybody, gives
you a hug. Says, "Be safe."

SAM: Pike, will you do me a favor, and will you
get word to Kaylie somehow?

MATT: "I can do that, yeah."

SAM: Tell her Dad's okay and saving the world
again.

MATT: She goes, "...Done!"

MARISHA: Hey, Pike?

SAM: I should have asked that long ago!

MATT: "Probably, yeah!"

MARISHA: Could you also do one of those to Tary?

MATT: "Right!"

SAM: Well, don't say, "Dad's okay, saving the world
again." That won't make any sense to him.

MARISHA: Tell him we're all alive.

LAURA: Tell him we love him, and that we're okay
for the time being.

SAM: Especially Scanlan. He's probably really
concerned.

MATT: (laughs) You see this secondary dull flash
and release of energy at her fingertips as she

finishes the glyph.

TALIESIN: Are we doing this now?

MATT: There we go, we have food now!

LAURA: We're doing it live! Can I have one slice
of breakfast pizza?

SAM: What is this, a restaurant?

TRAVIS: Jesus, what the fuck?

LAURA: He's like: hold on.

LIAM: Pelor, can I have one slice of breakfast
pizza, please?

(laughter)

MARISHA: This marker sucks balls!

MATT: So Pike makes her way toward her temple. You
guys are still within Scanlan's mansion, what are

you doing?

LAURA: Okay, I guess we should exit the mansion.
And then--

SAM: How are we traveling? And where are we
going?

TRAVIS: Do we Plane Shift?

LAURA: Above the water, over to the volcano. How
do we do this?

MARISHA: It's a bit away from Vasselheim, if I
remember. I did see a tree, right, that was near

the town?

MATT: Yep.

MARISHA: So yeah.

LAURA: Okay, so once we're there, do we know
exactly what we're doing?

SAM: We're diving down into the volcano, forging
some trammels.

LAURA: And the volcano's underwater. Is that what
the schtick is with it?

MATT: Yes. It's on the floor, and you can notice
it because across this open clear ocean, there is

one column of black smoke that emits from the
waves.

LAURA: So it's an active volcano that we're
diving into?

TALIESIN: Underwater.

LAURA: Solid.

MATT: Essentially.

SAM: One question. I have the infinite blessings
of Ioun's knowledge. I am a holy man. However, I'm

not exactly clear. Do we need those little peas to
make these trammels? And we have three of them.

We're not going to get more of these before we
forge the trams?

LAURA: I don't think there's time.

TRAVIS: Remember, Delilah was already down there?
She was in tunnels underground, right?

LAURA: Somewhere. We don't know where, exactly.

TRAVIS: We don't know if she's at this forge?

LAURA: No, we don't know if she's there, we don't know
if she's with Vecna.

MATT: The vision that you had, she was topside,
and there was snow.

MARISHA: Yeah, she was coming out of Thar
Amphala.

MATT: Well, tunnels that burrowed beneath the city
of Thar Amphala.

MARISHA: And she was coming out. She had both of
her eyeballs back, and was like, "Ooh, it's

"chilly." Bitch! Enjoying the winter snow.

LIAM: Two regular eyes?

MARISHA: Two regular eyes! Why do you think she
keeps coming back? (gasps) Oh no.

TRAVIS, LAURA, and LIAM: What?

TALIESIN: You're nervous about everything, is that
what we've come to?

MARISHA: I don't know, maybe she made a deal
similar to the deals we've made, but with Vecna.

TALIESIN: I would assume so.

MARISHA: I mean, if gods can give us their
blessing, why can't she have one?

SAM: We should really tip 10%.

LAURA: I know, at least!

SAM: You know, be really generous.

LAURA: Look at this! You guys!

TRAVIS: So we go. Right? Do we go to the shore and
then out into the ocean on a ship?

LAURA: We go to the shore, then we climb up the
volcano, then we dive into the volcano?

TRAVIS: The volcano is underneath the ocean.

LAURA: But there's smoke coming out of it!

TRAVIS: Underneath the ocean.

MARISHA: Yeah. A trail of black, sooty, bubbly
goodness.

TRAVIS: We've only talked about it for four hours;
it's okay.

LAURA: I thought maybe the top was coming out of
the water.

MATT: No, it's at the bottom of the ocean.
There are volcanoes underwater, and this one is

less burning smoke. It's the sulfuric gases and
poisonous fumes of the various reactions and

chemicals and pressure beneath.

TRAVIS: You never watched behind the scenes on
Titanic?

LAURA: I got it.

SAM: How do we get there?

TRAVIS: We go to the shore.

MARISHA: Well, I have a tree. I can get us there.

SAM: Okay. Let's do it.

MATT: So. With your things gathered, you all find
your way, I imagine it's not too far of a walk

from the Raven's Crest to a tree that is
functional for this spell. It's on the southern

border of the quarter that holds the Birthheart,
the orchards and various trees

there. You find yourselves a suitable tree, gather
yourselves, steel yourselves. Now that the morning

has come, the tension in the air of Vasselheim and
the word that spreads of some sort of looming

threat, though sourceless and directionless,
definitely has built this air of fear and rush for

preparation that surrounds you.

TRAVIS: I have a question, sorry.

MATT: Yes?

TRAVIS: Did Pike come with us to send us off?

MATT: I'll say sure! She walks you guys to the
tree.

TRAVIS: Pike? You know you have-- what's it called
you put on me one time? That Death Ward? Should we

put that on one of us before we go, just in case
it's super dangerous? One of the squishier ones?

Does someone want Death Ward, so if you go down--

SAM: Put it on Vax.

TRAVIS: Yeah, no.

LAURA: I think either Percy or I.

LIAM: Pass.

LAURA: You.

TALIESIN: You.

SAM: Oh god, just kiss already!

TALIESIN: We do.

SAM: Oh god! They do.

TRAVIS: Boulder-Parchment-Shears. Perfect
opportunity.

TALIESIN: Flip for it. Heads or tails?

MARISHA: Boulder-Parchment-Shears.

TRAVIS: Yeah, come on.

TALIESIN: Boulder-Parchment-Shears?

TRAVIS: One time. One, two, three, go!

MARISHA: Oh!

LAURA: You.

SAM: Boulder always wins.

MATT: "I can give it to a few people."

(laughter)

LAURA: Thanks, Pike! That's convenient.

MATT: "That's going to tap out my spells there.
I'm going to have to save some for Sending, just

"in case."

LAURA: Yes, of course.

TRAVIS: Those two.

SAM: Mr. and Mrs. de Rolo.

MATT: "Okay, this'll only last for eight hours, so
travel quickly."

TALIESIN: It's Mr. and Mrs. Vex, let's be fair.

TRAVIS: Thanks, Pike. I thought it might help.
Just in case.

MATT: "You, too?"

TRAVIS: Nope! Nope. I like a little danger in my
life.

LAURA: Is this going to be like the kraken fight?
Are we going to be underwater fighting again?

MARISHA: I hope not.

LAURA: You weren't there. We almost fucking died
because you weren't there with us, Scanlan. I

hated you at that moment.

LIAM: Water under the bridge. Water under the
kraken. We're on brighter horizons

MATT: As you guys are arguing, she leans forward
and beneath her breath finishes the incantation

with the Death Ward, and you, Vex'ahlia, it sounds
like a soft clinging of gentle metals in the back

of your head, and as it hits this warmth hits your
chest and then it sets in. It doesn't quite fade,

it's like having a localized blanket held to your
sternum. Who else would like one?

MARISHA: How many does she get?

MATT: I'll say for the purposes of this, she can
muster four.

LAURA: Scanlan.

LIAM: (raspy voice) How many does she get?

MARISHA: (mafia-style voice) How many you got?

TRAVIS: Do you want one?

MARISHA: Yeah.

LAURA: If you die, I'm going to be really upset.

TRAVIS: On my birthday? Come on! What are the
chances?

MARISHA: He's got that whole barbarian "knock me
down, I get back up again" thing.

LAURA: I get the fuck back up again! You're
Hercules Mulligan!

MARISHA: That's why he would be a rogue/barbarian,
I think!

MATT: So for those four that have marked it, you
have Death Ward, which lasts for eight hours. The

first time you drop to zero hit points, it brings
you to one, and then the spell fades.

All right. Pike sends you off with a wave and you
all step through the tree. You feel the

transitional burst of energy as the druidic magics
pull you from one living source to another, and

you all emerge on the outside of a tree that is
barely wide enough to sustain the doorway between

the two, and as you all gather on the outskirts,
you turn around and you can see this

somewhat-leafless, living through the winter, but
not the prettiest tree you've seen. The doorway

portal closes behind you.

Glancing around you, there is a light snowfall and
you can see slush and snow gathered, dirty, along

the edges of the streets. You are on the outskirts
of the city of Shorecomb. Population-wise, it

can't be more than a few thousand people at most.
It looks like there's a very healthy fish trade.

To the immediate right of you, there's a
cliffside, maybe 200 feet from the edge of the

town where there are carts going to and from. You
can the large crane carrying large containers and

large nets filled with caught fish from the bottom
of the cliffside. People around noticed you emerge

from a tree, and you can see about four or five of
the various peasants and working folk stop in

their tracks and stare at you, frozen.

LIAM: I know, weird, right? Really weird.

MARISHA: Hi!

MATT: "This way, James." And he grabs his little
kid's hand and the kid is slack-jawed watching you

as he drags him off to the side. People start
walking again and still glancing over their

shoulder, they go about their business, keeping a
very close eye.

MARISHA: Maybe I should have found a tree less in
the center of things.

TALIESIN: I'd rather be here.

MATT: It's not the center of town, thankfully.
Still off to the side, but you did catch the eye

of a few folk.

LIAM: I mean, you still transported us a long way.
That's commendable.

TALIESIN: How would one go about finding out if
you're being watched via magical means? Is there a

way to do that other than if one is not a magic
user? Is that a perception check?

MATT: No, there are actual spells designed for
that.

LAURA: Are there spells designed to mask you?

MARISHA: Yeah. I don't think any of us have them.

SAM: To mask you from scrying?

LAURA: Yeah, so people can't see us. Do you know
of anything like that, Scanlan?

SAM: I've heard of such things, but I don't
currently have one.

TRAVIS: Cool.

TALIESIN: Just curious.

TRAVIS: Good question.

LAURA: Yeah, because Vecna's fucking watching us.

TRAVIS: Right now?!

LAURA: Yeah, all the fucking time.

TRAVIS: You're sure?

LAURA: Yeah.

TALIESIN: Yeah, right over there.

TRAVIS: Do we take a boat now? Or do we find some
dolphins and ride out majestically?

LAURA: Are we on the water?

MARISHA: Can we make our way to the shoreline?

MATT: Okay, it's a couple hundred feet to get to
the edge of the cliff. And these are sheer cliffs

that drop off for 150, 200 feet or so before it
hits very hard pebbled beaches. These aren't sandy

beaches.

MARISHA: I stop everybody, saying, be careful. It
looks like it could be a thousand feet, which is

deceiving.

TRAVIS: You know, you're only talking to yourself.
We all know.

MARISHA: A thousand feet is so long.

LIAM: So we're on cliffs facing the ocean, right
now?

MATT: Yes, you guys are at the edge of the cliff.
You look down, and there are the rocky beaches,

there are a number of large docks that jut out from
the rocky beach, and you can see there are

about five or six varying degrees of rickety
winding wooden staircases that are built into the

cliffside that lead from the top edge of the cliff
down to the beach below. You can see a lot of

workers are currently hauling large sacks, small
crates and boxes, things that are too small to

bring on the large winding cranes that they have
on the edge as well. There are ships coming, there

are ships going. It looks like this is a decent
trade stop for cities along the shoreside here in

Issylra.

LAURA: What do our elven eyes see? Can we see the
smoke?

MATT: Make a perception check.

LAURA: That was a Legolas reference, in case you
were wondering.

LIAM: I'm not familiar with that reference.

LAURA: A perception check?

MATT: Yes.

LAURA: 20.

MATT: 20. Glancing out at this distance, the sky
itself is very cloudy, very gray. It's a very gray

day. It's cold, it's chilly, the wind that's blowing
is very faint, but it's enough to the point

where snow is falling. There is a very faint mist
in the distance. Either a storm is coming or a

storm has passed that's preventing you from seeing
any sign of a glimmer of the smoke. So you're not

entirely certain the direction.

MARISHA: Can I tell if the storm is coming or the
storm has passed?

MATT: Make a nature check.

LIAM: And there are people about?

MATT: There are people about and some of them are
just passing, not paying mind, and few of them

stop and glance at these very well-dressed, very
dangerous-looking figures that have now just

walked up and look out past the ocean, but no
one's broaching any conversation. They look like they're

more making a wide berth or keeping a very
untrusting eye on you as they walk past.

LIAM: Druid's doing interpretive dance again.

MATT: So what did you get?

MARISHA: I'm a motherfucking human barometer!

MATT: What did you roll?

TRAVIS and MARISHA: Natural 20.

MATT: Oh shit! Okay.

MARISHA: Yeah. I'm really good at the check.

MATT: You get the sense that a lot of the snow
that was in the street when you got there and the

slush was from a storm that recently passed. And
the clouds and the fog that you see in the

distance, it looks like it's blowing away.

LIAM: You there, little girl.

MATT: Okay. (laughing) Strangely, no little girl
is working at this dock. However, the person you

did see that looked like a little girl is actually
a generally short fellow who has a wrap over the

top of his head, a swollen cheek where it looks
like he might have some sort of a tooth infection

who spins around. It's not a bonnet. It's a crusty
looking fisherman, who is like, "Who are you

"calling a little girl?"

LIAM: Oh, my bad, fellow! Sorry, as you can tell,
we're not from around here. Visiting. Yeah, I had

a couple of questions. One, there's a
volcano just off this coast somewhere, right?

MATT: "Aye."

LIAM: Do you know where it is? Could you point to
it?

TALIESIN: Was that affirmative or surprise?

MATT: Points out to the ocean.

LAURA: Is he pointing in a general direction? I
look where he's pointing. Can I see anything?

MATT: No.

LAURA: Damn it.

LIAM: Are there boats for rent, for hire?

MATT: "Maybe? Yes? I mean--"

LIAM: All right, thank you, I think that's all I
needed from you, okay.

LAURA: I pull out a piece of gold. Do you know
where the volcano is?

MATT: "Yes. What, do you think I'm a dog? What is
this kind of treatment?"

LAURA: Do you want to make some gold?

MATT: "Yes! I'd love to make some gold!"

LAURA: Then can you tell me where the fucking
volcano is?

MATT: "There we go, straight questions." He rubs
his swollen cheek side. You can see his teeth are

graying and yellow. There's a little bit of blackened
decay at the edges, but he grins a little bit

at the sight of the gold. "I need a little more
than that paltry sum."

LAURA: Paltry sum? How much gold do you see every
day? I pull out another piece. Is this enough?

MATT: "Make it five, and I'll introduce you to my
docksmen."

LAURA: All I want to know is where the volcano
is.

MATT: "But you're not looking for a ship to rent,
right? Like he said?"

LAURA: No.

MATT: "All right. (sniffles) Volcano is that way."
And he points out. You see he glances over, he

lines up where you can see a couple of larger
rocks that are breaking out from the shore surface

maybe 20 or 30 feet out from where the pebble
beach ends and meets the water line. He's lining

up his arm and, "That way, about five miles."

MARISHA: Five miles.

TRAVIS: Hey, use your elven eyes, see if you can
see it.

LAURA: Yeah, I'm going to look real hard. We're a
thousand feet up.

MATT: Still, it's too hard to see right now.

LAURA: Can't we spell ourselves out there?

MARISHA: Well.

TALIESIN: We might want that later.

MARISHA: I mean, we could. We can.

LAURA: We should rent a ship.

TALIESIN: If we get a ship, then when it's all
over, we have a way out.

TRAVIS: Otherwise, we're walking five miles
underwater.

MARISHA: I would rather save my 8th-level Animal
Shapes in case we need to bail.

LAURA: All right, here's three more gold. How
about that introduction?

MATT: "That I can muster." Puts the coins in a
little pouch in the side and buttons it up and

locks it. "All right. Follow me."

SAM: What's your name, young lady?

MATT: "Fenna."

SAM: Fenna. Pleasure to make your acquaintance.

MATT: "You as well, lass."

MARISHA: I love Fenna in my salads.

MATT: Leads you guys back down one of the winding
stairways, and you have to wait at certain

moments. There are certain areas where it
switchbacks, and it's open. You would think it's a

platform for looking out, but it's more for
letting people get past, and for the pathways up

and down, it gets narrow on the actual stairs. But
eventually, you make your way down to where these

docks are, and there are three large buildings
that are the hubs of most people checking in,

checking out. They have a number of docksmen that
are keeping tabs on what's going in and out of the

dock, and what materials are being shipped in,
taxing those that are using it temporarily,

general business in the vicinity. He leads you
over. "Now then, I'm going to introduce you to

"Senth. She can rent you something, at the very
least. I recommend not letting that one in. She

"has a thing against the smaller folk."

LIAM: Oh shit.

SAM: Oh. I'm being racisted against?

MATT: "Look, I'm not-- You seem like a very fine
lady."

SAM: Touché, Fenna. Touché.

MATT: "But I know Senth well, and if you want to
make a good impression, maybe keep her outside."

LAURA: You're not the tallest yourself, you know.

MATT: Stretches his lower back with a couple of
cracks and snaps. The hunched man gets about four,

five inches of height and is almost cresting about
Vax height.

TRAVIS: Look, Scanlan. The necklace is really nice
on the inside. I can vouch for it.

SAM: I'm not going into the necklace.

TRAVIS: Why not? New experiences, right? Whatever
it takes to achieve the mission.

LAURA: Fuck it! Fuck it, I'm not disguising him
because of what he looks like! Fuck that.

SAM: Are you standing up for me?

LAURA: Of course I am!

MARISHA: I would like to argue, he just disguised
himself for a solid year.

LAURA: I don't care. That was a different reason,
and if your fucking dock mistress is such a bitch

that she won't give us a good deal because of him
then we'll find someone else.

MATT: Fair enough. I would also recommend you
lower your voice. We're right outside of her

door.

MARISHA: Wait, what's her name?

MATT: Senth.

MARISHA: Senth.

SAM: It's really easy. I don't mind putting on the
hat.

MARISHA: It is the principle, but do we have time
for principles?

TALIESIN: We have time for principles immediately
afterwards, when we come back.

LIAM: We never have before. Why start now?

LAURA: I mean, it's up to you, but I don't think
you should do it.

SAM: No, let's stand on principle.

TALIESIN: Oh no.

MATT: "Are we done here?"

TALIESIN: Oh, you're still here.

MATT: "Good day."

TRAVIS: Thanks for your time.

MATT: Hobbles off and makes his way back up the
stairs. So you come outside to this one dock hub.

It's a modest two-story building looks like it has
like a watch tower second story and the bottom

floor is much larger. The door is currently
closed. The wood looks a little sea-rotted. You

can see the edges of the wood are curling and dark
and perpetually damp. Little bits of green moss

and various fungus are starting to gather at the
very edges of the building, but it seems to be

standing and has been there for a while.

TALIESIN: (knocking sound)

MATT: You knock on the door. A voice inside goes
"Come in."

TALIESIN: (door creak) I don't know why I made the
sound effect.

MATT: That's okay. As you push the door open,
glancing inside, there's general gray dull

daylight coming from the cloudy sky, but
there are also a few oil lanterns hanging in

different places. You can see stacks of maps or
other heavy pieces of parchment that are curled up

and tied off in sections. There are small crates,
most of them empty, that are scattered about the

entranceway here, and as you enter the building
you watch as a very tall, thin, lanky female

half-orc spins around across the room with a
singular monocle that is very, very intense to

make one eye look really big over the other. Spins
around; sides of the head shaved and the rest of

it slicked back against the head with a little bit
of a light brown shock against the black to one

side. Dressed fairly nice but you can see the
clothing at an immediate glance is nice upfront

and then tatters at the bottom. Spins around.
"Yes?"

TALIESIN: We were hoping to charter a ship at
great expedience to about five miles off the coast

to the plume of smoke and the underwater volcano.

MATT: You watch as the one eye, moving
independently of the other, glances and looks each

of you very quickly up and down and then slicks
back into place. "That can be arranged, yes."

TALIESIN: Excellent.

MATT: "How long would you wish to charter this
ship?"

TRAVIS: Three days?

LAURA: Sure, yeah, probably be less than that but
three days, sure.

MATT: Do you have a crew?

TALIESIN: No, we would need to--

SAM: Can any of us sail?

TRAVIS: Not if we want to live.

TALIESIN: We would like to charter a crew also to
maintain. We're going to be doing a bit of

underwater search and rescue, so.

MATT: "Very well then."

SAM: Will that be possible?

MATT: "Yes."

LAURA: Great. Wonderful.

MATT: "Three days' rental including a crew on
board. That'll run you approximately 150 gold

"pieces. I require, to be in case you lose the ship
or don't return with it, an additional 500 to hold

"in case you lose the ship. So a grand total of 650
up front with 500 to be returned upon your

"return."

LAURA: Of course, and you have something to sign.
I'm sure Percival can draw something up.

MATT: "Oh, but of course. I would not dream of
allowing such a thing without a paper trail."

TALIESIN: That will do.

MATT: "Follow me." A quick contract is drawn up.
You take a glance over it, Percival. Seems very

thorough but nothing beyond what was requested and
basically if the ship is not returned all money is

forfeit. When the ship is returned, a very intense
investigation and perceived state of the ship is

going to be requested from an appraiser to see if
any damage was taken. Yeah, it's essentially like

one of those seedy car rental places that the
contract says they will ding you for every

damage.

LAURA: How much do ships normally cost?

TALIESIN: I don't know.

LAURA: 600 is very low.

SAM: I feel like we've rented a ship before.

LAURA: But it was far less than this.

TALIESIN: It was far less than this, but at this
point I'm saying let's blow the money.

LAURA: Yes, of course. I agree, but an entire ship
I feel like would be more than 600.

TRAVIS: We priced it out once before, and it was like
30,000.

LAURA: Yeah, so she's giving us a really good
deal.

SAM: Maybe it's a shitty ship.

MARISHA: I mean, that's fine. I'd prefer a shitty
ship if it's cheaper.

MATT: Slaps the contract down in front. "Have we a
deal?"

TALIESIN: I don't mind.

MATT: "Very well."

SAM: Would you take this as a deposit? I give her
this platinum bracelet with a sapphire that I

have. We'll get it back when we return the ship.
Oh, wait.

LAURA: Maybe you should amend that in the
contract.

MATT: The one eye is still looking at you. The
other is (buzzing) in front of the bracelet. "I

"find this acceptable in our agreement."

SAM: But wait, it just occurred to me as I was handing
that over, we need platinum, don't we? That was

platinum, wasn't it?

LAURA: Yeah.

SAM: Maybe we'll just do gold instead. Sorry, can
I have that back? Sorry.

LIAM: Smooth operator.

(laughter)

MATT: Flings it back and there is an expression
of, "Of course a gnome would do that." If this

was a Telltale game it would say, "Her hatred for
gnomes deepens."

LAURA: That's fine. (bling)

MATT: "All right." Immediately puts it into a
small shelf, writes down some remarks on it. "Very

"well, I will show you to the Shore Shanty. Follow
me, please."

LAURA: Oh, it sounds elegant.

TRAVIS: Shanty's a fancy name for a mansion,
right?

MATT: Leads you out to one of the far end docks,
and there are a number of decent ships and larger

fishing ships, some faster-travel ships, some long
boats. You see one galleon-sized ship that's just

left and taken away, and on the far end there is
one of the shittiest tugboat-sized boats you've

seen in a while. Scanlan, you've seen boats like
this and they're largely used for either

relatively cheap and relatively quick messenger
services. A courier ship, if you will. That's

about it.

SAM: Do we need a bigger vessel?

LAURA: I have a feeling you don't believe this
ship will make it back, do you?

MATT: "Well, that would not behoove me; I wish to
keep my ships at dock where they're safe."

LAURA: Of course. Yep.

MARISHA: She's got a high-ass insurance policy on
this bitch.

TALIESIN: Clever.

MATT: "The crew is included. Go say hello. Hope to
see you back in a few days." Whips around and

walks her way back.

TRAVIS: Did you see her eye? It didn't move. How
does that happen?

SAM: She seemed very pleasant. Don't know what 
Fenna was talking about. Shall we away? Do we

need to make any preparations before we go?

TALIESIN: I think we're ready.

SAM: Do we have all of the materials we need?

TALIESIN: Did we get the platinum from the bank,
if I recall? I'm trying to remember.

MATT: Yeah, we'll say that that was your intent
last time, that you made the conversion to

platinum.

TALIESIN: We would've platinumed.

TRAVIS: Let's meet the crew.

MARISHA: Oh boy.

TRAVIS: How many crew are there?

MATT: There are three. Two of them appear to be
the crustiest barnacles-- The gentleman that you

met earlier, Fenna, looks like the brother of
these two that mated. That really lived the life.

Both of these men that are inside, that're playing
cards hunched over the table, can't be younger

than their early sixties. One of them has a big,
thick, gnarled white beard that darkens at the

tips which you can only imagine, as most hair
tends to get lighter at the tips, means it's

crusted with stuff. They're both wearing general
seafaring garb and tattered clothing. They're

muscular. Their skin is very tanned. One of them's
wearing a heavy knitted cap that folds back onto

itself and rests on his shoulder to the side. They
are both playing cards and they look over. "I

"guess it's time to work." Takes the cards, pulls
them up from the table. "All right, where we

"going?"

LAURA: You strapping young lads are taking us out
to the volcano.

TRAVIS: Yeah, Scaldseat.

MATT: Both look at each other. "All right, let's
wake up Santy."

MARISHA: Santy? Shanty.

MATT and SAM: Santy.

TRAVIS: The name of the boat is the Sea Shanty,
but the captain is Santy.

MATT: Santy of the Shanty. Technically, this is
Captain Santy of the Shore Shanty.

LAURA: The Shore Shanty?

MATT: Yeah. It's a mouthful.

LAURA: Captain Santy of the Shore Shanty? I love
it!

MATT: You watch as this large gentleman walks over
and slams his fist on this small, wooden-- ugh, my

brain isn't working. Thank you, a hatch in the
ground. "We've got customers." And you hear this

rustling beneath and all of a sudden the hatch
slams up, and barreling out from underneath you

see the drunkest, most unshaven, unwashed, gnarled
goliath you've ever seen. No facial hair, but bits

of frizzled dark hair in the back, which is
interesting. Very few goliaths grow hair. Now

what's interesting about this, too, is the
size isn't as large as you height-wise, but width

is about matching yours, so this is a bowling ball
of a goliath. Steps up on the top. (grunts)

LAURA: Only taller.

LIAM: A large Danny DeVito.

MATT: Actually, yeah, that's a good point. But if
Danny DeVito also was doing Iron Man competitions

for a number of years and then let himself go, so
he has the bulk of the muscle underneath but

then-- Yeah. Doesn't say a word, just looks at you
all and then walks out onto the deck of the ship.

LAURA: Great.

TRAVIS: Can I look down into the hatch where he
came from? Can I see anything?

MATT: Make a perception check.

LIAM: We're just going from point A to point B.
This is just what we need.

TRAVIS: Two.

MATT: It is dark, but you can smell the rum.

TRAVIS: There's rum down there. Down there? There
is rum.

MARISHA: Well, we have five miles ahead of us.

TRAVIS: Let's get shit-housed. Who cares what our
responsibilities are?

LAURA: How long would it take to go five miles on
this fabulous ship?

MATT: Well, one of the two older gentlemen that
were there, the one that knocked on the hatch,

goes, (hums). Sticks his hand out the side of the
doorway, "Maybe two hours? Three hours?"

MARISHA: Ugh. No. I'm going to go fix with that.
Whatever. You know what I'm saying. (wind noises)

TRAVIS: We haven't even left the dock yet.

MATT: They pull the sail up, they get everything
ready, they go ahead and undock from the dock,

pull up anchor, and the general wind, because it's
cliffside here, the wind is pretty strong right

here at the bay, so immediately the sail billows
open and the ship takes off. And they begin to

curve in the direction, loosely, of where you were
pointed earlier.

MARISHA: After those initial winds, I take them
and keep us going for a little bit.

LAURA: I'm going to keep an eye on where the
little guy said the volcano was and try to make

sure our drunk captain is taking us to the right
place.

TRAVIS: After all, we are going on a three-hour
tour.

MARISHA: Actually, it should be only about half an
hour, now!

SAM: Ooh! There's sound effects, first of all.
Appreciate the sound effects. If we're going on a

three-hour tour, I demand to know who's Gilligan,
who's the Skipper, millionaire and his wife. The

movie star--

TALIESIN: Ginger.

SAM: Ginger, yeah.

MARISHA: Well, then there's the Professor and Mary
Ann. Yeah. Well, you may be the Professor. So

maybe you're Mary Ann. Does that make me Ginger?

LIAM: Well, wait. Wouldn't you be Thurston Howell
III?

TALIESIN: I feel like I would really be Thurston.
I feel like Thurston's better.

MARISHA: Yeah. Actually, yeah.

LAURA: You're Mary Ann, you're Professor.

LIAM: This is going to be very helpful against
Vecna.

MATT: You're the crazy monkey on the island that
kept fucking shit up.

SAM: Little buddy!

MATT: All right. As you set sail, the wind picks
up, speed is enhanced and you gather at this rate

probably in under two hours you'll probably make
it to the destination with the help of the Air

Ashari--

MARISHA: It's a 2nd-level spell. Gust of Wind.

MATT: So as it guides on, Captain Santy stands at
the front of the ship glancing out, this giant

square jaw just nestled right into where the pecs
meet up beneath the thick sweater that's almost

hanging off the arms at this point. No cap,
balding head with the scraggly hair in the back,

and just looks off in the distance. The rest of
the two are just sitting back where there are

various jugs of some unseen liquid, keeping tabs on the
sail. It's a very leisurely, lackadaisical energy

on this ship.

LIAM: How many feet, I guess, is this ship from
front to back?

MATT: Front to back, I'd say it's about 25 feet.

SAM: We're crammed on this thing.

MATT: This is a tiny ship. It's 25 to 30 feet.

LAURA: There's no way to go any faster on this? Is
there no way to go faster, Captain?

MATT: Captain? You say this to the captain? He
goes--

LAURA: Do you go out to this volcano often?
Lovely.

MARISHA: Santy is so wise.

TRAVIS: Why do you say that?

MARISHA: He sees the sea. Look at him.

TALIESIN: We can all see the sea. It's right
there.

MARISHA: Santy of the Shanty seas sees the sea.

MATT: And he points out and you glance out at
where Santy of the Shore Shanty is, and you can see

in the distance there's a little line of dark that
is rising out of the ocean.

LAURA: Oh, you found it.

TALIESIN: Santy of the Shore Shanty spotted--

TRAVIS: I will throw something.

MARISHA: Do you think Santy of the Shore Shanty
sells sea shells?

TALIESIN: Surely not.

MATT: Rocks fall. Everyone dies.

Quickly enough, you begin to approach and you can
now see what was a thin column is now a fairly large

billowing stream of dark fume that you can see as
the waves get larger and larger the

further out you go. Certain swells, some of it
breaks up and it chains and snakes upward, based

on how it's finding its way to the surface.
Eventually, you get within maybe 30, 40 feet of

where it breaks the surface there, and the sails
fall into loose and are tied around the bottom,

anchor is thrown off the side, chain is let down,
and then eventually the captain turns back and--

LAURA and SAM: All right.

TRAVIS: Jeez. Hold on. I saw you drop anchor. Do
you have an idea of how deep it is here?

MATT: Glances over the side.

LAURA: Very deep. Is your chain long enough for
your anchor to hit bottom? Cool.

LIAM: I'm sorry do you-- do you talk, ever?

MATT: As soon as you say that question, the two
other older gnarled gentlemen on the ship go

(noises of warning). Captain is just staring at
you. (spits) Spits on the ground before you.

MARISHA: I see you're also skilled in interpretive
dance. You're very good.

TRAVIS: Oh shit. The ship will be gone when we
come back up.

LIAM: I don't wanna waste time on the gnome business.
Let's just go on.

SAM: Let's do this.

MARISHA: Water Breathing!

LAURA: Oh, and Trinket!

MARISHA: And Trinket. (poof)

LAURA: I had him in the necklace because it was
such a tiny little boat, but now he's out.

MATT: Yeah. All right. With that, you all have
water breathing.

LAURA: Oh wait, can he swim? He's good. He did it
before, right?

MATT: Yeah. He's as good at swimming as half of
your party.

LAURA: He's an expert now after the kraken fight.

SAM: What?

TALIESIN: I'm so glad I don't have to do that. You
just do it for me. It's very nice.

MARISHA: Keyleth uses Alter Self to give herself
the gill hands. The webbed fingers again. That was

cool.

TRAVIS: You got to do a proper paddy entry into
the water. (splash)

MATT: Perfect. As each of you make your way into
the water (splashing). You can smell, by the way,

the fumes. Because you see the dark color
of it, you immediately envision or at least

instinctively prepare for the smell of fire smoke
or a fireplace. As soon as it hits you, it's a

very acrid, sharp metallic smell with hints of
sulfur and other chemicals that burn the inside of

your nose and sinuses immediately.

LIAM: In the water, going up our noses?

MATT: It's the proximity. Being near, you can
smell occasionally as the wind blows through, a

whiff gets to you. You all make your way under the
surface and begin to swim down, following with

your vision where the source of this dark column
of fume is.

TRAVIS: Do we have good visibility?

MATT: It's all right.

TRAVIS: 40 feet? 60 feet?

MATT: I'd say about 60 feet or so before it gets a
little murky.

TALIESIN: I think I've still got one more charge
on the flashlight, if I recall.

MATT: Okay.

LAURA: The red light?

TALIESIN: Yeah.

MATT: All right, so you guys make your way... down
below. Who's leading this? I should get a marching

order for underwater, by the way.

LIAM: I will go ahead.

LAURA: I'm useless and Percy's useless
underwater.

TALIESIN: Extremely useless.

MATT: Percy has the light, too.

TALIESIN: I'll be in the middle.

MARISHA: I'll be with Percy, more up front.

MATT: All righty.

LAURA: I'll be just behind Percival.

MATT: All righty. Grog?

TRAVIS: Where should I be?

MATT: You're sinking faster than most anybody.

TRAVIS: Yeah. How about I'm the down-weighter
system for whoever's in the front? I'll hold onto

their ankles.

MATT: Is Trinket in your necklace or swimming, as
well?

LAURA: He's out. He's swimming.

MATT: Okay, so Trinket's trying to keep up next to
you. Scanlan, where are you?

SAM: I'm probably next to Percy.

MATT: All right, so you guys begin making your way
down. You can breathe the water just fine as you

descend 40, 60 feet, 80 feet.

LAURA: I'm equalizing.

TRAVIS: You're breathing water. It's not
necessary.

LAURA: Really? Your ears wouldn't pop, still?

TRAVIS: There's no air in your sinuses.

LAURA: Oh, right. Okay, cool.

MATT: It's funny. You mention equalizing, and I
can't help but try and do it myself now.

TRAVIS: Quick question. Like in space, can we talk
underwater if there's no air going through our

vocal cords? Cool.

LAURA: Oh, good. We can't communicate.

MATT: I'll say because you have the earring, it's
a little garbled, but you can hear it a little

bit.

MARISHA: It's like that game we all played when we
were growing up.

MATT: You can make out the gist of things, but
depending on how fast you're talking, it could be

hard to hear. It's getting darker and darker the
further down you descend, and the water gets

murkier and murkier. It also gets warmer.

TRAVIS: Stop peeing, Vax.

MATT: (chuckles) I was waiting for it.

LAURA: You called him Vex.

LIAM: Vax, and I said sorry at the same time, so
I'm peeing right now, is what I'm saying.

MATT: It's good. It leads you into it. Descending
further and further, the only visible light that

you have is the one that Percival is shining
below, and as it goes through, you can see it

reveals another 40 or so feet ahead of you, and
then as you pass over, it suddenly becomes shorter

and then longer again as it comes and hits the
smoke, and you can see the smoke and the fume now.

It's billowing up at a rapid pace, and the water
is getting hotter and hotter, to the point where

now it's starting to feel like a sauna.

LAURA: (garbled) We didn't think about fire
resistance, did we?

MATT: About another 20 or so feet, and it's hot
enough to stand, but it's getting really

uncomfortable, and with Percival's light, you can
see the bottom. (soft impact) You guys all land

there at the bottom of the ocean. It's so dark
that outside of Percival's light and the glow

around you, you only see the outline of each other
from the splash-back of the light as he projects

it around.

LAURA: Does anybody have any light?

MARISHA: I can light up my flame hands.

TRAVIS and MATT: You're underwater.

MARISHA: But it's magic. I thought it doesn't
matter?

MATT: I will say, you get a little bit there, and
it's fighting against it. It's a very faint glow.

You can see where Keyleth is, but it doesn't add
any light to the rest of this.

TRAVIS and LIAM: (garbled noises)

LAURA: We really need to say stuff, though,
because no one's going to be able to understand

us.

(laughter)

TRAVIS: Do you see anything around us?

MATT: Make a perception check.

TALIESIN: I may join in on that, because I have a
flashlight.

LIAM: 28.

MATT: You guys both have disadvantage on this, by
the way, because of the lack of visibility.

LIAM: 28.

LAURA: Scanlan, don't you have Dancing Lights or
anything?

TALIESIN: 21.

SAM: I can make a Fireball. (garbled) I can make a
Fireball, but it will probably go out really

quick.

LAURA: (garbled) Don't you have a Dancing Lights
cantrip or some shit like that?

SAM: (garbled) No.

LAURA: (garbled) Lame.

MATT: All right, so glancing down, you can see you
guys are standing on a rising upward cone; the top

of the volcano at this point, where you can see
all the ground below you, especially immediately

around where the water or the fume is gushing out,
is porous, dark rock. There's no soot; there's no

soft surface that you hit. There's no usual bottom
of the ocean you expect. Yeah, no sediment. It's

just hard rock. The force of the vents seems to be
pushing any of the sediment off, and it descends

slowly around you and disappears into the
darkness.

You can see a number of small-- strangely enough,
with the heat of the surrounding area, too, you

can see little bursts of color within the porous
rock, and with a quick glance, Vax, you can see

there are bits of plant life, colorful pinks and
purples that are slowly pulled into the porous

rock on the outside of these vents. You can see a
very faint glow in a couple of places of the rock

where it looks there is still some sort of very
hot, very slow pressurizing molten rock that is

cooling slowly. It looks like there's this
constant slow battle between the ocean water and

whatever's forcing upward.

MARISHA: Do I see any-- (garbled) Do I see--

MATT: (whispering) Don't, please.

(laughter)

MATT: Please don't.

LIAM: It sickens me.

(laughter)

MARISHA: Are there any pockets other than the main
pressure point that might be a smooth entry

point?

MATT: Right now, where it's emerging, these jets
of extremely hot fume that are billowing past you,

it looks like there's one concentrated opening at
the moment. As you walk around, it looks like it's

not one central column. It looks like there's a
number of smaller fissures that are all clustered

around this area, and it's hard to see the
separation because so much of it's mashing into

one giant column as it emerges.

MARISHA: Okay. Yeah. All right, so it's hot water
and gas coming up. If I theoretically wanted to do

a Control Water spell and reverse the water
inwards, could we go in through one of these

tunnels? Through one of these fissures?

MATT: You can certainly try.

TALIESIN: I hate that phrase.

TRAVIS: You've got the Death Ward. Go for it!

MARISHA: I'm more thinking for all of us. I don't
know how else we're going to get in.

LAURA: Can you make yourself a fire elemental, and
it won't damage you if you go-- or will water fuck

with you?

MATT: Oh, water will fuck with you as a fire
elemental.

MARISHA: I could be a water elemental, though.

MATT: You could.

TRAVIS: Should we walk around? The volcano, is it
massive?

MATT: You don't know. Your visibility vanishes
about 40 feet away from you.

LIAM: And we're just seeing little glows in the
distance?

MATT: You're seeing little glows within the actual
areas where the fumes are spewing up. You're

seeing down where the smoke is emerging. You're
seeing every now and then a faint glow that

appears here and there.

TALIESIN: Are the faint glows repetitive, like
they're coming from the same place over and over

again?

MATT: Yeah. It looks like the glow is stationary.
It's just the smoke obscuring it as it passes by

and occasionally gives you a glimpse.

TALIESIN: Let's head towards the glow.

LAURA: Yeah. It might be magma coming out,
though.

TRAVIS: There are tunnels that exist already.

TALIESIN: It might be magma. Also, if we see
anything resembling an air bubble, then we know

there's something that breathes.

MARISHA: If we want to wait a few minutes, I could
do a Commune With Nature.

LAURA: Yeah, do that. That's smart! Yeah.

MARISHA: I'm going to be like, underwater tea
party! (glugging) And do a Commune With Nature for

a little bit. I get three questions? I want to
find any easy tunnels.

LAURA: Man-made tunnels.

MARISHA: Man-made tunnels that aren't going to
bake us alive.

LAURA: Any dangerous creatures in the area.

MARISHA: Any dangerous creatures in the area.
That's good. And the Anvil. Okay.

MATT: Because of the nature of this, the radius is
limited to 300 feet because it's considered a

somewhat underground, not out-in-the-open
setting.

MARISHA: All right, yeah, 300 feet.

MATT: All right, so. You take the minute and
concentrate beneath. And with that, all of a sudden

you feel your conscious extend into the rock and
stone and the various forms of plant life that

have made home around the outskirts of the top of
this volcano's caldera. Your questions are?

MARISHA: Are there any man-made tunnels that will
grant us access into the volcano without burning

us alive?

LAURA: And where are they?

MARISHA: And where are they?

SAM: That's two questions.

MATT: No.

TRAVIS: Man-made is not important.

SAM: How about, any tunnels?

MARISHA: Are there any tunnels getting into the
volcano?

MATT: You feel the sense of the rock and the
surrounding material guide your attention, very

focused, into the center of where that fume is
erupting.

TALIESIN: Oh. Okay.

LIAM: The Anvil is probably too far away at this
point. Yeah, it's probably not right here at the

top. What about these colorful plant things
floating past us? Are they going to sting us and

paralyze us?

SAM: Should we find out, from nature, how far down
in the magma it is?

TRAVIS: Yeah, what the location of the Anvil is?

MARISHA: I'm afraid that 300 feet--

LAURA: But maybe it'll know how far away it
is, even though it can only-- Does it work that

way?

MARISHA: Within 300 feet, I can see the area.

LAURA: Oh, okay.

LIAM: Said the fantasy heroes.

MARISHA: Yeah. Hostile creatures! Hostile
creatures in the area.

MATT: Hostile creatures in the area?

MARISHA: Dangerous hostile creatures. How many
more adjectives can I throw in there?

LIAM: Pissy.

TALIESIN: Irritated creatures.

TRAVIS: Starving.

MARISHA: Do harm. Ill will.

MATT: Terrain. Bodies of water. Prevalent plants,
minerals, animals or peoples. Powerful celestials,

fey, fiends, elementals or undead. You do get a
very faint sense of elemental movement. You're not

quite sure what that pertains to specifically, but
it is moving just outside the radius of your

sphere of understanding here at the top of the
volcano, and it is moving slowly through rock.

LAURA: There you go.

SAM: Through rock.

MARISHA: Earth elemental.

LAURA: So we need to go in the top, yeah?

TRAVIS: Or through rock. You can make tunnels,
right?

MARISHA: I can make tunnels.

TRAVIS: I would prefer to do that than go down the
barrel of the shotgun, but that's just me.

SAM: Travis, can you say that with your finger
flapping on your mouth please?

TRAVIS: (garbled) No.

(laughter)

MARISHA: Are we concerned if I start boring
tunnels into the side of this that magma and

pressure will start releasing out the side?

TRAVIS: I'm just saying.

SAM: He's just saying.

LIAM: Vax swims down towards the cone. And I think
the last time I talked about the Deathwalker's

Ward, I'd set it to fire, so we'll say fire.

SAM: Immune to or resistant to?

MATT: Resistant to.

MARISHA: Is my mantle helping with the heat?

MATT: Yeah, the heat isn't bothering you as much.
It helps with extreme heat as a general weather

type, but intensely dangerous heat like fire or
anything, it's not going to help you with that. So

you dive into the center?

TRAVIS: Yeah, I forgot. He's like a crash test
dummy. We'll worry about that later.

MATT: You watch as Vax disappears into the liquid.
The pressure is a lot. I need you to make an

athletics check first.

LIAM: Okay, that's what I'm best at. Athletics.
Natural 20. Thanks, Matt Colville.

MATT: You swim down into the darkness and you're
using your sense of balance to keep tabs on what is

up and what is down, because once you dive into
the middle of this pillar you see nothing. And you

begin to swim down, feeling for where the gravity
is pulling you and the force against you, and use

that to get your bearings.

LIAM: I know it's probably fuck-all, but I'm going to
pull out the Flametongue Dagger and try to use

it as a shitty-ass--

MATT: You can faintly see a little bit of it
there. You do take three points of fire damage as

soon as you enter the water, reduced to one. So
you manage to push through and descend about 15 or

so, 20 feet. You suffer another six points of fire
damage, reduced to three. Need you to make

another athletics check, please, as you're pushing
further and further down.

LIAM: Use my first Luck of the day. Oh, not good.
Same thing. Just a six.

MATT: A six? It begins to push you up, you
lose a little bit of ground. You take another

one point of fire damage. You begin to make up,
and you get partway down. You get another 40 or so

feet down into it, you think. Still unable to
really see anything. Occasionally, you see a glint

of that light that you saw before. The little bit
of glow. You take another three points of fire

damage, reduced to one. It is a lot of heat, but
you continue to push further. Make another

athletics check, a third one.

LIAM: 20, total.

MATT: 20? (grunting) Pushing along, still making
your way down, making your way down. You get

probably another 80 or so feet before it seems to
curve off a little bit to the side. The force of

the water begins to shift a little bit. You take
another three points of fire damage. You begin to

see a faint bit of that glow that you were
following earlier, and as you head towards it the

heat gets more and more intense. You begin to push
past some of the smoke, and you can see right

there, looks like there's a glowing ember of rock
about five or six feet wide that is molten rock

that is slowly cooling as it's being pushed
faintly out, but the force of the water curves off

to the side and you continue to swim away from
where that glowing ember is and following the path

of where this push of water is. You take another
two points of fire damage.

LIAM: Okay. I'm Ed Harris, sinking down and down
and down.

MATT: The temperature is going up. You
continue to swim, continue to swim. Further down,

further down, further down. Make another athletics
check.

LIAM: 16.

MATT: Okay. You're slowing down a bit, but
you're still getting ground. You also take another

three points of fire damage. This is getting
hard.

LIAM: Yeah?

MATT: And even your form, you're getting a little
tired, having to go against this force. And you're

not quite sure where this is going to lead you.
You're not going to stumble across an opening

where it's fine to walk. You're continuing to swim
down a superheated--

LIAM: I'm going to push it just a little bit
more.

MATT: Okay, make another athletics check.

LIAM: Okay. That's not good. That's a seven.

MATT: Okay. You get pushed back about 15 feet or
so, and you take another three points of fire

damage.

LIAM: And I'll go with it, up.

MATT: Okay. You ride up. Before you can get
entirely out of the column, you take another three

points of fire damage and eventually emerge from
the side of it. Uncomfortable.

LIAM: Back into warm piss water, instead of
boiling hot.

MATT: Yes, which comparatively is much more
comfortable.

LIAM: Nope!

TRAVIS: What did you see?

LIAM: I mean. You can't really understand me
though, can they? Right? It's all shit.

LAURA: Oh, we can understand you.

MATT: You have the earring on.

LIAM: It goes forever. I think we need to look
elsewhere. I don't think all of us are going to

make it down that fucking tunnel.

MARISHA: What if I'm controlling the currents?

LIAM: (sighs) That would help. It was getting hot
as hell down there. I don't know. I mean, maybe a

quick look around the perimeter of this thing?

MARISHA: I didn't find anything.

TRAVIS: Yeah, but it might be worth it. We don't
even know what the Core Anvil looks like.

TALIESIN: We have a broom.

LIAM: We're not going to muscle our way down.

LAURA: No, it doesn't do anything in-- it flies.

TALIESIN: Does it not work underwater?

LAURA: I can try. But it flies.

TRAVIS: I mean, no.

MATT: You can certainly try.

LAURA: Yeah. It'll just sit.

LIAM: Well, I think we're either druiding our way
in or looking for another way in, somehow.

LAURA: Fuck. How long did that take?

MATT: He was gone for about a minute. Minute and a
half.

SAM: I have an idea. What if I could make us a
tunnel straight down the middle? Would the heat

kill us or would the water tamp down the heat? If
I can make a ten-foot wide tunnel all the way

through, down?

LAURA: With no water?

TRAVIS: It might make another exhaust port for the
heat and the water.

MARISHA: That's what I was saying. I'm afraid of
the pressure.

SAM: The pressure of what? Once it comes up, it
becomes rock. Oh, I see. There's more underneath.

TRAVIS: You didn't see tunnels, right? You didn't
see tunnels in the sides of the volcano?

LIAM: No.

TRAVIS: Because we're not trying to go down, we're
trying to find the tunnels.

SAM: What tunnels?

TRAVIS and LAURA: There are tunnels here.

MATT: Both Percival and Scanlan, make an
intelligence check, please.

SAM: Just a straight intelligence check?

MATT: Just whatever you roll plus your
intelligence modifier.

SAM: Eight!

TALIESIN: 14.

MATT: 14. On this discussion of burrowing deeper
within, if there were any places where you could

walk that were not completely filled with water,
per se, the minute you exposed it, it would

begin to fill with water. Which means you'd have think
of a way to either plug it or just stay wherever

water exists within the system beneath.

TRAVIS: Right. I don't know if we're trying to get
to the inside of the volcano shaft.

MARISHA: Our water breathing lasts for 24 hours.

TALIESIN: Let's roll around a little bit. See if
we can see anything else.

LAURA: Maybe we can go around the perimeter and 
see if we can find some sort of entrance. Some

magical-looking entrance.

MARISHA: Scanlan, your burrowing. What means are
you using for that?

SAM: Magic.

MARISHA: Touché.

SAM: Sorry, Miley Cyrus.

TRAVIS: There's a chance the Core Anvil could be
made of molten rock, right? There's nothing that

says it's a not dangerous, totally cool to be
around piece of thing.

MARISHA: I have a feeling that's exactly what it
is. It's going to suck working around that thing.

Sorry.

TRAVIS: I'm not worried about it. Well, we've got
to find whatever it is. We don't even know what it

looks like!

LAURA: Do you know, Percival, what it looks like?
Did you see it in your mind's eye?

MATT: You only have the construct of the actual
trammel, not the anvil.

TRAVIS: Yeah, when I was getting the upload from
Morpheus, did I see what the Core Anvil might look

like? Or was it just like, I'm just hammering and
Rambo 2 montage music is playing.

MATT: More that.

MARISHA: Scanlan?

SAM: Yes?

MARISHA: Okay. Can we tag-team this?

SAM: All right, I can be a burrowing monster.

MARISHA: Okay, what if you burrow and I push the
water away--

SAM: Is that a spell?

MARISHA: Yeah, Control Water. I can push it away,
and if you do that, then maybe we can all get in

and then maybe I can throw up a wall!

SAM: All right, I can burrow. You can deflect
water and stuff?

LAURA: Through the mountain? Through the volcano,
instead of down the top, like he just did.

SAM: Whatever you want.

MARISHA: Or I can control the currents and suck us
all right through down the top.

TALIESIN: I like "control the currents." I don't
know.

SAM: But the currents can't go down because stuff
is coming out, no?

MARISHA: As part of Control Water, I can reverse
the currents.

SAM: But you can't control the lava coming up.

MARISHA: No, it's water and gas and pressure.

SAM: Oh, it's just gas. It's not lava.

MATT: You can also part water, don't forget, as a
part of this, too. You can also part water.

MARISHA: I can also part water, like fucking
Moses.

MATT: Yeah, or redirect flow. Or create a
whirlpool. There are all things you can do.

LAURA: Solid, then let's try it.

LIAM: What were you thinking? Were you thinking of
Umbrasyling this shit, were you going to black

dragon dig your way down?

SAM: I was going to become a purple worm. They're
excellent at burrowing and are big and could make

a big tunnel.

LAURA: Are they resistant to water and heat?

SAM: No, but they are stacked with hit points.

LAURA: Solid.

MARISHA: That would be one of your top-level
spells, yeah?

SAM: The toppest.

LAURA: Let's not do that just yet. Let's control
current and see if we can fucking do it, with some

light this time.

TRAVIS: We need a walk. Walk the perimeter

MARISHA: I mean, we can still walk the perimeter
if you want.

LIAM: I mean, we got a little under 24 hours. Fuck
it, let's look.

MARISHA: We can walk the perimeter

TALIESIN: Let's do a little walk of the perimeter,
and when we're ready, we're going to jump down and

we'll Mary Poppins it.

MATT: Okay, so you guys begin to make your way
around, spiraling the outside of this.

TALIESIN: Looking, using the light.

MATT: Okay, what are you looking for?

TALIESIN: I'm looking for other expelling gasses,
interesting plant growth, lights.

LIAM: Anything that looks not-natural.

TRAVIS: Yeah, caves.

MATT: Okay, everyone who's looking, make an
investigation check.

MARISHA: Investigation? Natural 20.

(cheers)

TRAVIS: Oh, minus two. 17.

TALIESIN: 14.

LIAM: 18.

LAURA: Ten.

MATT: As you guys are glancing about, for over the
next 15 or so minutes, just swimming around and

keeping an eye out there, Keyleth, with your
glowing hands and cruising across as you head

down, you can feel a couple of other small changes
in the current. Less of a fume release, more than

there is a warmer area of water in a small area
and you find there is a pressurized jet of water

coming out of one section maybe about 25 to 30
feet down on the side.

LAURA: Hey! You're smart, Grog!

MARISHA: How big is the jet?

MATT: I'd say it's between about three feet long
on one side and about a foot long on the other.

It's a fissure.

LAURA: So we can get through it?

MARISHA: Yeah, can Grog fit?

MATT: No.

MARISHA: Okay.

TALIESIN: But can Trinket fit?

MATT: No, Trinket or Grog, neither of them can
fit. Most of you guys have to squeeze through, and

it's as hot as the water that was coming out of
the top.

MARISHA: Is it made out of stone? Can I call this
earth? Can I call this rock?

MATT: It's considered rock. It's volcanic rock.

MARISHA: So Move Earth would not work?

TALIESIN: Or Grog can punch it.

LAURA: Yeah, Grog can punch.

MARISHA: You are good at destroying structures.

SAM: You're going to punch a volcano?

MATT: Yeah, dirt, sand, or clay, so I'm going to
say no.

MARISHA: Can I transmute the rock into dirt or
sand to give us a little more?

MATT: If you have a means of doing that, you
could.

MARISHA: I have Transmute Rock. Or we can let Grog
go first.

TALIESIN: Let's let Grog punch a volcano.

MATT: You want to punch a volcano?

TRAVIS: Kind of.

TALIESIN: Teach it to say your name!

MATT: Roll a strength check.

TRAVIS: (garbled) Say my name, bitch!

LAURA: Don't you get advantage?

TRAVIS: I do. Only if I'm raging.

MATT: I'll give you advantage on this because it's
a volcano punch.

TRAVIS: Hey! Oh, 26.

LAURA: Don't you get advantage because of your
gauntlets?

MATT: Well, no. The gauntlets don't give him
advantage, but they do give him siege and he does

double damage against structures and I'll consider
this a natural structure. You rear back, and as

you do, you guys watch. You haven't really watched
him use this type of power in the dark before, and

you watch as the faint bit of a few yellow runes
glow as he pulls back and then slams into the side

and you watch as rock breaks and bits of the
volcanic rock break off and begin to tumble down

the sides. He punches again and punches again and
as you do watch the water flow, you feel the

warmth come up. You immediately take six points of
fire damage from the heated jet in front of you,

but as you slam it one more time, part of it (rock
collapsing) gives away underneath as one side of

it begins to jet up, you watch as it looks like there
is a gap or an air pocket that collapses inward

and the water begins to fill in immediately.

LAURA: Let's get in quick and then cover it. We go
fast, go in.

MATT: Okay. You guys are all fighting against the
current?

LAURA: Well, didn't you say there was an air pocket?

MATT: Well there was an air pocket that you saw,
but the stone as he punched in, as soon as it

collapsed inward it was away from where the jet
was. It's a very interesting thing to try and

describe here in a theater of mind scenario.

MARISHA: We're trying to go through an outward jet
to this caved-in air pocket.

MATT: Yeah, essentially you've opened up where
the jet's strength has diminished a little bit at

the surface at this point, and you've watched as
you've punched and there will be another chamber

below that was an air chamber collapsed inward,
and ocean water is rushing into it right now.

MARISHA: Okay, okay. Let me Control Water with the
current, and can I redirect the current up and

around us to allow us to get in?

MATT: Okay, so Control Water takes an action to
cast. So as soon as that happens, you finish the

spell and as the ocean water begins to rush in
(water rushing), it immediately pulls back out,

and you can actually stop the current that's
blowing upward and heated water is held in place,

and you can look down below. The water is this
slightly shimmering barrier and there is a

small air-filled chamber below.

MARISHA: Okay, yeah, I'm pushing the water,
parting it, giving us a little.

SAM: Can we fit through whatever hole there is?

MATT: Actually, looking down inside, it looks to
be roughly 20 or so feet wide on almost any other

side, and it looks to be that there's a small,
still pool that is there in the ground. It's a

small air pocket.

LAURA: Yeah, I go in after him.

MATT: Okay, you all rush inside there. You land
past it and it's about a 15 foot drop, you all

land on your feet or stumble off to one side and
catch yourself, but you're now in this chamber

beneath.

SAM: And the only thing keeping the water from
rushing in here is Keyleth?

MATT: Keyleth currently, yeah.

LAURA: I like how everything is like, "Keyleth can
do this." Can you wall it off with Create Wall?

SAM: Well, not while casting this spell.

MARISHA: All right, push the water, Wall of Stone
(boom).

MATT: As soon as the water pushes away, it begins
to pull back, and immediately you can hear the

rush of the ocean suddenly, oppressively, darting
downward to fill the space where you are and then

with that, (slamming) you watch as volcanic stone
stretches out and slams shut. You're now in a

pitch-black room except for the surface of his
light and the glowing of Keyleth's hands.

LAURA: Yay! Which are brighter now because we're
not in water.

MARISHA: Oh!

TALIESIN: Ow, my ears popped.

SAM: That was amazing!

LAURA: That was fucking sick!

MARISHA: You punched a volcano!

TRAVIS: I did, didn't I? Grog versus the volcano!

MATT: As you guys have this conversation, you're
talking, and sounds are happening, everything's

fine. But, (exhales) breath is hard.

MARISHA: Oh, oxygen?

SAM: Or poison?

TRAVIS: Air pocket.

MATT: All of the air in here is poisoned. There is
no oxygen in this room. There is that pool of

water in the center, maybe four-foot wide, and you
can see it's kind of bubbling a bit, like whatever

the fume is that's filled the space is--

LIAM: How does Heroes' Feast factor into this?
Heroes' Feast. Doesn't that guard against poison?

MATT: You're not poisoned. You're not having toxic
shock and dying right now, but you're

suffocating.

TALIESIN: I'm going to put my face in the water
and breathe.

MATT: It's not affecting you. You're fine.

LAURA: Oh, because you don't breathe.

SAM: You're already dead.

MARISHA: Weirdo.

TRAVIS: Yeah, put your face in the water and
breathe.

TALIESIN: I'm putting my face in the water and
attempting to take a breath.

MATT: The bubbling of air there is the same fume
here.

TALIESIN: I'm just trying to use the water
breath.

MATT: Oh, the water breath itself? Oh, with the
water breathing? The water you can breathe.

LAURA: Oh, great! So any time we need a breath we
just breathe, okay!

TALIESIN: We might start getting a little loopy if
we stay out here for too long.

TRAVIS: Vex, will you look for anything that looks
like a Core Anvil? And I stick my face in.

LAURA: I take a breath and I start looking for a
door or any way out of this.

TALIESIN: I'm going to open the light fully.

LIAM: Flametongue Dagger is out so I can see the
non-water portion.

MATT: Okay.

LAURA: 18.

MATT: 18. You go in and take a breath and you look
down below, especially with the light and the lamp

that's going around, you can see where this is
happening, this little pool, it's another

small tube that descends farther and curves away
out of sight.

LAURA: (gasps) Is it wide enough for all of to fit
through?

MATT: Well, from what you can see before it curves
off, it looks like it could probably fit

everybody.

LAURA: Hey! There's a tunnel down there!

TALIESIN: I'm going to tilt the light into it and
take a look down.

MATT: Okay. Looking down, it does; it's a curvature
off, it looks like at one point there was some

sort of an escape, or at least that jet that you
originally found earlier? Part of it got blocked

off and while the get of water continued, the
opening here kind of got covered with some sort of

liquid rock and it created this pocket. You can
swim down there. Who knows where it leads, but it

does not appear to have any sort of a forceful
jet.

SAM: It's a tube? We're in one of the cow's
stomachs.

MATT: Essentially.

MARISHA: Control Water lasts up to ten minutes, so
if we want to commit to this, I can help jettison

us there.

MATT: You have to cast it again, though, because
you lost concentration.

MARISHA: Why?

TRAVIS: Because you made a Wall of Stone.

MARISHA: We decided early on that Wall of Stone
was instantaneous. And permanent.

MATT: Permanent and concentration. Yeah, okay,
I'll let you go with that.

MARISHA: Because it was in Pathfinder.

TRAVIS: Do we want to get rid of the water,
though? Because that's what's allowing us to

breathe.

MARISHA: The water? Just happens. Us breathing
water is good for 24 hours.

SAM: But if we get rid of the water, then we won't
have anything to breathe.

MARISHA: No, I'm going to Control Water, and I'm
going to jettison us with the current.

SAM: Okay, go for it.

LAURA: Let's take it a little slow because we
don't know what we're coming up to, though. I

don't want to jump full-force into--

MARISHA: Yeah. It'll be like Lazy River.

LAURA: Something like that. Lead the way,
darling.

MATT: Well, how the spell works is if you maintain
concentration for the whole duration, it becomes

permanent.

MARISHA: For the whole duration?

MATT: For the whole duration. Which is ten
minutes.

MARISHA: But I haven't done that because I've
already jettisoned this one water, and then now

I'm trying to use the remaining--

MATT: It's fine. Don't worry about it.

LAURA: Let's just go in the water. I follow him.
Although Percy should technically be up front

because he's got light.

MATT: Okay, so Percival goes first, followed by
Vax, then Vex.

TRAVIS: Me in the middle.

MATT: Grog. Is Trinket still swimming along with
you?

LAURA: Trinket is behind Grog.

MATT: All right. And then that's Scanlan and
Keyleth at the very end. All right. You guys dive

past under the water. It curves, and you can see
there's a faint light source in the distance. This

curves below. It splinters downward and then
curves up slightly, and that's where the light

source is coming from.

TRAVIS: Yeah, of course. Air pocket.

LIAM: I'm going to go stealth.

MATT: Make a stealth check.

TRAVIS: Do your Navy SEAL shit.

LIAM: That's fine.

TRAVIS: Come out of the water, eyes open.

LIAM: 34.

SAM: 34? Jesus.

MATT: All right. You think you're pretty stealth.

LIAM: I think I'm pretty stealth.

MATT: You think you're pretty stealth.

LIAM: All right.

TRAVIS: I don't like the way he said that.

LAURA: I know!

MATT: Go upward?

LIAM: Yeah.

MATT: Okay. As you get up, you see a familiar
orangeish-red glow, and as you see the surface of

water above you, there's another, looks like an
air pocket. You emerge. You look about, and it

looks like there is another tunnel here, but
there's a faint glow. It looks like there are

small veins of cooling volcanic rock in this area.
The tunnel continues. There's actually ground that

you can walk on that continues down and curves out
of the way.

TRAVIS: The walls are cooling?

LIAM: I just turn to the group and I'm going to--

LAURA: Can you see by the light of the magma?

MATT: You can see fairly, with your elven vision,
yeah, and with your dagger. So yeah, you begin to

walk on the surface. The surface is cooled, and
it's very hot in here. But not painfully so, like

when you dove into the caldera itself. You walk
down about ten or 15 feet and you see it's now

breaking off in various directions. You can see
small pockets where it closes off, areas where it

looks like whatever air or gases were trapped up
when parts of the volcano would expand and

pressurize upward, it would trap these areas. But
you see areas where liquid rock are spilling into

and creating small pools. And it continues to
descend, almost like a curved spiral, around the

way.

LIAM: So there's a walkway, but there's also
lava?

MATT: Very faint trickles, and cools slowly on the
floor.

LIAM: I've only gone about 20 feet at this point,
is that right? I am going to go around the bend.

Continuing quietly.

MATT: You go around the bend, and you can hear
faintly the rushing of water, muffled. You're not

that far away, you gather, from spatial awareness
as to where the heavy pressure of the water that

was forced upward, you can faintly feel the
vibration. But as you curve away it gets dimmer

and dimmer, as you spiral off further away from
the center of this volcano. And as it continues to

spiral downward, this natural air pocket cavern,
it splits again into a small opening where it's

settled, faintly orange glowing, with spots of
black molten rock that's slowly cooling. The path

curves around the way, and it splits into two
pockets of this cooling rock. And then maybe about

a five-foot leap to continue downward.

MARISHA: Over lava?

MATT: Your favorite.

MARISHA: So bad at it.

MATT: I know.

LIAM: I'm going to double back to the group.

TALIESIN: I think we're already starting to make
our way out.

LIAM: It goes a little further, but I just didn't
want to go too far on my own.

LAURA: What did you see?

LIAM: Just goes further. But I don't want to get
separated completely, so come up a bit, and I'll

go a little bit further.

SAM: Can we walk on it? Is it going to burn our
little feetsies? Or do we need to fly?

LIAM: I don't think so.

LAURA: Up and over. Let's-- yeah. Let's go up
there.

TRAVIS: We follow Vax.

LAURA: Can we cast Locate Object on the anvil?
Don't you have something that sends a direct path

to an object?

MARISHA: Find the Path? But I think I have to have
seen the object before. It would also burn my last

6th-level spell.

LIAM: I could do it, but you have to be familiar
with it. Being told about it doesn't count, does

it?

MATT: You don't have enough information to do
that, yeah. You guys all emerge from the water to

gather up with Vax.

LIAM: I'd like to lead them to where that jump
is.

MATT: Okay. As you all take a deep breath under
the water and get to the surface, you make a test

breath and the air in this pocket is still
poisonous and not breathable, so you guys are

going to have to take a deep breath under the
water and hold your breath as you make your way

down that tunnel.

LAURA: Oh fuck. Were there any other pockets of
water along the way?

LIAM: Shit. Get back in the water. And I'm going
to solo go where I wasn't intending to, to see how

far it is to get to the next bit of water. You
said it was a jump over magma?

MATT: Yep.

LAURA: Does your creepy undead brain
remember how long it takes before we die if we

don't breathe? Do you remember that?

LIAM: I walk away from her, and I go down the
hall.

MATT: All right. It's a decent jump to get over
the lava. It's not a hard one, necessarily, but I

want you to make an athletics check, anyway.

LIAM: Ooh, better use one of my Lucks for that.
That was a one. Ooh! Six.

MATT: Six.

LIAM: Six. Burn, baby, burn.

MATT: Total of six?

LIAM: Yeah, total of six. Already used Luck; it's
done.

MARISHA: Why does this always happen to us?

TRAVIS: I don't know, but I love it.

MATT: You run and make a leap, and you're pretty
sure you made it, but one foot (sizzle) right into

it.

TALIESIN and MARISHA: Is it the same foot?

MATT: It's the same foot.

TALIESIN and MARISHA: Yeah!

MATT: Thankfully, your armor is set to resist.

TALIESIN: Okay, that's right. That was early on.
Wow.

LIAM: And yet Vax ain't sweating it. Not anymore.

TALIESIN: It's nothing you haven't had to regrow
before.

LAURA: Does your Raven Queen regenerate lost
footsies?

MATT: What would have been 56 damage is reduced to
28 fire damage to you. You pull out real fast.

(sizzle, groan) It burns and burns and burns. Kick
it off. You keep walking around the curvature, and

it takes about two minutes or so of brisk travel
to get around the corner where you can see another

pool of warm water.

LAURA: Two minutes.

LIAM: So I see water and I shove my face down in
it and breathe it. Who knows, with me? And I go

back to where I burned my fucking foot, and I go
into the earring-- I'm not going to fucking jump

over that shit again-- tell them what I saw. Yeah,
two minutes. So deep fucking breath. Yeah?

LAURA: Ugh, two minutes.

LIAM: And when you see me, run towards me and
follow me.

LAURA: Yeah. All right. Grog?

TRAVIS: What?

LAURA: Are you good to run and jump over some
lava?

TRAVIS: Nope.

MATT: So as you guys are aware, you can hold your
breath for a number of minutes equal to one plus

your constitution modifier.

LAURA: (laughs) Oh no.

TRAVIS: Awesome!

LAURA: Okay, but you were on foot. If I'm on the
broom, then maybe it wouldn't take as long,

potentially.

MATT: You were making a careful path. If you were
to continue to dash, full dash run, it would be

close. You can try it.

LAURA: Okay. I'm going to put Trinket in the
necklace.

MATT: All right. Trinket in the necklace.

LAURA: Do you want to get on the broom with me?

TALIESIN: I've got the boots, so I was going to
use my boots.

LAURA: All right, anybody? Scanlan?

SAM: Yes, please.

TRAVIS: It's just a thought, but I do have the
big-ass jug that can make a big thing of portable

water.

LAURA: (gasps) Sick!

MARISHA: Wait, we're waterboarding ourselves?

TRAVIS: Well, you can breathe in that shit, right?
We won't be able to see.

TALIESIN: Can we fit our head in that jug?

MATT: Yeah, you can.

TALIESIN: You've just got to carry the jug, and as
long as we stick our head in the jug every time we

need to breathe-- you're a genius! You're a
genius! I will say that seven more times. We'll

space them out.

SAM: We might run out of water, though, because
we're breathing it in.

TRAVIS: You're breathing it back out. You're
recycling it. It'll get a little less oxygenated.

LIAM: How long does a fish live in a fish tank?

SAM: You're right. We're big fish.

LIAM: The biggest.

TRAVIS: Do you want to do that?

SAM: Let's try it.

TRAVIS: Salt water or fresh water? Or wine.

LAURA and TALIESIN: Fresh water.

TRAVIS: I take out the Alchemy Jug and I say,
fresh water.

MATT: It fills with fresh water to the surface.

LAURA: Try breathing it.

TRAVIS: Are we underwater right now?

TALIESIN: We'll take it out of the water.

TRAVIS: Okay. I stick my head in it. Can I
breathe?

MATT: Yeah, fine.

TRAVIS: It works. It works! I'm holding it above
the water.

LAURA: Oh, smart.

LIAM: I hear you can do this with a non-magical
jug, too.

SAM: Oh yeah. We just could have carried water in
a jug.

TRAVIS: Don't downplay my special moment.

SAM: We have chalices.

LAURA: We do have an extra chalice. You know what?
I'm going to take the fancy chalice and-- as

needed.

TALIESIN: I'm going to use the breathing jug.

MATT: This is the funnest work-around. I love it.

SAM: It's a water bong?

MATT: Essentially. You guys are gravity-bonging
your way through an underwater volcano. If that's

not Vox Machina, I don't know what is.

TALIESIN: It's how I solve so many problems in my
life. It's the solution to half our problems.

LIAM: We're going to try to water-bong every
combat scenario for the rest of the campaign.

TRAVIS: I was looking at it, and I was like, fresh
water, vinegar, oh!

MATT: All righty. So.

SAM: Don't do drugs, everyone.

MATT: As you guys make your way around the way,
through the combination of that druid spell and,

strangely, Grog's ingenuity, you guys have
bypassed a fairly serious situation. You make it

down around the curvature of the tunnel, to where
that small lava jump is. Anybody who wants to make

that leap, go ahead and make an athletics check,
please.

LAURA: I pop Scanlan on the broom and we fly on
over.

TALIESIN: I activated my boots and walk.

MARISHA: And I use my mantle, which I constantly
forget triples my jump distance.

MATT: It does, so go ahead and make an athletics
check.

TRAVIS: 21.

MARISHA: That's not great. Acrobatics?

MATT: Athletics.

MARISHA: Oh, that's better. That's better. 15.

MATT: 15? Yeah. You coast over. It's like a soft
Neo jump. Not quite that far, but you coast and

land onto the side. Grog, what did you get?

TRAVIS: 21.

MATT: 21. You guys all make it across that little
stretch of molten rock without an issue. You

continue around the way. Vex and Vax, as you guys
are making heavy footfalls and making some

distance, you begin to feel this (rumbling noise)
rumbling in the ground beneath you.

LIAM: Oh shit.

LAURA: I think there's something burrowing. Or an
earthquake.

MARISHA: Earth elementals.

LAURA: Potentially.

MARISHA: Volcanic earth elementals.

LIAM: Everybody hold still for a moment.

LAURA: I cast Pass Without a Trace on all of us.

MATT: Okay.

MARISHA: Dope.

MATT: I would like all of you to make a stealth
check right now.

TRAVIS: Oh, I think you barely got that in.

MATT: Barely.

SAM: It's plus ten?

MATT: Plus ten.

SAM: 31.

TALIESIN: 34.

MARISHA: 34.

LIAM: 40!

LAURA: Wow. 25.

TRAVIS: I'm sorry, guys.

TALIESIN: Oh no. Plus ten?

TRAVIS: 16.

SAM: Oh, okay, that's above something.

TRAVIS: I have a feeling.

SAM: What about Trinket?

LAURA: Trinket's in the necklace.

MATT: The rumbling stops as you all quietly stand
still. You begin to get bold, to take a few more

very faint steps on the ground. The rumbling
continues and gets louder and louder.

LAURA: (whispers) I get my bow ready.

MATT: All right. I'm going to go to break.

TRAVIS: Oh! You fucking didn't!

MATT: I'm hungry. All right. Yeah. So we'll pick
up from that rumbling here at the end of the

break. We'll see you guys back here in a moment.
We have quite the giveaway today. We have a

spalted tamarind complete dice tower system. Three
pieces from our friends at Wyrmwood. This is

actually, this is Percival's wood type. It's nice,
with a leather interior from our friends at Wyrmwood.

One lucky winner's going to get this. To enter
this, find your way to the Twitch chat. And when

requested during the break, go ahead and enter the
word "volcano." That will put you in the entry.

We'll come back with a winner in a minute. We're
going to go ahead and have a quick break with some

food, and we'll see you here in a minute, guys!

[break]

MATT: And welcome back to Critical Role.

TRAVIS: That was a barrage.

MATT: Yeah, that was making up for the beginning
of the game. We have a winner. In the chat, we

have johnny2x40 as the winner. Congratulations,
johnny2x40. Danoba will contact you shortly to get

your information, and we'll get that shipped out
to you ASAP, signed by the cast. Congratulations.

LIAM: The fuck was that?

MARISHA: I loved it so much.

TALIESIN: That's amazing.

MATT: All right. So as the rumbling continues to
grow and swell, you all hold yourselves in place.

(rumbling, crashing) You hear the crumbling and
crashing of stone and rock, as from the side of

the hallway, right next to where Grog is standing,
maybe about a foot and a half in front of him, you

watch some large, pointed object pierce through
the wall, maybe about nine feet tall or so, go

(explosion) out, sending dust and rock spilling
out, and there's a faint orange glow from some

smooth, armored head to some large creature with a
toothy mouth that opens up and (chomping) as it

bites down, you see rows and rows of teeth that
are glowing orange, as bits of molten rock are

spilling out the sides of the mouth.

MARISHA: It's like 2006's The Core!

MATT: Yeah. I hope it's better than that. You
recognize the shape of the front, especially you,

Percival, as you spent some time with a creature
of a similar shape.

LAURA: Oh, is it a worm? A purple worm?

MATT: No, because it has two, big. muscular,
trunk-like arms, as it (crash crash) out in front,

but it has no eyes. It has the solid, armored
front, and heated edges where the plates meet. It

seems to be some sort of elemental-infused or
variant of the bulette that you encountered

before. And as it breaks through and stops, mere
inches from Grog-- turn that thing off.

LIAM: It talks! It's a sentient bulette!

SAM: Happy Birthday.

MATT: (snarls) Across the way, you hear a low
rumble again. (snarls) It stomps the ground. And

you watch, from one of the other walls,
(explosion) jutting from it, a smaller version.

And a second emerges. (explosion) Two children. They
both emerge, going (snarls). As you're all

standing there, holding perfectly still.

SAM: They can't see us. We'll stand still and
we'll be fine, right?

MARISHA: Jurassic Park rules.

MATT: (sniffs)

LAURA: Oh no!

LIAM: We could attack them.

LAURA: There's three of them!

MATT: One of them turns around, and starts walking
slowly towards the direction that Grog is.

The large mother. And turns, Grog, and
you have to lean back as the nose sweeps past, and

is facing right in your direction. You can see
these large holes in the front of its armored

snout go (sniffing). The mouth slightly cracks
open and curls back into what you could almost

imagine to be a grin.

TRAVIS: Can I quietly go into a rage?

(laughter)

TALIESIN: You are not my parents.

MATT: Well, as none of you have done anything at
this point in time, I need you all to roll

initiative.

LIAM: See, that's what it was! That's what it
was!

TRAVIS: I heard you saying it, too.

LAURA: You should have just done it!

MARISHA: Do what?

LIAM: Don't worry about it.

LAURA: No!

TALIESIN: Goddamnit. No.

LIAM: Every time. Every time I do it!

MARISHA: Oh, your sneak attack?

LIAM: Yes. Fuckers.

MATT: So Grog, who was stopped here, was the last to
leap. Keyleth made it all the way over here.

LAURA: Trinket's in the necklace. We were on the
broom.

MATT: Broom over here.

MARISHA: Might still be able to do it.

MATT: Vax. Where were you? You were stealthed.

LIAM: I was near the lead.

MATT: So you would be over here, stealthing behind
this rock.

SAM: What a great board!

LAURA: This is really cool. Oh god, it's huge!
Grog! Little baby bulette.

TRAVIS: It's huge.

LAURA: Do we remember what its weaknesses were?

MARISHA: I know it takes half damage, I think, to
non-magical physical attacks. He's got

heavily armored skin. Other than that, I don't
know.

SAM: Ooh! Did a new light just pop on? And another
light? For a red lava effect in my eyes?

MATT: Into your eyes, Sam. That's why I do this.
All right, so initiative order. 25 to 20?

LAURA: Oh, 20.

MATT: 20 to 15?

LIAM: 17.

TRAVIS: 19.

SAM: 18!

LAURA: Does it realize that anybody but Grog is
there?

MATT: You don't know.

LAURA: We could have, potentially.

MATT: All right. And you're 17, you said?

LIAM: 17.

MATT: All right.

SAM: Here we go. This is going to be fun.

MATT: All right. 15 to ten?

MARISHA: 13.

TALIESIN: 12. My lowest possible initiative.

MARISHA: Did you roll a one?

TALIESIN: I rolled a one.

MATT: All righty. So top of the round, as all of
them seem to have shifted in the direction of

Grog, who is now quietly raging. Vex, you're up
first. What do you want to do?

LAURA: Oh god. I'm going to try to hit it with a
Lightning Arrow.

MATT: Which one?

LAURA: What do you mean?

TRAVIS: What animal?

LIAM: There's the mama and two babies.

LAURA: I'm going to try to hit the one that's
breathing on Grog.

MATT: All righty. So go ahead and make your
attacks.

TRAVIS: Yeah, provoke the thing with its teeth
closest to me. I'm just fucking with you.

LAURA: But it knows you're there! Maybe it doesn't
know I'm there! Plus I get a sneak attack on it,

because you're right next to it.

MATT: It's true.

LAURA: And I'm going to Hunter's Mark it!

MATT: Look at that!

LAURA: (laughs) I say!

MATT: She says to you!

LAURA: 25!

MATT: 25 hits.

LAURA: Lovely. So if that was a 3rd-level
Lightning Arrow, then that means I get 3d8

lightning damage in addition to my regular damage,
or is it just 3d8 lightning damage? Wait. Roll the

attack as normal, the target takes 4d8 lightning
damage on a hit. Oh, and every creature within ten

feet makes a dexterity saving throw. Okay. If I
cast it at 4th-level, so no, it's just 3rd-level.

MATT: So it's 4d8 lightning damage. So you made
the attack roll. It hit. So it takes that.

LAURA: Wow. Really? Nine plus--

MATT: Grog, make a dexterity saving throw,
please.

TRAVIS: Thank you. I have advantage on those, but
I won't need it because that was a 19.

LAURA: 15. It doesn't actually do my regular arrow
attack damage? It's just-- wow. My spells are

useless compared to my regular attacks.

TRAVIS: 21.

LAURA: 15 damage.

MATT: All right. So 15 damage. And then 2d8 to
Grog. Roll 2d8. And you take half that because you

made your save.

TRAVIS: 19. It's right on the paper. Negative two.
Sorry.

LAURA: You still made your save.

MATT: Yeah. What's the damage?

LAURA: Five.

MATT: Five damage to you, Grog.

TRAVIS: Thank you.

MATT: Five total, or that's halved?

LAURA: That's five total.

MATT: All right, you take two points of lightning
damage. Not too bad.

LAURA: I'm going to try to hit it again, then.

MATT: Lightning Arrow-- well, no. Interesting
point of order, Lightning Arrow is a bonus

action.

LAURA: Oh, and I did Hunter's Mark.

MATT: So no Hunter's Mark.

LAURA: Oh, so I did Hunter's Mark-- no. Oh. I am
never going to do spell attacks ever again. They're

worthless for me.

MATT: So no Hunter's Mark, but you hit it with the
Lightning Arrow. Next round you can worry about

that.

LAURA: Okay.

MATT: That's your first attack. You have your
second attack.

LAURA: Okay, then I'm going to attack it with a
regular-ass arrow that does more damage,

probably-- natural 20-- than a fucking Lightning
Arrow.

MATT: You did not do your sneak attack damage last
round, so if you wanted to do sneak attack damage

on this, you can.

LAURA: Okay. Lovely.

MATT: Which means you also double the sneak attack
damage.

LAURA: Sweet. That's seven. 14 plus eight is 22,
24, plus lightning damage. 24 plus five is 29

damage with a regular arrow.

MATT: And that's with the additional sneak
attack?

LAURA: Yes. No, I get two sneak attacks! Plus
another four. 29 plus four. 33.

MARISHA: Sneak attack that bitch!

MATT: 33 points of damage to it.

TRAVIS: Do I take that, too?

LAURA: No, that's regular.

MATT: As you release the Lightning Arrow, it slams
into it. (growling) The look shoots in the

direction where it came from, and as it opens up
its snout to smell, you fire a second arrow into

its mouth, and it starts writhing in place as it
does. It shakes, and you feel the ground quake in

the presence, and a few rocks (impacts) from the ceiling and
the children join the wail, and they all turn in

your direction. You going to do anything else on
your turn?

LAURA: Can I get on my broom?

MATT: Yeah, you get on your broom?

LAURA: I get on my broom.

MATT: That's all you do? All righty! Grog, you're
up.

TRAVIS: Oh, I am, huh?

MATT: At the beginning of your turn, the heat
emanating from this bulette that's right next to

you is rather intense. You immediately suffer--
from proximity to its searing body-- 11 points of

fire damage.

LAURA: How much?

MARISHA: 11 points.

That's not bad, yeah.

LAURA: Are these monsters or beasts?

MATT: These are considered monstrosities.

TRAVIS: How tall is the area that we're standing
in?

MATT: The top of the cavern would be about, maybe,
ten feet. Ten to 12 feet.

TRAVIS: Ten to 12 feet? Yeah, I'm going to make
both of my attacks at Mama Bear. Yeah, because

I've got to move. Either I move and it senses the
non-stealthy-- yeah, fuck it, I'm just going to

take both of my Bloodaxe attacks at it with the
first one Great Weapon Master. Not reckless. 21?

MATT: 21 hits.

TRAVIS: Just barely? Okay. That's awesome. 26...
36 points of damage?

MATT: 36 points of damage on that first hit? Not
bad. The axe cracks into the side of its body, and

you see the armor crack a little bit where it
hits. You pull the axe free, you can see the blood

pour out. As it spills and hits the ground,
(sizzle) you can see the actual blood in their

body is superheated as well.

TRAVIS: Ooh, that's a problem. Okay. They're like
xenomorphs. I'll take the second strike, as well.

Great Weapon Master, not reckless.

MATT: Okay, not reckless.

TRAVIS: That's shit. That's going to miss, I
think. Yeah. 20?

MATT: 20 hits.

TRAVIS: Oh, really?

TALIESIN: We're learning, we're learning things.

TRAVIS: 15. Because I said Great Weapon Master,
it's minus five.

MATT: You did. That misses.

TALIESIN: Somewhere between 15 and 20.

MATT: This is this one time where you do swing and
it hits, but the angle of the axe blade hits the

edge of its head plate armor, and scrapes off the
top with a shower of sparks off to the side. No

damage.

TRAVIS: Can I use my bonus action to rage or not?

MATT: Well, yeah, you were beginning to quietly
rage.

TRAVIS: Fair enough. Ends my turn.

LAURA: You want to move?

TRAVIS: No! I'm right next to it.

MATT: Scanlan, you're up.

SAM: Boy, man. I don't know what these things can
do. I will step forward a little bit. Super

tanky.

MATT: Ten feet? Five feet?

SAM: That's good enough for now. No, keep going.

LAURA: There's lava! Careful!

SAM: Thanks. I will inspire Grog by singing the
customary birthday song of his people, which goes

like this, (singing) Happy happy happy, happy
happy happy-- they're a very simple people-- happy

happy happy happy. (groans)

(laughter)

TRAVIS: You sang that better than my mother! Did I
have a mom?

SAM: And then as practice, I'm going to become my
beautiful angel self and transform into a naked

planetar.

MARISHA: Oh shit. Going planetar.

SAM: I assume I lose everything. I lose my Heroes'
Feast--

LAURA: Why would you?

SAM: Because I'm a different creature.

LAURA: So? It's still in your blood.

SAM: I don't think so.

MARISHA: Is this True Polymorph?

SAM: Yes.

TALIESIN: Maybe you get it back when you turn
back.

MARISHA: Generally, it'll say. Because
Shapechange, you absorb your armor.

SAM: Do you happen to have a planetar figurine?

MATT: That's what I'm checking. I thought I had one
prepared.

SAM: Oh my god. Guys. Magic: the Gathering
Puzzle Quest. Did I mention you can find out more

at bit.ly/MagicRole?

LAURA: You did, actually!

SAM: Capital M, capital R on that, by the way,
guys. Visit it right now. Friends of the show.

They need your support.

LAURA: That's right.

MARISHA: You know those first generation Black
Lotus cards can go for $30,000, depending on their

condition.

TALIESIN: Is it the alpha style with the black
border?

MARISHA: Yep. Banned cards.

SAM: Matt is really looking for this thing. In the
meantime, let me tell you some other amazing

Magic: The Gathering cards. I've got Time Twister,
Jace the Mind Sculptor--

TALIESIN: I've actually performed the Jace the Mind
Sculptor. It takes three friends to really pull it

off.

SAM: Naked Singularity. Not a sexual position.

MATT: We'll say for the purposes of this, because
it is the same size as a large creature, right?

SAM: It is.

MATT: We will use good old Doty as the current
size of your planetar.

LIAM: I can touch my miniature! Whoa!

MATT: You need to be there, because otherwise
you'd be stepping in the lava.

SAM: Okay, thanks.

MATT: So that's it?

SAM: I think that's all I can do.

MATT: You can continue to move, if you want.

SAM: Oh, that's interesting. As that guy, can I
move more?

MATT: Well, you've moved maybe 15 feet. I'd say you
probably have, at his flying speed, maybe a third

of his fly speed left.

SAM: That's another 40 feet.

MATT: (chuckles) So there is that.

SAM: All right. Well, then you guys got this well
in hand. I'm going to fly to the other guy. Is he

going to get an attack on me?

MATT: This guy here?

SAM: Yeah. As I fly up high?

MATT: You fly to him and you're gliding above
right now.

SAM: No, I'm going to go to the furthest guy.

MATT: Over here? (gliding noises) Okay. You're
currently floating above the lava. It's not

affecting you as you (whoosh) fly by. Because
you're flying, no, I will say the mom bulette

does not notice you pass. It does not get an
attack of opportunity.

SAM: (whispering) I'm the Crow.

MATT: Essentially. All right, that ends your turn.
Vax.

LIAM: Click the boots. Hunter's Mark on mama. So
all that's left is dagger, dagger, dagger, so I'm

going to do sharpshooter throws with the three
daggers that are left.

MATT: Okay.

LIAM: Am I within 60 feet? I think I am. All
right, so negative five on attacks. The first one

is total shit. The second one is 17?

MATT: 17 does not hit. (dagger ricochets)
Ricochets off.

LIAM: 23 on the last.

MATT: That does hit.

LIAM: Okay, because Grog is right there, it is
sneak attack? (sighs) One, this is nine, plus that

is ten, plus this. 13, 18, 24, 30, 33, 35, 36, 37.
And because it was a sharpshooter attack, it's

47.

MATT: Oof. Nice. Great, so that one, seeing the
glow of the slight crack in the armor that Grog

had left, the dagger disappears
inside the slight gap, and you see this (spurt)

of super hot, thick, viscous blood spill
out and hit the side of the rock and then cool and

darken as it does across the side of the cavern
wall.

LIAM: And then for movement, watch this shit right
here, folks. (counting) 40, because I'm hasted, 45,

50, 55.

MATT: There you go.

SAM and LAURA: Wow.

LIAM: I did it my fucking self!

MATT: All right, that ends your turn?

LAURA: Did it feel weird to have somebody else
moving the people?

MATT: No, it felt awesome. I didn't have to do a
damn thing. All right.

LIAM: Oh, and Hunter's Mark!

MATT: Yes, the Hunter's Mark damage.

LIAM: Six!

MATT: That's an additional six damage. All right,
infuriated, it's now starting to stomp in the

middle, and as it's hitting, the lava's starting
to splash up around it. The babies! This one right

here is only going to make a bite attack right
now. It can't make a leap because you're too close

to it. But as you rush towards it, it seems to
sense your presence, and the movement of the wings

(wing flap) keeping you aloft. And the baby's
going to (snapping) and lash out towards you. That

is 18.

SAM: Does not hit.

MATT: Does not hit. As it snaps out towards you,
its saliva seeming to spray superheated liquid

(saliva spray) across. Does not attack you at
all.

(laughter)

TALIESIN: Well that got GIF'ed.

LIAM: Dr. Manhattan, in the house!

MATT: The other baby watches you go running past.
It's going to go ahead and make a Deadly Leap. 15

(landing) on you. (whoosh) That brings it here.

LAURA: Oh shit!

LIAM: He's dead.

MATT: If that was the case, half you guys would've
been dead a long time ago. All right, I need you

to make a strength or dexterity saving throw, your
choice.

LIAM: I'll do dexterity at advantage because of
the boots, so that is a 27.

MATT: 27, okay. So you're not knocked prone, but
you do take-- let's see here. 19 points of damage,

bludgeoning and slashing. You are pushed five feet
out of its space.

LIAM: What was the total on that, Matt?

LAURA: 19.

MATT: All righty. That's the two babies' turn.
Keyleth, you're up.

MARISHA: Okay. The battlefield changed a little
bit, so instead, can I do a Chain Lightning out of

the staff and hit all three of those
motherfuckers? Starting with the big mama and

branching off to the two other dudes?

MATT: I could say you could do that, yeah.

MARISHA: Yeah, I do that.

MATT: All righty.

MARISHA: That's 10d8. And it's a dex? I think it's
a dexterity saving throw, and it's 10d8. One, two,

three, four, five. Does anyone want to lend me
their d8s?

LAURA: How many? I've got five here.

MARISHA: You have five there? Okay, okay, okay. A
little Ashley Johnson "Okay, okay, okay."

LIAM and MARISHA: (imitating Ashley) Yeah!

MATT: Nope, nope, and nope. No one makes their
save. This big, hulking thing.

MARISHA: Okay, I get to reroll ones because I'm a
badass.

LIAM: You got a bunch, too.

MARISHA: Yes, I did.

MARISHA: No, that's a ten. Ooh, that's good. Okay,
okay, five, four and four is eight, so that brings

us to 13, another-- wait, four and four and
eight--

LAURA: 17.

MARISHA: That was right, right?

LAURA: Yes, so you're at 17 now.

MARISHA: 17 plus another four is 21, plus another
five is 26, plus another four is 30, plus another

six is 36, plus another 16 total. So 36 plus 16 is
52.

MATT: 52 points of damage?

LAURA: You've got another one here.

MARISHA: Oh, 52 plus another seven, so 59.

MATT: 59 damage against all three of them. So as
you stand in the middle and watch one of them leap

past and pounce onto your lover as he's pushed out
of the way, you see Grog now facing off with this

giant gnashing mouth that is spilling forth
super-hot liquid, the lava glowing in the

distance. You're having flashbacks to the last
time you dealt with lava. You concentrate for a

second and release the blast of energy as it arcs
off, (explosions) slamming into each of them. You

see them shake and quiver, their muscles tensing
as they shriek in the middle of the cavern.

(shrieks) They stagger backward. Hurt, but
seemingly still holding on. All right, Percy, your

turn.

TALIESIN: I'm going to activate Silence. So that's
up. Charge Diplomacy. I'm going to give it a

little rev with my bonus action, and I'm going
to-- oh wow, can I actually reach? I can't quite

reach, but I can get close. I'm going to head
against that wall and start climbing up that

wall.

LAURA: Right here?

TALIESIN: Yeah, up there. Just put me up there.
Yeah, there we go.

MATT: Okay. Is that all you're going to do with
your turn?

TALIESIN: That's my action, my bonus action, and
my movement.

MATT: All right, that's your turn. All right, now
it's the mama bulette's turn. Mama bulette has

been facing Grog this whole time, after taking the
dagger and watching you run past, seeming ready to

leap, but with you still right in front of it,
she'll attack you. That is a natural 18. This is

important. So that's a total of 31 to hit.

TRAVIS: Let me check-- yeah.

MATT: So that's 45 points of piercing damage,
halved. We'll say 22, plus 13 points of fire

damage... and you are swallowed. On an attack roll
of an 18 to 20, it swallows the target. And

literally, I rolled a natural 18.

TALIESIN: What happens if you--

TRAVIS: It's always me! (laughing) It's always
me.

MATT: Apparently, man.

TALIESIN: What happens if you Titanstone-- never
mind. I'm going to find out.

TRAVIS: We've done this before. I'm well-versed.

MATT: You are blinded and restrained, currently.

TRAVIS: Blinded and restrained.

MATT: It now begins to (thudding) go right up into
melee range with Keyleth, who blasted it with the

Chain Lightning before. That brings us to the top
of the round. Vex, you're up.

LAURA: Okay, I'm going to Hunter's Mark it! And
then I'm going to attack it with an arrow.

MATT: Go for it.

LAURA: (old woman voice) Bramble Shot!

MATT: How'd that go again?

LAURA: (old woman voice) Bramble Shot! (normal
voice) 25! Oh! Can I do sharpshooter and do minus

five to hit, plus ten to attack?

MATT: Generally, you have to decide that before
you roll your attack. You can't just add it on

like, oh, I rolled well! I'll say no, not for that
first attack. You can for your second.

LAURA: This one is a Bramble Shot and it's a 25 to
hit.

MATT: That does hit.

LAURA: Okay, cool. Five plus eight is 13, 14, 15. 15
plus sneak attack and lightning damage. 15, 19,

23, 25, and then 4d8 piercing damage. 32.

MATT: All right. 32 points.

LAURA: And then he has to make a strength saving
throw.

MATT: That is a 20.

LAURA: Then he succeeds.

MATT: As the arrow slams into the side, the
brambles reach around, and you watch as these

thorny vines that wrap around the body begin to blacken
and burst into flame. By the proximity, the

brambles begin to burn to cinders and then break
off the body as it storms forward.

LAURA: I attack him again. This time I'm going to
try as a sharpshooter!

MATT: Do it!

LAURA: Okay!

MATT: You're up next, Grog.

LAURA: Natural 20!

MATT: Holy shit! That'll hit.

LAURA: And it's a Bramble Shot. Do I have to say
that before, too? Motherfucker.

MATT: Well, Bramble Shot gets to see if it hits or
not. It's not lost if you missed. If you hit, you

can say Bramble Shot.

LAURA: So yeah!

MATT: Same way that Divine Smite can be done.

LAURA: Okay, cool! All right! Right. I'm going to
roll all my dice, and then double that, then add

my extra things. How about that?

MATT: Do that. That's usually how you're supposed
to do it.

LAURA: All right, Matt. Okay, so 11, 14, 20, 23,
25, 50. That's easy. 58, 60.

MATT: 60 points of damage with one shot! And
secondary saving throw.

LAURA: Oh, plus ten because it was sharpshooter.
70!

MATT: 70 points of damage with a single arrow! You
didn't add your sneak attack damage a second time,

did you? Okay, good. That is nasty. It rolled a
natural 16 plus six for its strength saving throw,

so it's not affected by the bramble. However, it
is looking rough. The second arrow hits the side

and you watch as it streaks, pieces of the armor
fall off to the side. You can see the striations of

its muscle, and where the muscle tissue is, it's
dark, but at the seams it's glowing orange.

LAURA: I didn't add the Hunter's Mark damage.
Well, only extra two damage for that.

MATT: There you go, extra two damage. But now it's
bleeding everywhere. Wherever it's walking, you

can see it thrashing about. It's spilling off this
heated liquid that's pouring out of its wounds.

Does that end your turn?

LAURA: No, I'm going to move on my broom so he
doesn't know I'm there. I'm going to fly to here.

MATT: Okay! That ends your turn. Grog, you're up.
First things first, at the start of your turn,

because you are swallowed by the mom, you suffer
42 points of fire damage. Oh, it has to make a

constitution saving throw to see if it spits him
up first, actually, because you did more than 40

points of damage. That is a 22. Yeah, it's fine.
Wait, no, it's 25 DC. No, it does not! You do not

take the damage because she did enough damage with
that crit hit arrow that it vomits you up. You are

prone.

LAURA: Happy birthday!

TRAVIS: Thank you!

MATT: That would have been a good 42 points of
damage.

MARISHA: Grog gets vomited up in front of me?

MATT: Yep! (sizzling) There's steam.

TRAVIS: Every fucking time. Hi!

MARISHA: You smell like shit.

MATT: Grog, it's your turn.

TRAVIS: I'd like to stand up.

MATT: All right.

SAM: Jump into its throat.

TALIESIN: Jump back in.

TRAVIS: I would like to smash my Titanstone
Knuckles together and cast Enlarge on myself.

Gotta get some fire resistance because good god.

MARISHA: Big Grog!

LAURA: Whoa, what is that?

MARISHA: He's swole.

LAURA: I don't think we've seen this.

MATT: That's been it every time.

TRAVIS: Yeah, every time.

LAURA: But we haven't seen it! Haven't seen it up
close. Oh, Grog is scary as fuck! I'm sorry;

you're scary! Okay.

TRAVIS: Can I do reckless, Great Weapon Master?

MATT: Yes, you may.

TALIESIN: That's something Travis would say.

LAURA: Put me down?

TALIESIN: It's something Travis would say.

TRAVIS: 26?

MATT: Yeah, that hits.

TRAVIS: Nice. 37 on the first.

MATT: How do you want to do this?

(cheering)

TRAVIS: (singing) Happy happy (war cry).

TALIESIN: Happy birthday.

MATT: After it finishes vomiting you up and you
get off the ground, still feeling the sizzling of

its salivary liquid on your body, you sing this
song to yourself as it rights itself. Its mouth

opens once more. You bring the axe down right above
its head. You crack the center of its armored

plate. The top of its head caves in and you watch as
the eyes go dull and the body collapses and falls

to the ground, unmoving. Its body is still there,
though, because it's very big. It only loses about

two feet of height as it collapses, and it's still
blocking a large portion of that hallway right

now. That's your first hit. You still have half
of your movement, still, because you used half of

it to get up from prone.

TRAVIS: Should I try and push him out of the way?

LAURA: Just vault over it.

TRAVIS: Yep, I'm going to (leaping noise) over the
side, hardcore parkour. One-handed.

SAM: Duke boys, sliding over the hood of the car?

MATT: Using your boots, or just making an athletics
check as part of your movement?

TRAVIS: Yeah, let's use the Boots of Feral
Leaping.

MATT: Go ahead and make your athletics check.

TRAVIS: That's going to be a 26. 27. Towards you.
Towards his left. Yep. And I'll move up.

MATT: You have 25 more feet.

TRAVIS: I do, don't I?

MATT: You can use your piece. Look at that!

TRAVIS: Can I get around here on the ground?

MATT: Yeah, you could. You can make an acrobatics
check to see if you can avoid the lava as you do

that.

TRAVIS: Yeah, I want to!

MATT: All right, make an acrobatics, not athletics.

TRAVIS: Acrobatics. 16.

MATT: 16? You just barely make it around that
corner, curling around. Yeah, you don't go

foot-first in the lava, like somebody else did
earlier.

MARISHA: I'm picturing Grog being like (intense
grunting, careful inching, intense grunting).

MATT: That's about where you can get to.

TRAVIS: I'm right there, yeah.

MATT: That's the end of your turn, Grog. Scanlan,
you're up.

SAM: As my holy self, imbued with the holy power
of whatever I am, I float up a bit, draw my

greatsword that I always use to attack because I'm
awesome and bring it down real hard on the head of

the thing.

MATT: Go ahead and roll for an attack.

LAURA: Are you naked with a sword hanging from
your hip?

LIAM: He's hitting it with his dick.

SAM: No, I'm naked with a sword. I've got a belt.
I'm naked with a belt.

MARISHA: He's Mr. November.

SAM: That is 21.

MATT: 21 hits. The babies don't have quite as hard
armor. As you bring the greatsword down, you

strike with a large swipe of bright, divine
radiant energy. As it slams into the top of its

head, it explodes with radiant power.

SAM: Do I roll, or do I use these stats?

MATT: You roll damage. The stats are for me. 4d6
plus seven slashing.

SAM: Seven, 12, 18 plus seven is 25. Plus I need
5d8.

MARISHA: Oh yeah! Use mine! They just did very
good.

MATT: Yeah, dude. Planetar form isn't messing
around.

LAURA: He didn't shake them, you just put
them on down. That was the shadiest roll ever. If

you did that in Vegas, they'd be like, "No."

TRAVIS: The pit boss over here disapproves.

SAM: Plus 14. So that's 39, right?

MATT: 39, yes.

SAM: On my first attack.

MATT: So first off, I forgot earlier. Grog, you
did take another seven points of fire damage from

being in the proximity of the corpse, which is still
emanating heat, by the way.

TRAVIS: Halved, because I have resistance from the
enlargement now.

MATT: Correct. Well, at the top of your turn, you
got that, because you did not enlarge inside. And

you also, as your planetar form, did take ten
points of fire damage in your proximity to that

one there, as well, so mark that. However, you,
with that first strike, slam down and cleave the

head in half. You watch as the baby's head
(gravelly shriek). It had taken 49 damage before

from her Chain Lightning. So with that second hit,
(whack) it (gurgles) and falls to the ground, no

longer moving. There is only one currently living
child on the battlefield.

SAM: All right. Well, then I'll say a silent
prayer for the fallen and then fly backwards super

fast to the other one (whoosh) and attack again!

LAURA: Maybe you can make it a pet.

SAM: Oh. 18.

MATT: 18 still hits.

SAM: Hey! All right. Look at all these crazy
things. 12 plus-- that's not very good. 12 plus

all those.

MATT: That was 12 plus seven?

SAM: That's right. 19.

MATT: So 19 damage.

SAM: (counting) 19. Whatever I just said. Is that
19 plus 19?

MATT: 19 plus 19.

SAM: 34?

MATT: 38 damage. That kills it, yeah. So you hack
one down, dart across the way with your blade

screaming in the air. It actually cuts through the
rock as it sparks across the ceiling. With what

little space you have, your wings open, slam down
on the second child and watch as its armored body

cracks open. The radiant blast expands and bursts
when the blade is actually dug a few inches into

its form, causing you to destroy it from the
inside of its armored shell. You watch as its body

inflates for a second, then falls limp as smoke
begins to pour from its wounds. So with that, you

guys have wiped out the current danger on the
battlefield.

SAM: I feel like there's more coming.

LAURA: No, that was it.

TRAVIS: We're just traumatized.

LAURA: The Core Anvil is going to float up
from the magma.

MARISHA: It's so hot.

TALIESIN: That's a complicated tray.

(laughter)

TRAVIS: As he herniates a disc.

MATT: Yeah. I pulled my leg earlier this week, so
moving up and down sucks. So as you sit there in

the silence there for a moment, just hearing the
occasional (plopping) with the nearby lava that

fills the nearby hallway, you don't feel any
further rumbling. There's just the heat emanating

from the corpses of these three magma bullettes.
What do you do?

TRAVIS: Can I look around for anything that
resembles an anvil or a shelf or something that

one might wackadoodle on?

MATT: Make an investigation check.

TRAVIS: Nice. Watch me knock this out of the
park.

MATT: I'd say more of a perception check for
this. This is less of searching for details.

TRAVIS: That's better. Still shitty. 11.

MATT: The pathway still continues to descend and
curve around, but that's it.

TRAVIS: The pathway still continues to descend
around.

LAURA: Wow. Very observant of you, Grog.

MARISHA: Descended around.

TRAVIS: What?

MARISHA: Copy that.

LAURA: Can we see now because of all the glow
coming from-- does magma glow?

MATT: Most of you, aside from Percival, can see
decently in low light, anyway, or have

darkvision.

TALIESIN: It's only been about 25 seconds, but we
do eventually have to breathe.

LAURA: Oh. I'll use my chalice.

MARISHA: Oh yeah. Pass the jug.

SAM: What about me?

MATT: You, as a planetar, let's see here.

SAM: I think I'm dying.

LAURA: What? Why?

SAM: I don't know. I think I probably need air.

MATT: Well, you have a pretty high con bonus. You
could hold your breath for seven minutes.

SAM: I'll do that. See how I fare.

LAURA: Do you still have Heroes' Feast?

SAM: No.

MARISHA: No, you do.

SAM: I don't think I do. I'm a new body.

MARISHA: No. True Polymorph, you absorb your gear
and you don't benefit from it, but it doesn't say

anything about you not benefiting from--

MATT: Previous spells and bonuses. That's an
interesting point.

TALIESIN: The soul is imbued with Heroes' Feast,
not the body.

MARISHA: Correct.

MATT: Okay.

SAM: Interesting.

TALIESIN: See, it's all there.

(laughter)

LIAM: But we're along the path to the water that I
saw.

MARISHA: The gear melds into the new form. The
creature cannot activate, use, wield, or otherwise

benefit from any of its equipment, but it doesn't
say anything else other than equipment.

SAM: Thank you, Lindsay Lohan.

MARISHA: You're very welcome.

MATT: I'll allow it.

SAM: I still can't breathe.

MATT: You still have the same effect earlier that
she put on you, so you still have the water

breathing.

SAM: Oh! So I can breathe some water. All right,
cool.

MATT: You're flying in here with the small space
you have. Being a large creature, the fact that

you even flew across-- you were only a few inches
off the ground as you darted over. It's only about

ten to 12 feet, and you're maybe nine feet tall.

LAURA: You're 12 feet tall, so you're hitting the
ceiling?

TALIESIN: I'm going to start peering around the
corner with the flashlight.

LIAM: We're under two minutes away from the water
I previously made it up to and didn't go into,

correct?

MATT: Correct. You're maybe 40 seconds away from
it.

TALIESIN: I'm going to head that way.

MATT: You guys dart around the corner and follow
the next pool. You have your means of passing

water around, keeping yourselves viable. The path
continues to curve in a haphazard spiral. It

curves around and you watch as it passes, evens
out, and then goes into a fairly steep decline,

a 45-degree decline.

LAURA: Should I try flying down there with the
broom?

LIAM: We're 30 seconds away from the water. I've 
already gone this way and come back to you guys. Unless

something has jumped in the hole while I was gone
in that time, I've already covered this ground.

MATT: This is further than you covered. There's
the pool of water you saw, and if you continue

around that way, you can see it curve as you
glance around and it descends in a steady

decline.

TALIESIN: The pool of water is just a pool of
water.

MATT: It's a small, little pit.

LAURA: I'm going to recast Pass Without a Trace on
all of us, P.S.

TALIESIN: I can follow you down there, too,
because I've got my boots on.

MARISHA: Do the two twins want to scout?

MATT: The pool of water, by the way, as you glance
down and look past the surface, it does have a

cylindrical tube that is feeding the liquid into
it, but it's much smaller. It gets to that big of

a pinching point before it vanishes out of sight.

LIAM: Of your hands?

MATT: Of the pool. Continuing down the path of the
tunnel, as it curves around and goes into the

decline, it continues and maintains its width of
about 15 to 20 feet on either side. You glance

down the decline, and there's a portion of the
ground that opens up and glowing molten rock

slowly drips and dribbles down for about 40 or 50
feet.

SAM: I'm going to cast Detect Evil and then
wordlessly speak to you all.

LAURA: Oh, in our brains? I like it.

SAM: I say: Brothers and sisters. Allow me to
guide us by the spirits of my religious faith down

into the depths of this hell place.

LIAM: While he's talking, I turn to my sister and
go--

LAURA: Are you still you, Scanlan, just in another
body?

SAM: Yes, my child. Inside.

TRAVIS: Boners and wangs.

LAURA: It's weird that you're nine feet tall, but
your penis is still a cube.

SAM: That's by choice.

(laughter)

SAM: So you can recognize me if I die in a fight
and you have to go to a lab and identify the body,

you'll be like (fake crying) oh, it's him!

LIAM: And they shall know him by his cube.

LAURA: Sorry. Yes. Lead the way.

MATT: You glide down your own way. The air is
extremely warm as it passes by you. Holding your

breath at this point, because you are not near any
source of water, it looks like, and you're not

carrying one with you. You glide down, rapid speed
past the lava, which eventually comes and cools in

a clump, a small mound where it seems a recent
hole punched out of and began to dribble down.

It's been cooling and causing this extra layer on
the tunnel. Everything here seems to be in this weird

state of flux. You continue past it, and it drops
into a tunnel below, maybe about 20 or 30 feet

wide. Descends downward.

SAM: Straight down?

MATT: Straight down.

SAM: I'll go down a bit.

MATT: You descend about 30 or 40 feet. This
cylinder-like tunnel comes to a halt; it stops.

SAM: Am I detecting any evil?

MATT: You are not detecting any evil, no. Do you
have darkvision in this form?

SAM: I don't know! Where does it say?

MATT: It says truesight. You don't have
darkvision; you have everything vision.

TALIESIN: Predator vision.

SAM: I can also speak every language!

MATT: Given that case, as soon as you land, you
look up and you can see across the rock here,

there is one portion of the wall that is smoother
than the rest in a concave perfect square across

the opposite side. You can see faint runes or
glyphs that are pressed into the stone, like part

of it has been untouched for quite some time.

SAM: Is there writing or is it just symbols?

MATT: Because you can read any language, right?

SAM: It says languages: all.

MATT: Yeah. Okay.

TALIESIN: This is the most irritated I've ever seen
Matt.

LIAM: This is because of the planetar, not Ioun?
Planetar. This is how you must stay always.

SAM: I agree.

MATT: Glancing at the glyphs here, there are roots
of magical, arcane glyphs here, but whatever

enchantment there was here is very faint. It's
more about the message or image that is set here.

It is an exit seal. It is a final word of those
that utilized the space within. It translates to,

"Here the Crafter's Halls lay dark, the means of
making the World Ender gone. Allhammer protect us all."

SAM: Allhammer. Wow. I don't know.

MATT: The Allhammer. Make a religion check.

LAURA: The Allhammer was--

TRAVIS: You're not there.

SAM: Looking. Religion. I don't know. 11 plus I
don't know.

MATT: Recalling that information, you have this
information in your mind, I'll say. As long as you

didn't roll a one.

LIAM: You don't remember it, but you remember it.

MATT: The Allhammer is one of the prime gods of
family, craft, and construction of fine, important

things. It is the patron saint of all craftsmen,
blacksmiths, forgemasters, artisans, and from the

information you received from Ioun, the creator of
and last user of the Core Anvil.

MARISHA: So is it "the Allhammer lies beyond"? "Is
dark"?

MATT: It was an exit phrase placed on this door by
the last person who was in this.

MARISHA: Here the Crafter's Hall remains dark, the
Allhammer--

LAURA: Watch over us.

MARISHA: Watch over us. Something about watching
over us. Yeah, validate free parking.

TALIESIN: Objects in hammer are closer than they
appear.

SAM: I'll fly back and report to the rest in my
pristine body. My pristine, hairless body. And

that is what I saw.

LAURA: That was all in our heads?

SAM: Yes.

TRAVIS: I think that's what we're looking for,
right?

LAURA: Yeah, let's go.

LIAM: It was a flight down, yeah?

SAM: Hold on one second. (blowing water bubbles)

(laughter)

SAM: I'm back to being pristine.

MATT: Just so everyone here understands, imagine
between most conversations, there's somebody doing

that into a small jar of water.

SAM: (blowing water bubbles) And it's all cloudy
now from everybody.

LAURA: How often can you re-up that jar? Oh god,
it's nasty water.

LIAM: You're motorboating a gravy bowl.

SAM: It's like a horse trough. There's hair.

MATT: It is getting a little thick.

(laughter)

MATT: Oh god.

LAURA: Should we head down there? Did it seem like
you could pass through that door?

SAM: Oh, I didn't try the door.

LAURA: You didn't try to get through it?

SAM: Sorry!

LAURA: It's all right. We can find a way. It's
just a door.

SAM: It's just a door; we'll be fine.

TRAVIS: Yeah, we're great entering doors. Great
history with doors. Let's go.

MATT: Who's doing what to get down there?

TALIESIN: I'm walking down there.

MATT: You (footsteps) on the side.

LAURA: I am flying down with the broom. Does
anybody else need to ride? Do you need to bamf

your wings out, or do you want to get on the
broom?

LIAM: I'm going to save those. I'll get on the
broom. You're offering me a ride on the broom!

TRAVIS: I've got the carpet.

MARISHA: I'll take the carpet or whatever.

MATT: Grog and Keyleth on the carpet. You two on
the broom. You flying. We're good. The rest of you

guys descend down at a 45-degree grade and make it
past where the lava stopped and cooled and

collected and thickened up. Eventually, you find
the area where it drops off into darkness below in

this cylindrical tunnel. You make it down the 30
or so feet to where it stops. It takes you a

moment, based on where Scanlan points you towards,
but you can make out the runes he was mentioning.

Percy, you're the only one who can read them.

TALIESIN: More of that. All right.

MARISHA: What? What does it say?

TALIESIN: It's a "shop's closed," I suppose.

LAURA: Can we reopen it?

MATT: No indicator of that. It was essentially,
(door click) "Key is locked up forever. Bye! Bless

"this seal."

LAURA: Bust through this shit or undo it? Do we
have a way to cancel the seal out?

MARISHA: So it's quite literally a family
business. We're closed, retired. Bars in front of it.

MATT: You get that sense. The forge was made by
and for the use of the Allhammer, and the

Allhammer is locked somewhere on his own plane
across the other side of the Divine Gate and has

been for 800 years.

LIAM: We've got a god-made doorway in front of us.
Something-made door, right. Natural rock around it

or is everything carved?

MATT: Natural volcanic rock. It's that same
crumbly, porous black stone.

TALIESIN: I'm going to touch the doors.

MATT: It feels like the rest of the surrounding
stone.

TALIESIN: There's no obvious mechanism for
opening it?

MATT: Make an investigation check.

LAURA: Can I pray to Pelor?

TALIESIN: That's awful. No. Six.

MATT: No current sign of anything.

TALIESIN: Anytime I look for anything worthwhile,
I stare at rock going, huh! Found a rock.

LAURA: I'm going to pray to Pelor. I don't know if
it makes a difference.

MATT: What are you going to say?

LAURA: I'm going to say: well. We are here at a
doorway. I don't know if you speak to the

Allhammer, if you know anything about this, but if
you have any way to help us get through this, now

would be the time. Trying to do good work here for
you and all of mankind.

TRAVIS: What about your bean?

LAURA: Oh yeah. Well, I'm going to take the bean
out and say all that shit again with the bean in

between my hands. I'm going to whisper it to the
bean because it's part of him.

MARISHA: Can you hear the ocean?

MATT: Ocean bean. Putting the words and thoughts
out there. Prayer is still a foreign thing to you

that you're still learning to do.

LAURA: That's why it was so good.

MATT: There's no words that respond, but you do
get a warm sense pushing you forward. You get the

idea from whatever guidance Pelor is sending your
direction that you can translate from your only

recently somewhat-faithful heart that you're on
the right path. That's as much as you can muster

from the conversation.

LAURA: Thanks.

TRAVIS: I don't want to jump the gun, but I did
punch a volcano today. This door, probably not too

big a tuna for me to filet, you know what I mean?
Unless the runes say, "If you punch, melt you will."

SAM: It didn't say anything like that.

TRAVIS: It didn't?

MARISHA: It seems like it's just closed.

LAURA: Are they glowing runes? Are they magical
runes? Do they seem like they're magic?

MATT: This is an interesting point I should have
recalled. Grog, are you still in your large form or not?

TRAVIS: Yeah.

MATT: How did you use the magic carpet to get
across? That carpet will not carry you in your

large form.

TRAVIS: Oh, good point.

LAURA: You're little. Or you could have--

TALIESIN: Just slid down.

LAURA: Oh yeah, could you have stretched to either
side and he does a Ninja Warrior shit down the

tube?

TRAVIS: Well, we don't know how wide. How wide?

LAURA: Well, that's what I mean.

MATT: The passageway heading downward would
probably be somewhere in the neighborhood of

between 15 to 20 feet.

LAURA: What about a Wonder Woman situation where
you (impacts). Because you got the siege gauntlets

on? And you make handholds?

LIAM: How long a drop was it?

MATT: Well, the drop wasn't the issue. It was the
40 feet of lava that was curling down.

TRAVIS: You could fly down and put me in the
necklace, if you want.

LAURA: Yeah, sure, that's what I did. Popped
Trinket out, flew back up, grabbed Grog, came back

down.

MATT: From a logistical standpoint, I recalled
that.

TRAVIS: Good call.

MATT: Okay, so what are you guys going to do?

TALIESIN: Are the runes glowing? Are the runes not
glowing?

MATT: No, the runes aren't glowing. You get the
sense, Scanlan, that it was less that they were

glowing, more that your truesight revealed the
presence--

SAM: To me, everything is glowing a little bit.

MATT: You are a little Neo in the Matrix in this
new physical form.

TALIESIN: Tommy Wiseau is what I'm getting from
this. I'm going to take the Sun Stone out of its

little container, and really light up the room,
and just illuminate the whole room now.

LAURA: Is there a door knob or anything that looks
like a seal?

MATT: Make an investigation check.

TALIESIN: Thank you, somebody.

LAURA: 18.

LIAM: 22.

MATT: 22. Glancing about, with the help of his
light, as well, you look and you can see most of

the rock is jagged and broken in places, and as
you feel the edges, some parts flake off

relatively easy, and when you get to the section
of where that rectangular piece of the wall is

that the glyphs are put across, it looks like it's
a little smoothed over, like someone smoothed it

down to make this intentional seal, but there's no
sign of any sort of keyhole or handle or

anything.

LAURA: Maybe you could push it?

TRAVIS: Let's try being polite, first. I will
knock on the door.

MATT: It's heavy stone.

TRAVIS: All right, fuck this. I try and push the
door either in and to either side.

MATT: Make a strength check.

LIAM, LAURA, and MARISHA: Go Strongjaw, go!

TRAVIS: 17.

SAM: You're inspired.

TRAVIS: Oh yeah, I'll use that shit.

MATT: It's a d12.

TRAVIS: Oh, it is? Oh shit. Awesome. 26.

MATT: 26! You jam your hands into the wall and
push. As you push and shove, your fingers are

grinding and breaking the actual stone until they
feel something metal. It goes from crumbling stone

to a metallic surface, and as you pull your hands
back a little bit, you pull away these giant

chunks of volcanic stone, the actual runes and
glyphs breaking around your grasp, and you can

look inside and see hammered, dark metal on the
other side. You then put your hand in and shove as

hard as you can, and with a very faint grinding,
you feel it give about an inch, then another inch.

And then eventually, it gives out suddenly, and
you watch as suddenly the entire square structure

falls inward with a slamming echo sound that
echoes again and again, down a stairway that

disappears from view about 20 feet ahead of you.

LAURA: Check for traps!

TRAVIS: You got it. Natural 20.

(laughter)

TRAVIS: That's not my thing.

MATT: Natural 20 doesn't mean you succeed,
necessarily.

LIAM: 18 for me.

MATT: All right. Both of you glance throughout the
initial--

LIAM: Grog, what do your elven eyes see?

MATT: -- steps into the hallway, which is now
littered with broken rock

for the first ten feet or
so, with a platform where the large rectangular

metal structure fell over. No signs of any traps,
no signs of any tweaking with the floor or walls

for any triggers. You do notice that the metal
surfaces here are a texture of rough, hammered

metal. You can see the series of small
indentations, like all these have been hammered

into place, and it looks like the seams where
these large metallic wall slabs would be have a

thin little placed bar over those, as well. You've
gone from central volcano, natural, emerging and

expanding rock and lava to a place of very
intense, intended construct.

TRAVIS: I feel like this is it.

LAURA: Would my greedy eyes know what kind of
metal it is?

MATT: Make an intelligence check.

SAM: It's all pewter. Pewter everywhere.

LAURA: Intelligence. Investigation?

MATT: Well, this would be just an intelligence
check. Just a straight modifier.

LAURA: (laughs) Oh! Ten.

MATT: Ten? (sighs) You're not entirely certain of
the metal. It is a dark, dull, slate gray. A

little darker than that, even, and elements of the
edges appear to be almost red. Almost like a rust

or ruddy color, but you don't recognize what type
of metal it is, necessarily.

LIAM: I'm stealthing. I'm stealthing down the
steps.

LAURA: I did cast Pass Without a Trace on all of
us again a while ago. I said it. I even marked it

off after the fight.

MATT: Okay. You rolled a natural 20?

LIAM: Yep. Using a Luck. But yeah.

MATT: Using Luck. You've used three Lucks today.

LIAM: Three of my four, according to your campaign
guide?

MATT: The campaign guide was something that was
for other people to use...

(laughter)

MATT: As sort of an inside joke for the previous
more than three Lucks.

LIAM: Well, that was my third, not my fourth.

MATT: Right, I'm saying for the purposes of the
guide being released and you embracing your

fate-touched nature and the extremely dutiful
adherence to the law of your Raven Queen... sure,

I'll give you a fate-touched additional fourth
Luck.

MARISHA: He's throwing you a bone.

SAM: You know why? Because he knows Liam bought
the book.

LIAM: I did buy the book. I bought the book in the
first hour.

SAM: I bought the book, too. What do I get?

MATT: You get an awesome angel dick.

(laughter)

LAURA: Your one-inch cube suddenly grows.

LIAM: To two inches!

MATT: Angel wang, by the way, is a good band
name.

TRAVIS: (singing) Angel wang.

MATT: All right.

SAM: I'm going to fly over to Vex and wordlessly
say to her, be honest. Do you think I'm more

handsome like this or as normal Scanlan?

LAURA: I'm going to think in my head, Scanlan's
the best.

SAM: Be aware that as a divine being, I can sense
any lie.

(laughter)

LAURA: Scanlan, darling. You're fucking hot right
now, all right? But I love you like you were.

You're always my favorite when you're just
yourself.

SAM: All right. Thank you. I turn my little naked
butt to her and fly away.

(laughter)

MATT: All right. So, this hallway that you guys
have pushed through now, it's about 20 feet wide,

30 feet tall, and this long ceiling gradually
curves to an apex point, like two adjoining sides

of a roof. And it continues to progress forward,
and then descends with the staircase.

TRAVIS: Are the walls hot to the touch, since
they're metal?

MATT: You put your hand out and feel it, and yes,
they are. Not like (sizzle), but your hand can

rest for a few seconds before you have to remove
it. They're very hot.

TRAVIS: We progress forward into the room down the
stairs. Wherever the stairs lead.

MATT: All right, so. You leading?

LIAM: Yeah, I'm 60 feet ahead with my 47 stealth
right now.

MATT: Right. Okay. So as you begin, first thing
you notice, the steps? They're long steps. They

are about three feet wide each step.

LIAM: God-sized.

MATT: So you're having to like, step, step, step,
leap down a few feet, continue again, leap down a

few feet, and each of you are doing this. Who here
does not have magic boots?

MARISHA: Me.

LAURA: I mean, just part of my armor. If that's
not boots, then it's probably just the front

guards, huh.

SAM: I don't.

MATT: You're flying. You're fine.

LAURA: But I've got my broom. That I just said I
was on.

MATT: Correct. So you're fine. You, as you're
walking, the ground is very hot, and you can

continue to move your feet in a way where it's not
too bad, but you get the sense if you were wearing

normal boots and not the usual Ashari-made,
leather setup that you work on, they would

probably be melting across the metal floor here.

LAURA: You want to hop up on this broom?

MARISHA: Oh, I'm just-- big strides. Big strides!

LAURA: All right. It looks awkward, but stay
there, if you'd rather.

MARISHA: I try to look more normal while still
taking big strides.

TRAVIS: It's not working.

MARISHA: No?

MATT: All right, so. The air itself now smells of
very caustic fumes mixed with the smell of burning

coal, but there is oxygen now in this chamber. You
can breathe. There's enough air to actually get a

lungful here and there, though it is still thin,
and there is still the toxic fume here that had

you not had the Heroes' Feast, you'd be having a
rough time. But you're not having to constantly

dip into the jug anymore.

TRAVIS: Did one of y'all growl just now? That was
you?

TALIESIN: That was me.

TRAVIS: Or did it come out of the speaker?

LIAM: You don't know.

TRAVIS: That shit scared me.

(laughter)

TRAVIS: That shit was too loud from a weird
direction. I got all haunted house for a second. I

was like, (gasps).

MATT: I cannot wait to get to Halloween Horror
Nights with you again.

LIAM: Travis Willingham's fatal flaw.

TRAVIS: I'm quick as hell. (laughs)

MATT: You are quick. That's why we leave you ten
feet ahead of us.

TALIESIN: You are the best jump scare.

MARISHA: One of these days you're going to break
someone's nose.

TRAVIS: I know. Ah! I'm so
sorry!

(laughter)

MATT: It's going to be glorious. Anyway, as you
descend the staircase, you ahead, make a

perception check.

LIAM: All right. I'm going to use your Pelor die.
Hey, that's good. Perception, you say? 27!

MATT: 27, okay. You continue down for about two
minutes or so, and even glancing ahead to the edge

of your visual range here in the darkness, because
there is no light source below at this point...

the stairs are continuing and continuing and
continuing, and you have no idea how long it'll go

for, but you begin to sense as you're walking, and
you hear this faint rhythmic, bassy rumble of a

low, nearly inaudible, drum-like beat, deeper than
any sound you've heard, quaking the ground ever so

faintly. (slow, rumbling pulses) And you can very
faintly feel it. You get down and move your

fingers to the ground, and for the moments before
the heat gets there, the next time you hear it,

you can feel a very faint vibration, only because
you are very perceptive at the moment.

LIAM: Is it exactly rhythmic? Precisely?

MATT: I'd say, with your high perception check,
you can tell that yes, it is precisely rhythmic.

LIAM: I think there's some sort of god-sized
machinery ahead of us. I think we're getting

close.

LAURA: Did you lose your earring because you're an
angel now?

TRAVIS: No, he keeps all his stuff.

SAM: I don't have the earring, but I can talk to
you telepathically in any language. How about

Italian, darling?

(laughter)

LAURA: Stop being creepy, Scanlan.

SAM: I sense my hour is coming to an end soon.

MATT: You guys are about 20 minutes out, both you
and Grog, before you lose your forms.

LIAM: Do you know binary? One, zero, zero, one,
zero, one, one, zero, one, zero, one...

MARISHA: Speak in Morse code.

MATT: Another ten, 15 minutes of descending these
stairs that seem to go on and on and on, and you

guys are starting to hear this (low rumbling), but
it is getting steadily louder the further down you

climb, Vax. You begin to see along the metallic
walls, occasionally, shapes in the metal. And you

glance over, Vax, and look, and you can see,
carved from the metal, humanoid, armored warriors

standing about ten or so feet tall, larger than
normal. Their poses vary. Some of them are on the

side, some of them are attacking, some of them are
defending, and about every 25 or 30 feet or so,

there will be one on one side or the other.

LIAM: Are they standing free, or are they carved
from the wall?

MATT: No, they're from the wall.

LAURA: They're drawings?

MATT: They're reliefs. They're metallic reliefs in
the wall.

TRAVIS: Not some metal Medusa that turned them
into metal?

MATT: Made of the same metal, it looks like, as
the walls around them.

TALIESIN: I'm going to quickly inspect one.

MATT: Make an investigation check.

TALIESIN: I'm rolling terribly. Nine.

MATT: Nine.

LAURA: I want to look at them, too. I want to fly
up on my broom. I was going to say it and then he

said it.

TRAVIS: Please don't be golems that will come out
and fight us.

LAURA: Investigation? 22.

MATT: 22? Glancing around the seams, these appear
to be just reliefs in the wall. There is no deeper

seam. Their proportions are flattened. They are
designs in the wall.

TALIESIN: Does the style indicate anything?

MATT: The craftsmanship is extraordinary, the
detail. Because you rolled so high, you can tell

that these are just reliefs in the wall, but up
until that point, it looks like the detail in the

nooks and crannies are so microscopic, you can see
texture on the skin, almost. Like pores carved in.

It's immaculate. It's artistic, the level of
detail put into these.

MARISHA: Grog. Do you trust this?

TRAVIS: To what are you pointing?

MARISHA: The reliefs, the people in the wall?
Okay. It was a hypothetical question.

TRAVIS: Right. Do I trust the art?

MARISHA: Just to be safe, I cast Freedom of
Movement on Grog. Just in case.

TRAVIS: Ooh. I start popping and locking.

MARISHA: So loose. So free. So much movement.

MATT: So that lasts for an hour, great.

LAURA: I'm going to be stealthy. I don't want to
be noisy.

MATT: Okay. Roll stealth, please.

LAURA: 32.

MATT: Okay. So what is the marching order here,
please?

TRAVIS: I don't actually mind taking the lead on
this one.

MATT: Okay.

SAM: Do we have five minutes left, or less?

MATT: You're pushing about ten minutes or so at
this point.

TRAVIS: I think five to ten minutes, actually.

LAURA: Yeah, you had said 15.

TALIESIN: I love walking on the wall.

SAM: We could stay like this forever.

TALIESIN: So I'll be in the middle of the group,
walking on the wall.

SAM: I'm so beautiful.

TRAVIS: You look over and Scanlan's going
(kisses).

SAM: So symmetrical.

LIAM: I'm actually going to hang back.

MATT: Okay, so Vax behind. It's Percy and Grog up
front.

LAURA: I'm going to go up behind Percy.

MARISHA: Yeah, I'll be with Vex.

SAM: I will fly up next to Grog and put my Healing
Touch hand on his shoulder and heal him a lot.

(hums) 31.

MATT: You heal 31 hit points, Grog.

SAM: Oh, plus three. 34.

MATT: There you go.

SAM: And you're also freed from any curse,
disease, or blindness that you have, just FYI.

LIAM: I'm also going to dump 20 hit points of Lay
on Hands on my own damn self.

MATT: All righty.

MARISHA: Wait, is that ding to your saving throws
considered a curse?

MATT: It is a curse that can only be broken by a
god.

LAURA: If he fucking brings it up to a god. He
doesn't even realize he has it.

TRAVIS: I tried to talk to Pelor, but people were
like, "No, don't talk to Pelor."

LAURA: What are you fucking talking about?

TRAVIS: What are you talking about?

MATT: Grog, continuing the charge forward, taking
the steps, eventually you begin to see a source of

some light. A faint, orangish-red light. Your
initial instinct, based on your previous travels

through here, is molten rock. It's a very similar
orangish-red color from this distance. As you

descend, step upon heavy step upon heavy step, you
watch as you can see a square orange opening

below. As in, the pointed hallway that leads you
down comes to an end, and the stairs descend into

a chamber.

TRAVIS: I'll go in.

LAURA: Would Trinket's little feet hurt if he was
on the ground?

MATT: Do you want to put Trinket out of your
necklace?

LAURA: Well, I figure I would have tried to put
him out when we got in the tunnel, but if his feet

were hurting, I would have put him back in the
necklace.

MATT: I would say Trinket's not comfortable,
yeah.

LAURA: Okay, I'll keep him in, then.

MATT: Okay. So. As you descend, Grog, the
staircase continues below as the hallway comes to

an end, and you find yourself descending into the
center of a massive hexagonal chamber. The walls

climb about 25 feet on each of the hexagonal
sides. There's one flat wall ahead of you, and you

assume probably one behind, though you cannot see
it from your current perspective on the staircase.

You can see that the walls are still made from the
long plates of intricate, hammered metal, black

and red-tinted with dust and rock and whatever
other materials were forged into the actual metal.

The support girders of dark red metal marks the
seam at every wall-plate, like when you entered

the hallway above.

Central to the chamber ahead of you, across the
wall that you see there, there is a glowing pit of

heated coals, about 15 feet on any side that marks
the floor before a giant, metal wall with two

X-shaped cross beams that hit the corners of where
that wall begins on each side. And in the center

where they meet, you see a raised relief of solid
gold bolted there that surrounds an opening of

some kind. There's a space in that golden relief.

TRAVIS: What's the floor look like from here to
there? The same surface?

MATT: Same metallic surface.

TRAVIS: Any seams, or just smooth?

MATT: Well, no, for the floor in here, it would be
fairly smooth.

LAURA: How high off the ground is that relief?

MATT: It's 25 feet to the ceiling, and it's
halfway down, so it's about 12 and a half feet in

the center, so from the ground, you'd have to get
up to see it.

TRAVIS: I move closer towards that.

MATT: Okay. You walk up, and you come to the very
bottom of the last step. (grunts) Leap onto the

ground, walk forward to the edge of where the
coals are, there at the base of your feet. You

glance up and you can see it. Make a perception
check.

TRAVIS: Hold on. 17.

MATT: All right, you glance up and you can see the
relief of solid gold. The opening in it is

triangle-shaped, roughly one foot across from
point to point, like that. It comes into a

triangular point. And it's about that size; it's
about a foot, and then a foot, and then a foot.

LAURA: I think you're supposed to stick your hand
in it, Grog.

TRAVIS: It's just the triangle shape, right?
There's nothing else around it?

MATT: It's a weird rough circle, and then the
triangle is carved into the center of it. The two

walls immediately to the right and the left of
that, where the hexagonal pulls back to each side,

you see two more of those metal warrior reliefs
that you saw earlier in the hallway.

TRAVIS: And the coals are in a circle?

MATT: The coals are in a square section, a 15
by 15-foot square section of the floor in front of

you that leads right up to the wall with the giant
X meeting the seams in the relief.

TRAVIS: (sighs) Might have to Tony Robbins this
shit, right?

LAURA: Does it look like anything's supposed to go
in the triangle? Does it look like a keyhole?

MATT: It looks like a gold relief that has a
triangular hole in it. That's all you can see.

LAURA: Can we see how deep the hole goes?

MATT: You'd have to get closer to it.

LAURA: I want to get close to it on my broom and
look at it.

MATT: All right, you fly up above the coals, and
the heat emanating from the coals below you is

extremely hot. You can see it warping the air
above it, so you have to protect yourself a bit

and squint the eyes, and you swear you can smell
the scent of burning hair. And you get up close

and you can see the relief, perhaps some sort of
triangular or pyramid-like shape would slip into it.

It looks like all the corners eventually converge
to a point on the interior of it.

LAURA: Okay. All right. I back up so that I'm not
in the fumes.

TRAVIS: Is there anything else in the room besides
the two reliefs on either side that we can see? Tools?

MATT: Do you guys want to walk around the back of
the staircase? As you guys move around the back of

the staircase, the wall on the opposite side of
that relief contains a third armored warrior

relief embedded in the wall. You can see there are
four pillars right along the side of where the

staircase descends that contain bolted-in, large
braziers that contain ever-burning flames,

flickering, that give that orange-red glow,
similar to the coals you saw embedded in the

ground as you arrived. And then on the back side
of the staircase and the column that held it

aloft, you recognize it immediately, Grog,
strangely. Because while you've not cared or

understood what these things are before, suddenly
you know what it is. You see a large metal-- it

looks like a well, almost, but there is a furnace
built into it and a number of tools that are

hanging to the side, small tongs and heavy leather
gauntlets. This is a smelter.

LAURA: Oh, that's where we have to smelt the
platinum. Do we see anything around the room that

looks like it could fit in that pyramid shape?

SAM: I'm going to cast, again, Detect Good and
Evil, and do a swoop around and see if I sense any

creatures or magically consecrated objects.

MATT: Okay. You swoop around the room. You detect
no evil. You detect no magically consecrated

objects. And at that point, the spell's about to
fade or become permanent.

SAM: (sighs) Big choice.

LAURA: You mean, you'll stay like that forever?
You can't undo it?

SAM: Yes, my child. I will drop the spell.

MATT: Okay. And with that, a smaller Scanlan form
appears, the planetar angelic form vanishing, and

he drops about four feet and lands on his feet on
the ground.

SAM: I feel my back, covered in hair. I'm back.

MATT: And a moment later, Grog, your form drops as
well, and you revert back to normal Grog size.

Still massive.

TRAVIS: So we're supposed to smelt the platinum,
right? Melt it down. And then we use our magic

beans to make the Prime Trammels.

TALIESIN: Do I understand how this triangle
works?

MATT: This triangle does not at all resemble any
of the designs that you had imbued upon you.

TALIESIN: I'm going to hop up to take a better
look at it, as well.

MATT: Okay. So you walk up the side and look into
it and you can see it's a triangle, and then

pushing inward, all the points converge on the
inside where it would fit a pyramid structure,

about one foot on each side, corner to corner.

TALIESIN: And the point at which they connect, is
that about a quarter size, would you say?

MATT: The point where it connects, it goes to a
complete point.

TALIESIN: Complete point, okay.

TRAVIS: And that relief is in the middle of two
crossbeams? So you couldn't push the crossbeams

over and lay it down flat?

MATT: Well, the cross beams are bolted to the
actual wall.

TRAVIS: It's not something we have to lay flat.

LIAM: Did you say there were two metal warriors?

MATT: There are two metal warriors to the right
and left and then one on the back wall.

LIAM: And are they separated from where we are by
hot coals, or can you walk right up to them?

MATT: The only hot coals are the ones that reside
directly beneath the relief.

LIAM: Okay, so I'm going to check one of those
out. See if it's any different than what we passed

in that hallway.

MARISHA: And you said there were three warriors?

MATT: Yes.

LAURA: And we can get to the smelter right now, or
it's beyond the crossbeams?

MATT: The smelter is on the other of the room,
behind the staircase.

LAURA: All the shit we need?

MATT: Yeah.

LIAM: 24.

MATT: 24. You approach, and look up into the
warrior, and you can see the three of them are all

in the same stance. They're all standing square.
They all are clutching a long greatsword in one

hand. The other appears to be open to either
receive something or hold aloft something that's

not there, and they're all facing forward.

LIAM: I'm shooting my wings out as I walk up to
them, as well.

MATT: Okay. (whoosh) Your wings arc outward.
Looking ahead, you can see the armored helmet that

adorns its head that normally would pincer to
where the nose is, and you can see the pores of

the face. The helmet is one, big, domed curve on
top, and where a face would be, there is no face.

There's the outside of the head and a similar
triangle gap in the face that's smaller than the

one in the relief. You glance over quickly into
the other warrior, and the third, and all three of

them are faceless, instead having an empty
triangle that disappears into the face.

LIAM: It goes inward like the big one.

MATT: Yes. But they're smaller.

MARISHA: While he does that, I stand in the
middle. Are the three warriors triangulated, if

you were to draw out a triangle between them?

MATT: In the hexagonal room, yes, they would be.

MARISHA: In the same shape?

MATT: It seems to be. Close enough, at least,
based on the construction of the chamber.

TRAVIS: What did the reliefs have in their hands?
Weapons? Swords? Axes? Hammers?

MATT: No, they're all greatswords, but they're
also part of the relief embedded in the wall.

TRAVIS: Okay.

MARISHA: And one open hand.

MATT: One open hand. It's embedded in the wall,
and the other one is open to the side. But the relief is

all embedded in the wall, and you can see the 
triangular opening. The only thing that darts

inward is that vacuous shape in the face.

LAURA: This is where Vox Machina dies because they
can't figure out--

TALIESIN: We can't figure out how the triangle
works.

MARISHA: Is there anything on the floor? Any
patterns on the floor?

MATT: Make an investigation check.

SAM: The smelter, is it active right now? Is it
hot?

TRAVIS: Yeah, the coals are cooking.

MATT: The smelter is low, but it's burning.

SAM: What if we have to make something
triangular?

LAURA: Yeah, to fit in those things.

MARISHA: 13.

MATT: 13? Doesn't appear to be. The floor is
pretty solid. There's no real detail that catches

your attention.

TALIESIN: Let's start smelting.

LAURA: Yeah. Might as well.

SAM: What if we take those beans and put them in
the little triangle holes? I don't know. In their

hands?

MATT: Well, the statues are in the wall and you
can see the outer shape, barely protruding from

the wall, so it would be hard to place something
in the hand.

LAURA: Yeah, we switched all our gold for platinum
in Vasselheim.

TALIESIN: Yeah, so let's start the smelter, at the
very least.

MATT: Okay. The bellows are there. The big old
heavy bellows, and Grog, you know exactly what to

do. It's a really strange phenomenon to be like,
"I've never done this," but it's second nature,

and you begin to get that forge to well and burn,
and brightly. You can see the flames and the coals

heat up from dull red to a bright orange to a
white at times, and as it heats up, you have the

tongs. What do you smelt in?

MARISHA: But what to smelt in?

TRAVIS: I'm going to walk across.

MATT: You get the sense here that smelting is the
heating and liquefying of metals: one, to remove

impurities, and two, to then pour into a mold in
which, when it cools, the metal makes the shape of

whatever the mold is.

LAURA: Can I fly up to the circle on the wall, on
the crossbeams? Does it come off?

MATT: You reach out and you touch the gold relief.
It's built into the wall. It's a smooth, shiny,

polished gold, but it's not moving at all.

LAURA: We can't find anything that makes a
triangle shape, a pyramid shape, in the room?

TALIESIN: The faces of the statuary. Maybe we
should prod them. We might as well start prodding

things, because nothing's going to happen if we
don't prod them. I'm going to crawl up to one of

the statuary soldiers and see if the helmet comes
off, or if the face is removable. I'm going to

start tinkering.

MATT: You reach up and grab the side and feel the
side of the face and reach into the inside of the

gap in the triangular void, if you will.

TALIESIN: That thing is going to go click, isn't
it?

MATT: No, your fingers slide in. It does come to a
vanishing point. It comes to a point like the

larger relief. Once you look inside and get a
glance with the little bit of light that's in

there, the shape on the inside of it is different.
It's imperfect and messed up. It's hard to see

what it is, but it's not a perfect triangle like
the rest. Also, immediately, you guys see there's

a flash of orange light that completely surrounds
the exterior of the warrior, and the two other

warriors, their entire outer line glows a bright
orange, and with that, you instinctually step

back--

TALIESIN: I step up.

MATT: Or yeah, step up, as all three of them
(heavy movement) step out of the wall. Unlike the

ones you saw previously that were pressed in and
relief, these have a little more dimension to

them, and the majority of their physical form was
embedded backwards into the wall. They all of a

sudden come storming outward, giant greatswords
swinging in front of them, as they all

immediately, the heads creepily with the open,
triangular void of where a face would be spin to

one of the nearby individuals in their space.

LAURA: Ooh, maybe we have to kill them and then
smelt into their faces.

TALIESIN: I'm into it. I like this plan.

MARISHA: Don't destroy their faces!

MATT: That's where we'll pick up next week,
because it is almost 11:00.

LAURA: All right. How tall are they? How big were
they?

MATT: They're about ten to 12 feet tall?

LAURA: And they're made out of metal?

MATT: They're made out of the same metal material,
it looks like, that the walls are.

LAURA: They're golems.

MATT: Constructs of some kind.

TRAVIS: Those crossbeams, do they look like
they're structurally integral to the room?

MATT: No. They're bolted against the far wall, and
it looks more ornamental, or at least there are

seams against that back wall to hold a relief
there or at least that's where the relief is

placed. You get the sense with more inspection,
you'd get a better feel, but it doesn't look like,

immediately at glance, it's integral to the
design. So! We'll pick up right at the beginning

of those large, metallic creatures emerging from
the walls and the ensuing conflict next week. In

the meantime, thank you guys so much for joining
us on the next crazy step of our adventure.

MARISHA: Happy birthday!

MATT: Happy birthday, yeah.

LAURA: It's still for another hour! Thank you,
Magic: the Gathering - Puzzle Quest.

MATT: Yes, thank you Puzzle Quest, Magic: the
Gathering edition for being our fantastic sponsor.

Thank you guys for watching. We'll pick up next
week, and then after that is GenCon.

LAURA: (laughs) Oh jeez.

MATT: So after next week is GenCon, so start
getting that ready.

TRAVIS: Oh shit. Oh my god, we're going right into
it.

MATT: Yep. (laughs) Two weeks. All right. Have a
good night, guys, rest well, thank you for coming,

and as always--

LAURA: I'll most likely kill you in the morning.

MATT: Is it Thursday yet? Good night.

[music]