MATT: Hello, everyone, and welcome to tonight's
episode of Critical Role, where a bunch of us

nerdy-ass voice actors sit around and play
Dungeons and Dragons. Before we go ahead and jump

into tonight's story, we have some announcements
to get through. First and foremost, tonight's

episode is sponsored by our fantastic friends at
Marvel Puzzle Quest.

(cheering)

MATT: Indeed. Returning to be awesome fans of the
show and friends and Sam do you have anything to

say about that?

SAM: We love Marvel Puzzle Quest and they love
that we love them. In fact, Puzzle Quest had a

bunch of critters come up to their booth at
Gen-con to say hi, and they wanted to thank the

community for being so awesome and welcoming. The
game is legitimately awesome. It is so awesome, it

is so epic that me talking about it doesn't do
justice. Really it needs another artform. One that

is an amazing theatrical experience and expression
of joy and emotion. It needs opera.

MATT: Oh no.

SAM: So combining Puccini and Marvel Puzzle Quest,
I give you an operadvertisement. Shit, that music.

TALIESIN: Wait!

SAM: No, it's okay. This is going to be terrible
anyway. (singing) The new SHIELD clearance level

nine lands today, bro. Better rewards and
challenges you can recruit Lockjaw the inhuman

doggo. For more chances to summon Black Bolt,
other Inhumans, and Kamala Khan, and boost the

power of your superhero squad. Last but not least,
for a limited time you can also recruit the Silver

Surfer and Thanos and Star-Lord and the cosmic
legends pack. (speaking) Oh shit, I forgot my

props. (singing) From now until the 30th of
September. Marvel Puzzle Quest. Marvel Puzzle Quest!

(cheering)

MATT: Wow! Well done! Thank you, Sam, and thanks,
Marvel Puzzle Quest. It's available for free on

the Apple App Store and Google Play. Next up.
Merch, what have we got?

LAURA: We got these.

(cheering)

SAM: Hey, how do you say it? Is it Dalen's--

LAURA: It's Dalen.

SAM: Thank you. Jesus.

LAURA: Yeah, because you said it wrong. Speaking
of Talks Machina, though-- No, that wasn't Talks

Machina. When I announced these shirts on Talks
Machina. My brain. There's a new shirt for Talks

Machina. You should check it out in the store.
It's got "Stay Turnt" on it. It's a thing for

Talks Machina.

TRAVIS: Yeah, man. It got Foster in front. Stay
Turnt.

LAURA: 8-Bit Foster!

LIAM: It's cute.

LAURA: Have you seen it, Ashley?

ASHLEY: I have, and I may have one. I almost wore
it tonight, but it is in the dirty hamper.

MATT: That's a good reason.

LAURA: Also, there's all the other stuff that I
always say.

MATT: Also, Ashley, we miss you.

MARISHA: We miss you so much!

LAURA: Look at that pretty face!

MARISHA: You in your little pink hat! We just love
you.

MATT: Okay, next up. (laughs) I regret everything.
No, issue one of Critical Role: Vox Machina

Origins is out. Super excited. I'm really proud of
it. Matt Colville did an incredible job.

LAURA: He did such a good job with the dialogue.

MATT: I know. Encapsulated the characters,
especially the characters early in their arc.

Olivia Samson's art captures the mood and the feel
so well. Chris Northrop's color and his lettering.

Everyone did an amazing job on this. If you have
an opportunity to check it out, it's available on the

Dark Horse Comics app, through our friends at Dark
Horse or ComiXology and other avenues from there.

Super proud of it, super excited.

LIAM: Can I get it on my Zune?

SAM: It's only on PalmPilot.

MATT: You can get it on Kindle, Nook, iBooks,
Google Play-- I should have read the list.

TALIESIN: I made that list specifically so you
could reference it. That's fine. I do these

things. It's okay. I don't mind.

MARISHA: Also, all the updates are on Geek and
Sundry right? Don't tweet the same question 30

times to every member of the cast. Don't do that.
Just look it up on Geek and Sundry. You're going

to get a quicker answer, though, if you look it up
on Geek and Sundry.

LIAM: We knew we picked the right people for the
job, but even so, it far exceeded our

expectations. It came together really well.

ASHLEY: It's so good.

LAURA: We've been freaking out.

TRAVIS: We've been reading it out loud. Pretending
to be those characters.

MATT: Yeah, Sam hates it, though.

SAM: I love it.

MATT: Needs more Scanlan.

SAM: It does need more Scanlan. It's a good start.
It's like season one of The Office. Pretty good,

but it gets way better.

MARISHA: American Office or British Office?

SAM: American.

MATT: All right, of course we have Talks Machina
next Tuesday at 7:00pm Pacific Time here on Twitch

and Alpha to discuss tonight's episode. So you can
check it out then with our fantastic host Brian

Foster.

Laura and Travis, you're going to be at Anime
Weekend Atlanta.

TRAVIS: A.W.A. next weekend. Friday, Saturday, and
Sunday in Hotlanta. Come see us.

LAURA: We're going to say hi. What are we doing
there?

TRAVIS: We've got panels. We got autograph
sessions. We got chances to take pictures, and eat

food, and we're going to run through the quad
streaking.

LAURA: Yeah, he is. I'm going to take pictures.

TRAVIS: Tequila. Yeah, so that stuff.

MATT: Fantastic. It is Subtember on Twitch. If you
haven't had enough cash to throw towards subbing to

your favorite Twitch channel, for the month of
September, you get half off for doing so. If

you're interested in doing that, this is the
month to do it. Go look into it.

Last but not least, as many of you are aware in this
string of natural disasters that keeps hitting,

there was a terrible earthquake that hit Mexico City and
the surrounding areas this past week. We want

to implore people to do whatever you can to donate
and help those who are currently recovering in

the relief effort in the areas that were heavily
hit by this earthquake. Having lived through a

number of earthquakes in my youth, it's a very
scary and very dangerous thing, and nothing on the

scale of what they're undergoing there, so if you
have the opportunity, we want to promote UNICEF

and Oxfam MÃ©xico. The links will be in the chat
soon, but if you can, please give. It all helps and

people who are in the middle of that scenario will
be very thankful. Thank you very much.

All right, on that note, let's go ahead and dive
in to tonight's episode of Critical Role.

[dramatic music]

MATT: Hello, and welcome back. You guys can
discuss this in a minute. Last we left off, Vox

Machina had been climbing their way through the
bowels of an undead risen primordial titan,

previously having found information about the
history of Vecna from the Knowing Mistress

regarding his ascension, the avatar form, and the
drive he needs to create a miracle before he can

truly embody and begin to grow the power to really
exemplify the abilities of the god that he has now

become. You began to make your way through the
interior where you battled corrupted earth

elementals that existed in him naturally. You
began to battle undead skeletons and undead

trolls. Eventually, after making your way towards
a series of key-trapped rooms, one of which seemed

to be some sort of mirrored incinerator, you made
your way towards an upward tunnel and encountered

a number of disciples, cultists of the Undying
King, Vecna.

In this confrontation, you encountered
face-to-face a Sphere of Annihilation, and through

some clever uses of short-range teleportation and
losing one's face, you managed to stop them

before, one, they destroyed your party, or managed
to escape to alert others of your presence, and

last we left off, you all were resting within that
hallway, thinking about what the next course of

action is.

So, Vox Machina, what would you like to do?

TRAVIS: Cry? Hold each other.

MARISHA: So we were going up a tunnel?

LAURA: Yeah, we need to keep going up. Oh,
somebody needs to heal Scanlan.

TRAVIS: I think it was the other side of your face
last week.

LAURA: No, it was the same side.

LIAM: I palm Scanlan by the face and cast Lay On
Hands. How bad are you, buddy?

SAM: You know, medium.

LIAM: Medium?

LAURA: I think it's more like when your toe was
missing. I think it's like that.

LIAM: I'm dumping 29 hit points of paladin power
into your face.

MARISHA: Isn't that most of your paladin power?

LIAM: Yeah, it's all but one.

MARISHA: Oh dear god.

LAURA: But what if you needed that?

MARISHA: We've got other people who can do healing
spells.

MATT: As he reaches out and his fingers touch the
side of your face, you feel the muscles tighten

and the skin begin to reform. As he pulls away,
there's still a little bit of reddish rash or

irritation of fresh skin, but the scarring seems
to have subsided and your face is intact.

SAM: Am I handsome again?

LIAM: We like you handsome.

TRAVIS: I liked the new way. This is old "I know
this" face.

SAM: Yeah, I'm sorry. I'm boring. I bore you now.

TRAVIS: Just a little bit.

SAM: I'll get a tattoo.

TRAVIS: Okay.

(laughter)

TRAVIS: What are we doing now?

LAURA: We need to keep going forward. Either try
to make it up this tunnel, or we can try going

down that path that the Sphere was forming. I
don't know what that is.

TRAVIS. It didn't go all the way. It just started.
I looked.

LAURA: Oh, okay. Then we keep going forward.

TRAVIS: I think it's a chunnel, actually.

LAURA: A chunnel?

TRAVIS: Yep. Small difference.

LAURA: What's a chunnel?

LIAM: That's a tunnel that goes under the English
Channel. Wherever that is.

LAURA: So forward then, huh? Where's everybody at
health-wise? Are you solid?

LIAM: I'm pretty good.

TRAVIS: I guess I'm all right.

LAURA: Pike? How are you?

ASHLEY: I think I'm okay.

LAURA: You got hit a couple times in that last
fight.

ASHLEY: I did. I think I'm okay, though.

LAURA: All right.

MARISHA: Is this a short rest that we're doing?

MATT: That's up to you guys.

LAURA: That's up to us. We could take 30 minutes
or just keep moving.

TALIESIN: Let's keep moving forward.

TRAVIS: Look, I know we haven't said it much, but
Pike, I am glad you are here. I just felt like

saying that.

ASHLEY: Me, too. I know we have been here this whole
time, but thank you for instilling confidence in

me yet again.

TRAVIS: Yeah, no problem.

ASHLEY: Love you, Grog.

TRAVIS: Love you, Pike!

MATT: All right, so you guys are continuing up
the staircase?

TRAVIS: Yes. Sneaky fucks in front.

MATT: Marching order? All right.

LIAM: Sneaky fucks in front.

LAURA: Should I do Pass Without a Trace, because
they might have some inkling suspicion that we're on--

SAM: How many more of those do you have?

LAURA: Well, I've got one level two spell left and
all my level threes. I can cast it at a higher level,

because most of my spells are pointless at this
point.

TALIESIN: I'll go behind the twins.

SAM: I'll go behind Percy.

LAURA: I'm going to cast Pass Without a Trace.
Everybody's got plus ten to their stealth.

TRAVIS: Pike and I got the rear.

MATT: Trinket is in your necklace or out now?

LAURA: I'm bamfing him back out.

TRAVIS: But we are being sneaky.

LAURA: Yeah, but we've got Pass Without a
Trace.

SAM: Famous last words.

MATT: Trinket is out and being stealthy.

LAURA: Yes.

MATT: Perfect. As you continue up the stone
stairway, you said you were looking for traps? I

figured.

LIAM: Always.

MATT: Slow moving up the steps as you slowly are
looking for-- okay, go for it.

LIAM: For traps, for investigations, that is 18.

MATT: Okay. You continue up the staircase, the
steps being wider than the previous ones you've

seen before. Eventually, you pass through the
carved tunnel of a cave-in up the steps. The next

chamber reveals itself naught but 25 feet upwards. It
opens up. You find yourselves standing within a

small building ruin, but the walls have fallen
around you. You can see the bare structure around you.

Elements of the base floor, rubble and broken
slate. You see around you what must have been a

once-colossal courtyard or a commons for the
dwarven city of Thomara, with varying levels and

paths and platforms holding rare types of now
petrified leafless trees scattered amongst this

thoroughfare, climbing up dozens of feet like
frozen bolts of lightning forever reaching in

vain. You see dead-littered paths, weaving between
stout multi-leveled buildings of Thomara make,

corpses that have been torn apart and are
twitching, shifting on their own, the occasional

hand pulling its way across. Whatever bits and
pieces of undead here remain, they are not

functional. They have been so sundered through the
ages or other sort of confrontation, and yet are

cursed to forever twitch and wander.

Your eyes, as they focus in on this interior, you
glance to the opposite side. You see the ghost of

this past beauty of the city surrounding you is
now currently defiled on a mass scale. Over half

of this 300-foot-wide cavern appears to have
collapsed or is currently crushed under an

invading mass of black earth and rock, unlike the
rest of the titan's interior. The familiar smell

of wet earth and ancient decay is now mixed with
another familiar scent of cold ash and iron dust,

the smell of the Shadowfell.

At this distance, you can see the rough shape of
three carved archways at the base of this inverted

mass of earth that curves down and collapses half
of this cavern. About 40 or so feet apart. You can

see at each of these entrances, there are some
figures, some shapes. They are too far from you at

the moment, hundreds of feet away from you, to
make any sort of clear vision, but you see a few

bits of torchlight in the distance and shifting
shadows near those entrances.

LAURA: Are we in a dark tunnel? They can't see us,
right?

MATT: Currently, you guys are emerging from
underneath in this small rubble. There is no

light in here. The only bit of light you can see is
some of that bio-luminescent fungus that you had

in that previous tunnel and the torchlight across
the way.

LAURA: Should we put out your hands? So that they
can't see us? Well, there's a bunch of people off

in the distance.

LIAM: Want me to go take a look? You've dusted me.
I'm pretty quiet.

LAURA: Yeah, but you have to stay within 30 feet
of me--

SAM: 30?

LAURA: 30 if you want to keep Pass Without a
Trace. 60 to stay within the ring.

LIAM: I'd probably be good without it. And we could
go together about 50 feet away from the group, and

then I could go a little bit further and see if I
can get a better look.

LAURA: Let's stick around to the sides.

TRAVIS: Vast space? Big, wide open?

MATT: It's a wide space. As the cavern opens in
this large, dome-like interior path, loosely

kidney bean shaped or a wide oval, half of it is
currently crushed and occupied by this darker mass

of Shadowfell earth.

LAURA: It's sitting on top of it? That's the city?
The roots of the city crushing down--

MATT: That's the roots of the city crushing down
into this chamber.

TRAVIS: Could be a Rick and Morty portal to the
Shadowfell.

MATT: Where the titan ends and Thomara begins
would be this particular threshold.

LAURA: So we could go up from here? This is where we
go up. You can get that sphere again and tunnel up.

SAM: I have the sphere.

LAURA: I know, we go straight into the city.

MATT: Well, the sphere is back in the tunnel with
you. You can concentrate on it and bring it with

you and it moves at a very slow speed.

SAM: We haven't moved very far.

LAURA: We've only gone a little bit.

SAM: Sure, I'll bring it as far as we've gone.

MATT: Okay. Cool. So what's your intelligence
modifier, again?

SAM: Now it's three.

MATT: Three? So you can move it 15 feet a round.
It's slower than any of you.

SAM: Sure, but we're just walking here.

MATT: As you make your way up the tunnels, this
hovering ball of dense death and destruction is

(humming).

SAM: Simon Three.

MATT: Humming ominously, Simon Three makes its
way.

MARISHA: Does it make that sound?

LAURA: Is it noisy?

MATT: It does give off vibration and a noise to
it. You do hear the subtle hum.

LAURA: How far away from it do we have to be in
order to not hear the hum?

MATT: About 80 or so feet.

TRAVIS: That's further than I thought.

SAM: It's going to reveal our position, isn't it?

MATT: It's very faint sound.

TRAVIS: They are a couple hundred feet away.

LIAM: You still have Silence?

TALIESIN: We still have some cloaks.

SAM: We can put one on the Sphere?

LAURA: No, put them on us.

SAM: Disguise him! Put him in a hat, gloves.

LAURA: I'm going to instantly throw a robe over
top of Scanlan. You've got a robe on you now. I

put a robe on, too.

MATT: Okay, so you put on a robe and Scanlan puts
on a robe.

LAURA: Yeah.

MATT: All right.

TALIESIN: They know that the orb was with two of
the others, so as long as we keep the distance,

everything should be fine.

SAM: Oh, so now we're legit.

LAURA: Yeah, we look like we're with them.

TRAVIS: Hey, twins? How do our flanks look if we
move forward? Is it just trees? Is it buildings?

LIAM: I was about to ask. We see flickering light
far away, but I don't trust anything. I want to

specifically see if anything besides twitching
fingers and toes are hiding closer to us.

MATT: Make a perception check.

LAURA: And I'm listening for voices. Do I hear
anything?

MATT: Perception check.

LIAM: 24.

LAURA: Oh, 19.

MATT: Okay. Between the both of you focusing in
the still silence, you can hear very faint distant

muttering of conversation, briefly, on the
left archway. But around you, aside from the

small skittering of an occasional hand that is
crawling its way forward, you don't see any

full-bodied undead. In fact, in comparison to the
chamber you'd exited more than an hour ago, which

had hundreds and hundreds of wandering undead,
this is mostly vacant of anything that isn't

directly at those archways.

LIAM: Which are how far away from us?

MATT: They're about 150 or so feet. They're right
at the center part of where the chamber

would be, where the earth of Thar Amphala's
current resting place begins.

LAURA: We're not within the distance of 80, so
they wouldn't be able to hear the orb.

SAM: Okay, great. Send it straight at them, then.

LAURA: Definitely.

TRAVIS: (laughing) Super slow.

(laughter)

MATT: Austin Powers it.

TALIESIN: It could in theory collapse the arches,
if you were so inclined.

TRAVIS: Yeah, but we're in here.

LAURA: We could collapse all the rest of the
tunnels and we go straight up into the city.

TRAVIS: It's a tiny ball.

MARISHA: Sounds a bit like bringing the city to
us.

TALIESIN: How big is the ball, again?

MATT: The ball is about two feet in diameter.

TALIESIN: Grog's not going to fit in that hole.

SAM: It could curlicue up.

TALIESIN: I don't trust you as a sphere artisan.

SAM: But with you by my side, your engineering
wits and my ball-handling skills, we'll be fine.

TALIESIN: As legendary as your ball-handling
skills are--

TRAVIS: Make a ball-handling check.

TALIESIN: Roll 2d6.

LIAM: I volunteer as tribute!

TALIESIN: I don't see how I could possibly help
with this.

MARISHA: I'm afraid it might slow us down.

TALIESIN: Here's a question, if you start thinking
of it going in a particular direction, does it

keep going in that direction?

SAM: Or does it have a radius where it stops
listening to me? Let's give it a shot.

TALIESIN: We could send it in a direction?

MARISHA: Yeah, that's fun.

LAURA: Yeah, let's send it off towards one of
those torches.

MARISHA: Destroying everything in its path for
forever.

SAM: Let's find out, right?

TALIESIN: Or we could send it straight up.

SAM: I'm going to concentrate on Simon Three and
send it back the way we came. Not hitting

anything. Just to see how far it goes before I
lose telekinetic connection with it.

MATT: It continues until it's out of sight. So it
starts digging and burrowing--

SAM: Is it still going?

MATT: As soon as you send it downward at an angle,
it hits the floor and begins carving its own path,

tunneling lower and lower--

SAM: How far away is it now?

MATT: At this point? I'd say it's about 70 feet.

SAM: Okay. Come back!

MATT: It begins to slowly come back in your
direction.

TALIESIN: You finally found a worse pet than
Trinket. Well done. I love Trinket.

LIAM: By the way, what direction is Vecna from us
now?

MATT: Sourcing it would be upwards, at an angle,
from where you see the base of Thar Amphala. It's

in that direction, at an upward angle. You get the
sense that this is near the edge of the city.

LAURA: Can we see any light from above us?

MATT: Other than the very faint bio-luminescence
left by the little patches of dull orange here and

there that give you a sense of the overall
scope and enclosure of the chamber, no other light

source. There's no opening.

LAURA: So the option is really to keep moving
forward and find our way out.

TRAVIS: Same option as ten minutes ago.

MARISHA: The figures in the distance. Can we tell
by scale how big they are? Do they look humanoid

or bigger?

MATT: Make a perception check.

MARISHA: Don't fuck me, Gil.

TALIESIN: To control the sphere, is it just will?

SAM: It obeys me because I asserted my dominance.

MARISHA: 21.

MATT: The left archway, you see two torches being
held by two human-sized figures, humanoid. Hoods

are down, but you can't see at this distance
anything beyond the size. They appear to be

surrounded by five or more dwarf-size skeletons
that are shambling in unison around them in one

uniform movement as they pace around the opening
to the archway.

The middle archway, you see another humanoid
figure, but armored. You can see the sharp edges

of plated shoulders and a helmet. And a few other
skeletal figures wandering around, but one. At the

very very edge of the one torch that it holds you
see one large hulking figure, about ten or so feet

tall. But you only see the very edge; you don't
actually see the rest of the body. All you see is

the edge of the shoulder or the beginning of the
side.

SAM: That's one way, right?

LAURA: There's three ways.

MATT: And then there's the right archway. You can
see three small-ish-looking humanoid figures. Two

that are very hunched, on hands and legs. 
Have a humanoid silhouette on the head and

shoulders, but they're down on the ground, almost
like a dog. Between the two of them, there is one

humanoid figure that's still hunched slightly, but
still standing upright, hooded and cloaked.

MARISHA: Do they appear to be looking for
something? Or are they wandering like a patrol?

MATT: As you watch them for a moment, you see
they do move a little bit, glancing around the

area, keeping a watch, but they appear to be
stationed there with a minor patrol in the

vicinity.

SAM: Can they see each other?

MATT: For the most part. They are about 40 feet
from each other. As there is a curve, the right

and the left archway probably have a hard time
seeing each other. The middle one has a view of

each. Occasionally, they'll interface; they
converse a bit between the two of them. But for

the most part they're definitely keeping a look
out. They're very vigilant and looking out into

the empty space before them.

LIAM: Seeing which way Keyleth is looking, Vax stands
a bit on tiptoe and puts his chin on her shoulder

and looks in the distance, and sees the armored
figure. Are we close enough to tell if that

armored figure has a sword?

TALIESIN: I can lend the scope of my gun, if that
helps.

MATT: Okay, that would probably help. Make a
perception check.

TRAVIS: What is that?

TALIESIN: Scope?

TRAVIS: Yeah.

TALIESIN: Just a series of lenses--

LIAM: 26.

MATT: So this is the central figure in the armor?

LIAM: Yeah.

MATT: It's wearing similar armor, not to the
knight you had encountered with Vecna, more the

blackened armored knight that you had battled at
the ziggurat on Marquet.

SAM: Wait, what?

MATT: When you first encountered Delilah Briarwood
and you found the pathway into the Shadowfell.

MARISHA: Is that the same guy?

MATT: Well no, you murdered that one. But it's
similar set of armor, yes.

TALIESIN: I let Grog look through the scope.

TRAVIS: (gasping) They're right here!

(laughter)

TALIESIN: I regret nothing.

MARISHA: (laughing) Ashley's face. Oh no.

ASHLEY: Are you scared?

TRAVIS: Look through the scoop. Look through it.
What do you see?

ASHLEY: I just see big guys. But I guess everybody
looks big to me.

(laughter)

TRAVIS: Pike's so brave. So brave.

LIAM: Through Skype, it's like my niece sat down
at the table to start playing.

LAURA: Can we scry on the death knight or on
Delilah to see if they're with Vecna right now?

Because if they're separate from him, then what if
they're in these chambers?

MARISHA: Yeah. I will use a 5th-level spell to
scry. As opposed to the Scrying Eye. Does my

Scrying Eye use my spellcasting ability? No, it's
15.

MATT: It's 15. It's tied to the item.

MARISHA: I'm going to scry on--

TRAVIS: Death knight.

LAURA: He probably would be less aware. If you
scry on Delilah--

MARISHA: She'll alert people to our presence.
Yeah. That death knight that seems to be the

right-hand man.

LAURA: We can scry through the ring, right?

MATT: What's the ring say?

LAURA: Hold on. I have to find it.

TRAVIS: I didn't even think about that.

LAURA: Band of Shrouds. While attuned, all
creatures and their belongings within 60 feet of

the bearer are immune to most divine magics that
would locate or reveal the whereabouts of the

creature.

MATT: You can scry outside of it, but you cannot
scry into it.

MARISHA: Yeah, let's do it.

LAURA: Most divining magics. That doesn't mean we're
immune to everything.

MARISHA: I want to scry on that big guy that was
with Delilah when I saw them walking out.

TALIESIN and MARISHA: Armor bro.

MATT: With your spell?

MARISHA: With mine.

MATT: Okay. Hold on.

TALIESIN: Matt's finding his murder sheet.

LIAM: How are your magical reserves?

MARISHA: They're all right. I'm using my last
5th-level spell for this.

MATT: You back up into the hallway to find a
space that isn't immediately visible and begin to

build the circle of incantation. The rest of you
keep watch in case anything begins to make its way

toward the entrance. As you complete the ritual, your
vision expands, and you feel your essence being

pulled up through the earth and rock, changing
from gray and brown to black and dead, until

eventually, for a brief instant, you see a burst
of the city of Thar Amphala, matching precisely

your memory of the inner sanctum of the city.

In an instant, there's a rush of momentum and
energy, and you see footsteps. You see before you

the death knight that you had previously
encountered in the struggle is stepping up these

dark, ruddy stone steps. One, two, three, you can
hear the echo surround you in this slightly

curving staircase.

MARISHA: Do I see Delilah?

MATT: You do not. Unfortunately, you see a very
vague image of a room that's disappearing behind

him as it curves around where you can see two
other armored figures similar to the one that's in

the center archway that are standing watch in that
chamber. They vanish as he curves around, and you

watch as he steps up, step-step-step.

MARISHA: Can I get any other details on where he
is? Can I see any other identifying landmarks?

MATT: Currently it's a windowless stairway that
curves.

MARISHA: Is he going upwards?

MATT: Yeah.

MARISHA: Oh, he's in a tower.

LAURA: Well, maybe. What else does she see?

MATT: You see a sudden swelling of greenish-blue
light as he reaches the apex of this staircase.

You now see the top of the tower exposed where
three large hooked, stone spires curve inward to a

familiar top of the tower.

MARISHA: He's trying to do it again!

MATT: Out of the corner of your eye, you see-- the
sky itself, from this perspective, has this

weird sickly blue-green tint to it, and as you try
and focus beyond the proximity of the knight, you

get a glimmer of some shape currently gliding in
the air above. Then a voice says "No," and--

LAURA: You were scrying on the death knight, not
Vecna!

TRAVIS: He doesn't know who it's from.

MARISHA: Or where.

TRAVIS: He probably detected it, but he doesn't
know who. Or where. Said the barbarian about the god.

MATT: Knowing, as you've cast the spell before, a
creature that can see invisible objects sees the

sensor as a luminous orb about the size of your
fist. Creatures that can see invisible can see the

source of a scry spell.

SAM: Can see the source?

MATT: Not necessarily, but they can see that
something is scrying on the space. As soon as you

kick back you're like, "Shit. That's probably what
it was."

MARISHA: Shit, that's probably what it was.

LIAM: He knows we're coming.

LAURA: There was that moment when you two were
falling to your deaths before we entered the

titan. You were away from me, so it's possible
that he knows.

MARISHA: I'm sure he knows we're around.

TALIESIN: Do we want to deal with these people or
get around them?

LAURA: Do we see any other tunnels that aren't
guarded?

MATT: Make a perception check.

LAURA: Whoa. That's a big fat no.

MATT: It's real dark, and you have to travel
deeper into the actual cavern space to try and see

any other tunnels.

LIAM: There's no peeling around the sides of this?
There's too much rubble and shit? This huge space

that we're in.

MATT: No, it encompasses the entire opposite side
of this. This was at one point a 250- to

300-foot-long cavern, but half of it is entirely
occupied by the base of Thar Amphala.

TRAVIS: Couldn't Scanlan look like one of the
mages we killed and walk up and be like, "All

"clear, everybody. Go home. It's all done."

LAURA: We can totally try that.

TALIESIN: What was his name?

TRAVIS: He had a name?

LAURA: He did have a name. What was the name? You
wrote it down.

SAM: The names of the people we killed? We know
their names?

LAURA: Yeah, you wrote it down.

MARISHA: Odell.

LAURA: Odell.

MARISHA: Tell Viscon we have visitors. I wrote
that in quotes.

SAM: I could be one of them. I have an orb of
destruction next to me that would seem like his.

TRAVIS: Yeah, you could walk it up real close and
be like--

LAURA: Be like, we're going to tunnel in this 
one now, so move.

MARISHA: Do you remember what Odell looked like?

SAM: Sure. We just killed him, right?

MARISHA: Odell seemed to be a more
high-ranking member of Vecna's forces.

SAM: Which was the one who was 
controlling the orb, though?

LIAM: Wait a second. Scanlan could do that, but he
can't go by himself! We all have to creep along with

him, or be found out.

SAM: I won't be alone. I'll have Simon with me.

LIAM: We all have to go together so we don't fall
out of range of her ring.

LAURA: This is true. We're going to be within 60
feet of you, very stealthily.

LIAM: We're all stuck together, unfortunately.

TALIESIN: Can you send them down there?

SAM: Send who down where?

TALIESIN: The rest of them to help the other-- We
tell them they need help down below, in the cavern

where we murdered everybody. You're Odell. Viscon
might be one of them. Send them down there to see

if there's a problem, then cave them in when they
all go.

SAM: How far are they from us?

MATT: They're about 140 or so feet.

LIAM: Send who?

TRAVIS: The people who are guarding the archways.
We trap them with explosives and shit.

TALIESIN: How is it that Grog is following me
right now? Am I making that little sense?

TRAVIS: Always the tone of surmise.

MARISHA: How many robes do we have? Are we going
to claim that we're there to relieve them of their

shift? Is that what you're pitching?

LAURA: No, we're going to say we're going to
tunnel in that area now, so they have to clear out

or else they'll be caved in.

TALIESIN: We send one of us up as Odell to tell
Viscon there's a problem down there and that we need

everybody to help because we found something.

TRAVIS: Yeah, we heard rumblings down there.

LAURA: Not people, don't let anyone know there's
people, but there's definitely something

interesting.

SAM: But you people have to be near me when I do
this. How is that going to happen?

TALIESIN and LAURA: We're going to hide.

SAM: Is there anything to hide behind?

MATT: It's dark, and there are a number of dwarven
buildings in various levels of disrepair and

collapsing.

LAURA: As we get closer, I can use Hide in Plain
Sight and camouflage all of us to where they can

walk by us and they won't see us.

LIAM: Additionally, we can play monkey in the
middle; as long as Vex is in the center you can be

50 feet or so ahead, and everyone else can be
either with Vex or back.

TRAVIS: Oh, this actually sounds like a plan,
which means it will go terribly.

LAURA: They're 120 feet from us?

MATT: 140, 150 feet.

LAURA: Okay, we'll move forward a bit, and then I
can camouflage all of you.

SAM: Wait, an actor prepares. Who am I? What's my
motivation? Am I Odell? If so, why does Odell have

the sphere with him?

LAURA: Because he's going to tunnel in that
tunnel.

TRAVIS: Look, Odell went to Vecna because his wife
left him because she's like, "Oh, you're not very

"powerful." And he's like, "I will find and show
you power." So you went to Vecna and you gouged

your eye out. But then your depth perception is
off now. So then you're like, "I'm going to work

"my way up through the ranks."

MARISHA: But then you went back and she was like, "Now
you're hideous. Now I'm not taking you back at all!"

And you were spiteful, so you went back and
turned to a life of crime and deceit.

SAM: Sure, I'll show her. I'll show all of them! I
like this. Good backstory.

TRAVIS: Pike, smack Scanlan. Let him know.

ASHLEY: I smack him on the butt. Go get them.

SAM: Wait. Who's Viscon? Which one is he?

LAURA: Odell was the one holding the sphere,
right?

MARISHA: Yes. Because one of the other minion guys
was like, "Odell, go tell Viscon."

SAM: Yeah, but he was running away. He wasn't the
one holding the sphere.

LAURA: Odell wasn't holding the sphere.

SAM: It was the green robe guy.

MARISHA: Who's the green robe guy, then?

LAURA: Gray. Yeah, it was gray. Hold on, I pull it
out and look at it. Yeah, it was gray.

SAM: Wait, we have the actual robe? Just give me
that.

MARISHA: Are they written on the tags like a
school play?

LAURA: Yeah, does it have his name written in it
anywhere so he keeps track of it?

MATT: Roll an investigation check.

SAM: Property of Jimmy.

LAURA: Oh, this is pretty good. 24.

SAM: "If found, return to--"

MARISHA: "Property of--"

MATT: This is which one?

LAURA: This is the gray robe.

SAM: I thought green!

LAURA: It was gray, the guy that was controlling
the orb.

MARISHA: You know these people have
anal-retentiveness issues.

LAURA: No! The red guy was holding the orb. The
green guy put up the force wall and ran away.

SAM: So we want the red?

LAURA: The red robe. I'm looking at the red robe.

MARISHA: Because the red robe was Odell.

LAURA: I don't know! We don't know.

LIAM: Vax starts quietly praying to the Raven
Queen in a corner right now.

MATT: Odell is the one that ran off.

LAURA: Okay, so that's not the one we want; we
want the one in red that was controlling the orb.

MATT: Viskorad.

SAM: Did we ever hear his name?

MATT: Yes. "Turn back and tell that Viskorad found
sneaky prey."

SAM: Viskorad. My name is Viskorad.

TRAVIS: Do you want to know his backstory?

(laughter)

SAM: I'll just use the same one.

MARISHA: Viskorad and Viscon are two different
people?

MATT: I might have mis-said it at the moment. I
was on painkillers.

MARISHA: So there is no Viscon, there's a
Viscorad.

MATT: Viscon I think is the name of an island
elsewhere.

(laughter)

TALIESIN: He's looking forward to vacation when
this is all over.

SAM: We know the other one was named Odell and
he's dead. So I can go over to them and say,

"They've killed Odell."

LAURA: No, don't say that there's anybody that
they need to watch out for. Don't set them on

alert! No, tell them you found something
interesting and Odell is investigating it.

SAM: So they need to go get what?

LAURA: They need to go down into the tunnel to
help him.

SAM: Okay, but what is the thing that we found?

TALIESIN: Anything you'd like.

MARISHA: Your long-lost wedding ring from your
past marriage.

TALIESIN: Not that, but yes. We found something
interesting. It's strange, possibly dangerous,

possibly useful.

LAURA: You definitely need help for it. Vecna's
going to be thrilled! Everybody's going to get

promotions.

SAM: Odell is still down there. He needs some
help. I'm going to go talk to Vec while they go

help Ode. Right? I'm going to put on my Hat of
Disguise and become as close to that man's form as

I can. Wait, was he a human? Was he an elf?

MATT: He's human.

SAM: He was human?

LAURA: So we sneak forward. Trinket's going back
into his necklace. It's too dangerous, buddy.

SAM: Moles and trolls. Red leather, yellow
leather.

LAURA: So as soon as we get within a hundred feet of them
I'm going to do Hide in Plain Sight on everybody

and camouflage everybody so that they--

MATT: Okay, so Hide in Plain Sight and
camouflage.

LAURA: On top of Pass Without a Trace. Hide in
Plain Sight.

TRAVIS: We could hide in a house, one of the
ruins.

MARISHA: We've got camo paint and camo clothes,
while carrying a bush.

MATT: Hide in Plain Sight is the camouflage you're
referring to.

LAURA: Just to disguise everyone so that they're
super hidden.

TRAVIS: Pike can get on my back.

MATT: Camouflage you can really only do on
yourself.

LAURA: I can use my ranger skills to cover
people!

MATT: Sure, you can Arnold-Schwarzenegger-in-Predator 
this for other folks.

LAURA: We're keeping within Pass Without a Trace.

MATT: I'll say make a wisdom check.

LAURA: To see if I can actually do it?

MATT: To see how well you manage to mask the
terrain nearby.

LIAM: I stand ten feet away from her and give her
a plus two. Oh, that's so low.

LAURA: I know. Eight.

LIAM: Plus two!

LAURA: Oh, a wisdom saving throw or a check?

MATT: A check. It looks like, unfortunately, the
shale and broken rock in this vicinity, it's hard

to find anything that would actually help hide
them, beyond their natural stealth roll. So you're

going have to rely on your Pass Without a Trace.

LAURA: So we have to stay within 30 feet of me.

TALIESIN: We'll stay in there. We're going to get
into the ruins and have our guns trained in case

anything goes wrong.

LAURA: Scanlan, stay within 60 feet of me.

MARISHA: Keyleth finds some black dirt on the
ground and gives a war paint.

TALIESIN: Remember, if anything goes wrong, it's
been a pleasure working with you.

SAM: Wonderful. We have the jenga. We can do the
jenga!

TRAVIS: You're the only one who'll be saying
jenga, pretty much.

LAURA: Yeah, you can do the jenga. What do we do
if it's jenga?

SAM: We kill everyone.

TALIESIN: We think well of you and move on.

LIAM: I'm going to stick close to Vex in case she
needs backup, but also if Scanlan needs backup.

Ready to run in.

ALL: Okay.

MATT: The only person going forward is you?

SAM: Yes.

MARISHA: Wait! Before he goes, I grab him, and I
cast Freedom of Movement on him. You can't be

grappled.

LAURA: Can you cast something to help his charisma
and his persuasion?

MARISHA: Yes, actually, I can, because Freedom of
Movement is not a concentration spell. So I'm

going to burn my last 2nd-level spell and do
Enhance Ability to give you--

MATT: Advantage on charisma checks?

MARISHA: Peacock's Charisma or whatever the fuck
it's called.

MATT: Note you have Freedom of Movement. How long
does it last? Is it an hour?

LAURA: An hour.

MATT: So you have Freedom of Movement for an hour.
Everyone else who's not going forward, make a

stealth check, please.

LAURA: It's plus ten!

MARISHA: Let's do the druid dice. Oh yeah,
that's good!

LIAM: Natural 20. 47.

SAM: You're going to be in triple digits soon.

TALIESIN: He appears in another game. Somewhere in
Deep Valley.

MATT: You go back and watch previous episodes, and
Liam's not there. It's really weird.

LIAM: Somewhere in the future, there's an
Acquisitions Inc. game going, and my head pops in

from the side, and then pulls out again.

MATT: I love it. Perfect.

LAURA: I got 43.

LIAM: That's pretty good.

TRAVIS: 22.

MATT: Pike?

ASHLEY: 20!

MATT: Keyleth?

KEYLETH: 32.

TALIESIN: 34.

MATT: Wow. That's some pretty solid rolls, guys.
You all stay as quiet as possible, moving along

the exterior of Vex's ability to move forward. You
move forward slowly while keeping Scanlan in

sight. You slowly begin to move forward, with
Simon Three humming slowly in front of you.

SAM: I am going to limp as I go.

MATT: Interesting character choice.

SAM: Strong choices, commit to them a hundred
percent.

MATT: You guys are quietly stepping through, and
you hear his footfalls echoing, and immediately

you see some of the torches shift, and there's
some talk and some whispering back and forth and a

small shout. You watch as some of the skeletal
entities at two of the entrances shift and look in

that direction, and begin to shamble slowly. The
two torch-bearers on the right begin to move

forward as the armored figure in the center
watches on, arms crossed. What are you doing? You

have three archways.

SAM: I go to the one that had that knight near it,
right?

MATT: That's the middle one.

SAM: I'll go to the middle one. I'm going to keep
the ball in front of me to obscure me a little

bit. Not dead in front of me, but it's up here,
just in case. Hanging my head a little bit. I'll

go up and say: Power! So much power! I've never
experienced anything like it before! Come! I need aid!

MATT: Make a deception check with advantage.

SAM: Okay, first one was better. Ten, plus-- what
is this?

TALIESIN and MATT: Deception.

SAM: 28.

MATT: The shambling skeletons to the left of you,
you can hear the scraping and clacking sound as

their bones rattle and shift across the stone
floor, pieces of rock being pushed as their feet

drag across the stone dwarven walkways. The two
torch-bearing, cloaked figures you can see

approaching, and they're talking amongst themselves.
One of them is currently holding some sort of a

holy symbol in their hand, and they're starting to
glow a bit. They're glaring forward. The armored

figure with the arms crossed puts a hand out like
this. They both look over and stop and hold in

place. The armored figure steps forward. You can
hear the armored footfalls across the stone. The

rot behemoth, which you now see emerging behind.
Rot behemoth, the entities you saw patrolling Thar

Amphala and two of them stormed into Sprigg's
house, begins to follow behind him.

SAM: So far it's going great, guys.

MATT: Every minute or two, you have the vibrating
footfall of the titan, and a few of the rocks fall

and tumble from the ceiling, and a bit of dust
begins to get knocked free from the high-up

ceiling of the cavern.

The armored figure approaches, gets within about
15 feet of you and stops. You see no face. This is

Magneto-style; there's space for the eyes and the
mouth, but it's too shadowed for you to make any

features out. It's this dark void. You can see the
hooked, spiked shoulders and the horns built to

come out of the sides of the helmet. Arms still
crossed before. "What did you say?"

SAM: We were tunneling with the orb, and we found
something. An ancient, dwarven artifact. It bends

reality. It changed things. It changed my voice!
It changed my whole world for a moment. It's still

down there. Odell needs help!

MATT: There's a pregnant pause, a stillness that
causes the back of your neck to grow warm. The

nerves begin to creep up the back of your spine.
Instinctually, your eyes begin to glance at the

two other archways as you see shapes shifting.
The armored figure gives a subtle chuckle, "Very

"well. Lead us to this find."

SAM: I have been injured. Take the orb, go down to
where we were, down that way. I will go get help

for myself. Odell needs you to help him contain
the power.

MATT: The head retracts slightly, confused and a
bit worried. He takes one step onto the back foot,

almost like it's not sure if it should be close to
you or not. It raises its hand back towards the

two other torch-bearing, cloaked figures and goes,
"Vislal, take the orb." One of the hooded figures

steps forward and takes a moment and concentrates.
The orb jolts towards him immediately and he

yelps. He's going to try again. Okay. With a
second try, you can see the sweat on his brow as

he begins to step backward, like, "I'm not really
good with this." Are you relinquishing your

control over it?

SAM: Yes.

MATT: So then he focuses for a moment, and the
orb-- you can feel the slight bit of will that you

had imposed over it has pulled back. The orb
begins to push forward slowly in his direction of

choice. You can see a smile come across his
hairless, older face. He nudges the other figure,

which you can see is a female half-orc who looks
heavily scarred across the chin and the side of

the neck, and they're both missing the
corresponding eye.

They both begin to move forward and slowly push
the orb past you. The vibration you hear getting

louder in your guys' direction as the armored
figure begins to follow suit behind. The rot

behemoth begins to follow, and the armored knight
goes, "Keep watch." The skeletons begin to move

backward with the rot behemoth. Now you have the
heavy footfalls of the large, looming rot behemoth

in the center walkway and a handful of skeletons
for that approach, blockading that, as the knight,

with the two other hooded figures, begin to make
their way towards the entrance where you guys rose up.

LAURA: You shouldn't have given them the Sphere.

SAM: What am I going to do with a fucking Sphere?

LAURA: Yeah, but we have to cave it in, and
they're going to see.

SAM: Wait, we're supposed to cave in shit?!

LAURA: We're going to cave it in after them.

SAM: Goddamn it, why didn't you tell me this
plan?!

LAURA: We did.

MATT: So they begin to walk forward and slowly
make their way towards the staircase that you guys

emerged from.

SAM: I'm not the best at this game.

LIAM: So we part, like the sea.

MATT: You guys part a bit, move around the sides.
Okay. You guys keep as quiet as you possibly can.

There's a brief moment, Pike, where your arm is on
the side of one of the stone walls, and a piece of

rock snaps and breaks to the ground. One of the
figures with the hood back stops for a second and

goes to look, just as one of the titan footfalls
impacts and the whole area shakes sending other

rocks tumbling around. It seems to be just enough
to distract. They continue walking forward. You

hear the hum of the orb as it slowly makes its way
past you, faint hint of a Doppler. You watch them

descend into the ruins that you emerged from, down
into the tunnel.

TALIESIN: So they can only move at the speed of
the orb, since they have the orb with them.

SAM: Well, they can move faster, but they won't
have the orb with them.

LAURA: Should we still cave it in, though, behind
them?

TALIESIN: How many creatures are left guarding
us?

MATT: Currently, you still have the cluster of
eight skeletons on the left one. There are four

skeletons and the rot behemoth in the middle, and
on the right, you still have one humanoid figure

flanked by two hunched humanoid figures.

LAURA: We can definitely take the skeletons out,
though, and sneak through, potentially, in that

one tunnel. We should still cave this shit in, and
it'll seem like a natural cave-in, right?

MARISHA: Skeletons we can handle pretty easily. So
wait, it's 12 skeletons, one rot behemoth, and two--

SAM: Don't you think the thing that the big thing
is guarding is the better path?

LAURA: Probably.

MATT: There are eight skeletons on the left path,
four skeletons and the rot behemoth in the center,

and then one humanoid figure with two crouched
humanoid figures on the right.

MARISHA: One humanoid, two crouched figures.
Okay.

LIAM: How spread out are those three groupings?

MATT: They're about 40 or 50 feet from each other
around a curved outcropping. From your

perspective, it's around this. The center can see
both; the right and left probably can't see each

other too well. It's dark and there's a vanishing
point around the curve where the far ends can't

make eye contact.

TALIESIN: Humanoids are the big problem.

TRAVIS: But they can both see the middle?

MATT: They can both see the middle, yeah.

MARISHA: Out of all of these, the human with the
two crouched things is what I'm most worried

about.

TRAVIS: Because we don't know what it is?

MARISHA: Well, and humans have common sense.

TRAVIS: Do we have a way to alienate these three
that are walking to go see Odell? Do we, or do we not?

TALIESIN: We have the gem.

TRAVIS: But we don't know what it does.

TALIESIN: It may make the undead move towards it.

LAURA and MARISHA: That's true.

LAURA: But should we cave in this fucking tunnel
so that they can't come back through?

MARISHA: How wide are the tunnel entrances?

MATT: They're about 12 feet wide and about ten
feet tall. And when I say they're arches--there's

simple stone placed and then built around to
maintain an arch, but they've been fairly recently

constructed and it's more like the very basic
beginnings of a mine shaft. It looks like these

tunnels were carved probably once Thar Amphala
arrived above the titan. So they're not extremely

stable, but they're stable enough for passage in
and out.

SAM: The guy who talked to me, is he still here?

MATT: He went with the orb.

SAM: Okay. Which archway did he come from?

LAURA and MATT: The middle.

SAM: Okay, I'm going to go up to the middle one
and say: Excuse me, big fellow. I have to get by.

MATT: Make a deception check. With advantage
still.

LAURA: Don't go too far from me!

SAM: 25.

MATT: 25? The rot behemoth glances at you. You see
its large metal cage-like helmet that guards its

sunken head that rests squarely in the center of
its chest at this point. The smell emanating from

it is this awful combination of rot and
long-putrid milk. You can see no face behind the

mask, just glowing red coals for eyes. As it
watches you as you pass, it doesn't make any

motion.

SAM: I'm going to go in through the archway.

LAURA: Don't keep walking fucking away from me!

SAM: I'm going to go a few feet in. Do I see
anything?

MATT: You can see it seems to curve upward.

SAM: It's stairs?

MATT: It's not stairs. It looks like the interior
of this was made with a Sphere of Annihilation,

like someone had taken a while-- because there's
no dirt, there's no mounds of dirt around it. It

looks like someone had been carefully carving this
path. You get the sense this sphere has been a

utility object since they arrived.

SAM: How far can I get before I'm away from 60
feet?

MATT: You have no idea where she is.

SAM: Well, I must have gone with them and then
gone forward.

MATT: Well, they have to follow you.

LAURA: Every time you move forward, I have to move
forward.

SAM: Well, you better fucking move forward. No,
I'm at the threshold of the entrance.

MATT: You walk about three feet past the behemoth
and stop.

SAM: I take a knee. (groans)

MATT: It slowly turns towards you.

SAM: I'm okay, I just need a second. (whispering)
What's going on?

TALIESIN: Move the behemoth away.

SAM: What's going on with my brain? (groans)
What's the plan?

TALIESIN: Move the behemoth away!

SAM: Okay, you can do this, man. Stand up.
(whispering) Lead him away? Where?

LIAM: Convince it that the people we sent away
need it.

SAM: I'll start back. I go back through and I say:
No, it's too dangerous. They need help down there.

I fall down to one knee again, and say: Ugh! Damn
these legs! You must go help them! They'll die

down there! Can't you see it's getting worse?! The
pain!

LIAM: Is that the DM's face, or the creature's?

MATT: Probably both.

(laughter)

MATT: Make a straight charisma check. You have
advantage because of the spell. You would.

SAM: Just charisma?

MATT: Just charisma bonus; charisma modifier.

SAM: 23.

MATT: Okay. That's all you're going to leave it
at? 23?

LAURA: You can inspire yourself!

SAM: Wouldn't it seem odd if I started singing to
myself?

LAURA: What if you're crazy?

TRAVIS: You're in a fever dream.

TALIESIN: I can assist in your inspiration.

SAM: How? You're 60 feet away from me!

TALIESIN: Can I assist in his inspiration?

MATT: Anything you do to assist will reveal you
from stealth.

TALIESIN: Including casting a spell?

MATT: Oh yeah.

SAM: Sure, I'll inspire myself. Why not? Oh, I get
to roll something.

MATT: Roll a d12 and add that to your 23.

SAM: Ooh, another eight!

MATT: Eight onto that? So a 31. There's another
long pause. Generally, an entity like this is

tethered to the will of one creature. In most
circumstances, it would not take any orders from

anybody outside of it. But somehow, your words get
it to consider in its simplistic, undead mind that

if its master is in danger, then obviously the
master would want help.

SAM: That's robotics law one, right?

MATT: Somehow, your force of words circumvent the
tethered command, and the behemoth begins to

hulkingly make its way, with the four other
skeletons, walking with the skittering of the

skeletons, away, towards where its master
disappeared.

LAURA: I'm going to wait until it passes by me to
whisper into my earring. (whispering) Maybe if we

all go down the middle tunnel, then we can
collapse that tunnel behind us.

MARISHA: Instead of collapsing three tunnels?

LAURA: Yeah. We make a run for it and then
collapse the tunnel. Because the other two tunnels

are going to see us once we get in the middle.

MARISHA: Okay. Yeah, I'm into this. Do people have
abilities to make sure these people stay back and

don't rush us while we get through?

SAM: They're idiots. Just go!

MARISHA: But there's a person thing.

LAURA: We stealth around the other side.

MARISHA: Yeah. Because the skeletons are better to
deal with.

TRAVIS: Are you talking about collapsing the
middle tunnel?

SAM: That we're about to go into.

TRAVIS: Should we entertain the idea of collapsing
the tunnel that we sent everybody to? But all the

danger, the majority of it, is behind us.

TALIESIN: We can stealth-kill these humans super
quick.

LAURA: Can you collapse the one they went down?
Then we'll collapse ours, too. Because the thing

is a Sphere that can--

TRAVIS: Even if you can just get the one. All of
them coming back or chasing us is going to be a

bitch. Even if it just slows them down.

MARISHA: This is all pretty much unworked stone
for the most part? Since you said it was all

self-carved. It's pretty rough.

MATT: Yeah, it's natural earth and stone. As
natural as the Shadowfell's slate and rock is.

It's unworked, for the most part.

MARISHA: I could go earth elemental, go into the
walls, collapse tunnel A. You guys make a run from

it. I can earthglide through the walls, get to the
middle as soon as you guys get through, and

collapse second tunnel. But it might take a little
bit. I don't know.

SAM: What about the 60-feet thing?

TALIESIN: We have to wait for the first wall to
collapse, then we may run.

TRAVIS: Make a run for it?

MARISHA: And I'll collapse tunnel one?

LAURA: Collapse tunnel one.

MARISHA: How far away is tunnel one right now?

MATT: Tunnel one, the one with the eight
skeletons--

MARISHA: No, the one we came from.

MATT: Oh, that one! With you guys having to keep
at the 60-foot radius with Scanlan, it's about 80

or so feet behind you.

LIAM: Another option: you said that these three
passageways, they curve this way, and that the two

on the sides don't have a really good look at each
other, right? On the left is a bunch of undead

fuckers, right? And on the right we've got a
humanoid and two little crunched over guys, right?

So you've got that Silence doohickey, and us. So
we could bet it all on stealth-kills, and creep in

and go. Leave it all behind. One in the middle's
now empty. One on the left over around the corner

is undead.

SAM: Who are you going to stealth-kill?

LIAM: Humanoid and two creepy-crawly guys. If it
pans out, we take them out, and the skeletons over

there can't see over here. If we are quick, and
then we go!

TALIESIN: Well, I would say collapse the tunnel,
then go.

LAURA: We still have to collapse the tunnel.

LIAM: All right. But kill them, and then make a
loud noise. Because as soon as we start shit

rumbling, everybody gets paranoid and upset.

TALIESIN: We'd have to be lucky.

SAM: They're probably getting down to Odell at
this point. We should hurry!

MARISHA: I can throw up a wall of stone to block
the tunnel we came from, and then we go and we do

the other stuff.

LAURA: Let's do it and go!

MARISHA: Okay! I'm burning the last of my shit!
6th-level spell Wall of Stone!

LAURA and MARISHA: The tunnel we came from.

MATT: So you create a stone over that entrance?

LAURA: Yes. Once they're all in there, we block
them in.

MARISHA: We block it up completely.

TRAVIS: If they're all in there.

MATT: Yeah, they've all been in there for about
two minutes, at this point.

LIAM: Can we say that the twins and Freddie have
been ready to go as you cast and make our move on

these three on the side?

MATT: Sure. Are you going for the three
humanoids?

LIAM: Yes.

LAURA: Are you sure? Those seem like the most
powerful ones.

TALIESIN: That's why we stealth-kill them now.

LIAM: Stealth-kill them and get the drop.

LAURA: So after that's up, we all move as a group
in that direction so we're within 60 feet of each

other.

MARISHA: Well, my spell is going to make noise,
right? Should you guys stealth-kill first?

TALIESIN: We could go for surprise kill if we
want.

LIAM: That's what I'm saying.

MATT: So you're waiting for them? You hold off.
You talk. You guys move over stealthily.

MARISHA: I stay with them as far as I can.

MATT: They don't seem to notice your approach.
Just the two of you?

TALIESIN: Yeah, I'm at great distance.

LAURA: What do they look like from this distance?

MATT: You see there's one hooded figure, hood up,
holding a torch with one hand, but the torch is up

above, so the shadow cast, you're not really able
to make out any features or so. You can see the

faint side of an older female face. That's all you
can make out. And you see two shadow ghasts, the

creatures that you saw leaping from rooftop to
rooftop in Thar Amphala, and one of them you

captured briefly at Sprigg's house. They're both
on chained necklace-like chokers, being held in

the other hand of this individual, like dogs.

LAURA: So we should kill her.

LIAM: I guess I'll start with her, then the
ghasts. I'm going to assassinate this woman.

Hopefully. Flick-flick on her.

MATT: Roll an attack. Both of you guys.

LAURA: Wait, is it an automatic crit because it's
surprise?

LIAM: Yes.

LAURA: Sweet! So 30 for attack.

MATT: 30? Awesome. Why is my music not working? 30
definitely hits. For you, Vax?

LIAM: That's 25 and 23.

MATT: All hit.

LIAM: Here we go. I'm going to dump a smite into
it, as well.

LAURA: 19 times two is 28 plus eight is 36 damage
on my first arrow.

MATT: All righty.

LAURA: Second attack.

TRAVIS: 19 times two? Is what?

LAURA: No, 38. 19 times two is 38 plus eight. 46!

MATT: There you go, 46 damage.

LIAM: First dagger to strike does 88.

MATT: So the humanoid figure in the center holding
the torch, all you see is them drop back to the

ground as the chains clank to the ground. The
torch clatters, and you see the light shift and

flicker. The two shadow ghasts immediately look
in your direction.

LAURA: Yep. That was one, so for my second
arrow--

MATT: Then the wall of stone goes over and covers
the top. And you start catching up to the rest of

the group? Grog, Pike? You're running to catch up
with Vex and Vax? You're making the second

strike?

LIAM: Yeah, I threw two daggers as part of the
surprise.

MATT: Go ahead. This is against which
shadow ghast, the left or right?

LAURA: I'm going left.

LIAM: You fired? To the left or the right?

MATT: You don't know.

LIAM: I'm going to fire at the same one that my
sister does.

LAURA: So 31 to hit.

MATT: All right, that hits. What'd you roll, Vax,
to hit?

LIAM: It was earlier I did it. They both hit; it
was 20-something.

LAURA: 19 on the left.

LIAM: Just seven for me, though, and that's all
I'm going to do.

MATT: All righty. Then you are shooting?

TALIESIN: First one is 32 to hit.

MATT: That hits.

TALIESIN: Second shot is 28 to hit. First shot is
terrible! It's 12 points of damage. I don't have

surprise bonus at all, do I?

MATT: No, because at this point they've already
been made aware.

TALIESIN: Second shot is-- oh my god, what a
terrible roll! Ten points of damage. Nope, I'm so

sorry! That's not nearly as bad as I thought it
was. 16 points of damage. That's way better. That

seven looked like a one.

MATT: Yeah, that's enough. Second shot destroys
most of the upper body of the shadow ghast on the

left. The loud gunshots going off in the cavern
echoes, and you see the skeletons beginning to

shift from the other hallway toward the direction
the gunshots came from.

TALIESIN: I'm booking it.

MATT: As you guys are rushing up, you manage to
catch up to the rest of them as the final shadow

ghast (snarls), and it only sees currently the two of
you. It's going to run forward and it's going to

move here. Even at its full distance, it gets
right up next to you, but it's not going to be

able to attack unfortunately. It uses its full
movement and runs toward you with an unnatural

speed and it leaps and lands on you with its claws
grabbing your chest and you begin to fall back and

start to catch yourself.

LIAM: Stab! Stab! Stab!

MATT: Go ahead and make your attacks. The rest of
you manage to catch up to the group.

TALIESIN: Running up to the center tunnel.

MATT: Everyone else running up to the center
tunnel?

MARISHA: Center tunnel. Go!

MATT: As you guys approach, you hit the tunnel and
begin to move inside as eight skeletons begin to

curve around the corner.

MARISHA: Are we all in?

MATT: No, currently she's still being assaulted by
a shadow ghast.

SAM: I'm still at the door, and I'll say: No! Get
away from me, you interlopers! Evil-doers! That's

right, you infiltrator! (screams)

MATT: Perfect! You're stabbing at the guy that's
got her?

LIAM: 40 for the first. Second one is a seven. No,
it's 17 for the second one, and the last is a

crit, and that is eight.

MATT: That'll do it, actually. As you repeatedly
jab your dagger into the back of it, its tongue is

lashing out and its claws are trying to sink into her
armor. Can't seem to find any purchase on her

flesh. The horrible smell of its breath is on you
as you watch as dark blood spatters out of its

mouth on you as it's being stabbed to death on top
of you. The weight pushes you onto your back, and

you crumple onto the ground as it goes limp. You
have to shove it off of you.

LIAM: I take Whisper and the venom dagger and lift
it by the head off her.

LAURA: Thanks.

MATT: As you guys are getting up to do this
action, the rest of you made it up to the tunnel,

and you can see as the eight skeletons begin to
turn around the corner and begin hacking at the

slowest who's there, which is going to be Pike. So
Pike, you get four skeletons that are able to

attack you at this entrance way.

ASHLEY: That's okay.

MARISHA: She's got this shit. She's a cleric!
She's a monster.

MATT: 13 misses. Misses. Misses. They all miss!
They're scratching at your armor.

ASHLEY: I'm almost there!

MATT: You guys run past the skeletons?

LAURA: Yeah because we're going to tunnel this
shit anyways, right?

TALIESIN: I think we're going to all get in and
then, Grog, I'm going to have you punch the

darkness.

TRAVIS: Sure.

MATT: All right so you guys all continue to run
in. As you guys run past, Pike, four attacks of

opportunity on you from the ones that were
attacking you.

15. No. No. 17, no. What's your armor class?

ASHLEY: 23.

MATT: 19, it rolled naturally, plus four equals
23. One has managed to finally get to you. It

swings up with its shortsword at you, and you take
eight points of piercing damage. One of the

skeletal shortswords strikes across the back of
your armor. It glides off and catches you in the

edge of the ear and you're like (yelps). But you
guys continue to run into this. Are you running

with them?

ASHLEY: I want to attack them so bad, but I know
we need to go.

SAM: I'll run, but I'll say: No! No, don't take me
with you. I need to stay here.

TALIESIN: You're our hostage now!

MATT: As you're shouting this to skeletons, you
glance off over the back of your shoulder and you

see a bit of torchlight emerge as a black orb
burns through a stone wall.

MARISHA: Let's go!

TRAVIS: I wait until everybody's through, and do I
see a crack or nice weakened part in the archway

that I can smack?

MATT: Make an investigation check. You put your
hand through to find a specific place--

TRAVIS: Hold onto your butts. 13.

MATT: 13? Maybe.

TRAVIS: I like the maybe. I rear back and hit the
fucking shit out of it.

MATT: All right, go ahead and roll.

TRAVIS: Reckless. That's nice. 24.

MATT: 24, that hits. Go ahead and roll damage.

TRAVIS: What do I roll? 1d4?

MATT: 1d4 with the gauntlets then add your
strength modifier.

TRAVIS: Oh, that's a one. Nine.

MATT: All right, as you slam your fist into the
wall, part of it breaks and cracks and you can see

earth begin to fall and filter in and it's not
enough to take it down. You can hear multiple

skeleton voices and you see a bunch of them
rushing up the hallway at you.

LAURA: Can I shoot the skeletons that are
approaching?

TALIESIN: I'm going to shoot, as well.

MATT: Okay, both of you guys take fire. Throw your
second punch.

LAURA: 26 and 27 to hit.

TALISIEN: 25 and 28.

MATT: All hit.

TRAVIS. 12, 24.

MATT: 24 points of damage? Right. As you guys all
fire and begin to prepare your weapons, you strike

with your arrows, with your gun blast, with your
daggers as the top of the cavern caves in,

swallowing whatever projectiles you were throwing,
as well as closing off the entranceway. You can

see now, as it falls forward, parts begins to
shift.

MARISHA: Run!

TRAVIS: I pick up Pike, and we start running.

MATT: Okay. So you're grabbing Pike by the back of
the armor and you guys are rushing. It is starting

to collapse and fall behind you. At that moment,
you feel the low sub-vibration of another

titan footfall. At that point, it sends the rest of
this cavern into a more rapid collapse. As you can

hear the cracking sound of the rocks behind you,
Grog, make a dexterity saving throw.

TRAVIS: I have advantage on those. It's okay.

LIAM: If we're all running together he gets plus
two from me, if he's within ten feet.

MATT: You guys are probably a little bit higher up
than him.

TRAVIS: 17.

MATT: 17? As you're moving forward and you're
rushing, some of the rocks begin to slam into you.

Both you and Pike suffer seven points of
bludgeoning damage. The impact of rocks-- make an

athletics check.

TRAVIS: 23.

MATT: Yeah, the rocks begin to collapse around you
and they begin to pin your body, but the physical

strength you have manages to break through and you
are not held in the collapsing tunnel beginning to

push forward. You all begin to rush. Slowly the
sound of the collapsing tunnel subsides as you

begin to glance upward and see the color of
green-blue light approaching.

SAM: Approaching us? Or we're approaching it?

LAURA: We can see the sky and we're causing the
collapse behind us? We're up at Thar Amphala? Can

we slow down at all, or do we have to keep booking
it to avoid the cave-in?

MATT: Make a perception check.

LAURA: 18.

MATT: It sounds like the crumbling noises have
begun to subside, and all you can hear now is the

slow resting and easing to existing loose rubble
and rock, the slow clattering behind you.

LAURA: So we can slow down.

MATT: You guys can slow down. You're about 15 feet
from the surface at this point.

TALIESIN: Very carefully see what's up there and
find some cover.

LAURA: I still got Pass Without a Trace because I
didn't cast Hunter's Mark.

SAM: Who are you people? What do you want with
me?

TRAVIS: I reach over to Scanlan, and I rip his
hair off.

MATT: You reach out, and your hand passes through
nothing.

TRAVIS: That is a great hat.

LIAM: I got a new 45 stealth check, so I'm going
to go peek. We're level 19. I'm level 19, y'all.

MATT: You peek up past the edge. The sky above you
glows a sickly teal color as the darkened storm

above is obscured by the crackle of the arcane
barrier that encases the city. Glancing at the

size of the barrier and the points of origin, you
can see that only the inner portion of Thar

Amphala is here. The inner wall and everything
within. The outer regions were left in the

Shadowfell when it was transported.

Peppered shifting shapes of winged, black clusters
of creatures scan the sky above. Dozens and dozens

of gloomstalkers seeking any sight of intruders
across the enclosed atmosphere of this arcane

dome. In the distance, you can see the terrible
spire of Entropis standing once more. A web-like

network of greenish energy fork like veins across
the exterior to hold the structure firm.

A muffled boom is heard. You glance up, and see
from the outside of this dome an explosion burst

across the magical barrier. Harmless, then
dissipates. Squinting hard, you can make out

obscured shapes of wyvern riders. Swarming and
circling the outside of the barrier.

LAURA: Is there any city on the way to
Vasselheim?

MATT: Well, you traveled with wyvern riders. You
don't know how many there are. But do note that

you did travel with wyvern riders. Tossing
occasional weapons that bounce off and shatter

with sparks across this barrier. Nothing is coming
through and they're trying to find a weak point

somewhere of what is encasing this. Currently, no
help to you in your circumstance.

You see a massive skyship hovering far above
that's unable to do anything and is staying far

enough out of reach to not unfortunately fall.

LAURA: We have to get these shields down.

MATT: You catch a flashing glance of a huge winged
beast streak across the top of the barrier: a

glittering brass dragon. An arcing blast of arcane
energy fires from the barrier, striking J'mon Sa

Ord, who briefly jolts from the impact, but barely
changes course to curve away and out of sight.

As your vision now begins to focus down to the
city around you, you can see the mostly intact

buildings you recall from your last jaunt through
Thar Amphala. The interior of the city is less

war-damaged from past history frays.

Here you stand, and here's where we're going to
take a break. We'll return here in a few minutes.

We have a video at the break to get you guys ready
for the Wyrmwood giveaway. Once again, help out

with the earthquake recovery in Mexico if you can.
And we'll see you guys in a few minutes.

[break]

MATT: Welcome back, everybody! And welcome back,
Ashley! Welcome back! We have our winner of the

Wyrmwood giveaway: Pharadar! P-H-A-R-A-D, what looks like
an A or an O? Possibly an E? R! You are the

winner! Danoba will contact you and get your
information so we can send you your awesome signed

Wyrmwood piece of accoutrement! Congratulations!

All righty. Coming back into the game, folks. As
you all are waiting in this tunnel that emerges

into Thar Amphala proper, Vax has taken a visual
scope of the surroundings and the current

circumstance. What do you do?

LAURA: Vax? Does it look like anyone has noticed
the noise coming from this tunnel?

LIAM: I was about to assess that. Couple of
questions: One, how far is the tower from where we

are right now?

MATT: You guys are maybe 150 feet or so from the
edge, so you're toward the side of the city. The

tower is in the very center, so it's maybe half a
mile from you. It's not half a mile; half a mile

is ridiculous. No, it's maybe 400 feet from you?

LIAM: Am I able to tell, if this is a giant,
domed-in city, are we in a little corner of it, or

are we coming up somewhere mid-range?

MATT: If you were to look out at it from an
overhead circle view, from the center, you're a

little ways near the edge.

LIAM: Okay, so not right against it?

MATT: Yeah, you're about 150 feet from the edge.

LIAM: How close are the nearest of the
gloomstalkers flying around?

MATT: At this point, looking up, you see about
three or four that are maybe 70 or 80 feet above

you. But they're doing passes. They're not being
stationary and they're constantly circling

through. As you glance up and look and nudge away,
you can see their yellow eyes piercing from their

black, lightless form. Their wings, as they expand
and shift, you can see that faint glance, the

beams of their vision, scanning across the
rooftops. They're all very intent on seeing what's

going through the city.

LIAM: And do I see any motherfuckers on the
streets?

MATT: Make a perception check.

LIAM: Yeah. Use the Colville die, the meteorite.
It's pretty good. It's 29.

MATT: 29? Okay. Couple things. One, as you glance
through the streets, you can see now why the top

chamber of Thomara was so bereft of undead.
They've all been moved topside. You see, glancing

through the bits of street that you have in visual
range, maybe 35 to 40 dwarven undead that are

wandering through open spaces, mixing with the
various soldiers from battles long past, when Thar

Amphala still existed in the Shadowfell. You've
encountered those undead already.

You also glance around past the gloomstalkers as
you're keeping an eye. As you're scanning through

the crowds, you see something different: larger,
flying through the skies on the opposite end of

the dome. It appears winged, with a tail, but
porous, like a tattered sail or a ladder. A

skeletal beast of long neck and tail makes a
baneful circle over the city with burning

green-blue eyes.

LIAM: Is it dragon-shaped?

MATT: It's kind of dragon-shaped.

MARISHA: It's Daenerys' dragon!

MATT: It appears to be skeletal. There is no
flesh. With what little bit of look you can see,

you can see the light behind the dome is--

LAURA: How is it even flying?

LIAM: Is there any color to it, other than dead?

MATT: Not bleached-white bone, but yellowish,
off-white bone with various shades of rot to it.

It's coasting around and you get one view of it as
it begins to spin. You get a faint, distant glance

at it. You only see one, but it is apparently also
making its path over the city with the rest of the

gloomstalkers. It does have stretched bits of
broken, leftover flesh and leather that are

tattered in places.

LIAM: Do me a favor and stay down there. It's a
real party up here, and everybody's dead.

TRAVIS: I like parties.

LIAM: There is a dead dragon in the sky, and
there's a lot of dead dwarves and other various

types, and those things that Scanlan charmed a few
days ago. It is really shitty up here, so stay put.

LAURA: Do any of them seem to have noticed this
tunnel?

LIAM: I don't believe so.

LAURA: Then come back down here.

LIAM: I back slowly the 15 feet that I traveled.

LAURA: So what's the plan here, guys?

TRAVIS: I don't know how much further we have, but
we really need that sword, right? We still have

not seen the Sword of Kas?

TALIESIN: I've been thinking about that.

TRAVIS: Oh. Good.

TALIESIN: I haven't come up with anything. No, we
could try and find the object. There are legends

that say that the sword was lost somewhere near
the city. We are, for as much of a moving, still

in the earth somewhere near the city. We could
find the sword.

LAURA: Potentially.

MARISHA: Yeah, maybe it's in the dirt that we just
came by!

TALIESIN: I really hope we don't have to go back
down there, but maybe. That might have been what

they were searching for.

LIAM: You can scry on people. Can you scry on
things?

MARISHA: I can. I don't currently have Locate
Object with me.

LAURA: I have Locate Object.

MARISHA: I can give my Scrying Eye to Vex.

LAURA: So that we can see it, so we can locate
it.

TRAVIS: Oh, because we haven't seen it yet?

MARISHA: I don't know what it looks like. Unless
we have seen it, in which case I still don't know

what it looks like.

TRAVIS: I think the Death Knight was holding the
Sword of Kas.

LAURA: Well, we'll find out when we scry on it,
won't we?

MARISHA: I pull out the Scrying Eye, toss it to
Vex.

MATT: Have you scryed before?

LAURA: I haven't.

TRAVIS: Oh shit, you about to ride the Matrix,
girl! You about to plug in!

SAM: Your first time's always disappointing.

MARISHA: You can have these rushes, you know? It
can get a little intense. You'll be great. Yeah.

Try and focus real hard, though.

LAURA: I focus on the Sword of Kas.

MARISHA: Yes, and try and keep your mind clear and
on the sword, or else you'll get other weird

interference.

LAURA: I'm thinking of so many other things, but
I'm really trying to focus on this sword, okay?

Penises, dicks. No, Sword of Kas! Sword!

MARISHA: It's very phallic, but sword.

MATT: All right, so. As you glance into this
crystalline sphere, your vision begins to go dark

at the edges. Tunnel vision begins to slowly swell
and take your view. Your breath quickens. It's a

really uncomfortable and unfamiliar feeling. But
as your vision goes tunnel into the sphere, the

coloration and the diffraction of the little bit
of light and vision you have in this tunnel go

cloudy and blur. The tunnel vision withdraws. It
gets darker and darker, and you can see before you

a hilt of some sort of black blade. It's beautiful
and hooked in places. It's surrounded by muck.

It's surrounded by what you get a sense of, but
there's no open space around it. It is in some

thick, molasses-like silt.

LAURA: It's buried. Does it seem like the dirt
that surrounds the Shadowfell? Is it that kind of dirt?

MATT: It's the same color. There's no light in the
vicinity. You can sense it's there, but you do

sense that the earth around it is not super hard.
There is a dampness. When I say silt--

LAURA: Oh no, now I'm thinking of dicks again! Hold
on. Sword!

MARISHA: Focus, Vex! Focus.

TRAVIS: Big black sword.

(laughter)

TALIESIN: We're going to die.

MATT: It seems to be submerged somewhere.

(laughter)

SAM: Children.

LAURA: I'm focusing!

MATT: So you see it before you, but because it's
seemingly buried in this area of damp rock and

silt, you have no other idea of where it is.

LAURA: Okay, but I did get a good look at it, at
least?

MATT: As much as the Scry spell can employ, yes.

LAURA: Okay. All right, thanks, stone! It was not
being held by that knight. No. It was buried

somewhere.

MARISHA: I told you it was where we just walked
by! I don't know if that's true.

LAURA: I'm going to give Vax a super detailed
description. I don't know if it helps, but I know

we can both cast Locate Object.

LIAM: Yeah, but you saw it.

LAURA: Yeah, but I'm giving you a really detailed
description!

LIAM: But I didn't see it.

LAURA: We're twins! Look into my mind!

LIAM: You have the spell, yeah? So you should do
it.

MARISHA: Can I have my Scrying Eye back?

LAURA: Have you scryed on any of us, without us
knowing?

TRAVIS: You can admit it. It's okay. Come clean.

TALIESIN: She's a terrible liar. We'd know.

MARISHA: I wanted to scry on Scanlan, but then
Grog wouldn't let me.

SAM: Why would you want to scry on me?

LAURA: Oh, when you were missing and we didn't
know if you were safe or not.

SAM: If you did, you would've seen this: a big
black sword.

TRAVIS: Is that what you call big?

SAM: I'm a little guy. Look, it's bigger than my
mug!

MARISHA: Did you really paint Mythcarver black?
Why would you do that?

SAM: For a joke.

LAURA: Okay, I'm going to cast Locate Object and
envision the Sword of Kas to see if it's around

us. I cast it at 3rd level, though, because I used
up all my 2nd.

MATT: Okay. Within a thousand feet of you. Okay.

SAM: Is it a roll? No, it's a thing that happens.

MATT: In a brief instant, you close your eyes,
recite the incantation, snap your fingers. As you

do, from behind your closed lids, you immediately
feel this draw, this sense, this direction. It is

not moving. It is stationary. It is--

MARISHA: 3,000 miles away.

MATT: No, it's within a thousand miles. Let me
see. Sense the direction. So you know the

direction of it at all times. You don't know quite
how far from you it is. You sense it's lateral and

down from where you are. Deeper toward the city,
but at a downward angle.

LAURA: So underground. So we don't have to go
above ground to find it. Do you guys want to spend

time getting this sword?

TALIESIN: It would be advantageous.

TRAVIS: Do we really need it?

LAURA: It's super important to fighting Vecna.

TRAVIS: We had the ability to tunnel through
earth, but this guy let it go.

SAM: Who are you people? Let me go! I'm innocent!

MARISHA: Your wife left you!

SAM: Oh, that's true! (fake sobbing) That is my
backstory!

LAURA: What about the earth elemental thing that
you were going to do? Can you still do that and

tunnel with that?

MARISHA: That lets me glide through earth. It
doesn't let me tunnel. I can do a Move Earth

spell.

LAURA: You can't take me with you if you glide
through the earth, can you?

MARISHA: You would die. You would suffocate and be
crushed from the pressure of the earth.

TRAVIS: Unless you wanted to hop in the necklace
and give it to her in the elemental form.

SAM: But you wouldn't be able to help her find it
in a necklace.

LAURA: It's that direction.

SAM: Is it the direction that we came from, or the
direction that we are going, but down?

MATT: The direction you're going, but down.

TALIESIN: Like hopping Earth orbit.

SAM: We don't know if there's even any catacombs
or anything down there. It could be buried in

solid earth.

LAURA: Which is why Keyleth is clutch.

SAM: And it could be a thousand feet down.

TRAVIS: That's probably what they were looking
for.

TALIESIN: It's probably what they were digging
for.

TRAVIS: But they were going the wrong way.

TALIESIN: I can keep blowing his mind like this.
It's quite nice.

MARISHA: Okay, all right, shit. Do you know how
close it is?

LAURA: It's within a thousand feet. Right? Yeah,
no, I only sense things within a thousand feet.

TALIESIN: How much of a problem is the Move Earth,
and how far can we go? A thousand feet, with the

Move Earth?

LAURA: What if I point Keyleth in the direction?
Can you glide as an earth elemental and find it

that way?

MATT: Do consider, once you do find it, the sword
cannot earthglide with you.

LAURA: Oh, it can't?

SAM: If only we had some sort of sphere!

LAURA: If only somebody hadn't sent it away! Which
is, by the way, chasing behind us still.

MATT: Yeah, probably.

SAM: Shit. But when it catches up to us, we'll
take it back!

LAURA: Maybe see if you can sense it right now.
See if you can take it back right now.

SAM: Simon? Answer your master. I can't.

LAURA: Keep trying.

MATT: The spell only lasts for up to ten minutes,
by the way.

TALIESIN: We have to move quick.

MATT: So you've got to move quick.

LAURA: I'm going to have to keep casting it.

MARISHA: All right, here's the thing. I have an
8th-level spell left, and I have a 9th-level spell

left. I want to save one of those. I can Move
Earth and make 40-foot tunnels for up to two hours

as I go.

LIAM: Do we have the Gate Stones? Both of them?

SAM: Yeah. Gate Stones? They're not Gate Stones.

LAURA: Whatever, but yeah.

LIAM: Do we have them?

SAM: I have one.

LIAM: I have a great idea, but it'd take a little
time. I have a little tub of oil that makes you

ethereal, and if one of us-- you, me, whoever--
travels through the ethereal plane and walks down

to the sword and waits with it and then pops back
into the material plane--

SAM: Underground?

LIAM: Finds it and then waits somewhere.

LAURA: I've got another idea. But your idea led to
this idea. It's a building process. What if

Keyleth took one of the Gate Stones, glided down
there as an earth elemental, grabbed the sword,

and then bamfed back to us.

MARISHA: Would that work?

SAM: She'd have to become a different form.

LAURA: An earth elemental.

TRAVIS: In your ethereal idea, do you leave your
physical body and your stuff?

LIAM: No, I'm on a different plane parallel to
this one.

SAM: She'd become an earth elemental in solid
earth.

TALIESIN: It takes a minute to activate the stone,
though. You would be down there-- that's the

problem.

LAURA: That's why Keyleth could do it.

MARISHA: Yeah, but the voice from above said I
can't glide the sword with me, but I should be

able to grab it and then concentrate--

SAM: And change your form into an earth
elemental.

MARISHA: Well, I'll already be an earth elemental,
and I'll have the Gate Stone.

LIAM: Do you have any sense of if it's buried very
deep? Or is it sitting in a puddle of shit?

LAURA: I can send her in a direction.

LIAM: We don't know, though.

MARISHA: All right, this is a good plan. What if
we combine plans? Because etherealness can let you

glide through your plane, right? It's a glidey
thing, but for all things. Right, so can you take

the potion, piggy-back on me, we glide together,
get the sword--

LIAM: She would not be able to hold onto it.

LAURA: But I would help her find it.

SAM: But you would be a mist. How would you tell
her anything?

TALIESIN: She would follow her.

SAM: How are you going to see?

MARISHA: We've got our awesome telekinetic
earrings.

MATT: You still have to whisper in the earring.

LIAM: They're two different dimensions. It's two
different planes. But if you or I, with Locate

Object, douse ourselves in this oil and we locate
the object, we know exactly where it is, and we

move toward it and then go down there. It might be
encased in a ton of stone or something. We don't

know. We could go toward it, find it, and then go
sit 20 or 30 feet away from it, wait to pop back

into this plane, go grab it, Gate Stone up here.

TRAVIS: That's not a terrible idea, if your stuff
works that way.

SAM: And if you can find a place to pop back into
existence 30 feet away.

MARISHA: And I can make tunnels, though, as long
as I go with you. I can't find it alone. I can get

close.

TRAVIS: It's also super loud and moves a lot of
stuff, and shit collapses--

LIAM: Also, I should try to do it, because if I
come back in a wall of stone, it doesn't matter.

TRAVIS: All in favor of the ethereal idea, raise
your hands.

LAURA: How long does it last?

LIAM: An hour.

TRAVIS: All in favor of the earthglide elemental,
raise your hand.

MARISHA: Wait, I thought we had to have more or
less both, though.

LAURA: We have to have both.

LIAM: Why? We have the Gate Stone. Ethereal will
take me down toward the thing. I wait by it, pop

back into material, pick it up, Gate Stone back--

TRAVIS: Is Gate Stone immediate?

LIAM: It takes a minute to do.

MARISHA: That's not how earth works, though. You
can't wait down there and then switch back and

then think you can grab this.

LIAM: We don't know that we're going through solid
earth. It could be sitting in a foot-deep puddle

of muck in a cavern somewhere. It's not like it
was teleported into a solid mountain.

MARISHA: If it was sitting under a foot deep of
muck, someone would have found it by now.

LIAM: We've been stealthing for not too much
space. I think that I could get pretty far.

SAM: But she knows where it is.

LIAM: Well, I could do the same thing that she
did.

SAM: All right, do it.

MARISHA: But she knows what it looks like.

LIAM: If you hand me that bauble again, I can do
the same thing.

MATT: Unfortunately, it's already been used.

TRAVIS: You've got to let Vex go.

LIAM: That is hilarious.

MARISHA: It's got to be a Vex and Kiki. That's the
thing: it's got to be both of us.

TALIESIN: Can you follow her?

SAM: No, she cannot. She won't be able to see her.
If you're ethereal, you're in a different plane.

MARISHA: You're stealthy as fuck. We can get
there, get close enough, get above it, and then--

TRAVIS: You're talking about going in the open
air? Risking the open air to get closer?

MARISHA: She's stealthy as fuck, and I can glide
under the dirt.

TRAVIS: Leaves a lot of room for a bad roll.

TALIESIN: Or we make a tunnel and we all go.

SAM: Why don't you go find it and come back and
tell us?

LIAM: Let's try your idea. You thought that I
would be able to locate it by you telling me about

it, so what did it look like?

LAURA: I explain exactly what it looked like.

LIAM: Awesome. I'm going to cast Locate Object
right now.

MATT: Okay. As you cast the spell, you close your
eyes and snap your fingers. It can't find

anything. Unfortunately, you have to have seen the
object for the spell to have an effect.

LIAM: No, I'm not upset at you. I'm upset at
Laura, because this was my idea on the break, and

it got yanked from me, but what are you going to
do? I'm not upset. It's fine. I'm taking my

marbles and going home!

TRAVIS: So how long can you tunnel? And how long
in each tunneling thing?

LAURA: Plus, If I give you a direction, you can
tunnel in that direction, you can earthglide in

that direction until you find the sword, grab a
hold of it and try to bamf back. Let's try that.

TRAVIS: Or tunnel back.

MARISHA: With you telling me where it is?

LAURA: I'll point you in a direction.

LIAM: What's the range on the earring?

MARISHA: Yeah, can she guide me through--

LIAM: Wait, the ring. Within 60 feet of each
other. All of this was a waste of time.

TALIESIN: Tunnel!

MARISHA: All right, I tunnel, then! Fucking hell!

MATT: This was so much DND right there. All the
DND. Everyone who's ever played DND is right now

going "yep, I've been there." All right, so what's
the plan?

LAURA: We tunnel towards the fucking sword.

TALIESIN: We collapse the tunnels behind us.

TRAVIS: Pike and I charge out of the tunnel.

TALIESIN: You lead us, we go straight there. Less
than a thousand feet.

SAM: Okay, let's go.

TALIESIN: I know that this is burning, but we've
got no choice.

LAURA: We know the direction. Go in that
direction.

MARISHA: Are we going to try and go above, or are
we tunnelling all the way there?

LAURA: In the direction that I'm pointing. Tunnel
that way.

MARISHA: I'm going to burn my 8th-level spell on
Move Earth. I still have a 9th, and then this is

reaching the end of my shit.

MATT: All right, so this lasts up to two hours,
concentration, and you can move a 40-foot space to

create a tunnel every ten minutes.

SAM: Every ten minutes? That's useless.

TALIESIN: Under a thousand feet.

SAM: The Locate Object only lasts ten minutes.

LIAM: It's within a thousand feet.

LAURA: And then I can cast it again twice. I have
two more times to cast it.

LIAM: A thousand feet is not that far.

TRAVIS: Did you say 40 feet?

SAM and MARISHA: Every ten minutes.

TRAVIS: And we've got three of those, so we're
going 120 feet?

LAURA: No, she can keep going that direction and
then I'll cast it again in a little bit.

TALIESIN: That's assuming we hit no pockets.

SAM: 240 feet. That gets us 480 total feet
possible in two hours. Halfway.

LIAM: It's more likely that this thing is sitting
in a pool of stilted water. It's probably not

encased in a passageway of stone, because how did
it get there?

MARISHA: If that's the case, we have to move on
foot above ground quickly and get close, and then

I can tunnel us down. I think that's the only way.
Other than that, we're taking several hours to get

there at a very slow pace.

SAM: And we might not get there.

TRAVIS: Two dozen plus things flying around. Pike
and I are going to roll some stealth checks. It'll

be great.

TALIESIN: All right, fuck.

MARISHA: Wait!

ALL: Wait.

TALIESIN: (laughs) Does anybody know that joke
outside of this room? Wait, that's right. We

Instagrammed it.

MARISHA: Scanlan, you still have a mansion?

SAM: I do.

MARISHA: We could break this up. Scanlan casts the
mansion, we split the party, and we have a stealth

team go get the sword and come back--

LIAM: And Vecna knows where we are.

MARISHA: If they're in the mansion, though--

LAURA: You can't sense anybody in the mansion.

MARISHA: He can't sense anyone in the mansion, so
we cast the mansion while you're still here. Half

the party goes in, team Stealth Sword Recovery
Plan goes out, gets the sword, while the rest of

the team camps in the mansion.

TRAVIS: If there's anything around that sword when
you get there, you're on your own.

LAURA: Then we go away. We don't try to fight it.

MARISHA: Unless we all want to decide, right here
and right now, to try and get closer to the sword

than the thousand feet we are potentially away
from it right now, together as a team, and then

cast the mansion. Or not at all.

TRAVIS: (laughs) This is craziness. I think there
is an upside to Pike and I not having to roll

those stealth checks, even with Pass Without a
Trace, but if there's anything around that sword,

it's going to be up to you to either fight it and
get the sword, or get the fuck out.

LAURA: Avoid it, yeah.

TRAVIS: You want to do that?

SAM: Stealth team is not me, right? It's you two.

MARISHA: It'd be us two and maybe Vax, as well.

TRAVIS: Corner three.

LIAM: I'm not that stealthy.

LAURA: Let's do it.

MARISHA: Does anyone have a better plan? Is this
what we're going with?

ASHLEY and TRAVIS: Do it.

MATT: Okay, then.

SAM: We're also committing that this is where the
mansion is going to live for the night? Is this a

good spot for it?

LAURA: The sphere is coming out soon.

MATT: Keyleth, Vex, you feel a very faint
vibration in the ground.

MARISHA: Does the sphere fuck up the mansion?

TALIESIN: It's a Disintegration spell.

LAURA: Probably. We need to get out.

SAM: No, the mansion can't be seen. They would
have to know that it's there.

TRAVIS: Even if it accidentally hits it, it's
toast.

SAM: Well, we can hide it behind a closet or
something.

TALIESIN: There's no closet. We're in a tiny
tunnel.

SAM: I always carry a closet with me.

TALIESIN: We know.

MATT: What are you doing, guys?

LAURA: Let's peek up. Is anything near us right
now?

MARISHA: And whatever the closest building is
closest to the sword.

MATT: All right, so you guys all emerge out into
the open light--

LAURA: No, we don't! We peek up first to see if
anything's near us.

MATT: Make a perception check.

MARISHA: Who, all of us?

MATT: No, just the ones who are looking.

LAURA: 27.

LIAM: 31.

MATT: Okay, the two of you glance off as you're
emerging. Your exiting point looks to be a hole in

the middle of a street that has been dug down.
From this point, you can see there's a nearby

building, maybe 20 feet from you, that is a
two-story building that is partially collapsed,

but still mostly intact.

LAURA: Is there anything around?

MATT: Yeah, there's a gloomstalker at any given
point in time within a hundred feet of you.

They're all keeping a net of movement around.

TALIESIN: I'm going to walk up to Grog and Pike.

MATT: You hear rocks beginning to emerge--

TALIESIN: I grab Grog and Pike. We're going to run
together. I activate my Silence spell. You two are

in my Silence spell.

TRAVIS: I've got Pike in my hand.

MARISHA: And you still have Pass Without a Trace.

LAURA: Still Pass Without a Trace.

MATT: No, because when you cast Locate Object,
that stopped.

LAURA: I recast it! It's okay. I recast it.

MATT: Okay, mark that off. So as you guys all
emerge topside, rushing this 20 feet distance, I

need you all to make stealth checks. Grog, you
make it with advantage; you're still visible--

MARISHA: That doesn't take up one of your Locate
Object spells, does it? Then let me cast it. I'm

casting Pass Without a Trace, not her.

MATT: Using what spell level?

MARISHA: 2nd.

MATT: Sorry, I misheard. I thought you only had a
9th-level spell slot left.

MARISHA: No, I'm talking about my big mack daddies
in order to still cast other things.

TRAVIS: I had to roll for both of us.

TALIESIN: But you have advantage.

ASHLEY: You had to roll for both of us?

TRAVIS: But I had advantage. I think we're okay.

MARISHA: For everyone paying attention, I have
three 1st-level spells left, no 2nd-level spells,

two 3rd, one 4th, and then an 8th and a 9th. And
that's it.

SAM: You have advantage on this?

TALIESIN: Do I have advantage? Well, I might have
advantage also. I'm in the Silence spell also. Not

that I need it, though.

TRAVIS: That advantage saved that whole thing from
going tits-up, because that first roll was

(explosion).

SAM: 25.

TALIESIN: Natural 19, so 29.

MARISHA: 18 plus nine plus another ten. 38.

LIAM: 37.

LAURA: 46.

TRAVIS: 24.

Wait, don't high-five shit yet! Why are
you high-fiving? What the fuck? What's wrong with

you people? Jesus!

SAM: What did Pike get?

MATT: Pike was being carried. His roll was
dependent on both of them. So as you guys dart

through the open light, the first time you've seen
light since arriving in this titan. The sky

outside is super dark; most of the light here is
actually emanating from the barrier. It's creating

its own false twilight sense over this entire
city. As you rush into the room, you all dart into

the nearby doorway. There's a half-ajar door
that's broken, and you push through, being careful

not to slam into it or to break it and cause any
noise, but you all rush into this chamber.

Immediately, the smell wafts of old decay, and
glancing around, you can see long-dried bits of

flesh or nondescript innards that have long
withered and turned to partial dust.

You all come into the shadow of the chamber and
take a minute to breathe. You hear the distant

sound (screeching, flapping, crunch). You hear one
perch on one of the buildings about one block down

(screeching, flapping) and continue off. It does
not appear that you are currently being stalked or

noticed.

TALIESIN: They can't hear you.

SAM: It is visible, so is there a closet in here
or some sort of alcove?

MATT: If I recall correctly, the entrance is only
visible to people that you signify.

TALIESIN: People who see invisible things can see
it.

SAM: The entrance shimmers faintly and is five
feet wide and ten feet tall. You and any creature

you designate can enter.

MATT: Okay, it is visible, but only creatures you
designate can enter. That's the difference. So it

is a faint shimmer.

LAURA: We have to hide it, yeah.

MATT: Make an investigation check.

LAURA: Can I help him find a place that would be
hidden?

SAM: Investigation, I got a 23. 22.

MATT: Okay. You go to help him. Most of the
furniture in here is destroyed and withered. You

go upstairs, and there is a double-door cabinet. A
cupboard.

LIAM: The Lion, the Witch, and the Wardrobe!

MARISHA: I thought the same thing!

SAM: Harry Potter lives there. I started reading
Harry Potter.

LAURA: Oh, I'm so glad!

TRAVIS: Started?

SAM: Yeah, I'm on chapter three!

LIAM: Greetings, time traveler.

MATT: I can't wait to take you to Universal.

LAURA: It's going to be so great.

MATT: All right, so you cast the mansion in the
cupboard. The shimmering purple hue, the familiar

vision of the door of Scanlan's magnificent
mansion arrives. Who's going and who's staying?

Pike, Grog, Percy, and Scanlan staying? The three
of you going?

TRAVIS: I hold out my hand to Vax and I say: Good
luck. I hold out my hand to Vex and I say: Take

care of him.

TALIESIN: Just in case, is it wise to leave one of
the Gate Stones outside the door? You take one so

if you need to port back to it, it's here.

LAURA and LIAM: That's a good call.

MARISHA: Does someone have to be holding it?

TALIESIN: Nope!

LAURA: Put it in a cupboard.

TALIESIN: I'm going to leave it in the kitchen.

MATT: To transfer to a Gate Stone? No, you have to
activate it and hold it on one side, but it brings

you to wherever the Gate Stone is.

TALIESIN: So I'm going to put one of the Gate
Stones in a corner, so it's not so obvious. Yep.

And then you guys have the other one.

MARISHA: I have the other one, yeah.

LIAM: You can get back on your own pretty easily,
yeah? Tunneling through stone, do you have that

left? Or that's done?

MARISHA: No, if I'm an earth elemental, I can
earthglide. I do still have that.

LIAM: I feel like maybe Vex should carry the
stone, then. She has less of a chance of getting

back on her own.

MARISHA: Yeah. Hopefully we're together, though,
but yeah. I toss Vex the Gate Stone.

MATT: Okay. You pocket it. You sense you maybe
have three more minutes on your spell, by the way, Vex.

LAURA: All right, it's that direction.

TALIESIN: All right, we're in the mansion.

MATT: Okay, the rest of you head into the mansion
quietly.

SAM: If we drink wine tonight, it will only be in
remembrance of you. Or to get snookered.

LAURA: If we don't come back, save Vasselheim on
your own and the entire world.

LIAM: (singing) Empty chairs at empty tables...

MARISHA: Team stealth is stealthing as far as we
can, yeah?

LIAM and LAURA: Yeah.

MARISHA: Oh my god. Team half-elf! Yeah! This is
me saying this, not Keyleth.

MATT: Okay, good to know. So as you all vanish in
the mansion, you are outside of the need to

utilize the radial portion of the ring. The three
of you with the spell quickly waning, you begin to

make your way outdoors. I need another stealth
check from you three.

LAURA: Another one?

ASHLEY: I love you guys. Please come back.

MARISHA: All right, don't fuck me, opal die. That
opal die fucked me. Wait, do I have advantage? No.

LAURA: You have plus ten.

TRAVIS: (laughing) Right out of the gate?!

MATT: What did you get?

LIAM: Does my luck transfer to anybody? No.

MARISHA: Can I do anything else? Okay, let's go!
And I run into a door.

MATT: So as you guys rush outward into the open
way, you begin to head across the thoroughfare,

following Vex, who's currently leading the charge,
and you can sense it down below. At this point,

based on the trajectory of it, make an
intelligence check.

MARISHA: They covered for me, right?

LAURA: Intelligence?

MATT: Yeah, roll plus your intelligence modifier.

LAURA: 12.

MATT: 12? Okay. You're not sure of the distance
based on the angle, but you know it's getting

closer. So you guys begin darting from building to
building. Keyleth is straggling a bit behind and

ends up stubbing her toe and instinctually lets
out a yelp sound. At which point, you hear a

distant shriek.

MARISHA: (shrieking noise)

TRAVIS: Wow, make it worse. That's a one.

LAURA: Go underground!

MARISHA: Earth elemental!

(laughter)

MATT: Okay. Thankfully, because there is an old
ancient cobblestone walkway here with loose stone,

but portions of it have been destroyed and broken,
and you can find loose earth easy enough and you

can dart in. You Scrooge McDuck dive into the
stone.

As you guys dart off to the side and you watch as
two gloomstalkers land where she was (screeching)

and begin to scan over and look through, and
they're walking forward on their large, hefty,

muscular hind legs, walking past where you guys
are hiding off to the side. They stop and then

turn around, and one of them scans past and you
both barely duck out of the way.

They both take off, one after the other.

LIAM: Fuck a duck.

MARISHA: Goddamn it.

SAM: Does that burn your spell? Are you done?

MARISHA: No, I'm beast shaped. I'm my earth
elemental right now, okay? So I have tremorsense,

right? I sense the twins.

LAURA: I'm going to cast Locate Object one more
time. Oh, that that takes me out of stealth,

doesn't it?

MARISHA: No. Oh. But I have Pass Without a Trace,
which is still going.

LIAM: Do you vaguely remember the direction it was
in? So maybe we go vague for a minute?

MARISHA: So I pop my head out, Jaws-ing.

LAURA: And I point in the direction and have her
keep following it.

MARISHA: And I'm going to be like-- I'm going to
follow their footsteps with my tremorsense.

MATT: And as such, you don't have to make a
stealth check. You're down below, and you follow

their footsteps underneath. You guys continue on
your current stealth run. You get forward about

another 150 or so feet. Do you want to keep going
or do you want to cast?

LAURA: Is there an abandoned-looking building or
anything I can duck into?

MATT: There's a handful. Most of the city has been
long abandoned.

LAURA: Okay, then I'm going to duck under
something so I can cast the spell and then

re-stealth before I come back out so I don't bamf
in the middle.

MATT: Right. Okay, so you duck into a small
alleyway. You guys are keeping out of view and

waiting for the swarms of undead in the street,
and as you come around the corner you immediately

see about 12 or 13 zombies clattering past. As
you're waiting for them to pass by, eventually

they get quieter and quieter. You take a minute
and you cast the spell Locate Object, and it's a

much steeper angle now. You're getting much closer
to it. So do you want to keep going?

LAURA: Yes. I want to re-stealth and move until
I'm directly over it.

MATT: Roll another stealth check. Both of you,
actually, because we've gone partway through. Not

that I have to worry about Vax.

LAURA: 33.

MATT: Yeah, because you still have Pass Without a
Trace from underneath.

LIAM: 40.

MATT: Okay. The two of you, making your way
through, ducking between streets and passages.

Eventually, you get to a point where you sense and
almost--

LAURA: Did she just yawn?

TRAVIS: No, she just breathed.

MARISHA: She stress exhaled.

ASHLEY: My hand, and it made a farting noise,
sorry.

MATT: You're fine. You get about another 85, 100
or so feet, and it's nearly directly below you.

You're about halfway between the edge of the wall
and where Entropis, the tower, is.

LAURA: Okay. I'm going to tap my foot on the
ground and point directly down to you, Keyleth.

MARISHA: Directly down. Doing this as I go.

MATT: Okay. So you swim down.

MARISHA: Yeah, swimming down.

MATT: Okay, and you're feeling through earth. Make
an investigation check.

MARISHA: Not my strongest suit.

MATT: With disadvantage because you are currently
blind in the earth.

MARISHA: No, I'm awesome.

MATT: You can glide through it. But you can't see
through the earth.

MARISHA: I'm an earth elemental.

MATT: Give it a shot.

TRAVIS: Come on, you got this. Let's go.

LIAM: Just roll high.

TRAVIS: Just drop it out your hand and watch as--

ALL: Yeah, okay.

MARISHA: Do I count the ones out? Can I roll it
again on the inside?

MATT: That's not how it works.

TRAVIS: Is it cocked? It looks cocked.

MATT: What did you roll?

MARISHA: Are we sure with disadvantage? Five.

MATT: Five. Okay. You swim around for about a
minute or so, and you're finding nothing.

MARISHA: Yeah, I'm wise; I'm not smart. There's a
difference.

MATT: So yeah, you're swimming around in there.
You're not finding anything.

LAURA: Oh, does she still have the earring on? Any
luck?

LIAM: She can't talk.

MARISHA: Actually, I can. We recently ruled.
because it's mental, yeah. Oh, wait. No.

LAURA: You don't know where it is?

MARISHA: No, I can't find it.

LAURA: Can I give her an idea of how deep down it
feels, how far away it is?

MATT: You don't know the distance, just direction.
You failed your intelligence check, so you're not

quite able to consider the changing angle for
distance.

MARISHA: But maybe that etherealness thing, and
now I can literally come up and drag you down.

LAURA: Would I be able to see the sword, though,
if I was on another plane?

MATT: Make an intelligence check.

LIAM: I think so, yeah. You just can't interact.

LAURA: Do I get your thing of plus two because I'm
standing next to you?

LIAM: It's for saves, not checks.

LAURA: 13.

MATT: Okay. You don't know much about how
etherealness works or what the effects are. You

don't know if it will help or hinder. You're not
entirely certain what the effects will do.

LAURA: Great!

MARISHA: But you still have Locate Object, and
then you rub some on you, so you can still maybe

sense it?

LAURA: And I would know when it's right on me
because I can sense that much, at least.

MARISHA: Maybe?

LIAM: And you can still see everything. Yeah, you
just can't interact with anything.

LAURA: Put that shit on me, then.

LIAM: Okay, so I start slathering her up.

MATT: Okay. As the oil slathers around you, your
vision of the world becomes dark gray and

colorless. It's very similar to when Frodo puts
the ring on. There's a flickering sense, and the

world itself seems to be immersed in shadow and
not quite there. You watch as all the skeletons

that are swarming through the streets and your
brother all become translucent and almost not

there, like these ghostly visions of them.

LAURA: I don't know. Is it like Sauron? Is he
going to be able to see me?

TALIESIN: Hush. Ignore him.

LAURA: Okay. Can I sink into the ground?

MATT: The ground's hard.

MARISHA: What?!

LIAM: Wait.

LAURA, MARISHA, and TALIESIN: Wait.

LAURA: The ground is hard.

LIAM: No, we've forgotten about the 60 fucking
feet again.

LAURA: She's not 60 feet away.

MATT: You ignore objects and effects that aren't
on the Ethereal Plane.

LIAM: If you take the ring further than 60 feet
away from me, we're blown.

MARISHA: But it might not be 60 feet away.

LAURA: I'll stay 60 feet within the surface of the
earth.

MARISHA: Do we still have another one of those
potions? You can come with us?

MATT: Actually, no, this is a point of order here:
ignores all objects and effects that aren't on the

Ethereal Plane. This is complicated.

MARISHA: This is one of those stupid DND, now we
have to interpret what they mean.

TRAVIS: It's a DM call on him, I think. Or how he
wants to translate it.

MATT: So here's the thing. Here's technically what
happens: as the oil begins to be pressed along

your body, you begin to look around and notice as
your vision goes gray and everything begins to

fade, everything begins to fade. As in, on the
Ethereal Plane, Thar Amphala, this interpretation

of this space, is not at this location.

LAURA: So I would disappear? I would fall?

MATT: Let's see here. This is getting really
wonky.

LAURA: Can I cancel it once it starts getting on
me and I'm like, this does not seem right?

TALIESIN: Shit might get really weird now.

LAURA: I might just be gone.

MATT: Allowing you to move through objects you
perceive-- no, that's true. It's not there on the

Ethereal Plane, it's only on this plane. I'm
sorry. This got really confusing. Welcome to DND.

Thar Amphala, there is no version of it on the
Ethereal Plane, however, which means that

currently you can pass through the ground.

LAURA: I can?

MATT: Yes. My apologies.

LAURA: I'm on another plane of existence, though?

MATT: The Ethereal Plane overlaps this one. It
layers it in a similar way that the Shadowfell does.

TALIESIN: You are actually perceivable? But only
to the things that can perceive.

LIAM: But the proof is in the pudding because if
that ring were gone from my presence, Vecna would

be bending me over a barrel right now.

MATT: Which--

LIAM: He's doing.

MATT: As you dissipate in the Ethereal Plane--

SAM: Poor Ashley.

ASHLEY: This is so stressful!

MARISHA: Wait, though. Come on.

LAURA: I didn't think about the fact that it works
in a different fucking plane.

TRAVIS: That makes sense.

MATT: So as you vanish into the space, a little
whisper curls into your ear, Vax'ildan. "Ah, there

"you are. I've been looking all over for you and
your friends. Welcome." And that's it.

LIAM: Everybody back to Chicken Town. Chicken
Town! And I click the Boots of Haste, and I start

booking back.

SAM: You're abandoning your sister?

LAURA: No, it's okay! I've got the thing.

MARISHA: It's me and you now; we got this. We're
good. Go!

LIAM: You're staying?!

MARISHA: I'm getting the fucking sword!

LIAM: I'm hearing this over the earring. I just
heard that. I heard it. Vecna whispered to me, and

I said that to everybody through the earring. She
shouted back at me.

MATT: But they don't hear you because they're not
in the same plane with the earrings.

LIAM: Does she still hear me?

MATT: No, she doesn't.

LIAM: But I heard that, so: You're not going to
go?

MARISHA: I'm getting this sword. I'm here now
under the fucking ground!

LIAM: I can't talk to you anymore.

LAURA: I'm just floating downwards.

MARISHA: I reach up. Can I grab your shin?

LIAM: I realize Keyleth's not going anywhere and I
plunk down.

MARISHA: Hang on, wait. Can I hear you, can I see
you? Nothing with her?

TRAVIS, LIAM, and MATT: No.

MARISHA: Why did we do this, then?

TRAVIS: I don't know. Keep going. Keep doing it.

TALIESIN: Because it's late and this is what's
happening.

SAM: Back in the mansion, we're all sipping wine
and I'm saying: I know our friends will come back

to us, and I know that they won't ever lead anyone
here.

MATT: Okay, make another check.

LAURA: Can I float or am I stuck on the surface of
the ground?

MATT: Let's see here. You can move up or down.

LAURA: Okay, I'm going to go down towards where
the sword is.

MATT: You glide through the ground.

MARISHA: Is that 12? Okay, all right, that's
actually not too bad. 14.

MATT: Okay, was that with disadvantage?

MARISHA: Seven.

MATT: Okay. You're still floundering around. You
have Vax dart off and Vex has vanished.

LIAM: If she screamed, I stopped once I realized
she wasn't leaving. I stayed.

MATT: Okay. So are you darting back?

LIAM: And nobody replied and I stopped because I
doubted it, and I'm waiting.

MATT: Okay, are you going to stealth?

LIAM: Yeah, of course, but Vecna's whispering in
my ear. 33 and Pass Without a Trace, so 43.

MARISHA: Go. You should go. I come over the ear
piece and I say: Vax, you should really go because

you could compromise all of us by staying here.
You should go.

TRAVIS: She's currently in ethereal form drifting
down; we should see what happens with that.

MATT: Your movement speed, at double movement,
would be 60 with the double dash. You're moving 30

feet per round because when you're moving through
the Ethereal Plane through solid objects and

matter, it does slow you to half speed.

LAURA: Can I sense Keyleth at all? I can't see
her, right?

MATT: You can't see her, you can't sense her, but
you do sense the sword. You sense the direction

still, because Locate Object is still in effect,
and you're drifting down, down, down. About a

hundred feet. 150 feet. And then as you head down
to that point, you suddenly emerge and you can see

a small cavern, maybe ten feet in diameter. Looks
like there's a bit of rubble. Looks like there may

have been a path that led to here that long
crumbled and was either intentionally collapsed or

naturally collapsed by the movement of the titan.
And as you come into this ten-foot little cavern

space, half of the floor is coated in this
brackish green fluid, and the other half is solid rock.

LAURA: Okay. I keep going towards the sword.

MATT: Okay. It then takes you at a slight angle
down into the liquid, and now you can see the

tunnel continues downward. There's a small basin
that changes shape as you go down into this murky

greenish fluid, down where there's no light. It is
normally pitch black here, but the etherealness

allows you to take a little bit of the space in.
Looking around, you can see that there is a thick

residue that is gathered along the edges, and
there at the bottom, you can sense, though you

cannot see it because it is actually a few inches
beneath the muck, you assume, the sword.

LAURA: I can't touch it.

MATT: Correct.

LAURA: But I know where it is. Can I come up into
the cavern, and you said there was rock

outcropping that I can stand on? Can I get this
shit off of me, the oil off of me, or am I stuck

as an ethereal form?

MATT: This is going to be an interesting
question.

TRAVIS: It's like LSD, isn't it? It'll take eight
hours to go away.

(laughter)

MATT: How long does it last on the oil?

LIAM: I lost the paper, but I'll look it up.

MATT: I feel like it lasts for an hour. Let me
double check.

LIAM: Yeah, I think that's what it is.

LAURA: It lasts--

LIAM: One hour.

SAM: Shit. (laughs)

LIAM: We've got to bail on it and come back for it
later, if at all.

LAURA: No, not necessarily.

MATT: Let's see.

LAURA: I have the stone.

LIAM: It's ethereal.

TALIESIN: That's cool.

LAURA: This could work.

MARISHA: It could still work.

LAURA: You guys are in the mansion.

MARISHA: We're cool.

LAURA: Yeah, we're good. I don't know if there's
anything wrong, so you keep tunneling down and

I'll wait.

MATT: All right, make another check.

MARISHA: Investigation?

MATT: Yep.

LAURA: Come on.

MARISHA: At disadvantage?

MATT: Yep.

MARISHA: Oh, that's better! 13.

MATT: 13? Okay. You begin to eventually find a
tunnel that appears to be completely packed with

collapsed loose rock and earth. It's been long
collapsed.

MARISHA: It's heading downwards?

MATT: Seems to be at an angle, yeah.

MARISHA: All right, I'll keep being like, this
seems like a path of least resistance. I'll glide

through that for a bit.

MATT: Takes you a little bit. Eventually, your
spell dissipates.

LAURA: It's been an hour?

MATT: Well, no. The spell lasts for up to ten
minutes.

LAURA: Oh, the Locate Object, right.

MATT: Vax, what have you been doing?

LIAM: I'm paralyzed; I don't know what to do, so
I'm hiding, not doing anything. But how far away

have we traveled from the building we started at
with the mansion in it?

MATT: How far have you traveled from the building?
You're about 120 feet, maybe?

LIAM: That's fine.

MATT: As you're waiting there paralyzed, the voice
creeps in once again. "But where are all your

"friends? Why are you alone?"

LIAM: I don't say shit.

MATT: (chuckles) You eventually break through the
edge and come into the same small cavern that she

encountered, and you can see the dark green fluid
there.

LAURA: Keyleth!

MARISHA: Vex?

LAURA: Keyleth! I'm right here! Keyleth!

MARISHA: Vex?

LAURA: Keyleth! Over here! I'm over here!

MARISHA: Vex?

LAURA: Yes!

MARISHA: Vex?

LAURA: Yeah!

MATT: Nothing.

LAURA: (laughing) How long has it been?

MARISHA: Can you throw a rock or something?

LAURA: I can't do shit! I can't interact with
anything! I'm just fucking standing here! 15

minutes. This is the best.

MARISHA: It's been 15 minutes?

MATT: Since she took the oil, yeah.

TALIESIN: So you found a cavern.

MARISHA: I found a cavern.

LAURA: I described where it was to you, so I
described that it was murky water. Muck is what I

described to you. It's surrounded by silt, is what
it felt like.

MATT: Okay. So what do you do, Keyleth?

SAM: We need Whoopi Goldberg.

TALIESIN: Don't we always.

SAM: "Molly, you in danger, girl."

LAURA: Keyleth, it's right here! It's right here!
It might be poisonous water; I'm not sure what it

is. Can you hear me? It's right here.

MARISHA: I'm going to try to investigate this
cavern, I guess, as much as I can. Am I still at

disadvantage now that I'm in a cavern? That's
cool. That's better. God fucking hell.

TALIESIN: That's a terrible roll. I'm so sorry.

MARISHA: Nine.

MATT: It looks like a cavern, filled partially
with fluid.

MARISHA: I come over and I say: Vax, where is your
sister?

LIAM: She is on another plane. She's in the
Ethereal Plane. We did the oil thing. We didn't

think it through.

MARISHA: What do you mean we didn't think it
through?

LIAM: Vecna's whispering in my ear. By the way,
where is he?

MATT: Still on Entropis.

LIAM: Still in his spot?

MARISHA: So she's not with you?

LIAM: No, she slipped down into the ground. She's
probably near you somewhere?

MARISHA: What? Vex?!

LIAM: We lubed her up in ethereal oil, and she
went down your direction.

LAURA: Vecna can probably hear him.

MATT: Vax. You begin to hear loud wings flapping
louder and louder outside and above, a different

sound than the wings of a gloomstalker.

LIAM: Keyleth, you know where to go. I have to
run. And I click the Boots of Haste and I start

bolting towards the mansion.

MARISHA: I'm not going to leave without your
sister! Bye.

MATT: So are you moving stealthily or are you
bolting?

LIAM: I'm going to stealth.

SAM: And here's cucumber salad, everyone.

TRAVIS: Why is it always green?

TALIESIN: Is it considered a salad if it's mostly
cucumber in there?

SAM: There's some dill.

TALIESIN: How is this different than a sliced
pickle?

MARISHA: I really like dill.

TALIESIN: You're in a cavern. You can't have any
dill.

MARISHA: I'm speaking as myself right now. Marisha
really likes dill.

TALIESIN: What does Keyleth think of dill? We
don't know, do we?! We'll never know.

MATT: All right. Vax.

LIAM: Sorry. I'm freaked out. 35. Am I still Pass
Without a Traced at this point? 35.

TRAVIS: He's an astronaut without a ship.

TALIESIN: God fucking damn it.

MATT: Okay. As you're stealthing, moving along,
you can glance over or keep focusing forward.

LIAM: No, I'm going to keep going.

MATT: All right, you keep going. You move, move.
You can hear the wings; you can hear this horrible

raspy, sounds like a whetstone being slid across
steel, slowed down with bass. It's this (croaks).

LIAM: As I'm probably getting farther away, I say:
Kiki, stay underground, please. And keep going.

MATT: Okay. Eventually, you find your way back to
the household, seemingly not directly followed,

but you hear the wings are circling, more
localized to where this house is. Keyleth, what

are you doing?

MARISHA: I'm in a cavern alone?

MATT: Yeah.

SAM: "That's my turn. "

(laughter)

MARISHA: Vex! Vex, give me a sign? Vex! Throw a
pebble. If you can hear me, throw a pebble!

LAURA: I sit down on the ground Indian-style.

MARISHA: Okay. I'm also working this out as me and
Keyleth. Vax told me: stay underground; made a bad

call; sister's underground near me; I know where
to go. He thinks I know where to go. I go over to

the muck, the greenish liquid, and throw a rock
in. What happens?

MATT: It's a little syrupy, but it definitely
splashes.

MARISHA: Does it look like acid? Does it look like
what we're used to with acid?

MATT: It looks brown, green, sludgy. It doesn't
look like the typical acid you've encountered, but

it looks like a liquid.

MARISHA: I just dip in my toe in the cold water.
Just dip my toe in.

MATT: You take two points of acid damage. It is a
caustic liquid.

MARISHA: It's acid.

LAURA: It's acid.

MARISHA: It's acid. No one can hear me, but I'm
confirming it's acid.

LAURA: I can hear you. It is definitely acid.

MARISHA: I feel so alone.

LIAM: I've stepped in the door, by the way, of the
mansion.

MARISHA: Two points of acid damage?

SAM: How's it going outside?

LIAM: Not well. Not very well. It's fucked. He
knows we're here. He doesn't know where you are or

where I am right now, but he knows that we're
here.

SAM: He knows where you are?

LIAM: No, not anymore.

SAM: Did he know where you were?

LIAM: He did.

SAM: And did he know that you came over here?

LIAM: Probably.

SAM: So he knows where we are, so we have to leave
now.

TALIESIN: Well, we're at least relatively safe
here for a moment until they figure out a way to

find us and then get rid of us.

SAM: Yep. But then we have to leave or be ready to
leave at a moment's notice. Or we should maybe

leave right now.

LIAM: No, we wait a little bit. I think that they
can get back.

SAM: And then what? Then we all have to leave.

MARISHA: I go deeper.

MATT: Okay. So you dive into the liquid?

MARISHA: Not into the liquid! Just through the
stone, going deeper.

MATT: Okay. You coast along the outside and you
can sense that you're traveling on the outskirts

of this descending tunnel where the acidic liquid
is encased, and eventually it rounds out.

MARISHA: I do another sword check.

MATT: Make an investigation check.

MARISHA: Am I at disadvantage again?

MATT: No, because you know what you're looking
for.

MARISHA: That's good! Don't fuck me, Gil! 16.

MATT: Okay. You reach out and you grab forth, and
you feel a few things that you grab and as you

sense them, you poke your head through, which in
the process of doing, you do suffer six points of

acid damage, and your hands find bones. And
glancing through a little bit into the space, you

can see the entire bottom of this basin is bones.
Probably a good four to five feet of stacked

bones. This has been used as a means of disposing
of unwanted things.

MARISHA: Disposing people. I keep looking. I can't
leave without a Vex.

LAURA: I'm fucking sitting on the ground; there's
nothing else I can do.

MARISHA: Eight.

MATT: Four points of acid damage, and you're
finding nothing, but rummaging through.

TALIESIN: Keep rummaging.

MARISHA: I'm desperate. I keep going. Can I go
around and deeper? Can I follow this path a little bit?

MATT: Yeah, you can. On the bottom of it or
another side? What do you want to do?

MARISHA: I'm going to try and go under it. I'm
going to think, if there's a pit of bodies that

have been thrown away, that maybe a sword is
somewhere buried under this pit of bodies.

MATT: Go for it. Make another investigation
check.

MARISHA: Fucking hell. This is so nerve-wracking.
Six.

MATT: You take ten points of acid damage.

TRAVIS: You could just wait it out.

MARISHA: Yeah, but Keyleth.

MATT: Make another check if you want to.

MARISHA: Every few minutes, I go: Vex? I'm
constantly, Vex? Vex? Vax? Vex? Still looking

under this pit of people. 12.

MATT: You suffer eight points of acid damage, and you
reach through and your hand finally hits something

hard and cold within the silt. It's stuck in the
muck, but there's something there that is not like

the rest of the bone. It feels metal.

MARISHA: Okay. I try and earth clear.

SAM: Earth clear? (laughs)

MARISHA: Earth clear! Clear eyes!

MATT: Make a strength check.

SAM: Everclear.

TALIESIN: Wow, it's been a long time.

MARISHA: This is stressful.

MARISHA: Oh! Natural 18. 23? Wait, no. 24!

MATT: Okay. You take seven points of acid damage.

MARISHA: Seven?

MATT: As you reach out and you grab, and you can
now glance through and see this is the hilt of a

blade, and it's stuck in the muck. You yank it
free; you pull it out of the muck, and it's free

at this point. You're surrounded by skeletal
bones, and you feel the fingers pulling at you and

tearing, and you look around you as a wall of
these corpses, these broken corpses, all begin to

grasp at you--

MARISHA: I go up to the cavern! I'm out! I'm
bailing with this.

MATT: You can't pull this into the rock with you.

TRAVIS: We discussed this.

MATT: It's metal; it doesn't come into the rock.
It doesn't earthglide with you. So you have to

glide up with your hand out.

MARISHA: Okay, yeah. I'm beating as I go upwards.

MATT: Make another strength check to see if you
can break the grapple of the undead hands that are

now grabbing and trying to hold you there at the
bottom of the basin.

LAURA: Can I see any of this happening?

MARISHA: Okay, 21.

MATT: No. 21? You do manage to break free. You
suffer another five points of acid damage and

begin to earthglide your way up. You get about
halfway up and suffer another nine points of acid

damage.

MARISHA: 84, 70, 76. Okay. Yeah, still going.

MATT: And you eventually emerge from the top as
you suffer another seven points of acid damage and

manage to earthglide. You watch as all of a sudden
the water separates and bursts, and you watch as

her earth elemental form emerges, its hand coming
up through the water, clutching a blackened blade.

MARISHA: Vex!

LAURA: Okay. Shit. Trinket's still in my necklace.
I wonder if I bamf him out-- he wasn't covered in

oil-- if he'd be in the regular plane or if he
would be in the Ethereal Plane.

TALIESIN: You may never see your bear-- nope.
Playing devil's advocate. Cosmic bear.

MATT: (laughing) Cosmic bear?

MARISHA: Does he become a constellation after
that?

TALIESIN: He'll look like Eternity from Marvel
Comics. He'll be this star bear--

LAURA: Would he be an ethereal bear, or would be
bamf out in the regular plane?

LIAM: That's a big risk.

MARISHA: How much time has it been?

MATT: It's been about 30 minutes.

LAURA: I don't know how this shit works. I'm going
to bamf Trinket out of the necklace.

TALIESIN: What?!

LAURA: I don't know how this fucking shit works.
I'm going to try to bamf Trinket out of the

necklace.

MARISHA: Come on, Trinket. Come on. Keyleth sees
Trinket. Keyleth sees Trinket!

SAM: Best episode ever.

MARISHA: Come on, damn it!

MATT: As the cold sense of worry comes over you,
you clutch the necklace and there's a flash as you

watch Trinket's form burst from the necklace, gray
and shaded. And you see as Trinket pops out of

nowhere. By the way, between the two of you, you
guys are pretty crammed into here to not be in the

acid right now. You're both like (grunts).
(confused bear noises)

MARISHA: (bear noises) Where's Vex? Vex?

MATT: He's sniffing around.

LAURA: I was basically trying to let her know
where I was.

MARISHA: I saw him appear suddenly, right? Okay.
Vex? Okay, I pet Trinket for an indeterminate

amount of time. I wait.

LAURA: Can you chill? Right here. Because this is
where I am. Can we wait it out?

MATT: You can. How long can you hold your form?

MARISHA: Half my level.

MATT: Yeah, so you're here for a while. Okay. So
you guys sit and wait, carefully thinking,

contemplating. Over the next 30 minutes or so,
eventually you begin to watch as Vex'ahlia's form

begins to emerge once more into this plane.

SAM: She's back!

LAURA: This was the stupidest idea we've ever--

MARISHA and LAURA: (sobbing in relief)

LAURA: Trinket, get back in the necklace.

MATT: Trinket is licking your face intensely.

LAURA: You're such a good bear. Okay.

MARISHA: I want to drop my form. Is this it?

LAURA: That's it. But here's the thing, should you
glide back to the mansion, I stone back to the

mansion with the sword? Okay, give me the sword.

MARISHA: Okay. I give her the sword. I have the
sword. Is it the sword? It is the sword.

MATT: It's what you saw, yeah.

(cheering)

MARISHA and LAURA: Okay!

MARISHA: I know where the mansion is, right?
Vaguely?

LAURA: You can glide back to the mansion.

MATT: It might take you a little while, but you
can find your way back.

MARISHA: Okay, go? Okay, I'll see you soon.

LAURA: Okay. Good luck. And I'm going to think of
the stone. I already put Trinket back in the

necklace.

MATT: Okay. You concentrate for a minute as the
stone's energy fills you. You flash and all of a

sudden you're standing over the other stone--

MARISHA: And before she leaves, I say: Do a little
tap dance, so I know, on the outside where the

mansion is. I know where the mansion is, though.

MATT: Yeah. You know where it is.

MARISHA: Okay, that's fine. Okay.

LAURA: Okay. All right, I pick up the stones and
go in the mansion.

MATT: Okay, you grab the stones and go in the
mansion.

MARISHA: I doggie-paddle back.

MATT: As you make your way slowly in that
direction, you hear a little voice whisper in your

ear. "It's not going to help you."

(laughter)

LAURA: Oh, he would've--

MATT: Eventually, you slowly make your way to the
building, and as you emerge from the inside, you

can hear the loud flapping of wings nearby,
jumping from rooftop to rooftop.

MARISHA: I go in the mansion as fast as I can.

MATT: All right. You dart into the mansion. You
guys watch as Keyleth's elemental form bursts into

the mansion space with the rest of you.

LIAM: Oh my god.

I run forward and hug the big fucking stone
giant like a cat.

LAURA: This was really stupid. We were so dumb.
This was so dumb.

SAM: Is she back? Do you have the sword?

LAURA: I have the sword, yeah.

MARISHA: I drop form.

LAURA: There you go, Grog.

LIAM: We are blown.

SAM: We have to move. The safehouse has been
compromised.

LAURA: Okay, so here's the thing. He knows we're
here.

LIAM: He can't see us anymore, but he knows--

LAURA: He knows that you two are here. He doesn't
know the rest of us are.

MARISHA: He knows we're in this vicinity. I think
once we get into the mansion, he doesn't know an

exact place, so as long as they don't figure out
the mansion?

SAM: He doesn't know we're in here, but he knows
where the mansion is and he will come to dispel

it. So we have to get out of this mansion and
either make another mansion somewhere else or go

to somewhere else from inside this mansion right
now.

LAURA: We can Plane Shift.

MARISHA: I can Plane Shift us.

LAURA: Will you be able to get us back here,
though?

MARISHA: If we rest.

SAM: To this exact spot?

LAURA: Or to Thar Amphala?

MARISHA: If we leave from a mansion, I can
teleport us back to a mansion with some pretty

accurate-- it'd be the difference between the spa
or the kitchen. But if it's gone, then it's gone.

But then I could still bamf us back to Thar
Amphala or whatever other city that we came out of.

TALIESIN: Worst case scenario, we can leave the
gate stone outside.

MATT: There's a moment with a faint, whining,
high-pitched sound and this sudden thrust. There's

a sudden thrust of vacuum as the mansion around
you dissipates and you're all plopped onto the

ground outside of the cupboard where across,
crawled upward partway into the building, you see

a skeletal dragon standing there, its claws jammed
into the inside, its wings open, and you see

standing on the back of the dragon, finger
forward--

MARISHA: Plane Shift!

MATT: I know. Finger forward, finishing the Dispel
Magic she had cast, Delilah Briarwood, with behind

her, darkened armor, arms around: Sylas, grinning.
As she goes, "Oh. Glad you could make it.

"No, wait!" As soon as you gather, she's going to
attempt to Counterspell.

LAURA: Oh god.

ASHLEY: No, don't do it!

LAURA: Don't do it!

MATT: (chuckles) So Plane Shift is 7th-level,
right?

MARISHA: No, but I am doing it as an 8th-level
because I'm out-- I'm doing it as an 8th-level.

MATT: Okay, good to know. So where are you Plane
Shifting to?

MARISHA: Feywild.

MATT: Feywild, okay.

MARISHA: Do we have a city in the Feywild that we
know of that's safe-ish?

LAURA: Go to the pond.

MATT: That's a natural eight.

MARISHA: The pond! Fuck you! The pond!

MATT: As she attempts to counter the spell, even
at a higher level, it fizzles, unable to break

through. And all of you, as you watch her hand
extend and Sylas about to dismount--

TRAVIS: Say it.

MATT: (whoosh)

(yelling)

MATT: You find yourselves pulled out of Thar
Amphala.

(yelling)

TALIESIN: Fuck the Briarwoods!

MARISHA: Why did we do this?!

LAURA: That sword better be the most amazing
sword.

TALIESIN: We're practically gods. Let's be fair.
We're so fucked.

TRAVIS: Oh god. Jesus.

MATT: You guys all plop down, your feet hitting
the somewhat wet, grassy ground of the swamp where

you-- You said the pools where you first emerged
last time?

LAURA: Yeah, where the water elemental is.

MATT: Yeah. Where the nymph was. You guys all land
in these pools. Looking around, you can see the

darkened wood over you. The sound of crickets and
nearby insects fill the air, and for the first

time in a long time, though your blood pumping
would not tell you, a stillness and a peace in the

vicinity around you.

TALIESIN: Oh god, we should turn off our cell
phones more often. This feels really good. Oh god.

LIAM: Really cool.

TRAVIS: Immediate perception check around us.

MATT: Make a perception check.

TRAVIS: Oh, 17!

SAM: Music just got supes loud.

TRAVIS: 17.

MATT: All right. Glance about your vicinity. You
see nothing that has noticed your presence or

seems to be of interest to you at the moment.

TRAVIS: You all figure out what we're doing next.
And I put the bloodaxe away and I start

concentrating on this giant greatsword.

LAURA: Are we fucked?

MARISHA: Did we leave behind a gate stone? Did
someone say we were leaving one?

LAURA: No, I took all the gate stones.

TALIESIN: We thought about leaving one as a marker
for us.

LAURA: Yeah, but it doesn't go through planes.

MATT: As you concentrate on the cold metal of the
weapon, a different but still familiar sense

creeps in.

MARISHA: Oh no.

MATT: "I get the sense this isn't the first
time."

SAM: Wait. What?

TRAVIS: Well. You always remember your first.

MATT: "I also sense we have a similar goal."

TRAVIS: Could you be a little bit more specific?

(laughter)

LIAM: We all see this, right? He's not snuck off,
right? I'm going to come and sit next to him and

watch. What's up, buddy? Just keep doing your
thing. I'm ten feet away. I'm not breathing down

your neck. You all right?

TRAVIS: Are you hearing anything? Aces.

(laughter)

MATT: "The lich must die."

TRAVIS: The witch?

MATT: "The lich."

TRAVIS: Oh, the lich. Yeah. Are you talking about
Vecna?

MATT: "Yes."

(laughter)

TRAVIS: Then yes, we do share similar goals. I
don't know if you can hear me very well. Your

voice is barely there.

MATT: "Oh no." So are you inspecting it, or are
you attuning to it?

TRAVIS: I'm attuning! I'm locking it in.

LIAM: I'm going to assume I have deduced somewhat
what is going on here.

MATT: Yeah, he's talking to his weapon. You have
all seen this before, and it's as disconcerting

now as it was last time.

TRAVIS: Hey. Hi.

LIAM: Hey, man, you do you.

TRAVIS: I'm not even trying to hide it this time.

LAURA: You can definitely hear the sword?

TRAVIS: Yeah. Anybody else?

ALL: No.

TRAVIS: What?

ASHLEY: What's it saying?

TRAVIS: Oh! It was saying that we have similar
goals and that the witch must die. The lich is

Vecna. Lich. The lich. It's very emphatic about
the lich, meaning Vecna, and it's going to die.

MATT: "His secrets, his followers, all of it must
topple. You will be my instrument."

TRAVIS: Apparently, I'm going to be an instrument.
He's going to play me to topple the followers and

his secrets.

ASHLEY: What does it want from you in return?

TRAVIS: That's a good question, Pike! (whispering)
What do you require from me in return?

MATT: "Just wield me. Spill blood for me. Bring me
to the Undying King and cut his throat with my

"blade. That's all I ask. That's all I need."

TRAVIS: He really doesn't ask much. Just average
run-of-the-mill fight stuff. Be true to thy

friend. This one is nothing to worry about.

ASHLEY: Okay.

MATT: It's still currently embedded in its
scabbard.

TRAVIS: Oh. Reception problems. Hold on.

LAURA: I like that you grab it by the blade.

SAM: Weapons training.

TRAVIS: Yeah, I'm proficient.

MATT: You hear the sword go: "It's been so long."

LIAM: I'm going to Bless Grog right now. It's all
over you, buddy.

MATT: Make a charisma saving throw.

LIAM: Plus two from me, plus 1d4 from Bless. Plus
two, plus 1d4.

TRAVIS: Yeah, but minus two for my fucking curse.

LAURA: So it's balanced.

TRAVIS: 12.

MATT: 12? Okay.

TRAVIS: It's great.

MATT: Oh man.

LAURA: Oh no! Did we just lose Grog?

MATT: We'll say, for the purposes of this, that
the attunement is successful.

TALIESIN: That is the most frightening thing--

MARISHA: Does it have to be, though?

SAM: He's getting dice. A lot of dice.

MATT: All right.

SAM: A lot of dice.

MATT: You suffer 38 points of psychic damage. Your
vision goes cloudy. You guys watch as his skin

color goes from his general stone gray to a more
pale white. You watch as his physical body becomes

more gaunt. The jowls sink in slightly, and his
eyes turn a little red around the iris. Your

vision goes a bit dark, and the sword goes:
"Blood. I need blood. Give me blood. I'm so

"hungry." You find yourself standing up with the
blade out in front of you.

TRAVIS: Guys, I don't feel so great.

MATT: Make two attacks against Vax.

TRAVIS: That's who I was going to attack.

SAM: Vax or Vex?

MATT: Vax. He's the closest one.

TRAVIS: I didn't say reckless. Would he make them
reckless?

MATT: Not at the moment, no. He's not familiar
with your capabilities yet.

TRAVIS: 21.

LIAM: Yes.

MATT: It's a longsword, so roll 1d8.

TRAVIS: 1d8. Not raging.

LIAM: Wait, I'll use my last luck of the day to
make him reroll that.

TRAVIS: The damage or to hit?

LIAM: To hit.

TRAVIS: It's worse. 18.

LIAM: Doesn't hit.

MATT: Second strike.

TRAVIS: That's way worse. That's a 16.

MATT: You dodge both blows as Grog goes and swings
at you twice with the longsword.

LIAM: I disengage and jump back 15 feet.

LAURA: Grog! What are you doing?

TALIESIN: Give him some distance.

TRAVIS: I'm going to be totally full front
here. The sword needs blood.

LIAM: We can get that for you, just not from
inside us.

TRAVIS: I feel like it's trying to take it from
me.

MATT: Who's closer to Grog right now, between the
two of you?

TRAVIS: You jumped in front of him?

MATT: Two attacks on Vex, please.

LAURA: (shouting) Wait, Kas! Is this Kas? Are you
Kas? Kas, this is counterproductive. This is

counterproductive! We're all going after Vecna!
This is so stupid! You are ruining your chance of

killing Vecna by attacking us.

MATT: What was it?

TRAVIS: 27.

MATT: Roll 1d8. Add your strength modifier.

TRAVIS: Ten.

MATT: So you take ten points of slashing damage.
As the blade arcs across the front of your sister,

you see a spray of blood. Make a second attack.

TRAVIS: That hits.

MATT: Roll another d8.

TRAVIS: Oh, that's only a nine.

MATT: Nine damage. As she reels back from the
first strike, the second one cuts across the

shoulder and clavicle area, down the arm. As
another spray of blood hits, you pull back and

watch as the blade is now currently drenched in
Vex's blood.

TRAVIS: It's actually ten because I had to reroll
ones and twos.

LAURA: You're a fucking dick.

MATT: There you go. As the second attack comes to
a halt, you guys are watching him carve into Vex.

The blood on the edge of the blade seeps into it,
and your tunnel vision subsides, and you take a

breath. You hear this audible (sigh) from the
blade, as you have control of yourself once more.

TRAVIS: DÃ©ja vu.

LAURA: Your sword is a dick. Tell him he's a
dick.

TRAVIS: Now, listen. This is an ally. You're all
right, yeah? You're okay.

LAURA: I punch Grog across face.

MATT: Okay, make an attack. Add your strength
modifier.

LAURA: With my strength modifier? 14.

MATT: So she (crack) hits you in the jaw.

TRAVIS: Is it minus?

LAURA: It's minus.

MATT: It goes, (quiet punch).

LAURA: Act like it hurt, you fuck!

TRAVIS: (deadpan) Ow.

(laughter)

LIAM: Why are you not attacking us anymore?

(shouting)

TRAVIS: What?! This is the biggest card ever!

LIAM: That's a novel!

TALIESIN: That's a fucking dice tray. That's not a
card!

MARISHA: That is the biggest blackest sword!

(laughter)

LAURA: Oh, the sword is a dick! That's funny.

MATT: It all came full circle. It's the episode
title there. The sword is a dick.

SAM: Swords and dicks.

TRAVIS: Oh shit.

LAURA: Good? Bad?

TRAVIS: Good. Totally good. As with all good
things, comes with a bit of risk.

TALIESIN: What are we if not risk-conscious?

TRAVIS: Yeah, all the time. Even Pike would say
this is worth it.

LAURA: Pike, do you think it's worth it?

ASHLEY: Desperate times come for desperate
measures. Call for desperate measures, rather.

Here's the thing: if it comes down to it, it gets
bad, I can pull you out of there, hopefully. It's

not off to a good start. You slashed up Vex.

LIAM: Big man, why did you stop attacking after
you cut my sister?

TRAVIS: I got the feeling it needs to be fed blood
often.

MARISHA: Look, it doesn't have any blood on it
anymore. It sucked it all in.

TRAVIS: Funny thing, that's what Craven Edge used
to do, as well. Oh, what do I call you?

MATT: There's a long pause before it thinks. "I've
not taken a name but the one that's been given.

"But in honor of my last master, just call me
Kas."

TRAVIS: Vox Machina, meet Kas. Kas, try not to
hurt them.

MATT: "I make no promises."

TRAVIS: He makes no promises. He's very
forthcoming. This is really nice compared to the

last guy.

MARISHA: Hi, Kas!

TRAVIS: He said hi. He's like: I like your
freckles, Keyleth.

MARISHA: Aw, thanks, Kas.

MATT: "Take me to the lich."

TRAVIS: Okay, can I put you back in your
scabbard?

MATT: "Are you taking the scabbard to the Undying
King's innards?"

TRAVIS: Oh yeah. We're going to rock that body
real hard.

MATT: "Very well."

TRAVIS: Holy shit. I mean, there's motivated
people in the world, and then there's this totally

rocking motherfucker. He's of a single purpose.
It's incredible.

SAM: Just wants to kill Vecna?

TRAVIS: Just wants to fuck him up, Swiss cheese
style. And his whole family.

SAM: What else is he into?

LAURA: He's into slicing us up.

LIAM: Blood. He wants blood?

TRAVIS: It's good that you have me here, Vax. My
experience with these sort of weapons. They are

fueled by various-- I need a big word-- various
fuels, and I feel like he needs blood to be good.

LIAM: Could you do me a favor, then? Do you think,
instead of attacking my twin sister next time--

and I take Whisper and I go-- can I feed him for
you?

TRAVIS: Yeah.

MATT: You take 1d4 points of damage.

TRAVIS: That was my plan, but we could do it right
now. Just to be careful. You want to drip some on

the blade and see if he likes the flavor?

LIAM: I've already started. (dripping)

MATT: It seeps into the dark, almost pitch-black
metal. You hear the inhale of the blade as it

takes in the blood and seems to devour it.

TRAVIS: Guess he digs the other white meat.

MARISHA: Does he ever get full?

TRAVIS: No, I've asked that before, man. You don't
want to go that way.

LAURA: It went bad before.

TRAVIS: Yeah. It went all anime.

LIAM: Goddamn it, Travis. Then you and me have an
agreement here, rather than wait until he comes

knocking. In the meantime, could I feed him once
an hour or so?

TRAVIS: Yeah. In fact, any time I take him out of
the scabbard, why don't you hang real close. I

might have to plunge him into your thigh or
something.

LIAM: That seems extreme.

TRAVIS: I don't know how hungry he is.

MATT: Just a note, this conversation is strange,
since you're staring at Grog and his eyes are

burning a little red. The visual change is still
that way.

LAURA: Are you always like that now?

TRAVIS: Do I need some eye drops?

LAURA: Grog, you need to eat something. You look
really gaunt.

TALIESIN: Let's get him a steak or something.

SAM: You look like a methhead.

MATT: He's still muscular. All the skin is
pulled taut against the bone.

LAURA: I'm really glad that we're here in the
Feywild, and it's great.

LIAM: Vasselheim is getting fucked royally now, or
soon.

LAURA: What are we doing?

SAM: I want to see one of those before-and-after
meth photos of Grog.

(laughter)

MARISHA: This is Grog. This is Grog on Sword of
Kas.

TALIESIN: Sword of Kas, not even once.

(laughter)

LIAM: The straightest edge.

MARISHA: Just say no.

LAURA: (singing) D.A.R.E to keep a Grog off Kas!

TALIESIN: Wow, way to bring that back.

MATT: So what's the plan?

SAM: What is the plan? We're in the Feywild, where
there's werewolves and pixies.

TALIESIN: And your father.

LAURA: No, not anymore.

MARISHA: I've been thinking about this, just a
little. The Feywild, as you know, when we've left

before and when we go back, sometimes time gets a
little wibbly-wobbly.

SAM: I don't know that. I aged but didn't know
why.

MATT: That's true, you didn't.

LAURA: Time gets a little wonky here.

MARISHA: There were some things going on with you
at the time.

TALIESIN: Can we pinpoint when we get back?

LAURA: Is there a way to control it?

MARISHA: No.

TALIESIN: I was about to say, you've been thinking
about it, and the answer is no.

MARISHA: We can't, but do you remember
our friend Garmelie-slash-Artagan?

SAM: He was not our friend. He was an asshole.

LAURA: No, he was great!

MARISHA: He was cool.

SAM: Wasn't he the guy who sketched us and was
creepy?

LAURA: Yeah, he was funny, and he also helped us,
and he also enjoyed us because we were weird.

LIAM: Basically, it also describes you, so I feel
like you should be understanding.

SAM: Fair point. I lost my house today, all right? 
So go easy.

LAURA: You can get it later, right?

SAM: It's insured.

LAURA: Okay.

TALIESIN: We can also maybe have a second to
breathe and have a second to maybe identify that

stone we took.

SAM: We took a stone?

TRAVIS: Yeah, we got this blue crystal.

LAURA: Maybe Artagan can identify it.

TRAVIS: I take out the blue crystal. Is it still
pulsing?

SAM: Wait, why are we finding this Artagan
fellow?

MARISHA: Well, he's an archfey. He told us he was
an archfey. They more or less control this realm,

or at least have strong dominance over it. He
might be able to help us make sure that we're

going back in minutes as opposed to years.

LAURA: You think he could do that?

SAM: He can control the land? The powers of the
land?

LAURA: I don't know if he's going to be able to
control time, though.

TALIESIN: It's entirely possible that we could
return to where we were with only a few minutes

having passed.

LAURA: It's also possible that we'll return and
years have gone by and Vecna is already a god.

MARISHA: We have to talk to Artagan.

TALIESIN: Plead our case.

MARISHA: I bet he can help us. I don't know,
though.

TALIESIN: I don't think it's in anybody's interest
to have Vecna controlling any of the planes.

LAURA: Oh, that's true. Maybe he'll want to help
if he can?

TALIESIN: Yes. Perhaps.

LIAM: It's too much of a risk to go back normally
anyway. We might as well find him.

MARISHA: If he can help us, might still be able to
take a rest.

TALIESIN: Sleep. And return minutes later.

LAURA: (gasps) I'm going to cry. That would be so
wonderful.

MARISHA: (whimpering) I need to sleep so bad. I'm
so tired.

TALIESIN: You definitely have been sleep cranky.

LAURA: (stuttering) It was a thing. I'm so sorry
that Vecna found us. The ethereal thing was a

backfire.

LIAM: A series of bad decisions.

MARISHA: (whimpering) I felt so alone. Let's not
split the party, you guys.

TALIESIN: No, never again.

LAURA: How do we get a hold of--

SAM: Garmelie?

ASHLEY: I could send a message.

LAURA: To Garmelie?

LIAM: How do you mean?

ASHLEY: Well, I could use Sending.

TRAVIS: Oh yeah!

ASHLEY: Yeah. And we could write a little
something and say hello.

SAM: You don't say it, you have to write it down?

ASHLEY: Well, I have it. Let's look at this.

TRAVIS: Yeah, you want to? And spray it with
perfume?

ASHLEY: Yeah, put a kiss on it.

LIAM: He also might like a naughty doodle.

LAURA: Yeah, draw a little naughty doodle, Pike.

ASHLEY: Do a naughty doodle? Okay.

MATT: Sure, I'll allow it.

SAM: Ashley, will you draw something and show it
to us on the camera?

ASHLEY: Okay. I can't draw, but all right.

(laughter)

MATT: I'm so excited.

TALIESIN: This made everything worthwhile, right
here.

LIAM: The New York Yankees? That's terrible.

(laughter)

ASHLEY: Oh my gosh. This is already going bad.

LAURA: Is it boobies? Is it penis?

SAM: I think it's a vag.

TALIESIN: Travis, are you going to be reading that
weapon for the next week, aren't you?

LAURA: It's a novel.

SAM: Is this thing going to kill you? Can you read
it?

TALIESIN: Not all of it. That's the rest of the
show if he reads it.

MARISHA: Can it actually kill Vecna, even though
Vecna said it won't do us any good?

TRAVIS: It's going to put me a lot closer to doing
that.

LAURA: To killing Vecna?

MARISHA: Because Vecna was all like, "Oh, you
can't beat me!"

TRAVIS: The only weapon that does as much shit as
this does, the closest thing to it is your staff.

Your Vestige. This thing is bonkers.

LAURA: Let me see it!

ASHLEY: Okay.

LAURA: Okay, what did you draw? What did you draw,
Pike?

ASHLEY: I can't draw, and if only one of the
amazing artists were here. So okay, it's a penis.

(laughter)

SAM and TALIESIN: "Cum see us--"

MATT and ASHLEY: "--4 a good time."

TALIESIN: "Time" circled.

MATT: "This is Vox Machina, by the way."

(laughter and applause)

LAURA: He's a happy penis! Oh, it's so great!

MARISHA: It looks like a condomed penis.

MATT: It's not too bad. As you suddenly hear a
voice behind you, Vex, and you turn to look and

Artagan is right there behind you.

SAM: He came that fast?!

MARISHA: Don't tell people that, Artagan.

MATT: "I'll keep it a secret best I can. Best I
can." He stands there before you, his yellowish-green

attire with the high collar and his wild, orangish
hair framing his face like a lion's mane. His

pale, elfin, fey complexion. Smiles as he puts the
hands together. "Well. Show me a good time."

(nervous laughter)

LAURA: Okay.

SAM: I unzip my pants.

(laughter)

MATT: He doesn't flinch.

LAURA: I shimmy.

LIAM: Give me 12 minutes and I'll have 
this armor off.

TALIESIN: I am legit out of sheer panic going to
take off all of my clothes and dive straight into

that lake. That little pond? I'm washing. I have
had a nervous breakdown. I am like, yeah, no,

we're naked into the water.

MATT: "Well, that is considered good manners,
definitely."

LIAM: 11 minutes from now, I'm going to be joining
you, Percival.

TALIESIN: I'm in there, yelling into the water
right now because it's been too much.

MATT: "How have you been? What's going on?"

(yelling and laughter)

LAURA: It's been a little crazy, actually. We were
hoping that maybe we could seek your aid? Please?

MATT: "Define the request, please."

LAURA: Okay, so you know how time is weird when we
go back to the other plane of existence?

MATT: "Weird? Time is fun when you go back."

LAURA: Exactly. It's so much fun. We're in dire
straits over there. The world is about to be taken

over by an asshole that wants to be a god, and
we're trying to kill him, and we're here now, and

we're hoping that we can hang out here and rest
and go back and only a few seconds have passed?

Maybe a minute or two?

SAM: Is that something you can control?

MATT: (chuckles) "Are you telling me that you
would stumble into this space unannounced, summon

"me here under the pretense of a good time, and
then request me to bend the very essence of time

"passage between my plane and yours?"

MARISHA: We can show you a good time first.

LAURA: We definitely do want to show you a good
time about it.

LIAM: And what is your idea of a good time?
Unbutton, unbutton.

TRAVIS: And we certainly don't expect that to be
accomplished without something given in return. Of

course.

MATT: "Now we're talking. I could help."

LAURA: You can do that?

MATT: "More or less."

SAM: And what would you request?

MATT: "Well... You all dress very differently than
the last time we met. You're doing well for

"yourselves, then?"

LIAM: It's been a hard day.

LAURA: We have a bakery.

MATT: "That's quaint."

MARISHA: In comparison to the world events--

SAM: I'm pretending to be a mage right now, so.

TRAVIS: We fought of a bunch of ancient dragons.
We've established order back in our realm.

LIAM: I'm unkillable for a while.

MATT: "That's fun."

LIAM: (high-pitched) Well.

SAM: I'm a crime lord. I can get you really
good discount furniture.

TALIESIN: Coming back sopping wet and naked I'll
say: And we've got this weird thing that we're not

entirely sure about.

LAURA: We found this ball of light. Crystal.

MATT: "Tell you what. I'll help you under two
conditions. One: should you go back and defeat

"this wannabe god thing you speak of and all is
well and you're heroes and you have all of this

"influence and money and everything's grand, we can
discuss maybe creating a doorway for me that

"allows passage. I'll come visit and see what
strangeness your world seems to have whenever I'd like."

MARISHA: I don't know if you'd like it.

MATT: "Oh, I'm sure I can figure out a way."

LIAM: It's real dicey at the moment.

MATT: "But I'm sure if you succeed, that won't be
a problem, and if you fail, well, then I guess the

"deal's off, anyway."

TRAVIS: Very true.

LAURA: Good point.

MATT: "Second: I wish to strangle you until
death."

(laughter)

SAM: He's into autoerotic asphyxiation?

TRAVIS: (laughing) Amazing! Oh my god!

LIAM: Wait, Grog. I'm sorry. Come again?

MATT: "I wish to put my hands on your throat until
you expire. If you say you're unkillable, well,

"that's a new experience entirely."

LIAM: Okay. Okay. Okay.

LAURA: Will you come back? Have we tested this?

TRAVIS: Vex, be quiet.

LIAM: I have one further request on our end. Can
you send us backward in time?

MATT: "I'm afraid it doesn't work that way, but I
could give the mere passage of an hour."

SAM: Mere passage of an hour? That's good, yeah.

MATT: "Day for an hour. I think it's a fair trade,
yes?"

MARISHA: Can you give us a full day in order to
make sure that he does come back?

MATT: "Sure. Day for an hour. 24 hours are yours
to do as you like."

MARISHA: You would come back in 24 hours, right?

SAM: Can I ask one question first? Will you be
pleasuring yourself during this?

MATT: He actually laughs at this and goes, "I
think the process will be enjoyable enough."

SAM: Oh. I respect you so much.

TALIESIN: Since we're making a deal, I want to
make sure of a few things, because I love making

deals. First of all, as perhaps a token of
friendship, do you have any idea what this is? I

am still apologetically naked and wet.

MATT: "It's a pulse stone."

ALL: A what?

MATT: "A pulse stone."

LAURA and SAM: What is that?

MATT: "It's meant to distract undead.

SAM: How do you activate it?

MATT: "It just does."

TALIESIN: Thank you. Second question is: when we
do return in an hour, where are we going to

reappear?

MATT: "That's up to you. I'm just altering the
time flow. Do you not have a means of returning?

"You found your way here."

SAM: The place that we're meaning to return to is
moving. Could you send us to a moving place?

LAURA: It's Keyleth that's sending us back, and
she can.

SAM: Can you send us back? We have to send
ourselves back?

MATT: "I'm concentrating on the passage of time.
That's a large enough endeavor in itself."

MARISHA: I can get us back to Thar Amphala on the
Material Plane and specify that, but it doesn't

specify where we're going to land in Thar
Amphala.

TALIESIN: This is great.

MARISHA: I got a question, Artagan. Do you know
if--

LAURA: Is is Artagan or Artagan?

MATT: "Take your preference. I'm just happy to
have friends."

SAM: Garmelie?

MATT: "If you must." And he winks, and for a
second you see his form shimmer and you see the

small satyr image for a moment before it restores
to his grand visage.

TALIESIN: Another strange question: have you ever
had access to our world before?

MATT: "A long time ago."

TALIESIN: Have I read about this cat?

MATT: Make an intelligence check. Just the
intelligence modifier.

SAM: I don't remember being in the Feywild at all,
or meeting him.

LAURA: You don't?

SAM: Right?

MATT: Well, it was restored via spell.

SAM: Oh, that's right. But does that restore
memories?

MATT: As part of the actual effect, yeah.

TALIESIN: Nope.

MATT: You have no idea who he is.

TALIESIN: Nope, no idea. None, nope. I have no
idea.

LAURA: You've had access, but you were blocked?

MATT: "Things rearrange every eon or so, and the
ley lines that guide the paths shift, and I

"haven't been able to get back since."

TRAVIS: That seems most unfortunate.

LAURA: You're not going to become addicted to
strangling people because you've tried it on him.

MATT: "I don't know. I haven't tried it."

TALIESIN: How long does he have to be dead in your
hands before you decide that it's worked?

LIAM: Can I tell if he's lying?

MATT: Sure, make a deception check. Sorry, an
insight check.

LIAM: 18.

MATT: Lying about which one?

LIAM: Never strangled someone before.

MATT: You have no idea. He's slippery. He's
mercurial.

TALIESIN: This is the problem with fey. They don't
tend to lie, they tend to tell just most of the truth.

LIAM: All right. With a couple of provisions here,
all right? One: you cannot say shit while you're

doing this.

LAURA: He's not allowed to talk?

LIAM: That is correct.

MATT: "Fair enough. I think it would spoil the
moment, anyway."

LIAM: Two. And this includes the rest of you lot:
everybody leaves, except for Scanlan and Grog, and

they stay.

MARISHA: What?

TALIESIN: No, I'm all right with that.

LAURA: I don't want to see it.

TRAVIS: I think that's a fair request.

SAM: Can I pleasure myself?

TALIESIN: I whap Scanlan on the head.

LIAM: I don't know how to feel about this!

LAURA: Let him do it. You'll come back, right?

LIAM: Oh, Vax is okay. That was Liam just now.

(laughter)

MARISHA: This is so weird. Okay, wait. Keyleth
pulls Vax aside.

LAURA: Gross, stop!

TRAVIS: It's like a dog, you got to pull him off
your calf!

MARISHA: Are you sure about this? Are you okay
with this?

LIAM: I'll see you soon.

MARISHA: We can ask if he wants something else!

LIAM: Ask him. I don't think he does.

MARISHA: And you'll be back, yeah?

LIAM: Probably.

MARISHA: In 24 hours or so?

LIAM: I'll be back.

ASHLEY: Wait, but how do we know for sure?

SAM: Yeah?

LIAM: Guys, go. Go on.

SAM: We have no choice, Pikey.

TALIESIN: This is what's happening.

TRAVIS: We got an eye. We'll keep the rule of
law.

SAM: Do you want to stay, too, Pikey?

LIAM: Percy?

ASHLEY: I'm not going to stay if he doesn't want
me to stay.

LIAM: Take Keyleth out of here, please.

TALIESIN: Absolutely.

MARISHA: Wait, no! Wait! I try to give him a kiss
before we leave, before getting dragged out.

TRAVIS: Vax, I want you to know I've never been
more proud of you than I am right now.

LIAM: I want you to laugh your fucking ass off,
all right?

TRAVIS: I might. I'm just saying, you're about to
buy the ticket and take the ride of a literal

fucking lifetime.

MARISHA: This is fucking weird.

TRAVIS: You're not here anymore.

MARISHA: I'm saying as myself: this is fucking
weird.

SAM: This is weird. This is like a weird snuff
film.

MATT: I don't know where this came from?

TRAVIS: How do you feel? Are you nervous?

MARISHA: What?

LIAM: You keep an eye, have him drag me somewhere
safe, and keep an eye on me.

SAM: Sure.

TRAVIS: Can I put my hand on his chest? Is the
heart still beating?

MATT: Yeah, slow.

TRAVIS: Is it beating any faster? Because he's
nervous.

MATT: A hint.

TRAVIS: Still pretty chill.

TALIESIN: Do you still have advantage on death
saving throws because of that thing that we did a

while back? Or is that long gone? Never mind.
Carry on.

TRAVIS: Do you want us to hold anything? Do you
want to wear your clothes?

LIAM: Let's stop talking, folks. Could you look
after Keyleth, please?

LAURA: Of course, darling.

LIAM: See you tomorrow.

LAURA: See you in a bit.

ASHLEY: Don't you do anything else! You just
strangle him until he dies, and then you leave him

alone.

(laughter)

MATT: "I wouldn't dream of trying, little one.
Don't worry."

TALIESIN: Well, this may be the weirdest thing.
This is not the worst thing.

LAURA: Artagan, this is weird as fuck.

MATT: "Welcome to my world."

LAURA: All right. I slowly walk away.

MATT: Okay. Pike, have you left as well?

ASHLEY: Yes. I'm going to honor your wishes, Vax.
I'm going to go swim.

LAURA: Yeah, I'm going to swim.

TALIESIN: Everyone's backing off.

LAURA: We're swimming naked while my brother is
dying. No big.

MARISHA: Oh my god.

LIAM: Hey, Grog. All he gets to is strangle me to
death. That's it.

TRAVIS: All right. What about after you're dead?

LIAM: No.

TRAVIS: No touch at all, no pickle?

LIAM: Neither Artagan or Scanlan are able to do
anything to me once I'm out.

TRAVIS: Oh! Oh, okay. Yeah. Right.

LIAM: And then make sure he doesn't lose me in the
woods or something, okay?

SAM: You'll be fine. This will be harrowing for
you, but you'll be fine. We'll bring you back.

LIAM: It's been so much fun until now.

SAM: This is a sacrifice.

TRAVIS: Yeah, everything in your life has been
leading up to this point. This is the pinnacle.

This is great!

LIAM: Don't speak.

TRAVIS: Fair enough.

LIAM: I walk up to Artagan. All right, fucknut,
let's do this.

MATT: "You believe this? You really believe you're
going to come back if you die?"

LIAM: (clicks tongue)

MATT: "Fair play. To the immortals." And he takes
your throat and begins to squeeze, his eyes locked

in, and he keeps watching you.

LAURA and MARISHA: This is so dark.

TRAVIS: I step up behind Vax in case he has an
involuntary reaction to reach up to his arms. Just

to keep his arms down.

MATT: He locks in.

LIAM: No fear, remember.

MATT: Yeah. Without making any other noise,
continues to apply pressure. Eventually, your

vision begins to go dark.

LAURA: I'm so glad we can't see this.

TALIESIN: Yeah, no. Underwater.

MARISHA: I'd be freaking out.

SAM: I look away.

TRAVIS: I don't.

ASHLEY: I'm peeking out of the pond.

TALIESIN: I grab her and drag her right back to
the pond.

MATT: This is so weird.

TRAVIS: This is your head, man.

MATT: I know!

LIAM: You could have asked for a magic wand or a
unicorn, a pony.

MATT: It was a fascination with something
different and new and you said "cannot die," and

that immediately piqued his interest. Even the
nicest of fey are weird and have their dark

sides.

LIAM: Preach, David Bowie.

MATT: Yeah. You watch over the next minute or so
as he strangles the life out of Vax.

LAURA: Oh my god!

TRAVIS: Are you hungry right now?

(laughter)

MATT: This is so fucked up!

TALIESIN: This is quality internet.

MATT: I know. Limp in his grasp, Garmelie
eventually pulls one hand back. Still holds him

now; his feet are dangling, and goes like:
"Satisfying, but not what I thought it would be."

At which point, you watch as the body and flesh of
Vax begins to burn to ashes out of the armor, and

the armor falls to the ground in pieces.

TRAVIS: Oh god. Okay.

MARISHA: Well, last time he got disintegrated, so
we didn't really see him evaporate. But that makes

sense.

TRAVIS: I'm going to look at Scanlan. Were you
expecting this at all?

SAM: No, not at all. What the fuck is this?

TRAVIS: I'm going to grab the armor, if you don't
mind.

MATT: "Of course. It's yours."

TRAVIS: Oh, thank you.

SAM: I'll scoop up everything.

TRAVIS: Let's go away from the group, into the
trees. Hopefully, that won't kill us. And we lay

it down.

SAM: I'll make a little circle of rocks.

MARISHA: Oh, stop it! I kick the rocks out of
formation.

TRAVIS: You're not there!

MARISHA: Oh, I thought he dragged it outside.

TALIESIN: They're in the woods. We're in the
pond.

TRAVIS: I wanted to shave half of his head because
he shaved my beard that one time, but there's

really nothing left of him right now.

SAM: I don't think that that would be a good time
to do this.

MATT: As you guys are swimming, the water breaks
and you see the still dry hair as it emerges from

the pool of Garmelie, though he is now undressed
in the water, as well. "Ah! So that's one deal

"done. Where do you wish to rest?"

LAURA: Oh. Is it safe to rest?

MATT: "While I'm here, yes."

LAURA: Okay. (whimpers) Should we wait? We need to
wait 24 hours to bring him back. It takes 24 hours?

LIAM: Nobody knows that.

SAM: I don't know that.

MARISHA: Somewhere in that time? How long did it
take last time? It wasn't a full 24 hours, but it

was the next day.

LAURA: It was that night.

MARISHA: I don't want to leave.

TALIESIN: Might be a dawn thing. We moved and he
appeared.

TRAVIS: That's the thing about dawn. It takes a
while out here, doesn't it?

TALIESIN: Dawn doesn't really exist out here. It's
just a rest.

LIAM: It's like a Vegas casino: it's always the
same twilight.

LAURA: All right, well. Okay.

TALIESIN: Is there somewhere else that we could go
to recuperate?

TRAVIS: Wasn't expecting the ashes part.

LAURA: Yeah, this is crazy.

TRAVIS: I expected the crash test dummy. Weekend
at Bernie's. I had a whole fucking theme park

lined up.

(laughter)

ASHLEY: Is it bad if we set up camp right here?

LAURA: Yeah, let's set up camp here. We know this
area.

MATT: "Of course! Please." And he points over and
you look back to where you were on the edge of the

pool, and you can see there's a bunch of stumps
that weren't there before that seem to have

elongated into chairs and couches and bits of
furniture.

LAURA: Oh shit. Nice.

MATT: "Thank you."

LAURA: (sighs)

SAM: Are we going to rest here?

LAURA: Yeah, but we need to do a feast before we
go back. Well, the thing is, it uses a spell, so

it has to be within the 24 hours.

TALIESIN: That will be the last thing we do
before we go to sleep.

LAURA: Okay, but I want Vax to have the feast, as
well, so--

MARISHA: Can we save him leftovers?

SAM: Do we have to wait a whole day before he
comes back?

TRAVIS: We don't know.

LAURA: We don't know how long it takes. We can try
to wait and see how long it takes and then rest?

MARISHA: Maybe.

TALIESIN: We have a little time.

LAURA: Let's give it some time.

MARISHA: Besides, Garmelie gave us his word.

TALIESIN: One day.

MATT: "One day."

MARISHA: So we might as well wait a few hours, at
least, right?

SAM: Anything else we can accomplish here?

MATT: "We can play."

LAURA: This feels weird to play.

MATT: "Oh, do about yourselves. You seem disturbed
by my presence."

TRAVIS: I do have a question.

MATT: "Yes?"

TRAVIS: Are you familiar with the werewolves that
roam these lands?

MATT: "I am familiar with the werewolves that now
roam these lands, yes."

TRAVIS: Right. Are they around this part?

MATT: "No, not at the moment."

LAURA: You can sense them?

MATT: "I have an idea where they might be. I know
when they're not near me."

TRAVIS: That's all. I'm just saying. Just
curious.

LAURA: Hey, Artagan. Does killing a wannabe god
sound fun to you?

MATT: "Sounds interesting."

LAURA: It would be much more fulfilling than
strangling a person that didn't fight back, right?

MATT: "I don't know."

LAURA: Would you want to come through with us?

MARISHA: Give a little tour of our land that you
so desperately want access to.

TALIESIN: There's currently a giant city walking
its way towards another giant city.

TRAVIS: Some sweet action with some stuff maybe
you haven't seen before.

TALIESIN: A skeletonized dragon. A gold dragon.

MARISHA: Undead dwarves.

TALIESIN: Cannibal undead dwarves.

TRAVIS: One-eyed prick named Vecna.

MATT: "I mean, that'd be great but I can't."

LAURA: Oh. You have to have a specific doorway.

MATT: "Once you have the door, I'd be happy to
join you."

LAURA: Okay. And that's a time-consuming sort of
thing?

MATT: "Depends how long you can build a
doorway, I suppose."

MARISHA: Sounds like a time-consuming thing.

MATT: "Most likely. No offense to any of you if
you're carpenters."

TALIESIN: No, we've had an enormous amount of
trouble with doors in our time.

(laughter)

TALIESIN: Very tricky.

MATT: "Well, take your time! Rest. Food is
prepared. You can go amongst yourselves. I'll be

"here, splashing away." And he splashes into the
water.

TRAVIS: That guy knows how to relax.

MARISHA: Is that how he lives all the time?

TRAVIS: Think so. Yeah, probably nude.
Probably put clothes on to be nice around us.

LAURA: Sylas is alive.

TRAVIS: What did you say?

SAM: Sylas. She said Sylas is alive.

LAURA: Sylas is back.

TRAVIS: Briarwood?

LAURA: Yeah, didn't you see him right before we
left? He was right in front of Delilah.

TALIESIN: I'm watching to see if anyone eats the
food.

TRAVIS: No. I was eating all the food in the
mansion.

MATT: Plenty of food on these small stools here
and there.

MARISHA: Remember what?

SAM: I don't know what I was going to say.

TRAVIS: Didn't you evaporate him with a Sunbeam or
something? And then we like killed him in a

coffin?

LAURA: We killed him.

MARISHA: Sylas? Yeah.

LAURA: Wasn't it Pike who killed Sylas or was it
you? It was you. Oh, that's right, and you said

"eat a bag of dicks."

MARISHA: That was the bag of holy dicks moment.
Bag of holy dicks.

TALIESIN: It's been a long time.

MARISHA: Yeah, I shot the beam off of Pike's
shield. It was actually pretty dope.

LAURA: Great, so he's back.

ASHLEY: I'm going to go over by Vax's armor and
stuff. Just sit there and flop it around.

MATT: Okay.

SAM: Armor fluffer?

MATT: Is there anything you guys wish to
accomplish in this time, or do you want to take

time to wait to see if your friend returns?

LAURA: What can we accomplish? What can we do?
There's got to be something we can do.

SAM: I need to accomplish something.

LAURA: What do you need to do?

SAM: I don't know. I have a spell, and I can use
it before we rest, but I don't know what to use it on.

LAURA: What is it?

SAM: Well, I can do a few different things before
we sleep. We can go out into the woods and find an

animal, a big animal. I could turn it into
something, like a flying thing that we could give

to Grog so he could fly. Fly with that sword.

LAURA: Like a mount sort of situation?

SAM: Like a wyvern.

LAURA: You can turn an animal into a wyvern?

SAM: Sure.

LAURA: Any animal?

SAM: A big animal.

LAURA: Bigger than Trinket?

SAM: I would love to turn Trinket into a wyvern.

(laughter)

LAURA: Is it permanent?

SAM: Yes.

LAURA: Oh, never mind, then.

TRAVIS: Is it a big spell for you?

SAM: Yeah.

LAURA: Trinket? Would you want to be turned into a
wyvern?

SAM: Forever.

MATT: (questioning bear noise)

LAURA: Hold on, let me see if I've got Speak With
Animals. I don't think I have it. It's 1st-level,

I can still do it! Trinket?

MATT: "Yes?"

LAURA: Would you want to be turned into a wyvern
forever? (whispering) Say no.

MATT: "What's a wyvern?"

LAURA: It's like a lizard that's really big that's
got wings. Not so much? Okay. Just checking. I

just wanted to make sure. It's your choice,
darling.

SAM: Did he say yes?

LAURA: No, he said no.

SAM: I knew that. I can speak with animals, too.

(laughter)

LAURA: You haven't been saying shitty things to my
bear, have you?

SAM: All year.

(laughter)

LAURA: Trinket, don't ever listen to him. He's
horrible.

MATT: (spits)

(laughter)

SAM: Or--

TRAVIS: Or?

SAM: Or I could do other things.

LAURA: Like what?!

SAM: I could do other things. I could make another
compatriot for us to have in battle.

LAURA: Like another Artagan?

SAM: Like another Scanlan. Or another Pike.

LAURA: Would they be fully capable to cast all
your spells?

SAM: Yes.

LAURA: Oh shit!

LIAM: Spells.

SAM: Or I could do other things.

TRAVIS: Actually, that last one is pretty dope.

LIAM: Yeah, two Scanlans.

TRAVIS: Get all your turns, all your everything?
Two times whoever you make?

SAM: I don't know. Never done this before.

LAURA: Oh my god, what kind of spell is this?

SAM: It's a crazy spell.

TRAVIS: Do that one. Fuck the flying thing.

SAM: But if you could fly--

TRAVIS: Yeah, I know he hovers and flies, but.

SAM: Yeah. You could bring that sword to his
neck.

LIAM: Could you give Grog wings?

SAM: It's a real thing. Magic would not stop it
from flying. It would be a real thing.

LAURA: A real thing that could be killed right out
from under him, though.

SAM: Sure, but it couldn't be dispelled with
magic.

TALIESIN: Could be disintegrated, though.

LAURA: And then Grog would fall.

LIAM: Right.

TRAVIS: Can you cast Fly on somebody?

SAM: No. I can turn you into an eagle.

LAURA: Not with that sword.

TRAVIS: No. The option of having a second caster
like you is way bigger than making me fly.

SAM: Another Scanlan who could easily be
destroyed.

LAURA: Well, but so could one of us.

SAM: Well, it'll be a magic thing that could be
dispelled.

TRAVIS: If they know it's magic.

MARISHA: But you just said the other thing
couldn't be destroyed.

SAM: That thing couldn't. That would be a
different spell altogether.

TRAVIS: I still like that idea better.

SAM: There's other things, too.

LAURA: Like what?!

(laughter)

SAM: I could cast a spell on one of us that if you
died, it would activate, and it would heal you.

LAURA: Completely?

SAM: No.

LAURA: Oh, Death Ward. Pike can cast that.

MARISHA: Whatever you do, I can get me plus eight
other people through with Plane Shift. Eight

willing creatures.

SAM: But my Death Ward would last for ten days.

TALIESIN: There are not going to be ten days. We
don't need a ten-day Death Ward. We need a one-day

Death Ward.

LAURA: Plus, we all have our blessings-- not all
of us. We have some blessings from gods that will

activate, hopefully, right before.

MARISHA: Can you do a one-day blessing on ten of
us?

TRAVIS: Can you cast Haste?

SAM: No. I mean, I could, but it seems like a
shitty use--

TRAVIS: If there's two of you and you could cast
Haste on me, I'd take that over the flying

creature.

SAM: If there's two of me.

TALIESIN: Well, you with Haste would be
horrifying.

TRAVIS: It's nasty. It doesn't get me off the
ground, but at close speed. I'd have a hundred

feet of movement.

LAURA: And another attack.

TRAVIS: Yeah. Plus an action surge.

SAM: I can't cast Haste. I don't know it.

LAURA: You can't? Hey, Pike, do you know Haste?

ASHLEY: No. It's not a cleric spell.

SAM: Who does?

LIAM, LAURA and TALIESIN: None of us have it.

TALIESIN: Just the boots.

LAURA: Okay.

TRAVIS: You've got a decision to make. We've got
sleep to get.

MATT: You've got time to think. We'll say for the
purposes of the time you have been waiting. Hours

pass. You're not sure how much time has passed.
You've plotted, you've thought, you've napped,

you've contemplated this weird bubble of time that
now exists, this brief respite, but where it leads

you is unique and strange. As you all begin to
question and wonder, is he going to come back?

Does he come back here? Last time you saw him, he
arrived with you in the Feywild.

TRAVIS: Oh, and he died in the Material Plane?
(gulps) Oh shit.

MATT: But you carried the ashes with you then. As
soon as these doubts begin to emerge, you turn at

the sound of a footfall and around the corner,
hand on the side of a tree, you see for the second

time in this grove a nude Vax'ildan.

SAM: Oh!

MARISHA and ASHLEY: (sighs of relief)

TRAVIS: (cheers)

MATT: And that's where we'll end tonight's game.

TRAVIS: For the second time: butt-naked ending!

MATT: Because it is past 11. Man, a lot of weird
shit happened that game!

TRAVIS: Fuck!

MARISHA: I have to go home with you.

MATT: I'm sorry! It made sense for him in the
moment!

TRAVIS: No, that was--

LAURA: Awesome.

MATT: It was a weird, dark shade of the fey you
don't see.

TRAVIS: It was the best thing I could have ever
hoped you said.

LIAM: I didn't expect it.

LAURA: It certainly made us opening a doorway so
he can get into the real world a little bit more

questionable.

MARISHA: Yeah.

MATT: But that's the fun of it. How much can you
trust any fey?

TALIESIN: No. They're monstrous. I'm so excited.

MATT: Man, I'm sorry the etherealness went
bottoms-up.

LIAM: Oh my god.

TALIESIN: No, it was great.

LAURA: We still did it! We still got it!

LIAM: We came close to fucking up that ring
proximity thing seven times, and then finally we

did fuck it up.

MATT: It was probably an eventuality. (laughs)

SAM: Can the episode title be "Dicks and Dicks"?

(laughter)

MATT: I'll see what I can do.

TALIESIN and MARISHA: Dungeons and Dicks.

MATT: But anyway, thank you guys. We're going to
get some rest. Thank you guys for going with us

through this very interesting episode.

LAURA: Ashley, your drawing was amazing.

TRAVIS: Ashley!

LIAM: Post that shit!

MATT: Yeah. We'll return next week, and I think
we'll have a special guest next week.

SAM: What? Is that true?

MATT: Yeah.

TRAVIS: Thank you, Marvel Puzzle Quest.

ALL: Thank you, Marvel Puzzle Quest.

SAM: Show them support, show them love, guys. They
really appreciate it. Tweet at them, follow them

on Facebook, add them as a LinkedIn friend. Sext
them.

LIAM: Check their Myspace.

MARISHA: Sext them? Yeah, send them a bunch of
porn links.

LAURA: No, don't do that. Please don't do that.

MARISHA: That was a joke!

(laughter)

MATT: Anyway, rest well, see you guys in a week,
and is it Thursday yet? Good night.

[music]