MATT: Hello, everyone, and welcome to tonight's
episode of Critical Role, where a bunch of us

nerdy-ass voice actors sit around and play
Dungeons and Dragons. Glad you could join us for

what is essentially the final and epilogue episode
of our five-year campaign. We're excited you guys

could come join us.

SAM: Not the final episode of the show!

MATT: We will return. We're looking probably at
the start of the new year with a new campaign, new

characters.

LAURA: But we'll have one-shots and stuff in
between.

MATT: Yeah, we'll have fun stuff to break it up
and give us some time to let off some steam in the

meantime. But before we get into tonight's game,
let's get through some quick announcements. First

off, we wanted to give a shout out. If you guys
haven't seen it yet, Shadow of War just came out,

the sequel to Shadow of Mordor. A bunch of us have
worked on it and if you haven't seen, we had the

opportunity to do a cool thing with WB Games and
the folks at Monolith. We did a Shadow of War

one-shot that was uploaded as a two-parter.

LAURA: It was so much fun!

LIAM: You were so cute, all of you. It was the
cutest orc adventure that ever happened.

SAM: You watched it?

LIAM: Both episodes.

LAURA: Thanks bro!

MATT: It was a lot of fun. We had Sam, Laura,
Travis, and the illustrious Darin De Paul as our

four orcs and/or olog-hai, charging their way
through Mordor in hopes of victory spoils and all that.

LAURA: It's real fun to be stupid.

TRAVIS: I don't know what you're talking about.

MATT: So I recommend checking it out if you
haven't yet. Merch update, Laura?

LIAM: Wait! Something I can say now. I didn't have
the green light, but I am in that game. I had to

fib and say that I wasn't in that game, but I'm in
that game! I am back as Gollum! And I run around

and I do this, and I do this, and I do this, and I
do this. (Gollum voice) Tasty fish!

MATT: If you guys haven't seen Liam's Gollum in
the games, it's the most ridiculous--

TRAVIS: Also to point out, you did the full mo-cap
for it. Not just the VO.

LIAM: Broke my back, scuttled around like I was a
young buck, which I'm not. It was great!

LAURA: I wish I still had the video of you that
you sent me after you first started, yeah. When he

first started playing Gollum, he sent me this
video of him running around his living room,

jumping up on his couch, then running over and
jumping up your entertainment system or

something.

LIAM: I put my laptop on the coffee table, I hit
click, and I started going--

LAURA: It was so amazing.

LIAM: Because I'm a nerd.

MATT: Awesome. Well, thank you for the follow-up
on that, Liam. Laura?

LAURA: Oh, well, technically, I have to shove this
one to Liam and Taliesin, as well.

TALIESIN: I feel like we've been doing the thing
for a while now.

LIAM: Yeah, like when parents have a baby, you
don't see them for a while. They're with that baby

every hour, every minute.

(yelling)

LIAM: Oh my gosh, it's the new art book! Oh my
god, it's gorgeous! I took it out of the Ark of

the Covenant, and here it is!

LAURA: Okay, I should qualify this, because it's
not in the store yet, you guys, so don't go to the

store and freak out. It just came into the
office.

LIAM: Yeah, this is just our viewing copy. There
will be more details--

SAM: What does it say on the title there?

LIAM: It says The Chronicles of Exandria: The Tale
of Vox Machina. One.

SAM: Volume One? Implying that there's going to be
more?

TALIESIN: Implying that we'd like to.

LIAM: We'd like there to be. And you guys can tune
in next week to Talks Machina, where we will have

more info, more details.

LAURA: We'll say when they're going to go in the
store.

MATT: Can you give a teaser flip of any pages?

LIAM: I have been told that I cannot give a teaser
flip. But wait, guys. There's more! Taliesin, if

you would?

TALIESIN: Well, we did two editions because we
wanted to do something a little ridiculous. And so--

SAM: What is this? A special edition?

TALIESIN: This is a special edition. It's a little
more fancy. It's got the ribbon and leather and

gold foil. It's got an evil tome vibe, and it's
got lots of little wonderful details.

LIAM: We have held that book and looked through
it. I cried 97 times in one minute. It is so

beautiful.

MARISHA: It really looks like crying for 60
seconds.

LAURA: Tune in to Talks Machina on Tuesday. We'll
give you more details about how you can purchase

them. And you can always check out
geekandsundry.com/artbook for more updates.

They're coming soon. They should be in the
warehouse very soon, so that's happy for the

holidays.

LIAM: Joe Madureira art!

LAURA: I'm excited!

TALIESIN: Yeah, there's lots to talk about in
these books. I'm very excited!

TRAVIS: And to cure any freakout, Ashley is going
to join us. She's finishing up.

MATT: Finishing up shooting on Blindspot. So
she'll pop in when she can.

LAURA: This is her day job!

TALIESIN: We keep trying to tell her that, don't
we?

LIAM: Wait. There's one last thing.

SAM: Two more editions of the art book!

LIAM: I got one last thing, for funsies. It's a
really late birthday present. It's kind of for

funsies, but Travis, I have something for you that
I've been wanting to give you for a while.

SAM: Is that an experience?

TRAVIS: Can I open it?

LIAM: Yeah, go for it.

TRAVIS: What the fuck is this? (gasps)

SAM: Is it the Belt of Dwarvenkind?!

(yelling)

LAURA: Look at how big the face is!

TRAVIS: Oh my god! Hug me through my wife! That's
so great! I can't get hit in the dick with this

on! This is amazing! It really covers the whole
kit and kaboodle!

LIAM: And your beard will double in length the
moment you put it on. I had to repay you for the

raven mask you gave me, once upon a time.

LAURA: Oh yeah, our drunken ren fair purchases. I
was like, "that's a cool mask! Where'd you get it?"

And you said, "you got that for me."

LIAM: Your husband just bought this for me!
Thanks, Laura!

MATT: There you go. Also immune to poison. Good
job. Perfect! So other updates. We are officially

announcing the second edition of Vox Machina:
Origins, the Critical Role comic. It's going to be

available October 18th, so look for that on all
your great comic book-- Comixology, the Dark Horse

app, and all the other places that I can't think
of right now. But yeah, so super exciting. This

one starts bringing in some of the other members
of Vox Machina who didn't show up in the first

issue. So take a look at it, hope you guys enjoy.

Let's see. Other quick announcements. Wednesday
Club, Taliesin, you have coming up?

TALIESIN: Yeah, it's October, so we're doing
Halloween. We're doing Hellboy, which I don't

really know much about. I couldn't think of
anybody who knew a lot about Hellboy. Do you know

a lot about Hellboy?

LIAM: I know a lot about Hellboy.

TALIESIN: Do you want to come on Wednesday Club?

LIAM: Yes, please! Oh! I bought a Hellboy comic
today! Another black compendium book to go with

my other big black blades on my shelf.

MATT: Liam likes things that are big and black.

LAURA: I'm glad your mind went there, too.

TALIESIN: It's going to be Wednesday Club on
Hellboy.

MATT: Then you have something on Friday, as well?

TALIESIN: I do! I've decided it would be really
funny to be here really late three days in a row

for the rest of my life, and so I'm-- I don't want
to quite say "taking over." Is "taking over" the word?

MARISHA: That's fair.

TALIESIN: I'm taking over Gather Your Party on
Friday nights now, and we're giving it a bit of a

revamp. It's going to be a bit of a different
vibe. It's going to be a little shorter. It's

going to be fun. Our very first episode is going
to be called Gather Your Goth, and we're going to

be giving some of our friends goth makeovers and
having a goth dance contest.

LAURA: Can I get made over? When are you doing
it?

TALIESIN: Tomorrow night.

LAURA: Shit, I'm not going to be here! Fuck, I
really want to be made over!

TALIESIN: Well I'll tell you what. You let me
know, and you can come over and have a goth

makeover.

MATT: Next time you do it, you do whatever it's
called, and then in parentheses Laura Your Goth,

or Goth Your Laura.

TALIESIN: Gather Your Laura. You would goth out
very well. I think I would be excited by that.

MATT: All right. To finish this up, let's see. I
forgot to mention it last week, but those of you

guys who have been playing the Telltale Batman
game, the new Pact episode came out recently with

Harley Quinn and Bane, and I play Mr. Freeze! It's
been a lot of fun, and I've been continuously

recording on it. Hope you guys enjoy more fun to
come with that delightful character.

LIAM: You do have a cold heart.

MATT: It's true. Then you guys had a Sagas of
Sundry announcement?

MARISHA: Oh yeah! Sagas of Sundry announcement!
Cast list went out! Who's in it? We are!

LIAM: I didn't see you there at all!

MARISHA: Look again! Abigail Persimmon.

TALIESIN: The magic of the goth makeover strikes
again! (cackles)

MARISHA: I'm not coming tomorrow because I've
already had mine.

TALIESIN: No, I bought this shirt when we went
shopping.

MARISHA: That's right! You did! We went on a
shopping trip, and we had so much fun.

LIAM: It was fucking wild.

MARISHA: Anyone who hasn't seen any of the first
season--

MATT: Thanks for keeping tally.

TRAVIS: He picked his cup up without drinking it
again! Picks it up. (thunk)

LIAM: Like an animatronic sailor!

MATT: Like a raccoon that can't find a river, I go
through the motions of washing my food. All right.

Couple of other things. It is still Sub-tober,
because why not? That means if you haven't had the

opportunity to subscribe to any of the Twitch
streams that you're a fan of, you can do so half

off until the 18th. So you can do that up until
the 18th and then get the comic the same day, I guess.

And since this is the final episode of the
campaign, I wanted to give a shout out to all our

fantastic crew. Wonderful people who have worked
their ass off to stay here late every Thursday. We

have Maxwell James, Dani Carr, Jason Corey, Ryan
Green, Selina Ruth, Chris Wilmont, Zach Wilson,

Sax Carr, Mark Donica, Anthony Videsco, Courtney
Kraft, Ian Kagihara, Chris Lockey, Holly Pearson,

Ryan Porter, Denise, J. Andrew Bernard, Ed Lopez,
Rachel Romero, all of our fantastic mods who have

done an incredible job maintaining the chaos that
is Twitch, you guys are fantastic. We really

appreciate all the hard work you guys put into it,
and many, many more. The entire community, we

can't even begin to express--

LAURA: Did you say Fernando?

MATT: Yes, I did. Wait, Fernando. Someone didn't
put Fernando on the list!

SAM: And many more whose names were omitted.

MATT: Correct, thank you guys so much for all your
hard work!

LIAM: Wait, let's come up with some more
announcements so we never have to start.

MATT: Nope, I think we've stretched the audience's
patience enough. Let's go ahead and dive in to

tonight's episode of Critical Role.

[dramatic music]

LIAM: Autoerotic a-pixie-ation.

MATT: You were real late on the draw, but this is
the night to do it. I guess.

LIAM: Right on time.

MATT: It was perfect. Precisely when you mean to.
All right. Last we left off, Vox Machina, through

their trials and tribulations, had eventually come
to realize the machinations of Vecna, who ascended

into godhood, transported his city from the
Shadowfell of Thar Amphala to the top, right above

a long-dead earth primordial titan, rising it and
making its way toward Vasselheim, the Dawn City,

the beginning of creation.

You battled your way through its innards, up
within the arcane dome that protected it, managed

to defeat one half of the long-frustrating
Briarwood coupling, fought your way to the top of

the tower Entropis, did battle with Vecna, the
Ascended. Through careful planning and sacrifices,

you managed to apply the trammels, complete the
sealing ritual, and send Vecna screaming across

the Divine Gate, to be sealed to wherever his
divine demi-plane resides on the other side.

As you all fell down upon the ruined, floating
platforms of the tower Entropis, you glanced over

as your recent ally, Arkhan the Cruel, proceeded
to sever his own hand, attach the Hand of Vecna,

and catching you off guard, transport himself
beyond your current reach. This beat of intensity

releasing slowly, the adrenaline still wearing its
way through your veins, you sit in silence,

looking about, amazed that you all still stand
after such a confrontation.

It's at that moment you hear this distant
explosion. Glancing off the side of the platform

you're on, you can still see, while the large
titan, one of four arms raised, attempting to come

and destroy all of you with one large blow, frozen
in place, there still remains the dregs of Vecna's

army down below throughout the city of Vasselheim,
where battles are still raging in the streets. You

can still see wyvern-riders and eagle-riders in
the sky, though it appears that the gloomstalkers

that once paraded across the skies over the city
have been destroyed or scattered at the loss of

the ascended god that summoned them. You also
still are aware of the body of your sister,

residing on the platforms below. It's at this
point that you notice that the green tendrils of

energy that hold the Tower of Entropis together
begin to flicker and subside. The platforms that

were slowly drifting, listing, suddenly begin to
shift.

LAURA: No! I take off on my broom, and I go down
to try to get her.

MATT: Okay. You guys dart over the side. What are
the rest of you guys doing?

TRAVIS: I had the immovable rod pulled out, and I
click it where I am.

MATT: All right. You hold in place. You feel the
platform give beneath you. Your toes are now

dangling in the middle of the air as you watch the
cracked-open right side of Entropis' peak begin to

topple and fall beneath you. What are you guys
doing?

MARISHA: I'm still a planetar. Do you still have
Bigby's Hand up?

SAM: For maybe 30 seconds more.

TALIESIN: Where's the carpet?

TRAVIS: It's in my bag.

MARISHA: I do a potato sack hold on Scanlan. Make
sure he's all right.

MATT: You grab him. Pike still has some time. She
still has her wings.

TRAVIS: I can throw it to you.

TALIESIN: That would be nice. Yes, please.

TRAVIS: Can I pull the carpet out of the bag of
holding? Do you want to free fall and go after it?

MATT: By the way, the platform is now giving
underneath you.

SAM: Why don't you fly it over?

TRAVIS: I don't think I can be on it with him.
Right? I'm still enlarged.

MARISHA: Here, can one of us fly over and get it?

LAURA: Technically, he was on the broom with me,
so I could've dropped him off with one of you

before I flew down to Velora.

MATT: As you're having this conversation about the
carpet, you're dragged down over the side as the

broom rockets off, Vex's mind currently focused
more on other things. So the last thing you hear

from Percival is, "Could you throw--" as he darts
off to the side. The platform is beginning to give

as the flickering green energy begins to fade. You
guys both dart beneath where you can see upon the

rubble, where the top staircase had broken apart
from the original sundering of the top of the

tower. There you see, still lying there, lifeless,
the body of Velora. You rush in there just as the

platform's collapsing. I need you both to make
acrobatics checks on this to see how quickly you

can maneuver in and out.

LAURA: Okay, it's 30.

LIAM: 31.

MATT: Both of you guys rush inward. As some of the
various chunks are beginning to fall and separate

from underneath the platforms, you begin to dart
through, dodge, and you grab and lift her body.

Both of you cradling her, and at a moment's notice,
deciding which one of you's going to take her.

LIAM: I've got her.

MATT: All right. Vax, you go ahead and dart off.
You careen back out of the way as the central,

large platform crashes down with a heavy impact.
You can see it crumble, then break, and three

separate pieces beginning to tumble. The tower
then gives in from underneath and begins to

collapse downward, almost like a controlled
demolition. As it begins to fall and topple down

below, you all gather your thoughts and consider
other allies that were recently--

TRAVIS: Falling?

MATT: A short time ago, yes.

LAURA: Zahra and Kash?

MARISHA: With Scanlan in hand, start diving down
to go see if I can find them or have any sight of

them at all.

MATT: What's the flying speed of your planetar?

MARISHA: 150 feet.

MATT: Okay. As you, holding Scanlan under your arm,
coast down at a speed to the point where now

you're actually racing the crumbling of the tower.
You're watching the actual cracks as they emerge,

as the energy's dissipating, beginning to subside,
as your speed overtakes the rate in which it's

collapsing.

MARISHA: Like Superman and Lois Lane.

MATT: (laughter). The G's are intense, Scanlan.
Your eyes are watering, blown back on your face.

The Ioun symbol on your forehead is flaring like a
spotlight ahead of you. As you rocket down, you

glance, you can see there across the rocks at the
bottom, two wyverns that are scattered across the

rubble, and you see, lying there, the bodies of
Kashaw and Zahra.

SAM: They're dead. Turn around. Let's go back.
They're dead.

MARISHA: Shut up, Scanlan! Are they dead?

MATT: Make a perception check.

TRAVIS: How high am I hanging off of this thing?

MATT: Make--

TRAVIS: A perception check? I am a million--
eight.

MATT: You're high up there. That's a long way up.

MARISHA: 18.

LAURA: You can use the carpet because Percy's on
the broom with me.

MATT: Their bodies are brutalized from the impact.
They hit.

MARISHA: They're splatted.

MATT: Well, they're not splatted.

LAURA: They're not you on the cliff.

MARISHA: Sure. They didn't goldfish it.

TRAVIS: But a good Revivify might help.

SAM: They're unconscious?

MATT: You're just now approaching. As you get
there, you can hear the rumbling of the tower

getting louder. You've barely beaten it. What are
you doing?

MARISHA: I've got to move them, right? Is that
what you're saying? Scanlan? You're fine, right?

Handle yourself?

MATT: Scanlan, she sets you on the ground as you
look over and see the tower (crashing).

MARISHA: Do you want to hold onto my back?

SAM: I have no spells left, so yes.

(laughter)

SAM: I will climb on.

TALIESIN: I imagine Scanlan dropping that last
potion as it's coming down.

MATT: Okay. As you dive on, you grab both of their
limp bodies and pull them under your arms and dart.

I need you to make a dexterity saving throw,
please.

LAURA: Oh my god, if we thought we made it out of
this--

MARISHA: Okay, 18. No, wait! Yeah, 18.

MATT: 18. You manage to scoot by as one of the
large chunks of the base falls over to one side,

and as you dart out, wings before you, Scanlan
clutched on your back, both their bodies beneath,

you can feel the gust of wind from behind as the
collapsing wall is pushing all the air in your

direction. As you focus down, your wings out, you
manage to careen underneath as the shadow that was

beginning to fall over you pulls behind, and
behind you hear the (boom), the dust pick up, and

you guys all look down and watch as the tower
finally falls to its final piece of rubble there

on the ground. At which point you glance down, and
you can see both of them, their eyes roll open,

lolling in their face, both Zahra and Kashaw,
seemingly conscious. If you guys want to step in?

(cheering)

MARISHA: I'm going to immediately burn two of my
healing touches, and you get 6d8 plus three hit

points back.

MATT: Kashaw and Zahra, you've been lying there on
the ground for a moment going, "Ow," and as your

vision focuses, you watch as the tower begins to
collapse downward in your direction. The shadow

seems to close over you.

WILL: Well, that's not good.

MARISHA: 29 hit points to both of you
immediately.

MATT: And with a flash, something white-feathered
and blue shoots past you, grabs you, and you are

thrust into the air, carried by the angelic form
of Keyleth.

MARY: Kiki? How are you, darling?

MARISHA: Did you recognize me because of the
antlers? That's why I keep them. They're very

identifying.

MARY: I think I dreamed of you.

MARISHA: No, that was real and incredible, and you
all showed up.

SAM: Why did you come?

WILL: We had to come. She made us.

(laughter)

MARY: I had a vision.

WILL: It's good to see you. Thank you for that.

SAM: You had a vision?

MARY: I did. I had a vision of white wings, and
blue--

WILL: Are you okay?

MARY: I think we're all right.

WILL: Both of you?

MARY: Yeah.

WILL: Don't piss off a pregnant tiefling.

MARISHA: Yeah-- wait, what?

WILL: Thank gods for that.

SAM: Haven't you heard of pulling out?

(laughter)

SAM: I do it all the time!

WILL: I tried. Didn't work.

MARY: I wouldn't let him.

WILL: The tail held me in place.

MARY: You always said you liked that.

WILL: Can you put us down somewhere, maybe?

MARY: That would be lovely, thank you.

MARISHA: I drop Kash, but very lightly set down
Zahra.

MATT: You tumble.

MARISHA: Congratulations!

MARY: Did we win?

MATT: No, you're healed up; you're fine. The Death
Ward brought you guys to one hit point, and then

she healed you before she dropped you, so you're
fine.

WILL: No, I deserved that. Thank you. So did we
win? What happened?

SAM: We're sitting on the titan now?

MATT: You're down in the street level of Thar
Amphala.

SAM: But still on the Titan?

MATT: Still on the top of the Titan.

SAM: Is he falling?

MATT: Make a perception check.

SAM: Two.

MATT: You have no idea.

SAM: Pregnant?! What? I thought you were gay!

WILL: We've talked about this. It's all right.

TRAVIS: Can I take out the carpet and start making
my enlarged form way down to them? By myself?

LAURA: Well, Pike's with you.

TRAVIS: Oh. Is she?

LAURA: Yeah, Pike's still with you up there.

TRAVIS: She's got wings.

MATT: With a strength of 19, and your enlarged
size--

TRAVIS: Can I dispel the enlarged?

MATT: No.

TRAVIS: Oh, it's in for ten minutes. I'm just me.

(laughter)

MATT: You get the sense, at this size, that carpet
cannot carry you.

TRAVIS: I'm just hanging out. I grab the earring
and I say: Will someone please do me a favor? Will

you look for Arkhan's hand? Find me that hand.

SAM: Is it falling?

MATT: It was on one of the platforms.

MARISHA: Wait, you want to find his hand on the
giant tower full of rubble?

WILL: Whose hand?

TRAVIS: Arkhan's.

LIAM: Vex or I can find it.

LAURA: In a moment.

MATT: At this point, you have both come down now
to the base of the tower. At that speed, it took

you a while to catch up to the rest of everybody
else.

MARISHA: I look up and say: Grog, do you need a
hand? Are you all right? Damn it, the pun wasn't

intended, Scanlan!

(laughter)

TRAVIS: I literally just said that.

MARISHA: Do you need assistance getting down from
hanging from a bar? In the middle of the air, to

be very literal.

TRAVIS: Yeah, it would be nice.

MARISHA: I fly up.

MATT: So your angelic wing maneuver.

MARY: I can cast Fly on him.

SAM: Yeah, do that! Zahra has Fly, she can cast
Fly on him!

MARY: I cast Fly on Grog.

MATT: Okay. You'll have to get up a little closer
to do it, because you're out of range.

MARY: Can I use my Cloak of the Bat to fly up and
then cast?

MATT: Yeah.

MARY: I fly up and I cast. Hello, darling!

MATT: You watch as Zahra, suddenly her cloak
extends into two large, leathery bat wings and she

flies her way up pretty close to where you are.
For a second there, you glance down. Roll a

perception check.

TRAVIS: Ten.

MATT: You see a gloomstalker coming right at you.

TRAVIS: (screams)

MATT: As you hold the sword out in front, you
notice in a second, it's Zahra.

TRAVIS: Oh. Not a gloomstalker.

MATT: But the sword, at this point, as you hold it
out in front of you and push back, it goes, "One

"part is done. Well played. But he still survives.
We'll take him. And we'll take that dragon. The

"hand must be destroyed. It's still out there.
Together--"

TRAVIS: Okay, yeah, I sheathe him.

(laughter)

TRAVIS: I need some Visine bad.

MARY: Grog! Hello, darling.

TRAVIS: Hey, Zahra.

MARY: Did you ever use that moonhammer I gave
you?

TRAVIS: All the time. Covered in blood.

MARY: Right. In the moonlight, right?

TRAVIS: Yep. Need to get it cleaned.

MARY: Good. Well, I look forward to hearing your
tales. Do you need some help, my darling?

TRAVIS: I do, unless you just want to hang out
with me up here for a bit.

MARY: Well, I could. How is your arm? You know
what, no, let's just do it. I cast Fly. Let go.

MATT: And you can fly. You're gliding in the air.

(laughter)

MATT: He starts slowly--

TALIESIN, LAURA, and MARISHA: Don't leave the
rod!

TRAVIS: How do I do this?

MARY: It's all right. Just focus. Focus. You'll be
fine, Grog. Just focus. Yes, think of yourself as

a cow. As a flying cow. You remember?

TRAVIS: Moo.

LAURA: Grab the rod.

TRAVIS: Oh, right. (click) Put it back in the bag
of holding. This is great! Oh my god, I would do

this every day.

MARY: Well, you could do it for at least an hour,
so that's good.

TRAVIS: Can I drunkenly fly down to everybody
else?

MATT: And you do, it's a slow spiral, and you
begin to gimbal backward, and she has to right you

a couple times.

TRAVIS: Can I fly right as I get closer, just for
dramatic effect?

MARY: Focus on me. No squirrel. There's no
squirrels. Focus your mind. No. It's all right,

just come down. (singing)

TRAVIS: I come down!

MARY: All right, you could do that, too. Look out
below!

TRAVIS: Three-point landing. Super hard.

MATT: Make an acrobatics check.

TRAVIS: Super hard.

WILL: Superhero landing.

TRAVIS: (high voice) Not great.

TALIESIN: Yay!

LAURA: Not bad.

TRAVIS: Oh, not bad, yeah. Yeah. 14.

MATT: 14. Okay. You were rage-hanging? You take 24
points of bludgeoning damage, reduced to 12.

LAURA: And Grog is dead.

MATT: And three-point landing. You watch as a
crater is left beneath where his impact is. The

smoke slowly subsides, and Grog's there, fist in
the ground, Thor: Ragnarok style.

LAURA: And we're all on the ground now?

MATT: You are all now on the ground floor of Thar
Amphala. As you glance around--

LIAM: I'm flexing the wings out and around, and
I'm making a feather bed with the ends of the

wings on the ground and laying Velora down on it.

LAURA: Kash, tell me you have Revivify. Tell me
you can bring her back.

WILL: I believe I do.

LIAM: I start combing her hair with my fingers,
out of her eyes.

WILL: Let me check. I do. Who am I casting it on?

LAURA: Our sister.

WILL: Oh. Oh, that doesn't look good. Yeah, okay.
Let's see what we can do. I'm sorry, I'm still a

little sore.

LAURA: No. It's terrible. Please help her.

WILL: It was a terrible fall. Give me one second.

MARY: I'm so sorry.

WILL: Oh. Her? This one? Yeah, all right. Let's do
that. I'm going to cast Revivify.

MATT: Okay. Unfortunately, she's been dead longer
than a minute, so the spell does not take effect.

You don't know how long it's been, or if perhaps
your final moments of fucking with her was just

enough to push it over the edge--

(laughter)

WILL: It keeps happening! Sorry.

SAM: 61 seconds.

WILL: I can speak to dead, if you'd like to talk
with her.

LAURA: No! I don't want to fucking talk to her, I
want to have her back!

(laughter)

WILL: It's time for one message. Does she owe you
money? I can have her find out where it is.

LIAM: Do you have anything a little more potent
right now?

MARISHA: I can raise dead.

WILL: Well, there we go. See?

LAURA: Is she going to come back as a zombie?

MARISHA: No.

LAURA: She'll be a normal--

TALIESIN: Just raised.

MARISHA: I might need some help. Where's Pike?

WILL: I can raise the dead, too, if you need
help.

MATT: Pike has been slowly flying down.

MARISHA: She doesn't come back as a zombie, right?
It's raising dead.

MATT: Is it the actual Raise Dead spell?

WILL: Mine is.

MARISHA: It says three times a day.

MATT: Raise Dead. You can bring someone back to
life, yeah. It takes an hour to cast.

MARISHA: Yep.

TRAVIS: Do they murder someone when you do that,
like a horror movie?

MARISHA: If I did it with Kash, would that--

WILL: I'm with Zahra now, so let's try to keep
that in mind.

TALIESIN: Wow, two for two tonight.

MARISHA: I don't know how to respond to that.

LIAM: Your sense of humor is your best quality.

WILL: Isn't it?

LIAM: Best.

WILL: We'll get her. She'll be fine!

MATT: As you guys take a moment and realize the
time, the involvement that would be here to do the

spell, you glance about in the streets of Thar
Amphala, and what straggling undead and/or

cultists seem to have been either trying to
scramble back up to the city or hadn't made their

way down through or were here as sentinels are
frantically trying to escape and being cut down

and grabbed by the various eagle riders and the
rest of the army that's currently now beginning to

swarm in, thanks to the complete falling of the
barrier with the sealing of Vecna. You do feel at

this moment that you do have some time in Thar
Amphala without any immediate danger.

WILL: But if it gets to that, I can stay and raise
her, and you guys can go and take care of the city.

LAURA: Thank you.

MARISHA: I don't even know if I have a full hour
left on my form. That's the only problem. That's

why I would need help, but--

WILL: She needs to rest, anyway.

MARY: I can stay. I'll stay with him.

LAURA: Thank you.

MARY: We'll focus on her.

SAM: We'll all stay, until we don't have to.

LAURA: Yeah.

MARISHA: I help Kash as much as I can.

MATT: Okay.

LAURA: I sit down and hold her hand.

MATT: All right.

LIAM: Start cleaning her cheeks as well as we
can.

MARISHA: And I don't take my eyes off of Vax the
whole time.

SAM: Oh, yeah. Shit.

WILL: I'm holding my medal. Starting the spell.

MATT: As you guys form a perimeter here at the
base of Entropis, the sky now open, the clouds

dispelled and scattered, and probably for the
first time in weeks, especially from your guys'

perspective, Vasselheim sees a sky of blue. The
sunlight rains down from above, and the warmth

that comes through is very comforting as you begin
to clear the space and scrawl out the sigils and

glyphs necessary for this Raise Dead ritual. As
you're going through the process and you quietly

begin to focus, you can see some of the eagle
riders and straggling wyvern riders take notice

and begin to come close, and then stop and keep a
distance, and recognizing the significance of this

moment, respectfully stay away.

WILL: As he's casting the glyphs, he goes over,
he's about to write the last one, and he walks

over to Vex, and he takes one tear, and he goes
back over and uses it to do the last glyph.

MATT: As he draws the last glyph with the tear,
that one seems to have an additional flair, a

connection, a sparkle of bloodline connectivity
between you and the deceased. As you complete the

spell, I need you to go ahead and bring to this
ritual what you'd like.

SAM: Oh god.

LAURA: Jesus, really? Oh, god. I take one of my
arrows that has the owlbear feather on it, and I

put it down next to her because I know she loved
owlbears.

MATT: Okay. Go ahead and roll a d20 for me. Okay.
Anybody else?

LIAM: I pull Simon from around my waist, and I
start to fasten it around her. This is yours.

You're going to have to take care of him now. His
name is Simon. Most people don't think he's alive,

but they're wrong. He's very much alive. Take care
of him for me. I didn't get nearly enough time

with you. I'm sorry. I love you very much. I kiss
her on the forehead.

MATT: Roll another d20.

LIAM: I rolled an 18, but I'm going to use Luck.
Good. 18 is good.

MATT: Okay.

MARY: I take the moonstone from my staff, and I
clasp it in my hands, and I say: Sirius, you asked

me to be here and to judge them. They are worthy.
Give me this boon. Help me save this girl, for

true friendship, which I never had until now. Help
me save her. Help us all save her. And I place the

moonstone down next to her head.

MATT: Okay. Go ahead and roll a d20 for me.

MARY: I'll use Luck.

MATT: If you want to.

MARY: 12.

MATT: Okay. As you complete the ritual, all the
sigils in place lighting up, it's unique because

you're used to the ritual completed by an acolyte
of Sarenrae, in which everything has a glow of

warmth to it. This ritual was completed by an
acolyte of an entity named Vesh, and as each sigil

flares, you watch as they darken into the deepest
shadow. It's a yin-yang dichotomy as the spell

begins to take effect, until eventually the whole
circle becomes pitch black, like the deepest of

lightless midnight. At that moment, you watch as
Velora's form itself is also cast into shadow and

disappears from view. And for a moment, you fear
she is gone, before the shadow begins to peel away

like a cocoon, and as it tears and rolls back, the
subtle sound of sand shifting and paper crackling,

you watch as her chest begins to move once more,
breathing, her eyes still closed, but life

breathes into her lungs once more. With a natural
19.

LAURA: I hug her. Oh, and I pop Trinket out of his
necklace, and I cast Cure Wounds on him so he can

lick her face.

MATT: Okay. As Trinket comes out, Trinket is
burned and battered, armor dinged up and screwed

up, on his face it's askew to one side--

TRAVIS: He got meteored.

(laughter)

MATT: Yeah, he did.

TRAVIS: I didn't sign up for this shit.

LAURA: I've still got a 3rd-level Cure Wounds on
him.

MATT: All right.

MARY: I cast Beast Speak. You all right, Trinket?

MATT: "I don't care." And Trinket comes forward to
Velora and begins licking her face, and she who is

breathing but unconscious, the eye begins to
slowly open. "What?" And her eyes open up a little

bit, and you can see her skin darkened from the
blast and the rubble and the dust that's now begun

to settle around the base of Entropis, and she
looks up and first sees the lapping tongue of

Trinket against her cheek, and giggles and pushes
him away a little bit. Then she sees the feather

and looks at it and now looks up to see the person
that's holding her and looks and meets both of

your gazes--

LAURA: Hi, little monkey.

MATT: "Hi."

LIAM: You're an awfully long way from home.

MATT: "What happened?"

LAURA: You went on an adventure, that's all.

MATT: She gets quiet for a second, trying to
remember, trying to recall. "I'm very tired."

LAURA: Of course.

MATT: And she curls up and pulls tighter around
Vex's neck.

WILL: Kash steps in. You don't feel evil, do you?

(laughter)

MATT: She pulls back and looks over at you. "Who's
this human?"

LAURA: Oh, he saved your life just now, dear.

LIAM: He's a friend. Come here.

WILL: All right.

LAURA: No, but seriously, could she be evil?
Seriously.

WILL: No, there's-- no. You feel okay?

MATT: She arranges the situation and looks back at
you and goes, (giggles).

WILL: She's fine. I'd watch her.

LAURA: Yeah. She's fine.

(laughter)

MATT: She pulls back into you and whispers in your
ear and says, "He's pretty stupid, isn't he?"

LAURA: He's really stupid.

MATT: She giggles and then sighs into you.

LAURA: Okay, yeah. Just rest. I'm going to sit her
on top of Trinket so she can take a little

nappy-nap.

MATT: Okay. And she passes right out. She is
spent. She is exhausted.

WILL: The city is still burning.

MARY: Yes, it is. We have work to do.

WILL: We've got a lot of people down there we
know.

MARY: I know. The Slayer's Take is in desperate
need. We should check on the sphinx.

TRAVIS: The sphinx, right.

LAURA: We can't thank you enough. Again.

WILL: You guys always do throw the best parties,
that's for sure.

MARY: Yes, you do.

LAURA: I'm so glad you're all right.

WILL: Yeah, I'm glad we could help. That's why
we're going to name our child Vax.

I'm totally kidding; that's never going to happen.

(laughter)

MARY: Take the moonstone. Keep it with you. If you
need me-- well, I won't come, because I'll be

away, but--

LAURA: Yeah, you'll be a little busy with the
child and all.

MARY: A little busy, yes. But come and visit if
you get a chance. Who knows? Twins runs in my

family, so you never know.

LAURA: Really?

MARY: Yes. Lillith told me. I need to see Lillith
again.

LIAM: Oh, the joke's on you.

LAURA: I give her a big hug.

MARY: I love you, darling.

LAURA: I love you so much. Congratulations.

MARY: Thank you, dearest. Scanlan.

SAM: Yes?

MARY: You little bastard.

SAM: Yes? That is my full name, yes.

(laughter)

MARY: I plant a giant, fiery kiss on him, and my
tail wraps around his head.

SAM: I try to get away, but--

MARY: The tail.

(laughter)

WILL: I told you.

SAM: You're right! Kinky. Ooh! What? I mean, thank
you?

MARY: I miss doing your hair.

SAM: Well, I miss doing, well--

MARY: We'll see each other, again, I hope. Grog.

TRAVIS: Yeah?

MARY: Use that moonhammer.

TRAVIS: I will-- I mean, again.

LAURA: At night. In the night.

MARY: Use it in the moon--

TRAVIS: Yeah. Under the moon.

LAURA: Yeah, obviously.

TRAVIS: It's called a moonhammer. Yeah.

MARY: Use it in the moonlight. I think you'll be
surprised.

TRAVIS: In the nude.

TALIESIN and MARY: Without pants.

TRAVIS: Right. Yeah. Moon for moon, as above, so
below--

MARY: Yes.

TRAVIS: And that will unleash--

MARY: Take your pants off, here we go.

LIAM: Double damage on cows. Yeah.

TRAVIS: I'm going to fuck some cows up.

MARY: Yeah, you do.

WILL: Oh, Grog. I love standing next to you in
battle and hate standing next to you at the

urinal.

(laughter)

WILL: That's just the way it is, my friend. Been a
pleasure.

MARY: Percy.

TALIESIN: Yes?

MARY: Take care of our girl.

TALIESIN: I'll try.

MARY: Take care of her.

TALIESIN: My regards to your family.

MARY: Thank you, love. We'll be in Whitestone
again soon. I'll see you soon, dearest.

SAM: Don't see us too soon. I mean, whenever
you're near us, you both almost die. So maybe just--

LAURA: Give it some time.

WILL: But we--

WILL and MARY: Almost.

MARY: That's the key word is almost, you see.
Yes. You saved our lives. We can never repay you.

TRAVIS: I believe you saved ours first by showing
up.

MARISHA: We saved each other. That's kind of what
Vox Machina's all about.

LIAM: This is the second time around you.

MARY: That's what we do for each other.
I love you, Vax.

LIAM: I love you, too, Mary.

MARY: Oh, baby, don't do that.

MATT: At this point, you begin to hear distant
horns echoing throughout the city streets.

Distant, emanating throughout. As you glance over,
you haven't heard these horns before. But they

sound less like horns of warning and more like
horns of victory. Glancing down in the streets,

there are still flames and columns of smoke and you
can still see scuffles beneath. The siege weaponry

attacks against the titan have subsided and it has
not moved at all. It is locked in place, a large

statuesque-like mountain of an ancient entity now
lording over the edge of the Braving Grounds,

almost creeping upon the outskirts of the Quad
Roads towards the center of the city, leaving a

path of destruction in its wake. Most of the
Braving Grounds is in tatters but--

LAURA: I look at Percy. This would be a wonderful
place for a summer home.

(chuckles)

WILL and MARY: We've got to go.

SAM: What? No.

MARY: We have to leave.

WILL: They need us back.

MARY: Yeah.

LIAM: Don't be strangers, though.

MARY: We won't.

LIAM: Look in.

LAURA: Thank you, guys.

MARY: We will.

LIAM: Look in if you can.

MARY: We love you all so much.

TRAVIS: Thank you.

TALIESIN: Thank you, as well.

WILL: So this is what it's like to have a family,
huh?

MARY: Yeah.

WILL: I can get used to that.

MARISHA: Sounds like you're going to have an
actual family soon.

SAM: Well I shit more than your kid will, but
other than that, it's like this but with less shit.

WILL: Then we'll be happy.

MARY: Always.

WILL: Call us if you need us. Anytime.

LAURA: Same.

MARY: We'll be here.

LAURA: All right.

MARY: Thank you.

WILL: Luck in battle.

SAM: Thank you.

LAURA: Bye loves.

LIAM: See you later, smart ass.

MARY: Thank you.

WILL: Bastard. Treat her well or I'm going to come
back.

LAURA: Hey, you've got your hands full, all
right?

WILL: That's true, too.

MATT: And as she completes a secondary Fly spell,
these two coast off over the edge of Thar Amphala,

down into the center of Vasselheim on their own.
At which point, you notice three battle-disheveled

wyvern riders that were waiting at the side begin
to approach. One of them you recognize as a

captain signified by these ivory horns that curl
out of the back of the helmet and grow longer than

the regular wyvern riders' armor you've
encountered. Having stepped off the armored drake

that currently waits, shaking its head, large
leathery wings dug into the nearby rubble, the

warrior approaches, pulling the helmet off,
revealing a tumble of braided amber hair with

shaved sides and a rather stern-looking woman that
you don't recognise. "Vox Machina! I am Captain

"Obelin. I would ask, does this shift in tide
signify anything? Does the lich still loom about?"

LAURA: He fucking dead.

TALIESIN: Does not. The battle is won.

LAURA: He's been sealed away.

MATT: "It is done?"

TRAVIS: It is.

TALIESIN: "Fucking dead."

(laughter)

TRAVIS: Lady Vex'ahlia.

TALIESIN: Lady, yes.

MATT: "The gods grant their grace upon Vasselheim
still. We thank you. Well, there's little time to

"celebrate. There's still much to be done, but
please bring this information to the Platinum

"Sanctuary, to somewhere of significance in the
city. This information needs to go out. this will

"greatly bolster the ranks, morale of those--"

MARISHA: Start spreading the word yourself. You
can help us out, right?

MATT: "Oh, we shall." She looks over her shoulder
at the other soldiers.

TALIESIN: I've got the last flare from Whitestone
from all those years ago.

LAURA: I have a purple flare too. We should all
set them off.

MARISHA: I was going to say: I think I still have
a Skywrite.

SAM: Let's do it.

MARISHA: Yep.

LAURA: I send up my purple flare, too.

SAM: I pull out my gun.

(laughter)

TRAVIS: Yes!

MARISHA: Oh my god!

TRAVIS: I forgot you have one.

LIAM: What a callback.

TALIESIN: I've been waiting for it.

TRAVIS: Please misfire. Please blow your hand
off.

SAM: Let's do this. (yells)

(laughter)

MATT: Okay. Roll a d20.

TRAVIS: Please.

TALIESIN: No!

SAM: Natural 20.

TALIESIN: No!

SAM: (machine gun noises)

LIAM: Say hello to my even littler friend!

TRAVIS: Oh my god.

MATT: So as you guys send up your colored
Whitestone crest flares into the sky, what do you

Skywrite?

MARISHA: Vecna defeated.

LAURA: That's a lot of writing.

TALIESIN: That's a lot of words.

MATT: The wisps of cloud begin to spell across--

SAM: V def.

MARISHA: (laughs) I can write it out.

TALIESIN: You can.

MATT: Yeah. As it coasts across, you hear this
loud echoing (gunshot) as the N in the middle of

Vecna seems to dissipate with a little puff as a
perfectly aimed bullet from one pistol that does

not backfire, because that would have been fucking
funny.

TALIESIN: It's all I wanted tonight.

TRAVIS: So good.

MATT: Roll a performance check.

SAM: Performance? Come on. 28.

MATT: 28. For a man who has only shot a pistol
once, he Revolver Ocelots that shit.

LAURA: He's been practicing that shit in his
bedroom.

MARISHA: Yeah. In the mirror.

TRAVIS: Behind the back. Oh shit.

(laughter)

SAM: I've been watching you.

TRAVIS: Percy's like, "I don't do that shit."

(laughter)

TALIESIN: Yeah, no.

MATT: These flares bursting and slowly descending,
coming down and bringing this-- it was a purple

flare and what was the color of yours?

TALIESIN: Gold, if I recall.

MATT: So gold and purple begin to burn down below,
giving this strange atmospheric light to the

outside of the large, still titan form as the
words across the sky, you begin to hear this low

gathering of cheers. Thousands upon thousands upon
thousands of voices where you once heard screaming

and yelling now join in unison. A rallying cry of
victory that crawls across the entirety of

Vasselheim around you on all sides. What do you
guys want to do?

TRAVIS: I need that hand.

SAM: Do we have Locate Object or something?

LIAM: I do.

LAURA: I mean, yeah.

SAM: Is it an object? I guess it's inanimate now.

MATT: It is considered an object now.

LIAM: I do.

LAURA: That's good.

LIAM: I got it. I've seen it. I have the spell
slot.

MATT: All right. So you cast Locate Object and you
have a very strong vision of the direction and

it's maybe a hundred feet to your left, and it is
under quite a bit of rubble.

LIAM: Big man, come on. I'm going to need you to
dig; it's over here.

TRAVIS: Not a problem.

MATT: All right.

SAM: Rage dig.

MATT: Giving him direction. Rage-digging through,
tossing veritable small boulders with one-handed

scoops. You guys are having to dodge out of the
way as they go flying by and skidding to a halt

maybe 50, 60 feet behind him. Go ahead and make an
investigation check with advantage, because of his aid.

TRAVIS: That's about as good as it gets, because
that's even worse. 16.

MATT: 16. Okay.

TRAVIS: With a minus two.

MATT: It takes you a little while, but thanks to
Locate Object, you cruise through and you

eventually find-- It's been smashed, but it's still
intact and there you see the completely cut off,

red-scaled, clawed hand of Arkhan the Cruel.

TRAVIS: He fucked us.

MARISHA, SAM, and LIAM: Yeah.

LAURA: He helped us. And then he fucked us. Yeah.

MARISHA: I guess the help was worth the fucking,
but only a little bit.

TRAVIS: Yeah.

MATT: The voice creeps into your head. "Take it.
Find him. He has to die."

TRAVIS: Feel like I should take this and try and
find him. He's got to fucking die.

LAURA: Yeah, he probably does.

TRAVIS: He was so cool and strong and only his
physique rivals my own, but I feel like he's got

to die.

LIAM: Please. He couldn't touch you, are you
kidding?

MARISHA: You know, you're not having--

TRAVIS: Couldn't.

LAURA: You seem to like him a lot. Are you sure
you want to kill him and not just try to get--

MARISHA: Grog.

TRAVIS: What? Hold on.

MARISHA: We all think you're strong. You don't
need to have an inferiority complex.

TRAVIS: A what?

LAURA: Yeah, I don't think he's going to
understand.

LIAM: I don't think he has those.

TRAVIS: So he's a paladin of--

SAM: Tiamat.

TRAVIS: Right. Is that a good or a bad?

SAM: Bad, I'm guessing?

MATT: Make a religion check with advantage because
you still have-- well, the blessing would have

worn off.

LIAM: That thing could rot. Do you know what
preserves a hand?

LAURA: The bag of colding.

SAM: More than 20.

MATT: Yeah, Tiamat's very bad. Known as the Scaled
Tyrant, she resides in the Nine Hells and is the

patron deity of all chromatic dragons.

SAM: Oh, yeah. She's the dragon god. She?

MATT: She. The opposite of Bahamut.

TRAVIS: Of good dragons, or bad?

SAM: Bad dragons.

TRAVIS: Okay. I feel like he had a good insight,
but the hand does bad things, right?

LAURA: The hand does really bad things. You know
what you should do is bring that to Bahamut.

LIAM: Yeah, after you piss on it.

MARISHA: Why are you so connected to the pissing
thing?

LAURA: Don't piss on it, Grog.

TRAVIS: But he said preserve it.

LAURA: But then maybe if they try to use the hand
to find it, it might lead them to you instead

because you've already pissed on it.

TRAVIS: Lead them to my junk?

LAURA: Potentially.

TRAVIS: People have come looking for it for less.

LAURA: You don't want people chopping off your
junk thinking your junk is Vecna's hand, do you?

TRAVIS: It doesn't even look like a hand. Just
like one really big middle finger.

(laughter)

LIAM: It's like a mole, right?

TRAVIS: Yeah. All right, I have it. I'm not going
to preserve it.

LAURA: Put it in the bag of colding.

LIAM: Such a mistake.

SAM: That's on the to-do list. We'll go find him.

LAURA: All right.

TRAVIS: And Bahamut is the platinum--

LAURA: Tiamat's the bad guy.

TRAVIS: No, Bahamut is the good dragon of the
platinum variety?

ALL: Yes.

TRAVIS: Would you say they are at odds?

TALIESIN and SAM: Yes.

LIAM: Safe bet.

TRAVIS: Like Godzilla and King Kong?

LIAM: I don't know those references, but yeah,
they are at odds.

MARISHA: What's-her-name worshipped Bahamut.

LAURA: Kima.

MARISHA: Was it Kima? Kima! Kima worships
Bahamut.

TRAVIS: She was badass.

LIAM and LAURA: Yes.

TRAVIS: I'll just hold on to the hand right now.

LAURA: What's going on there, Grog?

TRAVIS: Nothing. We just had a big fight.

TALIESIN: You're making that monologue face. Like
that face someone makes when they're listening to

some very complex internal monologue. You don't
make that face very often. You're making it right

now. Just start speaking whatever's in your head
right now. Free-form.

TRAVIS: I have to go after the hand, I must kill
Vecna, I have to do these things.

TALIESIN: Okay, this is starting to paint a
picture. You feel better now?

TRAVIS: Nuh-huh.

TALIESIN: Okay.

MARISHA: Is that going on all the time in your
head?

TRAVIS: No.

MARISHA: Okay.

TALIESIN: Are you lying right now?

SAM: He nodded when he said no.

LIAM: DM, just for funsies, do I sense Vecna in
any way, shape, or form?

MATT: No.

LIAM: Okay. Definitely want to piss on that hand,
Grog.

LAURA: Don't piss on the hand. Number one: it's
already in the bag of colding and I don't want

everything else pissed on.

LIAM: Grog and I don't share much!

TALIESIN: Except pissing?

(laughter)

TALIESIN: It was an honest question.

TRAVIS: That's true.

LAURA: What should we do, you guys?

TALIESIN: I'm so tired.

MARISHA: I grab onto Vax and don't let go.

SAM: We have more pressing concerns.

TALIESIN: That does remind me. Scanlan?

SAM: What?

TALIESIN: You're going to have to give it back
now.

SAM: Give what back?

TALIESIN: You know exactly what.

SAM: The gun?

TALIESIN: Yes.

TRAVIS: That was part of a trade.

SAM: This is my gun.

TALIESIN: I don't think it's your gun.

SAM: I found it.

TALIESIN: You didn't.

TRAVIS: No, there was a trade of items. I got a
cloak of smashing out of it, and you got... other stuff.

SAM: I found it fair and square; it's my gun.

TALIESIN: There's no fair and square. And
honestly, if you were anybody else, I would find

it when I was rummaging through your corpse later.
But it's you. So instead I just use my words, and

I'm trying to be a better person. If you really
like it, maybe we'll have a special one made

that's a little safer. But not that one. That's
one of mine.

SAM: I look so cool.

TALIESIN: I'll make you something fancy that's a
little less prone to explode.

LIAM: Scanlan, you should know you always look
cool. Always.

TALIESIN: Especially with the head thing. It's
quite nice.

MARISHA: Yeah, this is awesome. Does he still have
the blessing?

MATT: The blessing has faded by now.

TALIESIN: You should get that tattooed in
permanently.

MARISHA: Yeah.

SAM: That's a good idea.

TALIESIN: That's a really good idea.

MARISHA: I can draw on you with the remaining
remnants. That way you have it there, always.

SAM: I love it.

MARISHA: Okay. I try to draw the outline of the
remaining glyph on his head.

MATT: So you take some ash and charcoal from the
nearby rubble and loosely draw the symbol on his

forehead. Roll a dexterity check.

MARISHA: Okay. Straight dex? Don't fuck me, Gil!
14.

MATT: 14. It's passable.

MARISHA: Yeah, that right there. That's perfect.
Get that tattooed.

SAM: All right. It's going to happen. I feel like
we should all get a tattoo to commemorate this.

TALIESIN: On the forehead?

LAURA and MARISHA: Definitely on the forehead.

LIAM: Well, maybe in different places. We don't all
need to get it in the same place. Maybe on a

theme, but not the exact same thing?

LAURA: We already all got tattoos, didn't we?

TALIESIN: Well, we got tattoos. That's all that
matters.

TRAVIS: No, we didn't.

MARISHA: I'm not sure what we're talking about
anymore.

LAURA: No, I thought we got them in character.

MARISHA: No, he got them.

LIAM: I got one. And I got one.

LAURA: Oh, we got the Slayer's Take.

MARISHA: Wait, we're branded, and then I've got
mine, and then he has his.

LIAM: I have the burnt hand on my back. Elven. No,
it's not mostly healed. Scanlan Shorthalt! You

don't need a gun to look cool. You are the Meat
Man. You are Burt Reynolds. You are a fucking hero.

SAM: I'm going to throw it away. Wrist Pocket!

(laughter)

MATT: Make a sleight of hand check.

SAM: Nine. 12.

MATT: 12?

MARISHA: Bullshit! My passive perception is 21.

MATT: Yeah, you guys totally see him. It's the
worst example--

LIAM: That's the trick I do for my
eight-year-old!

TALIESIN: Look at it go! Wow!

(laughter)

TRAVIS: You caught it?! You threw it--

SAM: Around the world.

TRAVIS: Oh my god!

(laughter)

TRAVIS: I faint.

(laughter)

LAURA: Hey, while he's out, should we get this
sword off him?

LIAM: Why?

LAURA: Because it seems like he's a little weird
from it. Nobody else feels that way?

TALIESIN: I think so.

TRAVIS: (gasps) You're so strong. What'd I miss?

LAURA: Nothing.

MARISHA: We were talking about you. I mean, we
were talking about-- sorry, I'm still working on it.

LAURA: Yeah, no, it's getting better. Should we
get off of the titan, maybe?

SAM: It could fall.

TALIESIN: Does anyone want to start walking
towards the city to see how bad it really is?

LAURA: We'll have to get through the titan, or we
can fly down. Outside of that, I don't know.

SAM: How many of us can fly? Well, I guess we
could take a couple of trips on the carpet.

TALIESIN: We've got a carpet. Some of us have
wings.

LIAM and MARISHA: My wings are gone.

MATT: Yeah, your wings are gone. Pike's wings are
gone. You guys have your broom; you have the

carpet.

SAM: So we can take three trips on the carpet, or
something?

TALIESIN: We can ride on the broom.

MARISHA: Have we taken a short rest, at this
point?

MATT: Yeah, you guys would have taken a short
rest, at this point.

MARISHA: My beast shape's back.

MATT: I'll say for the purposes of when you were
helping with the ritual that he was casting,

because that's an hour long, that would have been
a short rest, easy.

LIAM: What are you going to be?

MARISHA: Well, what do you want to fly in on? What
do you want?

LIAM: Dragon?

MARISHA: I can't do that. I can do anything in the
animal kingdom.

TRAVIS: Before we go down, before we leave, what
about Sylas?

LAURA: (gasps) Sylas.

MARISHA: He flew away.

LAURA: Right, but he's repairing somewhere.

TRAVIS: They have coffins, right?

LIAM: We deduced that it doesn't take him that
long to come back together. And it's been--

MATT: Not terribly long.

LIAM: But we're right at that cutoff point.

MATT: Maybe.

TALIESIN: Try to scry on him! He's probably having
a bad day. There's enough time.

MARISHA: I'll scry on him.

TALIESIN: There's a gold dragon that should be--

MARISHA: Oh, I haven't used any of my 5th-level
spells!

LAURA: Do you have Daylight, still? Something with
sun? I guess sunlight would take him out, because

it's during the day.

MARISHA: Yeah. I still have 3rd-level spells. Yep.
I also have my 6th-level spells. I have Sunbeam

learned, which is dope.

LIAM: That's all you need.

MARISHA: Okay, I'm going to scry on him.

TALIESIN: Grog, do you want to trade boots, by the
way, again?

MATT: Okay, and he's used all of his resistances.

TALIESIN: We don't have to, if you really like
them.

MARISHA: He's used all of his legendary
resistances? Is that what that was?

MATT: Yeah. That is a natural 19 plus seven wisdom
save. So that's a 26.

MARISHA: Oh my god!

SAM: He beat your scry?

MARISHA: He rolled a natural 19?

MATT: Natural 19.

LAURA: You can't do it?

MARISHA: I can do it again. Can I do it again?

MATT: If you have another spell slot for it.

MARISHA: I do it again!

MATT: Natural 16 plus seven. So that's a 23.

SAM: That wins.

LAURA: Can I try to cast Locate Object on the
pants he was wearing?

LIAM: That's amazing!

LAURA: They're an object.

TALIESIN: She has seen them.

LAURA: I've seen them!

TALIESIN: They're very nice.

MATT: Let me consult the verbiage of--

LIAM: This is amazing, and I love you. That is
amazing!

TALIESIN: That is the greatest thing I've ever
heard. Locate Pants. I would like to scry upon the

pants. The pantalones.

LIAM: On his loafers.

MATT: Okay. All right, cool. And you have a
2nd-level spell slot for this?

LAURA: Yes.

MATT: So as you complete the spell and try to
focus as hard as you can on the pants of Lord

Sylas Briarwood--

TALIESIN: He has pajamas he changes into.

LIAM: They're Batman pajamas.

MATT: Nothing.

LAURA: Nothing? He's definitely recovering naked.
Fuck! Nothing.

MARISHA: No pants?

LAURA: No pants.

LIAM: He's in the buck!

MARISHA: You guys! He's shirt-cocking somewhere!

(laughter)

MATT: He prepared! He knew! "It's the only way
they won't find me!" He pulls his tearaways off

and chucks them.

TRAVIS: Just goes up and says hi to people.

MARISHA: Flashing innocents through all the city!

MATT: It's his dominate action.

TRAVIS: Yeah, right!

LAURA: We're going to have to worry about him at
some point.

SAM: Not now.

MARISHA: I can try and scrying eye him. I also
still have one more 5th-level spell.

LAURA: Yeah, but how are we going to take him out
if you use all your spells to find him?

MARISHA: I have a 6th.

TRAVIS: Maybe we let him go.

LIAM: She's saying you got one more shot, and we
still have some sunlight.

LAURA and MARISHA: One more time.

MATT: Well, you used the scrying eye before you
took the long rest in the Feywild, or was it

after?

LIAM: That was for finding the Sword of Kas,
wasn't it, before we slept?

MATT: Yeah, that would have been before. Yeah,
okay. So you can use it.

MARISHA: But I'm using my 5th-level spell first.

MATT: Okay, you are?

MARISHA: Yeah, I'm using my 3rd.

MATT: That's a natural seven.

SAM: That could work.

MATT: As you close your eyes and focus, trying
desperately to find the location of Sylas

Briarwood, your vision pulls back and is thrust
past the titan, and there's a flash of movement.

You're suddenly seeing trees. You're sensing
somewhere in the thick forest of the Vasper

Timberlands. And there, you focus on rapidly
flapping bat wings.

MARISHA: Still trying to get back? He's still
trying to get back!

MATT: You don't know. He's in the forest
somewhere. He's in a deep forest with bits of snow

around him. And you're only catching glimpses of
it as he goes through the shadowed underbrush.

MARISHA: No type of landmark?

MATT: Just trees, endless trees.

LAURA: He's running away.

TALIESIN: I would run if I were him.

SAM: Deal with him another day.

MARISHA: He's in the Vasper forest.

LIAM: Well, we'll never see him again.

TALIESIN: He may finally have had enough.

MARISHA: Do you ever think there's a chance for
Lady Briarwood to come back?

LAURA: I don't think so.

TRAVIS and LIAM: Never say never.

TALIESIN: Never say never, but probably not.

LAURA: I mean, if we can bring people back, they
might be able to.

TRAVIS: That's a good point.

TALIESIN: He would have to work very hard to
make it happen.

TRAVIS: We're going to live a life of paranoia,
aren't we?

TALIESIN: Well, we knew that going in.

SAM: We'll be okay.

LAURA: So do we go see the leaders here?

SAM: Yeah. Let's go.

TALIESIN: Let's go see who's left.

MATT: All right.

SAM: To the platinum temple?

MATT: As you guys are having this conversation,
around the corner, you see there's a few of the

eagle riders that are getting on their eagle back
and flying off. There is one figure that stays

behind and that turns around and begins to walk
your direction. In the chaos, you hadn't noticed

that when Vecna had been dispelled, the force cage
that had maintained and locked in J'mon Sa Ord had

vanished. You see them turn around and look
towards you in humanoid form. They approach with

the long, jet-black hair, the darkened skin, the
beautiful coal-like ember eyes. Tall, almost as

tall as Grog, though lithe in form and simply
clothed. J'mon approaches. "Well, I'm certainly

"impressed. I apologize to have not been as much
help as I had hoped."

LAURA: That was a shitty spell he cast.

MATT: "It seems to be his forte. Nonetheless, the
least I can do is offer you a way into the city."

TRAVIS: That would be lovely.

MATT: "I would like to speak with the council that
remains, as well. Come with me." J'mon turns

around and steps about 20 feet away before the
wings sprout out of their back and stretch to each

side. You see the large brass dragon form expand,
the claws (impact) onto the ground. As they turn

their head back over their shoulder, the deep
voice of the dragon form: "Hop on."

LAURA: I'm going to hold on to Velora. And
Trinket, I swear it's going to be the last time,

buddy. I'm not going to keep making you go in this
necklace much more.

MATT: (bear grunts) Licks the side of your cheek.
And closes his eyes, waiting for it.

LAURA: Ooh, I love him so much.

MATT: Into the necklace.

LIAM: And as Vax and Keyleth get situated on
J'mon's back, I whisper in her ears: I was going

to say eagle. Giant eagle.

MARISHA: Yeah. That's good to know.

TRAVIS: I pick up Pike and put her on my
shoulders. Get on the dragon.

MATT: Okay. Pike climbs up, now wingless. "Thank
you." Grabs onto the belt you have across your chest.

TRAVIS: Yeah.

MATT: All right. So do you all climb up onto
J'mon's back?

SAM: Absolutely.

MATT: All right. J'mon, in Devo'ssa form, then
begins to run at a fast speed towards the edge of

the city. Eventually, the wings begin to flap, and
with one giant thrust of wind, ascends. And once

again, you feel the wind rocket through your hair,
as was your entry towards the titan. You begin to

crest over the edge of Thar Amphala, over the
titan, and down towards the center of Vasselheim,

the wind roaring past your face, your cloaks
whipping behind you. You have a bird's-eye view of

the city that you've essentially saved. And
really, did so through a quick jaunt to the

Feywild.

The Braving Grounds still, while in severe
disarray and flames still burn, most everything's

under control now. Whatever remains of the remnant
cultists, warriors, and undead have either been

destroyed, captured, or run out of the city. As
you pick up 40, 50 feet over the rooftops, you see

as hundreds of survivors have haphazardly armed
Bastions, as civilians of Vasselheim have picked

up whatever arms were available, of soldiers in
the streets, children holding the hands of their

families, all glance up and point at the majestic
brass dragon that coasts not more than maybe 40,

50 feet ahead, signifying once more a symbol of
hope and victory. You hear the shouts behind you.

As you begin to make your way around the Heaven's
Stair mountain and then up, gliding over the steps

leading up towards the platinum sanctuary.

As you begin to glide up, you can see the steps
are littered with broken bone, splatters of

blood, broken bodies and silvered armor, and
familiar black sludge, connoting the remains of

slain gloomstalkers. The immediate ground conflict
is over here and has been for some time. The

stillness is now occupied with clusters of wounded
riders and platinum warriors that now rest atop

the apex of the stair and the sanctuary platform
itself before you approach the entryway in the

pillars. As you ascend, floating up, Devo'ssa
lands right at the top of the stair as all the

soldiers and medics who are in the process of handling
the wounded, gathering the dead, all stop and look

at the majestic brass dragon form as they lower
themselves to allow each of you to carefully step off.

As you do, you watch as the chatter, the
conversation, the quiver of worry, the intensity

of the recovery, comes to stillness as each of the
soldiers, even those who have seen better days,

stand up with a look of acknowledgment, greeting
you as you arrive, and all give a respectful bow

of the head or kneel to you as you approach and
pass by. In the stillness, you begin to walk

towards the opening of the sanctuary, the doors
open already, and glance over your shoulder to see

that J'mon has retaken their human form and is now
walking at your side.

Entering the sanctuary, you can see folks are
rushing around a bit, and they notice your

arrival, as well, but are also trying to make sure
that everything is accounted for, and there's a

bit of hustle and bustle. The old Scalebearer Yon,
who greeted you first to Vasselheim, approaches

quickly. "Oh, goodness me! Hello? You're well.
You've looked better, but so have we. That's fine.

"I have questions to ask. But perhaps it's best
that-- come with me." And darts back towards the

central meeting chambers of the Platinum
Sanctuary. You can see the circle of pillars that

surround the wide marbled floors of the center
chamber where all these council meetings have

previously taken place. You can see battle has
taken place here. While most of the bodies or the

wounded or dead have been removed at this point,
you can see there are elements of chipped and

broken stone and marble. You can see scattered
remains and blood stains at points towards the

entryway. But most of it appears to have been
halted at the entryway. All of the combat has

halted within the sanctuary. Glancing past, you
can see most of the council you met last is not

here. They're probably handling their various
portions of the city. But you do see amongst a

number of inner guardians of the sanctuary
Highbearer Vord, who himself looks like he's seen

a bit of a fray, and Allura Vysoren to his side.
Both harried, but alive. As soon as you begin to

approach, their conversation comes to a halt. As
Allura turns and sees you all, her face brightens

and she immediately rushes up, tossing any sort of
formalities to the side, and runs up. Before she

can give you a hug, she sees the child in your
arms.

LAURA: She's all right.

MATT: "I'm so glad."

MARISHA: Yeah, group hug!

MATT: She pulls you in, and you all bundle into
this big group hug, heaving breaths of relief

cascade through your grouping. You hear the throat
clear behind as Vord goes, (clears throat).

TRAVIS: Decorum.

LAURA: How's Kima?

MATT: "I assume she's well. She's been doing what
she does best, which is wander the streets,

"destroying things that she doesn't like. I've been
keeping a close eye from a distance as best I can.

"She seems all right."

TALIESIN: Any word from Gilmore in the last hour?

MATT: "No, why?"

MARISHA: He was in the tower. He was a decoy; we
almost slayed him.

LAURA: He'd been taken.

LIAM and TALIESIN: He's all right.

SAM: Do we know where he teleported off to?

MARISHA: We sent him off with Cassandra.

TALIESIN: Into the woods.

LAURA: Into the wood.

SAM: Don't worry, it's a big woods. It'll be
okay.

LIAM: This city still stands. You have carried out
a miracle.

MATT: "I've done nothing. Word seems to--" And at
that point, she gets cut off by Highbearer Vord,

who steps forward, his arms crossed. "Word seems
to have spread, and I wish not to celebrate

"prematurely. I have reports that you were there,
that you did battle with this ancient beast. What

"is your assurance? What is your confidence that
this is indeed over, and we're not lulled into a

"false sense of security?"

TRAVIS: We're pretty sure he's alive and well. You
know, he's a threat right now. (whispering) What,

do we have proof?

LAURA: Oh, proof.

TALIESIN: I've never known a true sense of
security. I'm not entirely sure.

SAM: The proof is we're here and we're alive.

LAURA: And that titan has stopped moving.

LIAM: I am the champion of the Raven Queen. And
she has allowed me to track his every movement for

a while now.

MATT: "I recall you mentioning that when we last
met."

LIAM: He's gone.

TRAVIS: There was a process. We had trammels.

LAURA: You remembered the word.

TRAVIS: Yes.

MARISHA: Do I still have the remains of the broken
trammel or did it shatter?

MATT: No, that shit shattered. It turned to dust.

LAURA: Yeah, glitter bomb. Oh, glitter-bomb Vecna!
I like the idea that he got glitter-bombed.

MATT: "That was my good eye!"

(laughter)

MATT: All right. You see, as you guys are
discussing, the Highbearer's eyes lock to Vax's,

and you see softness return to his face. The
tension, the unknowing, begins to subside with a

smile, comes across his stilted, older elvish
visage. "You all. There was a time I did not look past your

"beginnings. I am ashamed at my misjudgment." He
looks around as folks begin to gather. He

acknowledges J'mon, who's approached. They've
bowed, carefully. "Many heroes rose to challenge

"this day. Many we've lost. And many others that
remain to remember them. Let us vow to never

"forget those who gave everything so that we could
still stand here to remember. You, Vox Machina,

"stand as that beacon of hope upon which we all we
hold. You may not fully understand the scope of

"what you have done but I assure you, we do. And we
will. We humble of Vasselheim are eternally in

"your debt. As is much of the ignorant world,
perhaps. On behalf of Silver Talon's Reach, I

"thank you for everything."

The rest of the room who's begun to gather now,
you see other soldiers that were waiting outside

as you first approached have begun to filter in. And
as you glance back towards the entry hallway of

the Platinum Sanctuary, you see faces. People that
greeted you in. People hearing these words

resounding in silence, and they all begin to bow
low.

LAURA: This is weird.

SAM: Should we say something?

TRAVIS: Ask for money?

LAURA: They haven't done our fees, right?

MARISHA: I'm supremely uncomfortable.

SAM: You are the leader of your people. Maybe you
should say something.

MARISHA: What?

SAM: You're a leader!

MARISHA: No! But I'm not a leader of these
people.

LAURA: You've been giving us really good
inspirational speeches. Get up and say something.

TALIESIN: Get up and say something.

LAURA: Say something really awesome.

TALIESIN: Just tell people it was brilliant and
great.

MARISHA: Okay. I step forward.

MATT: So as you stand here amongst this procession
of warriors, people that now look up and don't see

Keyleth the druid, they see the Voice of the
Tempest. They see one of the

as-to-probably-be-remembered saviors of the city
and beyond. All eyes are on you as Highbearer Vord

steps away.

LIAM: I'm still holding your hand.

MARISHA: (chuckles, sighs) The bravery of
Vasselheim remains evident on this day, and you

all should be proud that your reputation of a city
unfallen by invasion or attack remains, and that

is only because of the faith and the bravery and
the strength of the citizens of this amazing city.

We of Vox Machina are proud and honored to have
fought by every single one of you, and we vow to

continue to stand by your side through the rest of
our days. Huzzah!

ALL: Huzzah!

(cheering)

ASHLEY: Hey, can you hear me?

MATT: With a wave of cheers that roar from within
these marbled halls that echo, boom and

reverberate--

MARISHA: To 1,000 years of Vasselheim! Huzzah!

MATT: Cheers and cries and fists raise and Pike's
cheering--

ASHLEY: Yay!

(laughter)

MATT: You see Velora pull away from Allura's arm,
who's come by to help you carry her, and she:

(weakly) "Yay." And Allura looks to you with an
absolute look of respect and pride. Even the

Highbearer seems to be taken by the words. Shit,
everyone in the room gets temporary hit points,

practically.

MARISHA: Yeah! 20 hit points now.

MATT: The sun-glass roof, which currently has been
sitting within the shadow of the mountain, the

sunlight begins to peak past and glide
its way across the marble floor as everyone's

cheering and the room now, which once was in
shadow of the mountain, is now lit up with

sunlight. Now you can see the glittering armor
that peeks through the dirt, the grime, the blood,

shining and sparkling on each of you, across
Pike's beautiful armor, across all the warriors

that stand here, across the Scalebearer's design,
across your hair. The room is filled with light

and though you sense the presence of probably
Bahamut, glancing down you can't help but think

that this is also the approving glance of Pelor,
perhaps a bit of the Everlight. As the cheers

begin to fade, the crowd begins to pull away.
Conversations progress, thank-yous are given,

people come up to you. And eventually you guys
begin to step out of the Sanctuary and there you

look down across the upper platform, looking down
over the city. You can see the Birthheart, the

Duskmeadow, pillars of smoke rising up as the sun
now hangs high in the sky.

A cold sensation takes you in the chest, Vax. A
small pain.

A second one. And your eyes shoot over across to
the Raven's Crest, damaged but still standing. You

turn around to look at the rest of your family and
as you guys look at his face, in but a flash you

can see this dark shape behind him. This looming
black cloak, this lithe dress that cascades down

into a bell and drags across the ground. And there
you see the form of the Raven Queen, porcelain

mask, long dark hair behind, as her hands slowly
creep over the shoulders of Vax'ildan.

TALIESIN: I walk to step in between.

MATT: In between the two of them?

TALIESIN: Yes.

MATT: While the lips do not move on this mask, the
voice in your head says, "You've done well, but do

"not approach. This is not for you."

MARISHA: No.

TALIESIN: Do you recall what you told me once?

MATT: No response. Do you continue to walk?

TALIESIN: I do.

MATT: Make a wisdom saving throw.

LIAM: Percy.

TALIESIN: No. No, that's-- actually, you know
what? Hey, that's right. I'm going to Resolve that.

LIAM: Freddie.

TALIESIN: This is not about you. That's a 19, 22.

MATT: That does not do it.

TALIESIN: Damn it. I have a 19.

MATT: I know. Muscles lock into place and you find
yourself held there on your third step. The voice,

which is omnipresent in your mind, all about,
continues. Soothing. Cold, distant but still

soothing. The mask slowly looks down towards you.
"You have done well, my champion. The skein of

"destiny has tugged in your wake, and even this
victory culminates with the crossing of a few

"fate-touched souls. By your hand, your bravery,
your sacrifice, you ensure a future for all you

"love and all who will come to love you and what
you've done. You may never know the import of your

"time here, but take solace in the knowledge that
you will see the ripples of your actions carry

"hope for generations to come. My Vax'ildan. It is
time. Say your goodbyes, then come join my side."

And the hands pull away. She stands there.

SAM: Now? We don't even get a night together or
anything?

MARISHA: It's not fair.

LAURA: We've got a really long time to be alive.
You've got an infinite time. What's a few more years?

MARISHA: He sacrificed himself in your name; you
remain the only ascended. And yet he still loses?

MATT: "He does not lose. The gifts I gave, indeed
all of your patrons gave, were so that you," and

you watch as her hands extend almost impossibly
long around her, "and everyone here still stands.

"I understand selfishness. I understand the impulse
of mortality. But I would hope that you understand

"that the actions that you've allowed Vax'ildan in
this sacrifice are far larger. But we made a deal.

"With power comes a price."

MARISHA: I'm not ready.

LIAM: You're ready for your people.

MARISHA: Not without you.

LIAM: I am so very proud of you, and so grateful
for everything you gave to me. You are going to be

a strong leader and a wise leader.

MARISHA: I'll find you. I promise. I'll see you
again.

LIAM: I'll never be that far away.

MARISHA: Forever.

LIAM: And ever and always.

Boys. My brothers... I love you.

SAM: We love you, too. Thank you for everything.
If you want us to fight her, just say jenga, and

we will.

LIAM: Maybe from the other side. Someday, just for
shits and giggles.

TRAVIS: Can I ask, are you afraid?

LIAM: I'm going to go visit my mother, and I'll
see all of you again. Freddie.

TALIESIN: I do not accept this.

LIAM: I know. But I charge you to take good care
of my sister and love her. And your friend

Keyleth, love her, as well. She will need it. She
will need friends.

TALIESIN: Of course.

LIAM: Thank you for trying.

SAM: I wish I could have done more.

LIAM: You did everything. Pickle? Pickle, you
showed me the way. I know it doesn't look like

that right now, but you absolutely did.

ASHLEY: I wish I could restore you.

LIAM: (chuckles) You taught me purpose, Pickle.
Purpose. And I know I will see you again.

ASHLEY: Isn't there--

SAM: She said is there something we can do? It's
hard to hear her.

LIAM: Be there for them. You be there for them.
You're the light in all our lives.

LAURA: No.

LIAM: I never had a greater friend than you. And
we traveled a lot, I never had a greater friend

than you.

LAURA: I feel like she's taking part of me away.

LIAM: I will bring it with me to remind me of
you.

LAURA: I don't know how to live.

LIAM: I will see you again.

LAURA: I know.

LIAM: I will see you again. And I will tell your
mother that you say hello.

LAURA: Please. 
I love you. I don't accept this.

LIAM: I know that it's hard. And I am sorry.

LAURA: I'm going to find you.

LIAM: I take Keyleth's face in my hands and
happily take one more kiss. I'm sorry it's so cold.

MARISHA: I don't care. I don't accept this. I love
you.

LIAM: I will never stop loving you.

MARISHA: This isn't fair.

LIAM: I know.

MARISHA: I guess we have to say goodbye.

LIAM: For now. I love you, Keyleth of the Air
Ashari.

MARISHA: I love you, Vax'ildan. I'll see you
again.

LIAM: I look to the Raven Queen and as I walk
closer, since I leveled up, I use the druid

cantrip Druidcraft and grow snowdrops out from
where I stand, out to all of my family. Out to

where they stand. S.H.I.T.s, thank you.

How lucky I have been to have had all of you. 
How lucky, indeed. Thank you.

MATT: And he turns and walks towards the darkened
cloak of his matron. In the darkness of her cloak,

you see a brief light, and it's brighter for you.
As you walk forward, you see reaching from the

light the dark hair, the fair skin, and the wide
smile of your mother, Elaina. As she greets you,

she says, "I'm so proud."

The rest of you watch as her cloak begins to fade
like a slowly scattered shadow in creeping

sunlight. And as the snowdrop flowers continue
with each step, you blink,

and it's just feathers.

We're going to take a break, we'll be back here in
a few minutes, guys. (heavy exhale) Still more of

this story to tell. See you guys in a bit.

[break]

MATT: Hello, everyone, and welcome back. So before
we jump back in, our winner in the chat of the

giveaway is Mister Milgram. Congratulations.
Danoba will reach out to you and get your contact

information and get your prize sent off to you, so
well done. All right, so. Bringing us back in.

TALIESIN: No.

SAM: Something feels different about the table.

MATT: Yeah. As the cold wind subsides and the
feathers glide through the wind off the edge of

the Silver Talon's Reach, pinnacle of Platinum
Sanctuary, you gather your thoughts. Quiet creeps

over.

SAM: I feel like I could have taken her if I had a
gun. I'm just saying.

MARISHA: Scanlan, have we ever told you you're an
asshole?

SAM: All the time.

TALIESIN: I use Manners on Scanlan.

MATT: All right. What's the save on that?

TALIESIN: Wow. Where is it?

MARISHA: You got to sort through all your coffee
stains.

TALIESIN: These are my coffee stains.

MARISHA: He's really irritable.

SAM: Jesus, you have so many things.

TALIESIN: Yes, I do. It's a--

LAURA: I hug Trinket.

TALIESIN: Ranged attack roll with an attack bonus
equal to my dex modifier plus my proficiency

bonus.

MARISHA: Keyleth sits next to Vex and lays her
head on her shoulder.

SAM: Against AC?

TALIESIN: Against you.

SAM: Oh. (laughs) I'm out.

TALIESIN: Yeah. That's a six, 12, 24, I think.

MATT: Okay and what's the-- or it just hits and he
has to make--

TALIESIN: It just hits. You can make a strength
check against 20.

MATT: To try and break out of it as an action,
right? So as you finish your statement, Percival

throws an orb at you and it expands, locks you up
into this cage of metal bars and claws and chains,

and you're locked in place, unable to move.

SAM: Feels right.

TRAVIS: Was that necessary?

TALIESIN: I'll let him out when I'm feeling like
it.

TRAVIS: Makes sense.

MARISHA: I don't have the strength to argue with
him.

LAURA: Sorry, Scanlan.

SAM: (muffled) It's okay. I'm okay in here.

TALIESIN: Actually, I'll unlock it so he can say
that.

SAM: Oh, hi. That was a very touching ceremony.
Well, I'll just be in here, crying.

MARISHA: Aw.

LAURA: Percy, please let him out, I can't take it
right now.

TALIESIN: I very quickly go through Scanlan's
pockets to make sure there's nothing else that I

need to take back from him.

MATT: Make an investigation check.

TALIESIN: Thank you. Nope. I let him out.
Manners.

MARISHA: That might be the last natural one of
this campaign. You have to scream it from a

mountaintop, man.

SAM: The golden snitch!

LAURA: How could you do that?

MARISHA: Betrayal.

MATT: It's mine now.

(laughter)

TRAVIS: A celestial hand reaches out of the
clouds.

MATT: Hello, next campaign.

LAURA: Oh shit.

MARISHA: One man's trash.

LAURA: Keyleth, dear.

MARISHA: Yes?

LAURA: I know it was never made official, but I'm
assuming you two would've spent your life

together. As much of it as he had, anyway.

MARISHA: He taught me how to love and I have a
hard time with interpersonal relationships.

LAURA: I would've never known.

MARISHA: So I would've held onto that one for as
long as I could've. And I still will.

LAURA: I still count you as my sister.

MARISHA: As I count you as mine. Going to have to
look out for each other now.

LAURA: Yes.

TALIESIN: I'm going to quietly wander outside.

MATT: You're on the platform outside.

TALIESIN: Oh, I'm going to break off for a
second.

MARISHA: Also, fuck that raven bitch.

LAURA: She's terrible.

MARISHA: What the fuck?

LAURA: You know we have a temple to her in
Whitestone. I mean, here's the thing though. I

feel like I want to destroy it because I hate her
so much, but at the same time, I feel like we

should leave it because maybe we can talk to him
through it. We'll try it.

TRAVIS: Pike.

ASHLEY: Yeah?

TRAVIS: While we're here, I feel like if Bahamut
is the natural enemy of Tiamat, I don't know if I

want to be bound to this sword for much longer. I
feel like my time of hunting Vecna is done. I feel like

we have Arkhan's hand. Maybe if we handed it over
to the Platinum-- these people?

ASHLEY: Okay. Yeah.

TRAVIS: Then somebody else could take up that
hunt, right?

ASHLEY: If that's what you want, Grog. I don't
think that's a bad idea.

TRAVIS: Yeah. Okay. I think I want to turn over
this sword, but would you stay with me?

ASHLEY: Of course I will.

TRAVIS: He's very persuasive. Actually, Scanlan, 
will you come with me also?

SAM: Absolutely.

TRAVIS: All right. Can I make my way back towards
somebody official-looking?

MATT: That would be either Highbearer Vord or
the one you met earlier.

TRAVIS: Highbearer Orb sounds good.

MATT: As you step back into the Platinum
Sanctuary, the voice creeps in your head. "I know

"not what you're thinking, but know: together we are
more powerful than anyone who's wielded me. We

"could take him down. We could destroy it all. You
cannot, you will not discard me."

TRAVIS: Anyone ever? Stronger than anyone that's ever
wielded you?

MATT: "Anyone who's ever wielded me. Together, we
could bring down anything that bears his title.

"Anyone who pursues his power."

ASHLEY: Grog?

TRAVIS: Yeah?

ASHLEY: What's he saying?

TRAVIS: (sighs) You make a really good point.
We're really strong together and unstoppable.

MATT: You feel this (pulse) in your brain, there's
a flash vision of the hand, once held in your

grasp, swollen atop the actual body of
Vecna in the battle. Your vision comes back and

that urge in your belly creeps up.

TRAVIS: I mean, hold on, Pike. Maybe we could do a
lot of good. We could really rid the world of a

lot of bad stuff.

ASHLEY: Listen, we did that before you knew this
sword. We're all strong together. You were strong

before it and you'll be strong after it.

TRAVIS: (exhales) Okay. (strained) Highbearer Orb,
a moment, please.

MATT: As you enter the chamber once more, the
Highbearer turns around. "Yes, Grog Strongjaw,

"what do you require?"

TRAVIS: I would like to make a deposit.

MATT: "Go on."

TRAVIS: I have on my person the Sword--

MATT: Make a wisdom saving throw.

TRAVIS: Okay. 14.

MATT: The words don't escape your mouth and you
realize this was a bad idea.

TRAVIS: (sighs) I'm so sorry to waste your time. I
wanted to thank you for hosting us. Bidet. And I

start to turn and walk out.

ASHLEY: I grab him by the hand. So he can't go
anywhere.

SAM: Are you not doing this, Grog?

TRAVIS: It's a bad idea.

MATT: "We could do so much together. We can destroy
anyone who's ever thought to pray to the now

"Undying King sealed away. We could wipe his
presence from this planet!"

TRAVIS: (strained) Together we could do so much,
we could dry eraser-board the planet.

SAM: Whatever your wishes are, Grog. I'll go along
with it. If you wish to keep the sword, that's

fine with me.

TRAVIS: I want to keep it.

SAM: Great.

ASHLEY: Scanlan, I don't think this is a good
idea.

SAM: Okay. Sell me on this.

ASHLEY: Look at him!

SAM: He's just flexing his face muscles.

ASHLEY: He's getting all weird.

TRAVIS: (strained) I want to keep it!

SAM: No, he does this when he needs to go poo.
I've seen him do it.

ASHLEY: I know. He definitely does this when he
needs to go poo. But this is so much worse!

SAM: I mean, it's been a hard day. I think we all
need a really good bowel movement.

TRAVIS: I start walking out of the Sanctuary.

MATT: Pike, make a strength check.

ASHLEY: No. Yes.

MATT: So roll and add your strength modifier,
which I think is four.

ASHLEY: It's five.

MATT: Oh, it's five.

LAURA: She's got the gauntlets on.

MATT: Gauntlets bring it to 19, so it'll be a plus
four, I'm pretty sure.

ASHLEY: Wait, I think I had a plus one somewhere.

SAM: Did you get some boon or boost or something?

ASHLEY: With a plus four, it's 17.

MATT: 17. Grog, roll a strength check.

LAURA: Roll a one! Roll a one!

TRAVIS: 19.

MATT: 19. Pike, your feet begin to scrape against
the marble as Grog's form and strength, which is

just a little bit more than you. He's a little
more monster than your monster right now.

ASHLEY: Can I swing my other hand up and try to
pull more?

MATT: I'll allow you one more strength check with
disadvantage.

SAM: Really conflicted here.

TRAVIS: (strained) I want to help the planet.

SAM: He seems totally normal to me.

ASHLEY: 14.

MATT: Grog, roll another strength check.

TRAVIS: 15.

MATT: Still, your metal boots are scraping across
the marble as you're pulling and trying to hold

him back as he's walking out the room. The voice
says, "Yes. Together, the two of us."

TRAVIS: (strained) Just the two of us. We can make
it if we try! Just the two of us, Kas and I.

MATT: Highbearer Vord says, "Is everything all
right?"

SAM: Pike, do you want me to try to stop him?
What's going on?

ASHLEY: I think this is not a good idea. Grog,
this is something you wanted to do. You need to

fight it.

TRAVIS: Can I try and fight it?

MATT: You already lost at the moment. So yeah,
he's currently locked into that mindset.

SAM: Pike, should I do something or no?

ASHLEY: Well, I think we could both do something,
but I want Grog to fight this.

SAM: Why don't I help him fight it? I will cast
Suggestion on Grog, using my last level two spell.

And suggest that he think long and hard about
maybe fighting back against this sword. One more time.

ASHLEY: Then if it doesn't work, I have an idea.

MATT: All right. So bringing up Suggestion here,
make a wisdom saving throw, Grog.

TRAVIS: 11.

MATT: 11. Okay. As the suggestion creeps through
your mind, the familiar voice of Scanlan through

your ears gives you just enough moment of pause to
allow you an additional saving throw against the

influence.

TRAVIS: Maybe I'll take mine-- is it a wisdom
saving throw?

MATT: Yes, it is.

TRAVIS: That's a five.

TALIESIN: My god, we're saved.

MATT: The suggestion does not seem to take hold
and he's now dragged Pike almost back to the

entryway of the Platinum Sanctuary and the
Highbearer is still looking a bit confused.

SAM: He's made his choice.

ASHLEY: No! Grog. Stop just one moment.

TRAVIS: Okay. I stop.

ASHLEY: And I look him in the eyes, I cast Greater
Restoration. Still have another slot left, will

that work?

MATT: I would like you to go ahead and make a
wisdom check. This is contested against the wisdom

of the sword.

ASHLEY: I'm casting it at 7th-level because that's
all I have left.

MATT: You know what, it's not going to have much
of an effect on this really, unfortunately. But

the spell's cast. So roll a d20 and add your
wisdom modifier.

MARISHA: You're smarter than a sword!

ASHLEY: Do I get an advantage?

MATT: Unfortunately, no in the circumstance. Just
roll a d20 and add your wisdom modifier, which I

believe is a five?

ASHLEY: I have. Yeah, it's five. So nine.

MARISHA and SAM: Oh!

MATT: Well, (laughs).

ASHLEY: You die.

MATT: Yeah, you actually die. No.
That's not worth it. It's fine.

SAM: Vax comes back and kills you.

MATT: Yeah. I rolled a seven and he has a wisdom
modifier of plus one.

LAURA: Oh shit!

MARISHA: Oh my god, you did it!

MATT: Like I legitimately-- that's pretty stupid.

TALIESIN: Did you use my die?

MATT: No, I did not use your die. I used my purple
one. I'm saving yours for the next campaign. So as

the strength of wills between the cleric and the
sword begin to combat, the warmth of Pike's

friendship and the force of Sarenrae's guidance
washes through your body and the cold steel of the

sword begins to warm to the touch. And for a brief
minute, it gets so warm it's hot. It burns your

fingertips and you instinctively throw the blade
to the ground. It clatters and slides about 15

feet from you, spiralling and sparking across the
marble floor. The Highbearer's foot catches it in

place. He leans forward. "Now I'm certainly
curious."

TRAVIS: (deep breath) It is the Sword of Kas.

MATT: You watch as the color begins to somewhat
return to Grog's face, his eyes returning to their

natural pigment. The sallow, sunken features of
his body begin to fill out once more, the

influence of the blade having left his psyche and
physicality.

ASHLEY: Oh. You're back to light gray again. You
look great.

TRAVIS: I'm feeling so achy. What happened?
Whew!

ASHLEY: You made a decision and I felt it was the
right thing to do.

TRAVIS: Yeah. We kept the sword, right?

ASHLEY: Yeah, it's there.

SAM: They're holding it for you.

TRAVIS: Oh. Okay.

MATT: At this point, you can see two of the other
Scalebearer guardians have flanked the sides of

the Highbearer. As he removes his foot from the
blade and steps back, they both carefully lift it

with a gauntlet and present it before him and he
glances down. "So you say this blade aided you?"

TRAVIS: Yes. That blade, careful with it, very
powerful. He is bent on the destruction of one thing

and one thing only. Vecna.

MATT: "Good to know. We'll keep this within our
vaults in case the day or time arises."

TRAVIS: Wait! I have something else. Then I show
the hand of Arkhan.

MATT: "Yes?" It flops limply in your grasp.

TRAVIS: Oh! The person that owned this hand--
okay, stay with me. Chopped this off and took

Vecna's hand and stuck it on and then this got
left over. So this is not his hand anymore and the

one that he does have is Vecna's. So if you use
your noodle, you can use this to trace him.

MATT: "There are limitations to the use of such
objects. It may be of some aid to us, but the

"knowledge of this individual is far more
important. However, we will accept this thing."

And he ushers his hand forward and another servant
comes forward and retrieves the hand from you and

folds the fingers up and places it within a small
pillow. Backs away.

ASHLEY: I think that was a great idea.

TRAVIS: Yeah, right? It was pretty smart.

ASHLEY: Yes, it was very smart.

MATT: "What was the name of this? This current
wielder of the Hand of Vecna."

TRAVIS: Arkin. Arkeen?

SAM: Arkhan.

TRAVIS: Arkhan. Arkhan the Fool. The Cruel. The--

SAM: Misguided.

MATT: "Arkhan the Misguided?"

TRAVIS: Don't underestimate him. He's really buff
and devious.

SAM: And he's got another hand that he could chop
off too. One in reserve.

MATT: "Very well. So we'll begin to do research
and seek out this Arkhan the Cruel?"

TRAVIS: Cool. Yeah, he was pretty cool. He was
pretty cool.

SAM: I was fighting a god. I didn't really catch
his name.

TRAVIS: Well see, don't hurt him. He actually
helped us defeat Vecna. He pulled a tricksy-doodle

and took the hand.

MATT: "I would do whatever it takes to not trust
individuals who would steal such an artifact with

"their own means."

TRAVIS: Sure.

MATT: "We'll find this individual. Rest assured.
The will of Bahamut turned on him now, I doubt

"he'll find a place to hide. Thank you very much."

TRAVIS: Yep. Beep beep. All right, Pike, shall we away?

ASHLEY: We shall away.

TRAVIS: Scanlan, shall we away?

SAM: Away we shall.

TRAVIS: Away we-- oui oui?

ASHLEY and SAM: Oui oui!

SAM, TRAVIS, and ASHLEY: Bidet.

MATT: "Bidet." As you exit the Sanctuary, you meet
up with the rest of your friends that are still

taking their quiet moments of reflection on the
exterior platform on the outside of the Sanctuary

overlooking the eastern side of Vasselheim.

ASHLEY: How do you feel?

TRAVIS: I feel good. I feel like pursuing Vecna
was something that we all did together and I feel

like whatever we do now is new and I felt like I
was going to have to do that on my own and I don't

want to do that.

LAURA: Grog, you wouldn't have to do anything on
your own.

TRAVIS: That's good to know.

LAURA: Yeah. We're in this together.

SAM: I've got a thing, actually, I've got to get to.

LAURA: Can I walk over to Percy? Are you still over
by yourself?

TALIESIN: Well, yeah. I'll take care of something.
I'm sitting in a corner and I'm staring into the

reflection of my sword. And I'm gently tapping the
contract in my pocket. And I'm going to say,

Ipkesh.

LAURA: No. I'm going to sit down next to you.

TALIESIN: You're too late. You've been doing a
thing. Could you bring him back? Would it, the

thing that you gave me, bring him back?

MATT: There's no answer.

TALIESIN: Hmm. Nothing at all. All right.

LAURA: Now I'm going to sit down next to you. How
are you?

TALIESIN: I have no idea. I think I really miss my
family. I think I miss my sisters and my parents.

I think I was going to be a clockmaker once. I
haven't thought about that. There was a moment. Do

you remember when we met?

LAURA: I do.

TALIESIN: I, for a brief time, thought that I had
died within that prison and I was having a fever

dream from starvation and this was what that felt
like, was my mind making stories of friends and

adventures and these things I would never do
because I was a coward and fool. I miss my family

so much and I've done some terrible things. I gave
Grog that sword.

LAURA: You did.

TALIESIN: It didn't feel real.

LAURA: Now it does.

TALIESIN: I don't know. This is new. I'm sorry.

LAURA: What were you going to do? Are you going to
fight the Raven Queen for me?

TALIESIN: Many years ago, I went to make a deal
with her and she told me that I was broken and

that I had always been broken. Part of me was
going to save your brother and really, I just

wanted to prove it to her. I wanted to hurt her
for hurting me.

LAURA: I think we're all broken, Percy.

TALIESIN: I am so tired of hurting people.

LAURA: You don't have to hurt anyone anymore.

TALIESIN: I love you very much.

LAURA: I love you.

TALIESIN: This has been a terrible day.

LAURA: It's horrible!

TALIESIN: Where's Kiki? Where's Scanlan? I think I
owe him an apology. Oh god, I owe Grog an apology.

Maybe I'll not apologize to Grog. That sounds like
a really terrible idea.

LAURA: Darling.

TALIESIN: Yes?

LAURA: You're a good person and you're not broken
anymore. All right? We'll filling each other's

gaps. We'll be the glue.

TALIESIN: Thank you.

LAURA: And don't do anything crazy anymore. No
deals with Raven Queens, all right? Let's not

fight any more gods.

TALIESIN: I was going to say let's destroy
the one in Whitestone. Maybe we could seal it up,

leave it because you know, but--

LAURA: I want to see if I can talk to him
through it. Is that stupid?

TALIESIN: How would I know? Seems worth a shot.
I'm too tired to be angry.

LAURA: We did a thing today. A pretty big thing.

TALIESIN: Was that today? It legitimately feels
like a week ago at this point.

(laughter)

TALIESIN: It's been a long day. Yeah, we'll
rejoin. Sorry about Manners. That was rude.

SAM: Are you apologizing for something?

TALIESIN: Yes.

SAM: That's stupid.

TALIESIN: I know.

SAM: I never said sorry for leaving!

TALIESIN: Yeah, but you're you. You don't have to
apologize, we just assume.

SAM: Well, I'm sorry. Sorry I left.

TALIESIN: I will not accept it so that when you
come to your senses later, you don't feel like

you've compromised. But thank you.

(laughter)

SAM: That's fair.

TRAVIS: You handing out apologies?

TALIESIN: No. Yes. Sorry about the skull.

MARISHA: Oh. I'm pretty sure you just handed out
an apology after you just said you weren't going

to hand out an apology.

TALIESIN: I'm a human. I'm made of contradictions.
You people wouldn't understand.

MARISHA: I think Percy is a walking
contradiction.

TRAVIS: I will consider accepting your apology if
you tell me whatever happened to it.

TALIESIN: (sighs) Oh my god. I legitimately don't
remember.

MARISHA: I thought-- wait, we--

MATT: At that point, two hands drape around the
side of Grog's shoulder up top and Vex as the long

golden braids down the arms of Allura Vysoren
says, "My friend Grog, best not to worry about it.

"Wherever it is, it's beyond our grasp now."

TRAVIS: Okay, Allura.

(laughter)

MARISHA: Did you just sitcom mug? "Okay, Allura!"

(laughter)

MATT: If we could've freeze-framed and rolled credits
on that to end the campaign, I would have been

happy. (laughs) Allura takes her hands back, then
reaches over and musses up the side of Pike's

hair. (sighs) "We've been through quite a bit
together, haven't we?"

LAURA: So much.

MATT: "Lot of ups and downs."

MARISHA: You were quite an inspiration, Allura. I
hope you know. You inspired me quite a lot.

MATT: "I'm only doing what everybody else is doing
in this world: make it up as you go along."

MARISHA: We know a lot about that. Allura, is
Vasselheim going to be looking for members to join

the council?

MATT: "Vasselheim? What do you mean? Vasselheim is
mostly a religious council, if you know."

MARISHA: Totally.

MATT: "I could put in a word, but I didn't 
consider this really your type of--"

MARISHA: No, right.

MATT: "Here?"

SAM: She's asking for somebody else, I'm pretty
sure she wasn't asking for her.

MARISHA: I actually was, actually.

MATT: "Oh. I can inquire."

MARISHA: I was thinking Pike, but I don't know--

MATT: "If I do recall, you have a temple here. One
that you pretty much built."

TALIESIN: How is that temple right now?

MATT: "That's a very good question. Pike? Would
you like to go see your temple?"

ASHLEY: I would like to go see my temple.

MATT: "Very well." She waves her fingers a bit and
casts Fly on all of you.

LAURA: Oh shit, on everybody?!

MATT: On a high enough level, you can.

ASHLEY: Whoa.

TRAVIS: Pike! Go upside down! (wookiee growl)

LAURA: That was the best wookiee noise you've ever
made, babe!

TALIESIN: That was a really good wookiee noise.

TRAVIS: (mediocre wookiee growl)

MATT: Retracted immediately. As she was here
helping defend, she didn't waste her 8th-level

slot, she is able to get you guys all flying for
the moment and you all coast. As she finishes

casting the spell, you could see some of the
nearby wardens of the Platinum Sanctuary go,

"Um--" "I know it's arcane, shut up. It's fine."
You all take off the steps and begin to glide down

over to the city, and there you can already see
people are coming out of their homes. Exactly. So

eventually, you find your way north to the
Quadroads, towards the base of the Heaven Stair

Mountain, where the temple resides. The temple
looks like it's sustained a little bit of damage. It

looks like a portion of the upper floor of the
three-tier tower-- Colosseum-esque, but it does

taper a bit towards the top. The top part has
partially fallen in and it looks like it's seen wear

and tear, but it doesn't look like it's been
destroyed or anything. As you come up to the

temple, you can already see there are refugees of
homes that were destroyed from the incursion of

the Braving Grounds that are being gathered in and
the temple's filled with people. On the outside,

you see Gesyra, the older woman who helped you
found the temple and build it. As she

approaches, she's now one of the Priests of
Rebirth and has been working with you for some

time and turns and sees your face. You can see her
graying hair, which is bunned up very tightly in

the back. She has her spectacles and she has the
long robes of blue and gold. She sees you. "My

"Pike!" She rushes up and gives you a hug. She's
much bigger than you, being a human, but her

posture puts her almost on your level. "I'm so
glad you're safe."

ASHLEY: It's so wonderful to see your face.

MATT: "We've housed who we can. We're a bit at
capacity at the moment."

ASHLEY: Okay. Well, it looks a bit better than I
thought it would.

MATT: "We did our best to defend. Is it done?"

ASHLEY: It's done.

MATT: You see her eyes crack at that moment and
tears begin to flow. She smiles. "I knew you could

"do it."

ASHLEY: Well, we all did.

MATT: She looks around at the rest of you, pats
you on the head for a minute and pulls away and

goes, "You get to wear the greatest outfits, don't
you?"

ASHLEY: (giggles)

MATT: "Well, anything you need, food, we have room
for a few more."

SAM: I would suggest that we-- there's bars here,
right? In Vasselheim? They drink, don't they?

MATT: Oh, yeah. There's bars here.

MARISHA: Maybe they do a dry city after a certain
time.

MATT: Are you kidding me? Religion and alcohol go
together perfectly. That's a time-honored

tradition!

SAM: Why don't we go find a tavern somewhere and
let these people pick up the pieces, and give them

their space?

MARISHA: Do you need any type of water, or
anything we can immediately assist you with?

MATT: "Clean water would be wonderful."

MARISHA: Do you have somewhere to put it?

MATT: "Just a moment!" And she goes inside for a
moment and calls out, four of the other lower

acolytes of Sarenrae's temple, and they all have
various buckets and reservoirs--

MARISHA: I burn as many Create Water spells as it
takes to fill them up.

MATT: They bring you inside, where there's the
large statue of Sarenrae, where you had your first

vision that called you to come find her. And there
is a fountain as part of that and a reservoir in

the bottom that has currently been mostly emptied
to facilitate everyone here who needed water or to

clean wounds. You help fill that and you very,
very quickly manage to get the temple back to an

easily sustainable level.

TALIESIN: Pike?

ASHLEY: Yes?

TALIESIN: I could use your assistance. I don't
think I should have this, and I need this to be

taken away from me before I do something foolish.
And I hand Pike my contract.

ASHLEY: (sighs) I take it. Percy, what is this?

TALIESIN: This, I thought, was proof that I was in
control of myself. But it's just a terrible thing

waiting to happen.

SAM: Ashley, I just texted you the contract.

TALIESIN: Thank you. How do you have it on
autosave?! Do you just have it?

SAM: Yeah.

ASHLEY: I mean, I somewhat know what it is.

TALIESIN: I don't think it can be destroyed. But
maybe it can be put far away.

ASHLEY: I will keep this, at the very least, very
far from you.

TALIESIN: I have every faith in you. Thank you. I
think I'm done with that.

SAM: Pike, I have a porno book that I really think
I shouldn't have anymore. Can I give it to you to

take it away--

TALIESIN: I'll take it away!

SAM: Oh, you'll take it? Okay.

TRAVIS: I would like to bid on it, as well. Yeah,
I have some money still--

SAM: It's not great.

TALIESIN: Can you text it to us actually?

ASHLEY: Could you text me the book?

SAM: Sure.

TALIESIN: That's a three jpeg, man. Sorry.

MATT: So you guys go off to find a tavern and
drink together?

TRAVIS: Yeah.

SAM: Yeah. We need to go have some toasts to Vax.

LAURA and MARISHA: Yeah.

MATT: All right.

LAURA: You said Allura took Velora?

MATT: Yeah. Well, at this point, she's probably
still carrying her with you.

LAURA: Oh, okay. I thought you said Allura took
her away. Okay.

MATT: Yeah, because Allura took her off of you--
You know what? No, she's probably being tended to

at the Platinum Sanctuary at the moment, seeing to
her wounds.

LAURA: Did I just leave her? I feel weird just
leaving her.

MARISHA: She'll be fine. She'll be safe.

TRAVIS: She's in some pretty solid hands.

LAURA: I'll run back and talk to her.

MATT: Okay. So you head back into the Sanctuary
and retrieve her.

LAURA: I'm going to make sure her wounds were
tended because she was pretty busted up.

MATT: She was. Thankfully, there are a number of
clerics and healers available that can take a

moment away from the wounded of the battle to deal
with a little girl. And when you come to her,

she's still a bit battered and bruised. But she's
all right.

LAURA: Is there anyone who can send me to
Syngorn?

TALIESIN: Why doesn't she stay with us for a
while?

MATT: You're asking this of anybody at the
temple?

LAURA: Do you think we should--

SAM: We can take a day.

TALIESIN: I think maybe a little time spent in our
company, as opposed to your father's company,

would not be the worst idea.

LAURA: Maybe a message of Sending. Can anyone do
that? Pike? Do you have the message of Sending?

SAM: To whom?

LAURA: To my father.

MARISHA: To let him know that his daughter is
still alive.

ASHLEY: I don't have it with me, but I--

LAURA: Okay. Allura, you've done it before.

MATT: "Yes."

LAURA: Could you send something to my father?

MATT: "I could. I could also bring her there, if
you'd like."

LAURA: No. Velora, would you want to go home right
now?

MATT: Right now she's holding onto your neck a
bit. She looks at you. "I miss you."

LAURA: I miss you too.

MATT: "Can I stay a bit longer?"

LAURA: Okay.

MATT: "Okay."

TALIESIN: I think that's a great idea.

LAURA: I think so too. Allura, will you say that
Velora is safe, and that I'll be paying a visit

very soon to return her?

MATT: "I believe that," and for a moment she looks
just beyond your eyes, squints, "he's aware."

LAURA: Thank you.

MATT: "So to drinks?"

LAURA and TALIESIN: To drinks.

MATT: "I don't really drink. But after a day like
today, I think I need one."

TRAVIS: Yeah!

LAURA: Apple juice for you, little one!

MATT: She giggles in your ear. All right.

LAURA: I'm bringing my sister to a bar.

SAM: Your nearly dead sister.

MARISHA: Yeah. She's going to have to be
introduced at some point.

MATT: Yeah. Allura takes a moment and squints her
eyes for a second, apparently Sending another

message, and then nodding. She leads you guys
towards the Quadroads, and finds a pub called The

Quarry's End. And it's not too far from Sarenrae's
temple, which is why she chose it, and it looks to

be like it was near a quarry that was built into
the mountain that either dried up or was closed

down for some reason, and then a tavern was opened
instead as a means of still making money. It's

super dive-y, it smells of stained wood and
spilled wine. It's musty and perfect. And as you

all come in, it's mostly empty, as people are
still in the process of trying to figure things

out. The few that are in there appear to be
wounded soldiers that, as opposed to getting

medical help, are in the process of drinking
themselves into a numb state. But you find a

table, you sit down, one of the barmaids comes up
to you, goes: "Drinking away the fray, are you?"

TALIESIN: I put, like, 20 gold on the table.

MATT: "Oh!"

TALIESIN: We will take the cheapest, worst beer
you have, and a round for everyone in the bar.

MATT: "But of course, sir! My pleasure!" Takes the
coin.

TALIESIN: If everyone's all right with that.

LAURA: Of course, dear.

TRAVIS: Can I also start pulling out the remaining
eight expensive-ass bottles of wine from the bag

of holding?

MARISHA: Hell yeah! Drunk as shit! Now's the
time!

MATT: Within moments, your table is covered in
terrible beer and really expensive wine!

TRAVIS: Expensive-ass!

LAURA: That's what you wrote down, too.

TRAVIS: Expensive-ass bottles of wine.

MATT: You pull two tables together and you guys
are in the process-- You're a fair bit into your

cups, and then the somewhat ajar door on the
exterior slams open as the light filters in from

the outside, and there you see standing the
general half-height of an armored halfling,

partially bloodied, armor dented as shit.

TRAVIS and MARISHA: Kima!

MATT: Kima, as she walks in, sauntering in, with
her blade being sheathed in the back

of her giant scabbard, her Holy Avenger. "Got your
message, honey! Not going to pass up a drink after a

"day like this!" (cracking) "Ow, ow, ow!" She comes
and sits down next to Allura and puts her arm

around her real fast. "This is new!" and points to
the drink in front of Allura.

TALIESIN: It's a special occasion.

MARISHA: We're bad influences.

TRAVIS: Yeah. Desperate times and all that.

MATT: "Good. I guess that's why we're friends."

MARISHA: I see you're working the late shift.

MATT: "Well, you know. When there's streets
crawling with skeletons, I got to be there."

TALIESIN: Been having a good time, then?

MATT: "Oh, it's been amazing! It's been terrible!
Terrible. But amazing!"

MARISHA: Well, we frontloaded our hours.

LAURA: Can we have another cup?

MATT: "Yeah!" The barmaid comes by, gets another
cup, and leaves you guys all to drink and swap stories.

TALIESIN: That thing that I was bugging you
about?

MARISHA: Which one? You bug me about a lot of
things.

TALIESIN: Well, that's fair. Now that I have a bit
of alcohol in me.

MARISHA: Yeah, and you ask me after I have a bit
of alcohol in me. And I scry on Cassandra.

MATT: Okay.

TALIESIN: Oh god, he flipped a page. I hate that.

MATT: You take a long, deep sip of your drink and
then close your eyes as you complete the scrying

ritual you've half-scrawled on the dark wood wall
on the side of the tavern. Your vision goes

cloudy, and you feel yourself being transitioned
rapidly through wind and cloud as the temperature

of your atmosphere begins to drop, and there, you
begin to break cloud cover to look down upon

Whitestone.

Your vision jumps once more to the exterior of the
castle, jumps once more, and there you see, lying

in bed, covers pulled up to her chest, with at
least three different servants and one medical

personnel there at her side, bag open, tending to
her wounds. She's asleep, but she's breathing.

MARISHA: Looks like she's been tended to like a
proper de Rolo.

LAURA: Did you see Kaylie and Gilmore?

MARISHA: Did I see Kaylie and Gilmore?

MATT: Not in the room, no.

TALIESIN: She made it back to Whitestone. One
would assume that's how she got there.

MARISHA: She was not doing well. Gilmore was the
most able-bodied. I'm assuming he got her there. I hope.

TALIESIN: I'm sure. I have faith.

MARISHA: I'll scry on the rest of them tomorrow.

TALIESIN: I'm drunk. Don't get used to it.

MARISHA and TALIESIN: Faithless until the end.

MARISHA: Thank you, Percy.

PERCY: Thank you, Keyleth.

MARISHA: You taught me just the right amount of
how to be a shithead. Just enough.

SAM: We should toast to Vax'ildan, our fallen
member.

MATT: At which point, Kima goes, "Yeah, where is
that asshole, anyway?"

SAM: He's really stealthy.

MATT: "Ain't that the truth. All right." She grabs
her cup.

LAURA: Apple juice.

MATT: She's holding a cup.

SAM: What do you have, Ashley?

ASHLEY: I have a cup, and it's a vintage cup. I
don't need to talk about this.

(laughter)

MATT: Glasses raised, and at this point as the
glasses are raised, you can hear whispers off to

the side. You glance over, and you can see one of
the nearby tables, which is filled with four

Bastions who had been drinking to the battle and
have now taken notice and seemingly recognized

who's at the table across the way. They're all
staring, and they all grab their glasses and raise

them, too.

LAURA: To Vax'ildan. He was the best of us.

MARISHA: The most selfless.

SAM: The most frequently naked.

MARISHA: Second to you.

TRAVIS: The most frustrating.

TALIESIN: The brightest and the darkest.

SAM: That's true. To Vax.

ALL: To Vax.

MATT: "So. What comes next?"

TRAVIS: What does come next?

MARISHA: (sighs) It's hard to think after a day
that feels like a week, like today.

LAURA: Syngorn and Whitestone, I would assume.

TALIESIN: Home for a bit, at least. And of course,
everybody is welcome, always.

MARISHA: I've got to get back to Zephrah.

SAM: Do we have to check on Greyskull Keep?

LAURA: In Emon?

SAM: I don't know.

LAURA: Someone should stay there.

TRAVIS: We left it as an outpost. I wouldn't mind
going back to Whitestone for a bit.

TALIESIN: I'll also say, for those of you,
especially. Grog, you have your freedoms, and if

you wanted to become lord of Greystone and have a
place of your own that you could invite us to, as

opposed to wandering.

MARISHA: Greyskull?

TALIESIN: Greyskull.

TRAVIS: (hesitant noises)

LAURA: Or you could just hang in Whitestone.

TRAVIS: I'll think about it. It seems like that
has responsibilities.

LAURA: The Grand Poobah has a lot of
responsibilities, too.

TRAVIS: I do. There is an updated tour.

SAM: We'll go to Whitestone and figure it out.
That's where Kaylie is, right? We assume.

LAURA: Potentially.

MARISHA: I don't think I can go back to Whitestone
with you.

LAURA: Why?

SAM: Oh, why? You've got to go back to your
people?

MARISHA: I have to go back to Zephrah.

TALIESIN: Well, I think we're going to need help
getting to Whitestone, and then I think it's going

to take at least a day for you to regain the power
to return to your people.

MARISHA: Bad influences, all of you. Assholes.

TALIESIN: We're not getting rid of you quite that
easily.

MARISHA: All right. One day.

TRAVIS: If you can bear it.

MARISHA: And then I want to not see your faces for
a bit.

SAM: Sure, that makes sense. Pikey-poo, where are
you going?

ASHLEY: Well, I'd like to come with you guys for a
little bit because frankly, I don't really want to

be alone for a while.

TALIESIN: I don't think any of us do.

TRAVIS: I pull her into the biggest hug.

ASHLEY: Oh, P-- oh, Grog.

TRAVIS: You almost called me your own name. It's
okay. You'll be fine.

ASHLEY: I was going to call you Poobah, but then I
wanted to say your real name.

MARISHA: We could go back to Whitestone whenever.
I've still got a little bit of juice left.

LAURA: You've got enough juice to get us to
Whitestone right now?

MARISHA: I do, believe it or fucking not.

TRAVIS: I don't. You gave us the option.

MARISHA: What?

TRAVIS: You said believe it or fucking not. I call
nope.

MARISHA: Oh, it was more of a rhetorical-- it's
like a trick or treat-- why do we still try to

explain things to him? I haven't learned.

ASHLEY: Because he's learning.

MATT: Kima's clasping her cup and goes, "I can
watch this all day."

TRAVIS: Thank you, Pike.

ASHLEY: He learns something new every day.

TALIESIN: How did Whitestone look?

MATT: It's blurred at a distance. Aside from the
specific target of your scrying, you don't get

much of a vision, just an idea of the blurry
exterior.

LAURA: Should we drunkenly walk to the tree?

SAM: Are we transporting tonight? Why don't we
chill for a night?

LAURA: Don't you want to see your daughter?

SAM: Well, of course, but I'm drunk and bloody.

MARISHA: We can drunkenly walk there and take our
time and enjoy the stars and we can-- oh!

Scanlan--

SAM: Did you have a drink?

MARISHA: Scanlan.

SAM: What can we do?

MARISHA: We can do little arcane cantrips when no
one's looking and break the rules a little bit. Of

Vasselheim. Just cantrips, though.

SAM: You're such a rebel.

MARISHA: I know.

TALIESIN: I forgot.

MARISHA: What?

TALIESIN: No, you're fine.

MARISHA: What?

TALIESIN: Nothing. You're fine. Love you very
much.

MARISHA: I've lost the love of my life today. I'm
allowed to be belligerent.

TALIESIN: You are.

TRAVIS: Are we throwing caution to the wind?

SAM: Sure.

TRAVIS: I do have something that might up the
party a little bit.

SAM: Okay, what is it?

TRAVIS: I reach into the bag of holding and I pull
out a little leather pouch.

MARISHA: Do you have that sandkheg shit?

LAURA: No.

TRAVIS: What?

SAM: What is that? What have you got?

TRAVIS: So I've got this little deck of cards and
every time someone pulls from it, great shit

happens.

ASHLEY: I'm in.

TRAVIS: One. Two. Scanlan?

SAM: I've seen this before, haven't I? I think I
was with you when you got the guy rich. Wasn't I?

MATT: No, he was on his own.

TRAVIS: He's the Lord of the Quadroads now.

SAM: I was with him when he did one of them,
though.

MATT: You're semi-aware that there's something
going on. Make an arcana check.

TALIESIN: Oh, this could go so badly.

SAM: 15.

MATT: 15. Something creeping in the back of your
mind, something you've learned, something you've

heard, really tells you that this is powerful and
chaotic.

SAM: I'll watch for now.

TRAVIS: You'll partake.

SAM: Probably.

TRAVIS: Three. Percy?

TALIESIN: I think I've had enough for one day.

SAM: If we're going to do that, we should go back
to Whitestone first.

TRAVIS: Why? This place is already fucked up.
Let's get it on. Keyleth?

MARISHA: I am drunk enough to where I'm not going
to stop it or argue against it, but I won't

partake, so that's pretty good for me.

TRAVIS: Why are you so resistant to gifts and
wonder? Magic?

MARISHA: Grog, you've had two weapons speak to
you--

TRAVIS: Don't be jelly.

LAURA: Nothing powerful comes without a price. We
saw that. We just saw that with the Raven Queen.

Power comes at a price. You think that wonderful
things are going to be pulled out of your hands

here, and there's going to be no consequences?

TRAVIS: Pretty much.

MARISHA: Grog, haven't we been through enough shit
to know nothing's free?

TRAVIS: What?

MARISHA: Fuck it.

TRAVIS: Here or Whitestone?

TALIESIN: Oh, definitely not at Whitestone.

TRAVIS: All right. Pike, you want one?

(laughter)

TALIESIN: I've always worried about the two of
you.

ASHLEY: Well, I think you should pick a card, and
we deal with one as of right now. And then maybe

I'll pick one later.

TRAVIS: Well, jeez, I thought we were all having
tequila shots and going crazy and taking pictures

and writing our name on the bathroom walls, but it
seems like everybody's lost their nerve. I put it

back in the bag of holding.

(laughter and groaning)

MATT: You're such an asshole!

TALIESIN: You're such a dick.

LAURA: Don't do it!

MARISHA: You insult our resolve and hold out on us
all at the same time?

TRAVIS: The night's still young.

ASHLEY: Ugh, just pick one!

MATT: All right.

SAM: We're traveling now? We're drunk!

MARISHA: Yeah!

TALIESIN: Let's drive a tree. It'll be fun.

MATT: You all wander outside of the tavern, find
your way over to the nearest tree that's

functional. It takes you a little bit, because a
lot of trees look thicker at a distance when

you're drunk than when you approach.

MARISHA: Yeah, no, this one won't work. No, this
won't work. Sorry.

TALIESIN: That's more of a shrub.

MARISHA: Sorry. Next one. That one looks good.

TALIESIN: Yes, that looks nice.

SAM: That's a young boy.

TALIESIN: Oh, yes.

MATT: Eventually, you find the tree that'll work,
which is interesting, because you have this

combination of people that are recognizing you as
Vox Machina, as the whispered saviors of the town

as you drunkenly stumble through the city streets,
naught but hours after sealing a recently ascended

god. It's strangely so perfect for you. As you
approach the tree that you find that'll work,

Allura has her arm over Kima. She's a lightweight.
"You go on ahead. We need to help here with the

"construction effort."

LAURA: You've got to get your construction on?

MATT: "No, we're just--" And then Kima goes,
"Yes!"

TRAVIS: (laughing) She doesn't handle that booze
very well.

MATT: "We'll see you soon. Travel safe, and thank
you."

SAM: Love you.

MATT: "Okay."

(laughter)

MATT: Kima drags her hand. Kima's drank far more,
but is sober. She can hold her liquor. "All right,

"thank you, guys!" And grabs her hand and pulls her
off, and they both wave bye as they step back into

the city.

You complete your spell, emerging from the
exterior of the Sun Tree. Back in Whitestone, the

comfort is here once more. It seems to be just
past dusk at this point.

MARISHA: (slurred) See? When you travel-- wait,
no. When you travel west to east, you gain time. See?

SAM: Yeah, you called it.

ASHLEY: Time travel.

MARISHA: (slurred) Happy hour is right now in
Whitestone. Just saying.

TALIESIN: Let's head home?

SAM: That works.

MARISHA: Okay. Heading home works.

MATT: You guys make your way to the castle. Food
is presented. Everyone's happy to see you back.

What do you want to do?

SAM: Now or forever?

MATT: Oh, we'll get to the forever bit in a
minute.

MARISHA: Cry myself to sleep?

SAM: I want to go see Kaylie, I guess, if she's
around. Are we hanging out together, or are we

breaking off?

LAURA: (quietly) Go see your daughter.

SAM: All right. I'm going to go see Kaylie.

MATT: Okay. Asking around a bit, it doesn't take
much to find Kaylie in your old room in

Whitestone, the one where you both left when you
first exited the group for a short time. She's in

there, bandaged up, and looks like she's taking a
dagger and throwing it into the wall, then walking

over and pulling it back out, sitting back on the
bed and throwing it, and it bounces off. The hilt

hits. She's like, "Fuck." Picks it back up and
doesn't notice you in the doorway. As she sits

back down, she looks over.

SAM: Hi.

MATT: "Hi."

SAM: You with a dagger in your hand's always a
little scary.

MATT: "Why, does it frighten you?"

SAM: Not any--

MATT: "Boo!"

SAM: (yelps) Okay, it frightens me a little.

MATT: She sheathes it on the side.

SAM: You okay?

MATT: "I've had better days. I'm all right."

SAM: Good.

MATT: "You're alive."

SAM: Surprisingly, yes. We won.

MATT: "I figured, if you're standing here before
me. That's good. Congratulations."

SAM: Thanks. I'm sorry that I had to go do that. I
had to.

MATT: "I'd be disappointed if you'd've came back
with me. More important things."

SAM: So what now? Do you want to go back to
Ank'Harel and keep criming?

MATT: You watch for a brief second her tough
exterior break, and you can see her eyes welling

up a little bit. She looks at the ground for a
minute, then looks back up at you. "I'm glad

"you're safe."

SAM: I'm so happy I got to see you again. I
thought for a second that when we said goodbye, it

was the last time.

MATT: "I didn't. I know you too well, at this
point. You're too much of a turd to die."

SAM: That's true. Only good people die.

MATT: "I'd like to go back to Ank'Harel. I don't
know if this whole Meat Man thing's for me

"anymore."

SAM: Yeah. No, I hear you. I don't know if it's
for me, either. It was fun.

MATT: "It was a lot of fun!"

SAM: It felt like we were killing time a little
bit. There's something else that we should do. I

don't know what. Maybe your thing won't be my
thing.

MATT: "Let's find someone to pass on the mantle
to, eh?"

SAM: That's a good idea.

MATT: "I think the Meat Man should be there, just
not us."

SAM: Yeah, that's a great idea. We'll train a
replacement.

MATT: "Still take a percentage. I mean, we worked
this hard!"

SAM: Passive income, right? It's the dream.

MATT: "It's the meat and potatoes of any good
business venture."

SAM: I should have thought of that. That's
amazing.

MATT: "That's why the daughter's an upgrade. After
that, I don't know. I hate to admit it, but--"

SAM: Did you finish school?

MATT: "No."

SAM: Do you want to?

MATT: "Yeah."

SAM: All right. Well, let's do that, then. You go
to school.

MATT: "I'm not really made for a lyceum. We can go
visit. I didn't expect you to recommend

"schooling!"

SAM: Listen, I've made a lot of mistakes in my
life, and I don't want you to make the same ones.

I love you, and I want to support you in whatever
you want to do, at this point. My time has come,

and I've done my thing, and my thing is done, and
now I want to help you do whatever it is that you

want to do. If that means I can be close to you,
then great, but if it doesn't, then I'll come

visit every once in a while. We made quite a bit
of money as the Meat Man.

MATT: "Aye, that we did."

SAM: And it's a good sum to get started.

MATT: "Would it be enough to pay for a right
top-end education so I can gloat over all the

"other kids that are raised by the various lords
and ladies of Emon? Become one of those privileged kids."

SAM: You can have the best education.

MATT: "That's what I want to do. I want to rub it
in their face."

SAM: All right. Education for spite. I like that.

MATT: "That sounds like a Shorthalt endeavor."

SAM: Sure. Whatever you need.

MATT: She stands up from the bed and walks over
and puts her hand on your shoulder in a pat, pat.

She pulls you into a hug and rests her head on
your shoulder and doesn't say anything.

SAM: You won't have to worry about me anymore.

MATT: "I'm going to worry about you every day."

SAM: Thank you. Thank you for coming into my
life.

MATT: "Thank you for being enough of a shitbag to
bring me into it."

SAM: I'm so happy. I made so many mistakes, but it
turns out that some of them weren't mistakes,

after all.

MATT: "I'm still young and unlearned. Time will
tell." She pulls you a little tighter in.

SAM: I'll snuggle and fall asleep in the room at
some point.

MATT: She smells the alcohol on your breath and
(groans). "Go lie there. I'm going to--" (groans)

She winces as her wound in her shoulder flares up.
"I need some fresh air. You go to sleep."

Exhaustion hits you, and you end up passing out at
the foot of the bed.

SAM: I'm in my room now?

MATT: Yeah, your old room.

LAURA: I'm going to tuck Velora into bed.

MATT: She's asleep by the time you get there.
Travel and everything has tuckered her out. You

tuck her in, put the blanket up.

LAURA: I tiptoe out of the room, and I find
Percy.

TALIESIN: I'll be in Cassandra's room.

LAURA: Percival?

TALIESIN: Yes?

LAURA: Could I talk to you for a moment?

TALIESIN: Of course.

LAURA: I completely understand if you want to stay
with Cassandra for the night. Would you mind not being

very comfortable, though? I was thinking of
camping in the woods.

TALIESIN: I think that sounds lovely, and you're
always better than comfortable. I had a thought,

actually. My god, it is hard surviving, isn't it?
Perhaps Keyleth could use a friend right now, and

I know that you carry one with you.

LAURA: Trinket?

TALIESIN: Just for a bit. I think she could use a
companion who's not going to apologize or give too

much sympathy.

LAURA: Of course. I send Trinket to Keyleth's
room.

MATT: As Trinket ascends the stairs, he looks back
over the shoulder. (questioning noise)

LAURA: She might cry a lot on you. All right,
dear?

MATT: Makes it up the stairs.

LAURA: It's going to be a lot harder to stay warm
out in the woods now.

TALIESIN: We'll figure something out. I grew up
here. I'm used to it.

LAURA: I wanted to remember how I used to camp
with Vax when we were kids.

TALIESIN: I'd like to see that.

LAURA: I guess we go out and set up a little
fire.

MATT: You guys make your way into the woods and
set up a camp for the evening's rest together.

Keyleth, are you in your room? The door (creaks)
and Trinket comes in and stares right at you.

(slurps) And licks up the side of your face. Your
hair sticks up for a minute.

MARISHA: Oh, buddy!

MATT: (bear noises) He leans in and plops down on
the ground, a giant beanbag mound of bear fur.

MARISHA: I cover Trinket with snot and tears as I
sob into his belly. First night alone, but with

Trinket.

TALIESIN: Best teddy bear ever.

MARISHA: Aware of the gesture. I cry.

MATT: Eventually the exhaustion and the alcohol
hits you, and you fall asleep, cuddled up in the

warm embrace of a very fantastic, recently
meteor-struck bear.

MARISHA: Drool and eyeliner and dirt.

MATT: Voice of the Tempest.

SAM: You were wearing eyeliner to our fight?

MARISHA: Remember, I charcoal war-painted?

SAM: That makes sense.

TRAVIS: Has everybody gone off?

MATT: Pike actually would still be around.

TRAVIS: I make my way sneakily outside.

MATT: Pike, what are you doing?

ASHLEY: There's a couple of things.

TALIESIN: There's a lovely tea rose garden in the
back.

SAM: She's letting Grog go first.

TRAVIS: Oh, really?

ASHLEY: If you wanted to go somewhere, sneak
away.

TRAVIS: Oh, you know, I was just gonna, um.

MATT: Who wants to go first? Pike? Grog? Who's
going first?

ASHLEY: Just for a little bit, for about an hour,
I want to go-- not deep into the woods where

Percy and Vex are, but somewhere that's pretty for
about an hour, and I'll make my way back.

MATT: As you're out there on your own,
contemplating quietly, ruminating on the day, a

faint howl finds the air, and stepping from the
shadows, you see a large gray wolf: Galdric, the

wolf that once belonged to the previous champion
of the Raven Queen, Purvan, who was given charge

over the forests on the outside. Saunters up to
you. He is a large wolf. You are a tiny gnome. He

steps up, sits next to you.

In this little break in the trees where you can
see the moon breaking through some of the passing

clouds over Whitestone. The night is so cold, you
can see your breath in the dark air through the

beams of moonlight that make it through the
canopy. As the wolf looks down at you, his intense

eyes making a full scan of what you are, there's a
recognition to his expression. The wolf looks back

up. (howls) And gives a long, baleful howl,
seemingly in remembrance and acknowledging that

one with a familiar path to his has found his way
back to the realm of the Raven Queen, as well.

ASHLEY: You are a beautiful creature. This might
be strange, but I give him a hug.

MATT: You hug Galdric. You're used to Trinket,
who's pretty well manicured. Galdric, not so much.

There are clusters of fur that are
dirt-encrusted.

TRAVIS: Shit in them.

MATT: Probably. He's not a full, ruined beast. He
lives in the forest. Smells of earth, dust, and

nature. Doesn't seem to react to your hug, but
allows it.

ASHLEY: I sit next to him.

MATT: He seems to share the space with you for the
time that you're in the forest. Not a strong

connection, but an acknowledgement, mainly
focusing on the moon before it passes through the

canopy and is no longer visible.

ASHLEY: I came out here to build a little
something, so I'm glad to have you out here for a

little bit. Thank you for staying with me.

MATT: The one ear to the side perks open to listen
to your statement, but the vision doesn't meet

yours, still focused in space as it fades. You get
the essence that the wolf acknowledges you.

ASHLEY: (sighs) I feel like Grog would be so happy
right now to be around a wolf. I give him a

scratch behind his ear.

MATT: He actually seems to enjoy it and gives into
it. One of the giant hind legs of the wolf--

ASHLEY: Oh, that's a good boy. I give out a little
howl.

MATT: He howls along with you. (howls)

ASHLEY: That was for my friend Vax.

MATT: The wolf gets up, circles you once, and
makes his way into the darkness of the forest once more.

ASHLEY: Goodbye. After a bit, I head back.

MATT: Okay. Grog?

TRAVIS: I wander outside, where I'm by myself. Do
I see anyone?

MATT: Make a perception check.

TRAVIS: Like it matters. Oh! 17.

MATT: Glancing about, there are some of the Pale
Guard around. Nobody that you would be looking

for, necessarily. You seem to be open to do as you
please.

SAM: Yeah.

TRAVIS: I pull a card.

SAM: Yes!

TALIESIN: I'm so proud of you.

MARISHA: Wait, where are you?

LAURA: Outside of the castle.

MARISHA: In the middle of fucking Whitestone?

MATT: Oh my god, Grog.

ASHLEY: Wait, as I'm walking back, do I see him at
all?

MATT: (chuckles) Out in front of the castle, out
in the courtyard area?

TRAVIS: Yeah. It's nighttime.

MATT: Make a perception check, Pike.

SAM: Make it good.

TALIESIN: Roll a natural 20.

ASHLEY: I rolled a natural 20.

MARISHA: Shut your mouth!

TRAVIS: I rolled a bunch of hit dice from our
short rest.

MATT: As you're quietly climbing up the walkway to
the base of Castle Whitestone--

ASHLEY: He's out in the open.

MATT: Yeah. You do. You look up and see Grog pull
a card from the deck.

ASHLEY: I stand and watch for a moment.

SAM: Oh, here's the deck.

LAURA: Oh my god. It is really happening. I can't
fucking believe--

MARISHA: Travis, pull good! Oh, please don't bring
pit fiends on our heads.

TRAVIS: I might have.

SAM: Negative two to everything.

MATT: Hold on. Deck of Many Things. All right, so.
Grog, what did you pull?

ASHLEY: Oh shit.

MATT: Void.

TALIESIN: Oh no!

MARISHA: That can't be good.

MATT: I'm sure it's fine.

LAURA: That's the worst one you could get!

SAM: The crew's laughing. Something's bad.
Something's very bad.

TRAVIS: I'm pretty sure--

LAURA: That is so bad!

TALIESIN: Oh my god! (laughs)

SAM: Wait, Pike saw him.

MATT: Pike.

SAM: You get a reaction.

MARISHA: Did our internet go?

(screaming and groaning)

MATT: Of all moments.

TALIESIN: (cackles) This is your doing!

MATT: While we're here, Grog, I'm going to read
you the card. This black card spells disaster.

Your soul is drawn from your body and contained in
an object in a place of the DM's choice. One or

more powerful beings guard the place. While your
soul is trapped in this way, your body is

incapacitated. A Wish spell can't restore your
soul, but the spell reveals the location of the

object that holds it. You draw no more cards.

SAM: Wait, read it again.

TRAVIS: I'll tell you. My soul is drawn from my
body. My body is incapacitated. It is placed

within an object that the DM chooses. A Wish spell
will tell you the location of the object, but will

not reverse the action.

SAM: Can anything reverse it?

MATT: Finding it and retrieving the object and
restoring the soul.

MARISHA: You fucking dick. You're a fucking dick!

LAURA: Well, the campaign goes on for another-- I
can't believe you just fucking did that.

SAM: Wait, she rolled.

LAURA: Ashley?

SAM: She rolled something. Oh, that was her 20
from before.

MATT: Looks like we may have her back. Hopefully,
because this is going to be-- oh my god.

MARISHA: It is bad!

SAM: Oh my god, Travis. Why would you do that?

MATT: Give me the card. Let this be a lesson to
everybody out there.

LAURA: Oh my god!

MARISHA: You said you weren't going to bring the Deck
of Many Things into the game, and then you did!

MATT: No regrets.

TALIESIN: Hashtag no regrets.

MATT: No "regerts" at all.

TALIESIN: Oh god, I can't even.

LAURA: Is Ashley texting?

TALIESIN: She's just yelling obscenities.

SAM: Her internet just died.

MARISHA: (mispronouncing) Worst fucking timing!
Internet has gone! Timing! Worst fucking timing!

TALIESIN: It's just obscenities. That's all it
is.

MATT: So Grog, as you draw the card from the deck,
your vision goes tunneled, dark, to a pinpoint: a

singular pinpoint of deep, ruby red. And that's
all. Your consciousness falls into a catatonic state.

SAM: Does she get a reaction or anything?

MATT: No.

MARISHA: She doesn't get shit? She just watches?

MATT: She sees it happen.

SAM: With her 20, she saw!

MATT: I know. She's aware.

SAM: She can't yell? She can't cast something?

MATT: No, because he pulled the card. It's not a
big (grunts). It's a (flip).

SAM: All right.

MATT: All righty, so.

MARISHA: I guess we'll add that to our to do list.

TALIESIN: I'd like to think that in the next
campaign, we're going to find you in a glass

coffin like Sleeping fucking Beauty.

MARISHA: Yeah.

TRAVIS: My body's still there.

SAM: She rolled a 17.

MARISHA: So Grog's body is still there--

MATT: He's catatonic until the soul's returned.

MARISHA: Catatonic.

MATT: To be fair, you've sealed Vecna. At level 19
and 20, this is not going to be an

earth-shattering experience.

MARISHA: Sure, it's just an annoyance.

MATT: And for the sake of the epilogue evening:
you guys, all planning to return to your various

lives to relax--

TRAVIS: I'm there catatonic with an open deck of
cards in my hand like this.

LIAM: You dingus!

MARISHA: Goddamn it!

TRAVIS: Somebody's going to find me.

SAM: To Grog! He was the dumbest of us all. He was
the dumb and the dumb.

TALIESIN: May he rest in bed sores for all
eternity.

MATT: You spend the next two weeks finding your
way through the halls of Pandemonium.

LAURA: I can't fucking believe that shit.

MARISHA: Wait, we spend two weeks?

SAM: The halls of Pandemonium?

MATT: Yes, where his soul is currently
encapsulated.

SAM: God, you asshole.

MARISHA: In what?

TRAVIS: What are the halls of Pandemonium?

MARISHA: I should be mourning right now, and I'm
hunting your stupid ass down!

TRAVIS: I'm keeping you occupied. I really did
this for you.

MATT: Pandemonium is a plane of madness: a great
mass of rock riddled with tunnels carved by

howling winds. It is cold, noisy, and dark, with
no natural light. Wind quickly extinguishes

nonmagical open flames such as torches and
campfires. It also makes conversation possible

only by yelling, and even then only at a maximum
distance of ten feet. Most of the plane's

inhabitants are creatures that were banished to
the plane with no hope of escape, and many of them

have been driven mad by the incessant winds or
forced to take shelter in places where the winds

die down until they sound like distant cries of
torment. So yeah, that's a fun time. It's a fun

adventure you guys go on to retrieve Grog's soul.

MARISHA: Great therapy lesson.

TRAVIS: We'll one-shot it later.

(laughter)

MARISHA: A healing trip.

SAM: It's a good side quest for the future
someday.

MATT: A good moment of, "Oh, we're not going to
get a rest." Hopefully, we'll get Ashley back, but

in the meantime, for the purposes of this, you
come back two weeks after, extremely angry. Grog,

as suddenly you're restored, and that tiny bead of
light fades back, and you're not outside anymore.

You're actually sitting in a reclined, cushioned
couch or chair of some kind in Castle Whitestone,

and all of your currently living friends are all
around you, looking very angry.

TRAVIS: Oh! It got me a chair.

LAURA: You fucking idiot.

TRAVIS: What?

LAURA: I cannot believe you did that.

TRAVIS: Did what?

MARISHA: Keyleth backhands him with the hand that
has the most rings on it, of power.

TRAVIS: Do I lose any hit points?

MARISHA: Probably not!

TRAVIS: What? What happened?

TALIESIN: You lost card privileges.

SAM: Yep. Hand them over.

TALIESIN: Oh, we already took the whole deck.

TRAVIS: Wait!

SAM: You may lose your belt for this, friend.

LAURA: Yeah. You're lucky we didn't shave your
beard. Yeah.

TRAVIS: I fucked up.

LAURA: You fucked up a lot.

SAM: Percy lost his arm rescuing you!

TRAVIS: I'm sorry.

TALIESIN: Are you?

TRAVIS: No.

(laughter)

TRAVIS: All right. I just thought, it did
fantastic things before! I don't know why it

doesn't like me so much.

TALIESIN: I don't think it was personal.

TRAVIS: Are you sure?

SAM: You've learned a lesson that we had to pay
for.

TRAVIS: All right. Sorry, guys. Sorry, Pike.

ASHLEY: Hello?

(laughter)

MATT: Look at that timing. I don't even know,
man.

SAM: Pike, can you hear us?

ASHLEY: My internet crashed at the worst fucking
time.

MARISHA: We can't even see you right now. You're a
silhouette on the screen, but we can hear you.

MATT: Pike, do you know what happened?

SAM: Yeah, I texted her the gist of what
happened.

ASHLEY: Okay, so you disappeared?

MATT: Grog's soul was trapped somewhere on the
plane of Pandemonium, and you guys had to take two

weeks and battle your way through a terrible plane
filled with wind and madness and creatures that

were banished there to never escape, eventually
battling some terrible beast that was guarding the

gem that contained his soul, returned, and he just
now woke up on the couch after restoring his

consciousness to his body, and has been slapped in
the face by Keyleth and told that he lost card

privileges.

TRAVIS: (tearfully) And Percy lost his arm!

ASHLEY: Oh no. Wait, what?!

SAM: Well, I may have been fibbing about that
part.

MARISHA: It might be a cheap joke.

TALIESIN: I might have lost my arm or I might be
hiding it behind my back. I'm not sure.

TRAVIS: So news flash, pro tip: the cards may be
dangerous.

TALIESIN: That's good to know.

ASHLEY: Okay. Maybe we leave it alone, then.

LAURA: Hey! Hi! Oh my god, that was craziness.

SAM: Nice. Any other things that we need to wrap
up for the evening?

TALIESIN: I pull a card from the deck.

SAM: No! I invoke the third contract.

MATT: I'll draw the card for you. Whichever one
smashes Whitestone.

TALIESIN: Suddenly, I lose everything.

MATT: Exactly. Oh my god, if you pull that card?

TALIESIN: Wouldn't that be amazing?

MATT: Don't you even.

LAURA: Penniless?

MATT: Everything he owns crumbles to dust.

TRAVIS: Everything.

MATT: All material wealth.

TALIESIN: It's why I don't pull cards!

MARISHA: How fucked would that be? So fucked.

SAM: Bring it in.

MATT: After this unexpected side venture, you all
say your goodbyes for the time being, scatter to

the various business you have to. Pike? Is there
anything else you wanted to do?

ASHLEY: Are we leaving?

MATT: Was there anything else this evening you
needed to situate? I was going to begin to

facilitate the epilogue.

SAM: What do you want to do?

ASHLEY: Can I grab Keyleth and Vex real quick?

MARISHA: Yeah. Girl power.

ASHLEY: I'll take them to the little spot where I
was in the woods.

LAURA: Two weeks ago.

(laughter)

TRAVIS: Sorry.

ASHLEY: Okay. So hey, I put something together.
It's dumb, but I made a bench and I put Vax's name

on it and I didn't want to make him a headstone
because that seems so final. Maybe he's still

around somewhere.

LAURA: He is.

ASHLEY: I also have these. I take out two of his
feathers that I grabbed. And I thought you could put

this with the feathers in your hair, Vex and
Keyleth, you could do something with this.

MARISHA: I think I have the perfect place for
this. Thank you.

LAURA: Thank you, Pike.

MARISHA: Thank you so much.

ASHLEY: I'm sure you could make it look a little
prettier than it is but--

MARISHA: I think it's perfect.

LAURA: It's absolutely perfect.

MARISHA: Where are we going to put it?

LAURA: Do you want it out in the woods?

ASHLEY: Maybe we should just leave it here.

LAURA: I like it.

MARISHA: I think he'd like that.

ASHLEY: I think he would too.

MARISHA: Something you have to stumble upon. It's
a little hidden.

LAURA: Yeah, it's stealthy!

MARISHA: Stealthy memorial!

ASHLEY: Okay. I'll let you guys stay. I just
wanted to do one more thing. Okay, I walk over to

where Scanlan is.

SAM: You mean two weeks ago or are we after--

MATT: No, this is after the random, unexpected
Pandemonium trip.

ASHLEY: Wait, is Grog on the trip or was that--

MATT: Well, no. You guys had to go there to find
his soul.

MARISHA: Grog was the reason for this season!

TRAVIS: To be fair, nothing really happened in
that mind.

MATT: That's true.

ASHLEY: Hey Scanlan!

SAM: Oi, Pike.

ASHLEY: How are you doing?

SAM: Now that Percy's arm has healed, I'm fine.

ASHLEY: Now that was bad, wasn't it?

SAM: Yeah. That bugbear came out of nowhere.

ASHLEY: The bugbear, you said?

SAM: Don't worry about it. I'm fine.

ASHLEY: I thought I forgot about that, maybe.
Listen, I'm glad you're alive.

SAM: Me too. Thanks for saving us all in that big
fight.

ASHLEY: Thank you for saving us all. I don't
really have a whole lot to say, I care for you a

lot and I wanted to let you know that.

SAM: I care for you, Pike. I've always loved you
since the moment I met you and I'm so happy that

we became friends as well.

ASHLEY: Me too.

SAM: Thank you for everything. Thank you for
putting up with me when I was a shit and I hope

that I've become more tolerable for you. After all
that we've been through, I was wondering if I

could ask you a question. I have a proposal for
you, if you don't mind. Well, now that everything

is safe again and back to normal, I was wondering
if I could take you on a date. To a restaurant or

something, then maybe if it goes well, we could go
on another date and that's it.

ASHLEY: Well, I actually was going to ask you the
same thing!

SAM: Well then. I'll let you do it! No, you do it!
I don't want to-- I take it back! I don't ask you

on a date!

MARISHA: Oh.

ASHLEY: Oh no.

SAM: Oh no! The internet! Can you hear me,
Ashley?

(groaning)

SAM: Denied.

TALIESIN: That was amazing!

LAURA, MATT, and SAM: That was a yes.

MARISHA: It's 2017. When will we will have better
Skype?

TALIESIN: That's the most Scanlan thing I could
have ever hoped for.

MATT: Remember, we're America. We have the worst
Internet in the world. Weirdly. Net neutrality. As

you guys gather, say your temporary goodbyes, knowing
that you're all still very in touch with each other,

knowing you care about each other, you begin to forge
whatever life looks like outside of perpetual

danger and the constant onslaught and struggle of
terrors and heroic necessity. Scanlan.

SAM: Oh! Sorry, I'm having a text romance with
Ashley Johnson right now.

MATT: Then I'll come back to you.

SAM: No. I'm ready. I can pull myself away from
Pike for a second.

MATT: What does Scanlan do in the next year? Next
five years, next ten years?

SAM: (clears throat) I have one prepared. Well,
she's not here, so I don't know but I wrote down--

ASHLEY: Can you hear me at all?

SAM: Oh god, I love this!

ASHLEY: Sorry, my Internet keeps going out.

TRAVIS: It's okay.

LAURA: Perfect timing, Ash.

MATT: It's all right. So assuming that you guys
went on a date. I'm discussing with Scanlan his

epilogue. What does he wish to do in the next
year, five and ten years?

SAM: My plan, what I wrote down, was find Kaylie,
make sure she's okay. Help Pike repair Vasselheim

or literally whatever she wants to do. Give all
money to Kaylie except for my platinum bracelets

with sapphires worth 2,500 gold that I send
anonymously to Sybil to make sure she's taken care

of. Long term, I would like to use my
Wish/Teleport to check on Kaylie every now and

then, at school or wherever she ends up.

MATT: She ends up at the Alabaster Lyceum in Emon,
which is one of the highest places of learning.

You have connections to the council and with the
money that you've given her, she lords over many

of the children of the various nobles.

TALIESIN: I would have recommended my tutor, but
of course, Vax slit his throat right about the

time you met him. He was a good tutor before
that.

SAM: I don't know but we'll wait until we get to
Ashley to find out how things are going with our

dating. Otherwise, in my free time, I would love
to use my time to write down the epic stories of

Vox Machina, from our meeting to saving the world
and everything in between. It will be difficult as

Scanlan is not an author, but he will rely on
guidance from Ioun herself and may even ask Sprigg

to be a copy-editor of sorts. The working title is
"In the Belly of Dragons: The Legend of Scanlan

"Shorthalt and Vox Machina". Working title.

TRAVIS: "In the Anus of Dragons," accurately.

SAM: And I hope to finish the book by the time I
turn 71.

TRAVIS: How old are you, exactly?

SAM: Oh, I'd be 70. When we started, I was 69.

LAURA: You were that young?

SAM: Yeah.

LAURA: You motherfucker!

TALIESIN: You're full of shit.

LAURA: Oh my god, I can't believe you were that
young.

TRAVIS: This whole time?

LAURA: I thought you were 300 years old. Jesus.

TALIESIN: Just full of shit.

SAM: I mean, that's about it. I think every once
in a while, I would maybe try to see if I could see

Vax or check in on him somehow, but I don't know
how other than to scry.

MATT: Which does not succeed, but you still send
your thoughts and wishes into the ether in hopes

that they find their way there. Okay.

MATT: So following off that, the story of Taryon
Darrington, which I have something written for

here based off what he did. Feel free to embellish
or change how you see fit. As the months pass, the

Darrington family has adjusted somewhat to a more
humble lifestyle, and their work of charity

within the city of Deastok and the neighboring
lands goes far to clean up the family name from

where it once was. While their influence was greatly
diminished and they're essentially a political

laughingstock, the message of their work still
strikes a chord in some of the more philanthropic

lords to the north and an alliance is made that
protects the Darrington name and interests from

the Myriad's ever wiley grasp for the time being.
Doty 3.0 now stands a shining golden color, gifted

the materials by a thankful ore baron whom
Taryon's Brigade of Adventurers saved from a

terrifying doppelgänger's plot. His troupe
continues to gain a small bit of notoriety in the

southern lands of the Dwendalian Empire, some
good, some humorous. His mother, Mariya, ever

cheering them on and making their tabards for
years before passing away peacefully, proud of her

boy. Her passing brings the rest of the family
closer together than it's ever been. And the

charitable efforts, surprisingly, of Howaardt now
encompass the Darrington Brigade as a

non-profit adventuring league. During a gambling run
in Port Demali to follow, Taryon stumbles upon a

now slightly more haggard Lawrence, now working as
a tanner. They immediately fell right back where

they left off and Lawrence cashed in his life as a
leather worker to join the Brigade alongside Taryon.

LAURA: Oh! That's so great!

SAM: I love it!

MATT: Anything you wish to add to that?

SAM: No, I had written a letter, but yours is much
better. Yeah, that's great.

LAURA: You wrote a letter?

SAM: I didn't know how much Matt was going to
put.

MATT: You could still read the letter.

SAM: I can read the end of the letter.

MATT: Okay.

MARISHA: Oh, Sam.

SAM: No, it's fine. You did good.

MATT: I didn't mean to step on anything
you did.

SAM: No, you did great. Much better.

MATT: Pike. Wilhand spends his twilight years
helping with small tasks around the emerging House

of the Everlight as it is built on the northern
edge of Westruun before age finally takes him in

peace amongst friends and family. The red-brick
house you grew up in and Grog grew along with you

for a while is left in your name and there you
know you have ever a homestead in Westruun in

memory of Wilhand and the friendships you forged.
What else would you like to do? What else do

you wish to achieve, Pike, as the years go on?
That could pertain to you and whatever

relationship with Scanlan you wish to embellish
on.

SAM: Should we roll for dating?

(laughter)

MATT: There's a chart somewhere in second
edition.

ASHLEY: I don't know what Grog's plans are, but I
do know if there were any adventuring to be had,

that her and Grog got to on some adventures
together.

TRAVIS: Yeah!

ASHLEY: And that he always has a place in my home
and I know I would love to-- I'm sure at this

point, fully rebuild the temple in Vasselheim. I
think things have gone well with Scanlan. Oh man,

I'm getting so emotional.

SAM: Like second-base well or even better than
that?

ASHLEY: Well, I think if we spend enough time
together, maybe, I don't know, can we see what

else life has for us together?

SAM: Absolutely.

ASHLEY: That doesn't have to mean anything more. I
know your life, what you like to do and I'll give

you freedom.

SAM: No, I think the most free I've ever been is
with you.

ASHLEY: I think there's no one I would rather
spend the rest of my days with, besides my pal Grog.

I think you get a two-for-one deal!

SAM: Sure. The weird family dynamic.

TRAVIS: You guys keep it quiet up there, please?

SAM: Weird roommates. Giant lower floor, tiny
upper floor.

LIAM: The ceiling is one inch above your head.

ASHLEY: I think at some point, I ask Scanlan for
his hand in marriage.

SAM: I mean, I would have to ask Wilhand for his
permission.

MATT: He passed away.

SAM: Well then, I would go leave some flowers at
the grave.

TRAVIS: You can ask me.

SAM: Oh, I will ask Grog for permission. Grog, as
the father figure in our weird household, I would

like to ask for your permission to wed your
not-daughter, Pike, who is much smarter and older

than you.

TRAVIS: You're a scoundrel. Do you have any
money?

SAM: I have this little black rock that you gave
me.

TRAVIS: That's worth literally nothing. How about
you give her this? And I take out the rare black

sapphire and put it in your hand.

SAM: That's pretty good.

TRAVIS: I'm fucking watching you, you understand?

SAM: I won't hurt her, I promise.

TRAVIS: Don't you slip up!

SAM: Nope, I know you could kill me in my sleep.

TRAVIS: I know. I usually put dead people in the
bag of holding, but there's always a first! Treat

her right.

SAM: Would you walk me down the aisle and by walk
me down the aisle, I mean carry me down the aisle?

(laughter)

TRAVIS: (high-pitched) Yes.

SAM: All right, let's have a group weird hug.

MATT: Aw. All righty. Anything else, Pike? Are you
happy with that?

SAM: Do I have to convert, Pike?

ASHLEY: What's that?

SAM: Do I have to convert? I'm an Iounian.

ASHLEY: No.

SAM: Okay, I'm good.

LAURA: You're Iounish?

ASHLEY: Sarenrae's very accepting of other gods.

SAM: Multi-faith ceremony. There you go.

MARISHA: 16 rites of passage.

MATT: Anything else, Pike?

ASHLEY: No.

MATT: Okay. All right, we'll leave it at that.
Percival. Vex'ahlia. Since your fates are rather

intertwined, I ask you both what are your plans,
what are your plots?

TALIESIN: I don't really think we should settle
down. That seems like a lot.

LAURA: (laughs)

TALIESIN: I think that I would like to start a
very complicated art project that's going to take

many years. I'm not going to work on it all the
time, day and night, but I'm going to invest some

time in this.

LAURA: Are you going to be in your shop a lot?

TALIESIN: No, I'm going to build a clocktower.
Like the one in Prague. I'm going to take many

years and it's going to sit at the front of the
castle so it will be outside and there will be

other people working on it. It will, as a proper
clock does, it will tell our story. Once a year,

everything will play out.

LAURA: Holy shit. That's good.

TALIESIN: And we may start inviting tinkering
artisans every year for Whitestone to come show

off things that are not necessarily useful, but to
show off fanciful inventions and things that are

beautiful.

LAURA: I love that idea.

TALIESIN: But let's not stay here too often.

(laughter)

LAURA: No, although we will have to stay here for
nine months every once in a while, because I think

we should rebuild the families that we've lost.

TALIESIN: There's a lot of names.

LAURA and TALIESIN: So many names.

MATT: How many names?

TALIESIN: So many ways to irritate your father.

LAURA: Five names.

TALIESIN: Oh, at the very least.

LAURA: Five.

MARISHA: That's a lot of names. Very long names.

LIAM: At least three sets of twins.

(laughter)

TALIESIN: Jesus.

LAURA: I definitely want to build a statue to
Trinket, the wonder bear.

MARISHA: The wonder bear.

SAM: Is he dead?

LAURA: No, Trinket's around.

SAM: Damn it.

LAURA: So centuries of people in Whitestone will
remember their mascot, Trinket.

MARISHA: He prevents forest fires.

(laughter)

TRAVIS: Ranger's hat.

LAURA: As the years pass, we should start a
festival and bears will be everywhere.

TALIESIN: There will be. Bears will be involved in
the festival. Obviously. Especially since the

clock tower is part of the festival and bears
feature heavily in it.

LAURA: Perfect.

TRAVIS: Only you can prevent forest fires.

TALIESIN: Only you can prevent the rise of Vecna.

(laughter)

LAURA: I was hoping to never stop attempting to
contact Vax through the temple of the Raven Queen.

MATT: You do notice that the raven population of
Whitestone seems to be perpetually seeing blooms

every year, far more than it used to.

LAURA: I cast Speak with Animals on them and I
constantly try to communicate with him.

MATT: Okay, I mean they all seem to be ravens
happy to live in this space, but it seems to be

more in essence the vicinity more than a specific
raven.

LAURA: Would you be all right if we increased the
Pelor temple here?

TALIESIN: Yes, I trust your judgment. It
is not for me, but I'm definitely all right

with anything that makes you happy.

LAURA: Thank you, darling.

TALIESIN: To be fair, you'd do it anyway.

LAURA: Pretty much, yeah.

TALIESIN: I help Cassandra as best I can. I think
at least once a year we get out and do something

irresponsible.

LAURA: Definitely.

TALIESIN: Maybe sometimes drag these kids out for
shenanigans.

MATT: Cassandra, as a note by the way. She's had a
few pretty difficult brushes with death and the

experiences definitely left a mark on her.
Within the year following the battle with Vecna,

she begins to remind you of yourself at a very
dark time. Recognizing that, you come to her and

help pull her from a dangerous edge of lashing out
at the place she's worked so hard to build. You

help her realize that this guilt she's been
holding as being a tool of manipulation the times

that she has been is not her fault and used
against the ones she loves. In that determination

to no longer be a tool for others to use, she asks
Vex to teach her and train her. To not just be the

lady beacon of Whitestone, but also join in as one
of its protectors.

LAURA: At least she had some good promise a long
time ago.

MATT: "That was some time, but I've seen what you
can do and, well, I deign to think of how dangerous

"the three of us would be if I could reach your
level."

LAURA: We'll make you strong, darling.

TALIESIN: We also insist that she leave Whitestone
at least once a year for a period of time to do

fuck all.

LAURA: Yeah, there's a beautiful place called
Dalen's Closet. I think you would love it.

TALIESIN: Let's not, well yes, there's, well.

MATT: Anything else? You guys happy with that?

TALIESIN: I'm content to make a clock tower and
make art and never make another weapon. I'm good.

MATT: Hmm, all right.

LAURA: I have "Make Whitestone the tits," written
in my notes of things that I want to do.

TALIESIN: It's got a bear. I'm imagining the bear
from Burning Man actually.

MARISHA: Penny Bear.

LAURA: Yeah, Penny Bear. I like it.

MATT: There you go. Grog.

TRAVIS: I'm so fascinated by Vasselheim. I have so
many interests that I feel it only proper to go

back and turn myself in to the authorities for
punching one of the guards in the face and take

whatever punishment they have for me.

MATT: All right, as you head back to the district
in which these incursions happened, you are

immediately recognized and much to their
completely taken aback reaction they bring you in

until somebody of the higher Bastions goes, "You
fools. This is one of Vox Machina. What's wrong

"with you?" "Oh I didn't--" And they all point up
at the large titan which is--

TRAVIS: Yeah, up top, that's where we were.

MATT: Which currently has been cleared out of any
cursed undead that they know of. It's a process

that takes a while, but it becomes a monument to
that battle and it becomes converted into a symbol

of hope for the city. For generations to come in
Vasselheim, that titan will stand there, lording

over the city, as a reminder of what transpired,
of what could have been lost, and what was saved

that day in memory of those that were lost. And as
you point up to that and they all realize, they

slowly remove your shackles.

TRAVIS: Oh, I'm free to go?

MATT: "Yes, sir. Thank you, thank you."

TRAVIS: That's unexpected. Could you point me in
the direction of a library?

MATT: "Sure, come with me." As you begin to walk
out you watch as a familiar figure steps up to

this portion of the Bastions' guard post, you see a
familiar merchant who rushes up and goes, "I was

"being summoned. They found the-- why's he walking
free?"

TRAVIS: Yes. You. You will come with me.

MATT: "Gentlemen, this is the man who punched me.
This is the man who ruined my business. I can--"

TRAVIS: Gentlemen, whose word are you going to
take? The savior of Vasselheim, or his new tutor?

MATT: "What?"

(laughter)

MATT: The guards go, "Cobalt Reserve library
station is down that way to the left. Hard to miss,

"big blue dome. You two work this out." And they
retract back into the guard post, leaving the two

of you in the street.

TRAVIS: Well, unless you have something better to
do, you could contribute to one of the greatest

people to ever pass through this city and help me
learn to read a little bit more. Would that be a

problem? I only have 8,000 gold to give you.

MATT: Make a persuasion check with advantage.

SAM: 8,000 gold.

TRAVIS: Natural 20.

(cheering)

MATT: (laughter) Didn't even need the advantage.
All right.

SAM: 8,000 gold.

MATT: "Well, that would certainly go far for
reparations for the damage you've caused to both

"my business, my person and my psyche."

(laughter)

MATT: "But I'm curious to see what this change of
heart is, so sure. But you're going to pay upfront."

TRAVIS: Yes, 8,000 gold.

MATT: "Holy shit."

TRAVIS: I could carry it if you want.

MATT: "We'll just make a quick stop over by my
shop, please."

TRAVIS: Fair enough.

MATT: And he drags it and it leaves this big heavy
groove in the ground as he pulls it along. "Nope,

"nope, it's good, I got it" (struggling noises) And
leads you to the Cobalt Reserve and for as long as

you'll have him he'll begin to tutor you.

TRAVIS: I'd like to learn to read a bit more. I'd
like to split some time in the temple of Kord.

MATT: Which takes a while to get rebuilt and you
probably help out a bit, too, Earthbreaker Groon,

who survived, though many of his--

TRAVIS: Oh, he did survive.

MATT: He did survive, yeah. He's made of hardier
stuff.

TRAVIS: I'd also like to bring Pike out every once
in a while and we give challengers a shot in the

Crucible, but mostly I'm trying to improve my mind
and looking for the next challenge.

MATT: I like it.

LIAM: Bring him up to eight intelligence.

LAURA: Yeah.

TRAVIS: Seven's a good start.

(laughter)

MATT: Perfect. Happy with that?

TRAVIS: Yeah.

MATT: Okay, then. Keyleth.

MARISHA: (sighs) Okay. Naturally, help Pike
rebuild Vasselheim in the most immediate of

circumstances. Eventually retire to Zephra. Go be
the actual leader of my people. Continue to get in

any type of frays that these people invite me on
as it reminds me of the good old days and keeps my

promise to protect this realm any time this realm
needs protecting. And I find Kerrick at some

point. Seek out Kerrick. Make sure he's okay.
Reconnect with him, have coffee, you know.

MATT: Yeah. He's a quick jaunt from Zephra,
thankfully. Westruun's not that far. That's one of

the closer large cities outside of Stillben.

MARISHA: Perfect. We're weekend buddies.

MATT: (laughs)

MARISHA: We go to wine country. And then I work on
the propagated sprig from the Sun Tree and

continue to build it out, hopefully on the ley
lines of the planet, and I take the feather that

Pike gave me from Vax and I embed it into the
trunk of the tree as well as any other relics from

the Raven Queen I can find. Care for ravens as
much as I can.

MATT: There is an uptick of ravens in the space of
Zephra as well. Not many, but more than there would

be, which is usually zero.

MARISHA: And from the branch of the Sun Tree
create my own raven tree of the Ashari. Take a

long, long, long, long, long time before I maybe
date again. Maybe. But eventually, hopefully,

after a long, long, long, long, long time sunset
into the tree and become a part of this realm.

MATT: That's a ways off for you, Ms. Archdruid.

MARISHA: Ways off.

MATT: But you begin those preparations.

MARISHA: But that's the plan.

MATT: Okay. Well you, Keyleth, who many only once
saw the naive druid girl have a level of respect

now that's carried with that mantle that you hold.
And the council of Tal'Dorei occasionally calls

upon your wisdom and guidance. The alliance
between the civilised and the natured world of the

lands irrevocably in Tal'Dorei bound to you at
this point, between you and the earth Ashari who

reside up in the Cliffkeep. Between occasional
jaunts to Emon and Whitestone, you find renewed

joy in the protection of the people there.

One cold Cuersaar the 13th, the tenth month of
the year, the cool summer dusk day closes and you

emerge from the quarters to find that the winds
come and blow through your hair. You step out to

the sound of children laughing as a dozen Ashari
kids, elf, dwarf, orc, many bloods and creeds rush

past as they play. It's a familiar sound. It's a
happy sound. You glance over at this village

you're protecting and the people that truly look
up to you as their leader, both not just from a

might source but as a guide. And you look to them
to teach you things every day as well. Looking

past as the sun begins to set, you see Korrin
standing by the cherry blossom at the edge of the

cliff near the amphitheatre where you had your
ceremony. In pinks and oranges and purples, the

sunset takes the sky. As you approach, he still
looks out. He's older, not too much older but older.

As he notices you approach, he looks over. "In all
my years, not a day passes where awe does not

"strike me at the beauty of this world." He looks
over towards the sunset. "Don't ever lose the

"memory of every face whose strength helped you
keep this light from fading. Every single face."

MARISHA: I don't think it's the faces that keep
this light from fading. I think it is what it is.

We're lucky to experience it, a few are lucky to
think it's beautiful. You taught me that. I don't

have to appreciate this. Especially not after what
I've seen. But I do.

MATT: "You need to."

MARISHA: Only because of what I've seen.

MATT: And you see a bit of heartbreak but he nods
his head and reaches out and takes you in, holds

you there on the cliff side, the winds just being
kept at bay. "I'm proud of you."

MARISHA: Thank you. It's all I ever wanted. It's
weird, once you reach a life goal and then realize

you have the rest of your life. I guess I just
find new goals. Sometimes it's hard being a

prodigy because then you just grow up to be a
regular adult.

MATT: He pulls you in tighter. "You'll always be
my girl. My little Keyleth."

MARISHA: Thanks, Dad.

MATT: "I love you."

MARISHA: I love you.

MATT: (sighs) "Anyway, I should get to seeing if
dinner preparations are being made. Looks to be a

"cold night." He tugs your hand and walks back,
leaves you there on the cliff side looking out. As

the sunlight slowly blinks away over the horizon,
leaving you with the purples and blues of the

night sky as the stars begin to glitter up, you
can hear a raven caw catch your ear as you glance

up into the branches of the cherry blossom tree.
There's just one raven.

MARISHA: Blow a kiss.

MATT: Flies down, lands on your shoulder. It's a
bigger raven than any you've seen before. You've

not seen this raven around.

MARISHA: Little scratch.

MATT: It leans into it.

And every day that raven comes to visit.

And that's where we're going to close the campaign.

SAM: What a nice story.

LAURA: Wow.

TRAVIS: Let's do it again.

(laughter)

TALIESIN: Oh my god.

MATT: Oh, wow. When this chapter closes, a whole
new one, a whole new one opens very soon. (sighs)

We'll be back in the new year with a new story to
tell and in the meantime we'll be playing games

here and mixing it up. Being silly. A few other
faces are going to take up the storytelling mantle

here. Me and Marisha have a wedding in a little
over a week.

MARISHA: Oh god. I had to get past this emotional
chapter so I could get through the next one.

(laughter)

MATT: But here we are at the end of this
near-five-year journey for us and near-three-year

journey with all of you and I just want to
appreciate having, honestly, some of the best

friends and players I could ever hope for to come
along on this journey, to trust me enough to build

this with you and to give back so much more than I
could have ever hoped.

LIAM: Thank you, Matt.

LAURA: Thank you.

MARISHA: Best DM ever.

MATT: You guys make it all easy and worthwhile.

LAURA: Oh fuck.

MATT: Love you guys.

LAURA: Shit. Yay!

MATT: And love you guys, each and every one of you
out there who've come with us on this journey;

new, old, for just a bit, or the entire length,
some of you multiple times. Thank you for joining

in on whatever this weird little magical, curious
experience has, and will continue to be. Promise

me you'll be good.

MARISHA: We'll be back.

LAURA: Yeah, we'll be back.

LIAM: We might look a little different, but we're
still going to be here.

MATT: Yep!

LAURA: That was a really pretty sendoff, Matt.
Thank you.

MARISHA: That was beautiful.

SAM: Thanks, Matt. That was really nice.

MATT: Love you, guys.

LAURA: Love you, Matthew.

MATT: Love you, guys. Have a wonderful night. Rest
well. And is it Thursday yet?