MATT: Hi, everyone! Welcome to Critical Role,
where a bunch of us nerdy-ass voice actors sit

around and play Dungeons and Dragons. Good job,
Sam. Thank you for your patience. Sorry we were

off last week. I'm doing much better, for those
who are worried about it. Happy to be back. Missed

you guys, and happy to be back at this table. So
yeah! It's been a couple of weeks. Let's go ahead

and get into some announcements real fast.
First off, tonight we have our fantastic

sponsor, Shadow of War!

TRAVIS: Shadow of War! Oh shit!

LAURA: Are we allowed to say what we did in it?

MATT: Yeah, a number of us actually worked in the
game. It comes out October 10th, actually.

SAM: And the full name of the game is Middle
Earth: Shadow of War, for all of those who are

looking for it alphabetically.

TRAVIS: The sequel to Middle Earth: Shadow of
Mordor.

SAM: Yes, and many of us were in the game yelling
our asses off. I played a little character known

as Orc 4. It was so much! I did 20 recording
sessions.

TRAVIS: I remember talking to you! I was
Commanding Orc 1.

SAM: Oh, nice.

MATT: I was Professional Orc 1, as well as the
Witch King of Angmar, the head of the Nazgul. I'm

pretty excited about that.

LAURA: Oh, nice!

LIAM: I was Troy Baker's fluffer. It's
prestigious.

SAM: You were in it, right? No?

LIAM: I'm in the first one.

SAM: Oh, what did you do in the first one?

LIAM: The thing I killed two weeks ago? That was
me.

SAM: Laura, were you in it?

LAURA: I am in it. I play the Blade of Galadriel.

LIAM: You play a sword?!

LAURA: I know! Get this, so I'm an assassin elf,
right? She's really cool. The DLC is going to be

about my character.

SAM: Do you have a number after your character?

LAURA: No, it's the only one. It's the coolest
thing! I don't think I ever told you this. When I

saw the character design? She's a combo of Vex and
Vax.

MATT: That's pretty great.

LAURA: No, seriously, though, she's an elf chick.
So she's an assassin. She's got dual-wielding, and

she wears feathery armor. It's so
freaking cool! So basically, it's like if

Vax was a girl, which is Vex.

TRAVIS: But with the sex appeal of Grog.

LAURA: Of course, baby.

MATT: I will never forget being at the Shadow of
War panel at Comic Con, and you mentioning the DLC

and then going, "Has that even been announced
yet?" And there was five seconds where I watched

Laura wither away into a shell of a human
before they went, "Oh, yeah, it's announced."

And you reverted.

LAURA: Even at this very moment, as I said it,
aftershocks. "Was I supposed to say that?"

LIAM: They scare you so bad that, even when it's
official, I'm like "I'm in the--"

TRAVIS: It's such a dope game. The Nemesis
system has been improved on from last time.

We can testify.

SAM: We're supposed to mention that on the 18th of
this month, Shadow of War will be debuting a brand

new live-action trailer that will take you near
the game? No! Right into the game. Soon we'll

need to choose whether to save or slay. During the
break tonight, they're going to be showing off

some awesome videos from the game. It drops
October 10th. Go buy it and try to pick out our

voices in the game as you slay us.

TRAVIS: And make us rise to the higher echelons of
the orc order.

MATT: By the way, if you haven't played the
previous game, the Nemesis system is one of the

coolest things I've played in many games in a long
time. I'm going to challenge you guys to try and

pick out not only who you voice orc-wise, but then
to try and make sure our orcs rise to the very

top. So you have nothing but generals from
Critical Role. I challenge you for this. Because

that would be pretty cool.

LIAM: I hope you like hearing the word ranger.

LIAM, TRAVIS, and LAURA: Ranger!

MATT: It's going to be fun. All right, thank you,
Shadow of War for being our sponsor tonight. We're

excited about the game, and hope you are, too.

Also, there's been a lot of insane weather
tragedies that have been in the news recently. I

want to make sure that everyone knows that if you
want to help support relief for both of the

hurricanes that have come and torn through the
U.S., we have a link to the Red Cross to donate

and be part of that. It'll be available in the
chat and throughout the rest of the game tonight,

so if you have the opportunity to help out, I
highly recommend it. Come help these people that

have lost a lot in the past couple weeks or so.
Give what you can. I've given, and we really

appreciate that support.

TRAVIS: They'll let you delineate between Harvey
and Irma, too, in case you want to pick one over

the other. Harvey had a lot of support from J.J.
Watt's $30+ million dollars. Irma,

the damage is still accruing.

MATT: I grew up in Florida. I know the area well,
and I have family out there that endured it. It's

very close to me. So if you can, greatly
appreciate it. Let's see here. Merch! Laura.

LAURA: This feels so weird to say after you
mentioned that.

TRAVIS: Nah, but we make happy stuff.

LAURA: Happy stuff! Which, by the way, you're
wearing your Dalen's Closet shirt, Matt, and it

matches your eyeballs so beautifully.

TRAVIS: Ooh!

MATT: I'll show it to you, and my back brace, to
make it really better.

SAM: Are we selling those in the store?

MATT: The back brace?

TRAVIS: Critical Role back brace! Do you DM 20
hours a week? We've got something for you!

LIAM: We missed an opportunity to put Backblaze on
that back brace.

(groaning)

LAURA: Next time.

MATT: Next time.

LIAM: No next time!

LAURA: There are Dalen's Closet shirts in the
store. Go check them out. There's tank tops.

They're really cool; they're cheaper because they
are sleeveless. That's less material. Dagger,

Dagger, Dagger; it's been re-released. We have the
Scanlan tee; we have all the tees. And it's

getting cooler now, so the hoodie is still in the
store; the softest hoodie ever is there. Go check

it out. We have hats and we have key chains and
necklaces and pencils and aprons and tarot cards,

and other stuff. And more stuff coming! So keep
your eyes peeled.

MATT: Thank you, Laura. Also reminding you guys,
we have up to episode 40 of Critical Role now

released on iTunes, Google, and geekandsundry.com
has all the information for it. So if you want to

listen to the podcast, or your friends have been
like, "I don't want to watch it, but I just want

to hear it."

LAURA: I want to watch it, but I don't want to
watch it.

MATT: It's good for commutes.

MARISHA: Also, clarification, speaking of saying
things prematurely before I should have. I've

gotten a lot of questions being like, "What
happened to that plan of rolling out one a day

once a week?" Yeah, that plan didn't turn out to
be feasible. And I might have said that-- I said

it, and then I looked down at the announcement
sheet and it said in parenthesis afterward, "But

do not announce this part." Which, why was it even
on our announcement sheet? Still my fault.

MATT: To be fair, I remember looking down at the
sheet as you were announcing it.

MARISHA: Oh shit. Anyway, it's never going to
happen because they're easier to do in batch. So

ten at a time. That's what you get.

TALIESIN: It's like one cookie at a time. You
can't bake one cookie at a time.

MARISHA: It's just better to do them in a block.

MATT: Thank you for the heads-up on that. We
announced a while back the Critical Role six-issue

mini-series comic book. We announced last week
that it's going through Dark Horse, which I'm

super excited about.

TRAVIS: DM is very excited.

MATT: Oh, yeah. Dark Horse was my introduction. I
was probably in fourth grade when I got into the

Alien comics through Dark Horse. I didn't realize
there was more to explore. Dude, I've been a fan

of them ever since. Being able to take this into
their realm is brilliant. I'm so excited. First

issue drops on the 20th, guys.

MARISHA: The digital issue. The first issue
releases digitally this coming Wednesday.

SAM: Is it good? I haven't read it.

LAURA: It's so good!

SAM: Why have you all read it and I haven't?

MARISHA: Because you don't read your emails.

SAM: Yeah, that's fair.

LIAM: You show up ten minutes after we start, you
leave an hour before we end the game every week.

SAM: That's true.

MATT: So that's coming up. It will be on
Comixology, iBooks, Dark Horse Digital, Kindle,

Nook, Google Play, etc. It's written by our good
friend, Matt Colville. It's drawn beautifully by

our good friend, Olivia Samson from the Critter
community, and the coloring and lettering by Chris

Northrop. Super stoked, hope you guys enjoy it. So
look out for that next week.

LIAM: Looks fucking awesome! The writing is
awesome! The art is awesome!

MATT: What he said.

LAURA: Did you already say about the physical
copies, too? When those will be released?

MATT: We'll have a trade available in spring
2018.

LIAM: It's coming out with the DLC for Middle
Earth.

MATT: Yeah, to tie in with it. Of course, we have
Talks Machina coming up this Tuesday at 7:00pm

Pacific, here with our fantastic host, Brian.
We'll be talking about our episode tonight. So

look for that next week. All the Critical Role
episodes are now available on Alpha. They've gone

back and added the bells and whistles, the
information, the stats, everything, for all the

episodes before Alpha even launched. So if you
ever watched it there, it's all updated.

SAM: I really should check my email!

TALIESIN: We would miss this sense of wonder
that we get to share with the community.

It's really nice.

MARISHA: They get your unbridled reaction.

TALIESIN: It's like watching Home Alone next to
Macaulay Culkin. It's great. I'm getting so much

out of it.

MATT: All righty. Last few things. One: this is
Sub-tember, guys, by the way, for Twitch.

Sub-tember means for the next few weeks, Twitch
has a special promotion where subscriptions are

half off for new subs for every Twitch channel,
including this one. So if you've been watching and

you've always wanted to subscribe, but you never
really felt like you can give the full $5, it's

half off this month. So if you want to subscribe
to our Twitch, now's the month to do it. Just

giving the heads-up. It's pretty rad, and thank
you, Sub-tember. Last but not least, Laura and

Travis, you are going to be at an event soon,
aren't you?

TRAVIS: Yeah! End of this month, we're going to be
at Anime Weekend Atlanta. The last week of

September. Hotlanta, Georgia. We're going to be
there with other people like Jennifer Hale and

people like that. But we're going to be there.
Come out, say hi, smack our hands, not our faces.

LAURA: Give a high-five.

MARISHA: I love Atlanta.

TRAVIS: It's pretty dope. I want to get in that
aquarium with those whale sharks. That's what I

want to do. We're not going to have time for that.
And then, also, in the middle of November, we're

going to be going to Australia. Laura and I are
going for two weeks. We're going to be in

Adelaide, Brisbane. So for all the Aussies--
what?

LAURA: I've got to get my passport.

TRAVIS: Oh shit!

LIAM: Expedite!

TRAVIS: So barring Laura's passport showing up--

MATT: You can hear the $400 burn away instantly.
That's how much it costs to expedite.

LAURA: Oh my god. I'm doing that tomorrow! I'm
going to write a note in my calendar.

TRAVIS: (sighs) Adelaide, Brisbane. If
you're there, you want to see us, come

see maybe just me.

(laughter)

SAM: Everybody tweet Laura tomorrow at noon,
saying--

LAURA: No, but seriously! If you want to, feel
free.

TRAVIS: Will Friedle will be there, too. He's
going to be my convention wife. Me and Friedle.

LAURA: I'm writing an email to myself.

MARISHA: Australia? Is that when we got
caught with having to have those weird

travel visas, as well?

MATT: Yeah. Make sure you get your travel visas.

MARISHA: Yeah, we didn't know until we got to the
airport. And then they're like, "You have to have

one." And then we're like, "Oh, okay." Luckily,
you can do it online.

TRAVIS: Oh, I totally have that covered.

MATT: All right. Well, cool, guys! Thank you so
much. Thank you for dealing with our long

announcements. It's been a few weeks. However, I
think, with that, it's time to dive into tonight's

episode of Critical Role.

[dramatic music]

MATT: Welcome back. I'll remember this. Why's
everything targeting Scanlan in this battle?

Welcome back, everyone. So last we left off, Vox
Machina, preparing themselves for a final fray

with the recently ascended god, Vecna, the Undying
King, discovered that he had brought the city of

Thar Amphala about 300 miles northwest, of
Vasselheim on the continent of Issylra. Upon

gathering allies to assail this region, you
discovered that it was shifting, moving. And

apparently the corpse of the long dead primordial
earth titan had been risen and began marching its

way towards Vasselheim with Thar Amphala embedded
at the top of its torso, protected by some sort of

magical barrier.

With an advance army of wyvern riders at your back
and J'mon Sa Ord giving you a ride between their

wings, you made your way southward. Quickly
depositing yourselves within a waterfall,

expelling opening towards the hip of this large
titan undead beast, you began to fight your way to

the interior. Dealing with corrupted earth
elemental shards, you began to make your way

through the catacombs, the long ruined and
abandoned dwarven city of Thomara, where you

encountered the tomb of the dwarven king. Where
you also managed to raid the tomb, found a magical

item, and dealt with some fun traps in the
process. Then, continuing to follow where this

route led you upward, hopefully towards the
underbelly of the city of Thar Amphala, you

uncovered a mostly cleaned out vault and did
battle with some undead trolls that immediately

rushed in and attacked you. You managed to destroy
them, and make your way out through a small cavern

that had just momentarily collapsed, clearing out
of the way. You all began to squeeze through the

opening to find the next length of your journey.

And that's where we left off. As you guys all
crawl through this recently cleared opening, you

come into a partially collapsed cavern about 20 or
so feet wide in places with elements of the

ceiling fallen in. You can see the rocks that are
scattered amongst the ground rumbling with each

impact of the feet of the titan you're currently
riding within. It seems to be going at a steady

incline beginning baseline and then about 20 feet
ahead, begin to rise upward to about a 30 to

45-degree angle with the next 25, 30 or so feet.

SAM: How do you play Dungeons and Dragons?

MATT: Two weeks, Sam? It's too much for you?

SAM: I've forgotten entirely what we're supposed
to do now. Insight check! I got nothing.

LIAM: I'm going to do my due diligence and scoot a
little ahead of everybody and start looking for

traps or anything hinky.

TRAVIS: Wait, Vax. You should consult that little
scrawny NPC fellow that was supposed-- oh, wait.

Oh, he's dead.

LIAM: Did anybody see that guy?

TRAVIS: Nope.

LAURA: Yeah, we did. We saw him.

MATT: Well, you saw the corpse after it was there,
yeah.

LIAM: Nobody asked me about him.

LAURA: No, because you did a good job of killing
that.

LIAM: That clearly undead cannibal dwarf eating
flesh, as I saw it, so problem solved. We're on a

time table, yeah?

LAURA: We should keep moving upwards, I'm
assuming?

SAM: Did we get any items recently?

TRAVIS: No, I picked up that hammer that was
hitting me in the face.

LAURA: Well, yeah. But Percy, the belt?

SAM: Yeah, what does it do?

TALIESIN: Stuff, things. I'm using it right now.

MARISHA: Do we need to do a switchery-poo of our
items?

LAURA: I think we maybe should do that, actually.

SAM: We all have potions, right? Did we pass out
potions?

TRAVIS: We all have at least the one superior from
the brass dragon.

LIAM: Are we going to take a little 20-minute
breather here?

SAM: This is just for us to remember what we're
doing. I don't know. Should we stop? I think we're

on a timetable. We should keep moving, right? Does
anyone need to heal?

MARISHA: We just stopped, right?

MATT: You'd taken a brief rest after the battle
with the trolls where you guys began to look about

the inside of the vault. And that's where the part
of the exit collapsed.

TRAVIS: I didn't roll any hit dice. Should we roll
some hit dice?

MARISHA: You dug things out?

LAURA: But he was doing something? He was reading,
or something.

SAM: Yeah, you were trying to read Dwarvish, or
something. And it took an hour.

TRAVIS: I clearly do not remember this. That's
right, I remember. I don't remember what I read,

but I remember.

SAM: It just said, "Do not enter."

TRAVIS: Yep. There were things.

LIAM: We're doing the Vox Machina thing and
standing around like a bunch of dumb fucks trying

to figure out what to do. I'm going to attune the
Deathwalker's Ward to necrotic damage.

MATT: All righty. Necrotic it is.

TRAVIS: We also need to be on the lookout for that
sword, remember? In the story?

SAM: The sword of Kas?

TRAVIS: Just saying. Keep your eyes peeled,
high-perception people.

LAURA: All right.

TALIESIN: I literally can't see anything.

LAURA: Wait, we have light.

MARISHA: (whoosh)

LAURA: Yeah, see?

MATT: Between her hand, his dagger, and
Pike's mace, you have a few light sources

that you guys maintain.

LAURA: Pike's mace is lit up. We said that last
time.

MATT: But do keep in mind that light sources also
do make you a bright beacon in dark places.

LAURA: Probably your hands are less noticeable
than Pike's mace.

LIAM: Oh, I don't know.

TALIESIN: I think they would be less
intimidated by a glowing mace than by

glowing hands, at this point.

MATT: Glowing hands is like a small torch
firelight. The Mace of Disruption--

LIAM: Is like a headlamp.

LAURA: So maybe we'll not have the mace on.

LIAM: "Yeah, okay. I'll put this away."

LAURA: That sounded just like her.

SAM: She's turning more and more Canadian as you
go.

LIAM: She's kind of Canadian already. Come on.

MATT: So if I could have a marching order,
please?

LIAM: Yo. Up front, looking for traps.

LAURA: Did you want this acid-resistant armor?
You'd at least be resistant to acid.

TRAVIS: And Vex is probably with her brother. I'll
be right behind the twins. It's the twins and then

me. Who wants to be behind?

TALIESIN: I'll be behind you.

MATT: Okay. Do you have Trinket out, Vex?

LAURA: Yeah, Trinket is out.

MATT: Percy's after Grog.

MARISHA: Me.

MATT: Keyleth, and then we have Pike and Scanlan
holding up the rear. All righty, there you go.

Have that marked down. How far ahead are you
tracking?

LIAM: 20 feet.

MATT: So 20 feet ahead, you begin to make your way
up the incline, and it is loose rock in this

tunnel. As you step, there are elements that skid
and fall beneath the pressure of your feet, and

you have to be careful as you progress up the
incline based on how much it continues upward to

keep your footing.

LAURA: Brother.

LIAM: Yeah?

LAURA: Make sure you stay within 60 feet of me.

LIAM: I turn around and look at her and go: all
right.

LAURA: You said you're 20 fucking feet
in front of me, I'm using my fucking

earring to whisper to you.

LIAM: You're stage-whispering and that's very easy
to hear.

LAURA: Stay within fucking 60 feet of me, all
right?

LIAM: I love you. Perception check. Investigation
for traps? Yeah. That is a 25.

MATT: Okay. No traps catch your attention. As you
progress forward, you begin to notice the tunnel

seems to be pincering a bit the further you go.
The sides of the walls begin to close in and

eventually, about 30 feet ahead, comes from the
15, 20-foot width that the initial entrance way

into this carved tunnel was, pinches to about
three feet wide.

SAM: How tall?

MATT: About five and half, six feet tall?

TALIESIN: Is this pressure by design, or
is this what's been done to the

structure by the transformation?

MATT: You'll probably have to get closer to see.
Where you are currently, it looks like part of the

tunnel was carved outward and then shaken, and
elements of it collapsed and loosened the earth

that at one point was packed at the sides.

LAURA: And the tunnel's rising steadily upwards?

MATT: Yeah. It's coming at an incline.

TRAVIS: How's it look?

LIAM: It's dark up there. I can only see about 60
feet up. Does it keep going beyond that?

MATT: The incline isn't increasing. It gets to
about a 45-degree incline and then maintains that

up until the outside of your visual range.

LIAM: Okay. I'm a punching bag for this shit. Why
don't you all wait here a minute. Wait.

ALL: Wait.

LAURA: Do you want me to fly up there?

LIAM: Well, will you go with me?

LAURA: Of course. Can you not use your wings?

LIAM: They're gone.

LAURA: Well, then hop on.

LIAM: This could be the last time we do this. Come
on.

SAM: Oh god.

LIAM: Well, there's only four games left, Sam.

LAURA: You don't know that!

LIAM: It's scripted!

(laughter)

MARISHA: That's going to be a Reddit thread
later.

LAURA: Do we have Pass Without a Trace on?

LIAM: Yeah, I think that probably faded by now.

MATT: Not if you haven't recast it because after
the short rest it would've been gone.

LAURA: Should I cast that on us?

LIAM: Yes.

LAURA: No, wait! I shouldn't because I got a
proficiency, so we're both stealthy stealth. We're

fine. So we're just going to go. I'm not casting
it. But here's the thing. Everybody stay right at

the bottom. We're going to fly up, but we're not
going to fly up more than 60 feet away from them.

LIAM: Right. We'll go 60 feet up, see what we can
see.

LAURA: And then come back down.

LIAM: Sure. Or you could stay there and I could go
even further up 60 feet--

LAURA: All right. As long as everybody's within 60
feet of me. Because we're getting really close and

I don't want Vecna to see us. I've got this ring.

TALIESIN: That's right. I forgot about the ring.

LIAM: All right. Let's do that.

MATT: So as you guys glide up on the broom,
stealthily, I want you guys both to roll a stealth

check, please.

TRAVIS: Pick from your fucking 300 dice.

LAURA: Ooh, that's good.

TRAVIS: Almost poked my eye out. You almost made
me Vecna.

LAURA: 30.

LIAM: 29.

LAURA: 30.

MATT: All right. That's impressive. So as you both
quietly coast your way past this entrance way,

squeezing into this two and a half,
three-foot-wide location, you get just within the

60 foot range and look up and Vax, you step off
the broom and make your way quietly up to the

other side of the range. You get about 30 feet
beyond the broom before your vision meets where

this tunnel seems to end and it looks like there
is a solid, rocky blockage.

LAURA: What do you see?

LIAM: It's corked up. It's all right. Yeah, it's
blocked up with stone. I guess I'd have to get a

closer look to see if we could get through.

LAURA: Well, get a fucking closer look.

TALIESIN: If we have to, we can just have Grog
beat it down.

LAURA: Yes, but quiet is the key word.

TALIESIN: Is it? We can try and time it to a
step.

LIAM: Hand on the sides to get my way up closer to
it. Looking for any traps.

MATT: Go ahead and make an athletics check as
you're climbing up to maintain the strength, as

the incline is now towards the end getting more
and more steep.

LIAM: Get ready to catch me.

LAURA: I'm going to hover.

LIAM: Yes! My athletics is a two, but I rolled a
19, so 21.

MATT: Deftly, you manage to find the proper
handholds and pull your strength up as the final

bit becomes a little bit of a upper body weight
carrying situation, and you come to the edge of

the rock and you see it. It does appear to be a
rocky cave-in or larger boulder that has fallen or

been placed to close. It looks to be one solid
rock, yeah. At this point, the entrance is about

four foot by two foot. And it's all blocked by one
solid piece of rock.

LIAM: Yeah. We're not getting through this. Hey.
I'm not getting through this, you're not.

Maybe Kiki can.

LAURA: Do we see any other openings?

MATT: This would be a perception check.

SAM: Matt, my friends just told me to start paying
attention to the cadence of the steps to see if

they change in any discernible way.

MARISHA: That's what we're doing. While they do
that, we're timing the steps out.

MATT: Make a perception check.

LAURA: 20.

MATT: 20? Okay.

TALIESIN and MARISHA: Ugh.

SAM: 15.

MARISHA: 15.

TALIESIN: 12.

MATT: It's not that difficult to discern the
pattern of the steps. The entirety of this titan

shifts and quakes with each footfall, so it's
pretty easy to find the pattern. It rarely

changes, and you imagine any slight shift that you
feel as they're going about this is because it's

stepping on or through terrain that is not flat.
But it is a pretty discernible pattern.

TALIESIN: We could go have Grog smash it
down in tempo with the steps so that the

sound will be covered.

TRAVIS: Like Shawshank Redemption and the poop
pipe.

TALIESIN: I was thinking of the Tainted Love
Levi's commercial.

LAURA: Do I see any other--

MATT: Not really. It mostly looks like loose rock
and the more you glance about with each impacting

footfall, you see two or three errant rocks
go. You guys watch as more rocks tumble

down the incline.

LAURA: Maybe we need to do this quickly. This
doesn't seem like the most stable sort of tunnel.

Hop on the broom, darling.

TALIESIN: I like the idea of you punching this at
the appropriate moment.

MARISHA: It also saves me a 6th-level spell.

TRAVIS: Well, that's what's most important. Are
the Knuckles still doing that vibrating hum thing?

MATT: Yeah.

TRAVIS: Can I go into a rage?

MATT: You may.

TRAVIS: And I would like to try and bash the shit
out of this--

TALIESIN and LAURA: In tempo.

MATT: This is a tight tunnel for you. You
have to crouch down, round your shoulders

as you're doing it.

TRAVIS: I'm going to do the one-inch punch.

MATT: Make an athletics check. With advantage,
because you are raging.

TRAVIS: Yeah, because I'm an angry monster. 21.

MATT: Okay. Here's the scenario: Vex and Vax, as
you guys are on the broom in the tunnel, you look

down and you know in Labyrinth, when the cleaner
comes through the tunnel that fills the entirety

of the space? You watch as this angry goliath
starts up the tunnel towards you, and there does

not appear to be much of any space you could
squeeze through.

LIAM: Is there a bubble at the top, maybe?

LAURA: Grog?

TRAVIS: What? (angry panting)

LAURA: Can we pass under his legs or something?

LIAM: Dive, dive!

LAURA: Rage quietly.

MATT: You can both attempt to. Make an acrobatics
check to attempt to squeeze between his legs.

LAURA: At the same time? Acrobatics. 22.

LIAM: 30-something.

MATT: It's not comfortable, but you both (popping)
out the back, between his monstrous goliath

thighs. From a backward perspective, those of you
who are still waiting a little further down the

tunnel from Vex: it's a unique sight, as the back
end of your goliath friend suddenly gives birth to

two half-elves. It's very Ace Ventura 2. However,
you eventually climb your way angrily up to the

very edge and there is the boulder, there, and
you're about to go right towards it, but then stop

and remember what your friends had said, and you
wait patiently for the pattern of the next

footfall. (boom)

TRAVIS: (punch impact)

MATT: Go ahead and roll an attack.

TRAVIS: Can I make it reckless-- oh, I didn't say
it.

LAURA: But you do extra damage because you're--

TRAVIS: Oh, yeah, siege. Oh, it's fine. 30.

MATT: Yeah, all right, so roll 1d4 damage.

TRAVIS: Okay, 1d4. Four!

MATT: Plus your strength modifier and your rage
damage.

TRAVIS: Eight. 27.

MATT: Whoa, wait, did you double it already?

TRAVIS: No.

MATT: Wait, so it's four plus eight, 12.

TRAVIS: And my rage damage is 15. Well, that's
with the axe.

MATT: That's with the axe, yeah. No, that's your
overall. So your rage damage at this level is

four, because you just went up a level. So it's 12
plus four, so it's 16. So you do 32 points of

bludgeoning damage with a single punch to this
rock. With one hit, the entire boulder shifts and

cracks, and you watch as part of it breaks away,
and you see a brief glimmer of a dull light from

the opposite side, as it rests back into place,
heavily damaged.

TALIESIN: (singing) Wait for it to go again and
bump, bump, bump.

MATT: You wait for the next footfall of the titan
(impact). You feel the impact and the shake. Do

you want to go for another punch?

TRAVIS: Do I hit it now?

SAM, TALIESIN, and LAURA: Yes!

MATT: Roll another attack.

TRAVIS: Oh, that's even better. 33.

MATT: Easily enough. Go ahead and roll another
d4.

TRAVIS: Two plus eight. Ten plus--

MATT: Four for rage damage.

TRAVIS: 14.

MATT: All right, and so with that, your fist slams
into the boulder a second time. It explodes and

shatters into hundreds of crumbled pieces of rock
and stone goes firing across the distance of this

tunnel, now revealing a little bit of flickering
firelight. As you're sitting there seething with

anger and your muscles and veins bulging with each
breath--

TRAVIS: I'm so swole right now.

MATT: Yeah. You can see above you, this
entranceway opens up into a five-foot wide,

ten-foot tall hallway that goes to the right and
left. As you emerge, it goes a little bit to the

right and front, and then to the back and behind
you that direction.

TRAVIS: Hey guys, it's a Z.

LAURA: What do you see?

TRAVIS: Let me find out. So I wiggle up a little
more.

MARISHA: So you know the first and last letter of
the alphabet? Don't worry about it.

MATT: So you squeeze out of the small entrance way
and step up into it. You can see now a

well-constructed hallway. You can see there are
stone slabs that are carved. The patterns and the

angular architecture of this hall as it comes up
into a trapezoid position. The hall comes in a

bit, and the hallway rooftop is a flat, even
surface. This is apparently a hall of dwarven make

and seems to be a continuation of some sort of
structure or pathway of Thomara.

TALIESIN: Let the twins take a look. I think it
would be safe.

TRAVIS: It's a well-constructed hallway of
dwarvish make. (groans)

LAURA: We sneak under his legs again to like see
what's going on.

MATT: You guys all eventually make your way up
into this hallway. Now, it is still a five

-foot-wide hallway, so you're still here in
single-file progression one way or the other.

LIAM: Twins are already at the top looking for
problems.

MATT: Right, so you guys would be able to because
it's a ten-foot-tall tunnel. You guys would be

able to occupy a space above another party member
if you were both on the broom.

LAURA: Oh, should we be on the broom? No, you
should be off the broom because you might check

for traps. I'll check for traps along the wall and
ceiling. And he's going to check for traps--

LIAM: I'll take the lower half. That's called
advantage.

MATT: So go ahead and make and investigation
check.

LAURA: Both of us or just him with advantage?

MATT: Both of you separately because you're
investigating different elements of the hallway.

LIAM: 18 for me.

LAURA: Investigation? Natural fucking 20!

MATT: As you guys glance up and focus on the
surrounding location. The hallway behind you goes

for about 30 or so feet before it looks like a cave
in. It looks like a mass of fully collapsed,

broken stone. You can see bits of the hallway
slabs that originally held up that part are

collapsed inward and broken, left scattered across
the ground. The other direction you go continues

on and opens into a dark chamber about 60 feet
ahead of you.

LAURA: We should go toward the cave in, don't you
think?

MATT: There are small built-in sconces that are
magically, perpetually burning firelight.

LAURA: Does this seem like there's any traps that
could be set off as we walk towards the--?

MATT: You do not notice anything, as you were
investigating specifically for that.

TALIESIN: Check the sconces, see if they trigger
something.

LAURA: I'll look at the sconces.

LIAM: I will look at the sconces.

LAURA: I'll look at them better.

MATT: I included that as your perception for traps
above. You did not notice anything that would be

considered a trap.

LAURA: You guys, there's no traps. We should head
towards this darkened room.

MARISHA: Save a life, check a sconce.

LIAM: I'm going to creep about 40 feet down the
hall and continue that search.

MATT: About 20 feet before this darkened chamber
is there before you. As you get to the edge, you

can see a little bit the very inside of this
chamber. You can see a darkened brazier. It's your

mind playing tricks on you. You thought you heard
a raven.

LIAM: Every day when I'm on the crapper, Matt.
Everywhere.

MATT: A cold metallic brazier in the middle of the
room. And that's as far as you can see into the

chamber, before the edge of your visual range goes
dark.

TALIESIN: People don't install those unless
there's something awful that needs to be done.

MARISHA: Do we have any idea how far we've
climbed?

MATT: You can make a nature check.

LIAM: And do I need to make a extra roll to look
for traps around this brazier?

MATT: If you want to enter the chamber, you can.
You're too far away.

MARISHA: Hey! Natural 20! That's a Gil 20!

MATT: As you take a moment, and think back to how
far you've traveled path-wise and inclines and

where you entered this titan and to where the city
of Thar Amphala is placed upon its torso, you

gather you're close to halfway through its torso,
if not a little beyond it.

MARSHIA: If not a little beyond?

SAM: He's big.

MARISHA: Okay, all right. Nipple level?

MATT: Sternum.

MARISHA: The heartburn region? A little acid
reflux?

LIAM: We are the acid reflux.

MARISHA: He has acid resistance against reflux.

LIAM: Jesus Christ. Whoever that is.

MATT: You scoot up to the edge.

LIAM: I don't want to go further than roughly 60
feet away from my sister.

MATT: Right. Which will put you right at the
entryway to this chamber.

LIAM: Yeah. So I will peep in from here.

LAURA: I follow up and stand next to him. Did you
want to go in?

LIAM: I did.

LAURA: Feel free.

MATT: So the marching order is the same? We got
the twins up the front.

TALIESIN: Yeah. I like this marching order.

LIAM: Let this shit blow up in my face, so
everybody hang back for a second. And I'm going to

pitter patter in and look around the sconce, the
room.

LAURA: I think I was more stealthy than you a
moment ago, so are you sure you want to be in

front of me?

LIAM: I love you anyway. Here I go.

TALIESIN: He's better at blowing up than you are,
dear.

TRAVIS: Yeah. His heart beats once a century, so
let him go.

LIAM: Slower than this titan's footfalls.

MATT: All right. So as you enter the chamber, it's
a small, about 20-foot radius square-shaped dark

iron chamber with rounded corners. So it's about
40 feet wide from side to side, 20 feet from the

center where the brazier is and the corners are
slightly curved. It doesn't come to a straight,

hard corner. There is no exit door currently
visible; the chamber comes to an end. The room

looks mostly bare, aside from an eight-foot-tall,
five-foot-wide mirror coated in dust, framed in

intricate gold and brass that sits
across the chamber on the opposite side

of where you entered.

LIAM: Mirror in brass. So it's an iron room,
right?

MATT: Iron room with a brass edge around this
eight-foot tall, five-foot wide mirror. You can

tell it's a mirror from this side. What little bit
of light there is behind you, you can see your

silhouette waving mirrored in the mirror.

LIAM: So doorway, brazier, mirror.

MATT: Mirror. And then the rest of the chamber
seems fairly empty.

LAURA: And the brazier is complete dark?

MATT: Yeah.

LAURA: It's cold.

TALIESIN: Oh no.

LAURA: This is not good.

LIAM: Look at his fake innocent face.

SAM: I think it's just a vanity.

LIAM: Going to check for traps from right here to
start. All right. That's totally fine. That's a

jellyfish. That is a 17.

MATT: You begin to glance around the chamber, best
you can, to take in the scenery. You notice small

gold piece-sized buttons or pressure knobs set in
the rounded corners of the chamber on the mirror

side. One's embedded within the upper
left and right corners and within the lower

left and right corners.

SAM: Pressure knobs?

MATT: They're like little buttons that are gold
piece-sized that are embedded in the upper right

and left corners and the lower left and right
corners.

TRAVIS: Push them!

LIAM: Stubby, come up here. I have a real bad
history with pushing buttons.

MATT: You also notice very thin light
piles of black residue or ash scattered in

places across the floor.

MARISHA: Called it. This is a fucking incinerator.
I knew it! This feels like an incinerator. No?

What? He's looking at me-- (nervous laughter)

LIAM: (sighs) So we've got buttons.

MARISHA: Or lasers.

TRAVIS: Incinerator or lasers.

MARISHA: Laser incinerator! Duh!

TRAVIS: That was a great jump for me and my
character.

LIAM: If something stupid is going to happen here,
I don't want it to be on me alone for once. So

we've got an unlit brazier, there's mirror over
there, and buttons, yeah.

LAURA: Maybe the mirror is a door.

LIAM: I thought that, as well.

LAURA: Should we try to walk through it?

TALIESIN: Maybe a second interrogation room and
there's another room behind it, maybe?

LIAM: Can we get your hub up here, please?

TALIESIN: I am up here. I'm right here.

LIAM: Jesus!

LAURA: Hi, darling. I don't know why he didn't
hear you. You used to be so good at that. Is the

mirror leaning or is it on the wall?

MATT: It's on the wall.

MARISHA: Is it curved? No. The whole room isn't
curved. It's a square room.

MATT: It's a square room but the corners curve
ever so slightly so there's no direct corner and

in those curved corners on the side that the
mirror's on, so the far side from you, there's

these little buttons in the upper right and left
corner and the lower left and right.

LAURA: Can I reach down and touch the iron on the
ground? The floor? Does it feel warm?

MATT: Mm. It's cold.

LIAM: I catch her wrist. Just a second. You
two do the thinking, all right? And I take

a step into the room.

MATT: Okay.

LIAM: What do I do?

LAURA: Go see if you can walk through the mirror.

TALIESIN: Tap the mirror.

TRAVIS: Light the brazier!

LAURA: We've done that before and we all
exploded.

TRAVIS: Yeah, but it's Vax.

MARISHA: Wait. Before we do that, can I reach some
of the ashy stuff?

MATT: If you enter the chamber to, yeah.

MARISHA: Hand me some ash. I'll test it.

LIAM: I scoop some ash. Lady of the
Grey Hunt, here. I scoop up some ash and

I pour it into her hands.

MARISHA: Okay. I do a nature check. What does this
ash feel like it's made out of?

SAM: Human bones.

MARISHA: Yeah, that's what I'm wondering.
(groans)

TALIESIN: Wow.

LAURA: No. What is it? (groans)

TRAVIS: Is it for real? You are lying!

LIAM: Look at that face! You are not lying!

MARISHA: Oh man. That's a one. Thanks, Gil.
I blame Gil for his natural 20 in the balance

of the universe.

MATT: It's light ash. You're not sure what the
basis of what may have burned here. You see more

of it gathered near where the brazier is.

TALIESIN: Is it in piles that would be about
human-amount of ash?

MATT: Make an investigation check.

TALIESIN: All right. I'll Gil this one. Yeah,
natural 20. That'll do.

SAM: Only ones and 20s tonight.

LIAM: That's it, yeah. Just quarters. Heads up,
heads down.

MATT: More of it seems to be around the base of
the brazier, but you do see there are thicker

traces at different places throughout the
chamber.

TALIESIN: It's organic ash?

MATT: You've dealt with different types of ash.
The carbon appears to have been organic-based at

some point.

LIAM: I pull off my belt and say: Hello, Simon.
Wake him up.

MATT: Okay. (slithering)

LIAM: Hi. Gosh, it's been a while.

LAURA: Simon, go through the mirror.

LIAM: That's right. Go check out the mirror,
Simon, all right? Off you go.

TRAVIS: Are we still in the room?

LAURA: No, nobody's in the room. He's the only one
in the room.

MATT: (slithering) Scoots over and heads up to the
mirror and presses up against it.

LIAM: I dart back one step out of the room as it
happens.

MATT: The snake trying to push up against the wall
but half of its body sliding against the mirror

before it eventually scoots off and lands. It
tries again, pushing against the mirror and then

eventually (sliding).

TALIESIN: I hate to say this, but tap the button?

LIAM: That's on the list. Simon, buddy. Crawl up
the brazier. Wrap around it. Go up to the top.

MATT: The snake slithers around and makes its way.
It's a cross-metal cage. There are inch wide metal

bars that all curl up like a basket and then there
are bars that cross around it to hold the shape.

It looks like there are some long-burned,
blackened pieces of wood that have been left for a

long time. So Simon curls up into the brazier and
curls up around the metal, comes around the top of

the outer rim of it, rests there.

LIAM: There's two buttons low down. Oh man. The
nostalgia here. All right, buddy. I take two steps

back away from the door. Buddy buds. Will you go
push those low buttons in the room?

MATT: Which one?

LIAM: There's two, right?

MATT: There's four on the opposite side.

LIAM: There's two high up. And I don't think he
can reach the high, because he doesn't stick to

walls. Get the one over here on the left first.

LAURA: What if we all have to push every button at
the same time?

LIAM: That's true. That could be.

MATT: Simon (slithering) moves over.

LIAM: I lean over to Percy, I say: science!

MATT: Hits the button. (click) Right on the
entrance of where you are in the chamber, slams

closed. Iron metal now closes off that
entranceway.

TALIESIN: I'm going to touch the door.

SAM: And say goodbye.

TALIESIN: Simon, we barely knew him. Is it warm?

MATT: It is beginning to get warm.

TALIESIN: It's an oven. I'm looking for some sort
some sort of cancel mechanism somewhere on

the outside of the door.

MATT: Make an investigation check.

SAM: Is Vax in the room?

LIAM: No, I took two steps back from the door.

LAURA: No, nobody's in the room.

TALIESIN: Let's say that investigation was
somewhere around a seven?

(laughter)

MATT: It's pretty solid at this point. The walls
that lean in towards the ceiling there-- it is a

perfect solid iron slab that has closed off at the
entrance.

TRAVIS: No problem. I'll get it down.

LAURA: No!

LIAM: Wait. Simon is technically a magical item,
so I don't think he would be harmed by anything

going on in there, so why don't we give it five
minutes?

MARISHA: And maybe it'll open again.

LIAM: Yeah.

TRAVIS: Is there anything going on in the tunnel,
on the outside of this door, where we are?

LAURA: Coming up from behind us?

MATT: Make a perception check.

TRAVIS: Temperature check, anything like that?
Natural 20.

TALIESIN: We have been gone so long!

MATT: Gone for two weeks and you guys can't find
middle math. It's only extremes.

LIAM: Yeah, we've had blue balls for two weeks,
and it's all coming out now.

MATT: So as you guys glance back in the shadow of
the tunnel behind you, nothing seems to be

catching your eye. It's still dark. About two
minutes in, what was once dark metal is now giving

a slight orangish hue. You can feel the heat
emanating from it.

TRAVIS: There's no ash on the floor in the hallway
that we are in right now, right?

MATT: I'd say, because of your perception
check, as you glance around, there does

not appear to be any ash.

TRAVIS: I don't want that door to fucking open all
of a sudden.

MATT: About five minutes go by as you guys are
waiting. Eventually, the iron wall begins to

descend. The dull orangish glow of it is still
there. As it opens, a wave of heated air emerges

from the chamber. You all have to immediately
close your eyes. Some of you instinctually begin

to step further back into the hallway. On the
inside of the room, you can see the black iron

interior of the chamber is also that same orangish
glow. The mirror is unscathed. You all step back

and watch and a few minutes pass as it slowly
begins to cool off, the metal slowly darkening.

You're too far away to look. You make a perception
check to try and glance in?

LAURA: Can't you call to him?

LIAM: Simon? Come here, buddy.

MATT: There's no response.

LIAM: (gasps) He's a magical item! Oh, but he
could have turned back into a belt.

TALIESIN: What's he going to say if you call to
him? Was he going to say something?

LIAM: He would come to me, Percy! Jeepers
creepers! Perception check? 29!

MATT: You glance past where the button was that it
hit. You see a limp belt left on the ground.

LIAM: Okay, I'll get that in a minute.

LAURA: When you go pick him up and put him back on
your fucking waist.

MATT: Technically, since Simon's taken enough
damage to revert to the belt form, Simon cannot

turn back into a snake for the day.

LAURA: How about that unseen servant?

LIAM: I'm thinking, having no knowledge of magic,
that we either want to somehow push all four of

these buttons at once, as my sister said, or light
this brazier, or both.

LAURA: What about the brazier? Is it cold? Does it
look like it's hot?

SAM: The brazier's the source of the furnace, I
assume.

TRAVIS: Are there still charred wooden pieces in
the middle of it?

MATT: The pieces are still there, but it's black
carbon. There's nothing in there that could burn.

Whatever's been in there has been heated so much
to the point--

TRAVIS: It's not the source of the flame. Not for
that much heat.

MARISHA: If I was the person who designed this,
why would I put a failsafe in here?

LIAM: A way to get through that only the creator
would know how to use?

MARISHA: I feel like there's got to be another
entrance because we can see another room, right?

LAURA: There's no other room, it's a mirror. Oh,
Keyleth, that's our reflection.

MARISHA: No, I know that, but a lot of things have
reflections.

LIAM: Listen, all of you, or I, are going to be
dead very soon. Are you sure you want to be that

sarcastic right now?

MARISHA: I go up to the mirror and check it out.
It's cooled off enough, right?

MATT: Well, no. If you guys want to take
a few minutes, you can wait until it

cools off, if you want to.

TALIESIN: Why don't we try pushing all four
buttons at once?

SAM: Wait, before we do that, I'm going
to enter the room and look around at

the walls and the ceiling.

MATT: Okay, I take it you wait until it cools off.
It takes about ten minutes or so for it to fully

cool off, to the point where it's comfortable.

SAM: I'm looking for markings, indications of
instructions, arrows, any hidden words--

MATT: Make an investigation check.

TRAVIS: Look for Dwarvish. I'm aces with that.

SAM: Ooh, a lot. 29.

TALIESIN: He's coming up with some bullshit.

MATT: Okay. Because the room is not fully cooled
off, it's still warm in there, somewhat. You

glance through. The ceiling and the walls all
appear to be solid iron, and there's a layer of

dust across a lot of it, a bit of ash from
whatever previously may have been incinerated in

here, long ago. As you look from the opposite side
of the room into the reflection of the mirror, you

see a very faint orangish glow in the reflection.
It looks like, in the upper corner and the lower

corner of the opposite side of the mirror as
you're glancing off across to the other side. As

you look over to the wall, of the room you're in,
there's no glow.

SAM: Wait, so the wall that we came in through?

MATT: Let's say you enter the chamber and you move
to the corner immediately to your right. You look

in the mirror at an angle. You're now seeing the
reflection of the corner opposite to you, right?

Looking in that reflection, you can see this very
faint orange glow in the upper and lower corner,

but you glance over to the physical corner across
from you, and it's not there.

LAURA: What do your gnomish eyes see, Scanlan?

SAM: I think there's magical buttons in here and
we need to find them? So I'm going to look in the

mirror. I go to the opposite corner and do the
same thing.

MATT: As you have this conversation and look back,
those two glowing sigils are gone.

SAM: Even in the mirror?

MATT: Even in the mirror. What you saw earlier is
now gone.

TRAVIS: But they're revealed by heat.

MARISHA: Where were they?

SAM: They were upper and lower corner, yeah.

MARISHA: I walk over and I heat them with my heat
hands.

MATT: Okay, so you take your hands and you put
them up near there. As you put your hands on the

wall, nothing seems to happen. As you glance
through the reflection where she has her hands,

that symbol seems to be appearing again.

LAURA: What is the symbol of?

SAM: It's so far. I don't know. Can I see it?

MATT: It looks to be a simple triangular symbol,
marked in a circle. Make an arcana check.

SAM: Oh yeah. 14 plus six, that's 20.

MATT: It's the most basic of arcane marks. It's a
variation on a spell that basically is a mark that

a certain enchanter or somebody places to mark as
their own. However, this is meant to be a basic

marker, a visual draw. There's no language behind
it. It's just an indicator.

SAM: Keyleth, do that same thing to the lower one.
Same marking?

MATT: As you head down there, the one above begins
to slowly fade. As her hands go there, the symbol

appears below.

SAM: Same symbol? Let's do that to the other walls
and see if we can find other ones.

MATT: As you guys reverse, opposite sides, you go
to the other corners, the ones that were

immediately toward the entrance of where you
walked in. Sure enough, two more symbols,

mirroring where the buttons are on the far side
corners.

SAM: So we push those? But there's a hidden button
in there.

TRAVIS: When you're a big fire, the walking
thing--

MARISHA: A fire elemental.

TRAVIS: Sure. Do you take damage from fire? So you
should be in here.

LAURA: You should go in there, see if you can
disengage the trap.

LIAM: So you are impervious to being set on fire
or burned?

MARISHA: Well, when I'm a fire elemental.

LAURA: Can you do that?

MARISHA: Can I do it right now? Yeah. I just took
a short rest, so yes, I can do that.

TRAVIS: We also have an unseen servant.

SAM: So we're going to need four people.

MARISHA: So what's the end goal? What am I doing?

LIAM: Press all four buttons at once, although
we've got at least three sharpshooters--

SAM: Not the buttons that we can see. What are
these symbols here? I think they're buttons, as well.

TRAVIS: It might be a depression on the wall or
something.

MARISHA: But what if the buttons are correlated
with the symbols?

TALIESIN: Let's try pushing all four buttons.

TRAVIS: The regular buttons or the magic ones?

LIAM: Please stand by.

LAURA: I want to go look at where the symbol is
and see if it's a fucking button.

MARISHA: Yeah, if I touch the symbol, there's
nothing there, right?

SAM: Was there anything there?

MATT: You put your hand on there. Nothing. The
wall doesn't move.

MARISHA: It's just a wall.

TRAVIS: No depression, no toggle?

MATT: Make an investigation check.

TRAVIS: I've got this, you guys. Oh! Minus two.
17!

MATT: 17. Grog, as you step up and glare down at
the place where Keyleth had placed her palm, you

get frustrated and (sighs heavily). As you exhale,
it looks like a bit of soot and ash that had been

slowly drifting in and filling this space flutters
away. You can see two lines, parallel to each

other, about an inch tall.

TRAVIS: Fifth Element, anyone? Oh look! Breath of
Grog reveals all! Look, behold! Two. Lines.

LAURA: What did you do?

TRAVIS: I breathed on the wall.

SAM: What do they do? What do these lines do?

MARISHA: I do a quick Gust cantrip.

MATT: Across the parallel lines? All right. As the
wind blows across it, a lot more of the soot and

the ash blows around the area. It creates an open
space where it pushes out to the edges and darkens

areas of the floor and the vicinity around
Keyleth. That edge of that corner, where you blew

the Gust cantrip that Grog had unfurled, is now
clear, the iron revealed. Nothing beyond the two.

LAURA: I fly up on my broom and do it to the
symbol up on the corner and go (blowing).

MATT: Okay. So up there. You blow on that one and
it looks like--

MARISHA: Hang on, I've got a paper ready.

LIAM: How many people at home do you think have
figured this out already?

LAURA: We already figured it out!

SAM: Wait, you guys are blowing on the arcane
symbols?

LAURA: Yeah, to clear them out!

TRAVIS: If you're looking at the door we came in,
Grog blew on the lower right?

SAM: And that's two lines. Boom.

MATT: That would be lower right.

TRAVIS: Two vertical lines.

MATT: Correct.

LAURA: I'm in the corner above Grog.

MATT: That would be upper right.

TALIESIN: I'm going to do bottom left.

MATT: All right, you blow, and you watch as the
dust reveals. It's two more lines.

LAURA: Two lines? Shit. I thought it was going to
be another--

TALIESIN: Bottom left. Getting out a hanky and
(blows).

LIAM: Did you use your ascot?

TALIESIN: Yes, of course. That's what it's there
for. The back of it.

LAURA: The one clean spot left on it.

MATT: That one has four parallel lines.

LAURA: Ooh! I'll go into the corner above Percy.
There was a reflection there, too, right?

SAM: Blow! Laura, blow!

LAURA: (blows) I looked straight at the camera as
I did it. It was really awkward.

MATT: All right, that one has a single line.

SAM: Wait, so we've got one, two, two, four?

LAURA: Is there one with three lines, or are there
any more areas we saw a reflection?

TRAVIS: What about above the door? It is opposite
of the mirror, right? If one's a door, and the

other one's a door?

LAURA: Okay, I'll blow above the door.

LIAM: And I'm going to start blowing around the
mirror.

LAURA: We all walk around going (raspberries).

TRAVIS: Constitution check to see who passes out
first?

MATT: What was that?

TALIESIN: Does the mirror have a fancy frame?

MATT: It's not extremely intricate, but it looks
like there's a brass or bronze frame around it.

TALIESIN: Are any of these symbols mirrored in the
frame itself? Is there a mirror of any of these

symbols in the frame?

MATT: As you look in the actual frame itself, you
don't see anything that matches the symbols.

LAURA: What if these are numbers and the order you
have to push the buttons?

SAM: Except we have two twos, and no three?

LAURA: I know. One, two, four!

TALIESIN: No, because you have to hit one, and
then you have to hit the two together--

SAM: And then why not three? Okay, all right. Can
we do a sweep for more?

TRAVIS: Can I clear off the door area that we
walked through?

MATT: So Grog, you go through, (rapid blowing).
Blowing around. Okay. Make an investigation check.

MARISHA: I take my mantle and start doing a--

MATT: You clear that archway very well, around the
door. You do reveal Dwarven runes on the upper

right corner, upper left corner, lower right, and
lower left corner of the doorframe.

TRAVIS: I only know Dwarven writing. I don't know
runes.

MATT: Well, the runes are part of the Dwarven
language.

TRAVIS: The runes are part of the Dwarven
language, so I know them.

LAURA: Pike goes over and she helps you.

TRAVIS: Help me, Pike! Yeah, I would like to
decipher what these symbols mean.

LAURA: "If you lift me up, I could see the ones
above the door!"

LIAM: "Yeah, the last time I wanted you to do it
on your own, but I think we're pressed for time."

TRAVIS: I hold her up to the upper left corner of
the doorway.

MATT: Okay, so turning around, upper left corner.
Okay. That one is the Dwarven rune that represents

the number three.

TRAVIS: Three. All right. Now, to the upper
right-hand corner.

MATT: That is the number one.

TRAVIS: Okay. I put her on the ground and I say,
okay, look at the lower right-hand corner.

MATT: So lower right-hand corner would be a two.

TRAVIS: And now the lower left-hand corner.

MATT: A four.

LAURA: Oh, yeah! We know! That's the amount of
times you have to push the button!

TALIESIN: So one-one, two-two-two-two, three,
four-four.

SAM: Possibly.

LAURA: Wait, I think we reversed it.

LIAM: How long does your unseen servant last?

SAM: Not too long.

LIAM: How long? An hour? Ten minutes?

SAM: I'll look in my memory. One hour, but I have
to be close to it. How big is this room?

MATT: It's a 20-foot radius from the center of the
brazier, so it's 40 feet on each side.

TALIESIN: Is our physicality of this map correct?
If we show you this?

LIAM: Well, I have this jar. It's an oil of
etherealness. You could potentially be standing in

here, but not be in here. Lasts an hour, though.
Same time gap as your friend. You could stand in

here and not be in here.

SAM: From the doorway to the mirror, is it less
than 60 feet?

MATT: Yes.

SAM: Oh, then I can be out of the door. 
Am I right with what I wrote down there?

MATT: All right, so this is the-- facing from the
inside--

SAM: Yeah, from the brazier-- Frasier Crane.
Looking at the door that we came in. Right?

MATT: I'm going to have to draw you one. I think
you guys got confused on that one.

LAURA: I think me and Travis got it right.

SAM: I think, Matt, you're wrong.

TRAVIS: I have the same thing as Laura.

LIAM: I'm pretty sure it's up up down down left
right left right A B A B.

LAURA: I hope we passed the test.

MATT: Okay.

LAURA: Did we get it right?

MATT: There, that's what you get! Sorry, I'm
limited in my reach right now.

MARISHA: I love that we all did something similar
but all wrote something different. We're like,

numbers, somewhere!

MATT: Yep, almost. Almost.

MARISHA: Did you help us, or are you just saying
"almost?"

MATT: I'm saying, looking back and seeing where
the numbers lie and the runes in there, you have

the correct configuration.

LAURA: (victorious laughter)

MARISHA: I think this is right. I think you have
this. I think I have the right part of this and

you have the right part of this.

LAURA: We'll copy it and you can see what the fuck
is correct.

TRAVIS: Yes.

LAURA: No, this is wrong. I'm just going to draw
it. (counting)

SAM: Guys, Shadow of War! It's a great game by--
I don't know, who makes it? Warner Brothers!

LAURA: Okay, so now we know the order to push the
buttons and the amount of times to push the

buttons.

SAM: Yes, so now we've just got to do it.

TRAVIS: Should we check around the mirror frame to
see if there's anything to dust off? The mirror frame?

TALIESIN: I gave it a little bit of a rub.

MARISHA: I'm going to go up and go tap-tap-tap on
the mirror.

MATT: Okay. It taps.

TRAVIS: Can I wipe off the edges around the frame
and see if there's anything around the frame of

the mirror, since I seem to be so good at this?

MATT: Make an investigation check.

TRAVIS: Three.

MATT: Three. You smear a bit of ash, but
eventually get some semblance of shine through.

Nothing catches your eye.

TRAVIS: It's clear. We found everything there is
to find.

MARISHA: Grog draws boobs on himself in the
reflection out of the ash.

SAM: All right, should we leave the room and have
Mr. Invisible start tapping buttons? All right,

we'll do that.

LAURA: We step just outside the door again and let
his invisible servant push buttons.

LIAM: (singing) Scanlan Man, Scanlan Man. Does
whatever a Scanlan can. Makes a guy, pushes

buttons, Scanlan Man-- I'm out.

TALIESIN: Look out!

LIAM, MARISHA, and TALIESIN: (singing) Here comes
the Scanlan Man.

SAM: Would a person who cannot fly be able to
touch the top buttons?

MATT: Nope.

SAM: Shit.

TRAVIS: Well, there's no saying that it will
activate if we do it correctly.

LIAM: Also, what about shooting the button or
firing an arrow at a button?

LAURA: Yeah but the buttons are on this side.

TALIESIN: How high up are the buttons?

MATT: The buttons? The top are about ten feet up.

TALIESIN: So if he had something that was-- if he
had a mop, basically, he could probably tap it.

LAURA: The buttons are on the side of the mirror,
so we could shoot arrows at them.

TALIESIN: But only if we're in there and then we
don't need an unseen servant to do it.

SAM: Want to give him a pole or something?

TALIESIN: Let's give him a stick.

SAM: Do we have a stick in the bag?

TRAVIS: I have a lance.

TALIESIN: Yeah, he has a lance.

TRAVIS: It's almost broken.

TALIESIN: My god, it will finally be useful one
last time.

LIAM: We do have three trammels.

TALIESIN: No! We are not disengaging a smoke alarm
with a fucking trammel. There is a limit!

TRAVIS: You have a slightly splintered lance.

LAURA: Okay. Let's hit buttons. Let's do it! Let's
get through this room.

TALIESIN: Let's explain to the unseen servant what he's
supposed to do.

SAM: Matt, can he hold a lance, or is that
violating some-- he's not allowed to hold

weapons.

MATT: He can hold them. He can't attack; he
cannot be a combatant. It can hold things for you.

LIAM: He's like a Kids in the Hall character.

MATT: Kind of, yeah. You're not wrong.

SAM: I conjure an unseen servant, whom I will name
Simon Two.

TALIESIN: Electric Boogaloo.

LIAM: Not cool, man, not cool.

MATT: All right. There's this brief shimmer, and
you watch as a bit of ash displaces on the ground

where two footfalls (landing noises).

SAM: All right, Simon Two, take this lance. We're
going to go tell you what buttons to press over

there, good speed-- good speed?

(laughter)

SAM: Godspell. You'll be fine. Hope you don't like
burning alive. So you tell me what to tell him,

because I don't have the paper. Upper left? Upper
right? What do we start with?

MARISHA: It's this. Tell him to do this.

LAURA: The reflection of that.

SAM: Okay, so two upper right. Two pokes. Oh,
wait.

LAURA: So the upper left corner from where we're
looking.

SAM: Yes, we're going to go mirror image of this,
so project that across the room.

MATT: Okay.

SAM: Oh, that was the mistake.

MATT: Okay, so pressing the upper left twice.

SAM: Yes, mirror image of this, so upper left.
Let's try that.

MATT: Heads over, holding the lance. You watch the
lance wobble, and it misses a couple times,

(clicking) hits the button, and it clicks inward.
The lance is pulled back and the button presses

back out outward into its position.

SAM: Any door?

MATT: No door.

LAURA: We'll know if we push it again then we did
it the wrong order.

MATT: Second time, (clicking) pulls off, the
button depresses.

TALIESIN: All right, keep going.

SAM: So below it, two presses.

LAURA: In the corner, bottom corner.

SAM: Just like your name, Simon: two.

MATT: (clicking)

SAM: Okay, opposite corner, up. One press.

LAURA: Upper right-hand corner.

MATT: (clicking)

SAM: And then below that, bottom corner. Four
presses.

MATT: (clicking)

(laughter)

MATT: The fourth one hits. There's a moment of
pause, and the mirror shimmers faintly. You watch

as, almost like a stone thrown into the middle of
a still pond, begins to ripple from the center, and as

it ripples, each ripple seems to fade, until
eventually the five-foot-wide mirror is now an

oval portal that leads to darkness behind it.

LAURA: Let's go in!

MARISHA: I told you there was a room behind the
mirror.

TRAVIS: Yeah, let's go. Hurry! We don't know how
long it will stay open for.

SAM: Simon Two is coming with us.

MATT: Okay. You hear the faint footfalls of sound
behind, and Trinket takes a moment to try and

squeeze through this small entranceway. Trinket
had a hard enough time getting through the

incline. (moans) Into the necklace. You make your
way through the opposite side, and as you all step

through, the portal remains open for at least a
moment.

LAURA: Hey, we did it, guys.

SAM and TRAVIS: We beat a door.

MARISHA: Guys, it took 111 episodes, but we bested
a door.

LIAM: The last episode of the third campaign will
be a door that we do not open.

MATT: So the darkness you step through leads into
a ten-foot-wide hallway of similar dwarven stone.

Same slightly angled hallways about ten feet tall
or so, about five or six foot wide. You get a few

steps in and about 20 or 30 seconds after you guys
make your way in, the mirror portal behind closes up.

LIAM: Can we see?

MARISHA: Can you see through it?

MATT: Through the mirror?

LIAM: I meant where we are. Are we in pitch
black?

MATT: You're in pitch black, but you guys with
darkvision can see there is a staircase not too

far, maybe ten feet from where you stand into this
next hallway.

TRAVIS: Iron stairs? Stone stairs?

MATT: Stone stairs.

LIAM: I've got a dagger out.

MATT: All right, lights up briefly and you get a
little bit of a vision beyond that, and it's

gradual stone steps. They're not too wide; they're
made for dwarven gait, so there are many steps

that are relatively shallow.

TRAVIS: These are dwarven steps that are
relatively shallow.

SAM: We can see it, Grog.

LIAM: Pike says, "That's actually right".

LAURA: Is there any traps?

MATT: You're welcome to search for traps.

LIAM: And I'm going to scoot 40 feet up the stairs
and look as I go for traps. One. I'm taking it,

but I'm still going and looking for traps.

MATT: You do have reliable talent, don't forget.

LIAM: Does that oversee ones? Because I've been
counting ones as ones for a long time.

MATT: The reliable talent as a rogue specifically
says any roll lower than a ten you take as a ten.

SAM: Any roll?

MATT: Well, not any roll. Any ability check he has
to make.

LIAM: Okay, well, we wrongly assumed that ones and
20s were king, but no.

LAURA: So he rolled way better than me because I
rolled a ten.

LIAM: That's an 18. My one is an 18 now.

MATT: Yeah, because that's one of the cool things
about rogues. You guys make your way up about 45,

50 or so feet up the stairway, you keeping an eye
out, no traps, nothing catches your eye as iffy or

strange, and the stairs now switch back into
another set. It's a small landing and then it

continues upward.

LIAM: Okay, but I'm only going to go 40 feet in
advance. That's like ten fucked rolls of mine from

the past 30 games! Anyway, I love it.

MARISHA: So it's a big 180, going right up?

MATT: Yeah, it's a switchback. The staircase
ascends, then there's a landing, and it continues

upward and around.

LAURA: Do we hear anything?

MATT: Make a perception check.

TALIESIN: I'll join in that perception.

MATT: So you're joining them up the staircase?

TALIESIN: I'm behind. You know, the standard--

MATT: All right, so you guys are keeping up.

MARISHA: Did you fuck the roll, too? Oh, what the
fuck!

TALIESIN: I got a 25.

MATT: Seriously, welcome back after two weeks and
people just cannot-- wow.

LIAM: But do you remember when we were at home and
we'd go six weeks without playing and we'd spend

45 minutes trying to remember what we did, how the
rules worked, what our names were, who you were.

TALIESIN: Vex is right.

TRAVIS: 25, you said?

TALIESIN: 25.

MATT: 25. Okay. It's hard to discern what shifting
in the distance is not the rumbling from the

ever-occasional titan footfalls, but nothing seems
to catch your attention. Occasionally, you hear

dislodged rocks and stones clacking across the
stone floor and the steps, and every now and then

you catch a stone or two fall past and eventually
come to rest either near or below you. You

continue up the switchback stairs and lead into a
third switchback that continues upward.

LIAM: 40 feet in advance.

MARISHA: We are following behind.

LAURA: Are you looking for traps as you go, brother?

LIAM: I am. That is an 18, anyway.

MARISHA: I still have my hands guiding Percy, our
blind human.

MATT: Leading the old man forward.

TALIESIN: (old man voice) Where's Steven?

MARISHA: (laughs) Where's Steven?

MATT: You do not find any other traps. There's no
other issues that worry you upon this climb. You

do eventually come to the top of the third
switchback stairway and it leads you into a slight

curved cavern. The stairs stop and it leads into a
continuation of the dwarf-like hallway structure

that you had below, but it is curving around now,
in sections. I would say, as opposed to a gradual

curve, the design in the structure here has a very
rigid, geometric shape, so the curvature is in

sections.

LIAM: Yeah, I appreciate it as I go, and I look
for traps.

MATT: All right, go for it.

LIAM: Love it. That's an 18.

MATT: Okay. Coming around the edge: no traps, no
plates. Nothing catches your attention. However,

this tunnel comes to an end, and it opens up into
a larger crevasse than the one that you previously

saw that held a number of city buildings of the
remains of Thomara. It looks to be about 100 to

120 feet tall, you assume, from the bits of the
stalactites that you can see, barely reaching the

edge of your visual range. Very faint bit of light
here, bioluminescent fungus in a dull orangish

color that dots the edges of this interior
chamber.

LIAM: And is it like where I killed that
motherfucker? They were built into the cliff face, right?

MATT: Yes. This one is larger than the one you
were in before, and you can see just beyond your

visual range, a number of these buildings,
partially crumbled in some places, some still

standing obstinately against the ever-shifting
interior of the titan's form, the chamber curling

upward as the ceiling crawls higher and higher
just beyond your visual range, and you can faintly

see the images of dozens of thin bridges that
weave over themselves across different levels, up

into the higher portion.

LIAM: I want to confirm an intuition and use my
last Divine Sense and feel undead.

MATT: Okay, what's the range on that one?

LIAM: 60 feet.

MATT: 60 feet? You do not sense any undead within
the 60-foot range.

MARISHA: I think we're in the lungs. I think we're
in its chest cavity.

LIAM: Speaking into the earrings; they're all
behind me. I think we're in a more populous place

with the undead cannibals, know what I mean?
There's a very large cavern in here and a lot of room.

TALIESIN: I'd be grateful if anyone got a sample
of that bioluminescent fungus.

MARISHA: I can get that. I'm interested.

LAURA: Do you want me to fly up and get some?

LIAM: We're on a schedule here.

MARISHA: Well, if it's on the way. We have to go
that way.

LAURA: We have to go up, right? Does it look like
there's openings in the ceiling?

MATT: Well currently you're the only one who's
stepped into this entrance to look up, the rest of

you are now exiting into the chamber.

LIAM: I'll wait, obviously. Nothing's going to
explode on my friends, so they catch up with me.

MATT: Okay, so they're all behind you now where
this entrance is, and as you look past it, this

hallway that you're entering, it looks like there
was a doorway here. There was some sort of hinge

on the edge that held a door that had since been
broken or toppled forward. You can see pieces of

the door that once held this entranceway, and a
number of the buildings immediately to the right

and left. That's where you stand, what do you want
to do?

LAURA: Does it look like there's any footprints
coming in and out of the doorway that we came from?

MATT: Make an investigation check.

TRAVIS: Can I look for a doorknob or a keyhole?

LIAM: Everything we were told is that this place
is full of undead cannibals.

LAURA: 23.

MATT: Not in a long time.

TRAVIS: Is there shattered remnants of the door?

MATT: Yeah, you see a couple of shards here and
there--

TRAVIS: Any doorknob or a keyhole that's on the
ground or anything?

MATT: Make an investigation check. Lot of
investigation checks today.

TRAVIS: Two.

MATT: You scramble about and find a couple of
pieces that might be, but no, it's just more stone.

MARISHA: Can I see any stairs carved in the side,
in the walls, trying to head up to this-- is that

what you just checked?

LAURA: No, that's what I was about to look for,
too.

LIAM: Is there any movement, because there's
bioluminescent shit on the walls in here, so

there's a little bit of light, right? Yeah. 26.

MATT: 26. As you glance about-- once again, your
vision, because there is very little light in here

and the very, very faint bits of fungus in the
distance that give you a sense of the shape of

this entire chamber. There isn't enough light for
you to make out any shape beyond the exterior of

your visual range, so you can't really tell.

LIAM: A second thing I want to look for is what
other exits from this gigantic cavern. Ways

through, up. Yeah, you looked, but I didn't look.

MATT: Let me finish what I was saying first.

TRAVIS: Roll! Roll again.

MATT: But based on the size of this chamber and
the bits of what small elements of structures that

you can see of the architecture within, this
definitely appears to be more of the heart of the

city of Thomara when it was once at its ancient
height. You can see at the very edge of your

visual range a cracked central fountain that is
empty and dry, and you see, just beyond your

range, the exterior of a large temple-like
building that rises out of the ability to see any

more of its height and structure.

TALIESIN: Temple.

MATT: But like I said, you guys are still standing
at the entrance to this cavern.

MARISHA: What about the temple? Why?

SAM: Want to fly through here? Can we fly?

LIAM: I don't think we want to stay here--

SAM: I know, that's why we just fly through.

LIAM: Find another exit, yeah, but where?

TRAVIS: I'd like to see the temple, if I can.

SAM: What are you talking about?

TRAVIS: Well look, all right, my gloves--

LAURA: Keep your voice down.

TRAVIS: (whispering) My gloves come from the heart
of a ruined primordial titan. So if maybe they

harvested pieces of my gloves, and it's in a
temple, I don't know, you smart people could do

something with that.

LIAM: Right, what's your plan? You expect us to
come up with a plan to explain why your gloves are

connected to that temple, and you're going to get
what? A Mighty Morphin Power Ranger bonus for doing so?

TRAVIS: Yes.

MARISHA: Are your Titanstone Knuckles exalted
yet?

TRAVIS: Yep. They're just buzzing.

LIAM: Yeah, are they still dildoing on your
fingers?

MARISHA: Are they buzzing more?

TRAVIS: Are they humming more?

MATT: Doesn't appear to have changed.

TRAVIS: Nope, just humming.

MARISHA: Step two steps closer.

TRAVIS: Two steps closer to the temple.

MARISHA: Do they appear to be buzzing more?

TRAVIS: Are they appearing buzzing more?

MATT: Make a perception check.

TRAVIS: Ooh! 19.

MATT: Not bad. Nope.

TALIESIN: Is the temple on the way? Does it make
sense to cross through the city, or does it make

sense to fly up?

LIAM: We're moving towards Vasselheim now. I'm
negative on our chances of dealing with this

before Vasselheim, but that's the goal, right?

TALIESIN: We've got some time, and I feel like
this city is an opportunity to find some more

advantages.

TRAVIS: We are also looking for the Sword of Kas.
What's if it's in the temple?

SAM: Why would Vecna keep the thing that could
kill Vecna near Vecna?

LIAM: I'm pulling Percy aside. I hear you, but
this is a city that has existed here for a long

time. Vecna didn't create this city. Vecna
doesn't own these people. This is a fucking

mountain that existed and now they're going for a
ride. What do these people have to do with Vecna?

TALIESIN: It's not a city that just existed.

LIAM: No?

TALIESIN: This is a giant primordial beast that
people inhabited. God only knows what existed in here.

MARISHA: Yeah, but as we've already seen from the
other tomb, it's already been heavily, heavily

plundered.

LIAM: And Vecna's just a user. This place was just
sitting there. He lifted it up and took it away.

These assholes don't have anything to do with--

TRAVIS: Why did he choose this?

MARISHA: How far away is the temple? Do we know?
Can we football range guess it?

MATT: I'd say, because you guys have darkvision of
60 feet?

TALIESIN: If gods really understood how this world
worked, this would not be happening right now.

MATT: It's at about the 50, 55 foot areas where
the wall begins, then it vanishes beyond that.

LIAM: Percy, this shitbird has appeared like three
times wherever we were.

LAURA: Well, he's not going to be able to do that
right now because I've got a fucking ring.

TALIESIN: He doesn't necessarily know this place
as well as--

MARISHA: Hang on. How long have we been in here,
versus how far have we been from Vasselheim?

Because we are on a time crunch.

TRAVIS: 200 miles away once we entered is how far
away we are from Vasselheim. 200 miles. With steps of?

TALIESIN: What was the average land speed of a
laden undead?

MATT: You've been within the titan for, I'd say,
roughly three and a half hours, maybe.

LIAM: Yeah, he's 110 miles out from Vasselheim, at
this point.

TRAVIS: We have time to check the temple.

SAM: All right, let's swoop in and swoop out.

MARISHA: Super fucking fast!

TALIESIN: I'm not even saying look in it, let's
take a look at what it--

LAURA: Did I see any stairs?

MATT: You do not see any staircases within a
60-foot radius of where you're standing.

TALIESIN: We might be harder to spot if we stay on
the ground for now, anyway.

MARISHA: I just want to say, we gave you guys the
other temple, in which you found your stupid

waistband, but we got really fucked up from it!
Everything has a consequence and a price and shit.

Nothing is free.

LAURA: I'm going to cast Pass Without a fucking
Trace. It's my last Pass Without a Trace, but I'm afraid--

TRAVIS: No, don't do it.

LAURA: What if we bring out an entire fucking city
of undead dwarves upon us?

MARISHA: Let me do it. I have Pass Without a Trace
and one more 2nd-level spell left. I'll do it.

Save yours.

LIAM: I'm also going to put something on the table
here: we're trying to save Vasselheim, but we're

also trying to save the world. We might not be
able to do this without recharging before Vasselheim.

TALIESIN: I'm aware.

SAM: You want to go to sleep in this undead
city?!

LIAM: No, but we're trying to save the world, not
just a city.

SAM: So sacrificing Vasselheim so that we can feel
better about a fight?

LIAM: What if we lose the fight Scanlan? Then who
fucking cares? Vasselheim is gone. Westruun is

gone. Kaylie is gone. Everything's fucking gone if
we fuck this up!

SAM: Well, let's stay on the path and see how long
it takes.

MARISHA: How about this? Hold. Wait! We still
don't know how to get up there, right?

SAM: Is that purple eyeliner?

MARISHA: Yeah, do you like it? Thank you. It's a
little metallic. Thank you, I bought it while I

was waiting for--

TRAVIS and LAURA: Oh my god!

MARISHA: Okay. I hate to say split the party, but
what if we split the party? What if a few of you

check out your fucking temple, and then the rest
of us try to figure out a way to get up.

TRAVIS: I'm cool. I'll vote for a temple party.

MARISHA: Temple party. Who else is on temple
party?

SAM: They need somebody who can help them in
there.

LIAM: I hate the idea, but I'm the stealthiest
motherfucker in this room.

TALIESIN: And then you three on the carpet, you on
the broom.

TRAVIS: I need the carpet.

MARISHA: So wait, just the two of you are going to
go check out the carpet?

LAURA: Vax is going in with you.

SAM: I feel like one person with magic should go
with them. I'll go with them.

TALIESIN: We're all ear-pieced.

MARISHA: Okay, so Grog--

LIAM: Everybody but Keyleth.

SAM: No, it's Keyleth, Vex, and Pike are going
searching. The boys are going in the temple, and

the girls are going searching.

MARISHA: Okay, cool, I'm on board.

TALIESIN: This is in no way, by the way, an
amazing mirror of that one time underneath

Kraghammer. They're just going to find another
Clarota.

LIAM: The boys all die. The girls go to glory.

LAURA: I want to kiss Percy before he goes. Don't
die in this stupid temple.

TALIESIN: I will not die in this stupid temple.

SAM: I'm going, too.

TALIESIN: I slap him in the face.

LAURA: Right on, Scanlan. Sorry, Percy.

MATT: Who's traveling in what group?

LAURA: Girls are going to look for stairs, the
boys are going in the stupid temple.

LIAM: I yank the druid in for a kiss.

MATT: Okay.

SAM: Oh wait, shit. Your fucking ring.

LAURA: Fuck! My fucking ring! We can't split the
party.

TALIESIN: Okay, can't split the party. We all go
looking for the stairs. Oh, you asshole, stop it!

(laughter)

LAURA: He was really excited about it!

MATT: I was waiting on that.

LAURA: Oh my god, he was so excited about it.

SAM: All right, into the temple. Come on, let's
just fucking go to the fucking temple.

MATT: I was like, you guys literally had this
conversation an hour ago, but okay.

TALIESIN: Whatever we do, we can't split the party
(fast-forward noise). Okay, we're going to split the party.

TRAVIS: Sam saved our asses.

TALIESIN: That was Cabin in the Woods shit.

LIAM: 40 feet in advance, Vax walks ahead of the
group, hating himself. Here we go.

MATT: Go for it. What are you doing, you're
checking for traps?

LIAM: I'm checking for enemies hiding.

MATT: So as you push forward--

LAURA: We're stealthed, we're Pass Without a
Traced.

MATT: Okay, then roll some stealth, guys.

LAURA: She Pass Without a Traced us.

MATT: Right, then roll some stealth.

SAM: Oh, we're all rolling stealth?

LIAM: 34.

SAM: 25.

TALIESIN: 26.

MARISHA: 26.

LAURA: 39.

TRAVIS: Natural one.

MARISHA: Are you serious?

SAM: He's so excited about that temple.

LAURA: Natural 20 for Pike! Oh wait, she gets
disadvantage.

MATT: She has the boots that make it not at
disadvantage.

TALIESIN: First time ever.

LIAM: But that's a lot of good.

LAURA: So much good for one shitty--

MATT: You begin to push forward past the cracked
fountain, heading ahead of everyone, keeping an

eye out for what's ahead of you. The high walls of
the temple-like structure begin to reveal

themselves, standing ominous over the
debris-strewn streets with shattered carts and

bone fragments. The bone fragments faintly quaking
beneath every footfall of the walking mountain

that you currently are walking through. You see
long-decomposed dwarvish bodies brutalized beyond

reanimation lying scattered across the broken
street paths ahead of you, deep grooves marking

the splintered bone. A tangled network of
partially ruined catwalks begin to reveal

themselves above you, carved from the mountain,
contains a ghostly image of a multi-level

metropolis long fallen. You, make a perception
check.

LIAM: 29.

MATT: 29. You can see, as soon as you get to where
the fountain is, the center of the street ahead of

you. Dozens of slow shifting creatures moving
throughout the streets and rubble of crumbling

structures. You can see now, many of the undead
citizens of the catacombs are now wandering,

shaken awake by the lumbering titan that now
carries them within. You also see a very faint

blue pulsing glow emanating from one of the
windows of the temple.

LIAM: Can we put the goliath on the carpet so he
doesn't kick something or be himself?

LAURA: We don't know that he rolled shittily.

LIAM: I know that, but he's a big, blundering
mother fucking asshole when he wants to be--

TRAVIS: On the chain. Literally on the text
chain.

MATT: Which, as you're saying this, you hear a
(clattering), and you glance over real fast and

watch as Grog is walking by and the edge of his--
which weapon do you have attuned right now? You

have the Blood Axe? The Blood Axe hits the edge of
a large dwarven statue that had fallen off at a

corner angle and is currently being held by a
small barrel, and as the axe hits it, it shifts

(crashing) and rolls and comes to a rest for a
second with this clattering, grinding sound. Parts

of it chip and break, but most of it remains
strong and sturdy upon impact. At which point, you

see at the edge of your visual range, about seven
of the wandering creatures go (raspy groan) and

begin slowly slinking their way in the direction
of the noise.

SAM: So a rock just fell?

TRAVIS: A big statue just fell.

SAM: And is in pieces?

MATT: Parts of it are broken. It's still pretty
sturdy.

TALIESIN: Let's try and serpentine around and see
if we can trace back.

LIAM: And they're to the right or the left or
ahead of us?

MATT: They're ahead of you.

LAURA: Do they look like they saw us?

LIAM: Go left. Jenga, jenga, jenga. Can we put
Grog on the carpet now?

TALIESIN: Yep.

MARISHA: We're trying to go up, right?

SAM: No, we're trying to go towards the temple.

LAURA: Towards that pulsing light.

LIAM: We've got a little bit of business, a little
bit of activity ahead of us, so we want to curve

to the left.

TRAVIS: All right, we move accordingly.

MATT: All right. So you guys move along the left
and curve around the side. As you begin to move

along the edge, you watch as about eight of these
mostly-skeletal dwarvish corpses begin to shamble

in the direction of where the noise came from. You
can see elements of their long-mummified skin

pulled tight against elements of the rib cage and
the skull. Bits of chipped teeth, now broken

against whatever things it's attempted to chew on
its long un-life. As they move past, two of them

glance over in the direction of Grog, and then all
of them shift over in the direction and begin

rushing forward in your path.

LIAM: What's the distance?

MATT: At this point, they're probably about 50 or
so feet from where you are.

LIAM: Oh shit!

LAURA: We don't want to make too much noise. I'm
going to shoot a couple.

TRAVIS: We could just go straight up.

LAURA: There's only eight of them. We can take
eight undead.

LIAM: Pickle walks forward and takes a
knee and waits with her holy symbol

of Sarenrae, waiting for them.

LAURA: I take two of them by surprise. That's
auto-crit.

LIAM: Vax does the same, watching his badass
sister, and Pike waits to turn whatever's left of them.

LAURA: Yeah, they're super-silent arrows.

LIAM: So what happens first?

MATT: All right. She's preparing for it, right?

LIAM: Yeah. She's waiting until she sees them.

MATT: Oh, well she also has darkvision of 60
feet.

LIAM: So she's waiting until they're within range
of her holy abilities.

MATT: What's the radius on that one?

LIAM: That's a good question, because I'm a rogue
paladin. (sighs) Goddamn it.

MATT: That's all right.

LIAM: What if I look in the sorceror rules?

MATT: Nope. 30 feet.

LIAM: 30 feet. So she's waiting for the twins to
do their work and anything that's left over she's

going to scatter.

MATT: Okay. All right. So as she holds position--

LAURA: So it's auto-crit?

MATT: They know you're there. It's not a surprise.
There's as threat, and they're rushing. But you do

have advantage on the hits because they don't see
you.

LAURA: Well great, that's great. 20?

MATT: That definitely hits.

LAURA: Okay. Oh, the other one super-duper hits.
It's a 19 plus 14.

LIAM: 25, 31, natural 20.

MATT: Okay. All right. So go ahead and roll damage
on those. Are you shooting two different skeletons

or one each?

LIAM: I'm after my sister. She talked before I
did.

LAURA: I'll see how the first arrow hits?

MATT: Okay.

LAURA: 14. Oh, I didn't Hunter's Mark. Whatever.
14, 15, 16. Two lightning damage. Do I add

anything? Sneak attack!

TALIESIN: Been a while.

LAURA: How do we D&D? Plus ten sneak attack.

MATT: Okay. So the first skeleton, the arrow hits
it and the torso explodes behind with ribs

shattering and scattering across the stonework,
its body falling and collapsing to the ground.

LAURA: I hit another one.

MATT: Yes, you do.

LIAM: Oh, and we go first, so it's advantage.

LAURA: 14 plus four lightning damage. And that is
plus eight.

TRAVIS: 26.

MATT: 26. This one right behind it, its jaw
unhinged slightly. Its tongue made of this slick

rotting material that dangles through the hole in
the bottom of the jaw. Comes around the corner,

and you watch as part of its head explodes off one
side from the secondary arrow, taking out what

remains of the center of its skull, and the body
crumples to the ground. Two skeletons down.

LIAM: Sneak attack hits the first time we connect,
right?

MATT: Yeah. You don't have to roll damage for that
one.

LAURA: Oh. Sorry, I did sneak attack on the second
arrow.

MATT: Well, you can do sneak attack once per
round.

LAURA: Okay. I did eight damage too much.

MATT: It was still enough.

LAURA: Okay.

MATT: You don't have to roll damage for sneak
attack.

LIAM: So then that one's gone?

MATT: A third skeleton now is ruined. You hit it
with the arrow in the middle of the spinal column,

and it folds on itself.

LIAM: Okay. So paladin action-action and my bonus
action. So that's the first of three. The last

one's the one that was a critical hit so the
second one goes onto the next whole skeleton. It's

just an eight.

MATT: Okay. This one the arrow slides into the
side of the skull, and it keeps coming forward

towards Grog.

LIAM: Okay. And then the last critical hit, which
is Whisper again, because it bamfed back, is two

plus eight is ten. Two and three. It's not that
much. It's 15 total.

MATT: Okay. And that one does finish it. So that's
three skeletons down. Grog, I want to to

individually roll an initiative check for me.

TRAVIS: Natural 20. With Gil's dice.

MATT: So as you guys are watching this happen, the
other five rush in to close the gap, but you are at

the ready, and you get to strike before they do.

TRAVIS: Nice. Am I hitting them? Yeah, Okay.
Reckless, great weapon master. 31 for the first one.

MATT: That hits.

TRAVIS: Okay, cool.

MATT: Your minimum damage will kill them. So as
the first one comes up towards you, you swing up.

As you slam into it, you watch as its bony body
blows up against the side of the nearby stone

building and then scrapes to the ground.

TRAVIS: Can I use the other strike on another?

MATT: Yes, you can.

TRAVIS: Reckless great weapon. That'll hit. That's
like 30.

TALIESIN: If there's anything left on Grog by the
end of this, I'll try to swipe them off with my sword.

TRAVIS: 32.

MATT: All righty. So two more detonate on this
point. So there's three left. They're closing in

on Grog. Does Pike want to take her turn?

TRAVIS: We might want to save that Turnt Undead.

LAURA: No, I think we should save.

LIAM: I've already said it, but she's whispering
to me to hold. She's half of Pike right now.

You're half of Pike right now.

TALIESIN: I'd like to pop in and see if I could
take a couple--

MATT: Make an initiative roll.

LAURA: Don't shoot, Percy.

TALIESIN: I'm not; I'm going to use my sword.

LIAM: Pike holds, breathing hard, looking at them
coming on.

TALIESIN: 16.

MATT: Yeah, that beats them by one. So yeah, as
the three remaining ones start charging in towards Grog--

TALIESIN: I'm going to run in, draw the silvered
sword, and take some swipes.

MATT: Go for it.

TALIESIN: Let's take three swipes right out of
here.

LAURA: Pike can use her mace on anything left in
that area.

TALIESIN: That's one natural 20, one natural 19.
Do I crit on a 19 with the sword?

MATT: No.

TALIESIN: Okay, never mind. And a two. But that
might be enough, because I have a really high--

that's a 15 as my lowest to hit. Does a 15 hit?

MATT: 15 does hit. Yes.

TALIESIN: So the 15 is-- That's 14 piercing damage
to the first one with a silvered sword.

MATT: Okay. You rush up and you carve through the
first skeleton, and it breaks on the ground in

front of you.

TALIESIN: Number two is 13 points of damage to the
second one.

MATT: Okay. The second one, you bring the blade
down into the skull and cleave it in half. You

watch as part of its skull breaks off to the side
and the jaw falls to the ground and the rest

crumbles in place.

TALIESIN: I twirl around and take my third
wonderful pirouette attack, which is 20 points of

damage.

MATT: Okay, and as the final one lunges forward,
in a fervent-- strangely faster than you expect

for a skeletal undead, it begins to accelerate
towards Grog. And with that, you take the blade

and take the head right off at the neck, and it
falls and crumples to the ground.

MARISHA: So it's like 28 Days Later zombies?

TRAVIS: 28 Days Later, they run.

MARISHA: He said that they were fast.

MATT: Well, the last one-- it was flavor.

MARISHA: Just wanted to make sure they weren't
special.

MATT: Okay. As you finish the fray and hold
yourself, you wait and wait. You do not hear or

notice any more advancing undead from that
direction.

TRAVIS: Okay, how about I don't move and somebody
with flying ability go to check out that blue

glowy window?

TALIESIN: We have to stick together.

LAURA: Is the glowy window within 60 feet?

TALIESIN: No, it's far.

TRAVIS: When we were at the opening, we were 50 to
60 feet away.

MATT: The temple where you guys were at, at the
time was 50 feet away from you, but you would

have crossed the other side of the hall. So now it's
about 100 feet away from you. At this distance,

you can see it's a round, almost cylindrical
building, Colosseum-esque. And there's a small

square window about every 25 to 30 feet. And it's
big. It's large, but you can see that faint glow

between multiple windows from this distance.

TRAVIS: So should we fly up to that window?

TALIESIN: I think it'd be safer to stay on the
ground level and sneak. Because if we're the air,

they are going to see us.

TRAVIS: Let's do it.

MARISHA: And we still have Pass Without a Trace,
so let's go.

LAURA: Yes, we do. She cast it.

MATT: All right, now that this brief combat has
finished, those who took place in it, which would

be you, Vax, Grog, and Percy have to remake your
stealth checks.

LAURA: You're like, "Gladly!"

TALIESIN: Yes.

LAURA: What about Pike? Because she just knelt
down. She didn't really fight.

MATT: She stepped out of her stealth. She was
making herself visible.

LAURA: My natural 20 for Pike, wasted!

TALIESIN: 23.

LIAM: We still have Pass Without Trace?

MARISHA: Yes. I didn't do anything.

TRAVIS: 26.

MARISHA: Keeping that concentration.

TALIESIN AND MARISHA: (singing) Concentration.
Concentration.

LIAM: You're the doctor! Keep your patients on the
run!

LAURA: 30 for Pike. 29 for me.

MATT: All right. You guys begin to slowly make
your way along the left wall of this large

cavern.

LIAM: 37, by the way.

MATT: Good to know. As you slowly move through the
shadows, dodging through open doorways and through

windows, trying the best you can to stay out from
the center thoroughfare of this opening, you see

more and more of these undead. Dozens, maybe even
a hundred have crossed your path at the perimeter

of your visual range and you can see in the
catwalks above too, with the faint bit of the

orange glow, occasionally shapes breaking across
the orange. This entire cavern is swarming.

LAURA: (whispering) Do we still have the thing?

SAM: Oh, the filter? The censer?

LAURA: Do we have it in the Bag of Holding?

TALIESIN: We also have the herbs.

LAURA: What if we use it? What if we use it and it
just repels them?

TALIESIN: When it's time. We don't have a lot of
it.

MARISHA: Yeah, it's a very small amount.

LIAM: Is it ready to go, though?

TALIESIN: Let's prepare it, and when it's time--

LIAM: Is it ready to go, though?

MARISHA: Yeah it's dried. I spent that time. I
spent time during the break.

TALIESIN: It's just burning the herbs, though. We
don't need the censer. Just hold it in your hands.

LIAM: Do we have any sense of where we started in
this giant cavern? Or are we totally fucking

turned around?

MATT: No. I mean you have a decent sense. You are
maybe 100 to 150 feet from where you began.

Because you've been moving slowly. Staying
stealthily, you're moving very carefully and very

slowly and judging by the shape of the cavern and
where you are currently, you're about halfway

through it, or close to halfway.

TALIESIN: It's good that we didn't go on the
catwalk.

MATT: The temple's on the opposite side of the
chamber.

LIAM: Oh! All the way on the other side. I thought
it was central.

MATT: I'm sorry. When you entered the entrance,
the temple was to the front and to the right of

you. You guys curved around the left, on the other
side of it, keeping a view on it so you could see

it from across the way. Are you making your way
across to the temple?

LIAM: So it's pressed against the opposite wall of
this big place?

SAM: Are the undead all around the temple?

MATT: Further in. Nothing directly around the
outside of the temple. So you guys curve around

the entrance where you came and slowly make your
way towards where the temple emerges from the rock

wall. About a third or so of its exterior wall is
actually built into the side of this cavern, and

the large cylindrical-like Colosseum temple
structure curves outward. You can see as you get

closer to it, there's maybe the three floors to it
but edges of the top wall have crumbled inward and

you can see areas where it looks like it's
sustained some physical damage or eroded over

time. You eventually make your way around the
outside wall of the temple to one of the first

doorways, and it is an archway, maybe six feet
tall and about four feet wide. Very simple. This

is an old temple.

LIAM: Is that light you talked about coming from
one specific source, or all over the place? Every

window.

TRAVIS: Is there a story?

MATT: It looks to be coming from the base.

LIAM: From down below.

LAURA: Can we see in one of the windows?

MATT: You can look inside. Make a perception check.

SAM: Are there any bone laying around?

MATT: Plenty.

SAM: I am going to pick up two bones, give them to
Simon Two, and tell him to go across the street,

50 feet away from us, and wait there in some
building. Hold these bones.

MATT: You watch as two bone shards slowly glide
over, then stand there.

LAURA: 34.

MATT: Okay. As you pull up to the window and
glance down, you immediately look inside the

temple, and you see about 30 or so silhouettes of
shambling dwarven corpses all standing inside the

base floor of this temple. You see the silhouettes
and shapes because they are all faintly outlined

from the source of this blue light. You see a
small, baseball-sized, bluish crystal that is

resting, not in the perfect center of the temple
but somewhere in the open middle floor area, and

it looks like these 30 undead are surrounding it, and
standing.

SAM: Smash and grab. You could go in there and get
that thing, be out before they even saw you in there.

TALIESIN: Also, have your unseen servant make a
bunch of noise and have them all--

MARISHA: Be a distraction?

LAURA: Yeah, but making any kind of noise would
draw large crowds.

TALIESIN: We can have the unseen servant pick it
up.

MARISHA: How far away can he be, though?

SAM: He's 50 feet away, right now, and he's
waiting to make noise.

TALIESIN: What if he were to go in and get it
himself?

SAM: He could.

TRAVIS: He is invisible, isn't he?

SAM: He could go and pick it up and come right
back with it.

LAURA: But first don't tell him to come right out,
tell him to like walk a little bit to see if they

follow the light.

LIAM: But what are our options if that doesn't
work?

SAM: If he picks up the crystal and it doesn't work,
or it doesn't move?

LIAM: I want to do that. If that doesn't work, I
can click the boots, and I can be there in a

heartbeat and run, but what do we do next?

SAM: We need an escape plan, right? How many can
fit on the carpet?

LIAM: This goes back to my conversation with you,
which is: are we going to find a pocket and rest?

TALIESIN: Yes, but not here.

LIAM: Agreed, but we're talking about Vasselheim,
and is damage to Vasselheim a sacrifice needed to

be ready to do what's necessary?

TRAVIS: If he destroys Vasselheim, he does his
miracle, his display of power, and he will be even

stronger. That is not an option.

TALIESIN: If we were to be clever, if we're at the
edge of Vasselheim, the Vasselheim forces will be

distracting his forces, so we'll have less to deal
with, so we want this fight to happen at the edge.

LIAM: So we're talking about no rest. I'm not
talking about a short rest.

TALIESIN: There will not be a long rest, I don't
think.

LAURA: There might be.

LIAM: Not without him spilling into Vasselheim.

MARISHA: I've been very conservative with what
I've been doing for a reason.

TRAVIS: I don't think a long rest is in the
cards.

TALIESIN: I've only burned one thing that requires
a long rest.

MARISHA: I agree with Grog. We can't sacrifice
having him gain all of those followers, because

then the only option would be murder a lot of his
followers, which I'm not really comfortable with.

TRAVIS: And he may be too strong at that point.

SAM: We don't need to discuss this now. We need to
get the crystal and get the fuck out of here!

TALIESIN: If we can pull this off without burning
anything important, then it doesn't matter.

MARISHA: I want to go on record and say I think
this is stupid. Okay, let's go.

LAURA: That crystal looks really appetizing, and I
want it.

TRAVIS: How about we get ready to leave? I'll get
on the carpet.

LAURA: It looks really super magical.

TRAVIS: Who's on the broom with Vex?

LAURA: Me.

TRAVIS: No, who is on the broom with you?

TALIESIN: I'll be on the broom with her.

TRAVIS: Do you want to get on the carpet with me?

SAM: Yeah, of course.

MARISHA: I have to come with you because I have
the Pass Without a Trace spell.

TALIESIN: We all have to be together. We can't
separate.

TRAVIS: And he can fly.

SAM: No, he can't. He's done with his wings.

LIAM: Yeah, that's right.

SAM: We have too many people for the carpet and
the broom.

LIAM: My wings are gone. There's no wings for
Vecna unless we rest.

TRAVIS: Well, kick Trinket out of the necklace,
and I'll get in there.

TALIESIN: I can also climb up the wall, if need
be.

SAM: We can leave Trinket.

LIAM: It's fine, I still have the boots. Just the
wings. It was death or wings. I chose wings.

TRAVIS: All right, so how do we fly? How do we do
that?

SAM: I can burn a spell and be a giant eagle or
something.

TALIESIN: Just for shits and giggles, I'm going to
take one last look around to see if there's any

infrastructure for getting up. There must be
infrastructure for getting up here. There wasn't

layers of a city on top of each other.

SAM: We could just run.

LIAM: But wait, where are we going though if we
get this thing?

SAM: Up away.

LIAM: We have no verification of an exit or a hole
or anything!

TRAVIS: Yeah, sometimes you just got to leap,
okay?

LIAM: That's my entire life, but this is the last
moment.

SAM: Every organ in a body has an entrance and
an exit, right? Wait, no, lungs don't; they just

have the one.

MARISHA: Wait up, we argued more this game more
than anything else. Okay, we know we still have to

fly upwards, including on flying up to the blue
crystally thing right?

LAURA: No, the blue crystal is right here.

MARISHA: Well, then what the fuck?

LAURA: I don't know!

LIAM: We have a plan for getting the crystal, just
not how to get the fuck out.

MARISHA: We fucking fly!

TRAVIS: Who burns a spell to become an animal?

MARISHA: I can burn a spell.

TRAVIS: You do that.

MARISHA: We're probably going to take another
short rest, right?

TRAVIS: Probably.

MARISHA: Okay.

SAM: I can recall Simon 2. I can send him across
the room, make a bunch of noise, draw a bunch of

people over there. You run, grab the crystal, and
then we hustle out of there.

TRAVIS: What if only half the room leaves,
though?

LAURA: No, you go get Simon 2 to go get the
crystal.

SAM: And there's going to be a floating crystal
that marches across?

TRAVIS: They don't give a shit. Do it. I'm on the
carpet. We're ready to go.

MARISHA: You're on me? And you're on carpet, and
you're on broom?

TRAVIS: Percy and Vex are on the broom.

MATT: Gnomes on the carpet with Grog. You and
Percy on the broom. You're transforming into what

creature?

MARISHA: Giant eagle.

MATT: Giant eagle.

MARISHA: Not yet, though.

LAURA: And then we all, within 60 feet of each
other, fly up.

MARISHA: Okay.

MATT: Okay, who's doing what?

LAURA: Simon 2.

SAM: Simon 2 is going to go get the thing. Let's
say they all start watching the thing come towards

us. Grog, are you here? Are you with us?

TRAVIS: Yeah, I have to be.

SAM: Can you throw something across the room to
make a noise?

TRAVIS: Yep. I can absolutely do that.

LAURA: I'll prime an arrow.

TRAVIS: I have a hooded lantern that has fuel in
it. It will even burn when it lands. It's been

sitting in there for four years.

SAM: This is a terrible plan.

TALIESIN: This is why we hoarded it in the first
place.

SAM: Guys, I'm just going to say this one more time
before we do this: he's way faster than Simon 2.

Simon 2 could create a distraction. He could
(snatching noise).

LIAM: Scanlan, only with the boots.

TRAVIS: If they chase the jewel, fuck the jewel,
and we'll leave.

TALIESIN: If they chase the jewel, we can grab it
and run, anyway.

SAM: All right, Simon 2. Come back with your
bones!

MATT: The bones shift over towards you
ever-so-slowly.

LIAM: (singing) Don't worry, be happy now.

SAM: All right. Simon 2, go to the middle of the
room. Throw the bones away, far, then grab the

crystal. You don't have pockets. Run back to us!
Away, yeah. Should he cover it with a blanket or

something? Do you have a hood?

MATT: The bones begin to drift.

TALIESIN: Okay, I'm not saying no.

LAURA: A handkerchief to put over the light.

SAM: So it blocks the light? All right, so go put
this handkerchief on the thing, pick it up, and

bring it back to us. Go, Simon 2. You're our only
hope.

MATT: Is Simon holding bones or a blanket?

SAM: He's holding a blanket.

TALIESIN and LAURA: He's holding a hanky.

TRAVIS: Put the bones down gently.

SAM: Give me the bones. I put the bones down.
Here's a handkerchief. You'll put it over the

crystal, pick up the crystal, and bring it back to
us.

MATT: Simon begins to slowly walk, the
handkerchief floating by.

TALIESIN: This is like those little handkerchief
ghosts you would make in kindergarten.

MATT: As you glance inside and watch as it
happens, you can see all the undead that are in

there are standing, unmoving, swaying a little bit
in place. Simon's about 30 feet out from them.

About 20 feet out. They don't notice his presence.
You notice that all the undead are facing the

crystal, by the way.

LAURA and MARISHA: Why didn't you tell us that
before?

MARISHA: (laughing) That's crucial information.

SAM: Right before he picks it up, hock a rock as
far as you can.

TRAVIS: Not the lantern?

TALIESIN: Not the rock, the lantern. Light the
lantern and throw it.

MARISHA: By the way, they're all staring right at
you. They're 100 percent aware of what's going on.

MATT: They're not staring at you. They're staring
at the crystal.

LAURA: They will be staring at us. What if we
destroy the crystal? I wonder if all the undead

would die. Let's keep going.

MATT: The handkerchief makes its way forward.
Simon walks between the undead, and they don't

even notice.

SAM: That's a good guy, that Simon 2.

MARISHA: What happens?

MATT: The handkerchief moves over onto the
crystal, and all the undead look over to the

crystal, and the crystal lifts, and they all begin
to (groans).

TRAVIS: I take the hooded lantern and I (laughs) I
throw the fucking piss out of it.

MATT: Make an attack roll. Roll and add your
strength modifier.

TRAVIS: Oh, that's good! 19.

MATT: You're adding your strength modifier to
that? Yeah. You're aiming at the opposite end?

TRAVIS: If the entrance is here, I'm throwing it
in the opposite direction of where we are.

MATT: With your strength? Easy enough. You lob it.
It arcs over (flame noises) and explodes. The oil

spreads across the ground. Flames ignite, and the
bright light that emanates from it and the flames

burst, and all the undead turn over (grunting) and
begin to retract away. Two of them are following

Simon. Only two of the undead are following Simon,
currently. The others are distracted by the

detonation of flame. They look confused.

LIAM: How close are the pursuers?

MATT: They're making their way slowly. No, they're
much faster than Simon.

LIAM: I'm throwing.

LAURA: I'm going to get down and shoot.

MATT: Okay.

LAURA: Just the ones following Simon!

MATT: Both of you guys roll an attack.

TRAVIS: Are they far away from the other ones that
aren't leaving yet?

TALIESIN: It doesn't matter; they're not paying
attention.

LAURA: 25. No, 33.

LIAM: 29.

MATT: Roll damage.

TALIESIN: They drop out of nowhere. They faint.
It's going to be good.

MARISHA: So we hope.

TALIESIN: I thought you were made of sterner
stuff, Travis. Come on. Now is not the time to get

squeamish.

LAURA: 24.

TALIESIN: We made a solemn oath.

SAM: They were innocent.

TALIESIN: We agreed, weeks ago.

LIAM: I rolled a 77 for mine.

SAM: 77?!

MATT: These two skeletons almost atomize. As
they're walking, they're both gaining on Simon,

and as they both start reaching towards where the
dull bluish glow, mostly muted by the

handkerchief, is floating in the air, they (growl)
towards it. You watch as both their heads and

torsos scatter across the ground, like a heavy
wave of force blasted them across the stonework.

The scraping sound hits as the detonation hits.
The flames are dying down, and... no, no other

undead see it. Slowly, the stone floats past, out
of the doorway, and makes its way back to you.

TALIESIN: Drop it in the Bag of Holding.

MATT: At this point, Simon's getting real close to
the end of his hour-long casting time.

SAM: You've served us well.

TRAVIS: Bag of Holding. It doesn't hurt my hand,
or anything, does it?

MATT: No.

TRAVIS: Cool! We've got that.

MATT: Whatever it is.

LAURA: I guess we have it.

MARISHA: Nothing happened to them when we put it
in the Bag of Holding? They were like, (groaning)

and kept going? All the undead?

MATT: All the undead inside that were distracted
by the explosion of the lantern are riled up now,

and they're starting to wander around, and some of
them are starting to make their way towards the

entrance to the temple. Some are making their way
toward the staircase to head upward.

MARISHA: Are we flying?

TRAVIS: Yes, we fly up.

MATT: All right. You go into eagle form, grab Vax,
and all of you guys make your way up into the

cavern entrance.

LAURA: Bubble. Tight bubble.

MATT: Currently, I believe the eagle form has
darkvision. Right now, you have no light source.

LIAM: I do. I can say things to her. I can see.

MATT: Right, so you guys are able to maneuver. So
as you guys head up into the center part of the

cavern, above the catwalks, you can see as you
push through, about a third of them are still

standing. A lot of them have collapsed in the
center, and there's edges of bridges that come to

a halt where they've collapsed and tumbled down
into the cavern below. You can see straggling

undead wandering the catwalks and these pathways
along the edges of the cavern. As you pass forward

through them-- I imagine you guys are cruising
through as fast as you can?

TALIESIN: Trying to avoid them.

LAURA: We'll try to avoid the clusters.

MATT: A few of them seem to glance up and see you
as you pass and reach, but they have nowhere to

go. As you begin to cruise through the center of
this cavern, following it to the opposite side, it

widens further, and now as you look down, faintly,
you can see bits of the orange bioluminescent

fungus that are growing within this city below.
You can see elements of these beautiful statues

that are partially crumbled. You can see small
homes that litter the center of this chamber.

You can see some of the catwalks that meet in the
center of this actually meet in a suspended

platform that contains another dome-like structure
that is partially caved in. With another shake and

impact of the titan's footfall, you watch as one
of its suspension pillars cracks, and the entire

center finally gives way and falls and slams down,
collapsing into the center of the chamber, it

being there for the final moment of its tensile
strength. As it slams down, you watch as it

crushes about 40 or so various skeletons below,
and from that blast, you can see something on the

interior of it was apparently explosive or
flammable, and it explodes, giving a brief flash

of light into the center of this cavern. Where you
had the brief outside of your visual range, you

now look around and see the entirety of these
dozens of catwalks and the city below you.

Hundreds and hundreds of roving skeletons and
mostly decomposed, mummified dwarven corpses that

all glance towards this explosion. Some have been
blasted away from it by the impact of the

detonation. Others are making their way towards
what the strange sound was, drawn towards it, but

you're keeping this central safe space between,
where none of them can grasp or assail you.

LAURA: Were there other buildings like that, ready
to fall from the ceiling?

MATT: Currently, what you see is just the one.

LIAM: I'm looking for gaps or holes or anything in
the ceiling of this cavern or anywhere to get out.

MATT; You see entrances to homes that are
built into the sides.

SAM: What about a tunnel or anything?

MATT: Make a perception check. Anyone who has
darkvision can make a perception check.

MARISHA: I have keen sight. Does that count?

MATT: You have advantage on your perception.

MARISHA: Oh, shitty and shittier.

LIAM: 27.

TRAVIS: 18.

LAURA: 18.

SAM: I didn't do one.

MARISHA: 28.

SAM: I'm weeping over Simon 2.

MATT: Oh. Your keen eagle vision-- wait, you said
you rolled shitty and shittier and still got 28?

MARISHA: I have a plus 13, plus advantage.

MATT: Right. All right, cool. So glancing through
your eagle vision, you can see the top of the

chamber almost seems to come to a conical shape,
and as you look up to the top of it, it emerges

into a completely vertical chamber that rises up
and out of the central opening of the city of

Thomara.

SAM: Let's go.

MARISHA: I take the lead, I guess. (caws)

LAURA: (shushes) Caw quietly.

LIAM: Vax is trying to appreciate his last ride.

TRAVIS: Debbie Downer.

LIAM: No way! I'm not going to stop. Fuck you all.
Every game until the end, motherfuckers!

MATT: As the group of you make your way up into
this vertical cavern, we're going to take a break.

I need to take a break, myself.

TRAVIS: Remember, we have the--

TRAVIS: Sponsored announcement.

MATT: That's right. We have the Shadow of War video
coming up at this break to give you a glance at

this game coming up that we're all part of. If you
haven't seen it, or if you have seen it, check it

out, anyway. It's pretty awesome. Also, for this
week's giveaway, Wyrmwood, we've got a little

video for you here to show you what's up and what
you can do and try to win it at the break, so pay

attention, stick around, and we'll see you guys
here in a few minutes.

LIAM: This is what's up!

TRAVIS: Yeah!

[break]

MATT: Hello, everyone, and welcome back. All
right, so last we left off, you guys were all

traveling upward through various means of flight,
through a peak in the central cavern chamber in

the center of Thomara, the long-dead dwarven
city.

As you begin to climb upward through this
15-foot-wide or so upward hallway, this

cylindrical cavern, you continue upward for about
50 or so feet since passing through the ceiling of

this chamber, and then it opens up into a domed
room. Immediately, as you fly up, you see a

ceiling come up, and you have to coast off to the
side. You catch yourself, hovering there as the

rest of you guys make your way in there. This
domed, mushroom-shaped chamber with a very thin,

circular floor around the outside with the hole
that you entered at the bottom. Whoever would

stand on the edge there would have the opportunity
to either leap into or toss something down into

this hole that would then drop them right
into the center of the city.

TALIESIN: Weird question: if I were holding the
blue gem and had dropped it down this hole, what

would be the likelihood it would have ended vaguely
where it ended up?

MATT: Not at all. It was a ways off.

TALIESIN: Just checking.

LAURA: Are there any undead around us right now?

MATT: Currently? Glancing around, you do not see
any undead.

MARISHA: You said things or people? Is this a
body-sized hole?

MATT: No, it's about 15 feet wide. The full
chamber is maybe 50 or so feet across. About

a 20-foot walkway, circular, before the hole in the
center.

LIAM: Did you say the hole is a natural gap in the
cave, or does it look made?

MATT: If you glance down and look about the
interior of this chamber, it is not natural. It is

all carved.

LAURA: Can we look at the gem for a second, since
there's no undead around?

MATT: If you want to. Grog has it.

TRAVIS: Do you want me to pull it out?

LAURA: Yeah. Can you do an arcana check on it?

SAM: Sure. I can look at it.

LAURA: How big is it? Is it baseball-sized?

MATT: It's about that big.

TRAVIS: No undead, right? No creatures, nobody
that's going to (whoop) to the shiny blue light?

LAURA: We can't see anything around us?

MATT: Not at the moment, no.

SAM: I remove the handkerchief. I look at it. I
inspect it like a jeweler inspecting a jewel. 18

arcana check.

MATT: Okay. It's definitely magical. The blue
light from it grows stronger, then weaker.

Stronger, then weaker. It has this rhythmic flash
to it, like a heart or something that has a pulse

to it.

MARISHA: How is it lining up towards the steps of
the giant?

MATT: Not at all. It's much quicker.

MARISHA: Much quicker.

MATT: It's cold to the touch.

TALIESIN: Does it do anything to the Titanstone
Knuckles?

LIAM: Is it faster than my heartbeat?

MATT: It's slower.

LIAM: Slower.

TRAVIS: That's slow.

MARISHA: So it's very slow, but not as slow as the
rate he's walking.

TRAVIS: Is it a cut jewel, or is it rough?

MATT: It's rough. No jeweler's hand has touched
it. There are some edges that have flat surfaces;

it looks like there have been things that have
chipped off the stone.

TALIESIN: Does it have the vibe of something
petrified?

MATT: No, it has almost a quartz-like look to it.
Elements of it appear to be cloudier or imperfect,

and some areas appear to be clearer, and light
shines through a little brighter.

LIAM: It's like a hunk at the natural history
museum of minerals.

MATT: Yeah, but there is an enchantment.

SAM: What about Pikey-pants? Can she detect if
it's evil or good or something? Does she do that?

LAURA: You should do that.

LIAM: I'm going to do that.

MATT: Okay. You don't get a sense of any evil from
the stone.

SAM: You said no sense of evil?

MATT: No evil coming from the stone.

LAURA: Okay, I'm going to gaze into it super
hard.

MATT: You look really hard into the stone as you
hold it to your face, and your eyes almost cross

as you glance into the very core source of this
pulsating arcane energy. It's bright.

LAURA: So bright, y'all.

MATT: It hurts a little bit, and you wince after a
while.

LAURA: I saw so many things.

LIAM: She looked at the eclipse, too.

TRAVIS: We don't have Identify or anything like
that, do we?

MARISHA and SAM: No.

LAURA: You know who had that?

SAM: No, who?

LAURA: Our good friend, Tary. He was wonderful.

SAM: Who is it? Oh, the fancy fellow? He's
probably dead somewhere.

TRAVIS: I think we should try and smash it.

SAM: Don't you think that about everyone and
everything?

MARISHA: I'm not against this idea.

TRAVIS: What else are we going to do to it before
we face El Vecna?

TALIESIN: My only other thought of how it could be
useful, at this point, with what we know about it--

SAM: Is "El Vecna" Spanish for Vecna?

TRAVIS: Sí.

TALIESIN: It seemed like the undead were crowding
towards it, which means that if we do get attacked

by a group of undead, we might be able to
shiny-object them, unless, of course, it's

dangerous in their hands.

TRAVIS: Or we spike it down the hole, and it causes a
hydrogen bomb, and we shatter this titan in half.

TALIESIN: That literally made the dungeon master
laugh, so I don't know if that's necessarily--

TRAVIS: It's blue, right? That is the color of
hydrogen.

TALIESIN: That's the color of Dr. Manhattan. I
don't necessarily know if it's the same thing.

TRAVIS: It is known.

SAM: Why don't we hang onto it for now? In a
moment of peril, we can throw it or smash it.

TALIESIN: Not crazy, trying to crack it.

LIAM: What if it stops this thing where it stands?
We're all thinking that this thing could be its heart.

SAM: Its heart?

TRAVIS: It's palm-sized, right?

TALIESIN: It could be a chunk of heart.

LAURA: Is it the same color as his Knuckles?

TRAVIS: No, these are stone-gray. This is blue
crystal.

MATT: There's nothing about it that gives you the
sense, based on what you've seen both outside and

within the titan, that it is of similar essence to
the titan, from what you understand.

TRAVIS: It could be a soul or something.

SAM: Soul glow?

TRAVIS: Does Pike have anything that detects a
soul?

LIAM: It's not evil. It's not good. It could be
the thing that's keeping these undead moving.

TRAVIS: Well, then I don't know what else to do. I
think we keep moving.

LIAM: I like the spiking idea.

LAURA: I'm okay squishing it with the hammer.

LIAM: I think that you should let me squish it,
because if that blows up--

LAURA: I think it's funny that we spent so much
time getting it, and then we're going to destroy it.

LIAM: We spent ten minutes getting this thing.

TRAVIS: We'll think about smashing it when we take
our rest. Maybe a cause will reveal itself.

TALIESIN: Hold onto it for now. It could come in
handy.

MARISHA: It's like that dress you bought four
years ago you still haven't worn. It might find a

purpose.

SAM: All right, focus!

LAURA: Let's get out of this dome.

TRAVIS: Is there any writing or engraving or runes
on the edge of the circle that's been engineered?

MATT: On the edge of the circle? No. It's smooth
stone, intently designed to be a drop or opening

of some kind.

TALIESIN: Are there exits?

MATT: Make an investigation check. You don't see
any doorways or passageways.

MARISHA: Wait, there's not a hole that we can go
up?

MATT: There's a hole that you came through to come
into this chamber. Imagine a dome. You're in the

chamber.

TALIESIN: I literally rolled a one. I'm aware that
there's a hole.

MATT: You get vertigo as you stand in the
chamber.

LAURA: Is this investigation or perception?

MATT: You look about, and you don't see any exit.
Investigation to see if there's any hidden or

not-immediately-noticeable exits or entryways.

LAURA: 23.

MATT: 23. As you do a pass around, looking closely
along the wall, you see two small domed doors

that have metal rods jammed through, almost like a
small barricade that's been placed down on one

side of a doorway. However, they are closed from
this side.

LAURA: So you could open them up?

MATT: You could.

LAURA: Are they trapped? I'll look to see if
they're trapped.

LIAM: On it.

TRAVIS: Also fair to assume that whatever's on the
other side of that door--

LIAM: 27.

MATT: 27?

LAURA: I rolled an 18.

MATT: You're both looking at the same one?

LIAM: Yeah.

MATT: Neither of you notice any traps.

LAURA: All right, then I'm going to try to jimmy
open that lock.

TRAVIS: Whoa.

LAURA: I already said it.

MATT: Make a strength check.

LIAM: Not locked.

LAURA: Two! Wait. Yeah, that's straight-up
strength, not a saving throw? Two!

SAM: Two?

LAURA: I'm really fucking weak. You'd think I'd be
stronger pulling the bowstring, but no.

TRAVIS: Use your legs. Really, use your legs.

LAURA: Okay. I put my legs up on the wall and
(grunts).

MATT: It is not budging.

LIAM: Can I use my finger skills to see if it's
locked? Just my finger skills. I made a perception

check to see if it's trapped. Wouldn't I know if
it's locked?

MATT: The lock is the barricading mechanism on it.
There is no handle.

LIAM: I'm going to try to sidestep this lock with
my lock-picking skills.

TRAVIS and MARISHA: It's a barricade.

LIAM: There's nothing to do?

MARISHA: It's like steel rebar in front of the
door.

TRAVIS: Is there any decorating or writing or
scratching around the door frame or wall around

the door? Anything other than a portal to go
through?

MATT: Not from what you can see, no. The room's
pretty simple. The construction of it may be older

than most of the things that you've seen in the
city below and previous chambers. It seems to be

built almost for function rather than ceremony.

LAURA: It's a trash chute.

MARISHA: That's what I was going to say. Is it a
water chute? Drainage? Is this a drain pipe?

LAURA: We could fill the city with water. Drown
all the zombies.

MATT: One thing you do notice, which is
interesting as you're glancing around at the side,

looking at the ground at the bottom of it,
there's a very faint groove in the ground that

leads toward the central hole at the base of each
of these doorways.

MARISHA: Does there appear to be any other type of
chutes coming into this room?

MATT: No, just the two doors on the opposite
sides.

TRAVIS: How far apart are the doors?

MATT: Opposite sides of the chamber, yeah.

TALIESIN: So there's a bar. The door is barred,
then?

MATT: Correct.

TALIESIN: So break it. Let's get out of the way
and pop the bar. See if we can pop the bar right

off the door.

TRAVIS: Do we want to have Keyleth there in case
900 undead zombies start pouring through, and she

can Wall of Stone the door?

MARISHA: I'll be with you. Yeah. I'm right behind
you, man.

TRAVIS: I will try and remove one of the doors. I
don't know how to delineate between them.

TALIESIN: The left one.

TRAVIS: Sure. Yeah. It's a circle. That one. 25.

MATT: 25. It immediately comes off to the side,
and when you lift it, you realize that it's bolted

to the wall to the side, and it curves upward and
holds it in place. This is meant to stay in place.

LAURA: Wow. Really? It was meant to move? I think
I loosened it for you, Grog.

TRAVIS: I didn't get that sense at all.

MATT: As you lift it up, the door is now
unbarred.

TRAVIS: Shall I?

LAURA: Yeah, open the door!

TRAVIS: Are the hinges on this side so it looks
like it opens towards me?

MATT: It looks like it opens towards you, yes.

TRAVIS: I'll pull open the door.

MARISHA: I'm at the ready for whatever.

MATT: Okay. We'll say as you entered and landed,
the door on the left. Okay, so as you pull that

one open, immediately preparing yourself, a couple
of rocks tumble out, and it reveals a packed-tight

mass of earth and stone.

LAURA: Shit! Let's try the other one.

TRAVIS: Should I punch the rubble?

LAURA: No, let's try the other door first.

TRAVIS: I make my way around.

TALIESIN: We set ourselves up.

TRAVIS: 20 on the dot.

MATT: 20. (metal creaking) It lifts over without
an issue. Pull the door open. You lift it open,

and a few rocks tumble past, but a slick rockslide
incline continues upward, dry, no water. Nothing.

TRAVIS: A rockslide continues onward. Slick, dry.

LAURA: How big is the tunnel?

MATT: It's about four feet wide or so.

LAURA: So we can fit in?

MATT: Yeah, you can fit in.

TALIESIN: We have some Immovable Rods.

MATT: When I say slide, I mean smooth stone, like
an actual slide. You get the sense that there was

some sort of aqueduct-type scenario.

LAURA: We brace ourselves on the wall to make sure
we don't slide down.

TALIESIN: Whoever's in the back should have the
Immovable Rods, so if there's a sudden rush of

water, we can create a grate for ourselves.

MATT: You envision that at one point, long ago,
this would have been a beautiful waterfall in the

center of Thomara's chamber that has now dried.

TRAVIS: Dope. That's awesome. I'm getting creepy
as fuck now. I've got the Immovable Rod; I'll be

the caboose.

MARISHA: I've got the other one, so I'll be
second.

MATT: So Grog is the caboose.

MARISHA: Keyleth in front of Grog.

MATT: Keyleth in front of Grog? All right. Who's
in front of them?

SAM: Me.

MATT: Scanlan.

LAURA: Pike.

MATT: Then Pike. All righty.

TALIESIN: Myself and the twins, I suppose.

LAURA: Yeah. I want to be in the front.

TRAVIS: I'll go ahead and take the Immovable Rod
out and have it in my hand.

MARISHA: Samesies.

MATT: So you've got both of those. Oh, I totally
forgot there was a winner for this. I'm sorry. I

should do that, huh? RyanBoo, you're the winner.
Danoba will contact you and get you your cherry

deck box soon. Now that's taken care of.

You make your way up the slide, and it's
relatively gradual; it's not too heavy of a

scenario. You make your way upward, upward, and
about 30 or so feet up, the walls of it separate

out and appear to break into two smaller chambers,
like this was a breaking point where a person

could enter from either side to check on the flow
or do maintenance on whatever the ducting was. The

slide continues upward. Vax and Vex, you get to
that portion and lift yourselves up, looking right

to left. It ends on one side, and it looks like
there's some dry-rotted wooden crates, and to the

left, a staircase.

MARISHA: So it looks like a landing?

MATT: It's a brief landing for somebody who needed
to come in and do repairs, maintenance, or

checking on the flow of water.

LAURA: Keep going up the slide or take the
stairs?

LIAM: Quick glance in the crates?

MARISHA: No, if you're going to take a quick
glance, then we have to bust them open like a

proper RPG.

TRAVIS: They're dry-rotted. They'll break easy.

MATT: They will. What do you do?

LIAM: Check them out. I eat some edamame.

MATT: So you lift the crates. There are only two
of them, and they're relatively small: two feet by

two feet. The first one, you open up and look
inside, and there are rusted tools. Long iron

bars; some appear wrench-like. It looks like
whatever mechanism was used as the early aqueduct

system for this, this box contained materials,
though you're uncertain as to what their

application was into this system.

TALIESIN: I'll take a glance at these things to
memorize their general shape.

TRAVIS: After you're done with them, I'll actually
take them.

MATT: You go and grab a few. There's five rods of
varying widths. Some appear to be ratchet

elements, where they fit around different metal
caps. There's one that looks like a wide crowbar

that's used to hold or wedge elements separately.
Very basic; nothing too intricate.

TALIESIN: This is some basic shit that you're
picking up right now.

LIAM: That was the first crate. What's the next
crate? Is it whoopee cushions?

MATT: No, the next crate you open up and it looks
mostly empty, but it looks like there are a couple

of rows of small glass vials, half of which appear
to be broken or shattered, but there are three

remaining, with a faint bluish liquid on the
inside.

LAURA: Does that sound familiar to us at all?

LIAM: Healing potions are blue.

MATT: These don't resemble healing potions,
actually.

TALIESIN: Do these resemble underwater breathing?

MATT: They do. You've seen these before.

LIAM: For toilet diving.

TALIESIN: Emergency, yeah. Let's take those.

TRAVIS: Okay. I got them.

LIAM: I give one of them to Percy for being so
sharp. I give one to my sister. You don't need it.

I keep one. No, I don't. I'm barely alive. I give
one to Scanlan.

SAM: I give it to Grog.

TRAVIS: I've got one. I've got two, actually.

SAM: All right, then I'll keep one.

TALIESIN: Just in case.

TRAVIS: I've got two vials of underwater
breathing.

MATT: All righty.

TALIESIN: Why is there no water running?

TRAVIS: Any other boxes to smash?

MATT: No.

MARISHA: I'd imagine because he's vertical now
instead of horizontal.

TRAVIS: And undead.

SAM: Let's keep going up the stairs.

MATT: All right. Heading up the stairs in the same
order?

LIAM: 30 to 40 feet in advance.

MATT: All righty. 30 to 40 feet in advance? Okay.
You make your way up the staircase. Roll stealth.

TRAVIS: Immovable Rod's out.

LIAM: 28 for stealth.

MATT: Okay. Are you stealthing, as well? Are you
going along with him, or are you letting him go

ahead?

LIAM: She's coming.

LAURA: Natural 20.

MATT: All right, so the two of you very quietly
make your way ahead, the rest of you keeping

within, I assume, the range of the ring. The
staircase doesn't go too far; it goes maybe 30 or

so feet, and then it opens into a hallway. You're
stepping up through the floor, and there's about

ten feet behind and to the sides of you. There's a
slight element of a cave-in to the left of you,

where part of the stone seems to have collapsed,
and a bit of the earth has filtered in. It's a

smooth stone floor that's tiled in places. The
walls continue on, a somewhat trapezoid-like

angle. There are other portions of the wall that
have caved in on certain elements, and there are

two large pillars that mark the center of this
hallway, either used as support beams or

decorative, but they go from ceiling to floor.

You glance over the side, and you see a distant
staircase on the far end of this hallway, maybe 80

to 90 feet from where you are, if not further,
with larger stairs. You've seen some of the

dwarven-based ones. These seem to be a little more
grandiose as they lift up higher and higher. Part

of that hallway is completely collapsed; it's a
wall of fallen earth. But there's a hole carved

out of it. There's a tunnel that has been pushed
through. You hear this very faint buzzing sound. Very

faint. This (low humming). A very faint vibration.
You also see a figure stepping from a side wall

crevasse, an opening of a similar shape to the
circular opening in the wall.

LIAM: I hide.

LAURA: We were stealthed.

MATT: You guys were stealthed. You re-hide, while
stealthed.

LIAM: That's what I do.

MATT: You hear some muttering across the way in
the shadow. There's a faint source of light that

looks like a glowing orb that's floating in the
air above and giving this faint greenish-white

light; a bauble that's giving a light source to
whatever this cloaked figure is. You hear the

muttering, and two more walk down the staircase to
join them. You recognize, from the faint bit of

light, a glimmer of metal around the neck of one
of them that is the symbol, the hole with the

metallic fork. You see Remnants of Vecna.

SAM: Remnants?

MATT: You don't see any faces. You see a glimmer
or shine on the metal from the light cast from the

bauble.

MARISHA and TALIESIN: What?

TALIESIN: This can't be happening right now.

LIAM: We don't recognize faces? We don't see
faces?

MATT: You see hooded figures that are walking in.
There are three of them.

MARISHA: Oh, so they're cultists.

MATT: Okay. So which ones are you aiming at?
There's three of them.

LAURA: I'm aiming at the first one I saw.

MATT: Okay, the first one you saw just stepped out
of the center of the hall there, and then the two

others walked down the hallway. You're aiming at
the one that came out of the side of the wall?

LAURA: Has he seen the two coming down the
stairway yet?

MATT: There's been discussion over the shoulder.
They seem to be aware of each other's presence,

but they haven't come together to engage as three
in the same area yet.

LIAM: I will follow my sister's lead. If she
attacks one, I send one to another one and two to

the third.

LAURA: I'll attack the first so he can take the
second.

LIAM: One. Two, three.

MATT: Okay.

LIAM: Yeah.

MATT: All righty.

LAURA: These are auto-crits, though, because we
are surprising them.

MATT: This is true.

LAURA: Can I Hunter's Mark him?

MATT: Yes, you can Hunter's Mark him.

LAURA: Oh, so we don't have to roll for attack?
It's an auto-crit.

MATT: Well, no, you still have to roll to see if
you aim. You have advantage on the attack.

LAURA: 27.

LIAM: 27 on my first.

MATT: Okay, both hit.

LAURA: Second attack. Oh my god, 20. 20 on the
second attack.

MATT: Okay, that hits.

LAURA: I got a one on both. Thank god they were
both at advantage.

LIAM: 27. 19, 25.

MATT: Okay, all three hit.

LAURA: And they're all critical?

MATT: No, the first one crits.

LIAM: Oh, really? Okay. The first is sneak
attack.

MATT: They're not all crit. Once you hit the
person they are no longer surprised.

LAURA: Okay, so the first one is a crit. Solid!
That's okay.

MAIRSHA: Yeah, I feel so bad for you.

LIAM: You are the most powerful person at this
table.

LAURA: 14, plus six lightning damage. Oh wait, you
know what? Should I single out the lightning

damage or say what all the damage is?

MATT: Well, it's an auto-crit, so lightning damage
is doubled, as well.

LAURA: So it's 12 lightning damage.

MATT: Right, plus whatever your sneak attack
damage is.

LAURA: Okay.

TALIESIN: Yeah, that's happening.

TRAVIS: You already did 40 point of damage without
doubling.

LAURA: Don't do that.

SAM: Travis, shut up! These two and their gigantic
damage rolls.

TALIESIN: Huge, mammoth.

SAM: Huge, bulbous.

TALIESIN: Turgid.

LAURA: I had already rolled that, but it was a six
again, so 40, plus 12 lightning damage. On the first.

MATT: 52 points of damage.

LIAM: I got 48 on my first, but that's it. 48,
done.

LAURA: I didn't do Hunter's Mark damage on that
first guy.

MATT: This is on the other guy; the second guy.

LAURA: Add ten because of Hunter's Mark on the
first one.

MARISHA: Little bit of that reach around.

SAM: The dice smell a little bit.

LIAM: 48. 20, ten.

MATT: So 48 on your critical.

LIAM: That's the critical. That's the dice damage.
I rolled really low.

MATT: 20, ten. Okay, then. All righty. Are you
shooting the same guy, Laura?

LAURA: Yes, I was all on one, unless he went down.
Would I notice?

MATT: No, he did not go down.

LAURA: Okay, then the second one. 21 on the
second one.

MATT: That does it.

TRAVIS: How much damage? Total.

MATT: Total on that round from you would have been
110 with the first hit between the two of you on

the first guy and the second hit. So the one that
was off to the side, who is leaning forward,

hunched over, and looking over his shoulder. The
first arrow goes into the throat and he reaches

for it, and as he does, the dagger (impact) into
the face, into the socket where there is no eye,

which then looks up with a groan. Finger goes out
as soon as the second arrow takes the other eye

out, and then falls back down to the ground, dead.
Pointing your direction like (gasping). As soon as

the two other daggers go into the other two, they
both see the one crumple to the ground, the two

left there, the guy who is standing at the
stairs--

LIAM: May I also dump some poison?

MATT: Sure, into which one?

LIAM: Into the first one. I did one into my first
target and two into the second; the poison would

have gone into the second person. It's a DC of
15.

MATT: All righty. DC of 15? Yeah, that succeeds.
16.

LIAM: So nothing, right?

MATT: Nothing, yeah.

LIAM: Balls!

MATT: As soon as the one crumples to the ground
and the two other daggers into the other two that

are there, they (grunt). They see the one fall.
The one in the center of the chamber glances over

his shoulder and says, "It seems I'm the lucky
one. Odell, run back and tell that Viskorad found

"sneaky prey." The one immediately to the left
begins to run up the stairs.

LAURA: Can I shoot him again before he runs away?

MATT: Nope because you took your turn. This is
their reaction.

SAM: Oh shit. You need help, Matt?

LIAM: Initiative!

MATT: We're about to roll initiative,
motherfuckers.

LAURA: Sorry, guys. We did it.

MARISHA: Viskon? We've heard the name Viskon
before.

SAM: We've also heard the name Odell.

LIAM: Yeah, Odell.

MARISHA: Odell comma tell Viskon we have visitors.
Wait, when did we hear Odell before?

LIAM: I just know we've heard it.

SAM: There's been three Jamieson's in our campaign,
too. Matt isn't an infinite fount of names.

MATT: Everyone else is still down the stairs right
there.

LAURA: I wonder if we should have let them talk
for a second. Oh, well.

LIAM: That's not our way.

MATT: Apparently not, as recent events have shown.
So now, I need everyone to roll initiative.

TRAVIS: Don't fuck me, Gil.

LAURA: No, it's okay. I've got advantage.

MARISHA: Don't let them leave. I agree with that.

TALIESIN: Leave one of them alive, but don't let
them leave.

LIAM: Not good for Pike.

MARISHA: Did everyone roll shittily?

TRAVIS: No.

MATT: 25 to 20?

LAURA: 23.

TRAVIS: 21.

LIAM: Get that long range. Get that runner.

MATT: 20 to 15?

SAM: 18.

MARISHA: 15.

MATT: All righty.

MARISHA: What's up, bro?

LIAM: I'm not fast.

TALIESIN: 13.

LIAM: 13.

TRAVIS: That's weird for you.

TALIESIN: It's almost as low as I can go.

MATT: 13 for Pike? No, that's Vax. What's Pike?

LIAM: Pike clocked in at four.

MATT: Pike is clocking in as Pike.

LIAM: Yeah. Where's the remix of this song?

TALIESIN: I know. (beatboxes)

MATT: All righty, so beginning of the round. Vex,
you're up first.

LAURA: Okay, I'm going to cast Grasping Vine
around here, so he can lash up and try to catch

that wizard, the cloaked guy that's running away.

MATT: What's he have to roll for that?

LAURA: He has to roll a dexterity save above 15.

MARISHA: Get it! Get it, son!

MATT: That's an eight. He is running up the
stairs.

LAURA: So it snatches his ankle.

MATT: And then drags him.

LAURA: Backwards. Then I'm going to shoot him
twice.

MATT: All right. Go for it.

TALIESIN: Not that one. That one looks like he
knows too much.

LAURA: What is that? 32.

MATT: 32, that hits. Go ahead and roll damage.

LAURA: 14, plus four lightning damage. I don't get
sneak attack on this guy, though?

MATT: No.

LAURA: Okay. 14, plus four lightning damage, and
then I'm going to hit him again. That is also a

32. No, that's-- well, it's very high. 27? 28

MATT: 28. All right, that hits. Roll damage. Grog,
you're up next. You're in the back of the marching

order.

TRAVIS: We're not up at the top, are we?

MATT: No. So you've got at least 25, 30 feet
before you can get to the top there.

LAURA: 12, plus six lightning damage.

MATT: Nice. All right, 36 points of damage in one
round. The arrows (impact) as he is pulled through

the rock and rubble by the Grasping Vine that is
currently wrapped around him.

LAURA: I am going to use my movement to stand
behind this little pillar right here.

MATT: Okay, go for it. Grog, you're up.

TRAVIS: As I hear the sweet melodical Miami Vice
tunes of warfare being played, can I double dash

up past my mates and into the fray?

MATT: Sure, so at 30 feet, it'll get you right at
the edge of the stairs. Still have 20 more feet

you can go.

TRAVIS: Yeah, straight towards them.

MATT: All right, so that's there.

TRAVIS: Then can I use dash to go the rest of the
way?

MATT: To close the gap there? Sure.

TRAVIS: Now, I only have my bonus action left, so
can I go into a rage?

MATT: You may, yeah. All righty, so at that point
you go into a rage.

TRAVIS: That's my turn.

MATT: All righty, so now it is his turn.

MARISHA: You have that guy? But this guy was the
runner, I thought.

TALIESIN: Yeah, but he's vined.

MARISHA: Okay. He's currently grasped.

MATT: Okay, as soon as you rush up into his face,
you hear the individual, the hood pulled back at

this point. You see shaved entirely bald, older,
late fifties to early sixties, missing one eye,

but in that socket you can see a faint spark of
arcane energy. Shouting out amongst the space,

"Glory and reward is mine! Wraiths, go forth and
devour, while I bring oblivion to them." As you

rush up, is going to cast Wall of Force right in
the space between there.

MARISHA: Between him and Grog?

LAURA: (singing) The space between.

SAM: (singing) Your wicked lies.

MATT: It pushes you back five feet, and now there
is a Wall of Force that is blocking that side of

the hallway from where he is.

MARISHA: Him and the other guy? Or just between
him? How big is it?

MATT: Sorry, the entirety of this chamber is the
Wall of Force.

MARISHA: Fucking fuckface.

TRAVIS: What does Wall of Force do? Can I walk
through that shit?

MARISHA: Yeah, it just might hurt.

TRAVIS: Will it?

MATT: As soon as the wall appears there, you see a
slight short barrier that forces you back about

five feet. You catch your back foot, and now as
the barrier finishes shimmering, it's invisible.

Looks like there's nothing there. He's grinning
from there. He glances over to the right into the

hole in the wall where his friend was earlier.

TRAVIS: Which was that way, right?

MATT: As he glances over, he goes, "Odell, bring
me the sphere." You hear the humming noise, the

faint humming vibrational noise, now louder. That
ends his turn. Actually, he is going to take a

step back up onto the stairs there. Scanlan,
you're up.

SAM: I'm up? What can I do?

MATT: You're 20 feet down from the staircase.

SAM: My speed is 25.

MATT: That'll get you right up to about there,
with five-foot steps.

MARISHA: Don't let them leave!

SAM: Oh god, this looks like a crazy thing.

TRAVIS: (counting) 60 is how far away he is.

SAM: Wow. There's a Wall of Force. Do I see a Wall
of Force?

MATT: You don't. You actually rush up, and it
looks like it's an open hallway right now.

SAM: Okay. I see Grog in attack mode, right? I see
these two bad guys. I will send a Lightning Bolt

at somebody.

MATT: Which one?

SAM: Looks like I can't see this guy because there
is a pillar in between, so the other guy.

MATT: That's true, so it'll be that guy. All
right. You'll have to move off to the side, or

else you're going to hit Grog with the Lightning
Bolt. It's going to be hard. He's up a few steps,

though. You could probably aim it above and hit
him without Grog. I'll let you do that. As you get

to the top, you release your bolt of lightning.
(crackling noise) It arcs forward, and as it gets

right above Grog, it hits something solid and
splinters. No effect.

LIAM: So this Wall of Force visually is floor to
ceiling?

MATT: You don't know; you don't see it. He saw a
faint shimmer because something pushed him out of

this space, but right now you have no visual
perspective. That's going to end Scanlan's turn, I

believe. All right. The other guy, who is
currently held by the vine that falls limp off of

his body--

LAURA: It falls limp off of his body?

MATT: Well, it doesn't wrap around or keep him
held. Every turn, it can pull something towards

it. He's going to glance over towards the side,
listening to what the other, Viskorad, said. Okay.

At which point, that humming gets louder and
louder.

TALIESIN: He had the map. If he built the map,
there's a way out.

MATT: You watch as a two-foot-wide black sphere of
void-like nothingness comes carving through the stone

wall immediately to the left of you, Grog, leaving
a completely disintegrated form roughly the shape

of its sphere. It's coasting in towards and into
your space.

TRAVIS: It's a Sphere of Annihilation.

LIAM: Yes, it is.

TALIESIN: Oh shit, son!

LAURA: Oh god!

SAM: Is someone controlling it?

MATT: So Grog, I need you to go ahead and make a
dexterity saving throw.

LAURA: Oh my god, roll so well! Do you get
advantage?

TRAVIS: I do. I have Danger Sense. It fucks you
up. Yeah, it hurts real bad.

SAM: I see this happening, right?

TRAVIS: 16.

MATT: 16, okay. You manage to duck out of the way
as it enters the space, and you can feel this

weird energy. Your beard is almost being pulled
toward it, and the loud vibrating (vibration) hum

before you. It's like staring into an absolute
nothingness.

TRAVIS: Take my life, but not my beard.

MARISHA: Who looks like he's controlling it?
Odell?

MATT: The guy who is being pulled by her is
concentrating and moving it over, at that point.

LAURA: Oh, the guy in red? The guy in red is
controlling it!

MATT: All right. That's going to end his turn.
Keyleth, you're up.

MARISHA: (yells)

MATT: I've got to rest for a second. Controlling
enemies hurt. It's okay.

SAM: We can get dudes behind you to hold you up.

MATT: We'll see how I can do it. Keyleth, your
turn.

MARISHA: Oh my god. So much has changed from what
I thought I was going to do.

MATT: You're about 25 feet down the staircase.

MARISHA: Yeah. So I come up from the staircase.

MATT: Okay. That gets you up to the edge there,
where the staircase stops.

TRAVIS: Does the Sphere of Annihilation get an
attack of opportunity if I run away?

TALIESIN: Probably not.

SAM: Is it a thing? Is it a weapon?

MATT: It's a black sphere of void. One of the guys
is looking focused, concentrating on it, and it

moved under his willpower in the direction of
Grog.

TRAVIS: It's real bad.

MARISHA: Okay. I'm going to come up. I'm trying to
think of what I have in range, and I'm terrified.

And I'm going to stick with my original instinct
and do Wall of Stone and try and wall these guys

in so they can't run. I think they can still carve
through it with their big black death orb now.

TRAVIS: They can, but at least they'll be here.

TALIESIN: They'll have to move the orb to do
that.

MARISHA: Okay. I can do ten ten-foot by ten-foot
panels, so I want to be a semicircle block off,

bring up a whole wall of stone behind them.

MATT: Okay. Hold on a second.

TRAVIS: Who can get to the other side? You have
Dimension Door. But that's it, right? That's the

only person that has that kind of a thing.

MATT: As you attempt to concentrate and create a
Wall of Stone, you are unable to pick a point or

an area beyond the barrier.

TRAVIS: The Wall of Force? No!

LAURA: Say it again?

TRAVIS: And you need to focus, or is it a random?

MATT: It doesn't fizzle the spell. You have no
area to release it on. The barrier, while

invisible, is preventing targeting a specific area
to create.

TALIESIN: We need to dispel this shit.

MARISHA: I do have Dispel Magic.

MATT: You've used your action to attempt it. You
didn't lose the spell slot, but you spent your

action attempting it.

TRAVIS: Hey, man. That was a nice try.

MARISHA: Can't cast through it.

LAURA: Good to know. But the orb went through it?

MATT: No, the orb is on the other side.

MARISHA: Even though it's a nature thing, going up
underneath there, I can't get around it? No?

MATT: You're targeting on the other side of the
wall. It has to be in visual range for you to

create it to happen.

MARISHA: (singing) I'll see you on the other side
of the wall.

(laughter)

MATT: All right. That's Keyleth's turn. No, sorry.
At the end of Keyleth's turn, you hear this

(breathy noise) sound as these two shadowy figures
emerge from the nearby walls.

LIAM: Ghosts! Shadows!

TRAVIS: No. What? Ghosts or wraiths?

MARISHA: Wraiths.

LIAM: There's ten different kinds of things like
that.

MARISHA: Hey, was wraiths what fucked me and you
up when we were evil Vax and Keyleth?

TALIESIN: Oh shit, and look what they're doing!

MATT: This one hovers over and lands behind
Keyleth. And it's going to attempt, as it seems to

shift through the pillar--

MARISHA: I look over my shoulder and go: Oh no!

MATT: This one here stays within the pillar, and
it reaches out, as it's incorporeal, and strikes

at you. That is 24 against you, Vex.

LAURA: That hits.

MATT: All right. You suffer 21 points of necrotic
damage, and I need you to succeed on a

constitution saving throw.

LIAM: Fuck! Come on.

TRAVIS: My fucking god!

SAM: It's a 20?

(screaming)

MATT: All right. Well, you suffer the 21 points of
necrotic damage, and your maximum hit points are

reduced by 21.

LAURA: Forever?

MATT: Until you finish a long rest. The other
one's striking at you, Keyleth. That is a 16.

MARISHA: Misses!

MATT: That's right, because your AC is 17 with the
ring.

MARISHA: That's right! I leveled up,
motherfuckers!

MATT: All right. Cool. Technically, leveling up
didn't affect your AC; however, calculating the

magic item did.

MARISHA: But I feated, so I'm good!

MATT: I know. So as it swings toward you, its
claw streaks out and has no effect. And then they both

vanish. You want to take an attack of opportunity?
You can if you'd like to.

MARISHA: War Caster?

MATT: War Caster. You can attempt to cast a spell
on it as a reaction, if you'd like. This one's

going to back away into the wall, as well. Vex,
you also get an attack of opportunity if you'd

like, with a melee weapon.

MARISHA: Does it have to be a bonus action?

MATT: No, it can be an action. That's part of the
War Caster feat.

LAURA: I have a dagger, but I don't even have it
drawn.

MATT: Then yeah, you're fine.

LIAM: They're both out of visual range, right?

MATT: They both are now backing up.

LIAM: One's in a pillar, and one went through a
wall. Are they moaning and shit, in the wall?

MATT: You can't hear them.

LIAM: I can't hear them. Can't see them, can't
hear them. All right. Thanks.

MATT: No worries.

LAURA: I have resistance to necrotic damage, by
the way.

MATT: You do! Then you take ten points of necrotic
damage, and your hit points are only reduced by ten.

LAURA: Okay.

MARISHA: Sorry, I'm trying to figure out what
would be a good idea right now.

TALIESIN: I have no ideas for anything.

MARISHA: I have never done this before, but I have
it learned. I will Ice Knife it in its face. Ice

Knife! Level one, you create a shard of ice, fling
it at-- oh, it's a flingy-thingy. But it's 1d10

piercing damage, and then it explodes?

MATT: Okay. It's right next to you. She has the
feat where she can cast the spell as a reaction

when something comes at her. Just know that
whatever you're hitting is right next to you. So

if it explodes, does any radial damage, it might
come back and hit you.

MARISHA: No, hit or miss, the shard then explodes,
the target and each creature within five feet of

the point where the ice explodes. Oh. I'm fine.
I'm doing it anyway.

MATT: Okay. Go ahead and roll to hit.

TRAVIS: And Scanlan's in five feet of her?

LAURA: No, he's behind her.

TALIESIN: Oh, for fuck sake.

MARISHA: What's wrong with us?

LAURA: Wasted all of our 20s on goods.

MATT: Tonight is ridiculous.

MARISHA: One.

MATT: All right, so as you release the Ice Knife,
it slams into the wall. No effect. However, it

does still explode, right?

MARISHA: Yeah.

MATT: So it does what damage?

MARISHA: 2d6.

MATT: 2d6 damage. So go ahead and roll 2d6. To
both you and the creature?

TALIESIN: Yeah, all creatures within range.

MARISHA: Technically, reroll ones. Three, four,
five, six, seven. Yeah, each creature. Hit or

miss, the shard then explodes.

MATT: All right, so you take seven points of ice
damage, and it hits the wraith. However, the cold

damage doesn't seem to have as much of an effect
as you would expect.

LAURA: It's a fucking wraith!

MATT: That ends their turn. Percival, you're up.

TALIESIN: I hear a whole bunch of commotion, so
I'm going to pop my head up out of the hole and

see what the fuck is going on.

MATT: All right. You glance up and get just beyond
where Keyleth is, pushing past. You have five more

feet you can move if you want.

TALIESIN: Well, I'm coming up the hole. I take a
look. Oh, sweet god. I'm going to take a shot at

the guy I see up on the table there.

MATT: Okay, go for it.

TALIESIN: That's better.

MATT: Which guy?

TALIESIN: Yeah, the gray. And that's 28?

MATT: Okay. (gunshot) You fire a shot and watch as
it detonates against some sort of invisible wall

that you didn't see was there before, scattering
helplessly against the space in the air.

MARISHA: I hate this force field shit.

TRAVIS: It explodes near my head, and I'm like:
Stop shooting into this thing!

TALIESIN: I'm going to drop back down the hall.

MATT: All right, you get right back down to right
there. That ends your turn, Percy? Vax, you're up.

LIAM: Here's what I'm going to do. I'm going to
dance through to here, where I can see Grog and

these guys, and I can see all my friends here, and
I'm going to hold my action to attack anyone who

comes right up to one of my friends within
striking range.

MATT: Okay, good to know. Perfect. Ending Vax's
turn, Pike's up.

LAURA: Pike comes running up the steps.

MATT: She can get right up to here, and that's as
much as she can move. She can still cast a spell if

she wants to. She's going to cast Beacon of Hope
for all of the allies within range, which is 30 feet.

MATT: All right, so that is everybody but Grog.

LAURA: Sorry, Grog.

TRAVIS: That's my fault.

LAURA: That gives everybody advantage on wisdom
saving throws and death saving throws, and any

time you're healed, you regain the maximum number
of hit points.

SAM: Even if we move out of the radius?

MATT: It affects everybody at that moment, and
then you carry it with you.

LAURA: Wisdom and death saving throws.

LIAM: You got glitter-bombed with holy goodness.

MARISHA: Wisdom and death plus what?

LAURA: And full hit points when you get healed.

TALIESIN: You don't roll; you get the max.

MARISHA: Beautiful.

MATT: Okay. So ending Pike's turn brings us to the
top. Vex, your turn.

LAURA: Oh, great. Well, I've seen all the things
explode. Fucking hell. I'm going to pull out my

Vecna symbol, that necklace that we still had, and
put it around my neck, because that fucking sphere

is out and I don't know if it matters.

MATT: Okay, so you quickly throw it around your
neck.

LAURA: Do I still have control of the vine?

MATT: Currently, yeah.

LAURA: Okay. And it's on the other side of the
force?

MATT: This is true.

LAURA: So I'm going to use it and I'm going to try
to grab a hold of the guy-- the guy in gray is

holding the force wall, right? But it probably is
a concentration. The guy in red is holding the sphere.

MATT: Correct.

LAURA: The guy in red is holding the sphere. I'm
going to try to knock him down and see if I can

break his hold on the sphere, maybe? Is that
stupid?

MATT: He does not make his save. He isn't moved.
It wraps around him and pulls him tight against the

area where it is again, but it's barely shifted
him, so he gets moved a few inches, but doesn't

seem to affect him at all.

LAURA: That's a bonus action. I still get an
action.

MATT: Yep, and movement.

LAURA: And movement. Oh god. I'm going to spread
out. I'm going to come over here, maybe? Or here.

Oh jeez. I don't know. I can't hit anybody! I'm
going to wait. I'm going to hold my action until I

see something getting through that fucking force
wall.

TALIESIN: Until there's something to hit.

LAURA: So that I can attack him.

MATT: Sounds good. All right, Vex, that's the end
of your turn. Grog, you're up.

TRAVIS: I'm going to try and run through the Wall
of Force. It's only five feet of my movement, and

we'll see what happens.

MATT: All right, you slam face-first into a stone
wall. Immediately, the anger fills through you,

the familiar smell and taste of iron-like blood as
you seem to have busted some element of your nose

in the impact.

TRAVIS: Probably some eyelids? Do I go anywhere?
Not even an inch?

MATT: No.

TRAVIS: What if I channel all the rage from my
life, and I draw on the undead? Okay, cool. I'm

going to turn around and run the other way.

MARISHA: You didn't get through?

TRAVIS: No, it didn't even give, apparently.
(counting) 50, right there.

MATT: Okay. That ends your turn, Grog?

TRAVIS: Yeah, that ends my turn.

MATT: This guy turns around and begins to make his
way up the stairs and move double dash, and

disappears up the stairs.

MARISHA: (screams in frustration)

TRAVIS: We can't do anything. Nobody knows
Disintegrate or anything?

MARISHA: Whose turn is it?

MATT: That finishes that guy's turn. It is now
Scanlan's turn.

SAM: I'm going to take a few steps forward. I will
inspire Grog, I guess.

TRAVIS: Or yourself.

SAM: I'm okay.

TRAVIS: Really? Okay.

SAM: I'll sing to him. (singing) Don't mess with
that big black ball, it can really fuck you up. I

really hate that big black ball, all it better do
is miss you, make it miss you.

MATT: Oh my god, that was not my intent in
creating this encounter. Take your d12 inspiration die.

TRAVIS: Thank you.

SAM: And I guess I'll Dimension Door, try to go
through the Wall of Force. We've tried this

before, Matt. Who knows how this shit works?

TRAVIS: And the previous ruling was it worked.

SAM: Yeah, but that could have been a gentle nod.

MATT: The wording is important on this.

LIAM: I think the cultist shits his pants and his
brain explodes. I think that's in the book.

MATT: I've had to look this up very carefully.
With elements like this wall, it's a targeting

thing. You cannot target something that is in full
cover, total cover, which being behind a wall is.

Teleportation, however, you're the target and
Dimension Door and Teleport is unaffected by that.

SAM: Matt fucking hates this.

MARISHA: Get the runner!

SAM: I don't know where the runner went.

MARISHA: He went that way.

SAM: I don't see him, right?

MATT: You saw him run away, you just don't know
where he is at the moment.

SAM: Can I gauge roughly how far he went down that
hall? Do I see down the hall?

MATT: Not from where you were over there.

SAM: So I'm going next to the red guy.

LIAM: Also, if you get out of range of Vex, Vecna
knows all.

LAURA: Oh yeah. Stay within 60 feet.

MATT: All right, so you Dimension Door there.
That's your action.

SAM: That's my everything.

MARISHA: We've got to take out these guys'
eyeballs.

MATT: That's the end of your turn. At which point,
Odell, who's standing there currently, is

physically sweating, concentrating on this sphere
right now. Looks over and sees you appear and

goes, "Viskorad, the little one made it through!"

SAM: Who are you calling little?

MATT: At which point, you glance over your
shoulder and you can see that the darting, cloaked

one stops and spins and faces towards you.

SAM: That's not good for me, guys.

MARISHA: It's not good for you, but it's good for
us. Fuck them up!

TRAVIS: Oh god.

MATT: That's as far as they can get. However, it
completely disintegrates the central pillar. It is

obliterated, like it lays with a top part and a
bottom part, but wherever the sphere passes

through, about a good six inches around it is
turned to dust and is gone.

LAURA: Oh my god, what if we fail these rolls?

MATT: He's then going to go back around--

TALIESIN and LIAM: No, he's grappled.

MATT: No, it doesn't grapple. It just moves things
toward it.

MARISHA: You're confusing Entanglement with
Grasping Vine. Two totally different things.

MATT: He's backing up, and he's looking over at
the sphere, concentrating on it. You can see the

beads of sweat pouring down his face, and he's
glancing over nervously at you, but smiling at the

idea that his friend is returning. That's going to
end his turn. Keyleth, you're up.

MARISHA: Okay. Seeing Grog slam into that. Ugh,
fuck. This is a pretty beefy spell, yeah? Force

Wall? Should I do fifth or sixth level to dispel this?
Okay. Fifth or sixth level? Sixth level. I'm going to

Dispel Magic this wall.

MATT: Okay. As you focus and concentrate, you
release the essence of the Dispel Magic, the burst

of arcane energy casts forth, and falls harmlessly
against the exterior.

LAURA and LIAM: It's a higher level.

MARISHA: Higher than sixth level? The spell.

MATT: Didn't appear to have an effect on the
wall.

TRAVIS: Come on, maybe it needed to be something
else.

LIAM: No. He did what Scanlan does with
Counterspell. He beefed it up.

MARISHA: Okay.

MATT: You can move.

MARISHA: It's higher than seventh level? Did you have
to roll?

MATT: No effect on it.

TALIESIN: Okay, it's going to be okay.
Everything's okay.

LIAM: So about that long rest...

MARISHA: I don't know now, you guys.

LAURA: We're fucked.

MARISHA: I move forward. I guess. I don't want to
move that far forward. No, I don't move that far

forward!

(laughter)

MARISHA: I don't want to die!

MATT: That finishes your turn, Keyleth?

LIAM: (singing) I want you to be alive.

LIAM and MARISHA: (singing) I want you to be
alive.

LAURA and TALIESIN: Oh no, here they come.

MATT: They take minor damage being in the physical
wall, but that's fine with them.

LIAM: Boom, I attack! Sneak attack on the one near Keyleth.

MATT: Emerge. All right, so the one near Keyleth.
Go for it.

LAURA: What was I holding for? I was holding until
I could attack something, or until I could get

through the wall? I think it was through the
wall.

MATT: The wall.

LIAM: All right, 27 on that guy.

MATT: That hits.

LIAM: Okay. So that is three, plus three is six,
so ten. (counting)

TALIESIN: If we can hit them, they're probably
squishy.

MATT: You took out one of three between just two
of your surprise attacks.

LIAM: 34 for the first hit, and I have the second
paladin attack, so if it's not dead, I will attack again.

MATT: Go for it.

LIAM: That is eight for the second.

MATT: As it emerges from the wall, its blackened
shadow form giving off small tendrils of dark

black ether and abyssal energy, it reaches out to
strike at Keyleth, and you immediately release two

daggers in its direction. Both hit its form. It
gives this pained sucking sound as you watch its

beady, burning red eyes seem to blink in the pain,
and it angrily lashes out at Keyleth, its form

somewhat more disparate and unable to maintain a
corporeal form.

LIAM: When is Pike? Is it her turn? No? Okay.

MATT: No, she cast Beacon of Hope. So attacking
against Pike. That is 21. What's her AC?

LAURA: 23!

MATT: 23. It tries to strike at her, and she
manages to take the shield and bash it away. The

light from her mace arcing around causes it to
flinch, and it actually strikes a little too wide.

The one that's arcing towards you, Keyleth, that
is fucking 16 again! Yeah, because it's plus six

to hit. Okay. You dodge out of the way a second
time. It's then going to move back into the wall

over here. He's going to move back into the wall,
as well. Both of you get reactions.

LAURA: Pike definitely takes it. With her Mace of
Disruption, she gets an extra 2d6 radiant damage.

MATT: All right, so roll an attack on that one.

LAURA: That's a 21 to hit.

MATT: That hits. Go ahead and roll damage.

TRAVIS: I am wickedly out of my element. I'm
running from an 8-ball.

TALIESIN: We've got to get everyone away from that
thing.

LAURA: 27 for Pike.

MATT: 27 points of damage?

LAURA: Is it a fiend or an undead? So it has to
have a wisdom save of 15.

MATT: If it has 25 hit points or fewer after
taking the damage, which it does not. That one

has not taken a whole bunch of damage. However, it
did take a relatively decent hit, and you watch as

she swings the mace out. As it pulls back, where
the mace impacts, it seems to almost evaporate

part of the shadowed form, and it shrieks as it
disappears into the wall.

LIAM: For clarification, that is the one I hit, as
well, right?

MATT: No, the one that you hit is where she was.

LIAM: Oh, Pike hit the other one.

MATT: Correct. Keyleth, are you doing
anything as a reaction?

MARISHA: Yeah, I'm going to pull out my staff and
do a Burning Hands on him. Dexterity saving throw.

MATT: Natural 20, so it takes half damage.

MARISHA: Half damage.

LAURA: Ooh, that's good. You did the six and the
four.

TALIESIN: And then there was a third one.

MARISHA: And then there's a third one that is a
six? Was that right? Six and six is 12, so 16.

MATT: 16 points of fire damage reduced by half
which is eight, and even that impact seems to be

lessened by the wraith-like being seemingly
absorbing some of the heat from the impact.

LAURA: Radiant damage is the bomb!

TALIESIN: Radiant damage is what we need in here.

MATT: All righty, that ends their turn. Percy,
you're up.

TALIESIN: I'm going to stay in my little cubby
hole. I've got some good visual on a couple of

these guys down here. I'm going to yell at
everybody to get the fuck away from the ball. I'm

going to hold my attack until something happens
that's going to give me something to shoot at.

MATT: Okay, so as soon as an enemy reveals itself
that you can shoot. Okay, that ends Percy's turn.

Vax, you're up.

LIAM: Fucking hell. I'm going to do the same thing
except I'm going to move to here and wait for

something to attack one of my friends.

TALIESIN: That's awfully close to the ball.

LIAM: I know it is. That's what I do. I'm waiting
until one of them attacks one of my friends. One

of the undead. I can't do anything about that.
That's what I'm doing. That's my turn.

MATT: All right, Pike's turn.

LIAM: Stupid, I know. That's what Vax does.

LAURA: I can only do this as a bonus action so
that she can have that up, right? Okay, she's

going to cast Spiritual Weapon. Should she do it
at a second level? Okay, she's going to cast

Spiritual Weapon up near the wall as a giant sword
that looks like it's on fire.

MATT: Whereabouts? On the wall here?

LAURA: No, near the wall, yeah. Up close to the
wall so that she can attack as soon as that thing

is down. And then she's going to hold her physical
action until there's something that she can attack.

MATT: Okay, she's holding her physical attack?

LAURA: Yeah, her mace.

MATT: Okay, that ends Pikes turn. Vex, you're up.

LAURA: Oh, that's me!

MATT: Yeah, that's you, actually.

LIAM: You're Vex.

LAURA: I'm Vex. I'm going to dart away from this
ball as fast as I can, and I'm going to come up here.

SAM: Hey, you broke through!

LAURA: I broke through the wall. I can't reach.
I'm too fucking-- It's fine; I got it.

SAM: Make Matt stand up, Laura.

MATT: Please do. I appreciate it.

LAURA: And I'm going to hold my fucking attack
until something comes out that I can attack.

MATT: Okay. All righty.

MARISHA: I can't believe I couldn't fucking dispel
that wall.

MATT: Grog, you're up.

TRAVIS: Yeah, I am, aren't I? Okay. Cool.

LAURA: Wait, I have bonus action still.

MATT: You do.

LAURA: Okay, I'm going to use that Grasping Vine
that I still have up, and I'm going to re-grab

onto that stupid guy's fucking neck and yank him
towards the wall he's right in front of.

MATT: That's a 15. What's your DC on that?

LAURA: 15.

MATT: He succeeds, unfortunately. It slaps out
towards him and this time-- I forget the adage,

but never mind. He dodges it.

(laughter)

LIAM: It took 425 hours, but we did it. We broke
his brain.

MATT: Blame it on the painkillers. The vine
whooshes out and tries to wrap around him. He

dodges out of the way, and it slaps harmlessly
against the stone and withdraws back into the

small crack of stone where it's based. That ends
your turn. All right, Grog.

TRAVIS: I'm going to put my faith in Scanlan that
some sort of impossible miracle happens.

(counting) 30. Right up against the wall. Can I
look to the left down that hallway? Can I see down

there at all? Is it blocking the hallway off from
vision? Is that a moveable space?

MATT: Looking off, it looks like the orb was being
used to carve a path.

TRAVIS: It hadn't finished doing it?

MATT: No. It was maybe 25 or so feet down and was
hitting solid rock.

LAURA: My spell DC may be higher. I don't know if
I have increased that in a while.

LIAM: It's eight, plus proficiency bonus, plus her
spell bonus.

LAURA: So my spell DC is 17.

MATT: You need to keep up on that, girl.

MARISHA: That was how I lost to Grog in our
battle.

LAURA: I wanted it around his neck, just to make
him annoyed.

MATT: It hits him against the wall. He's still
glancing over his shoulder.

TALIESIN: He's lost visual range of the ball?

MATT: No, he can still look over the rubble
there.

TRAVIS: Not enough to make a concentration check?

MATT: If that's what it does.

TRAVIS: I'm there. I can't get into that hole
anymore, can I?

MATT: Not with the way the Wall of Force is
placed, no.

TRAVIS: Fair enough. I will hold my action until
someone comes within melee distance.

MATT: Okay, ending Grog's turn. At the top of the
staircase--

LAURA: Oh no! He's coming back for Scanlan!

MATT: This guy here, we'll say he got about that far
from the stairs and continues that way.

MARISHA: Sanctuary!

TALIESIN: Like he's parting the Red Sea.

TALIESIN and MARISHA: You shall not pass!

LAURA: Oh my god, we're going against Gandalf
right now, you guys.

TALIESIN: That's not Gandalf. That's a cosplayer.

LIAM: Do you know many hobbits I have under my
cloak?

TALIESIN: Five hobbits in a cloak. That's all it
is. It's not a wizard.

MATT: He glances down at the staircase where you
are, and as he begins to smile, the flash in the

eye begins to glow briefly, a pale comparison to
Vecna, but there is an essence of energy lent to

him from his worship of the newly risen deity. He
begins to speak in a language you don't

understand. And as he speaks one alien word-- how
many hit points do you have?

SAM: A lot. 167.

MATT: Fuck, okay. I miscalculated. No effect.

SAM: Power Word?

MATT: Power Word: Stun. He assumed the smaller
stature of the gnome was not as hearty.

TRAVIS: He's upset that he miscalculated. The DM
wants blood!

LIAM: That's what he gets for profiling.

MATT: He's going to continue moving upward, 30
feet back up into the staircase as he keeps

focusing on you. That's going to end his turn.
You're up, Scanlan.

SAM: Hold on. I need to look up the range of a
fucking spell. How far is he from me?

MATT: It's hard to tell at this point. You'd say
somewhere between 50, 60, 70 feet.

LIAM: I bet your spell is 120 feet, Sam.

SAM: I'm looking. That one's not.

LIAM: Is it Thaumaturgy? Because that's right
where your eyes are.

SAM: You said how far? Oh shit.

MATT: Between 50 and 70 feet from you.

LAURA and LIAM: You can move.

SAM: Yeah, I'm going to move 25 feet towards him.

MATT: Okay, so that puts you up here.

SAM: And with my darkvision, do I get a sense for
how far he is from me now?

MATT: Yeah, you'd say he's about 40 feet from
you.

SAM: Fuck no, it's not. Shit, I need 30.

LAURA: You can move five more feet. You've got
more movement.

SAM: No. That's my movement. I have tiny little
nubs.

TRAVIS: Tiny little nubs?

SAM: Yeah.

LIAM: What about long-range shit, man?

SAM: That's okay. Yeah, I've got longer-range
shit, but it's not as bad news.

MARISHA: Keep them from running away.

TRAVIS: Damn it, Matt. Why'd you have to back up?

MATT: Because that tactically made sense.

LIAM: Bigby's Hand him? Grab him?

SAM: I'm thinking. I'm trying to decide between
two things.

TRAVIS: Yeah, do it. Take your time, baby. Take
your time. Taliesin, give him a backrub. Come on,

let's focus up here. There you go. Support. Feel
the love.

MARISHA: This is all on you, man. This is all on
you.

TRAVIS: Do your thing. Listen, Shadow of War comes
out October 10th. A lot of us are in it.

SAM: It's going to have a lot of wisdom. All
right. I will Bigby's Hand. I assume he's got a

lot of wisdom, so I will Bigby's Hand him. At
level seven. And I will punch the shit out of him.

LAURA: Punch him back toward us. Bigby's Hand on
the opposite side of him and punch him back toward us.

MARISHA: That's a good call.

MATT: All right, so that is 8d8 force damage if
you hit. Roll a melee spell attack.

LAURA and TALIESIN: Inspire yourself!

SAM: I didn't. I forgot. I rolled an 18.

MATT: 18 hits. He's a caster; he doesn't have a
lot of armor.

MARISHA: Kill him!

MATT: All right, so roll 8d8 force damage.

TALIESIN: I have three.

SAM: And I've got one.

LIAM: That's just some dude from Sea Org in a
bathrobe. Punch him!

TALIESIN: Wow, that was a deep cut.

SAM: Wait. Shit. What did I just roll? 16 plus
four. That's 20. And then this is another-- 40.

MATT: 40 points of force damage.

SAM: 40 points of force damage.

MATT: All right, that's a 20 DC concentration
check.

SAM: Yeah.

TRAVIS: Come on.

MATT: 16. No.

ALL: Wall down!

LAURA: Did we notice? Did we notice that the wall
went down?

MATT: No, you don't see it.

SAM: I don't know. Right?

MATT: But Grog would feel it. Grog is sitting
there waiting for something, as Bigby's Hand

full-on sucker punches him in the body, and he
slams against the steps and has to shake his head

as he glances at the giant fist and down at you.

SAM: As a bonus action, can I do anything?

MATT: If you want to do a bonus action, you can't
do Bigby's Hand again.

SAM: No, but can I throw something to see if it goes
through the wall?

MATT: Sure. I'll let you do that. Roll an attack
roll, just to aim it.

SAM: Sure. 17, plus I don't know.

MATT: What are you throwing?

SAM: Scanlan found these two really crappy daggers
in the desk in the casino.

MATT: He pulls one of these jeweled daggers that
he wore and throws it behind, and Grog, you watch

as this dagger passes through.

TALIESIN: I see that, and I take three shots at
this fucker up here immediately. How far away

is he?

MATT: Which guy? The who Bigby's Hand just
punched? Okay, he is about 120 feet.

TALIESIN: I'm going to use Bad News, then, because
that is within range for my fucking sniper rifle.

He's going to take that.

LAURA: I'm going to shoot at the dude in red in
front of me.

TALIESIN: I can't use a bonus action, and I have
to reload once, so I can only take two shots with

my action. I can't take three. So two shots with
Bad News. Here we go. That's a 25 and 27 to hit.

MATT: Both hit.

TALIESIN: First shot is 22 points of damage.
Second shot is not as good. 14 points of damage.

MATT: So as you fire those two shots, the echoing
noise of Bad News's explosions echoes through the

hallway and stairway above. Vex.

LAURA: I'm going to sharpshooter him, the guy
right in front of me.

TALIESIN: There's a lot of noises going on in this
place. I think it'll be okay.

MARISHA: Oh, it's fine. There are tunnels
collapsing and shit. It's fine. I'm not concerned

about the noise at the moment.

LAURA: 22 to hit?

MATT: 22 does hit.

LAURA: 21 damage on the first. And then 19 on the
second. That's also Sharpshooter.

MATT: Nice.

LAURA: No, that's 19 to hit.

MATT: Gotcha. That hits.

LAURA: 27 on the second.

MATT: All right, nice. The guy who's controlling
the sphere, after the first arrow strikes him

right in the chest, he looks and starts to run up
the stairway, and as it does, you take aim with

your second arrow and release it, and it hits the
base of the skull. You watch him go down one of

the stairs.

TALIESIN: So the sphere is still there?

MATT: The sphere is still there.

LAURA: But he doesn't have control over it
anymore. This guy in red is down, so all that's

left is the guy and the wraiths?

TALIESIN: Was there a third guy?

LAURA: We killed him. That was the first guy we
killed.

MATT: That finishes Scanlan's turn, right?

LAURA: Yeah, that was your turn.

SAM: Yeah, I'm done.

MATT: Keyleth's turn.

MARISHA: Okay. I run up as far as I can, 30 feet.
Do I see this motherfucker?

MATT: Yeah, you see him. You have a 60-foot range
of darkvision?

MARISHA: Or I see the glimmering of Bigby's Hand?

MATT: Yeah, I'd say you could probably see him
okay. A little bit. It's very dark, but barely.

MARISHA: Fireball!

(laughter)

TALIESIN: That's an answer.

MATT: As you rush up, from the edge of the staff,
a bead of red light engulfs the hallway above in

flames. You see a split second of him and Bigby's
Hand's outlines before fire engulfs the space. Go

ahead and roll damage on that. That's a natural 20
on his save, so he gets half damage.

MARISHA: What the fuckballs?

MATT: I didn't even roll with advantage on that
one.

SAM: You said Fireball on this guy? Bigby's Hand
takes damage.

MARISHA: Does he? Magical?

SAM: Yeah, he has hit points.

TALIESIN: He could roll a save, though.

SAM: He could!

MATT: Let's check. Yep, it has no bonus, so you
roll a d20 and see what you get.

SAM: 11.

MARISHA: 29 points of damage.

SAM: It's fine. Bigby's Hand has 167 hit points.

MATT: Yeah, it has your hit points.

LAURA: That's amazing!

SAM: Yeah, it's me.

MATT: That ends Keyleth's turn. He's still alive.
This one's going to move through the hallway here.

MARISHA: He's still going after my ass?

MATT: This one's going after Pike.

LIAM: I get to attack. I've been holding.

LAURA: Pike gets to attack. Pike has been holding
her action to attack as soon as she could, too.

MATT: So Pike gets her attack, and so do you.

LAURA: So 20 to hit on Pike.

MATT: 20 to hit? That hits.

LAURA: Where is my other d8? Here it is.
(counting)

LIAM: When you hold, does bonus action carry
over?

MATT: Nope, just the action.

LAURA: So it's 22.

MATT: 22. All right. And what's the saving throw?

LAURA: Saving throw is 15.

MATT: 15. Four, no. As it comes out of the wall
reaching for Pike, she swings wide with the mace.

As it slams into it, there's a flash of divine
energy. Her eyes seem to pulse with a matching

burst of radiant power, and as it hits, the
creature squeals and squeaks as the light from the

mace actually dashes it from this existence or any
other. That is scattered into nothing from the

shadows.

LIAM: I rolled an 18 and a one.

MATT: 18 hits. One misses.

LIAM: Okay, so sneak attack. One.

SAM: One misses?

LAURA: I know, right?

LIAM: 39 for the second attack.

MATT: 39 for the second attack. All righty. And
with that, as this one reaches out towards

Keyleth, your dagger strikes the back of its body,
and as it impacts, you watch as its shadowed form

turns into nothing but a splash of dark,
half-existing ether, which then fades as your

dagger clatters to the ground motionless.

LIAM: Back to the belt.

MATT: All right. Percival, you're up.

LAURA: Kill him!

TALIESIN: Reload. Going to take another shot.

MATT: All righty.

TALIESIN: Going to take a shot. Yeah, let's take
another shot. Probably got a low AC. Let's make

this a sharpshooter, just for fun. Yeah. That's a
sharpshooter shot, so that's a 24 to hit?

MATT: 24 hits.

TALIESIN: All right. So let's do (counting) 26
points of damage.

MATT: 26 points of damage. (gunshot) The echo of
the impact as you watch part of the lower jaw and

throat of the cultist in the robe gets blown
apart. He stumbles back onto the steps that he had

barely started to get up off to and you watch and
you hear the horrible coughing sound as his last

moments of life are robbed of it as it tries to
get back up and then stumbles right back and

bleeds out against the steps.

TALIESIN: We can still interrogate him. He doesn't
have to be alive for that. Any other problems?

LIAM: How's the ball doing?

MATT: It's hovering there in the center of the
hall.

LAURA: We can't do anything about that floating
ball. Cover it with a handkerchief.

MARISHA: You beat me to it, man.

TALIESIN: Let's rifle through these guys' stuff.
Which one do we want to interrogate?

MARISHA: Keyleth goes up to the red robe.

TALIESIN: Let's throw gray robe into the
annihilation ball. Let's get rid of him.

TRAVIS: Vax. Why don't you go down the hallway and
see if anyone else is coming? Keep watch.

LAURA: But stay within 60 feet. Everybody gather
up around me again.

LIAM: Sis, come up to where Scanlan is so I can go
a little further ahead.

MATT: Everyone is barely still within 60 feet.

TALIESIN: Everyone gather up. We're going to get
our stuff.

LAURA: Avoid the ball.

MARISHA: Vax, can I borrow a dagger?

LIAM: Yeah. I give her Whisper.

MARISHA: I take it and I stab it in his other eye.
Red robe guy.

MATT: Okay. (splat) Other eye is destroyed.

SAM: I'm going to use Bigby's Hand to grab the
sphere.

MATT: Do you? Okay. Bigby's Hand reaches over and
grabs towards the sphere, and as Bigby's form

attempts to grasp the chaotic point of destructive
energy, Bigby's Hand suffers 26 points of force

damage and is forced to pull back.

SAM: That's not so bad.

MATT: But cannot grasp it. Cannot move it.
(electrical shock)

LAURA: I'm going to rifle through the robes of red
robe.

TALIESIN: I'm going to get Odell.

MATT: That's the one she's rifling through.

TALIESIN: Oh, okay. There was a third guy, right,
that they killed early on?

MATT: Oh, the first guy. Yeah. Okay, gotcha.

TALIESIN: Assume we're going through everybody
and taking their shit.

LIAM: I'm standing as far from Vex as I can, but I
can't go much farther because obviously-- yeah.

MATT: Okay. Interestingly enough, based on the
current scenario and what preparation has been, no

money on them. They have no worldly possessions
that are what you consider of use. They each carry

a gnarled wooden wand that they've been using as a
focus for their spellcasting.

Beyond that, they have nothing on them except for
the one that you shot has, you notice the

left hand is withered and gray, the skin is pulled
taut against the bone. But beyond that, there is

no other possessions on them, beyond the symbol of
Vecna they wear around their throat.

MARISHA: How many of those symbols do we still
have, and how many robes do we still have?

LAURA: Well, we can grab their robes, I don't know
how many of those we have, but I think we also

have a necklace.

LIAM: Also, we can have Pickle talk to one of these
arseholes.

TALIESIN: I think that's a good idea.

MARISHA: The guy that I'm standing over, red robe,
I'm going to rip his necklace off.

MATT: Okay. You tear it off.

LAURA: I'm going to take his robes.

TALIESIN: Oh yeah, we're taking all this shit.

MATT: So you take every set of robes. And these
robes are different from the robes that you had

seen in Thar Amphala before. These appear to be a
little more ornate. They seem to have a little

higher station, which is why it's interesting that
beyond the robes and some basic undergarments and

the wand, they have nothing on them. They are a
sheer conduit of their own power.

TALIESIN: Were they drilling? I want to take a
little bit of an inspection. Were they drilling

with this thing? Is that why they had it?

MATT: Looking around the pathway, you can see that
a lot of the staircase probably was more caved in,

but has been cleared out by the movement of this
orb. It's being used as a form of excavation tool

as they push deeper into the catacombs here.

MARISHA: So they were holding on to that orb the
whole time.

LAURA: Yeah, the guy in the red was controlling
it.

MARISHA: Yeah. He didn't cast it, though. We
didn't see him cast that.

LAURA: It came out of the wall.

MATT: Yeah, it came out of that little gap on the
side there.

SAM: I'm going to go over to the sphere and say to
it: I command thee to respect my authority and

obey me as your new master.

MATT: Are you trying to exert your will on the
sphere?

SAM: I'm intimidating the sphere.

MATT: Make an intelligence arcana check.

SAM: Intelligence arcana check?

MATT: Just an arcana check.

SAM: Oh! 19.

MATT: 19? And you're standing right next to the
sphere to push your will into it?

SAM: Yeah, I came closer to it.

MATT: Okay. As you stand there, you focus on the
orb, and you can feel your will push past the

event horizon of the sphere. However, the force is
too strong inside, and as you pull out of it

instinctually, it moves towards you.

(screaming)

TALIESIN: Why did you have to tamper with the
fundamental forces of nature?

MATT: Yeah. Ten feet. Which is right where you
are, so I need you to make a dexterity saving throw.

LIAM: Matthew McConaughey is going to reach out of
it for you.

SAM: That's not good. 11.

MATT: 11?

SAM: Bigby, save me!

MATT: The orb pulls back and slams into the edge
of his gnomish face and chest, and you watch as

his flesh is pulled towards and disintegrated at
the exterior of the sphere.

LAURA: Can we reach down and grab him away from
it?

MARISHA: Yeah, Grasping Vine!

MATT: You take 30 points of force damage, and it's
currently now right in your square, right up

against you.

LAURA: I use my Grasping Vine and I yank him away
from it.

MARISHA: Yeah, move away!

MATT: Okay. So you all push him out of the way and
the vine pulls him.

TRAVIS: Two-Face!

MATT: Yeah, you look a little rough.

LAURA: Scanlan, you're hideous now.

SAM: Don't look at me! I'm fine.

TRAVIS: Some other voice starts coming out of
him.

SAM: I think I can take this thing.

LIAM: "So did you want me to talk to one of these
guys?"

MATT: You got the sense that there is a way to
exert your will over it the way these guys did,

but in that moment, your will faltered, and you
didn't quite understand the nature of the sphere.

SAM: I just need to try again harder.

MARISHA: Wait!

LAURA: You got to roll higher than a 19. Can you
give yourself inspiration?

SAM: This is an ability check, right?

MATT: This is an ability check, yes.

TALIESIN: Wait, was that a wisdom saving throw?

MATT: No. It was an arcana check.

TRAVIS: It might be high, dude. You might have to
roll a 30.

TALIESIN: Let's leave it. Tend to the sick and
leave the well alone.

TRAVIS: Indiana? Let it go.

LAURA: Or Dominate that shit.

SAM: I'll try one more time.

MATT: Okay.

TALIESIN: All right. Let's all back up.

LAURA: I get ready with the vine to yank him away
in case it starts moving toward him.

MATT: Okay. And everyone else backs up a little.

MARISHA: Keyleth stares with a vague familiarity.

SAM: I'm going to inspire myself.

MATT: Okay. So make your roll first, as you begin
to focus and exert your will towards it. You add

it on to it.

SAM: Pretty good.

LAURA: Now inspire!

SAM: And inspire?

MATT: Up to you.

SAM: Okay. Plus my what? Arcana?!

MATT: Yes.

SAM: Ooh, that's a lot. 30.

MATT: Okay. As you this time begin to push your
will towards the sphere, you push past the event

horizon, your consciousness connects with some--

SAM: (garbled) Listen to me, damn it! Respect my
authority!

MATT: Some ancient space of the void within this
blackened circle. As it connects-- What's your

intelligence modifier?

SAM: Plus three.

MATT: Okay. What are you trying to will it to do?

SAM: I'm trying to will it to-- Shit, it's just a
big black ball. Slam straight into the ceiling!

MATT: It moves up ten feet and then it hits,
devours the stone above it to create this small

tunnel right directly above.

LAURA: Oh my god! You did it.

SAM: We can use it!

TALIESIN: Finally.

SAM: Have you guys seen The Explorers?

TALIESIN: I'm in The Explorers, motherfucker.
I'm in The Explorers.

SAM: You are?! That's one of my favorite movies of
all time! Can I get your autograph?

TALIESIN: No.

LIAM: Were you kidding? Are you really in The
Explorers?

TALIESIN: Yes! I'm really in The Explorers.

LIAM: Stop the game!

TALIESIN: I'm one of River's little brothers. I'm
Ludwig.

SAM: Oh, wow!

MARISHA: Yeah, he knew River through that.

LAURA: What if we use the orb and go straight up?
We don't even keep tunneling, we juat go straight

up to the city.

SAM: It only listens to me.

LAURA: Yeah. Do you need us to heal you or
anything?

SAM: No, this is a cool thing.

TRAVIS: Yeah, but it only makes a hole its size.
It's two feet across.

TALIESIN: I think he's not ready to pop a wheelie
on this thing yet.

TRAVIS: Plus, remember the guy was concentrating
super hard, so it's the only thing Scanlan will

probably be able to do.

MARISHA: But if he cores out a tunnel for us, we
can carry Scanlan like on a palanquin? Like We Are

The Champions?

SAM: Guys, I think we can make it. No, we can't!
We'll never make it! Yes, we can!

LIAM: All I'm thinking is I could come up and do
Lay on Hands and heals, but I'm like, you made

your bed, lie in it.

TALIESIN: Yeah, no. I'm okay with this.

LAURA: What do you think? Do you want to go up?

SAM: We're still investigating these guys and
stuff.

MARISHA: Fuck these guys! We got all their shit.
Let's go!

SAM: I'm going to call this ball Simon 3.

TRAVIS: Do we know how far the sphere can move in
a single movement?

MATT: You watched him push it, and it went about
15 feet.

TRAVIS: The sphere can only move 15 feet.

SAM: It will slow us down.

MATT: It's a very slow-moving ball of
destruction.

TALIESIN: Bring the sphere back down so that we
can throw their bodies into the sphere so that

they don't turn into undead fuckwads.

LIAM: Wait a second, though! God, I don't know
what this will do. I have a spell called Zone of Truth.

LAURA: So it forces them to speak the truth? Does
it work on undead?

LIAM: A creature that enters the spell's area for
the first time. If it fails.

LAURA: So you could cast it, and then Pike could
cast Speak with Dead, and it would come up into

the Zone of Truth.

LIAM: That's right.

TRAVIS: No, they have to tell the truth when you
do Speak with Dead.

LIAM: No, they don't.

MATT: They don't have to.

MARISHA: They can lie.

TALIESIN: Here's a weird question: what saving
throw do they have to make to speak the truth?

LIAM: An affected creature is aware of the spell
and can thus avoid answering questions to which it

would normally respond with a lie. So it could
avoid the questions.

LAURA: But they have to answer the questions.

LIAM: But they have to answer the questions
because of the other spell.

LAURA: Right?

SAM: Double mumbo-jumbo?

MATT: It can't tell a lie, as you're discussing
this. Technically, a creature would be unable to

lie in the area.

LIAM: Unable to lie, and with Pike's spell--

LAURA and LIAM: They have to answer the question.

MATT: Let me double-check for you.

TALIESIN: And what's the save?

LIAM: Charisma saving throw against my spell
save DC, which is not huge.

MARISHA: What is it?

LIAM: 16.

MATT: I mean, it does have to answer.

LIAM: I like it.

TALIESIN: Are we going to try this crazy shit?

LAURA: Let's do it!

MARISHA: Might as well. Okay, hang on, though!
What are we going to get from this guy?

LAURA: Find out how close we are to Vasselheim.

TALIESIN: Yeah, what's the plan? What are they
trying to do?

LIAM: What has Vecna got cooking?

TALIESIN: What's Vecna planning? How many of them
are there?

MARISHA: I'm going to go pee, you guys.

LIAM: He might not know everything. How long does
it take for Keyleth to pee?

LAURA: No, but how close we are to Vasselheim?
What's the plan of attack in Vasselheim? How big

is his army? We get five questions, I think, with
Speak with Dead.

TALIESIN: Five?

SAM: How close are we? What's his plan? Where is
he?

LAURA: Where is Vecna within the city?

SAM: Who's with him?

LAURA: Who's the death knight?

TALIESIN: He might not know that. But what are
they excavating for? What are they looking for?

TRAVIS: I think I know that.

TALIESIN: I think I know, too, but I want to hear
him say it. It'd make me feel better.

LAURA: Let's do it! Cast your Zone, yo!

TALIESIN: Get in the zone.

LAURA: (singing) Autozone!

MATT: (chuckling) Autozone of Truth?

LIAM: Shit. So can anyone drag him down on his
roll to save, or boost me?

TALIESIN: No. Not me.

LAURA: I don't think so.

LIAM: Does anyone have a cantrip? Okay. All right.
Let's do it.

MATT: All right. So which one?

LIAM: Well, first Zone of Truth, then Pike.

MATT: Okay. So you create the Zone of Truth, you
create the area, the radial space where the divine

energy kicks in and the compulsion to not lie
remains within. And then Pike--

LAURA: Casts Speak with Dead.

MATT: On which corpse? There are three corpses.

LIAM: Red robe seemed more fancy.

SAM: Who seemed more senior?

LIAM: Red robe did.

MATT: There are three, technically.

SAM: There was the guy they killed right when they
burst on the scene.

TALIESIN: We'll take the fanciest cloak.

MATT: Okay. It's relative, but the guy who was
controlling the sphere seemed to be at least

different.

LAURA: He had a different color. Yeah, red robe.

MATT: All right. So as Pike takes the time to
focus and recite the incantation, she grabs her

holy symbol and focuses and speaks aloud the words
in Celestial of the blessing of Sarenrae. And as

she completes the ritual, she suddenly screams out
in pain and grabs at her head and falls to her

knees. No effect. And she suffers--

LAURA: Oh no! What did he do to Pike?

TRAVIS: Oh shit.

MATT: On 6d6, I rolled four sixes and a five.
That's 31 points of psychic damage to Pike.

LIAM: She tried to cast Speak with Dead Dumbfuck.

MATT: She's shaking and grabbing her face and
rubbing her eyes, and it takes her a moment to

come back to you and she looks around, and you can
see a faint bit of blood slightly dripping out of

the corner of her eyes. She's like, "All I heard
was laughter."

SAM: Laughter?

LAURA: And you said it was minus 36 damage?

MATT: 31.

LIAM: Vecna is in these motherfuckers' brains.

MARISHA: Everyone looks upset.

LAURA: Pike got psychic damage from that dude.

MARISHA: How much? A lot?

LAURA: 31 points of psychic damage.

MARISHA: Oh, that's a lot, yeah.

TALIESIN: Burn the bodies. Fuck it.

MARISHA: Throw them down the well.

TALIESIN: Throw them into the sphere.

MARISHA: Oh yeah!

SAM: Sphere! Do your worst.

MATT: One by one, you grab and take the corpses
and thrust them towards the sphere, as they

immediately crumple, fold and get pulled in,
turned to nothingness, disappearing into the black

void. There are elements of the way the sphere
acts and manipulates things that remind you of the

siphons, though differently. It's more violent in
some ways, and it is its own contained magical

entity. With each body, it vanishes in the sphere,
and you all sit there for a moment taking a breath

and deciding the next order of business in
traversing the insides of this titan.

And that's where we'll end tonight's game, because
it's 11:30.

MARISHA: I feel like I always come back from the
bathroom right as we're ending games.

SAM: First of all, it's so great to be back!

TALIESIN: It's so nice to be back.

SAM: Matt, thank god you're totally 100 percent
healed and all better again.

MATT: It's great. Sorry. But
yeah, missed you guys. We'll be back next week,

pick up from here, see as the final charge gets
closer and closer. What will you guys do next

time? In the meantime, rest well, don't forget, if
you can, to give to the Red Cross to help support

the victims of recent hurricane battering in the
US.

LAURA: Look for Shadow of War.

MATT: Shadow of War coming out on October 10th.

MARISHA: Our comic on Wednesday.

MATT: Yep, look for that. And we'll see you guys
soon. Have a wonderful week, we love you, and: Is

it Thursday yet? Good night.

[music]