MATT: Hello, and welcome to tonight's episode of
Critical Role, where a bunch of us nerdy-ass voice

actors sit around and play Dungeons and Dragons.
First and foremost, we are super excited that we

actually have in the flesh here with us tonight
the wonderful Ashley Johnson!

(cheering)

ASHLEY: So glad.

MATT: We missed you so much.

ASHLEY: I missed you. Everybody.

LIAM: You are not allowed to go.

LAURA: Yeah, we're going to put her in a locked
room.

ASHLEY: I'd be okay with it.

LIAM: You'll eat your rice and play Dungeons and
Dragons.

MATT: I'm glad you could join us here for this.
All right, so next up I believe, Laura, we have

some new merch? Apparently, which I forgot about
until you showed me before the show.

LAURA: I was just showing this off before the
stream. We have this amazing Matthew Mercer shirt.

(cheering)

LAURA: It's kind of wrinkly because I was sitting
on it but...

MATT: I have a shirt.

LAURA: So hey, that's in the store. That's in the
store right now.

TRAVIS: It's got the logo on the back too.

ASHLEY: You have a t-shirt.

LAURA: And it's subtle, I like that anybody that
doesn't know what it is would just think it's a

cool silhouette shirt. And then anybody that does
know what it is, it's like they're "in."

TRAVIS: Is that the kind DM shirt, or is that the
evil sarcastic--

LAURA: He's smirking evilly. It's an evil smirk.

LIAM: You know the meme, when the dungeon master
smiles, it's too late.

MATT: Exactly. I really like it. I think it's
inspired reminiscent of another project I work on.

And it makes me happy.

LAURA: That's what inspired us to do it.

LIAM: By the time he's smiling, you're already
getting choked out.

MATT: Good times. Next up, just a reminder, we have
the Critical Role Vox Machina Origins comic book

available on Comixology, on Dark Horse.
Apparently, where it is at now?

LIAM: It's the second highest rated comic book on
Comixology at the moment.

LAURA: Because Critters are awesome.

TALIESIN: Sitting at nine on the current
bestseller list.

LAURA: Of all time?

SAM: Of all time.

LIAM: On Comixology.

MARISHA: We have the best fans.

TRAVIS: Yeah, pretty much.

TALIESIN: It's a good book!

MARISHA: It's so good.

MATT: Next one is coming soon.

LIAM: We saw it.

MATT: Excited for you guys.

TALIESIN: It's got so much.

MATT: We'll have information soon on when the next
comic comes out next month. Don't forget we have

Talks Machina next Tuesday to discuss this
episode. Next Tuesday at 7:00pm Pacific with our

fantastic host Brian Foster to discuss
Travis' third testicle.

TALIESIN: Oh, they found out about that.

MATT: Yeah. It's on the list here. Also, don't
forget it's the last week of September so if you

haven't had a chance yet and you always wanted to
go ahead and join the Geek and Sundry Twitch

community and subscribe, or any other Twitch
community that you've been waiting for, they're

half off this month. So now's the time to jump in.
Laura and Travis, you're going to be at a

convention in Atlanta this weekend.

LAURA: Why yes, we leave tomorrow morning
actually.

TRAVIS: Bright and early, Anime Weekend Atlanta.
We're there Friday, Saturday, Sunday, come down,

see us and throw things in our face. That'd be
great.

LAURA: And we're also going to be in Australia in
a couple weeks, or this November.

SAM: Ashley, what's going on with you? Anything to
plug? Any other projects that you're working on?

LAURA: Are you working on any kind of shows or
anything?

MARISHA: Yeah, it seems like you've been so busy.

ASHLEY: I just didn't want to come. I've just got
other things to do. Shop online. I'm just busy,

guys. Looking at Cute Emergency on Twitter,
there's just so many more important things to do

than this. Just kidding, that's not true.

MARISHA: You do retweet Cute Emergency quite a
lot.

TALIESIN: You're how I found Cute Emergency.

ASHLEY: Oh really? That makes me so glad. We love
aminals.

MATT: All righty. Well then, without further ado.
Let's go ahead and dive into tonight's episode of

Critical Role.

[dramatic music]

LIAM: --me, daddy.

MATT: Little late on the draw there, bud.

MARISHA: Like, unfashionably late.

LIAM: What an accident that was. Oh no!

MATT: Welcome back. So last we left off, Vox
Machina had made their way through the innards of

the undead risen primordial earth titan. On its
shoulders was held the long-abandoned until

recently city of Thar Amphala, from the
Shadowfell. A city that once held the armies of

Vecna, the Undying King who has since risen once
more, and achieved godhood in recent days.

You traversed to this titan, through its innards
up into the city of Thar Amphala; which you notice

the outer wall currently manages to maintain an
arcane dome that holds at bay any of the outward

assailing forces of the wyvern riders or Devo'ssa,
the brass dragon. Where the inside of it contains,

in wait, a cloud of various gloomstalkers and a
skeletal dragon that just peruse the city in

safety as you make your way through the streets in
search of the recently reassembled and standing

tower of Entropis.

Now upon seeking a sword that you were notified had
historical binds to the hatred of Vecna and hopefully

his downfall, the Sword of Kas, you went seeking
this weapon, long ago discarded and bound within a

buried catacomb within a pit of acid along with
various corpses left over from an ancient war. And

in doing so, unfortunately notified Vecna of your
arrival. As Vex passed through into the ethereal

plane, the ring that kept any sort of scrying at
bay was lost. And both Vax and Keyleth came to his

attention. All of you managed to flee back to
Scanlan's mansion where the rest were in wait.

However, with a notification fresh at hand, the
skeletal dragon swooped into the chamber where the

mansion was set, on its back riding Lady
Delilah Briarwood and the re-risen Sylas

Briarwood.

The mansion was dispelled, you were exited from
the pocket plane and barely maneuvering, due to

a very lucky roll, having your Plane Shift
dispelled you made your way into the Feywild as a

Hail Mary. And through a dick-drawing, made
contact with the one archfey that you had

encountered in your previous journeys, Artagan.
Upon being summoned, and your knowledge of the

strange time-altering nature of exiting the
Feywild, you asked if it was within his power to

ensure the condensing of the time passage when you
were to return. He agreed, under two conditions.

One, when this was all said and done, you would
help him assemble a doorway in the Prime Material

Plane, in which he could visit your space. And
two, upon realizing that Vax was of some undying

or re-rising nature, wished to strangle him until
dead. You agreed, and shortly thereafter Vax

expired into ashes and you all spent time awaiting
his return.

We've left off with the return of Vax, but if
there's anything you wanted to do over that

period of time before his arrival, now would be
the time to do it.

SAM: Before his arrival?

TRAVIS: When he walks back.

LAURA: So that we can do some spells that will be
in effect for a day. Potentially.

SAM: But he takes a while to come back.

MATT: It takes a little while, yeah.

LAURA: So we should do some of our spells right
before we go to sleep.

SAM: Yeah, for sure. Is that now?

LAURA: I don't know!

SAM: Is sleep now?

MATT: That's up to you.

LAURA: We do need to do Heroes' Feast. I have one
chalice left.

ASHLEY: But then Vax won't be in the--

LAURA: Unless we leave him a plate.

MATT: Well, the meal appears for a short time.

LAURA: Then we need to do that right when he gets
back.

MARISHA: Right before we sleep?

LAURA: Yeah, hopefully he'll be back before--

SAM: We'll wait a few hours.

LAURA: We'll wait a few hours to see if he shows
up and then we'll cast it to see because we need

time to be able to do it.

MATT: We'll say for the truncating of the wait
period that eight hours go by, 12 hours go by,

it's hard to tell time in the Feywild, since it
doesn't have a day-night cycle, it's always on the

cusp of sunset. And the longer you wait, and the
more the boredom sets in, the more the stress of

the coming fray creeps into the back of your mind,
you find that it seems like far too much time has

passed and you begin to worry, you begin to
twitch, you begin to do search parties around the

surrounding forest, the possibility that he
returned and got lost. You don't know how much

time has passed until you convene to desperately
ask if there was any possible sight, and at that

point you hear the snapping of foliage beneath a
distant foot, and you all turn and by the nearby

tree you see entering the pale, nude, long
dark-haired body of Vax returned in his revenant

form for a second time.

TRAVIS: Yep, that's him.

LIAM: That was a thing. Does anyone have my
clothing?

LAURA: Yes.

TRAVIS: No, they took it and ran, it was part of
the penance. We fought bravely. It's buck naked

from here on out.

LIAM: That's going to make tomorrow a little
squirrely.

MARISHA: Scanlan awkwardly put it in a weird druid
circle rock thing, it's over there.

SAM: We were protecting it for you.

MARISHA: He doesn't know how to do druid circles
really right.

SAM: The goddess Ioun told me to protect it in a
circle reminiscent of the circle of my third eye.

MARISHA: (whispering) I don't think he's telling
the truth.

LIAM: Do you have all my shoes and glasses so I
may have them?

SAM: As Ioun wills it, yes.

LIAM: Okay, could you lead me and my penis towards
them now?

SAM: Ioun be pleased, I will.

LIAM: We're still standing here. It's getting
awkward.

SAM: I'm a holy man. It's supposed to be awkward.

LAURA: I'm going to start the Heroes' Feast, I'm
just going to get the chalice.

TALIESIN: I'll help with that, that sounds like a
great use of time and not watching this.

TRAVIS: I have a question. Should we ask the Sword
of Kas, since it's fought Vecna before, does it

know of any weaknesses?

LAURA: That's actually really smart. Wow, that's
really smart, Grog!

ASHLEY: Oh good idea.

TALIESIN: Don't think too hard about it.

SAM: We can't hear him so you'll have to talk.
Hello?

TRAVIS: Sorry.

LAURA: That took a lot out of you.

TRAVIS: I need to sit.

TALIESIN: Grog, I have an idea. Why don't you ask
the sword if it has any idea of Vecna's

weaknesses?

TRAVIS: (gasp) That's a good idea Percy!

TALIESIN: I'm so glad I had it.

TRAVIS: Oh my god, yes. Wait, wait, if I pull it
out of the sheath to talk to it-- can I talk to it

through the sheath?

MATT: You probably have to draw it.

TRAVIS: I might have to draw it and then it's
going to need the (glugging).

LAURA: Here.

TRAVIS: You?!

LAURA: You can cut me.

TRAVIS: Look, listen, I made a promise to your
brother, he was very adamant that I'm supposed to

stick it--

TALIESIN: I'll take it. It's my turn.

SAM: Percy, what a tough thing for you to do.

TRAVIS: Do you want just a hand slice or do you
want to up the ante and I stick it in your thigh?

I do have to bathe it, it has to be quite a
coating.

LAURA: Just do it, we'll heal him up.

TRAVIS: Okay, cool, come on Percy. Buy the ticket,
baby! So can I unsheathe Kas?

MATT: As you pull the blade out, there's a very
silent glass against textured metal sound. The

blade is so dark that barely any of the light
seems to come across it. Where the blade is, up

close, you can barely make out the outside of it,
but as soon as you draw it the voice goes,

"Hungry."

TALIESIN: All right, just on the count of three.

TRAVIS: Do I get to pick where? Okay. I reach
around to the back of his knee and I pull along there.

LAURA: Back of his knee?! Are you trying to take
him out of commission for future fights? That's

really terrible.

TALIESIN: I said yes.

LAURA: I want to cast Cure Wounds at third level on
Percy.

TRAVIS: Yeah, when you shave your legs the back of
your knee is the tricky part, right?

TALIESIN: It's just so I can swim faster, that was
not for you to advertise.

MATT: As you deal with the nearly hamstrung self
that is your right knee, the sword is coated well

enough in Percival blood as it seeps into the
darkened blade, and the voice goes "Ah, yes."

TRAVIS: Respectfully, Kas, I had a few questions
because I am on board to satisfy your maniacal

desires to fuck up Vecna and all that he stands
for, right? Oh no, Kas?

MATT: "Yes?"

TRAVIS: Oh, thank god. Might need more blood soon.
Do you know of any weaknesses that Vecna has, or

opportunities that we could explite?

MATT: "He is more intelligent than most, but his
arrogance gets the best of him. He likes a show."

TRAVIS: Apparently he's really smart, and is
arro-- aromatic.

LAURA: He smells?

MARISHA: Enigmatic?

LIAM: Acrobatic.

MARISHA: What does he mean?

TRAVIS: He likes to put on a show, I think.

LAURA: He likes to put on a show.

TRAVIS: Yeah.

MATT: "He builds webs of plots, so many things
intertwined."

TRAVIS: Doesn't make much sense, apparently he
builds whips out of plots.

MATT: "Cut the threads, and the web can falter."

TRAVIS: Oh right, he strings things together like
a web, you know, like a dog makes.

LAURA: Oh that's smart, okay.

MATT: "I can cut these threads, bring me to these
threads, bring me to him, I must cut him down,

"now, now."

TRAVIS: Yeah, oh god, he's really adamant about
cutting the webs.

SAM: He's a sword, he cuts, that's his thing.

MARISHA: Wait, cutting webs?

TRAVIS: Yeah. I guess Vecna has spider abilities.
Pro-tip.

LAURA: Okay. That's interesting, we didn't notice
that before.

TRAVIS: Any physical weaknesses, or things that he
is vulnerable to that we should know?

MATT: "Me."

TRAVIS: Him, okay, cool, I think we've got
everything.

MARISHA: He's vulnerable to-- oh, to--

TRAVIS: To him.

MARISHA: Got it, I got what they got.

TRAVIS: All right, next time I pull you out in the
light it will probably be to kill Vecna or someone

that I don't like.

MATT: As you put it away you hear a (sigh).

TALIESIN: You're actually going to pull that sword
out and it will have committed suicide.

TRAVIS: How's your knee, is it okay?

TALIESIN: It's feeling much better, thank you.

LIAM: Should we maybe talk out our plan for the
moment?

SAM: Sure. That sounds fun.

LIAM: No it doesn't, but I do think we should
probably have at it. We've got the trammels,

Grog's got them.

LAURA: So Sylas is back.

MARISHA: Along with Delilah. That's fun.

LAURA: So my blessing, from Pelor.

MARISHA: Hashtag blessed.

LAURA: Hashtag blessed. Gives radiant damage to
anything evil that attacks me with a spell. That's

pretty neat, huh? I have a feeling radiant damage
is going to be really important in this fight.

MARISHA: I recently was able to attune to this
armor that I haven't been able to attune to for a

long time and now I'm resistant to spells. So
that's good.

LAURA: What?

MARISHA: Yes.

LAURA: You've just been wearing it and it's not
done anything?

MARISHA: Kind of. Well I had to attune to my ring
and my antlers, and then I got the staff, so I let

that go, but now I just wore it for long enough.

LIAM: What are your three attuned right now?

MARISHA: I have four, because I took a feat when I
leveled up. Yeah that's pretty dope.

TRAVIS: I got a whole bunch of more hit points.

SAM: What's a hit point?

TRAVIS: It's like, I don't know. But I was
thinking, I have all three trammels, right, and I

need to get real close to do anything to Vecna. Is
it stupid for me to have all of them?

LIAM: Yes it is, we need to spread those out. We
need to decide who is doing what, at least what we

think is going to happen. I think I should take
one of the trammels.

LAURA: You're speedy, of course.

MARISHA: And I think it's smart if Pike and I
dedicate a decent amount of our spell power to

Freedom of Movement right before we go in.

TALIESIN: That won't be necessary for me but for
the rest of you.

TRAVIS: So we don't get paralyzed.

SAM: If Vax has a trammel, and Grog has a trammel,
who has the third trammel?

LIAM: One of these two.

LAURA: I could do it.

SAM: Someone who can fly. You can fly.

LAURA: I have a broom after all. But Pike can fly
now too.

SAM: Don't you have to be super strong to use
these trammels?

MARISHA: Pike is super strong, she's a monstah!

SAM: No, I'm fine with that. Can she fly?

LAURA: She can fly.

ASHLEY: I can now.

SAM: How?

ASHLEY: Well it's for ten minutes.

SAM: That's all we'll need.

LAURA: Ten minutes is a long time if it's right at
the beginning of the fight.

SAM: But that's when we'll need to use the
trammels.

MATT: Giant wings.

LAURA: It's pretty tight. Oh my god you can
fucking fly!

TRAVIS: I reach over to Pike, I spin her around,
are there any wings on the back?

MATT: No.

ASHLEY: I don't know where they are!

TRAVIS: I don't know how to break this to you.
They're not there yet.

SAM: Sometimes they're on the ankles.

TRAVIS: I turn her upside down, look at her feet.

MATT: No wings.

TRAVIS: I turn her back. Just keep wishing, they'll
grow in. Okay.

ASHLEY: Oh, thank you, Grog.

LAURA: So do you think you're stronger, and you're
more proficient with actual melee weapons, right?

Because I don't think I can shoot a trammel from
my bow.

ASHLEY: I feel like I'd be pretty proficient
because it takes the strength to do it? I've got it.

LAURA: Okay, let's have Pike hold the other one.
So Pike, you're the third. And we have to protect

our cleric.

SAM: What are all of us doing? I'm praying into a
book.

LAURA: Fighting.

SAM: Sure.

MATT: To give you a mechanical idea, based on what
Ioun had notified you, the more damaged Vecna's

avatar form is, the lower the DC to drive a
trammel into the body.

LAURA: Oh, so we got to bloody him up and then--

MATT: Possibly. Or roll really high early on, the
choice is up to you, that is the risk you have to take.

LAURA: We don't know, if we try it with the
trammel and it doesn't work, it doesn't break the

trammel, we just have to try again?

MATT: You have two strong and one fragile trammel
in your midst.

LAURA: Oh wait, who's holding the fragile one?

LIAM: I am.

LAURA: You're holding the fragile one.

MARISHA: Okay, so save that one for when he's real
fucked up. Percy and I had a thought for Grog.

TRAVIS: Thank god, because I don't have any
more.

MARISHA: If you borrow Percy's Spider-Climbing
boots I can maybe make some pillars to add for

cover for some of us more rangey people, but then
if I add pillars of different heights you can

climb up them.

TRAVIS: Do I have to attune to them?

TALIESIN: No.

TRAVIS: Does my speed translate to going up things
as well?

MATT: Oh yeah.

TALIESIN: I don't know what boots you have right
now.

TRAVIS: I have the Feral Leaping boots.

TALIESIN: Would you rather just run like
Spider-Man? Up to you.

TRAVIS: If he's more than 20 feet in the air, I'm
fucked.

SAM: How can we get Grog to fly, though? Because
these pillars can't go all the way to the heavens,

can they?

MARISHA: I mean I could Shapechange into something
and give him a mount, he can ride me.

LIAM: What about you Scanlan?

LAURA: Can you still cast if you're a dragon or
something?

MARISHA: I can cast in Beast Shape, Shapechange is
a spell, so if I'm a dragon, beholder, that's what

you get.

MATT: If the creature you transform into has
spells you can use those spells, but that's the

only circumstance.

LAURA: There's coffee all over it.

TALIESIN: Yes there is, there's coffee on
everything there.

MARISHA: Your dice tray dried nicely, though.

TALIESIN: I think it actually has a little bit of
nice character. Look at that.

MATT: A testament to Wyrmwood's craftsmanship.
Critrole!

LAURA: This got put in the dishwasher, and the
leather got cooler after it got put in the

dishwasher.

MATT: Anyway you guys.

SAM: No no, we're focused. I guess we could use
these pillars, but it seems like a waste of your

spell to get him halfway up towards Vecna, if
Vecna is flying.

LAURA: The thing is if you're flying you can get
knocked off, I've been there, and then it's super

bad, so actually the pillars are really wonderful
in that regard.

SAM: If he's straight above us.

MARISHA: Well I can do six of them, I can do a lot
of pillars.

LAURA: He could be off of the tower, yes, and then
it's all ranged attacks, that's what we have.

SAM: All right, no plan.

TALIESIN: The plans are easy, the magic users are
going to be attacking Vecna with all they're worth.

LAURA: Hopefully we'll be able to take out the
Briarwoods before the fight.

MARISHA: I can cause up to six pillars, each
pillar is a cylinder five feet wide and up to 30

feet high, and can do six of them.

SAM: Can you do them on top of each other?

MARISHA: Well, he wasn't that much more than 30
feet last time.

LAURA: He was above us, but if he goes off of the
tower.

LIAM: I was about 50 or 60 feet in the air and I
was above him.

MARISHA: If I get Grog 30 feet up you still have
your throwing axe, he's still reachable another 30

feet for you right? Theoretically.

TRAVIS: Yeah, but I'm not using the axe or the
hammer, I'm using the sword.

MATT: You can still attach the Chain of
Returning to the Sword of Kas.

TRAVIS: Yeah, but it's only one attack per
action.

MATT: Correct.

TRAVIS: Instead of three.

MARISHA: But it's something, if he's out of
range.

TALIESIN: I'll have enough bullets that I may not
be able to hurt him, but I can make him drop.

TRAVIS: What are you planning on doing?

SAM: My plan is to not run away, because we're
going to die fighting or we're going to save the

world, right? So I definitely won't be running
away. Definitely.

LAURA: Scanlan.

SAM: I may run away.

LIAM: If you do, and he slaughters everybody, and
subjugates the entire world--

SAM: I'll tell your story, and I'll tell it very
well.

LIAM: As the Crumbly, the little guy to Jabba the
Hutt, for Vecna.

LAURA: Scanlan. If you promise you won't run away,
I'll put this fucking hat back on.

SAM: (gasps)

LAURA: And I bring out the stupid pointy hat that
he gave me.

SAM: Wow! That's a deal.

TRAVIS: Here's the thing, last time we fought
Vecna, he went higher than 30 feet, he was up

where Vax was before he fell.

LIAM: I was above him though, and I was 50 or 60
up, he wasn't that high.

TRAVIS: Oh.

TALIESIN: Up to you, that is an option that is up
to you. But let me know, because either way I'm

going to either keep my boots or not keep my
boots.

MARISHA: Do we remember how high the tower orby
situation was, did we get a number for it?

MATT: The tower of Entropis? The very height of it
you didn't gauge entirely as you flew up, but even

at a bit of distance, it was hundreds of feet
high.

MARISHA: No, I mean, there was the dome above
that.

MATT: Oh, the dome above that is probably about
another 100 or 200 feet above that. It's a big

dome and it encompasses the entire city of
Entropis.

TALIESIN: And we don't know who's casting that, we
don't know where that's coming from.

MATT: Make an intelligence check.

TALIESIN: Okay.

MARISHA: I mean there's that gemstone thing that
he's using.

LAURA: Natural 20!

TALIESIN: No, but a 21 will do it.

MATT: You recall, the Thar Amphala that is
currently embedded in the titan is not the entire

city, it's only the inner circle of the city. You
encountered the inner circle of the city, and you

saw a little bit of the edges, there's a wall that
is built on the inside of Thar Amphala. This was

the same wall that contained the threshold crests
that caused it to transport from the Shadowfell to

the Prime Material Plane. You looked at the energy
of this field, you've seen it pulse from the wall

upward, like (pulse sounds).

TALIESIN: We could break through. We could break
the wall.

MARISHA: That's right! And then we could bring in
the forces.

LAURA: And then J'mon Sa Ord will be able to help
us. Help us!

MARISHA: Help us! Help us J'mon, help us!

LAURA: That's good, we go over the walls first.
Here's the good thing about us bamfing to the

Feywild, right. They think we left, and if we all
actually stick together and don't fuck up with

this fucking ring next time, they won't know that
we're there again. Because last time they had an

idea because you guys, you know, almost died as we
were going in.

MARISHA: Yeah I know, I remember.

SAM: I have an idea about Grog flying that just
occurred to me. Trinket's big.

LAURA: He is.

SAM: Trinket could be Polymorphed into something
else big, like a flying eagle of some sort. And

actually be useful.

LAURA: How dare you. If they Dispel that won't he
just turn into Trinket and he'll fall?

SAM: Yes, but with big risk comes big reward.

LAURA: Trinket?

MATT: Trinket over there is on the side, arms
playing pillow to the muzzle.

LAURA: Okay. Bud? If you fuck this up, Scanlan! Oh,
I don't have any more spells, do I, to do it? He

can understand me, I just can't understand him,
with my Speak With Animals. Shit.

ASHLEY: Tell him to just shake his head.

LAURA: Okay. Oh, it's 1st-level, I have a 1st-level
left. Okay, here's the thing, Scanlan wants to

turn you into something that flies.

MATT: You hear this slight squeak of a bear fart
in his direction.

LAURA: Good job. Yeah. Would you be willing to--
are you okay with that, for the actual big-- I

mean, you could be up close and personal with
fucking Vecna.

MATT: Trinket walks up to you now, and his fully
grown form is a good foot and a half taller than

you at the shoulders. He comes up and gets really
close and (bear breathing), and butts his head

against you, and then licks the side of your
face.

LAURA: Yeah?

MATT: And sits back.

LAURA: Aw. You can do it. Don't hurt him! Okay.

SAM: It's a plan B.

LIAM: Do you have anything gnarlier than-- I mean,
I'm a little invested too, I've spent a lot of

years with this bear-- like, anything gnarlier
than-- an eagle's cool, but like anything with

spikes, or rhino armor, or anything like that?

TALIESIN: Like a flying rhino?

LIAM: Can you do a flying rhino?

SAM: What flying things have we seen that are
scary?

LAURA: A wyvern.

MARISHA: Polymorph, I don't know--

SAM: I can't Polymorph; I could True Polymorph
Trinket and permanently make him a wyvern.

MATT: It can still be dispelled if it is permanent
on True Polymorph, by the way.

SAM: It can be dispelled, just at an action?

MATT: Yeah. That was an errata to the spell that
I've discovered as the internet made very keenly

aware to me.

SAM: Even if it becomes permanent?

MATT: Correct.

SAM: Wow.

MARISHA: Then what the fuck does "permanent"
mean?

SAM: A simple, level three Dispel Magic can get
rid of a 9th-level permanent Polymorph?

MATT: Well, you have to know that the creature has
been polymorphed into that form. And even then,

it's a 9th-level spell that you're trying to
dispel, which is not--

MARISHA: So they have to at least cast it at
9th-level, in order to dispel it.

MATT: To be instantaneous. Or they have to roll
against it.

SAM: I'm not going to waste my True Polymorph on
that. Just standard Polymorph.

LIAM: Does that mean you could permanently do it
to him, and then we cast Dispel Magic on him

later to undo it?

MATT: Yeah. You could do that.

LAURA: Yeah. Oh, so you could use that tonight.

LIAM: Tonight. To lock him in.

SAM: Yeah. But it could still be dispelled.

TALIESIN: He would have to burn a dispel at
9th-level.

MARISHA: Wait, are you talking about Polymorph or
True Polymorph right now?

SAM: I was just talking about Polymorph.

LAURA: I think Polymorph tomorrow and then use
your 9th-level spell for something major.

LIAM: But if it's permanent, why not do it
tonight?

LAURA: Because he can use a 9th-level spell
tonight for something.

MARISHA: Because Polymorph only lasts for, like,
an hour. What else you have?

LAURA: As we're doing this, we're making the
feast, because we're about to get ready to go to

bed, right?

MARISHA: Nom, nom, nom, nom, nom food.

LAURA: Yeah, so we make our feast before we go to
sleep.

MATT: All right. Polymorph is a concentration
spell, so keep that in mind.

SAM: Yes.

LIAM and TALIESIN: Oh.

MATT: Yes.

LAURA: Oh, shit.

SAM: Yeah.

MATT: You wouldn't have to concentrate with True
Polymorph.

SAM: True.

MATT: But. Those are just the specifications.

SAM: What's more important?

LIAM: Could he be a baby, like a young ancient
dragon?

SAM: Yeah.

LAURA: You can turn Trinket into a dragon?

SAM: Well, let's see here. He has a challenge
rating, doesn't he, this Trinket.

LAURA: Yeah.

MATT: I will put Trinket at about a challenge
rating of six, I'd say. Because he's not a full,

powerful creature; he's a complement to you.

LAURA: Right.

MATT: I'd put him at a six, maybe. High end.

SAM: So monsters of a six. I don't even know; I'll
look at the list.

MATT: Okay. Think about it. Regardless. Who's
casting? You said you were casting Heroes' Feast?

All right, as you set up the table, you summon
forth the meal that is infused with divine energy.

You all begin to eat in solemn quiet, occasionally
discussing plans and tactics. The delicious--

LAURA: Artagan can join us.

MATT: Oh, he does. Don't worry. As soon as you
guys begin to eat, at the far end of the table you

see the orange mane erupt from the side of table
as he takes a seat. "Oh, wondrous. I appreciate

"this, thank you."

LIAM: So did that live up to your expectations,
then?

MATT: "Hello. It was all right."

LIAM: New hobby, or--?

MATT: "I don't know. Have to try when they're not
willing. That's a joke; that's a joke."

LAURA: Okay. Hey, Artagan, can you look at this
wand?

MATT: "Which wand?"

LAURA: This wand in my hand.

MATT: Which wand are you handing him?

LAURA: It was a wooden wand from one of Vecna's
people that I hijacked.

MATT: It's a war wand. It's a plus one wand. For
anyone who's casting a spell through it, it's a

plus one modifier to DC.

LAURA: Oh, do you have to attune?

MATT: Generally you have to attune to these,
yeah.

LAURA: Okay. Great. All right. Thanks.

TALIESIN: There's nothing special about these
symbols that they wear around their necks, are

they? Just since it is in your interest to keep us
alive long enough to build you a portal.

MATT: "Well, it doesn't require or contain any
magic, if that's what you're asking."

TALIESIN: Yes.

TRAVIS: It's just jewelry.

MATT: "Well, it's a focus. It's a divine focus for
those who wish to utilize it to draw energy from

"their deity of choice, and/or just a token of
brotherhood."

TRAVIS: Boring.

MATT: "Delicious meal, by the way."

TRAVIS: Yeah.

MATT: "Is it yours?"

ASHLEY: Yes.

MATT: "Thank you."

TRAVIS: So good.

ASHLEY: Oh, you're so welcome.

MATT: "All right. When do you intend to go back?"

LAURA: As soon as we go to sleep and wake up.

MATT: "Well then. Sleep it is." And he gestures
over, his hand behind you, and as you look back you can

see there's a series of beds that have all
constructed out of the nearby moss and vines. They

grow and lift up out of the natural floor of the
Feywild. As the beds form, you watch as the

tethered vines and roots to the ground begin to
form these dome-like tents over each specific bed.

LAURA: Oh, good. Privacy.

MARISHA: Are you doing anything?

SAM: Oh, yeah.

MARISHA: With your thing, before we go to sleep?

SAM: I mean, if I True Polymorph him, Trinket, I
could do a wyvern, or a young white dragon, or--

Is J'mon a brass or bronze?

TRAVIS and MATT: Brass.

SAM: I could do a young brass, young white dragon,
or a wyvern. Or I could have another Scanlan.

LAURA: Oh. I vote Scanlan.

SAM: Scanlan Two can cast Polymorph.

LAURA: And he'll just hang around with us? Second
Scanlan hangs around with us until what?

LIAM: I mean, that is flat-out amazing.

SAM: We'll see. (laughs) Or not.

TALIESIN: The world is ready for two Scanlans.

SAM: I'm pretty sure it will be apparent that he
is not a real person.

ASHLEY: How will he know which is which?

SAM: That's true. Well, you'll know, because, come
on. This charm can't be replicated.

LIAM: Nah, we need two hats or something.

MARISHA: Hang on, I will say, a second Scanlan
will immediately clue in Vecna that there's some

trickery magic going on.

SAM: Sure.

MARISHA: Is there a way that second Scanlan can
be, like, definitely hidden? So he can just be

(snaps) support Scanlan? Counterspell Scanlan?

TALIESIN: If we give him the Hat of
Disguise, then there's just a magical field being

about a magical--

LIAM: Can the Meat Man join us?

LAURA: Yeah, let's do that.

SAM: Yeah. He could be the Meat Man.

TRAVIS: No truesight? No seeing through this?

LAURA: I'm sure they have truesight. Vecna's a
god. Of course he can see everything.

SAM: But I think you have to use truesight. It
doesn't just happen.

MATT: As a god of secrets, probably see through an
illusion.

TRAVIS: No, no, on. We're going to pull it over on
Vecna. We're fine. This is a great plan.

MATT: Just throwing it out there, based on your
experience, even the creatures around the tower

have truesight.

LAURA: Oh, shit. So he's going to know even, like,
he's going to know Trinket's not a fucking-- Is

that seen on truesight? Oh, no, he's actually
that animal. So he'd have to know.

TRAVIS: Do it, man. Do it. We're overthinking it.

MARISHA: Because he can also maybe just cast
support stuff for us, right?

LAURA: Yeah, exactly. Fuck it. Do it!

LIAM: Can Vecna just dispel the second Scanlan
away?

SAM: He can can certainly try.

TALIESIN: And he will have to burn some stuff.

MARISHA: And the only other thing would be, like,
a second Pike to do all of the Freedom of Movement

stuff, and things like that--

SAM: That's nice.

MARISHA: Those Counterspells, man--

MATT: Just keep in mind, Counterspell can't be
done unless they're on the field to see the spell

being cast and within 60 feet. So second Scanlan
would have to be in the fray.

MARISHA: Can second Scanlan be invisible second
Scanlan?

SAM: He can for a while, yeah.

MATT: You can. And things that see through
invisibility, like a god of secrets, would

probably see through it.

LIAM: You can never have enough Scanlan. There's
always room for Scanlan.

SAM: These are good catch phrases, for sure.

TALIESIN: Depending on whether or not you have the
mount, let me know if you want to trade boots or

not, since these are non-attunable.

MARISHA: Okay, hang on, if someone has to roll to
see if second Scanlan is dispelled, do you have

to roll?

MATT: No.

MARISHA: Second Scanlan has to roll?

MATT: Vecna would have to roll.

MARISHA: Vecna has to roll.

TALIESIN: And Vecna will win.

LIAM: You know how Vecna rolls.

TRAVIS: And we're definitely doing the pillars?

MARISHA: I can throw up pillars.

TRAVIS: No, I mean, are we, or are we not?

MARISHA: Yeah.

LAURA: We are doing the pillars, if he's not doing
something on Trinket.

MARISHA: I think the pillars could be good for
cover and other things. Because I'm assuming we're--

TRAVIS: Okay, cool. We're doing the pillars.

LAURA: Scanlan, do something so that we can
sleep.

SAM: All right. I need the strength of two mes to
win this fight. So I'm going to drop to my knees,

and Wish to the gods that there was somehow more
of me, that I could somehow be in two places at

the same time. I wish for more me. Me-more. Me,
but more. Más Scanlan.

MATT: All right. As the words leave your lips, you
can see Artagan himself, as he finishes the meal,

leans back. "Hmm." Like, seemingly taken aback by
the power of these words you've spoken, as you

watch as hints of nearby slowly melting snowfall
that seem to have gathered elements at the base of

the trees nearby begin to slowly congeal into a
form. You do realize that this is going to take

you 12 hours to complete, right?

SAM: Oh, yeah.

LAURA: So you should've started that earlier.

SAM: Shit. (laughs)

MATT: Yeah.

MARISHA: So can we decide that earlier?

MATT and TRAVIS: No.

MARISHA: That's cool.

SAM: You guys can sleep, then I'll sleep, you wait
for me.

MATT: You'll be arriving a little later than
originally anticipated. Who knows what

ramifications that'll have.

TRAVIS: Just do it, man.

SAM: Sorry. It's already being done.

MATT: All right, so.

SAM: Shit! We should have done that when we were
waiting for fucking Vax!

LAURA: I know!

MARISHA: I thought that's what we were doing!

SAM: I didn't know it takes that long!

MARISHA: We tried. Wait, we definitely mentioned
that!

MATT: Simulacrum is a 12-hour casting time.

SAM: (whispers) Okay.

TRAVIS: It's okay.

ASHLEY: It's okay. It's done.

LAURA: What's done is done.

MATT: Over the next 12 hours, you sit there
focusing on trying to press your will into this

congealing snow golem of Scanlan, and watch as it
slowly takes form and breathes air, and-- with no

equipment, of course-- but has your knowledge,
your spells. Eventually, the completion of the

spell brings to life a secondary Scanlan, under
your beck and call.

SAM: Oh my god. Hello, Scanlan, is it you?

MATT: "It's me."

SAM and MATT: (gasps) Oh!

SAM: You're shorter than I thought you'd be.

MATT: "Speak for yourself."

SAM: All right, let's just see if you're really
Scanlan.

MATT: He's already naked.

SAM: Oh, okay. Let's see. I whip out my little
measuring tape. One inch, by one inch, by one

inch. Mm-hmm. That part's the same.

MATT: "Mm-hmm. How do we know I'm not the real
Scanlan?"

LAURA: How do we know you're not the real
Scanlan?

SAM: I think there's only one way to find out.

LIAM: Sing off.

SAM: (singing) Naa!

MATT and SAM: (singing in unison) "Naa! Molto
bene, molto bene--"

TALIESIN: Well, that's everything I needed.

MATT: You're halfway through your sleep.

LAURA: Shut up, Scanlans!

TRAVIS: Isn't Wish instantaneous?

MATT: The spell is instantaneous, unless it's
copying the effect of a spell.

SAM: All right. This worked. Scanlan, let's go to
sleep.

MATT: "All right, Scanlan. Where to?"

SAM: I'll spoon you.

MATT: "Okay." All right, you guys head off to your
domicile.

LIAM: This is the last check off your list, I
think.

TALIESIN: Some items for other Scanlan.

SAM: Oh, we have extra items?

TALIESIN: Yeah.

LAURA: Oh, yeah. Other Scanlan can wear things?
He's fully--

MATT: He can wear things.

TRAVIS: You want bracers of defense? Plus two to
your AC?

LAURA: Oh, yeah, put on that armor that I gave
you.

SAM: Because he doesn't have any of my items, does
he?

MATT: Nope. He is naked.

LAURA: Put him in the armor I gave you that you
don't wear.

SAM: Yes, yes, I will put him in the armor of--

LAURA: Acid resistance.

SAM: Acid-- No, I have acid, you had cold.

LAURA: No, I have cold now. It was--

SAM: Oh, we had two acids!

LAURA: Yeah, that's what it was.

SAM: Yeah. So it's acid resistance.

MATT: Okay. There you go.

ASHLEY: I have a shield of fire resistance.

LAURA: What about the wand of plus one, for the
spells?

SAM: Wand of plus one, what is that?

LAURA: It's a war wand.

SAM: Yeah, great. Do that.

TALIESIN: And then, here.

SAM: He's also got bracers of defense, gloves of
missile snaring, and a dragon slayer longsword?

Sure, why not.

MATT: All right, so you got those. So you go ahead
and find yourself to sleep. The rest of you, the

night's rest, if there's any final words before
the fray comes, anything you want to do to calm

yourself before the final battle, now's the time.

LAURA: Oh god.

ASHLEY: Fuck.

LAURA: This could be it, huh?

MARISHA: This is real fucked up.

TRAVIS: I'm real excited, actually. Like, you
know, you always want to test yourself to see what

you're made of, what is your mettle really like.
We're going to find out. We're really going to

find out. Nobody else excited?

TALIESIN: I don't know if excited is the word.

MARISHA: There's been a few times that we've all
known we could die together, but this might

actually be it.

LAURA: Oh. That's true.

MARISHA: Yeah.

LAURA: You know what? We're doing it for a good
cause, though. Saving the world.

MARISHA: It's fine. Yeah?

TRAVIS: Yeah. Together, right?

SAM and ASHLEY: Together.

TALIESIN and LAURA: No regrets.

LIAM: These last three or four years have been the
best of my life.

MARISHA: Same.

TRAVIS: Yeah.

LAURA: I had a good run a few years before that,
but this is pretty great.

TALIESIN: I'm going to remember that you said
that.

SAM: Last year I was a crime boss, but the last
few days have been really fun.

TALIESIN: Everything since I met you all has felt
like a dream. Even the worst of it.

TRAVIS: I love all of you. (snores)

MARISHA: Aw, that's so cute; he's honest when he's
asleep.

TALIESIN: Would it be wrong to shave his beard,
just one more time?

TRAVIS: (snorts awake before returning to
snoring)

LIAM: We need his head in the game.

LAURA: Yeah. It gives him strength.

MARISHA: I think it's like his focus, you know?

TRAVIS: Boobies.

TALIESIN: One of them, yes.

ASHLEY: I feel like I don't want to go to sleep.

LAURA: (whispers) I know. We need to, though.

MARISHA: Like, it's weird to say goodnight,
right?

LAURA: We can totally take this guy. Fuck it.
We're not going down.

SAM: Yeah.

LAURA: Yeah.

SAM: Yeah. He doesn't know what's going to hit
him.

LAURA: Exactly.

SAM: We're the S.H.I.T.s.

LAURA and MARISHA: Yeah!

LAURA: Fuck him.

ASHLEY: Yeah.

LAURA: We've got other gods on our side. He's a
fucking half-ass god.

ASHLEY: That's true.

LAURA: That's right. And you-- You're not going
anywhere.

MARISHA: All right. Good night?

LAURA: Good night.

TALIESIN: In the morning.

LIAM: Yeah, Percy, get your rest, because your
last words to me tomorrow need to be indignant and

irritated.

TALIESIN: I've already planned them out.

LIAM: Goodnight, brother.

TALIESIN: Goodnight, brother.

TRAVIS: And we sleep.

MATT: All right. You all find yourselves resting,
uncomfortable at first, but the knowledge and the

exhaustion hitting you, eventually it takes you.
The dreams lead seamlessly, one to the next.

Memories of your meeting, of your story, of your
experiences, bleeding between your fears, your

victories, and the people whose lives you've
touched and who've touched your lives. Of Wilhand.

The fall of Kevdak. To the respect of your father,
and the vengeance of your mother. To climbing the

destiny of the Aramente. To rebuilding the memory
of one's family.

And to spooning a second version of yourself.

(laughing)

LIAM: (singing) Oh, my darling, I hunger for your
touch--

MATT: And knowing that you've taken your faith
from a place of being forgotten to a newly built

symbol of hope. These thoughts all mingle, as the
dark of rest takes you. And as you all awake, in

the center of this strange, mystical meadow,
peeking through the hints of purple and orange

that signify the sky that breaks through the
canopy of this forest, the pools of Nala that once

brought you here long ago. You all awake, the beds
gone, the tents gone. You're all lying amongst

this field in a circle, around each other. As you
come to consciousness, you all sit up, take a

breath, feel the warmth and the knowledge of what
has to be done wash over you, the shadow between

two distant trees reveals the orange mane of
Artagan once more, as he steps forth, his high

green collar disappearing into his long sleeves,
and a cloak that billows past his shoulders and

loops into his back, as he almost glides
effortlessly through the grass. "I take it you all

"slept well?"

TRAVIS: Yeah.

MATT: "Well, then. Time is of the essence. You've
been here more than a day."

LAURA: Just barely.

MATT: "Just know. But whenever you're ready. I'll
see what I can whip up." As he wipes his fingers

against each other, you can see the sparkle,
spiral of purples and blues and oranges and

colors, causing this glow under his face and his
hair as he gets excited at the prospect of seeing

just how far he can tweak the boundaries of the
Feywild that he calls home.

MARISHA: All right.

TALIESIN: Here we go.

TRAVIS: What are you holding over there?

SAM: Myself. My other hand.

LAURA: Trinket's back in the necklace for the
bamfing over.

MATT: Okay.

MARISHA: To Thar Amphala. On the back of a titan.
On the Material Plane.

MATT: "Take them." As you concentrate, and the
spell begins to swell around you, this familiar

energy begins to ride up in your stomach. You feel
the butterflies take form. And as the realm begins

to darken, the colors that you see, spiraling out
of Artagan's hands, begin to consume you as well.

And nausea takes over and you feel yourself
wretched left and right, as darkness begins to

swell once more and close in, the colors surround
you entirely. And you feel like you're being

pushed through a window. As you all land and catch
your feet, the darkness subsides, the color

subsides, and you all feel immediately queasy,
falling to your knees.

As you glance around you, you can see you stand in
the rubble, the exterior of a building that has

fallen long ago. You see large chunks of the
secondary floor fallen inward and dust (poof)

around you as your knees hit. You look up and can
see the familiar green-blue crackle of the barrier

above you. You've managed to make it on the
interior of Thar Amphala. You look up to see,

immediately, clusters of gloomstalkers in the
distance. They haven't quite gotten a view on you.

LAURA: In the building, now!

MATT: You guys all dart. Make a stealth check,
please.

TRAVIS: First roll, first roll, first roll.

LIAM: Natural 20.

ALL: Hey!

MARISHA: Good luck!

LAURA: Oh, that's good.

MATT: That's one way to do it.

MARISHA: Oh, natural 19.

ALL: Ooh.

SAM: Scanlan One, 19. Scanlan Two, 21.

TALIESIN: 19.

MARISHA: 28.

LAURA: 35.

ASHLEY: 18.

TRAVIS: 11.

MATT: Okay. This building is mostly collapsed;
there's a small alcove in the corner where part of

the secondary story is still there. You guys dart
into the side of it and you rest there for a

minute in quiet. (nervous breathing) And you
suddenly hear an impact of stone against the wall

behind you. All of you guys immediately turn
around and you watch as the heavy piece of stone

that marks the outer part of this building is now
cracked, and part of it begins to fall in. I need

Scanlan One, real Scanlan, and Percy to make
dexterity saving throws, please.

SAM: Not good. Ten.

TALIESIN: I'm going to burn a resolve.

TRAVIS: Burning it already?

SAM: What?

TALIESIN: I rolled really low. I want to do that a
little better.

LIAM: So take a conk on the head!

TALIESIN: Oh, fine.

LAURA: No, you don't know! You don't know!

TALIESIN: I don't know-- which is why I am.

MATT: What are you going to do? Are you going take
it or not?

TALIESIN: No, I'm going to kill a resolve, one
more. That's way better! Natural 20.

MATT: Okay, cool. You only take three points of
bludgeoning damage.

TALIESIN: That'll do.

MATT: Scanlan takes six.

TALIESIN: It's just a resolve; I got three.

TRAVIS: Six points.

MATT: You reduced three points of damage.

LAURA: I thought they could be trapped under the
wall or something.

TALIESIN: No, it was fair. I'm not in the mood for
that. And resolves I got plenty of.

MATT: It crumples over onto you. You manage to
pull away. As you turn around, you can see, right

around the edge of the part of the building that's
collapsed and fallen, a gloomstalker, covered in

dust, shaking its head as it attempts to stand
once more. It looks like it's been slammed to

the ground, or crashed into this wall. And you can
see it's on the ground, (croaking noises), shaking

its head and trying to get back up, its wings
trying to unfurl.

As it rights its head, you see a leaping blur of
black armor and red scales climb to the back of

the beast, grasping the side of its shoulders as
it spins back and forth, trying to shake it. You

see this humanoid figure, trying to take something
and throw it around its throat and its head,

however, it's just not able to grasp it around,
and gets thrown off the side and to the back. You

watch as the gloomstalker bucks off the assailant
and begins to try and get its wings up once more,

as the figure leaps up again and shoulder slams it
into the wall a second time. You get a better look

at it now. You can see now, standing at a pretty
decent height, about a seven-foot dragonborn of

red scale and black, hooked armor, bladed and
angry. You see a burning fury in its eyes. Joe, if

you want to come to the table, please.

ALL: Ooh!

(cheering)

LIAM: Welcome to the table!

SAM: What's this?

(cheering and laughing)

JOE: Yes!

TRAVIS: Brothers in arms! Yeah!

TALIESIN: I like that it's kitty-corner right
now.

JOE: The tanks on the ends.

MATT: Arkhan. You've been trying to wrestle this
gloomstalker down-- You spent days here, trying to

find a way to recover from the circumstances that
left you here. This is the closest thing you've

had at this circumstance, as you've regained your
strength, and as you leap onto its back, it

continues to knock you off to the side. You guys
see this confrontation happening. What do you do?

LAURA: Does it look like-- (pained noise)

TRAVIS: No, I'll run in.

LIAM: Yeah, he's attacking a gloomstalker; I'll
join in.

MATT: All right, so what are you guys doing?

LIAM: I'm going to help this guy out and throw.

MATT: All right, so go ahead and make two
attacks.

LIAM: All right. Plus one to--

JOE: Wait, don't hurt him! Don't hurt him; I
scream: Don't hurt him.

MATT: Well, he's thrown two daggers.

LIAM: I did, and they both hit.

MATT: Yes. Technically adjacent, so you do sneak
attack damage.

LIAM: All right, I will.

SAM: Oh boy.

LIAM: Four-- It could be bad. 12--

TALIESIN: Oh, wow. What are you doing?

LAURA: All of the damage.

TRAVIS: Save it for battle!

LIAM: 34, 35-- I can't! It's too late; it's
triggered!

LAURA: No! Don't do it!

LIAM: 46 for the first.

SAM: I cover tiny Scanlan's eyes.

LAURA: Welcome to the game, Joe!

TRAVIS: This is what we do.

MARISHA: Yeah, what were you trying to do?

JOE: I hope you have a healing potion.

SAM: Nope.

MATT: That's 51 points of damage. You have 46 and
four? It's 50 points of damage. Marking that down.

You see two daggers into the side of the
gloomstalker. It gives this horrible shrieking

shout in pain and rears up.

JOE: Now that it's distracted, does that give me
some sort of advantage?

MATT: I will say, given the pain it's had, make an
athletics check because you are attempting to grapple

the entity.

JOE: That's correct. All right, okay.

LAURA: Can we see, does it look like he's got
hands and eyes complete?

JOE: That's athletics, that's going to be a 19.

MATT: Natural 20.

JOE: Is it part dragon?

MATT: No. It is not. It's considered a
monstrosity.

JOE: Okay, fair enough. Okay.

MATT: That's okay. You hear the dragonborn shout
out, seeing the dagger slam into its side. What do

you yell to them as they're attacking it?

JOE: Don't hurt this thing. Help me wrestle it to
the ground.

MATT: At which point, it now thrusts the
dragonborn off of its back. He goes tumbling and

rolling onto the ground, landing onto your back,
and you see it--

LAURA: I throw out the Rope of Entanglement. On
the gloomstalker.

MARISHA: I turn to Percy, and I go: Who's fighting
who?!

TALIESIN: I don't know!

MATT: So now I would like an initiative roll from
everybody, please.

TRAVIS and TALIESIN: Oh shit.

TRAVIS: What's that? Plus a d10 to my initiative
now?

SAM: Does Scanlan Two take my initiative, or no?

MATT: Separately.

LAURA: You're two people again! How does it feel?

SAM: The best.

MATT: 25 to 20, anybody?

LAURA: 24.

SAM: Natural 20, which made a 23.

TRAVIS: 22.

MATT: All right. Grog-- All right. Super low. All
right, 20 to 15?

JOE and MARISHA: 17.

SAM: Oh, sorry, Scanlan Two is also 21.

LIAM: Joe, you're sitting on Scanlan Two.

MATT: All right. 15 to ten?

TALIESIN: 12. No, really?

ASHLEY: Well, would I be Pike without rolling shit
initiative?

MATT: Vax, what'd you get?

LIAM: Eight.

MATT: Eight, wow. What'd you get, Pike?

ASHLEY: Yes. A six.

MATT: All right, so. Vex, you're up first. You're
going to use the--

LAURA: The Rope of Entanglement, is what I was
going for. I can't find my--

MATT: I have the sheet here. So you thrust it out.
It has to make a DC 15 dexterity saving throw.

LAURA: Yeah.

MATT: All right. Let's see here-- Natural one.
Natural 20 to natural one. Back to back. As you

fall onto your back and shout that out, you go
rushing towards it and you watch as this glowing,

long piece of thick rope begins to suddenly wrap
around this gloomstalker as it's trying to take

off again. It gets, like, a foot off the ground
before its wings get pulled up to its body, and it

falls back onto the ground, wrapped and restrained
by the rope.

JOE: Great. I can do my thing now?

MATT: Is anybody else going to do anything, right
now?

TRAVIS: Yeah, I run up. I'm going to run up, and
grab it by the head and neck and lay on it.

MATT: Okay. Scanlans?

SAM: I'm just watching. And I turn to Scanlan Two
and say: So that's a gloomstalker.

TALIESIN: "Yes."

SAM: And that guy, I'm not sure what he is, but he
looks really cool.

TALIESIN: "I know what he is. I'm not going to
tell you, though."

MATT: All right, Arkhan.

JOE: I remove this golden-needled, five-jeweled
wreath from around my neck, and I approach the

beast, and I fasten it around its neck.

SAM and TRAVIS: Shock collar.

MATT: Kind of. So it's a DC 17.

TRAVIS: If it barks, it activates.

MATT: Five plus six, that's an eleven. It does not
succeed. You watch as the thrashing around

gloomstalker on the ground begins to slowly calm
down until it reaches a point where it's not

moving; it's breathing, and you almost hear what
sounds like a reverse purr.

JOE: Does this thing have horns?

MATT: It has a series of spines along the back of
the neck, but no actual horns. It has a head that

flares out like a cobra, but it's made of shadow.
Where the jaw is, its tongue lashes out, but

instead of saliva, it gives off smoke.

JOE: Then I grab it by the back of the jaw, here,
and I put my forehead down to its forehead, and I

close my eyes, and then open them, and they turn
into that thing's eyes, correct?

MATT: Mm-hmm.

JOE: Yeah.

MATT: So the gloomstalkers, they have no
discernible pupil; it's a glowing beacon of

yellow-white where each eye is. And you watch as
this dragonborn opens its eyes, it's headbutted

against it, and the dragonborn's eyes now match
the coloration of the gloomstalker.

JOE: I climb up onto its back.

MATT: Okay. It's still bound by the rope. But you
get up onto it now. You watch as this massive

dragonborn gets up onto the gloomstalker, which is
now currently on the ground, trying to right

itself now, still wrapped in the rope.

JOE: You can release the rope now.

LAURA: Does it look like anybody's noticed us?

MATT: Make a perception check.

SAM: We've been fighting silently.

LAURA: 33.

MATT: You do look and see two more gloomstalkers
that have broken away from the cluster, that are

making their way in your direction.

LAURA: Will this thing obey you? We should get
inside. I let go of the rope and go back in the

building so that we can hide.

MATT: Okay. Everyone else following?

LAURA: I cast Pass Without a Trace on all of us.

MATT: Everyone else following suit?

SAM: Yes.

MATT: Okay. You?

JOE: Yeah. Absolutely.

MATT: All right. Do you leave the gloomstalker
where it is and then step inside with them?

JOE: Can I take it with me?

MATT: If you want to.

JOE: I'd like to take it with me.

MATT: As you guys all dart inside this alcove in
the building-- Like, most of the roof is gone;

there's a section of roof that's there. It can
hide most of you. The gloomstalker's a bit large,

as you all cluster into the space, as it looms in.
(heavy footsteps) This is the second time you've

had an allied gloomstalker this close, and it's a
very upsetting proximity.

MARISHA: Uncomfortable elevator at a convention.

MATT: Kind of. As you guys pull into the side, I'd
like you all to make a stealth check, please.

MARISHA: Why did you wear wings?

LAURA: Stealth check!

JOE: If I'm on its back, does that have anything
to do with my plate armor? Meaning, am I relying

on some form of stalking that doesn't make my
armor clank around?

MATT: Unfortunately, as you're still riding it and
it moves and shifts, there is still the plate

sitting against it, so you would still be at a
disadvantage.

JOE: Am I the only one in plate armor here?

LAURA: No, she's got plate armor.

ASHLEY: Nope. Clanky twins!

JOE: I just didn't want to be fully responsible.

TRAVIS: She has something that makes her less
clanky-like.

LAURA: Yeah, you got your boots.

ASHLEY: Boots!?

LAURA: Yeah, so you don't roll at disadvantage
anymore.

ASHLEY: Wait, wait.

LAURA: Yeah. You got non-clanky boots.

JOE: And I am at disadvantage? (sighs)

LAURA: Add ten to your roll.

SAM: Yeah, you're fine.

JOE: Okay. 20.

TRAVIS: Aw, yeah!

JOE: Disadvantage.

MATT: By the way, there's your stat sheet for the
gloomstalker.

JOE: Yes!

MATT: It's taken 50 damage, so you can note that.

JOE: Can I feed it a healing potion?

MATT: When you have a moment you can, yeah.

JOE: Yeah. Trust me. It's all going to work out.
What could go wrong?

LIAM: You were jumping at him, and punching him in
the face. I thought wrong. I do that sometimes.

ASHLEY: Do you have a name for him?

SAM: Do you have a name?

ASHLEY: Do you have a name? That's true. I just
love animals.

SAM: We can kill you any second, so be scared of
us, if you're an evil person.

JOE: You could. But I know these two.

SAM: What?

MATT: And there's a moment of recognition for
Percival and Keyleth.

MARISHA: Oh, holy shit.

TRAVIS: No way.

MARISHA: Oh. It's been, like-- two years?

TALIESIN: At least two years.

JOE: At least. Percival, you've aged. Keyleth, you
still look the same.

MARISHA: (giggles)

TALIESIN: She got a haircut.

LAURA: Oh, shit. Are you going to let him do that
to your girl?

MATT: It's at this moment you hear two heavy
impacts from nearby rooftops.

TRAVIS: Okay. Maybe not the best reunion time.

MATT: As you all stay as silent as possible,
waiting, one of them takes off. And you can see it

arc barely over the opening, but seems to be doing
a wide sweep, out of visual range. The other one

appears to be stalking from rooftop to rooftop,
not far from you. (thudding) (sniffing and

croaking) It leaps and lands on top of the small
part of the roof that's above you guys. It holds.

A few rocks tumble around you as you're quietly in
that space, hoping. (thudding and croaking) Its

head peeks over the edge and looks straight down,
right into all of you.

LAURA: Oh, God darn it.

MATT: What are you doing?

LAURA: I shoot an arrow into its eyeball.

MATT: Okay. So as soon as the head passes over,
make your attacks. You're close enough to get one

swipe up, because you're on the back of a
gloomstalker. So as its head peeks down, you can

get a strike at it.

TRAVIS: How high up?

MATT: It's about, I'd say, 12 to 15 feet up.

LAURA: 35.

MATT: That hits.

JOE: That's going to be a 31.

MATT: That hits.

JOE: Damn, that's a Vox Machina number. About damn
time. That's what level 17 will get you. All

right. Yeah.

MATT: All righty. So.

LIAM: 20, 21, and a miss.

MATT: Okay. So those both hit.

LAURA: 25 damage.

MATT: 25 damage, all righty.

LAURA: Oh, and I get to do it again?

MATT: You do.

LIAM: Is his proximity close enough that either of
these guys are within five feet, or anybody's

within--?

MATT: No. Oh, I'd say Arkhan probably is.

LAURA: 18?

MATT: 18 damage?

LAURA: 18, does that hit?

MATT: That does hit, yeah.

LAURA: Okay.

SAM: Come on, insta-kill this thing.

MARISHA: I know. I don't want to have to do
anything.

LAURA: 18.

MATT: Okay.

JOE: This is the paladin dilemma. I think I'm
going to save the spell slots. But I am going to

swing at this guy.

MATT: Go for it.

JOE: Okay, I'm going to swing my battleaxe,
Fane-Eater.

MATT: Okay. So you get two attacks with that.

JOE: Great. Oh, okay. Well, one was 31.

MATT: Yep.

JOE: Oh, that's going to be nine, plus 14. That's
23 points of damage on the first one. And then

second attack is going to be a 23.

MATT: That hits.

JOE: And that's going to be 21 points of damage on
the second.

MATT: All right. And with that, as soon as its
head peeks over the edge, two arrows (whooshing)

under its throat, and you watch as an axe cuts
part of its head clean off, as it tries to make a

noise, but the blade is caught in its throat and
prevents the air passage. As Fane-Eater is yanked

out of the side, you see the jagged edge of the
axe arc back, causing blood to splatter across the

back, the wall behind him, as Arkhan goes in with a
second swipe. And with one clean cleave motion,

the head falls and plummets into the ground. The
rest of the gloomstalker tumbles in, lifeless,

into the rock. And you see as it lands, its wings
sprawl out and slowly the body begins to dissolve

into black smoke and shadow.

SAM: I run out and I say: Wait! Don't kill it! I'm
just kidding. It's fine.

TALIESIN: Vox Machina, may we introduce you to
Arkhan?

SAM: Arkhan?

MARISHA: Arkhan.

SAM: Hi.

MARISHA: You look like you've, you know-- You look
like us. You got more stuff. We've acquired more

stuff, over the years. That's cool.

SAM: How do you know this gentleman?

TALIESIN: We did some work, ages ago.

MARISHA: Yeah, forever. Before we really knew any
of you.

JOE: The temple of Shumash.

LAURA: How did you get here?

MARISHA: It was a crappy swamp. It was good times.
Yeah.

MATT: Technically it was a desert, but yeah.

MARISHA: It was a crappy desert. Good times.

SAM: Well, it was the worst kind of swamp. It was
one with no water.

MARISHA: It was, yes. The driest of swamps, yeah.

TALIESIN: What are you doing here?

JOE: That's a long story. Weeks ago, we wound up
attacked by a cult, my companions and I. This cult

was led by a Death Knight. And a sorcerous
woman.

SAM: Lady Briarwood.

MARISHA: Sylas?

JOE: And then Vecna followed. And we were
ambushed. My companions and I were marked for

death. They were all destroyed. And I watched that
Death Knight burn the closest thing I've ever had

to a brother. And he cut the still-beating heart
out of our goliath. And then these buzzards came

to pick my bones, thinking I was dead. But I
wouldn't die. The queen had another plan for me.

SAM: The queen? What kind of queen?

JOE: I hold up my shield.

MATT: Make a religion check, Scanlan.

SAM: Hm, that's no good. 11?

MATT: You have passing knowledge that the symbols
that adorn both around Arkhan's throat and the

shield that he holds up are that of the Scaled
Tyrant, Tiamat, which is the patron god to

chromatic and evil dragons all across the world.

LAURA: Oh, he's evil. That's evil. That's the evil
dragon. Potentially.

SAM: You serve this queen?

TALIESIN: He's our kind of evil. It's fine.

JOE: I understand that because of my dogma, we
belong to groups that would never mix, but I can

assure you, if you help me get revenge on the one
that killed my friends, I swear to you, I will

fight for your lives with the fury of a man who is
already dead.

TALIESIN: I think we have a surprising amount
already in common.

TRAVIS: Good pitch.

SAM: Devil's advocate: maybe not. I don't know,
maybe--

LIAM: I mean, I'm just going to do an insight
check on principle.

JOE: I make the gloomstalker snarl at the two
Scanlans.

MATT: (snarls)

LIAM: Yeah, I rolled an eight. He checks out.

MARISHA: Quick question. We didn't roll our
temporary hit points for our Heroes' Feast.

MATT: Oh, you did not. You should do that.

MARISHA: Can we do that? Or does Pike do that for
us?

MATT: Yeah, Pike, you roll the temporary hit
points.

MARISHA: For all of us, right? It's an additional
2d10, I'm pretty sure.

MATT: So roll 2d10, Pike. And everyone who was
present for that--

LAURA: Oh, yeah, you should give us a speech. How
long does that last?

MARISHA: Oh, I totally should've given a speech.

LIAM: That's a ten-minute one, yeah?

MARISHA: No, it's a short rest thing. But it's a
thing that lasts until--

LAURA: Later, then.

MARISHA: Yeah. I should've done that before, but
I'll do it next time.

SAM: Whatcha doing over there, Johnson?

ASHLEY: I'm just looking for my tens!

LAURA: Oh no!

LIAM: Two ones.

MARISHA: Two ones?

ASHLEY: Wait, are these 12s?

LAURA: No, those are tens.

MATT: All right. So you guys gain two additional
hit points, to your max hit points.

LAURA: That is such a bummer.

JOE: Is that everybody?

MATT: Yeah. You weren't there for the meal,
unfortunately. It's from earlier.

LAURA: It's okay; the meal didn't do a lot,
apparently.

ASHLEY: So glad I'm here to be useful.

MATT: However, everyone does still have their
advantage on wisdom saving throws and you're

immune to fear. Which is pretty huge.

MARISHA: And poison.

MATT: And poison. The hit points are more of,
like, a bonus. You're fine.

LIAM: It was slim fast. Slim feast.

MATT and MARISHA: Slim feast!

JOE: Can I feed this thing a healing potion?

MATT: You may.

ASHLEY: I really thought I was going to roll two
tens.

JOE: Greater? I think greater.

MATT: If you have, yeah--

JOE: I have a greater.

MATT: So that would be 4d4 plus four.

ASHLEY: I rolled the wrong, I actually rolled the
wrong tens.

JOE: That's nine; that's not great.

SAM: No, that's not great. We'll figure it out
later.

TALIESIN: We know Lay on Hands and some such.

JOE: Well, I have them, I just don't want to blow
them.

TRAVIS: Wait. You can't die?

SAM: Is that true? Wait, when did he say he
couldn't die?

TRAVIS: Well, he said, like, "She thought I was
dead, but my queen--"

SAM: He said he would fight like a man who is
dead, but he wasn't--

TALIESIN: It was a metaphor, Grog. It was a
metaphor.

SAM: Oh, no, you're right.

LIAM: Do you mean actually; have you died?

JOE: It's kind of a colloquialism for religious
folk. You know what I mean? Like, I hit a death save.

LAURA: Oh, tight, tight, tight, tight.

SAM: I touch him to see if he's real.

JOE: I blow smoke out of my nostrils, like a
little fire.

SAM: Kind of squishy. Really soft.

TRAVIS: Thank god he's wearing that armor, huh?

SAM: Yeah. Pudgy.

JOE: I'm going to pump 30, then, back into this
gloomstalker. Plus the nine. So there was, what,

51 that came off?

MATT: 50 points of damage were taken off.

JOE: 50 points, so I put 39 back on, so that's 11
off.

MATT: Yep, you got it.

TRAVIS: When do we want to do Freedom of Movement
stuff? Not yet?

LIAM: That's short term.

LAURA: Right before. That only lasts for an hour.
Here's the thing. Do we go for the outer walls to

take out the shield first? Probably. Once we go
in, we're going in.

SAM: The outer walls of the city?

LAURA: Of Thar Amphala, yes.

SAM: How are we going to take down entire walls
without being--

LAURA: We don't have to take out the walls. We
have to break a couple of the crystals.

MARISHA: Yeah, those crystals that we started to
break when we were in the Shadowfell.

TALIESIN: If just do a hit and run, we can cause
so much chaos that all of these gloomstalkers are

going to be busy dealing with everything in the
air.

LAURA: Hey! You remember our old plan of just set
everything on fire? Let's set everything on fire!

MARISHA: Yeah! In fact, that's actually a
brilliant plan. We could disable a crystal, maybe

I could light a signal, distract people. While
they're distracted, we make it to the next one.

TALIESIN: And as long as we're close to that one,
they don't know that we're here. They can't see us.

JOE: What are these crystals?

SAM: We don't know where these crystals are!

TALIESIN: They're all around the outer wall.

LAURA: We saw them when we were in the city
before.

MARISHA: Yeah, in the Shadowfell. Remember, we
jabbed at one, and decided against it.

SAM: All right.

TALIESIN: If we break these crystals, this could
help--

MARISHA: Everything.

TRAVIS: Does anyone know that you're here?

JOE: Vecna. The female wizardess.

LAURA: She knows?

JOE: And the Death Knight.

TALIESIN: And if they've been watching, he just
vanished. We should run now.

JOE: But they thought I was dead. They left me for
dead.

LAURA: So they don't necessarily know you're in the
city.

JOE: I think they'd be surprised to see me.

LAURA: Okay. All right, cool.

MARISHA: Let's move.

LAURA: Okay, stealthily, let's try to make it to
the outer wall so that we can cut out some of

these crystals.

MATT: Okay. First off, make a perception check as
you glance out to see how close you are to the

nearby wall.

LAURA: 30.

MATT: 30, okay. You notice you're on a different
part of the city than you were previously. If the

city's moving forward, if you consider the
direction that the titan is traversing

forward, you guys were to the back and right side
of Thar Amphala. Like a clock; if twelve o'clock

is where it was traveling, you guys were around
four or five o'clock. Looking now at the layout of

the city, you're closer to 11 and 12 right now.
And you're maybe about 200 feet from the nearest

wall. You can see the curvature of the dome is
pretty striking from your current position. And

you can see the pulses, the waves. Imagine like a
reverse waterfall of energy shooting upward. And

every now and then, there's a burst.

LAURA: Does it look like there's an area that the
pulses are brighter, along the wall?

MATT: Yes. You do see the pulses aren't universal.
There are certain locations, about six of them

throughout the city, that you occasionally see
them (bursting), and they spread out.

LAURA: Are we close to one of those pulses?

MATT: You can maneuver there. It's not directly
behind you, but you can eventually get to that

location, yeah.

LAURA: Okay. I see where one of the crystals is;
let's move towards that.

TALIESIN: We'll get Grog to smash it to
smithereens.

TRAVIS: I smash (stumbling) mitheens.

ASHLEY: You do. To mitheens.

TRAVIS: (drawn out) Mitheens.

TALIESIN: You're so good at punching walls.

MATT: All right. I would like you all to make a
stealth check. Are you all walking on foot? Are

you taking the gloomstalker?

JOE: I'm on top of the gloomstalker.

SAM: Is it walking?

MATT: Yeah.

JOE: It's walking right now?

MATT: It's currently walking, unless you want to
hover with it.

SAM: You got to stay within 60 feet of us? 30
feet?

MATT: 60 feet.

JOE: I'd like to hover.

MATT: As you guys are staying lowkey, Arkhan is
currently riding against the back of this

gloomstalker as it's hovering in the air above. And
the stealth check you're going to be rolling is

going to be to see whether or not anything notices
you on the back of a gloomstalker. The

gloomstalker is not going to register on the radar
of any of the current watching creatures, because

it's part of its posse for the moment.

JOE: So is this with disadvantage for plate armor,
or not?

MATT: I would say no, because it isn't a
movement-based stealth check; you're just trying

to stay still.

JOE: With the bonus.

LAURA: Plus ten.

JOE: Love it. Good. 31.

MATT: Shit, all right. You're just clutching the
exterior of it, trying to stay low. You're pulling

into your armor like a turtle shell, since it is
black. And using that to try and blend into its form

SAM: And can we kind of stay under the shadow of
the gloomstalker?

MATT: You guys can move along.

SAM: Oh, 29 and 20.

TALIESIN: 34.

MATT: Keyleth?

MARISHA: 32.

MATT: Vax?

LIAM: I rolled a four, so it's 37.

MATT: Fucking rogue.

LAURA: 29.

ASHLEY: 18.

TRAVIS: What?

ASHLEY: No, I did it wrong.

TRAVIS: Oh. 19.

MATT: Okay.

SAM: His head has muscles.

MATT: Okay. A five and a six. All right, so. As you
guys begin to maneuver through the streets,

dodging from building to building, on the
outskirts of Thar Amphala, thankfully, the streets

are a little more sparse on the edges. You also
notice as you're traversing, and this is

interesting.

JOE: It's his head shot.

LAURA: I would have liked if he had signed it.

JOE: It's Arkhan's commercial head shot.

MARISHA: Yeah, yeah, yeah. You need to print one
in black and white.

LIAM: (deep voice) If I'm good at reproductions.

JOE: This is, like, work in the office look.

MARISHA: (laughing) That's such an L.A. joke,
yeah.

MATT: All right, so. As you guys are maneuvering,
Vax, Vex, and Keyleth as well. You have the high

passive perception of the group. You notice that
the droves of undead that have been clogging the

streets of this city, and the clusters of cultists
that have been running about busily, running from

location to location, with some work on their
midst. The undead, who were just scattered and

wandering, are now unified and moving in patterns.
They're now being driven by some intent. Whereas

once they were just scattered amongst, and in a
holding pattern, now they're maneuvering with

solid purpose, away from the sides of the wall,
and the shields, which enables you to go

relatively unnoticed. But you're seeing them now,
gathering towards similar tunnels to the one you

came up in. You can see dozens and dozens of
zombies and skeletons, and the occasional robed

cultist, both warrior and mage alike, all
beginning to make their way down into the titan,

at various points in the city.

SAM: Making their way down.

TALIESIN: They're going to go attack the city.

LAURA: We got to get these shields down so that
Vasselheim can actually have--

MARISHA and LIAM: A fighting chance.

TRAVIS: Let's find the crystals.

MARISHA: All right, let's do it.

MATT: As you guys make your way around the edge of
the city, you follow these pulses. They occur

every two minutes or so, so you have to keep an
eye out for it until one happens and then reorient

your direction, but you taking point on this, you
lead everybody, darting from place to place. Man.

Rolling shitty-ass perception.

TRAVIS: That's okay, Matt.

MATT: That's okay for you guys.

TRAVIS: Let it happen.

MATT: Eventually, you come around one cluster of
exterior buildings. It looks to be what was once a

manor, that was converted to a fortress. Like a
small exterior fortress to this inner circle of

Thar Amphala. You curve around and there you see,
familiar to you from once before, the walls that

surround the exterior of this inner sanctum of
Thar Amphala, and the basis of this field that

contains the entirety of the city. Looking at the
wall, you can already feel the dangerous vibration

of this field being so close. There's this violent
hum to the air, that with each pulse hits this

certain frequency of sound that causes your ear to
tweak just a hint. And you can see violent waves

of green-blue magical energy, (pulsing) up the
side of the wall, like a very powerful reverse

waterfall. Shooting up, to gather and maintain
this field. You cannot see the crest. The crest

was visible from the outside of the wall. And the
energy field is being produced on the outside of

the wall. You're on the inside of it. But you can
gather the base location of where this burst is

happening to get an idea of loosely where it might
be.

LAURA: How thick is the wall?

MATT: You don't know.

LAURA: And we saw the crest before because there
was a doorway in the outer wall.

MATT: Correct. Yes.

LAURA: Is there any kind of doorway around us?

MATT: You glance over to where the door was, below
the crest, before, and you can see the opposite

side of a door, currently, yes. It is shut. And
appears to be made of hard wood with-- It's iron

bar reinforced crosshatch.

LIAM: Well, we can try the door, and then if that
doesn't work, Grog can make a new one.

LAURA: Yeah.

LIAM: Let me check out the door.

TRAVIS: I'm not really so keen on making doors,
as opposed to knocking them down. I'm a craftsman.

All right. I'm just, me.

LIAM: I'm going to check and see if the door is
trapped.

LAURA: How are you with doors?

JOE: Pretty good.

TRAVIS and JOE: Yeah!

TRAVIS and TALIESIN: Sh!

LIAM: 26.

MATT: Thankfully only rolled a nine.

LIAM: 26 for investigation on the door.

MATT: The door is locked, but it is not trapped.

LIAM: All right. Let's open it up.

JOE: I hand Grog some jerky from my pouch.
Hungry?

TRAVIS: Oh, fuck yeah. Don't share it.

LIAM: 28.

MATT: 28, okay. So the door (clicks). And it's
interesting, as you put your lockpicks in to feel

the tumblers, you can feel the metal vibrating.
Like the entire door is just (buzzes). And as you

hit it, and the door swings open, almost like
something's been pushing it on the opposite side.

It swings open and slams on the inside of the
frame, and there you're looking at a wall of

violent green arcane energy. (whoosh) Coasting
by-- Actually, this is blasting downward right

now, because the threshold crest, as you recall,
was above the doorway, in the wall.

LAURA: Can we see it? Like above the doorway?

MATT: No, it's flush.

LAURA: It's like on the other side?

MATT: It's on the other side and up on the wall.
And currently where the door opens, there is

violent magical energy slamming down.

LAURA: Do you think it's possible to, like, punch
up on the archway and knock the crystal down?

LIAM: I pick up a rock about that big, walk ten
feet back, and throw it at the energy.

MATT: It hits the field, and there's a violent
flash in that section, about a foot radius around

where it was, and the rock shoots past you. Make a
dexterity saving throw.

LIAM: Ooh, that's not good. 16.

MATT: 16? Strange. Wow! That's the first time
you've failed a dex save in a long time!

LIAM: Yeah, I rolled a three.

MATT: Oh, thank god.

LAURA: So happy about it.

MARISHA: You are fallible.

MATT: You take six points of bludgeoning damage.
That's a d4 plus two. But it literally pelts you

in the side of jaw and the neck, and you turn
around and feel it. And you can feel the pulsing

of the blood begin to flow into the bruise that's
going to be there tomorrow.

LIAM: I literally just got choked to death 18 hours
ago, so I'm not sweating it. What're we going to do?

TALIESIN: Grog? Let's start drilling up.

LAURA: Try punching up.

SAM: All right, but if we interfere with that
forcefield and it somehow hits us, we're going to

be hurting.

TRAVIS: Oh, yeah. Not only should we back up a
little bit, except for me, we should also have an

area that we're going to run to, right? Because
I'm sure this will bring the noise.

MARISHA and LAURA: Is there a house nearby?

MATT: There's about a 20 foot gap between the wall
and any nearby building, and there is the large,

fortress-like manor that you saw earlier. I mean,
I say fortress-like manor; it's not a huge house.

It's two story and a decent size. But it looks
like it's been reinforced in the walls, like

somebody had designed for it to be a place to hold
off some sort of a stand, probably from the war

with Pelor's army, long ago. That's the closest
thing to this doorway.

LAURA: Okay, we can get ready to run there.
However, we're staying within 60 feet of you while

you're punching.

TRAVIS: Arkhan's going to stay, just in case it
needs, like, a double--

LAURA: A double punch.

TRAVIS: Yeah. You know.

MATT: It's probably more than 20 feet, actually;
it's probably like 30, 40 feet.

LAURA: 30 feet away?

MATT: Yeah.

JOE: How many gloomstalker riders are in the sky
above?

MATT: I mean, overall? Make a perception check.

JOE: Okay. Yikes. Eight.

MATT: There's a lot of them.

TRAVIS: Sky's clear.

MATT: Like, there's a lot of them by Entropis.

JOE: Gloomstalker shit hits me in the face.

MATT: Yeah. But you do notice that there's-- where
previously there wasn't, there's a cloud gathering at the

top of this dome funneling down onto Entropis.

TRAVIS: Actually. Well, hold on. You got to stay
here, right? Because of the--

LAURA: That's what I said; I'm staying within 60
feet of you.

TRAVIS: I would like to rage.

MATT: Okay.

TRAVIS: And I go: Tiger Uppercut! and I just punch
the roof of it.

MATT: Go ahead and make an attack.

LIAM: Destroy.

TRAVIS: Yeah, destroy. 23.

MATT: That hits. Go ahead and roll damage, d4 plus
your strength modifier.

TRAVIS: That is 15. Just by itself. So.

MATT: Times two. That's 30 points of damage with a
punch.

SAM: One Punch Man.

MATT: Fucking siege, man. That's good. As you slam
into it, you guys watch as, right above the

doorway, in the door frame, the entire wall-- Just
a spider crack shoots up about 20-- The wall is

about 30 feet tall or so. Actually, probably not.
It's about 20 or so feet. And it cracks up to the

very top, and you watch as large parts of it break
off and fall, but it hasn't completely collapsed.

But it's sustained some very serious damage.

TALIESIN: One more and we run. And take cover.

TRAVIS: One more?

LAURA and ASHLEY: Yeah.

MATT: I also need you to go ahead and make a
constitution saving throw, please.

LIAM: I'm going to walk up behind him--

JOE: He's within ten feet of me. He gets a plus
four.

LIAM: And plus two from me.

MATT: Awesome. Well, they don't stack.

LIAM: Doesn't stack?

MATT: The plus four is what you get.

LIAM: Then I'm backing the fuck up.

MATT: From the aura.

JOE: Aura of Protection. Provided by Tiamat!

TRAVIS: 24.

MATT: 24? All right. You suffer-- it would be 14
points of force damage, reduced to seven and you're

pushed back 20 feet, but you're not knocked prone.
So as you slam into it, there's a burst of arcane

energy out of that section of the doorway and wall
that slams into you. You go spinning past,

spiraling, and you catch yourself on the ground
about 20 feet away, in the middle of the open

there. Catch yourself.

LIAM: Feet skidding, like a Jackie Chan film.

MATT: Still don't fucking see you, okay.

TALIESIN: It's a very loud--

MATT: I'm rolling so shitty today.

SAM: Yeah, well. You're going to roll well when it
counts.

JOE: I'll take a shot.

MATT: You take a shot as well?

JOE: Yeah.

MATT: All right. So as Grog spins back and catches
himself, you walk up to this doorframe. With your

axe in hand?

JOE: Yeah.

MATT: Go for it. Roll an attack.

JOE: Okay, that's going to be a 19.

MATT: 19 hits.

LAURA: 19 hits a wall!

MATT: It's an AC of 18 on the wall.

SAM: The wall has an AC of 18?

TALIESIN: The wall has my armor class. That's
really horrifying.

JOE: With my axe--

MATT: It's solid!

LAURA: It's a magic wall.

JOE: That's going to be 20 points of damage.

MATT: 20 points of damage, that'll do it. So as
Grog catches up, and look up, you watch as Arkhan

rushes forward, and with a giant leap, cleaves the
axe into the stone. As it does, the archway

collapses downward. First off, make a constitution
saving throw.

TRAVIS: I'm standing there like a catcher, ready.

JOE: Con save? All right. Not big money. This is
not. It's going to be more whammy than big

money. That's a nine on a con save.

MATT: That's not going to do it. Okay. You suffer
16 points of force damage, and you get blown back

into Grog's direction and knocked prone. So you
catch, but the impact actually pushes you back

five feet, and he falls face first on the ground.
There's actually a dig in the ground, like a

groove where the impact is. At that point, as you
watch the wall crumble and collapse, you see,

suddenly dislodged from its position, the about
two and half foot wide threshold crest stone that

is embedded in the wall there crumples downward
and falls out of its space. As it does, there's a

series of bursts of vibrant arcane energy that
shoot up the wall, causing this side of the wall

to glow exponentially brighter than the rest of
the shield. At which point, like a large slice of

pie, one sixth of the dome falls inward, and for
the first time since you've arrived, you see the

non-filtered sky above of the darkened clouds that
have completely encased the upper atmosphere of

Othanzia. You also glance past where it crumbled,
as the city is at a slight angle forward, the way

it's placed on the front of the titan, and you
look down and see, immediately around, the

familiar sight of the Vasper Timberlands that
surround the exterior of Vasselheim. And there

ahead, not more than maybe a few miles off, you
can assume from this distance, you see the

singular mountain pillar that Vasselheim is built
around, and the outer wall in sight.

MARISHA: I don't know. Do we keep going? Do we try
to get down some more?

JOE: Alderaan is in sight!

TRAVIS: We're coming around that planet.

TALIESIN: We're going to run.

MATT: Everyone make a perception check, please.

TRAVIS: I got this, guys; don't worry.

JOE: Famous last words.

MARISHA: Opal die, don't fuck me!

LAURA: 27?

TALIESIN: 27.

SAM: 20.

JOE: Was this passive perception? Because if it
was, then I rolled a natural 20 of passive

perception. The natural one.

MARISHA: 18.

TRAVIS: Three.

ASHLEY: 12.

MATT: Okay. Those who got over 20: There's this
small victory, and this moment of joy, and

accomplishment, that is immediately washed over by
the realization of how close you are to the city.

The two hours that you were gone, still better
than a full rest, however, has put you within

proximity of the city. And you hear this familiar,
large, airy, reedy, stretched screech in the

distance. You glance over, and you see in the
distance, barreling down in your direction, a

skeletal dragon familiar to you not far before.

MARISHA: Move, move, move!

SAM: I don't think we're going to be able to
move.

LIAM: We can hide, though.

TRAVIS: We're going to hide?

LIAM: We can't run.

LAURA: At least get in this building, there was
that encased part, right?

SAM: We're all in the same enclosed space?

LIAM: Ring.

MATT: There's a tower-like structure, and then
there's that building that was reinforced to be a--

TRAVIS: If he spots us, we scatter and spread,
but.

TALIESIN: We are not going to scatter and spread.
We're going to stay together no matter what.

LAURA: We're going to stay within 60 feet of each
other.

TALIESIN: There is no scattering.

LAURA: Within 60 feet of us. It's super
important!

MATT: If you all are rushing into this building,
everyone make a stealth check, please.

JOE: Is this a hovering stealth check?

MATT: If you want to still stay out in the open,
that is up to you. They're all darting into a

building, so the choice is yours. You can stay
with your beast.

JOE: But he's one of them. So I can kind of leave
him outside somewhat.

MATT: He is. You're on top of him.

JOE: Yeah, I am.

MATT: So. Do you want to try and blend into his
form?

JOE: I'd love to. I think that's what I want to
do.

MATT: Okay. Then make a stealth check.

LAURA: If you're within 30 feet of me, you still
get plus ten.

MATT: You would not be within 30 feet of her once
she enters the building. So.

MARISHA: Can you do the cool John Wayne thing, and
go underneath of him, and hang on his belly from

the saddle?

JOE: Yeah. That's what I'm trying to do.

MATT: Make an athletics check.

JOE: 28.

MATT: As this happens, you immediately climb down
to the underbelly of the gloomstalker. To maintain

hold on it, because its physical form-- and it's
interesting, now that you've been this close to

it, and you've been wrestling it, you feel it's
partially corporeal. There's something about its

physicality that is almost gelatinous. Like it's
made up of a combination of shadow and physical

will. And as you clutch into it, your fingers dig
and begin to seep into it, almost like a cluster

of tar. But it holds you fast, and you're there
underneath. Make a stealth check, without

disadvantage, but this will--

LAURA: Is it a boy or a girl gloomstalker?

JOE: I'm close enough to know.

MATT: Gloomstalkers are actually sexless. They
have no natural--

JOE: (whispers) It seems to be asexual. Oh, do I
have a little--?

MATT: You do not.

JOE: (groans)

LAURA: Oh no.

JOE: This is going to be an 11.

MATT: Okay. Good to know. The rest of you guys?

JOE: That was a shitty roll.

TRAVIS: Oh, 16. No, 18.

LAURA: Add ten.

TRAVIS: I did.

ASHLEY: 22.

LAURA: 33.

LIAM: 46.

MARISHA: 27.

TALIESIN: 30.

SAM: 19 and 30.

MATT: Okay.

LAURA: No, 43.

MATT: Okay. As you guys all dart into this
building, you all quietly listen outside, as you

maintain, hovering in place. The skeletal dragon
(croaking) swoops down. As its wings catch itself,

the wind billows through the space in the center
here. You can see a bunch of the dust and pebbles

and loose rubble that's been built up around here,
and the wall that was left behind just gets kicked

up, and spins a brief dust devil in the vicinity.
The skeletal dragon there, still flying. Make a

perception check.

LAURA: But we're within 60 feet of him, right? You
said we weren't within 30.

MATT: He's kept relatively close to the building.

LAURA: Okay.

JOE: So I didn't get the plus ten.

LAURA and MATT: No.

LAURA: But you're still hidden from view from
Vecna.

JOE: Perception. That's not terrible. That's a 16
perception.

MATT: Okay. As soon as the dragon gets close-- and
you've seen it flying about, up in the

stratosphere area of this dome before-- you can
see there are still bits of flesh dangling off of

the bones. And it is a familiar-colored flesh.

LAURA: (gasps)

TALIESIN and SAM: Oh, no.

MATT: Whereas you and your adventuring party had
traveled here before, this risen dragon form

seems to have been torn from the corpse of the
mount that brought you to this city.

JOE: Oh, no.

MATT: You see, as the skull of its body, its eyes
crackling bright blue-green energy, there on the

back of this dragon, you see two humanoids
standing on its back. You see a dark armored male

with pale skin, with a well-kept beard and short
hair, with his arm around the waist of a female,

who's currently clutching onto the back of its
bones. You can see the woman, in a red robe that's

being blown up, her hair bound in the front, wild
behind, as she has a necklace bauble that hangs

around her neck, crackling blue-green energy. As
she has her hand forward, she glances around at

the space, angrily. "What!?" (heavy breathing)
Looks over at the gloomstalker. "Oh. What have we

"here? Is this your doing?"

SAM: Maybe she doesn't see you. Maybe she's
talking to the gloomstalker.

JOE: I control the gloomstalker and make him
screech.

MATT: (screeches) "Adorable. Wouldn't you say so,
honey?" And the man behind her goes, "Oh, quite.

"Well, I'm a fan of taking thorns out of my side.
Is it time we do a bit of surgery, darling?" And

the woman goes, "But of course. Oh, how I've
missed you." And she nuzzles into his neck a bit,

and turns around. The dragon lands onto the tower
across the way, facing in the direction of the

gloomstalker, and it inhales. And you watch as it
begins to breathe in, all of the shards of bone

matter that have been scattered across the streets
of the city begin to whip up and spiral into its

ribcage, like a blender. As it pulls back (roar)
and as the dragon's mouth opens it releases a

blast of bone shards that arc out in front of you.
You and the gloomstalker, each, I need--

SAM: Into the earring I say, this is our chance,
we leave him as a distraction and we go. They don't

know we're here, we can run!

MATT: You and the gloomstalker make a dexterity
saving throw please.

LAURA: But here's the thing, we're not going to
have a better chance to get them away from Vecna.

Should we attack them now?

TRAVIS: Plus we have one extra ally. Two!

LAURA: We can attack them now, away from Vecna.

JOE: You said dex save?

MATT: Correct.

JOE: I actually have an advantage on dex saves
that I can see.

MATT: There you go.

MARISHA: Maybe wait for them to land.

SAM and LAURA: Are they landed?

SAM: Are they hovering?

MATT: They've landed on a tower right across from
the building where you guys are.

LAURA: How far away is that?

MATT: Let me show you.

(cheering)

TRAVIS: (shouting) Oh this is it! Oh no!

SAM and ASHLEY: (airhorn sounds)

LAURA: Oh my god.

MARISHA: So wait, is it Vorugal? Is it Thordak?

LIAM: No it's his mount.

MARISHA: It's your old mount?

JOE: I rode in on a white dragon named Obakala.

(groaning)

TALIESIN: (shouting) What? No!

ALL: Ooh.

LAURA: And they're on this?

SAM: How did you know we would be here?

LAURA: How did he know we would be here?

MATT: I had a few possibilities.

LAURA: Oh, it's okay, Briarwoods down.

MARISHA: Bony dragon!

ASHLEY: They're dead! We did it!

MATT: If that was the way it went you guys would
have been dead a long time ago.

MARISHA: Wait, did you put a cool little acrylic
thing on there to make them mountable?

MATT: I did.

MARISHA: That's pretty dope.

MATT: Currently riding your gloomstalker.

JOE: I'm on top of my dude?

MATT: Yep.

JOE: Thank you John Paul and everyone at Gale
Force Nine for my sweet-ass mini that just arrived

from the UK today!

LAURA: So we're in this building?

JOE: Well I was kind of on the bottom, but we'll
let it--

MATT: Yeah well I'm putting it there because that's
the range of the blast right there.

LAURA: Shit. Maybe he rolled really well on his
dex save.

MATT: All right, so you guys, let's go ahead and figure
out your placement here. You guys rushed into this

building here.

ASHLEY: There's a window.

LAURA: There's windows! Okay. Oh my god.

MATT: You guys rushed around and into this side,
so you guys were in the base floor here.

LAURA: Okay.

MATT: Where do you want to be?

LAURA: Can I run upstairs and look in that
window?

MATT: Sure. So I'll put you at the window there.

LAURA: Okay.

MATT: Who else is placed where?

MARISHA: I'll be downstairs.

SAM: There's no way to see out downstairs?

LIAM: There's no windows on this side.

SAM: There seems to be some windows on this side,
right?

MATT: There's a couple of small slits, but they're
facing out this way.

LIAM: And then would you say we could use the
attic windows? It's up to you.

MATT: That's more for flavor. There would be no
attic windows. It's been reinforced, so there's

been placed armor on the bottom, the only windows
that are available are the ones up top and even

then only have arrow slits.

ASHLEY: Because we can't see around there, I'm
going to use it as a reference photo.

MATT: Fair enough. Vax, are you up with your
sister?

LIAM: Yes I am.

LAURA: And Trinket is out.

MATT: All right, so you bamf Trinket out.

LAURA: I bamf Trinket out but he's down by Grog.

MATT: Okay, we'll put Grog-- we'll say that you
were probably down in this building being as quiet

as you can. Percival, Scanlan, Keyleth, Pike.

ASHLEY: I'm behind my boy Grog. My boy Blue!

TALIESIN: There's that other window.

MATT: Up on the second level.

TALIESIN: Yeah.

MATT: Okay. So we'll put you up there.

ASHLEY: Guys, do not worry! We have an extra plus
two to our hit points! It's going to be fine!

TRAVIS: Most amazing 2d10 roll ever.

MATT: All right, Scanlan.

SAM: I mean I'm in there somewhere.

MATT: I need a second Scanlan.

MARISHA: Is Keyleth up top? Keyleth's up top,
okay.

SAM: I think I would be near the window where I
could kind of see-- what's your name, Ar-Can?

JOE: Arkhan.

SAM: Arkhan?

JOE: Yeah.

MATT: We'll say for the purposes of this--

SAM: He can just move with me, it's fine.

MATT: This will be tiny Scanlan.

SAM: Sure.

MATT: Scanlan where are you?

SAM: Near the downstairs windows where I can
see--

LAURA: This is so intense!

MATT: Right here there's small slits, they're all
armored up.

SAM: Oh they're armored up, all right, so then I'm
upstairs.

MATT: All right, okay. We'll put that there. So
we'll say for the purposes of this you guys would be--

LAURA: I can't believe we're fighting the fucking
Briarwoods again!

TALIESIN: That's going to be fun.

JOE: That's not the Death Knight?

MATT: No.

JOE: It's her dude?

MATT: Sure. So.

TALIESIN: Yeah, that's Lord Briarwood.

MATT: Now that we're set, thank you for your
patience. So what did you roll, you and your

gloomstalker?

JOE: Well, me get not-- him not-- it not so good.
I had a 27. Gloomstalker 11. I'm trying to be--

give the proper gender-specific...

SAM: They.

JOE: They?

SAM: They.

JOE: Rolled an 11. Well, actually no. Wait, hold
on. They would benefit from my Aura of

Protection.

MATT: That's true.

JOE: So they would have a 15, I would have a 27.

MATT: That's with their plus six? The gloomstalker
gets a plus six dexterity saving throw.

JOE: Oh, plus six! I'm looking at the dex modifier
which is plus three.

MATT: Right. Says under saving throws, dex plus
six. Wait, does it? No, it's dex plus eight.

Sorry.

LAURA: Oh shit.

TRAVIS: Take it.

JOE: So then, it-- they had a 20. I had a 27.

MATT: All right. You both succeeded on the save so
you take half damage which is only 26 points of

necrotic damage.

TALIESIN: That's solid.

MATT: Sorry, piercing damage, not necrotic. So as
the bone shards go slamming into each of you, that

completes the dragon's turn. Now everybody please
roll initiative.

(groans)

TRAVIS: Okay. Come on, come get some!

LAURA: Oh god, oh god, oh god.

JOE: You said 60, Matt?

MATT: 26.

JOE: Yeah, I got that right for there. 26.

MARISHA: Don't fuck me, Gil!

JOE: Do I roll for the thing?

MATT: Yes, you would.

JOE: Separately of me.

MATT: Separately. I'll say for the ease of it
let's make it on your turn. There's a lot going on

here. All righty.

LAURA: In-game hour, not this game hour.

MARISHA: Right. No.

MATT: 25 to 20.

TRAVIS: Thanks to Kas, 27.

LAURA: Oh shit. 24 for me.

MATT: Right. 25 to 20? I just said that, right?

LAURA: 24.

MATT: Yeah. 20 to 15?

TALIESIN: 18.

JOE: 17.

MATT: Nice.

JOE: For me and they.

TRAVIS: 18, 17?

MATT: 18, 17?

JOE: Yes, yep.

MARISHA: Do you always do this or is this new for
you?

TRAVIS: I always do this.

ASHLEY: 15 for Pike.

MATT: Nice.

JOE: Is there a cricket in the studio or is that
part of the sound effect?

MATT: No, that's in the studio.

TRAVIS: It's just not that intense of a fight.

MATT: 15 to ten.

SAM: Ten.

MARISHA: Yeah, you hear it?

TRAVIS: Vax, what were you again?

LAURA: 24.

MATT: All right.

TRAVIS: Vax.

LAURA: You were looking me in the eye when you
said it.

TALIESIN: Cricket's initiative is sadly 30.

MATT: Keyleth, what did you get?

MARISHA: Six.

SAM: So did Scanlan Two.

LIAM: Hateful eight.

JOE: So you roll separate initiatives for you and
Scanlan 2?

SAM: No, this is new for me. This is new.

MATT: So is that everybody? I believe that's
everybody.

SAM: Matt, just manage the ten people and three
creatures on the field right now and you'll be fine.

MATT: I know. Be good. All right. First up first,
Grog, it's you.

TRAVIS: It's me. Already raging.

MATT: Yep, you're already raging.

TRAVIS: Let's see, there's a window, right? Can I
run upstairs?

MATT: You are now up with these assholes. Right
there.

TRAVIS: And I jump out the motherfucking window.

MATT: That you can. (heavy impact)

TRAVIS: Is that my full 50?

MATT: I'd put that at about 35, I'd say. You've
got 15 feet still.

TRAVIS: Awesome. So I'm going to double dash with
the spider boots that Percy gave me and I'm going

to run up the tower and just go straight, yeah.

MATT: Well, one dash.

TRAVIS: One dash.

MATT: So you get to the top of the tower and you
are now base to base with the dragon.

LAURA: Did you just fucking go father than 60 feet
away from me?

TALIESIN: No. Technically radius-wise--

MATT: Radius-wise he's close to you still.

TRAVIS: Yeah, why you making me feel dumb?

LAURA: Just remember that because it's a thing
during battle. They could, but we don't know. We

could kill them before he knows.

JOE: So that means if I get up next to this thing,
I would be in range of this 60 feet?

LAURA: You are within 60 feet right now.

SAM: Just do what you do. It's Vex's job to keep
us in radius.

JOE: What bonus do I have?

LAURA: That doesn't give you a bonus, it just
keeps Vecna from seeing you.

TRAVIS: Am I within melee of that skeleton dragon?
The bone dragon?

MATT: You are within melee of the dragon.

TRAVIS: Perfect. That's my turn.

LAURA: The only way we're going to get the drop on
him is if he doesn't actually know we're here.

SAM: He's going to know we're here. They're going
to tell him.

LAURA: We're going to kill them.

TRAVIS: With my bonus action can I make it a
frenzied rage?

MATT: You may. That's your turn, Grog. Vax, you're
up.

LIAM: I got an eight. I'm way at the bottom.

LAURA: I had a 24.

MATT: All right, so Vex?

LAURA: Can I lean out the window and attack?

MATT: You may.

LAURA: Okay, I lean out the window, and can I see
Delilah? Can I shoot at her?

MATT: Sure.

LAURA: With my sharpshooter, she doesn't get any
additional cover or anything. Okay, so I'm going

to sharpshooter Delilah with one of my needle
arrows that I've been hanging onto for a gajillion

years. So that is a 25 to hit.

MATT: 25 to hit? Yeah, even with Shield, she
couldn't stop that. That hits.

LAURA: Yes! Okay. Good.

SAM: Is she aiming for the dragon?

TALIESIN: No, Delilah.

SAM: Big D.

LAURA: Is that sneak attack because she didn't
know I was there, technically? Oh, Grog's standing

right there!

MATT: Grog's in melee with the dragon. I'll say
because she was not aware of you, they were only

aware of him, it's sneak attack. It's not a crit;
it's not a surprise attack, but you get sneak

attack.

LAURA: (counting) 31.

MATT: 31. All right, 31 points of damage.

LAURA: Oh, no, 41 because I was sharpshootering.

MATT: Okay.

LAURA: And then that one definitely doesn't hit.

ASHLEY: But it wasn't in the thing.

LAURA: I know, but it still was a roll.

MATT: What is it?

LAURA: It's 17.

MATT: 17? Nope, that misses. As you lean through
the window, you release the first arrow, and as

Delilah's up there, both clutching the necklace
and has her hand out with this wand, you hit her

hand with the arrow. (snarls) Looks over and looks
down at the window, right towards you, and there's

a moment of recognition as she sees you. As you
fire the second arrow, she dodges it and goes,

"I remember you."

LAURA: (scared noises) I'm going to use my bonus
action to hide.

MATT: Okay, so you duck off to the side of the
window.

LAURA: Not that it matters, but I'm going to roll
for stealth. That did nothing. 21? Nope, 31,

because I still haven't cast Hunter's Mark.

MATT: Okay. Good to know. All right, that ends
your turn. With that, it is now Delilah's turn.

She rolled a 19 for initiative.

LAURA: Okay, so it's Grog, Vex, Delilah.

TRAVIS: I don't know where Vax is. I forgot his
number.

LAURA: He's eight. Percy what?

TRAVIS: Percy, Arkhan, Pike.

JOE: It's Arkhan.

TRAVIS: I get all names wrong.

MATT: All right, she is going to point her finger
down at the wall where all of you guys are, and a

thin green ray streaks out from her finger.

LAURA: She's disintegrating the wall?

MATT: Seems to be.

JOE: I don't like the phone.

TRAVIS: I know. When there are too many dice to
roll, the phone comes out.

LAURA: Oh no.

MATT: I'm just confirming.

TRAVIS: The deliverance of the death? The method
chosen?

MATT: The size of the space that it can
disintegrate. There we go.

TRAVIS: We've got a dragonborn paladin. We're
fine.

LIAM: Could you ring up Tiamat and have her help
with this dragon thing?

MATT: This entire wall right here.

LAURA: That's true; you could turn the whole
thing.

MATT: This entire wall is disintegrated in place
and now reveals entirely Vex and Vax.

LAURA: I'm like--

MATT: As she pulls her finger back and the wall
turns to dust around you, you hear her say, "I'm

"sorry, honey, but no."

LAURA: Oh, hello there. I didn't see you.

ASHLEY and MARISHA: Oh, hello!

MATT: It is now the dragon's turn. Let's see if it
gets its breath attack. It does regenerate. The

dragon (wingbeats). You get an attack of
opportunity.

TRAVIS: I'll make it reckless.

MATT: I should have put tape on the bottom of
them. That's my fault.

SAM: We have tape. We could get tape.

MARISHA: Is there gaff tape in the house?

LAURA: Man, I really wish we had some tape right
now!

MARISHA: I know there's a row of it back there.

JOE: Dear Tiamat: Send tape.

LAURA: Did you get the attack?

JOE: Dear Tiamat: It's Arkhan. We need Scotch
tape.

TRAVIS: I believe it's Arkhan.

MATT: As the dragon (wingbeats), you get an attack
of opportunity on the dragon.

TRAVIS: It's a 34.

MATT: 34? That hits!

MARISHA: Yeah, get that roll of gaffer tape.

MATT: Thank you kindly, Mr. Brian Foster.

MARISHA: (mispronouncing) Brian Foster.

BRIAN: It's a janitor's keyring of tape.

LAURA: Use the gaff tape. It's the best.

JOE: This thing is on the ground now?

MATT: It is hovering right above the ground. It's
trying to get down into the space of the wall

that's currently exposed. Please pass the tape
over here? Okay. How much damage is that, Grog?

TRAVIS: This dragon would be considered undead,
yes?

MATT: Yes.

TRAVIS: So with the sword's 2d10 slashing damage
to undead, that's 32 points of damage.

MATT: 32 points of damage to the dragon. Nice. So
as it swoops up, the dragon takes one arc with the

blade, and as it streaks across, it slams into
part of its foot, and you watch as the bone

splinters upon impact with the Sword of Kas. As
the dragon lands, it brings its head down into the

gap where the opening is and arches forward. As it
does, it fills the entirety of the space. It

inhales a second time. You watch as all the bits
of bone spiral up into it. It regenerated for the

second time.

SAM: Is this an attack roll that it's about to
make?

MATT: No, it's a saving throw on you guys' part.
As it releases this torrent of bone shards and

rock and whatever it can pull up into its chest
and releases it, I need everybody in that room:

both Scanlans, Keyleth, Percival--

TALIESIN: Do I not have cover?

MATT: Cover's not going to help you on this,
unfortunately. It fills the whole space.

JOE: Should've rode in on a horse.

MARISHA: What are we making? Dex saves?

MATT: Dexterity saving throws, guys.

MARISHA: This doesn't give us spell resist,
right?

SAM: Scanlan Two is going to use Cutting Words to
reduce the damage.

MATT: Okay.

MARISHA: That's all right. That's good.

SAM: Dex?

MATT: All right.

SAM: Scanlan One: 18. Scanlan Two: 25.

MATT: Both succeed. 18, barely.

TALIESIN: 18.

MATT: Succeeds.

MARISHA: 17.

MATT: Barely missed it.

LIAM: 26. Evasion means zero.

LAURA: 31.

MATT: 31 succeeds. All righty. The only person to
take full damage on this is Keyleth, right? Sorry.

Double-checking on the bard ability Cutting
Words.

SAM: Can reduce damage by d12.

MATT: Roll a d12.

LAURA: On all of us?

SAM: Five. Five less.

LAURA: That's good.

MATT: That is 49 points of piercing damage to you,
Keyleth.

MARISHA: 49!

MATT: The rest of you take 24.

LAURA: That's minus the five?

MATT: Yes.

MARISHA: Minus 49? I'm at 94.

MATT: It fills the space there, and you feel every
ounce of exposed skin and flesh has been hit with

a thousand needles. That ends its turn. Percival,
you're up.

TALIESIN: So I can gather my wits, there's an
angry Delilah with a wand, clutching a weird thing

around her neck. There's a Sylas with what I
assume would be a brand new sword.

MATT: Probably.

TALIESIN: And they're sitting about how many feet
up on a dragon right now?

MATT: I'd say about 15 feet.

TALIESIN: Let's have a little fun.

ASHLEY: Let's have a little fun.

TALIESIN: All right. Oh, good, and I have an
escape route. That'll do really nicely. This is

going to be fun. I'm going to Bugs Bunny this
lady. First thing I'm going to do is I'm going to

take a shot--

MARISHA: Don't look down.

TALIESIN: Why?

MARISHA: Never mind.

TALIESIN: Oh, no. That was good. It took me a
second. I'm going to take a shot with Animus. Boy,

I'm nervous. I'm going to burn a point of grit,
and I'm going to make her drop her wand.

TRAVIS: You've got this. Focus in. You got it.

MATT: Roll for the attack.

TRAVIS: Walk in the park.

TALIESIN: That's a 31 to hit.

MATT: That'll hit.

TALIESIN: Let's make her drop stuff. It's a
strength saving throw.

MATT: Natural five. So as she's holding the wand
out with the hand, (gunshot, grunts). She glances

back, and as the smoking gun is there, she goes,
"I certainly remember you."

TALIESIN: I missed you, too, darling. I still do
damage on that one, I believe.

MATT: Her hand is now covered in blood, and you
can see one of the fingers looks heavily damaged.

LIAM: Grog does not count in melee of the
dracolich, right? It's just toys.

MATT: Grog is not in melee.

TALIESIN: That's nine points of damage, plus five
points of psychic, so 14.

MATT: Okay. 14 points. Got it.

TALIESIN: For my next trick, I'm going to burn
another point of grit. Let's push Sylas ten feet.

Another 31 to hit.

MATT: That hits.

TALIESIN: So let's take a little damage and do
a little psychic. I do not like this die, I'm

getting rid of it. It's only nine points of damage
plus two points of psychic.

MATT: So 11 to Sylas.

TALIESIN: So now Sylas has to move ten feet back.

MATT: No save right?

TALIESIN: No save.

MATT: He gets blasted off the back of the dragon.

ALL: Yes!

TALIESIN: (Woody Woodpecker laugh)

TRAVIS: I thought it was Bugs Bunny, but you did
Woody Woodpecker.

TALIESIN: Woody Woodpecker certainly has more
shade.

JOE: Is this creature under control to the point
where someone takes damage and has to make a

control save?

TALIESIN: We don't know.

MARISHA: I mean if it used to be yours--

JOE: It was mine.

MARISHA: I don't know.

JOE: But it's not anymore.

LAURA: Now it's dead.

ASHLEY: Maybe you can try to get through to it.

MATT: So he gets blown off and lands prone on the
ground.

TALIESIN: For my next one, let's push Delilah ten
feet for my final trick. That's a 28 to hit.

MATT: Shit, that hits.

TALIESIN: Sorry, man. It's my best trick and I
burned a lot of it. 15 points of damage plus four

points of psychic plus ten feet. Take some fall
damage.

MATT: Put her behind the dragon. Actually both
should be behind the dragon.

LAURA: Did they take damage from falling?

MATT: They did. They both took 2d6 each, five
points of bludgeoning damage each.

TALIESIN: So for the rest of it I'm going to use a
bonus action to run a heal. I'm going to give

myself 19 points back. I'm going to run
downstairs. I'm heading towards that back door.

MATT: That ends your turn, Percival. Arkhan,
you're up.

JOE: I would like to rage.

TRAVIS: Did you rage?

JOE: Yes!

(cheering)

LIAM: Sorry audio team.

SAM: The testosterone in his group just went from
a half to one.

MATT: Did you say you went into a frenzied rage
earlier?

TRAVIS: I did.

MATT: Okay.

JOE: Now, question. If I fly past the dragon to
Delilah do I give the dragon an attack of

opportunity?

MATT: Yes, you would.

JOE: I have to go through this thing. I'm going to
fly the gloomstalker right up to this thing.

Gloomstalker pulls into range and it
makes two attacks on the undead Obakala.

MATT: Go for it.

JOE: Oh, terrible. Actually terrible. That's
terrible. So that's going to be a 13 and natural one.

MATT: Both miss, unfortunately. Its claws streak
out in front of it and unfortunately scrape

against the bone to no effect. But you have your
turn.

JOE: Now it's me.

LAURA: That's an awesome-- Is that your Wyrmwood
box?

JOE: This is mine, yes. They do those specials.
Those one of a kinds that you can buy.

LAURA: Oh, oh well.

(laughter)

TALIESIN: Next campaign.

ASHLEY: I have an idea.

JOE: So I get advantage on my attacks because
I'm raging. This is the first time I've ever raged.

MATT: If you're going reckless attacks you can.

JOE: Reckless frenzied rage.

MATT: Then yes you can.

JOE: Yes. Okay, great.

MATT: You're going frenzied rage as opposed to
regular rage?

JOE: Frenzied does-- Yes.

TRAVIS: You have to hold it.

JOE: Hold? Oh because I'm not.

MATT: He used his bonus action to rage.

JOE: I used the bonus to rage in the first place.

MATT: Right.

JOE: Great! That first one is going to be a 33 to
hit.

MATT: That hits.

ASHLEY: Yes!

JOE: And this thing is undead?

MATT: Correct.

LAURA: Yas, Queen Tiamat!

JOE: I'm going to pump a 3rd-level Divine Smite
into it. Which is-- bear with me, now.

TRAVIS: We don't do math fast ever.

JOE: 2d8 for the axe. 2d8 for 1st-level
Divine Smite. Three more for--

MATT: 2nd, 3rd-level and undead. Correct.

ASHLEY: All of it!

TRAVIS: Dump it, dude.

LIAM: Unload.

JOE: So that's seven.

SAM: Math!

(laughter)

JOE: It's going to be 49.

MATT: 49 points of damage on the first hit. So as
you rush up and the Gloomstalker is scratching

towards it, you rush with a giant arc. You watch
as Fane-Eater's blade springs forth these darkened

spray of colors, red, green, black. Every
chromatic dragon's power thrust into the blade as

you slam it into the undead dragon. Watching bones
splinter and break from the blast of dark energy.

JOE: Love it. Second attack.

MATT: Go for it.

JOE: That's a good one too. That's going to be 29.
Same thing, 3rd-level Divine Smite, 7d8.

(counting) 47.

LAURA: Kill that dragon.

MATT: As you pull the axe back you arc a secondary
time. This time with the sound of a union of four

different dragon cries, the fifth one being your
own. As you slam the axe a second time, hitting

the edge of its clavicle, it carves through and
breaks. You can see part of the bones shatter and

reform but still broken and not in the same way.
It's a serious round.

JOE: Just a hint, a tiny hint, of remorse for
having to kill this thing that I helped raise.

ALL: Aw.

LAURA: That'd be like if I had to fight undead
Trinket.

TRAVIS: Legendary action incoming.

MATT: Sylas Briarwood is going to move his speed.
Would you hand me Sylas, please?

TALIESIN: He's prone.

MATT: He's prone, so has half it. He moves
through. He gets partway through the dragon,

we'll say. So he's about there. That ends your
turn?

MARISHA: Sylas is up and moving?

TALIESIN: Sylas is up and moving.

MATT: End of your turn?

JOE: That's all I got.

MATT: All right. Sylas' turn. Sylas, seeing you
come up and destroy the dragon, grins, climbs up

the side of the dragon, jumps onto its thigh and
jumps in the air towards you, holding a giant

blackened greataxe in his hand. (groans) He's
going to go ahead and make a strike at you. Oh, you

know what? No. He's not going to. Sylas instead,
axe in one hand, grabs the side of the skeletal

ribcage, hanging off, looks up at you. "You seem
rather strong." And looks you dead in the eyes. I

need you to make a wisdom saving throw.

LAURA: No! Oh my god no! Do not get turned!

TRAVIS: Does he have advantage on wisdom
something?

LAURA: No, he doesn't because he didn't have the
feast.

SAM: Can I Cutting Words?

MATT: You already used your reaction, buddy.

SAM: One of us has.

MATT: It's true.

SAM: Scanlan Prime steps up.

MATT: Cutting Words only-- You can't give a bonus
to somebody's saving throw.

SAM: Okay, then never mind.

MATT: You can reduce an enemy's saving throw.

SAM: Got it.

MATT: Through Mythcarver.

JOE: Straight up roll. Here we go. Natural 20!

(screaming)

MATT: Oh shit.

TRAVIS: In the clutch.

JOE: I stare him right in the eyes. What would
have happened?

MATT: He would've charmed you and you would've had
to start fighting them.

TRAVIS and MARISHA: No!

MATT: As he stares at you, you feel this cold
presence consume the back of your mind. And you

feel drawn to him. It's this force of charisma and
drive, and as you begin to lean forward towards it

you feel this (thump) in your holy symbol and as
you glance you break the gaze for a second and

look down. And you see the multi-colored fury of
Tiamat reach up and block and obscure the vision

from him. And as the flames burn off you look up
and the presence is gone. And he looks at you with

a frustrated glance.

JOE: Yes! Rage!

MATT: He's going to use the rest of his movement
to dart back around the side of the tower.

TALIESIN: How much movement does he have left?

MATT: He used a legendary action to get up and get
his movement, then on his turn he got his

movement.

TALIESIN: All right. No, that's a good 
use of a legendary action.

MATT: That brings us to Pike.

ASHLEY: Can I get upstairs? Stay hidden somewhere's
enough?

MATT: Sure. You get to about where the twins are.

ASHLEY: I'm going to cast Beacon of Hope. Choose
everyone that I see.

MATT: Everyone within 30 feet that you can see gets
affected. That you can see, does it say?

ASHLEY: Choose any number of creatures within
range.

MATT: Which is 30 feet?

ASHLEY: Yes.

MATT: You'd be able to see Percival down there.

ASHLEY: I can see Grog.

MATT: Grog is farther than 30 feet.

LAURA: Can you see Arkhan?

MATT: Yeah.

LAURA: Okay, good.

MATT: Arkhan's in direct vision.

LAURA: What does this do, again?

ASHLEY: You have advantage on wisdom saving throws
and death saving throws. I'm also, as a bonus

action, going to cast Sanctuary on Vex.

MATT: Sanctuary is a bonus action?

ASHLEY: It's a bonus action.

LAURA: What does that do? Okay, okay.

MATT: Sanctuary means that if something tries to
attack you it has to make a wisdom saving throw to

see if it does so or not.

TRAVIS: It's what Earthbreaker did.

MATT: End your turn, Pike?

ASHLEY: Am I able to get hidden around the wall?

MATT: Your movement would've gotten you just up to the
stairs at that point because you had to climb up

it. At the end of that turn, swooping down, you
hear two impacts on the roof above you. You hear

the growling, tearing sound as the long dry rotten
wooden rooftops that are above you guy get pulled

open by two gloomstalkers that've joined the fray.

TRAVIS: Toothless?

TALIESIN: Do they count as undead?

MATT: They do not count as undead.

ASHLEY: Is the roof off of it?

MATT: Now the roof is open. Its damaged bits and
parts of it are fallen inward. You guys can move

around but they have visual on you, but that's all
they can do this turn. It took their full movement

and action to break in. That's going to end their
turn. Scanlan, you're up. Scanlan One.

SAM: Scanlan One turns to Scanlan Two and sings a
Song of Healing.

MATT: Scanlan Two as in the--

TRAVIS: Which one are you? Prime or Two?

SAM: I'm Prime right now.

MATT: A simulacrum can not be healed, except by--

SAM: Ever?

MATT: They can be repaired.

SAM: But not healed with a healing thing.

MATT: Correct.

SAM: Or a potion.

MATT: Correct.

LAURA: How do they get repaired? Is it like a Doty
situation?

MATT: Kind of.

ASHLEY: Once they're gone they're gone?

MATT: Yep.

SAM: Then never mind that.

MATT: You would know this, having known the spell
and the significance of its creation. If it is

damaged you can repair it in an alchemical
laboratory using rare herbs and minerals worth a

hundred gold per hit point.

SAM: Oh boy.

TALIESIN: Can Scanlan Two heal himself?

MATT: No, he can heal other things.

LAURA: How damaged is Scanlan Two already?

SAM: A little.

ASHLEY: Wait, from what?

MATT: The skeleton dragon breath.

SAM: All right. It's all good, guys. We're going to
be fine! Then Scanlan One will heal himself with a

bonus action Healing Word.

MATT: Okay.

SAM: And then he'll grab Scanlan Two and Dimension
Door behind the dragon.

MATT: Oh shit.

LAURA: What are you doing?

MATT: Both of these guys appear behind the dragon.
Right behind it?

SAM: On the ground.

LAURA: Do you know Sylas and Delilah are right
there?

LIAM: By Delilah or here?

SAM: Back there.

LAURA: Sylas is right here. Right next to Sylas?

SAM: Yeah.

LAURA: You want both of you to be right behind
Sylas?

MATT: I'm allowing you guys to move things. Thank
you.

LAURA: Do you want melee range, or do you want
back ten feet?

SAM: Back ten feet. That would be great.

MATT: All right, so that's your action and bonus
action.

TALIESIN: You can move.

SAM: Wait, this was Scanlan One.

MATT: Scanlan Two hasn't gone yet. Scanlan Two is
at the very end, with Keyleth.

SAM: Scanlan One will walk around the side of the
thing.

MATT: There you go. All right. Vax, you're up.

LIAM: I really am? Oh my. Okay.

MATT: Actually, at the end of the turn, Sylas is
going to use another legendary action. He got them

back, actually, because he used it before last
turn. So he uses his first legendary action to

head up.

LAURA: He can climb up walls?

MATT: He runs up the side. (impacts) He glances
down, looking towards where you are. All right,

that's going to bring us to Vax's turn.

LIAM: Yeah, okay, so if I get to the very edge
there, am I in range of Delilah on the ground

with Sharpshooter? Cover doesn't do much, except
full cover.

MATT: Yeah, she would have cover in this
circumstance, but you avoid it with Sharpshooter,

so you can.

LIAM: And am I within 60 feet over there, about?

MATT: Yes.

LIAM: Okay, I'm going to throw Whisper at her, and
she's down, so I have advantage. That is a 27 to hit.

MATT: 27 to hit hits.

LIAM: And I'm going to bamf there.

MATT: She's prone, so yeah. You have disadvantage
on the attack against her.

LIAM: What, because she's prone?

MATT: It's a ranged attack. You don't have
advantage against her because there's nothing

giving you advantage.

LIAM: Her being prone doesn't give me advantage?

MATT: No, her being prone, against ranged attacks,
it's with disadvantage. Roll a second time.

LIAM: That's much worse.

MARISHA: But it cancels out.

LAURA: Because of Sharpshooter.

MATT: Sharpshooter means he ignores cover. Doesn't
give him advantage on the attack roll.

MARISHA: That sucks.

MATT: Hold on, what was that one?

LIAM: 18.

MATT: 18 technically would hit. She's going to use
Shield as a reaction to add plus five to her AC.

She's on her back and sees the dagger and goes
(ping) and deflects it off.

LIAM: All right, second
attack is a natural 20.

TRAVIS: Really?

LIAM: Yeah. With Whisper, she has to make a saving
throw with a DC of 18 or become frightened of me

for a minute, on a crit.

MATT: What was the DC on that one?

LIAM: 18.

MATT: 18? She has a plus ten wisdom save, so
that's going to put her at a 20.

LIAM: All right. (counting)

LAURA: That's a great way to roll.

LIAM: 72.

MATT: 72?

LIAM: Yeah, it's a crit. Double the dice.

MATT: Right, but it's not sneak attack, though.

LIAM: Oh, sorry, so. 32. Thank you.

MATT: No worries.

TRAVIS: Wow, your reverse math was super fast just
then. That would have taken me five minutes.

MATT: All right.

LIAM: And I'm going to bamf there on it.

MATT: Okay.

LAURA: It's fine.

LIAM: Don't worry. And with my bonus action, I'm
going to throw my third dagger up at the wall. Can

I throw Whisper again? Is it like quick draw, or
does it have to change daggers?

MATT: Technically, I'd consider it to change
dagger, generally, because you're throwing them so fast.

LIAM: All right, then instead I'm going to
disengage, and I'm going to dart back between the

Scanlans.

MARISHA: Between the Scanlans.

MATT: All right, that ends your turn, Vax?

TRAVIS: Keyleth.

MATT: At the end of your turn, Sylas is going to
use his second legendary action.

LIAM: Wait, she used a reaction to knock the
dagger away.

MATT: Sylas.

LIAM: She used Shield, which is a reaction, so she
can't hit me with an attack of opportunity. Never mind.

MATT: That's not what this is. Sylas is using a
legendary action. This has nothing to do with

Delilah.

LAURA: You're talking about your disengage. Don't
worry about it.

MATT: Sylas is going to use his second legendary
action at the end of your turn to take a swing at

Grog with his Greataxe of the Eclipse.

LAURA: Greataxe of the Eclipse?

MARISHA: Wait, Delilah or Sylas?

LAURA: Sylas.

MARISHA: Okay.

MATT: That is a 21.

TRAVIS: That hits.

MATT: That is 14 points of damage, reduced to
seven, and I need you to make a wisdom saving

throw, please.

TALIESIN: With advantage.

TRAVIS: With advantage. Oh, wait. That's a d10.
Natural 20.

(relieved noises)

TRAVIS: First one was a three.

MATT: As the blade sinks across you, you resist
the impact, but you feel this cold sensation

across the wound that begins to spill across your
body. You angrily, in your rage, flex against it

and manage to withstand and shrug off the effect.
That ends that. Next up is Keyleth and Scanlan Two.

SAM: Hey.

MARISHA: Hey, Scanlan Two. Are you just as
charismatic as Scanlan One?

SAM: I've got all the words to make the girls like
me.

MARISHA: Okay, I don't care. Okay, Keyleth is
going to try to do a one-two punch here. She's

going to move forward and then does she see
Delilah?

MATT: Make a perception check. I'd say probably,
actually. You watched her get knocked back; you're fine.

MARISHA: Okay, I'm going to reach out and do an
Entangle spell right under her.

MATT: Okay.

MARISHA: Unless she can make a strength save
versus my spell shit.

MATT: That is a four plus one. No.

MARISHA: Fail, so she is restrained, and then I'm
going to run, and I'm going to use my Mantle of

the Tempest to jump, and then trying to be dope,
here, in mid-air, I'm going to change into an

earth elemental and try and grab onto the bone
dragon and see if I can snap his neck in the

process. Grapple the bone dragon's head.

MATT: Okay. Entangle is an action?

MARISHA: Yes, and then I'm running and jumping and
grabbing for the rest of my movement.

JOE: Do we need some more tape?

MATT: Actually, I can finally use the layer over
here.

LAURA: Do you want me to get the tape?

MATT: All right, you leap over. That's the rest of your
turn. After entangling her, you run, leap, and as

the wind from the mantle picks up, you watch this
gust of wind lift her. Make an athletics check.

LAURA: To try to land on the dragon?

MARISHA: A straight athletics? Yeah. (whimpers)
11.

MATT: Okay. Not too bad. That's enough. It was
maybe a 15-foot jump at this point, and it's

tripled because of your mantle, so you leap and
land, transforming into the elemental and

grappling onto its back. All right. That ends your
turn, Keyleth. Scanlan Two?

SAM: She's grappled now?

MATT: She is, yes.

MARISHA: Yeah. Fuck her shit up!

TALIESIN: She's prone and grappled.

MARISHA: Prone and grappled, and not for a very
long time.

SAM: So if we hit her, it automatically hits,
right?

MATT: Physically. You get advantage on attacks
against her.

SAM: Is Bigby's Hand a magic attack or a physical
attack? It's a melee spell attack.

MATT: It's a melee spell, so you get advantage on
the attack roll, yeah.

SAM: Okay, then I'll change my plans and I'll do
that. Scanlan Two will cast Bigby's Hand at

level-6 and pound her really hard. Shit.

JOE: Is that a Philip Seymour Hoffman Happiness
reference?

(laughter)

SAM: Is that 6d8? Or 8d8? Bigby's Hand; I always
forget.

MATT: It's 5th-level, and you've cast it at 6th,
correct? So it's an additional 2d8 to the punch.

SAM: And it starts at 4d8? Oh, so it's only 6d8.

JOE: Would you like to borrow some d8s?

SAM: Yes. You know what? I'm going to do it at
level-7, then.

MATT: You already said 6th.

SAM: Okay. That's fine. All right, so a bunch of
d8s.

MATT: You have to roll to hit first, so d20 with
advantage.

SAM: 17 plus 11.

MATT: Yeah, that hits, so roll your 6d8.

SAM: Yeah. One, two, three, four, five.

JOE: Or you can use the Smite dice.

SAM: I like these. 29.

MATT: All right.

SAM: 29, and then I guess, as his bonus action,
he'll inspire Vax, who's not even here.

MATT: Sing to the space where he was.

SAM: Scanlan Two only knows the songs of Scanlan,
so he will sing, weirdly hollowly: (singing) When

I get that feeling, I want Clarota healing.

(laughter)

SAM: He only knows the songs that he already
knows!

TRAVIS: I told you, it's the jam.

MATT: All right, so when he gets back, give him
the d12.

SAM: And then he moves. He ducks back behind
there. Yeah, just peeking out a little so he can

see where Bigby's Hand is.

MATT: Okay. At the end of your turn, Sylas is going
to use his last legendary action to move his speed

without provoking opportunity attacks. He leaps
off the side and lands right next to Delilah.

MARISHA: Does he get entangled? Because he did
just land in difficult terrain.

MATT: He's not entangled, I don't think, because
he wasn't there for the casting. Difficult terrain

means he moves across at half.

MARISHA: He's in difficult terrain.

MATT: Okay. Good to know.

MARISHA: I have rocky ground. That's all I have.

MATT: All righty, so entangled... okay, yeah. Got
it. Cool. That ends the legendary action. Grog,

you're up.

TRAVIS: Can I jump to the top of the bannister
here so I'm looking down at old tangled-up

Delilah. (sighs) May I leap off the tower and
straight onto Delilah's prone body?

MATT: Sure. Make an athletics check.

SAM: So romantic.

LAURA: Feet stomping her chest?

MATT: That's easy enough. Make an athletics check,
actually, in case something goes horribly bad. You

are raging, so you get advantage.

TRAVIS: 25.

MATT: Okay. Easy enough. At that height, you take
eight points of bludgeoning damage, reduced to

four, and (impact) you land, arcing over her, both
feet to each side of her, and you're standing,

looming over her body as she's wrapped up in
vines, going (grunting).

TRAVIS: I fucking hate this dead bitch. And I
raise the sword and start swinging down in these

huge arcs at her. The first two attacks at her.

MATT: Okay. As you pull the blade up, the voice
goes, "Yes. Her. She's part of the web. Her. Her!"

And you give into the fury. Go ahead and make your
attacks.

TRAVIS: Are they with advantage because she's
prone?

MATT: Correct. Well, she's restrained.

TRAVIS: So not reckless. Natural 20.

(cheering)

SAM: She's going to die.

LIAM: Butcher that motherfucker!

TRAVIS: Should I roll the second attack?

MATT: Roll the damage first. She's hurt, but she's
not terrible. Yet.

JOE: She's about to be terrible.

MATT: Yeah.

TRAVIS: (counting) 21 plus 14. Help me. 35?

LAURA: 35.

TRAVIS: 35.

MARISHA: 21 plus 14? Yeah.

TRAVIS: 35, okay. So that's those. Let me make
sure I'm doing this right. Oh, that's before the

modifier.

LAURA: 35 times two now?

TRAVIS: Just 35.

LIAM: Modifier goes on at the end.

ASHLEY: What is it?

TRAVIS: 51.

LAURA: What do you get for the crit on Kas? What
do you get for the crit? That's why I'm asking if

you double your dice.

TRAVIS: No, I mean my brutal critical. I roll the
damage die, an additional--

MATT: You roll the damage die, double that, add
the modifiers, and then the additional damage.

MARISHA: And you're raging right?

TRAVIS: Two times, yeah.

MARISHA: Plus your rage damage, don't forget to
double that.

TRAVIS: Two damage dies at this level.

MATT: We'll see--

JOE: This is that crazy new sword.

MATT: Three, at 17th level.

TRAVIS: Three?

MATT: Yeah, so 3d10 additional.

LAURA: Oh my god, so 51 plus 3d10.

MATT: Correct.

MARISHA: And is that doubled too?

LAURA: No.

MARISHA: Okay.

SAM: That would be crazy.

TRAVIS: 62. I rolled pretty low.

MATT: Okay, so as you bring the blade down, with
this horrible screaming hiss--

LAURA: That's one hit?

MATT: Yeah, 62 points of damage. The blade jams
into her chest, and as you twist it she screams,

and the blood from the wounds sprays out in the
middle of the air, freezes, and then slips into

the blade as it's sucking up the blood. She's
like (grunts) entangled, and she reaches up and

grabs the blade, and begins to start pulling it
out of the wound, she's (choking) as blood begins

splattering up around her mouth, but she's still
alive.

TRAVIS: Did you want it out? Here, let me help you
out (yells) and put it back in!

MATT: Roll again.

TRAVIS: That is a 32.

MATT: Okay, roll damage.

LAURA: I like it when the music stops, we're like
(hyperventilates).

TRAVIS: 24.

MATT: 24. You jam the blade in a second time, and
gash across and it carves open this part of her

chest, and you can see the blood spatter out. The
bones are exposed, and she's on the ground,

shaking. She's hanging on by a tether, and her
eyes are going wild, and she glances over, and her

hand goes out. And you can see Sylas, who's right
next to her, his eyes are wide and he's reaching

out to grasp for her hand.

LAURA: (gravelly) Chop her hand off!

MATT: Is that the end of your turn? Oh, you're
frenzied raging? Right.

TALIESIN: Oh no. Yeah!

MARISHA: Come on, come on Grog!

TRAVIS: I was going to do something to Sylas but
fuck it, we're going to hit her.

SAM: (whispered) Chop off her hand.

LAURA: Chop off her whole arm.

TRAVIS: 33 to hit.

MATT: That hits, roll damage.

LAURA: (singing) Please die Deliah, we want you
dead.

TALIESIN: Third time's the charm.

TRAVIS: 23.

MATT: 23 points of damage? Are you rolling extra
undead damage on this? On these attacks? Because

she's not undead.

TRAVIS: Nope, nope. 23 plus-- I wasn't even
adding-- I was so excited about the sword damage I

was forgetting my rage damage.

MATT: Right, but you rolled 3d10 there.

TRAVIS: I did, yeah. The d10 plus 2d10 slashing
damage to undead right?

MATT: She's not undead though.

TRAVIS: Oh, she's not?

MATT: No.

TRAVIS: Oh shit.

MATT: You've been adding that to all the attacks?
Okay, noted. Roll--

TRAVIS: I figured she was dead, then not dead--

MATT: Roll 4d10 for me right now. I'm going to
retract that from the damage she's taken.

TRAVIS: 22.

MATT: She's still wounded, but she's not hanging
on by that thread. Okay, so the damage you rolled

for that attack?

TRAVIS: 24. But I hadn't added my--

LAURA: So do your damage again because that--

MATT: Roll the d10 and add your modifiers.

TRAVIS: Okay fair enough. Shit, I'm so sorry.

MATT: It's okay.

LAURA: He wasn't doing his rage modifiers, so you
could add that then, potentially?

MARISHA: The difference.

TRAVIS: So that's 21.

SAM: With your rage?

TRAVIS: Yeah.

MATT: So as you hack in a third time with the
blade, making a smear of blood across the ground,

the entangled vines that hold her there are
soaked in crimson at this point. And she's

coughing and sputtering, you can see the open
wounds in her chest, and her hand reaching out

"Sylas." And he's going for her at that point.
That's the end of your turn. She's still alive.

TRAVIS: Yep.

MATT: Vex, you're up.

ASHLEY: Good job.

TRAVIS: I thought she was undead, just figured.

MATT: No, she's alive.

JOE: She's a clone.

TRAVIS: Oh, really?

MARISHA: Yeah, I was wondering about that.

TRAVIS: Sylas is undead.

MATT: Correct.

TRAVIS: The dragon's undead.

JOE: No, because I've faced her before.

TRAVIS: Are the gloomstalkers undead?

MATT: No.

TRAVIS: Not undead?

LAURA: I bet she's a fucking clone.

ASHLEY: What does that mean?

LAURA: She made a clone of herself.

MATT: That ends your turn. Vex.

LAURA: Okay, so if I attack her, it's at
disadvantage? Or with--

MATT: With a ranged attack? Yes, because she is--
well, she's restrained, which gives her advantage,

so technically, it would be just a regular attack
roll.

LAURA: Well then I'm going to attack her. She's
already restrained. Fuck it, I'm going to attack

her with a blazing bowstring.

MATT: Go for it.

MARISHA: Kill her, kill her.

LAURA: Yes. 17 plus 14, with sharpshooter.

MATT: Yeah, that hits.

LAURA: Minus five. Oh god, 15 plus two is 17, 25,
30, plus the blazing bowstring, 37. That's

everything, right?

TALIESIN: Did you do your plus ten for the
Sharpshooter?

LAURA: 47 for Sharpshooter!

TRAVIS: Hunter's Mark?

LAURA: 47, I didn't Hunter's Mark it.

MATT: 47 points of damage with the Sharpshooter.
How do you want to do this?

(cheering)

MARISHA: Get it girl! Get it girl!

MATT: She was reaching out for that Dimension
Door.

LAURA: Oh fuck!

MATT: You see her hand reaching out, and you see
her fingers tracing the incantation in the air as

Sylas' hand reaches outstretched for hers.

LAURA: I point my finger down at her as I'm about
to shoot the arrow. As it shoots, I keep pointing

at her like: How's it feel, bitch? How's it feel?

MATT: As she reaches out, her eyes are locked with
Sylas. She's not even paying attention to Grog at

this point, all she's focused on is escape. And
Grog as you look down at her and Sylas is looking

into her face reaching out, the arrow just
(impact) through the jaw and out the side of her

cheek there. (breath catches) and her eyes go
cold. The spell incantation fades and the hand

just twitches and falls to the ground still.

MARISHIA: That was so dope!

ASHLEY: Yes!

MATT: As that happens, Sylas, his hand still
reached out goes (yelling) "No!"

LAURA: Oh I feel so bad for him.

TRAVIS: No you don't.

LAURA: I do have another attack!

MATT: He turns around to look at you, "Vengeance,
I suppose, is mine this time."

LAURA: And I attack him.

MATT: This is a unique reversal of last time.

LAURA: With blazing bowstring.

MATT: Okay.

LAURA: Sharpshooter. So 28 minus five hits?

MATT: 28 minus five, yeah, that hits. That is the
end of Delilah Briarwood.

TRAVIS: Like done?

MATT: Clones take a while.

LAURA: 33 damage to him. Seven of which is fire
damage.

MATT: Gotcha. Is that the end of your turn?

TRAVIS: Were her hands her own hands?

MATT: They seemed to be.

LAURA: I'm going to run down the stairs to the
lower level. Yeah, I'm in there.

MATT: Okay. All right, first things first. As soon
as Delilah's body goes lifeless, Keyleth, you feel

this sudden shift beneath your feet, as the bone
structure that maintains the body of the skeletal

dragon collapses entirely.

(cheering)

LAURA: Two with one!

TALIESIN: I was going to feel really guilty about
killing that thing.

MATT: You suffer 11 points of bludgeoning damage.

MARISHA: That's fine.

MATT: Percy, you're up.

TALIESIN: I want to try and come around here if
possible.

MATT: With a speed of 30 you can do that, yeah.

TALIESIN: Just here.

SAM: Matt, don't forget those two guys.

MATT: They just got there last turn.

LAURA: Delilah's dead!

MATT: Percy, what are you doing?

TALIESIN: First thing I'm doing is I'm taking a
grit shot at Sylas with Animus. And I'm doing

a headshot just to make his life a little more
complicated.

LIAM: Do you get them at Reproductions, too?

TALIESIN: I do, I'm taking very nice head shots.
Actually, I go to Prints Charming.

MARISHIA: Do you really?

SAM: That is not a place.

TALIESIN: That's a real place. It's on Ventura.

MATT: Percy! Roll your attack!

TALIESIN: Sorry! The most LA moment in our game
ever! Just now!

LIAM: I don't know about that.

TALIESIN: Yeah, no, maybe not. Yep, that'll do,
that's a 26 to hit?

MATT: That'll hit!

TALIESIN: And he has to make a constitution saving
throw.

MATT: Okay, He's going to use legendary resistance
to succeed.

TALIESIN: That's fine.

TRAVIS: His first one?

MATT: His first one.

TALIESIN: He still takes 16 points of damage and
two points of psychic damage.

MATT: All righty, 18, got it.

TALIESIN: And I'm going to take another headshot,
because that's funny. And that's 31 to hit.

MATT: All right, go ahead and roll damage.

TALIESIN: That's 12 points of damage and one
psychic damage. And does he make his constitution

saving throw?

MATT: He does actually, what's the DC on it?

TALIESIN: The DC is 20.

MATT: He rolled 20 exactly.

TALIESIN: Fine. I'm going to take another
headshot. Burning my grit.

SAM: Pew pew!

TALIESIN: I should have gone for a Sharpshooter.
That's 34 to hit, Jesus Christ.

MATT: That hits.

TALIESIN: Another constitution saving throw.

MATT: That is a 20 again!

TALIESIN: God, motherfucker!

MATT: 16 plus four both times.

TALIESIN: That's 15 points of damage plus four
psychic. So 19 total.

MATT: As he's there, his arm out, and he's
seething with rage, his eyes burning bright red,

like the same shade as Grog's, which is
disconcerting. Each bullet hits him and he doesn't

react. (bullets hitting) He's just looking down at
her and back up at Vex and down at her. Is that

your turn?

TALIESIN: No, I don't like the way he's doing
that, I'm burning an action surge. I'm going to

use some Sharpshooter. I'm going to burn a bonus
and reload my gun. Let's just take three

Sharpshooter shots, see what happens.

MARISHIA: That one's cocked, I think.

MATT: No, they're there.

TALIESIN: I should not have rolled all three at
once.

MATT: Oh well.

TALIESIN: The way they landed, it would have been
the third one anyway. Two shots, that's 15 to hit? No.

MATT: 15 misses. He puts a hand up without even
watching and deflects the bullet from the air.

LAURA: He deflects the bullet?!

TALIESIN: 20 to hit.

MATT: 20 to hit? He's going to use his reaction to use
parry and the second bullet, with the other hand he

shoots it off to the side. Not even looking at you
just staring at Vex still.

LAURA: He's looking at me? Oh no.

TALIESIN: And the third shots jams at a two.

LAURA: No I ran away! He can't see me! I'm
downstairs.

MATT: Glaring at the space you were when you ran.

TRAVIS: Yeah, through all material.

TALIESIN: Actually I have a resistance now to
psychic damage, so I take 1d6 psychic damage for

my gun, not two, correct?

MATT: Okay, yes you do.

TALIESIN: I take my four points and I am happy for
them.

MATT: That ends your turn!

TALIESIN: That ends my turn.

MATT: Arkhan.

SAM: Come on, Arkhan.

JOE: I command the gloomstalker to shriek. I just
read this.

LAURA: What does it do when he shrieks?

JOE: Within 60 feet, the gloomstalker emits a
terrible, shattering shriek that impacts all

hostile creatures. Each must make a DC 16
constitution save or become stunned until the

end of their next turn.

MARISHA: Hell yeah.

JOE: And it's the two up there, right?

MATT: Technically they are, yeah. That's what they
were going to do next turn. So that's a two on the

one gloomstalker. That is a 14, they both fail.
Both of the other gloomstalkers, all of a sudden

(croaking) their heads begin writhing around. They
are stunned until their next turn. And Sylas is

going to use his second legendary resistance of
the day.

MARISHIA: We can burn him out. Burn him out.

JOE: And now I'm unimpeded, direct. All the
way to him.

MATT: Correct.

LAURA: Destroy him!

MATT: Fly this over to him.

TALIESIN: High-five Keyleth on the way in.

MATT: Cool! And?

JOE: Okay and I'm going to do reckless on this.

ASHLEY: Yeah you are.

TRAVIS: Atta boy!

LAURA: I like the magical flourish of the die.

JOE: It's like some David Copperfield.

MATT: Exactly.

MARISHIA: Just salt bae your dice.

JOE: Does 32 hit?

MATT: 32 does hit.

JOE: Okay great. Is this guy undead?

MATT: Yes he is. He is a vampire.

JOE: Out of curiosity, the bones of Delilah. She
deflated like a bag?

MATT: She's dead. The skeleton fell into piles of
bones.

SAM: She's okay.

MATT: She's not okay.

JOE: She's not a zombie.

MATT: She's a slashed-up human. Her whole torso is
a mess. She has an arrow through her jaw and cheek.

LAURA: Out her eyeball.

JOE: Great. Well, then I would like to do a
2nd-level Divine Smite, which is going to be 6d8.

TRAVIS: 6d8? Holy shit.

JOE: I rolled badly. That's a 28.

TRAVIS: (laughing) That's bad? Oh man.

MATT: 28 points. All right, so as you rush forward
with your axe, you swing down into Sylas, who gets

slammed in the side of the shoulder, and as the
spark of the Divine Smite energy slams into his

side, you can see him: he's starting to feel the
pinch, all of you surrounding him.

JOE: That's a cock.

MATT: Roll again. It's a dice, actually.

JOE: That's not great. That's 19.

MATT: 19 does not hit, unfortunately.

JOE: I would like to frenzy.

MATT: Okay, so you're rolling your third strike.

JOE: Frenzy, reckless.

MATT: Yeah.

JOE: That's going to be a 27.

MATT: 27 hits. Roll damage.

MARISHA: Kill him!

JOE: I'll go 2nd-level Divine Smite again.

TRAVIS: Come on, now!

JOE: My friend John bought me some smite dice.
Let's go. Oh man, that's not a lot. That's rough,

isn't it?

MARISHA: Goddamn it, John.

JOE: That's a 29, which was a terrible roll.

MATT: First attack slams into it and bursts.
Second one, you swing and Sylas' form turns to

shadow temporarily and dissipates around the blade
and returns. The third hit does strike true in the

back of the head. (yelps) He yelps out in pain as
the blast bursts upward. You can see the flesh

burning from the impact of the radiant damage.
That end your turn?

JOE: I believe it will do so, yes.

MATT: That brings us to Sylas' turn. Sylas does
not regenerate because the radiant damage kept it

at bay.

TRAVIS: I did not know that.

JOE: It's why I did divine.

MATT: Radiant damage prevented his regeneration.
Looking at his current circumstance, he's going to--

MARISHA: No!

MATT: You watch as he glances around and his body
(whoosh) into a bat.

SAM: Scanlan Two's going to cast Counterspell.

MATT: It's not a spell.

(groaning)

MATT: Scanlan Two goes to counter it, but there's
no spell to counter.

MARISHA: Vampire bullshit!

MATT: Turns into a bat (fluttering).

MARISHA: I have a reaction! Can Keyleth the ellie
try to grab it?

MATT: You don't get to grab, you get an attack of
opportunity.

MARISHA: Can I?

MATT: You get an attack of opportunity. You get
an attack of opportunity, and Grog gets an attack

of opportunity.

LAURA: And Bigby's Hand.

MATT: Bigby's Hand does not get reactions.

JOE: Does They get a attack of opportunity?

MATT: Yeah, one attack.

SAM: Against a bat.

TALIESIN: Which means if you hit him enough, he
drops back to human.

MATT: That's not how a vampire bat form works.
It's not a Polymorph. He has the same hit points

in the bat form as he does in his normal form.

TRAVIS: What if I made this a reckless tripping
attack?

LAURA: Does that work on a bat? Can you trip a
bat?

TRAVIS: I don't know. I don't know if it would
ground him for one second or not. I don't know.

That's why I'm asking the DM.

JOE: Who goes first out of all these attacks of
opportunity?

MATT: You go first.

JOE: Okay, then I would like to attempt to snatch
the bat with gloomstalker.

MARISHA: Yes! Come on, yes!

JOE: Has a snatch.

MATT: Okay.

MARISHA: Snatch that bat!

ASHLEY: Get that snatch.

MATT: Roll an attack.

JOE: That's a 24.

MATT: 24 hits.

JOE: Snatched!

SAM: What does that mean, snatched?

JOE: The target is grappled. The target is
considered restrained. I can also fly with my

grappled target at half of my speed. It's 2d6 plus
six piercing damage. Right?

SAM: He doesn't like this.

MATT: Because the snatch is a special attack,
essentially, as a reaction, because a reaction

gives you a melee attack; it's not an actual
attack towards him-- let me double-check here for

you guys real fast.

JOE: Was that me trying to sneak one by?

SAM: No. No, it doesn't say that it's special. Why
don't you plan a backup, just in case?

MATT: Just double checking here. Okay.

LIAM: How are you doing there, M?

MARISHA: I'm nervous.

TALIESIN: It's our fidget spinner.

LAURA: I need a food for my nervousness.

TALIESIN: I will let you know if it snaps while
it's in your teeth it hurts a lot. I know that

from experience.

MARISHA: Yeah, this is like what Dr. Seuss warns
us about as kids.

LAURA: You could break your tooth.

SAM: Guys, what are those shirts? Can you hold up
that shirt again? Oh, there it is.

TALIESIN: This is the face Matt's not making right
now.

JOE: After, if you want to enter the raffle, I'm
not sure how this works, but I brought this shirt.

We're going to rub it all over Travis at break and
then the winner is going to get this shirt. These

only come in extra large.

MATT: I will say because I don't allow monsters
to use special attacks as reactions and haven't

used them the entire game against you guys,
because that would've been much more dangerous, I

won't allow it for this circumstance, but it does
still do the damage on the regular attack.

JOE: Fine. Okay, great, then I'm going to bite
this right in the fucking nose.

MATT: It'll still hit. Go ahead and roll damage.

ASHLEY: It can also be a Halloween costume.

SAM: Ooh!

MARISHA: Oh my goodness! Matthew Mercer?!

MATT: This got really weird suddenly.

TALIESIN: We're going to show up to the next game,
all wearing them like a terrible Council of Evil.

MARISHA: (laughter) Just the eyes cut out.

JOE: Not bad. Do you want me to break it down,
piercing and necrotic?

MATT: No, that's fine.

JOE: Okay, 29 points.

MATT: Actually, no, I do need two of those.

JOE: Okay, then we're going to have 19 piercing
and eight necrotic.

MATT: Okay. Cool.

JOE: 19 and eight, 27.

MATT: Make your attack of opportunity, your attack
of opportunity and your attack of opportunity.

TRAVIS: I'm going to do reckless Trip attack.

MARISHA: Don't. Fuck. Me. Gil! It's fine. It
kind of fucked me. 12.

MATT: No. (ricochet noise) Off his armor.

JOE: 30.

MATT: That hits, roll damage.

TRAVIS: 34.

MATT: Hits, roll damage.

TRAVIS: He's undead, right?

MATT: Yes.

JOE: You first, Grog.

TRAVIS: Oh, no, please.

JOE: No, no, no, you.

TRAVIS: No, you were up first, I insist. Arkhan,
please.

JOE: Yeah, but you did that dynamic jump, it was
really cool.

MARISHA: Jocks were not this polite in the locker
room.

SAM: They were to each other.

TRAVIS: Yeah, 17 and then I roll a d8 or I add a
d8.

MATT: d8 additional damage, yep.

TRAVIS: It's my first one I've ever rolled. Five.
Shit, what did I say?

MATT: 17.

TRAVIS Thank you. 22.

MATT: All right, 22 damage.

TRAVIS: It's a trip attack.

MATT: What does it say it does? I'll pull it up.

TRAVIS: Oh, I'll pull it up. I've got it right
here.

MATT: Here we go. Okay, a strength saving throw.
That's a natural one, so he's going to use his

last legendary resistance to resist it. He's out
of legendary resistances now. All right, and

damage on that one?

JOE: Just pumped a 1st-level Divine Smite, and
that's going to be 21 plus three is 24, 24--

TRAVIS: Does his hand turn into a bat with him? Or
does that fall--

MATT: All of his equipment goes into his form.

JOE: That's going to be 40 points of damage.

MATT: As you all slam into the side of this bat
form it shrieks out and then just (flapping)

it takes off and is going to use its
action to go ahead and go into a dash and continue

to fly away.

TALIESIN: I feel like I would be able to get an
attack somewhere in here considering my range if I

pulled out my big gun.

MATT: Oh yeah. No, we're coming back to that. He
is at that full speed and that form--

TRAVIS: Plus we're still in initiative order.

LIAM: Our reactions come from melee range.

MATT: Okay. So that ends Sylas' turn. Pike, you're
up.

ASHLEY: How far away is he?

MATT: He would be about-- Let's say at that flying
speed of the bat, which I have to look up now,

because that's a thing.

TALIESIN: How could you not be prepared for--

MATT: I know. What is this bullshit, Matt? Jesus
Christ! The bat's flying speed is 30 feet. So he's

60 feet away from you guys at an angle that way.

LAURA: Like here?

MATT: Yeah. 60 feet up there. All right. Pike,
what are you doing?

ASHLEY: Okay. I'm going to--

MARISHA: I love your commitment to the tickle.

ASHLEY: I'm trying to think of what I should do.
Okay, I'm going to try to Guiding Bolt it.

MATT: Okay.

LAURA: Guiding Bolt, up the butt! You want to move
forward so you can hit him?

ASHLEY: Yeah.

MATT: Guiding Bolt, I believe you have to roll
your attack on that one? Yeah, make a ranged spell

attack.

ASHLEY: 18.

MATT: 18 does not hit.

ASHLEY: I'm going to use Guided Strike.

MATT: Okay.

ASHLEY: Which adds plus ten, so 28.

MATT: You can use it on yourself, right?

ASHLEY: Yeah. Guided Strike is for myself, War
God's Blessing is somebody else.

MATT: That's what it is. Yeah. Go for it. That
hits, go ahead and roll damage.

ASHLEY: I'm going to do it at 3rd level, so that's
four, 6d6.

LAURA: 6d6?

MATT: 6d6 radiant damage.

LAURA: All radiant! That is a really good roll.

TALIESIN: That looks solid from here.

SAM: Ashley Johnson. Clutch. Bicoastal Roll.

MATT: Bicoastal Roll?

ASHLEY: Okay, 23.

MATT: 23. (impact) The bat now is shining; the
next attack against it has advantage. End of your turn?

ASHLEY: Let me see. My bonus actions. Ugh, I don't
want to use that in case. Okay, that's it.

MATT: All right. End of your turn, going to use
its Legendary Action to move at speed; the bat is

now 90 feet away. That ends your turn, that brings
us to Scanlan. Oh, the gloomstalkers, actually,

which are no longer stunned. But that's the end of
their turn. End of the gloomstalkers' turn, it's

going to use another Legendary Action to move
another 30, so it's 120 feet away. Scanlan, you're up.

LAURA: He's really far away from us now.

MATT: He's just full sprint.

LIAM: You said 120 feet away?

MATT: 120 feet, yeah.

LAURA: Can you do anything at 120 feet, Scanlan?

SAM: I can do something. I can do one thing.

MARISHA: If you guys let me go right now I can
try-- You can do something?

SAM: Scanlan One will just hold his turn until
those gloomstalkers are in range or until they

move, and then he'll cast, I don't know, frigging
Wand of Magic Missiles, I don't know.

MATT: Sure. All right, end of Scanlan's turn, will
use third and final Legendary Action, is now 150

feet away.

MARISHA: No! Let me go first!

MATT: We're now at Vax's turn.

LAURA: Yeah, you can't switch your initiative.

MARISHA: You can if other people hold. And you
describe--

MATT: They can hold their action, but then at the
end of their turn, he still gets to do movement.

LIAM: All right, I'm going to use my movement and
dash, so five, ten, 15... 50, 55, 60, and I'm

going to paladin attack the gloomstalker up
there.

MATT: Okay.

LIAM: First one is great, that is a 33. And the
second one is also pretty good, 25. Do those both hit?

MATT: They both have an AC of 15.

LIAM: Okay, shit. Should've called Sharpshooter.
All right, so the first one is one, plus eight is nine--

TRAVIS: Can he use a legendary resistance on a
grapple?

MATT: No, because a grapple check is a versus.

LIAM: Seven, so 11 and seven. Just 11 and seven on
that Gloomstalker.

MATT: Got it. Ends your turn, Keyleth, you're up.

MARISHA: How far away is he?

MATT: 150 feet. from where he was.

MARISHA: I'm going to drop my form, take my action
to cast Earthbind on him, it's a 300-foot range spell.

LAURA: Oh my God. Please, please, please. He's
used up his legendary resistances, right?

MARISHA: He did.

MATT: What's the save he has to make?

MARISHA: Strength versus my spell save.

TALIESIN: Do you have something because of your
hit?

MATT: That is 22. 17 plus five.

MARISHA: 22?!

MATT: 17 plus five.

MARISHA: You can't do anything?

TALIESIN: The last time you hit him, does that
mean--

LAURA: Advantage!

MATT: It's a saving throw, it's not an attack.
Yeah, the Earthbind does not take effect on him

unfortunately--

MARISHA: Can I do it again immediately? Can I try
again?

MATT: No, it's an action to cast the spell.

MARISHA: Yeah.

MATT: Sorry.

MARISHA: I know! Can I wait and--

MATT: Okay, Scanlan Two? Anything?

SAM: He's 150 feet away?

MARISHA: He rolled so fucking high!

LAURA: Can you run 30 feet and then do something?

MATT: He can run 25 feet.

SAM: I can run 25 feet and then reach 120 feet.

MATT: Yeah, you're just under--

SAM: I'm five feet shy.

JOE: Wait. I can get you on the back of this thing
and fly it up there.

LIAM: Yeah, but we can't get out of range of the
ring unless we want to--

LAURA: I mean, as soon as Sylas isn't there, he's
going to know we're here.

JOE: So we have to stay within 60 feet. Of each
other.

LAURA: Or we can all just run.

MARISHA: If you all hold, I can try again.

TALIESIN: No, because he's going to keep running.

LAURA: If we hold, he just keeps moving--

MARISHA: Yeah, but it's a 300-foot range spell,
and he's only 150 feet away. I don't think he can dash 150 feet.

SAM: He already did 150 getting to your turn so
he'll be able to do another 150--

MARISHA: But it's a 300-foot range spell.

LIAM: He'd still be in range--

TALIESIN: We don't have to hold our turns, we'll
just get back to you.

MARISHA: Right. That's what I'm saying.

TALIESIN: Oh yeah, no, we're fine. I mean, that'll
happen eventually. If it's going to get there.

LAURA: Whose turn is it?

SAM: It's Scanlan Two's turn. He's going to bonus
action Bigby's Hand, grapple one of the

gloomstalkers.

MATT: Okay.

SAM: The one we've been working on.

MATT: All righty. Bigby's Hand punches--

SAM: Not punches, grapple.

MATT: Okay. We'll say for the purposes of this,
they're--

SAM: They're easily killed.

MATT: They're pretty easily killed given the
circumstances you guys have, the chase now--

SAM: Well, do you want to kill them, or save them
for riding on?

JOE: Bah! I think I'm--

(laughter)

JOE: 40 minus three is 37, This one's got 37 hit
points of damage.

LAURA: Just try to get Sylas.

JOE: Do what you feel, Scanlan.

SAM: Well, I'll just hold him for you.

JOE: Oh, thanks. I appreciate that--

MATT: Let's say, Grog, you go up there and start.
Anything you want to do--

TRAVIS: I want to see what the inside of them
looks like.

MATT: Okay. For the purposes of expediency in
this, so we don't spend time just trudging through

these things, you guys just hacking at these
gloomstalkers.

SAM: One we're saving for him.

MATT: Okay, I will say, to note, that the Control
feature generally is a once-a-day type thing--

SAM: Ooh. Then never mind, we kill it.

MATT: Not like it can constantly regenerate to the
next thing.

JOE: Hmm. Let me read my description that you sent
me. All right. No, okay. I'm calling Mike Mearls!

MARISHA: We get back around everybody! Is he still
fucking here?!

MATT: We get to Sylas' turn. Sylas dashes twice--

TALIESIN: Wait, is it Sylas' turn or my turn?

MATT: Sorry, it's your turn then Sylas', so go
ahead.

TALIESIN: My turn first. I'm going to take my
advantage shot, because I have advantage because of--

MATT: With which gun?

TALIESIN: With Bad News.

MATT: Okay.

LAURA: Wait, why didn't I get to go?

MATT: Oh sorry, you're first. Go for it.

LAURA: Can I run out the door and hop on my broom
and fly as far as I can--

TALIESIN: No, no, no, no!

JOE: 60!

TALIESIN: Ring!

LAURA: Yeah, but I can only get 50 feet away from
you guys. If I come here--

MATT: As soon as you go around that side, you're
starting to get close. Up to you. You have Scanlan

all the way over there. You barely have Scanlan in
your--

LAURA: So I can't leave. So I'm at the bottom of
the stairs. If I run up the stairs and broom it

from here, how far would I get?

MATT: Ten feet out the window.

LAURA: Ten feet out the window and he's 150 and
I'm-- my shot is what, but with Sharpshooter-- no,

that's different.

LIAM: Doesn't affect range, it just affects your
chances.

LAURA: Shit! Wait, let me look at Fenthras. I'm
just hoping there's something that says it's 300 feet!

MATT: Fenthras does not change your range.

LAURA: (nervous laughter) Okay then, it's only
120-foot range, right? With a longbow?

MATT: Well, the way longbows work is you have an
inner range and an outer range, so if he's

beyond--

TALIESIN: But if you're Sharpshooter the outer
range is the inner range.

LAURA: Oh, yeah!

MATT: Yeah, your max is 600.

LAURA: My max is 600 fucking feet?

MATT: Yep.

TALIESIN: Oh, yeah, so you just walk up and take a
shot.

LAURA: Okay then, I'm going to walk up to the
window and I'm going to try to cast Bramble Shot

on him.

TALIESIN: With advantage!

LAURA: With advantage?

SAM: It's an attack.

ASHLEY: Because of--

MATT: Guiding Bolt. Go for it.

TALIESIN: Much better!

JOE: Holy freaking half-elf!

LAURA: 20.

MATT: 20 just hits.

(cheering)

MARISHA: Get him down!

LAURA: Oh my God. Okay, so 12, that's 18 plus
4d8.

LIAM: Sharpshooter doesn't double the distance?

MATT: No, but you have the two different ranges.
Because your range is technically 30 to 60, but

you can go the full 60 without taking disadvantage
after 30 feet.

LIAM: So it's at disadvantage normally?

MATT: No disadvantage as a Sharpshooter. It's a
crazy feat.

LAURA: 43.

MATT: 43 points of damage.

LAURA: And he has to make a strength save of DC 17
or be restrained.

MATT: That is a nine plus five, that is a 14.

(cheering)

MATT: As the arrow hits the bat, you watch as the
arrow bursts into a sudden swarming of bramble

vines. They wrap around him and the bat (small
impact).

LAURA: And does he take bludgeoning damage from
hitting the ground?

MATT: He does take a little bit. He's about 80
feet up from there, because he's going at an

angle, so he takes 8d6 bludgeoning damage.

SAM: Oh my God! That was the most sniper thing
you've ever done!

LAURA: That was pretty awesome!

MATT: And with that, you watch as the bat form
(poof) dissipates. The brambles fall weak and open.

SAM: Is he there?

MATT: Make a perception check.

LAURA: Can I see him?

MATT: Make a perception check.

SAM: No bueno.

LIAM: I got 26 for Vax.

MATT: You see a misty cloud in the space where
Sylas was.

LAURA: 34. Misty cloud! How did we fight him
before? Sunlight destroyed him before?

SAM: Radiant something, right?

LAURA: Sunbeam destroyed him before.

TRAVIS: When he was in the gaseous form.

LAURA: Now he's in the gaseous form. Okay, so I
rolled a 34.

TALIESIN: I rolled huge. 28.

MATT: 28? To what?

TALIESIN: Perception.

MATT: Yeah, you see the mist.

TALIESIN: How far away is he?

LAURA: He's 150 feet away.

LIAM: He didn't get a chance to go.

LAURA: He's 150 feet away from us.

MATT: Yeah.

LAURA: So as a group we can all try to move
forward, but as we get closer to him--

TALIESIN: You've got what it takes. What's the
distance on that thing?

LAURA: What's the Daylight casting distance? Can
you run forward and get close enough?

MARISHA: You guys aren't going to want to hear
this, I can run forward and Sunburst him at 150

feet away but it's going to burn my 8th-level
spell.

SAM: Don't do that.

MARISHA: I have Sunbeam, which is a 6th-level
spell at 60-foot away. No, I dropped my form.

MATT: Yep.

TALIESIN: What if you got on a mount?

SAM: Just to get there as fast as you can.

JOE: But we can't get outside of the 60-foot
bubble.

TALIESIN: We can all move together and he will not
be able to move at high speed as a mist.

LAURA: Hopefully.

MARISHA: Can I scoop up Vex and dash 60 feet ahead
and Sunbeam him for another 60 feet?

MATT: Dash as your action.

TALIESIN: And we have to stay together.

LAURA: We have to stay together.

JOE: Well, you're in the gray. No. Where are you?

MARISHA: I'm green.

LAURA: I'm technically right here, right now. I'm
on the second level. Next to Pike.

JOE: And Bigby's is--

SAM: Is it your turn Keyleth?

MARISHA: Yeah, whose turn is it?

MATT: It's finishing Vex's.

LAURA: No, it's Percy's turn.

MATT: Okay, so Percy. Your turn.

LAURA: You could technically try to sh-- Oh yeah,
mist form.

(laughter)

JOE: Was that a Jenga?

TALIESIN: Wait. I have a weird thing I'm going to
try and do-- No, the thing I need to do, I need to

get within 30 feet.

LAURA: Well, you can get within 60 feet of me so
just move toward--

TALIESIN: I'm going to move to the edge of where
I'm capable of moving right now at my speed. I'm

going to signal everybody and say move as a group.
So we're going to try to sync our movements.

MATT: All right. We'll say for the purposes of
this, the mist travels and vanishes from sight by

the time you are able to catch up to it to get it
to a place where you can destroy it. Delilah

Briarwood has been destroyed, seemingly for the
last time. Sylas has been driven to wherever he

needs to recover.

LAURA: Does it take him a long time?

SAM: Vecna gives up.

JOE: Can I say one thing right now?

MATT: Yes.

JOE: As we were moving in the bubble, I cast
Animate Dead on Delilah and I raise her.

TALIESIN: You're doing what?

SAM: We're fighting her again!

MATT: As you look out, you can see the mist, and
the mist vanishes, and you can see now, looking

up, dozens and dozens of gloomstalkers have all
turned to see this out-in-the-open action that's

now taking place in the space around you. You are
all out, not being stealthy, firing and shooting

out into the air, and you see now, clusters of
these things heading in your direction. As you

turn and look to the side, you watch as Delilah's
body gets up from the ground.

JOE: Rise, and kneel before your master!

MATT: As the shambling corpse of Delilah falls to
her knees before Arkhan--

JOE: Oathbreaker, baby!

MATT: As the realization begins of what is coming
at you. Two you could handle, maybe. There's a lot

in your direction. You have revealed your
position, the wall was already destroyed and

everything is swarming in your direction. As you
all begin to turn around, you hear this deafening

roar from the sky above you. You glance up to see
a flash of brass light as Devo'ssa comes swooping

into the barrier. Behind, a hundred or more Wyvern
Riders, risen from Vasselheim to join the rest of

the brigade come swarming in and collide with the
gloomstalkers. You now see a frantic dog-fight

cluster as hundreds of one and hundreds of the
other begin slamming into each other, tearing each

other apart. You see blades swing, you see arrows
going flying and Devo'ssa begins to do sweeping

rounds, back and forth across the sky. You realise
if there is a moment to move with the distraction,

it's now.

JOE: I load Delilah on the back.

TALIESIN: I grab her wand.

MARISHA: And her holy symbol that fell to the
ground.

LAURA: Whatever that sparking thing was.

MATT: The glowing sparkle light in it is inert
now.

MARISHA: Is what? Inert?

TALIESIN: It was the controller. So we have it.

LAURA: We book it towards the tower. Right?

MATT: You guys begin bolting your way towards
Entropis with its large funnel-like cloud

encircling the top of its spire. And we're going
to take a break.

(cheering)

TRAVIS: Y'all, we recruited dead Delilah!

JOE: I want to find this dude!

MARISHA: What a dick!

MATT: We're going to take a quick break, because
we want to probably push to 11 tonight and then

we're going to leave, so make a quick restroom
break, fast as we can, come back. See you guys

here in just a minute.

LAURA: At the break we're giving away--

MARISHA: We're giving away things.

TALIESIN: So many things!

JOE: Jocks Machina!

MARISHA: Yeah, actually, Max or Ryan, is there
stipulations on the shirt?

TALIESIN: Nope.

MARISHA: We'll figure it out!

JOE: Hey Travis, go put this on.

MATT: Okay guys, we'll see you here in a few
minutes.

TALIESIN: Take the wrapper off! That's weird!

[break]

MATT: Welcome back. A little longer than I
anticipated, but that's fine. We're going to jump

in here, but before we do that, the winners for
the Wyrmwood box, we have Zabando is the winner.

For the Jocks Machina shirt, we have Alcyon299.
Congratulations! You get to join the very

exclusive Jocks Machina club.

TRAVIS: Testosterone poncho.

JOE: Only five of these. The other's my trainer
Ron, who plays another goliath, and my brother

Nick, who plays an elf ranger who was incinerated
by the fucking death knight!

MATT: So. Bringing it back in. As you guys are
charging your way toward Entropis, running through

the streets, you do the best you can to dodge in
and out of any sort of things that might catch

your attention street-side. You see most of the
undead and various cultists have been filtering

down beneath the city a while back, and you're not
entirely certain where they are at the moment. The

few dregs there are around there, you guys easily
enough dodge around.

Pushing forward, you see the Spire of Entropis
growing taller and taller, the closer and closer

you get to it. As soon as you get to the base of
the spire, you look up and you can see the broken

seams of the once-toppled tower, now held together
by the network of glowing, magical threads, like

arcane veins, wrapping the tower and lending an
unsettling, organic nature to its visage. The

exterior still stands, windowless, like an obelisk
of tyranny looming over the entirety of the city.

The apex, of course, is now obscured by shadow and
cloud, this slow-spinning tornado of twilight

darkness entwining the top, blocking visibility,
and possibly entry, at the top. Numerous

gloomstalkers encircle the higher level, not
currently engaging in the main fray, which is

chaos all around. You see more emerging from this
cloud, almost seemingly creating them.

The large front doors of the tower appear somewhat
ajar and open. There is one rot behemoth currently

standing in front of this door. Vox Machina, what
do you want to do?

TRAVIS: I don't want to overthink this, but I feel
like the sword said that it wanted to cut the webs

of Vecna. Can I just cut the tower down?

LAURA: I don't know if that's--

TRAVIS: I take your laugh as a sign of--

SAM: I don't know if you can cut the whole tower
down. They'll probably try to stop you. Don't you think?

ASHLEY: You could certainly try.

TRAVIS: I could, couldn't I?

ASHLEY: Yeah.

TRAVIS: Perhaps not.

LAURA: I feel like, do we see any other doors,
like, secret doors, maybe?

SAM: Do we see invisible doors?

MATT: Perception, glancing around, you don't see
anything. It looks like this is the door,

entrance, to it. You could make an investigation
check, but you'd have to get up against the wall

and carefully check it.

LAURA: Can I do that without letting the rot
behemoth see me?

MATT: You can certainly try.

TRAVIS: That's a big fat no!

MATT: You can certainly try. It's not a no.

LIAM: But we're directly in front of the door a
ways back? How far back?

MATT: You're about 40 feet away from it, off to
the side, glancing over where you can see the rot

behemoth looming in the archway.

LAURA: We didn't really think about how we were
getting up the tower, did we?

JOE: Here's a possibility. I have a gloomstalker
and I have Delilah. I put her on the back of this

thing and fly it up there, maybe this thing moves
out of the way.

LAURA: Maybe the rot behemoth moves?

JOE: I'm just saying.

SAM: Can she talk? Can you make her talk?

JOE: I don't think I can puppet her. I can tell
her to do commands.

LAURA: Can you tell her to talk?

JOE: She'll understand what I'm saying, but I
don't think she can--

MATT: By the way, as you've made this journey
forward and Delilah's been shambling behind, you

know, sitting behind you, this strange pain has
been hitting you in the back of your shoulders.

You glance back and look at the corpse of Delilah
behind you as a rapidly growing tree is protruding

and growing out of the chest of the corpse, and is
now setting weight off of the top of the

gloomstalker as it's trying to flutter up behind
the party.

LAURA: Sorry, sorry, that's a thing.

JOE: Can I Cleansing Touch and end one spell?

MATT: It's less of a spell effect and more of a
divine seed that was placed inside her body when

she was slain by the Vestige, Fenthras.

LAURA: I placed my seed inside of her.

TALIESIN: And it quickened.

MATT: Don't make it weird.

LAURA: I make everything weird, Matt.

JOE: I'm not going to further question you about
that.

SAM: You knocked her up.

JOE: Yeah, okay, must be an elf thing. That's
interesting. Very interesting, okay, great.

SAM: Maybe they'll think that it's just a fashion
thing, and they'll let her through.

MATT: It's still growing, and it's now protruding
about four feet from her chest. The body is now

starting to get a little top-heavy.

LAURA: Just chop the tree down! It's a thin tree.

MATT: Yeah, it's not very thick. It's maybe
about-- Okay, so you take a couple hacks at it and

eventually you manage to cut away the tree. Now
there's a trunk that's now stopped growing, about

a foot out of Delilah's chest, with roots that
have taken root up into the shoulders and the chest.

LAURA: That's sick. It's like she's got a built-in
shield now.

TRAVIS: Can I take one of the fancy robes that
remains in the Bag of Holding and drape it over

the trunk coming out of her chest, so it's a
little more hidden?

MATT: Sure.

LAURA: Now it looks like she's pregnant!

SAM: I need a house. Can I take her branches and
make one?

MATT: A house?

SAM: Oh, it's The Giving Tree.

(groaning)

LAURA: That's terrible.

(something clanks on the floor)

LAURA: Oh! What was that?

MATT: You have this rot behemoth at the entryway.
What are you guys doing?

LIAM: Well, our options are somehow flying up or
going in the front door.

LAURA: Do we fly up, or do we go inside and up the
tower? I'm sure there's no traps or horrible

things on the inside of it.

MARISHA: Last time, Pike and I took it down with a
couple of Earthquake spells.

TALIESIN: But that didn't help nearly as much as
we thought it would.

MARISHA: I mean, we didn't have to go up the damn
thing, so maybe check yourself before you say things.

SAM: Let's just charge in. This is a fricking
giant, right? We've killed giants.

TRAVIS: Behemoth. Is it dead? Undead?

MATT: The rot behemoth? It's undead.

JOE: It's undead? How big is a rot behemoth?

MATT: The rot behemoth is about 12 feet tall or
so. Just a mass of stitched-together undead flesh.

JOE: Medium, or large?

MATT: Large.

TALIESIN: I've got an idea. Can I borrow some of
that infinite rope?

LAURA: Of course.

TALIESIN: All right. I'm taking the infinite rope,
and I'm tying it around my little gem that I have.

LAURA: The little blue gem?

TALIESIN: My little glowing gem.

MARISHA: Are you going to do that $20 bill trick
in New York City, thing?

TALIESIN: More or less. Are we all agreed?

LAURA: I love it, I love it!

TRAVIS: If it doesn't work, we kill it.

LAURA: Yeah, we'll drag it out of the doorway so
we can kill it!

TALIESIN: Well, I'm going to make it move away,
and then once we're in I'm going to yank--

LIAM: I used to do this with string and a G.I. Joe
for my cat when I was a kid. She loved it. I'm

sure the rot behemoth will too.

MATT: Okay, so. You take the pulse stone, you tie
it around--

TALIESIN: I tie it around in a monkey fist knot. I
toss it about 20 feet away. I'm going to give it a

throw. I'm going to throw it about 20 feet away
from the-- We're all in agreement of this plan?

SAM: This is the best plan.

LIAM: Wait, one second. Do we want to lure it into
a house and all of us be waiting to gank the shit

out of it?

TALIESIN: Well, technically, wait, hold on.

MATT: You see a flash and a flare in the sky above
you. You see a cluster of gloomstalkers immolated

by a burst of flame breath from Devo'ssa, who's
now up in the stratosphere. At this same time, you

see about a dozen or so wyvern riders go riding
into this slow, spinning storm and get

disintegrated into pieces.

TALIESIN: I'm actually going to throw the gem,
then, past the stone giant, into the room. Just a

little bit so that anything in the room--

MATT: Make a strength check for me. That's a bit
of a lob.

TALIESIN: Okay. Nine?

MATT: It makes it about the 20 feet you intended
to. (clattering)

LAURA: Pull it back and we'll have one of the-- I
mean, not that you're not strong and very--

MATT: So what was the range on this Pulse Stone?

TALIESIN: 30 feet.

MATT: Okay, it is within range to affect the rot
behemoth.

TALIESIN: Okay. I have to roll, though. I have to
do a roll to see if it survived the throw.

MATT: That's true, yeah.

TALIESIN: Yeah. It's fine.

MATT: Tink, tink! It's a will save for the rot
behemoth.

TALIESIN: DC 15.

MATT: Wisdom? That's a two. No. You guys watch as
the rot behemoth, the stone, (clattering), its

metal-armored face and glowing coal eyes turn
(heavy footsteps) and walks over to the gem and

stares at it.

TALIESIN: Let's all go in, shall we? And I'm going
to walk around it and stealth in.

LAURA: Pass Without a Trace is still fucking up,
if it's been less than an hour.

MATT: Make a concentration check for me, real
fast. Make a constitution saving throw.

LIAM: We just watched the wyverns get obliterated
trying to fly into the swirl at the top.

LAURA: I got 18.

MATT: Okay, you maintain the concentration.
Referring to the blast from the skeletal dragon,

earlier on. All right. So. Did you guys all roll
stealth?

SAM: Stealth? Oh shit.

LAURA: Plus ten!

TALIESIN: Natural 20.

MARISHA: Wait, stealth?

SAM: I rolled a two and a two, so that's 15 and
15.

JOE: How do I do this on this gloomstalker, with
the zombie? How does this work?

MATT: Zombie's not stealthed, but it is undead.
Gloomstalker, it's hard to be stealthed, that

gloomstalker, right now.

SAM: We're going inside, we don't need it
anymore!

JOE: Want me to leave it?

SAM: I mean, what are you going to do with a
flying thing in a narrow stairway? We've seen

inside, we scryed inside. It's a very narrow
stairway going up.

LAURA: Can you have him climb up the side of the
tower and meet you up top?

SAM: Oh yeah, meet us up top? (under his breath)
He ain't going to survive that.

LAURA: Well, we can try it though.

TRAVIS: He might.

JOE: Yeah, I think that would work.

MATT: Okay, you can do that.

JOE: I hate it when you do that!

LIAM: I mean, I love it, but I hate it.

TALIESIN: Also, double checking-- grit is a reset
after combat, not a reset after a short rest?

MATT: No, it's a short rest.

TALIESIN: Short rest? Okay, just checking.

JOE: I have the wreath back on my neck, correct?
Because that's how it works, I put it back on my

neck once we're attuned?

MATT: Yeah, you put it back on your neck once
you've-- correct.

JOE: Okay. They, meet us at the top!

MATT: Okay, as you step off and look into its
eyes, your eyes flare the bright yellow color and

the gloomstalker nods, takes a step back, and then
leaps onto the side of the tower, its claws

gripping in. As it bats its wings, it takes off
and starts heading upward.

JOE: Circle at the top and wait for my command!

MATT: It seems to acknowledge your command.

JOE: All right, now at disadvantage, rolling in
heavy plate.

TRAVIS: You got it.

JOE: Do I have a plus ten? Sweet. Yeah, I got
this. All right. Nine, 27.

MATT: Okay, so. 27. Two and two, 15, 15. Natural
20.

MARISHA: 29.

LIAM: Oh, it was a one, but it's a 37 now.

LAURA: Because you rolled a luck? What?

LIAM: No, Matt told me that, because of reliable
talent, one means shit.

MATT: He always has a ten minimum.

LAURA: That's fucking badass! 37.

ASHLEY: 21.

TRAVIS: 22.

MATT: All right. So as you guys all dart in around
this rot behemoth, who pays no mind to your

presence, you dart into the partially ajar doorway
into the base of Entropis, the tower itself. It's

dark inside. As soon as you all dart into the
interior, the doors are still partially open and

you can see the faint glow of the very low general
light that encompasses the city of Thar Amphala.

The normal greenish-blue glow of the shield is
offset a little bit by the natural light that's

coming through from the opening of the barrier
that you guys have opened. However, the light

still diminishes as you step into this large
chamber. As soon as you enter the chamber, those

of you with darkvision glance around and see, it's
a big thoroughfare. You see a large foyer-type

chamber with pillars that go from bottom to maybe
25, 30 feet up, to a ceiling. Across the way, you

can see two spiral staircases that curl upward and
there, maybe, 30 or so humanoid figures that are

in the center of this chamber.

SAM: What are they doing?

MATT: Well, as soon as you guys step and turn
around, they all turn and look at you and begin

to-- (sluggish footsteps).

LAURA: We need that orb.

TALIESIN: Once they're within range of us, I'm
going to wait.

MATT: I mean, a lot of them are going to be right
up on you, right now.

JOE: Can I sense what kind they are? Divine Sense,
tell what type of fiend, celestial, or undead they are?

MATT: They are undead. They appear to be mostly of
the baseline skeletal or zombie variety. It's a

cluster of undead that are set here.

TALIESIN: Okay, I'm going to tug on the rope and
pull it up and toss the gem right smack-dab in the

center of us. Unless somebody else wants to throw
it. Eh, it doesn't matter. I just yanked it.

MATT: Okay, you yank it. Go ahead and make a roll.
See if it's destroyed or not.

TALIESIN: Nope, it's good.

MATT: All right. The stone (clattering) arcs in
the center. The blue pulse-glow light billows out.

You see the various skeletons and zombies charge
into the light. They stop and stare at it. Let's see.

TALIESIN: DC 15.

LIAM: 30 rolls.

SAM: Pike, can't you kill masses of undead?

MATT: Okay, so of the 30 or so, about 20 of them
stop and stare at the glow while you hear a

bounding, heavy footfall sound behind where you
came from.

TALIESIN: He was not still within range?

MATT: No, you pulled the stone from where you
were, inside the chamber now, so he's now rushing

in after where the stone went.

LIAM: This'll still work. Spread, and let him run
right into the range of it?

LAURA: Oh, we can get out of the way and let him
maybe run into the undead that are--

LIAM: As soon as he enters he's in range, isn't
he?

MATT: Possibly. Up to you guys. But technically,
undead are still rushing in toward you and they're

immediately scrambling, with their claws and
teeth, out there. Let's say, for the people at

front here, it's going to be probably the two of
you who first made it in, so three attacks against

each of you. That is an 18 against you, Vax.

LIAM: No.

MATT: That is a 20 against you.

LIAM: No.

MATT: No, that misses. Three against you. Natural
20. A 20.

LAURA: No.

MATT: And a natural one. All right, so while they
scramble at you and you push them back at bay, one

of them does manage to get through. It's going to
be 12 points of slashing damage against you, Vex,

as one of them swings at you with a rusty blade
that carves past you.

LAURA: Okay.

MATT: All right. What are you guys doing?

ASHLEY: How many of them? About 30?

MATT: About 30 of them, yeah.

LIAM: Pickle, can you release a Sarenrae bomb?

ASHLEY: Yeah, I'll take out my Mace of Disruption.
I don't want to use any more spells.

MATT: You have your Channel Divinity, your turn
undead. Or destroy undead.

LAURA: Yeah, destroy undead.

ASHLEY: Do I want to wait?

LAURA: I don't know how many undead we're going to
face--

LIAM: Vecna's going to be too powerful for a
destroy or turn undead. It's for weak-ass shit

like this.

LAURA: But he might have, you know, I don't know
what kind of army he's going to have up top, so

it's up to you.

ASHLEY: Well, I have another one.

LAURA: So maybe do one of them?

ASHLEY: So I can do it now, yeah.

MATT: Okay, so as you rush in toward where this
Pulse Stone is, as the crowd of undead are

gathered in, you hunker down, clutch your holy
symbol, and release a wave of divine energy, the

whispers and prayer of Sarenrae emanating from you
like a caustic wave against undead energy. What's

the DC on that?

ASHLEY: It's not written down.

MATT: It's your spell DC.

LAURA: Oh, 18.

MATT: Okay, 18.

SAM: Wisdom, intelligence, or charisma.

LIAM: Wisdom for clerics.

SAM: Has your wisdom gone up at all?

LIAM: Eight, plus five, plus your proficiency
bonus. 14, 20.

LAURA: You're at six proficiency bonus, now.
You're not at--

ASHLEY: I am? I didn't know that.

LAURA: So your DC is 19. Sorry, Matt.

MATT: It's okay. I lost count. Even with their
saves, four undead survive. As the shock wave

emanates out from you, you watch as about two
dozen of these various skeletons and zombies, many

of which are grasping at you, turn to ash. One of
them, you see it reaching out toward you, you get

a glimpse of it. You can see, this one's a fresher
corpse, one of the zombies. It has dirty blonde

hair, a torn chin with stubble, and for a brief
minute you can see-- it has this gash in its

stomach, a partially eaten arm. For a brief
minute, as it reaches out for you before the wave

hits, you're like, "Aldor?" Turns to ash.

MARISHA: Aldor?

MATT: A member of the Slayer's Take. Once the
prized love of--

SAM: Felicia Day!

(gasping)

LAURA: No!

MARISHA: No, Aldor!

SAM: Oh, no!

MATT: As the flash expands, you glance around and
you see a withered gnome corpse has been reaching

toward you. Mostly bald head in places. You
recognize, this is one of your companions, Grubby,

before the wave hits and he turns to ash.

SAM: You just killed two of our friends, Pike!

LAURA: Don't do that to her!

ASHLEY: Fuck off, I didn't know!

MATT: All of these are long dead. As this burst of
energy hits and all of a sudden dust and ash fill

the chamber around you--

LAURA: Did it do anything to the rot behemoth
coming in?

MATT: The rot behemoth behind-- what is the DC on
him?

LIAM: Challenge rating of four or lower.

MATT: Yeah, it's higher than a challenge rating
four, so it doesn't affect him at all. But the

four of you, easy enough to cleave him down, but
we'll see if he's even affected by the stone. So

the last four that are there, as they charge into
the stone, nope! None of them make their save, so

the last four that are still there, all stop and
stare and glare at this stone in the center of the

chamber. The rot behemoth comes looming in.
(crashing) What's the DC?

TALIESIN: DC is 15.

MATT: 14, does not make it. By one!

LIAM: Don't worry, Matt. Your luck is coming
upstairs.

MATT: That's true, that's true. So the rot
behemoth (crashing) through the door and then

stays there, staring at the stone, blocking the
doorway and holding it in place. But now this

chamber's open.

LAURA: Should we kill this shit while we're
stunned?

SAM: No, we should just run up!

LAURA: How do we know we're not going to run into
a whole bunch more?

TALIESIN: Which is why we're going to keep the
rope. We're going to go all the way up the stairs,

and when we're ready, we're going to tug like a
motherfucker.

LAURA: Okay, and then all these things are going
to chase after us?

MATT: They'll keep following you. Every time you
pull the stone, they're going to come toward you.

LAURA: So we might as well kill them now, while
they're stunned.

TALIESIN: All right, one at a time. Let's kill one
at a time.

SAM: The giant's going to take more than one hit.

TALIESIN: Yeah, but we're going to get him.

MATT: We'll say, easy enough for you guys to
coordinate. The skeletons are easy enough to

destroy. The rot behemoth, all in one swoop, you
guys can take down as one quick blast on it. One

of the skeletons, you also recognize: a heavily
charred zombie making a horrid sighing sound as

it's sitting there, staring at the stone. You see
the remains of Vander.

JOE: Is he damaged?

MATT: Burnt to a cinder. The last thing you saw
was him being immolated and screaming.

JOE: I'd like to Channel Divinity and Control
Undead.

MATT: Okay. And with that, before you destroy the
zombie--

JOE: It's a wisdom save.

MATT: Wisdom save? Three. Nope. You've got two
zombies. Delilah and now your previous ally,

Vander. Turns from the stone. (wheezing)

JOE: This is fucking dark.

TALIESIN: I'm really excited about the notion of a
Delilah potted plant.

JOE: It's my brother's character from our home
group!

LIAM: You are now Michonne, from Walking Dead. You
got two zombies.

TRAVIS: Bring them into the CRU, you got them!

JOE: Zombie Vander, aw man. This is like, rattling
whatever blackened heart my character has. Okay.

LIAM: All right, well, up we go, then, yeah?

TALIESIN: Let's do this.

LIAM: I'm going to look for traps, as we go.

MATT: All right, make an investigation check.

SAM: Everyone all healed up to full?

LAURA and MARISHA: No.

SAM: Should we pause and heal, or--?

LAURA: Pause for 30 minutes and heal?

TRAVIS: Vasselheim was just out the window.

LIAM: Two miles away, ish.

MATT: What'd you roll?

LIAM: 18.

MATT: 18, okay.

SAM: If you take a potion, you're full. Right?
Don't you have your thing going, or no, is that gone?

TRAVIS: Beacon of Hope.

LAURA: Beacon of Hope just means it heals the max
that a healing spell or a healing potion can do.

You don't automatically go to full health.

TRAVIS: 2d8, 16.

SAM: Oh, I didn't know that.

MATT: How long does Beacon of Hope last?

LIAM: One minute.

MATT: Beacon is gone.

LAURA: That's okay. Do you have a healing spell
for people?

ASHLEY: I do.

TRAVIS: Are we doing a group thing right now?

LIAM: Are we short resting or we doing little
healies?

LAURA: I don't think we have 30 minutes.

MARISHA: We need a full 30 minutes to do a quick
short rest?

MATT: Technically it's a full hour, by the rules.
I let it slide a little faster in times of

intensity. I'd allow a 30-minute quick rest, but
that's still--

TALIESIN: I would not say no to it, but I can live
without it.

LAURA: I don't know, I mean, they're fighting at
Vasselheim right now.

TRAVIS: Yeah, we're at the gates.

MARISHA: I'm at 94 hit points, I'm down about 50
or so hit points.

LIAM: I'm telling you, though, it's this or
nothing. If we fall here, if we fail, then it's

fucked, so even if it destroys half the city, it's
better to have all of us at full fighting

potential.

JOE: I would like to cast Death Ward on myself.
4th-level spell slot.

MATT: Okay.

TRAVIS: All right, do it. Do the short rest. Just
do it.

SAM: Wait, we're doing a short rest? Wait, who
needs it?

TALIESIN: We honestly all do.

LAURA: We all need healing. I'm 40 points down.

MARISHA: I'm 50 points down, and I burned both of
my shape change. Who else is down far?

TRAVIS: A quarter, or half, of Vasselheim, is--

SAM: Don't you have a healing spell?

ASHLEY: I do, but it depends on the roll.

SAM: No no, because it maximizes it.

LAURA: No, we don't have it anymore.

ASHLEY: Yeah, so if I roll bad, or--

LIAM: No, but we have hit dice. You don't need the
spells.

SAM: Bye, Vasselheim.

MATT: All right, so you guys are taking a short
rest in the inside of Entropis?

MARISHA: No, look, super short.

MATT: There is no super-short rest. It's a short
rest.

SAM: Seems terrible.

MATT: Vasselheim was in sight when you were
outside.

MARISHA: I don't know! What do you want?

MATT: I'm just letting you know!

SAM: We have potions! Can't we drink potions?

JOE: Listen, you're not going to need the potions
after today. I'm just saying.

LAURA: Might as well take them.

TRAVIS: Don't take your superior, though.

SAM: No, we have other ones, though.

LAURA: Can you try healing and see what it does?

ASHLEY: Yeah, I'll do Mass Cure Wounds on you
guys.

LAURA: What does that do?

MARISHA: I don't know, but we also, we broke down
the barrier, so Vasselheim can defend itself a

little more.

TRAVIS: One-sixth of the pie.

MARISHA: I'm 50 points down and without my beast
shape.

LAURA: You don't have beast shape?

MARISHA: I used it to go earth elemental, because
I thought the Briarwood fight might be a little

bit more beefy than it was. But I don't
necessarily need it.

TRAVIS: Vote as a group. Hand up if you want a
short rest.

SAM: No.

TRAVIS: No hands? Just put your hand up if you
want it.

TALIESIN: I will admit, it would do a lot for me.

TRAVIS: Keyleth, put your hand up.

LIAM: I'm going to put up because I think that
these two need it.

TRAVIS: I'll tie-break it.

LAURA: So short rest? Short rest. Okay.

SAM: Vasselheim.

MARISHA: To quote the leaders of Vasselheim, "They
have defended themselves through many forms of battle."

JOE: That vampire's going to be up there, full
strength. He's going to be back. He's going to be

back full strength.

LAURA: He might not be back full strength yet!

JOE: He'll be back something.

LAURA: He takes a while to rest up.

JOE: It's 25 a minute, isn't it?

TRAVIS: It's super fast.

MATT: He regenerates 25-- Well, there's a lot of
things at work here. It depends. Roll a religion check.

TRAVIS: Natural one.

TALIESIN: I'll try a religion check.

JOE: I'm a paladin with terrible religion skills.
Blind faith.

MATT: All right, but still roll a religion check.
Seeing as how undead is your domain.

LIAM: Just roll a natural 20, Joe.

JOE: I rolled a natural 18.

MATT: Plus?

JOE: Zero, for religion.

MATT: Okay, okay. You know this because of your
experience with undead and amassing yourself a

necromantic energy since breaking your oath long
ago. When a vampire is reduced to zero hit points

and goes into mist form, it has two hours to
return to its resting place. When it reaches its

resting place, it has to rest for one hour. Once
it rests for the one hour, it goes back to one hit

point and then it regenerates 25 hit points, or at
least, Sylas, every single round.

LIAM: Roughly how much time has passed since we
went from--?

MATT: I'd say 30-ish minutes or so. 30 or 40,
because you've been slowly stealthing your way

through, being careful.

LIAM: Right right, but probably his box of dirt is
not--

MATT: So if you take a short rest, you're probably
going to look at a Sylas waiting for you somewhere

up top.

LAURA: It's going to take two hours to get up the
tower?

SAM: It's a big tower. There's lots of shit up
there.

MATT: No, meaning, if you guys take a short rest,
he needs to rest for an hour. It took you 40

minutes since that happened to get to the tower.
If you take a short rest, you're going to have to

deal with a Sylas.

TALIESIN: I mean fuck it, if we heal ourselves--

SAM: Scanlan's got healing. Scanlan Two's got
healing. We can pump you guys up.

TRAVIS: Because he also turns people, right?

TALIESIN: He does turn people.

TRAVIS: I barely made that save.

LAURA: We need to not rest.

TALIESIN: How much heal do you get out of a
potion?

ASHLEY: Who's bad?

MARISHA: I'm not great.

ASHLEY: You're bad? Who else?

JOE: I could use some, seeing that I have tank
duties.

SAM: How many can you include?

ASHLEY: Okay, is anybody down? I'm going to do
Prayer of Healing. I want to save Mass Cure Wounds.

MARISHA: I'm at 94 hit points, so I'm down--

JOE: I'm down 42, but I could probably heal--

MATT: You could take a short rest, but understand
and be prepared with the knowledge of knowing that

you're also going-- put some things in your
chamber that will be helpful against a vampire.

SAM: Scanlan Two has tons of healing spells that
he can use, so use them. He's going to be dead

soon anyway.

MARISHA: You guys don't want us losing any of our
spellcasters right now. I'm at 94. It's not a lot,

it's not bad, but it's bad enough. I'm a third of
my hit points down.

MATT: You do have a battery of low-level spell
slots right now that can be used to heal things up

if you want to.

SAM: Yeah, I can heal you and heal you and heal
you until you're all done.

MARISHA: Yeah, but every time you heal me and heal
me and heal me, it's taking away from something

else mechanically.

SAM: It's a level one bullshit spell slot.

TALIESIN: But it's also healing that could be done
in combat. That's what we're meaning.

MARISHA: I'm resigning my decision right now.

MATT: Make a choice here, guys. You're wasting
time in the tower.

SAM: No short rest! Heal some people, I'll heal
some more. We got this. We got lots of healing.

ASHLEY: Okay, I'll just use a 2nd-level for 16
points of healing for six people who need it.

SAM: Great!

MARISHA: 16 points? I'll take that.

LAURA: I'm taking one.

SAM: I will take it as well.

TALIESIN: How many people have taken it so far?

SAM: You said up to six people? I'll take that.

MARISHA: 110, I'm still 31 hit points down.

SAM: I will cast Healing Word, or Scanlan Two will
cast Healing Word at 2nd-level for you.

MARISHA: For me?

SAM: Yeah. That's--

MATT: You can use Cure Wounds as opposed to
Healing Word.

SAM: I don't have Cure Wounds.

MATT: Oh, that's right. Never mind.

SAM: That's nine more points for you.

MARISH: For me?

SAM: Yeah. Oh, wait! I can sing a Song of Rest.

MATT: That takes a short rest to do.

SAM: Yeah. That makes sense.

MARISHA: I could do my speech if I had a short
rest.

LAURA: Well, you can do the speech as we climb up
the tower!

JOE: How much are you short? She's 22 short?

LAURA: The speech does what? Does the speech
regain hit points?

MATT: Ten minutes to say the speech.

LAURA: So as we climb the tower, she could be
saying it?

MATT: Perhaps, yeah.

SAM: I will heal you another 2nd-level healing
spell.

LAURA: A Greater Healing Potion is 4d4?

MATT: You've got it. 4d4 plus four.

SAM: That's another 12 points.

MATT: Consider now, as you guys climb the tower,
if you have any buff spells, if you have any

long-lasting things that you want to utilize for
the coming fray. Freedom of Movement, Death Ward,

all the things you guys want to prepare with,
now's the time to do it.

MARISHA: 141, I'm full.

LIAM: I'm going to, when we're right on the verge,
when we think we're right on the verge, I'm

blessing you and you.

TRAVIS: I think this is the verge.

MARISHA: Is this the verge? Because if this is the
verge--

MATT: You still have the tower to climb, but know,
if you have spells, like buffs, to cast that

aren't concentration and last a while, now's the
time to do it.

MARISHA: Like, an hour a while?

JOE: Tiamat gave her 12. I'm going to give 18 to
myself out of my healing pool.

MARISHA: Pike and I burn all of our 4th level
spell splots to do--

ASHLEY: Splots!

MARISHA: Splots! Do all of our spell splots! To
cast Freedom of Movement on anybody. With the

exception of Percy, who already has it.

JOE: What does Freedom of Movement do?

MATT: Wait, how many slots is that for you guys,
then?

MARISHA: Three each.

MATT: Three each. Okay.

MARISHA: Except, we didn't account for--

SAM: Scanlan Two.

MARISHA: Or Arkhan.

JOE: What's happening?

MATT: Okay. Anything else you want to buff with?

LAURA: Yes, I'm going to invoke my Blessing of the
Dawnfather.

MATT: Okay.

MARISHA: Oh my god.

MATT: No Death Wards?

JOE: I did--

MATT: You did Death Ward to yourself?

TRAVIS: She has a Death Ward.

ASHLEY: Wait a second. One of us is without
Freedom of Movement.

LAURA: Scanlan Two.

TALIESIN: I have it automatically.

MARISHA: He has it automatically.

ASHLEY: Understand.

LAURA: Can anybody cast some Death Wards too?

JOE: Wait, I didn't get Freedom of Movement?

SAM, TALIESIN, and MARISHA: No.

SAM: We did it with an earring. Sorry, you weren't
on.

JOE: I'm over kicking a can in the corner.

SAM: We're all on iPhones and you're on a Windows
phone.

ASHLEY: I don't have another 4th-level, unless I
burn a 5th-level, for Death Ward.

JOE: Now, I have some funky shit. I have a
Cleansing Touch, anyway, that can end a spell on

me or any willing creature that I touch, so that
should help.

MATT: So what's the plan, guys?

SAM: Wait, we're doing things that last an hour?

LAURA: We're doing things, yeah. We're doing it.

SAM: Shit.

MARISHA: I mean, I don't know-- Unless we want to
try and get higher up before we go.

MATT: That's up to you guys.

MARISHA: Do we think this is it? Are we sure this
is it?

LIAM: Is it one of these guys where we can see the
height of the tower, or--?

MATT: You can't see the height of the tower. It
goes up into another floor.

MARISHA: Okay, so this means, anything we
encounter, if it's not fucking Vecna, then we're

barreling through it and going straight up.
Because we've burned everything.

MATT: If you want to hold your spells until you
get higher, I'll let you do that. Up to you.

LIAM: There's a death knight.

MARISHA: I don't know what's worth it. Do we have
any idea of how much higher this tower goes?

MATT: I mean, it goes pretty high.

LIAM: Oh, excuse me. Where is Vecna right now? How
high up?

MATT: Right above you.

LIAM: Right above us, way up, or a floor up?

MATT: Way up.

LIAM: Way up. Okay.

MARISHA: Do we want to try and jog another ten
minutes before doing this?

TALIESIN: Let's get halfway up the tower.

MARISHA: Okay, okay. Before we burn everything--

MATT: Just letting you guys be prepared here,
because you're Vox Machina.

MARISHA: Okay, we're going to go ten more minutes
up and I'm going to give a speech as we go.

LAURA: So I'm invoking the blessing as we get
closer.

ASHLEY: Does anybody else want Death Ward?

TALIESIN: No, I'm good.

MARISHA: I say, okay, guys, as we climb this
tower, I know there's a lot of stairs, but the

stairs are going to be fucking nothing compared to
Vecna. But holy fuck, these are a lot of fucking stairs.

SAM: This is inspiring.

TALIESIN: The stairs are a metaphor.

MARISHA: The stairs are a metaphor. Each stair
that we get across is going to be like another

step further into defeating Vecna. You know? With
each stair-- I'm winded.

LAURA: The stairs are long, but they're not
infinite.

MARISHA: The stairs are long, but they are not
infinite. Be good and now we're almost there,

guys! We're almost there! This is it! This is it.
(sobbing and panting)

LAURA: I feel so inspired, Keyleth. Thank you.

SAM: Wow, that was so inspiring.

MARISHA: This is it, you guys! Just keep going up
the stairs! And that's my speech.

MATT: Okay, take your 17-- no, 19--

MARISHA: 19 hit points.

MATT: 19 temporary hit points. Including you.

JOE: 19 temporary, yeah.

MARISHA: And they're temporary, not--

LAURA: In addition to our plus two, so now we have
21.

MARISHA: Do we heal above that?

MATT: Yeah. Well, you get temporary hit points,
like a buffer shield.

MARISHA: Right, so those 19 go first.

MATT: Correct. Okay.

LAURA: Oh god, oh god, oh god. Okay, are we
getting near the top?

JOE: Let me know, because I'm going to throw up.

TRAVIS: Who wants the Death Ward?

MARISHA: Yeah, and Pike and I cast whenever seems
appropriate.

MATT: Right.

TRAVIS: But who wants it? Who needs it?

SAM: I mean, who's going to die?

TALIESIN: This one, definitely.

LAURA: Okay, here's the thing. The people that
have the trammels should probably have a Death

Ward, too.

TRAVIS: I've got my one hit point regenerate,
regenerate, regenerate.

LAURA: Okay, you're good.

SAM: Pike can have one.

ASHLEY: I have my armor.

LAURA: Okay, so that bumps you back up once you've
gone down once. So really, he needs-- and you,

well, no. You won't come back right away.

LIAM: If I have the Death Ward, I will pop back
up.

MATT: There is only one person that can complete
the Incantation of Sealing.

SAM: That's me.

TRAVIS: Sealing of what? Oh, the trammels?

MATT: Once the trammels are in--

TRAVIS: You've got to put it on Scanlan.

TALIESIN: He has to do it. Without Scanlan,
everything goes to shit.

LIAM: What about Scanlan Two? Can Scanlan Two do
it?

SAM: Technically. He's not going to last that
long, guys.

ASHLEY: I cast Death Ward on Scanlan.

SAM: Pike, I accept your blessing.

ASHLEY: Scanlan, if we get through this, you know
what that means, don't you?

SAM: No, what does it mean?

TALIESIN: It means that your clone's going to get
very lucky. You, on the other hand, no.

ASHLEY: You'll just have to live. You wait and
find out.

SAM: Well, what does it mean? What could it
mean?!

ASHLEY: Just live! You'll see!

SAM: Just then, the real Scanlan comes back from
peeing. He's like, what'd I miss, guys?

(laughter)

MATT: Ascending the stairs, you climb and climb,
the spiral continuing upward. Both of the stairs

spiral upward, so which direction did you take?
The right, or the left?

LAURA: The right. No, wait! Which hand does Vecna
chop off?

MATT: The left.

TRAVIS: What does your speech do, Keyleth, again?

MARISHA: It gives you an additional 19 hit points.
Temporary hit points. So add plus 19 on top. When

you lose them, they're gone. Huh?

SAM: We're trying to decide whether we went left
or right up the stairs.

TALIESIN: We went right.

MATT: Okay. You spiral upward and upward and
upward, climbing an extremely long period of time.

Your legs begin to ache a little bit. Then
another floor opens up. It appears the tower is

now divided into two chambers. From the bottom
floor up, it's now two sides to a tower and you're

on the right side. The hallway curves around the
outer edge of the tower. On the opposite side, you

can see the staircase continues upward. The
interior of this chamber appears to be an

incredible arcane laboratory, occupying the center
space of the tower inside. You see six overlapping

circles of dulled runes and glyphs that encompass
the entire 30-foot walkway between here and the

stairs. Shelves and tables of countless glass
tubes and metallic vices lay out across tables,

organized in a near-OCD pattern. Tomes and books
line the inner chamber walls. What do you guys do?

LIAM: I use Divine Sense and feel for undead. 60
feet.

MATT: You sense around. No undead in the 60-foot
radius.

LAURA: Does this feel like it might be Delilah's
room? Her chamber?

MATT: You don't know.

TALIESIN: From where I am, can I recognize any of
the book titles? Any of it?

MATT: From where you are now? You can't even see.
It's too far away.

LAURA: Is there any traps in this room?

MATT: You can check for traps.

LIAM: Fan out.

JOE: Can you sense Vecna?

TALIESIN: Yes. If Vecna moves, we will know.

LAURA: What is that? Investigation?

MATT: Investigation.

LIAM: 24 for me.

LAURA: 14 for me.

MATT: Okay. I mean, there's symbols across the
ground here, but they seem pretty inert. Three of

the circles in the center of the chamber appear to
be ready to trigger. By proximity. A five-foot

proximity.

LIAM: Where's the exit to this room?

MATT: It's across the way, around the outside of
the tower wall, so you can follow along.

LIAM: We can go around the edge.

MATT: Most of you can. It's a very tight walk to
get through. You have a few large individuals.

LIAM: What's making that so tight? Is there one
trap that's making it so tight, or all of them?

MATT: There are three large circles that overlap
with each other that are triggerable, and then

there are three inert ones that overlap. It's like
a series of Venn diagrams.

LIAM: Did they seem arcane in nature?

MATT: Yes, they do.

LIAM: Do I have a shot in hell? Of disarming
them?

TRAVIS: I take out the Immovable Rod and have it
in my hand.

MATT: Okay. Make an intelligence check.

LIAM: Natural 20.

MATT: These traps are far beyond your
understanding to disable.

LIAM: Okay, okay.

MATT: You glance at these and go, "Oh, this is
bad."

TRAVIS: We would need Dispels.

LAURA: What if we go-- no, the people that are
small go around. I'll bamf Trinket out on one

side, put Grog in, go back, put Arkhan in, go
back? We work our way around the runes.

SAM: What about the zombies?

LAURA: The zombies are little. They can work their
way around.

SAM: No no, his slave zombies.

TALIESIN: They're little.

TRAVIS: His dead brother, and--

JOE: Aw man, I wasn't thinking about it until you
brought it up again! Like, I was actually in an

okay place!

TRAVIS: I'm sorry, I thought, you know-- Got to
pay respect.

LAURA: Are you guys okay with this plan?

LIAM: (Marlon Brando voice) I could've been
somebody, Arkhan. Instead of a zombie. Because I am.

JOE: (Marlon Brando voice) Vander, pick up the
mic, boy, and hit me in the head with it.

MATT: I need everybody except for Arkhan and Grog
to go ahead and make a general dexterity check.

LAURA: Oh, fuck. I thought we would be able to
avoid it. Natural 20!

TALIESIN: 24.

MATT: Okay.

SAM: Scanlan Two is okay. He made a 17. Scanlan
One had a one.

MATT: Okay. So. What'd you get?

MARISHA: Oh, I had to roll?

MATT: Everybody except for Arkhan and--

MARISHA: Oh, everyone but for them! Dex save.

LIAM: Oh, who's near me? Could I retcon and say
that I'm--

MATT: Dexterity check. You add your dexterity
modifier.

LIAM: What did you get? You got a natural one?

MATT: Scanlan did, yeah.

LIAM: If I'm next to him, because I give plus two
to saves, does that futz with it?

MATT: It's not an ability check, it's a saving
throw. One is an auto-fail for a saving throw.

JOE: They weren't within ten feet of me, were
they?

MATT: No, next would have been partially across.
Because you couldn't get across, you're too wide.

JOE: Fair enough.

MARISHA: 13.

MATT: Okay, that's fine. And you got? A four?
Okay. So. As you guys are moving across, Scanlan

and Pike, you both are clustered next to each
other. Unfortunately, Pike begins to wobble. You

reach to grab her and pull her in, but the armored
weight is too strong and you both accidentally

step out of place. At which point, the glyph to
your left suddenly flares. You watch as, in a

flash of sudden arcane energy, a cage of
force-like power encompasses the both of you in a

cube. You see these bars of crackling energy
(lighting crackle) around. You're both currently

stuck within this arcane entrapment. The gnomes.

LAURA: Can Scanlan Two dispel that shit?

SAM: I don't know Dispel Magic.

MARISHA: Can you Dimension Door?

SAM: Good question. If only the person in here
with me was also of gnome size. Oh wait! She is.

We'll Dimension Door out.

LIAM: Do we want to try to get everyone else
across before you do that? Maybe it's a

one-time-only?

LAURA: Everybody else went already.

MATT: Well, they're currently blocking the path,
now, with this cage.

LIAM: Oh, okay. Well, I meant the necklace, but.

SAM: I don't know how this spell works. I hope it
works. We might get hit on the way out.

MATT: Okay. As you clasp Pike and complete the
incantation, I need you to make a charisma saving throw.

TRAVIS: Come on, buddy! Come on! Come on!

SAM: A charisma save? Is this magic?

MATT: It is.

SAM: Okay. 20.

MATT: 20? 20 will do it.

SAM: I've never had to make a charisma saving
throw before.

TALIESIN: You got very high.

MATT: So. As you grab her and you both begin to
transport outside of the cage, you feel the force

of it push back, but the nature of your innate
magical ability manages to puncture through that

threshold and then both of you reappear at the
opposite side, no worse for wear. The cage is

still present, though, and it's now blocking the
path across.

The rest of you get across fine. It's the gnomes that
got stuck, and now the two of you are

on the opposite end. You have 30 feet between you
and the opposite side, and that walkway

is entirely closed off.

JOE: We can do this.

TRAVIS: Yeah. I'm not worried one bit.

SAM: Wait, did you switch your boots?

TRAVIS: I did!

LAURA: You can Spider Climb to the ceiling!

TRAVIS: Do you want to Cirque du Soleil this
thing? We'll hold arms and I'll walk on the

ceiling?

SAM: Two shirtless, hunky dudes holding each
other?! In crazy poses?

LIAM: Definitely take your armor off for this,
though. Definitely.

MARISHA: Not for any particular reason.

TALIESIN: We still have the pot. You could get
some oil and really make this work.

JOE: My answer to your question was-- Cut to.

TRAVIS: Yeah, I will walk up on the wall so that
I'm sticking out.

TALIESIN: That's a lot of powerful--

JOE: Oh, I have four fingers.

MATT: Okay. The force cage encompasses too much of
the wall space to go sideways, so you'll have to

go across the ceiling.

TRAVIS: Because I was inverted, bullshit. Top
Gun? Thank you.

MATT: As you climb the top and you pull, Arkhan,
you tuck your feet up underneath.

TRAVIS: Treat me like your fucking dragons--
French girl, whatever.

LIAM: Paint me like one of your chromatic girls.

JOE: You like volleyball, bro? Just thinking, if
we make it out of here, we should play some beach

volleyball some time.

TRAVIS: Hand wraps, get some aviators? It'd be
totally cool.

MATT: Could you both please make athletics checks
for me?

TRAVIS: I'm still raging.

MATT: Yeah, you've been raging this whole time.
You're the most intense spotter right now.

JOE: This is an athletics check?

MATT: Yes.

JOE: 22.

TRAVIS: 25.

MATT: Step by step, you carry the heavy, armored,
red-scaled dragonborn across the threshold of the

chamber. You release him and both safely come to
the opposite side of the laboratory.

LAURA: Good job, guys.

LIAM: Is it hot in here?

TRAVIS: Not a problem. What happened to you guys?

JOE: Did you guys see that?

SAM: Yes. We did.

MATT: You continue up the stairs?

ALL: Yes.

LIAM: Point of order. I know roughly how far Vecna
is, right? So I should be able to tell, as we're

getting closer, roughly how much distance? Halfway
up the tower, three quarters, et cetera?

MATT: You guys are, based on far you've climbed,
you're about halfway up the tower.

TALIESIN: I would like to do one thing before we
leave the room. I would like to take something,

set it on fire, and toss it on those books over
there.

LIAM: Oh, that's dark.

LAURA: Nice.

MARISHA: We're holding on our Freedom of Movement,
right? We decided that? Until we get higher?

LIAM: How long did it take us to get to this
point?

MATT: I'd say a little over ten minutes or so of
continuous climbing.

LIAM: Who knows what is above us. It could be
slower for the upper half.

SAM: Fire stays where it is, typically. It doesn't
move up.

LAURA: We're fine. I like it.

TALIESIN: There's nothing else to catch fire in
here. It'll be nice.

TRAVIS: Is there anything else to catch fire that
would travel upward toward us as we're climbing a

towering inferno?

MATT: It's a stone chamber.

SAM: Full of chemicals.

TALIESIN: It'll be noxious, but brief. I take a
torch. I actually have one last Whitestone seal

that's flash-powdered. Wrap it, light it, and toss
it on the counter.

MATT: Okay. It clatters and the torch burns. The
powder (flaring).

TALIESIN: That'll do. Walk away.

MATT: You guys continue up the next set of spiral
stairs, climbing higher and higher up Entropis.

You can see, every now and then, one of the
various vein-like cracks of energy that's holding

the tower together. You can glance out and see,
very obscured, movement in the distance. It's too

fractured; too much diffraction.

Continuing upward, you come to a second, or
another, floor. About four minutes of climbing.

This next half-chamber, you see dozens of sets of
chains and manacles affixed to the walls, where

tortured corpses are currently dangling from them,
left in pieces. The scent is terrible. Decay is strong.

LIAM: I cast Divine Sense. Undead.

MATT: No undead.

LIAM: Traps?

MATT: Go ahead and make an investigation check.

LIAM: 18.

MATT: Okay. No traps in this chamber.

TALIESIN: Do we recognize any of the corpses?

MATT: Make a perception check.

TALIESIN: I had to do it. Natural 20.

MARISHA: Oh no!

TALIESIN: I get to know. The rest of you don't get
to know.

MATT: Most of the corpses around here have been
mutilated to the point where it's hard to even

recognize. This was essentially a torture chamber.
This was a gathering information, this was a

point-making chamber. The ones you do see around
here, nothing catches your eye. One does seem

familiar. You look and see, and it's been a while,
but you remember the face of a Scalebearer Desona,

who traveled across the Ozmit Sea with you aboard
a skyship. Glancing around, the bodies appear to

have been cleaned of any useful items. This is
mainly a for-utility-and-fun chamber.

TRAVIS: Any weapons or items besides the chains
and manacles on the floor?

MATT: The room is clean.

LIAM: How far above us is Vecna?

MATT: About 120 feet.

LAURA: We should cast it now. We should do all of
our casting.

MARISHA: Okay.

LAURA: Now I invoke the Blessing of the
Dawnfather.

TRAVIS: Call it out.

MARISHA: I'm waiting for Pike.

ASHLEY: Let's do it.

MATT: Okay. Doing a round of what spells to who?

MARISHA: Freedom of Movement to Scanlan One,
myself, Vax.

MATT: So only three Freedoms of Movement?

SAM: That's all she has, right?

MARISHA: That's all I've got. From Keyleth.

MATT: From Keyleth, right. And then, Pike?

ASHLEY: Freedom of Movement on Vex, Grog, and
Pike.

LIAM: I'm putting the wings out now.

MATT: The raven wings emerge. Pike? You said you
were doing Death Ward?

LAURA: Oh yeah, she did it on Scanlan.

ASHLEY: Death Ward at a 5th-level.

MATT: Okay, so 5th slot's taken.

SAM: Scanlan will invoke the Blessing of the
Knowing Mistress.

MATT: You watch as the forehead space, where once
you had seen the briefly visible third eye of

Ioun, now emblazoned like a lantern light, this
bright purple eye. In that moment, you watch as

Scanlan's pupils turn to silver.

LAURA: Whoa! Are you still you?

SAM: I can't see anything! Everything's silver! Oh
god, I'm blind! I'm just kidding. I can see fine.

TALIESIN: I charge Diplomacy up.

ASHLEY: And I will invoke the Blessing of the
Everlight.

MATT: And with that, you watch as this bright
light emerges from the back of Pike's shoulders as

a familiar, but much more vibrant and strong set
of divine golden wings, not made of energy, but

visibly beautiful gold feathered wings expand from
her back. Your feet lift off the ground and

(whooshing). As the voice of Sarenrae whispers
into her ear, "I'm with you."

ASHLEY: (squealing) Okay! Thank you!

LAURA: I bamf Trinket out.

MATT: (bear noises)

LAURA: If you want to Polymorph him?

SAM: Now's the time? Polymorph only lasts-- is it
an hour or ten minutes? I've got to learn this.

MATT: Polymorph, I think, is an hour with
concentration. Could be wrong, but I think it is.

Do note, you still have another series of
staircases that are pretty tight.

LAURA: Okay, we should go up. We should keep
going.

LIAM: Also, I'm going to say this now, in advance.
It might not be possible, but if we get to a door,

I'm thinking ahead of time, if we think we're
about to step out, I want to cast Bless on the

three half-elves right before going out. That
might not be possible, but it's in my head to do it.

MATT: Okay, good to keep in mind.

JOE: We should send Delilah in first.

SAM: Yeah, sure.

MARISHA: That's actually a good idea.

SAM: Scanlan Two is going to dump a 3rd-level
spell into the Tome of Isolation to reveal the

hidden text. Is it only revealed to Scanlan Two,
or is it revealed to everyone?

MATT: Let me see the item again. Well, the text
remains for an hour, yep.

LIAM: You're blessed. If it happens, hashtag
blessed, a d4 rolled for every attack or saving throw.

MATT: Once the text is revealed, technically,
anybody with any sort of penchant for arcane

knowledge could attempt it, but you have the best
chance.

LAURA: So you don't need to do that.

SAM: No, I do need to, to reveal the text. It's
hidden otherwise.

MATT: Correct, but the text is revealed for an
hour. If, in theory, you were to fall, and the

book could be found--

TRAVIS: I got it. I'll pick it up and start
reading.

MATT: Yep. It's more difficult, but it's
possible.

SAM: I have a book I need to read.

MARISHA: It's possible, but (uncertain noise)? Is
what his face was?

MATT: Because he was the chosen of Ioun, he can
read without issue, but the text itself is still

very arcane in nature.

LAURA: He's the only one that can finish the
sealing.

MARISHA: Right. Then Keyleth turns to Vax:
Whatever happens, lest it be trite, stay with us.

Casts Guidance for the next minute, which gives
you 1d4 on ability checks.

LAURA: Right before we go out, you mean?

MARISHA: Yeah, before we move. Just for the start
of it.

MATT: You guys begin to climb up the next
staircase? All right. You're beginning to spiral

up the next length of it. You get about 80 or so
feet up before-- are you leading this charge

visibly?

TRAVIS: Actually, Delilah is.

MATT: You're sending Delilah ahead of you?

LAURA: When we get up to the top.

MATT: As you're coursing around the edge, the
stairs stop into another chamber. The chamber

levels off.

LIAM: Up so that we're seeing the edge of steps at
the top? All right, I'm stealthing.

MATT: Okay, make a stealth check.

JOE: Very quickly, Grog, give me another longsword
for zombie Vander.

TRAVIS: Last one I have. You got it.

LIAM: Are we Pass Without a Trace right now? 44.

MATT: 44? So you stealth up around the edge and
you see now, where once it was divided into two

chambers, it now seems the chambers converged once
more into a single room. It's not very big, and

the tower's been slowly tapering the higher up you
go. The room is fairly empty. You see a few vases

in the corners and some basic ancient decor.
Standing, not noticing you're there, you see three

figures in full dark armor. Similar to who you
fought in the ziggurat, or the one who was

guarding the tunnel that led up into Thar
Amphala.

LIAM: They don't look like the big kahuna, they
look like the underlings?

MATT: The underlings. You see them in the same
dark, horned armor. There's one that's humanoid

sized and one that looks to be halfling size. Or
two of them, halfling size.

LIAM: From my hidden position, I want to see if I
see any traps in the room.

MATT: Make an investigation check for the
immediate entry.

LIAM: I'm not entering. I want to do it from my
peeky spot.

MATT: For the immediate entry for what you can
see. You can't investigate from across the room.

TRAVIS: They're facing away from us?

MATT: They're not facing away, but they don't seem
to acknowledge his presence yet. They don't see him.

LIAM: Yeah. 23 for investigation.

MATT: You don't see any traps in the immediate
vicinity of the room.

LIAM: So what I'm going to do is slowly back down
to the party, relate what I just saw. Three of

them. What do we do?

SAM: Standard undead?

LAURA: No, they're death knights.

MATT: They're not death knights.

LIAM: They're dudes in armor. They're lackeys.

TALIESIN: Are they humans or undead?

MATT: Can't tell. Fully armored.

JOE: How far up the stairs?

MATT: From where you guys are right now, they're
about 30 feet around the way and then ten feet

into the chamber.

JOE: I'll Divine Sense, which is up to 60 feet.
Are they fiends, celestial, or undead?

MATT: Nope.

JOE: It looks like they're human.

LIAM: Is it difficult to use that silenced weapon
of yours?

TALIESIN: Once I use it, I've got ten minutes of
silence. I was curious that if I get close enough

to Vecna, he can't talk. I was hoping to save
that, because that might be a thing where we can

keep him from casting vocal spells.

MARISHA: Can we stealth around them and not fight
them at all?

LIAM: It's a small room. You and I can probably
handle two, but that leaves a third.

MATT: You see one staircase, one final staircase,
that winds around the corner. Actually, you

haven't seen it yet.

TRAVIS: There's no chance you could remove the
stone from the middle of the floor and have them fall?

MARISHA: That's what I was looking for. Can
Keyleth take a peek and see what's up?

MATT: Make a stealth check.

MARISHA: Yeah.

TALIESIN: Plus ten.

MARISHA: Do you still have that?

LIAM: Yeah.

MARISHA: Dope. That's real good. 39.

MATT: 39? As you curl around the edge and glance
inside, you recognize this chamber. When you

scried in here previously, this was the chamber
that was being left by the death knight as he

ascended to the top of the tower. This is the last
stop.

MARISHA: (inarticulate yelling) Okay.

LAURA: Can you open up the floor underneath them?

MARISHA: Does it look like the floor opens?

MATT: It doesn't look like it's a trap door or
anything.

LAURA: It's stone. Could you open the floor and
let them fall?

LIAM: Could Stubby and I each target one and you
yank one into the ground simultaneously? Can you

do that right now?

SAM: I could hold one.

TALIESIN: Let's have you two take some out and
send the big guys in.

MARISHA: It's worked stone.

MATT: It's all worked stone. It's all very
carved.

SAM: I could hold one. Paralyze one of them.

TRAVIS: If we don't think the room or the setup
will fuck us up, the big boys can go in and

probably handle it. Or we can follow your
attacks.

LIAM: We don't want to create a stir. We might, so
it's better that we do two quietly and leave one

left. Can you throw your fucking Manners ball at
the third?

TALIESIN: It's better against weaker opponents.

LAURA: It's a thin staircase. Three people won't
be able to attack at once.

TALIESIN: I'll have ten minutes of silence.

MATT: Two at most would be able to strike at
once.

LAURA: So you and me go up, sneak attack, fall
back and let somebody run in and take it out. Yeah?

LIAM: Yeah, so who's going in?

MATT: You have the taller one in the center and
the two smaller ones flanking.

LAURA: We'll take the smaller ones.

TRAVIS: I would send in the dragonborn, because
they're all alive.

JOE: Yeah.

LAURA: Get ready to fight once we take the two
out.

LIAM: Tell me again, the three that are in this
room?

MATT: There's a human-sized one in the center and
two halfling-sized ones on either side.

TRAVIS: Jocks Machina does not get hazed.

JOE: Stop bullying Jocks Machina!

LIAM: Arkhan, we're going to handle the small.
Right after, you'll handle the tall.

JOE: Sounds good to me.

LAURA: We sneak up. Is it auto-crit if it's a
sneak attack?

MATT: If they're surprised.

LAURA: Okay, are they surprised?

LIAM: I stealthed. You have to stealth, right?

MATT: You have to stealth.

LAURA: Okay, 29.

LIAM: I will go a split second before my sister.

MATT: Both of you guys curl up to the edge and you
see the three of them. What are you doing?

LAURA: We're attacking the two smallest.

LIAM: Throwing on the right, throwing on the
left.

MATT: You're attacking the one on the right, and
you're the one on the left. Go ahead and roll your

attacks.

LAURA: Is it auto-crit?

MATT: If it hits, it's an auto-crit, but you have
advantage on the attack because they don't know

you're there.

LAURA: Oh, that's good. 30 on the first hit.

MATT: That hits.

LIAM: They all hit. That's good. Four.

LAURA: Oh my god, I rolled four sixes! And a
five.

LIAM: I'm doing okay, too.

LAURA: 29 times two is what?

SAM: Both of you guys got big damage.

JOE: What is it? 29 times two?

MATT: That's 58.

LAURA: 58 plus eight, so 64. 66!

LIAM: 80 for the first.

LAURA: That's the first attack.

MATT: All right, so a second attack for each of
you.

LAURA: 19.

MATT: That hits.

LIAM: 12 for my second.

MATT: Does not hit.

LIAM: No, they all hit. All my attacks hit. 12
damage for the second.

MATT: Okay, what's the damage on the second one?

LAURA: 18 on the second.

MATT: Both of the armored ones on the side take
the hit and crumple, fall back, helmet falling

off. Unconscious.

LAURA: I immediately move to the side so he can
run through.

JOE: So the guy turns around? And I'm-- (whoosh)

MATT: They're still in the center of the chamber.
They're about 15 feet from the top of the stairs.

The two of you are going to rush in? Arkhan, you
rush in towards the one in the center, go for it.

SAM: Unleash everything.

JOE: I don't think I can reach. I don't think I'm
in range. Did you see that?

MATT: So what'd you roll?

SAM: Right as he runs, Scanlan says: Don't fuck
this up!

MATT: As they both drop, you rush up to the one in
the metal armor, who doesn't react to your

arrival, stands there staring at you as you rush
forward and swing. You hit the armor, but you hit

the edge of the blade, cleaves off doing no
impact.

LAURA: Does he move?

JOE: That's attack one. Okay, that's a 21.

MATT: 21 hits.

TALIESIN: That looked bad from this angle. Yeah, I
see it now! Holy cow.

JOE: He's not undead. He's not undead, is he?

MATT: He's not undead, nope.

JOE: Okay. Well, this is going to be weird, then.
Oh, that's not bad. That's 28.

MATT: 28, all right. You hack and the axe slides
into the front of the breast plate and as you pull

back, you see a gout of blood. He takes it not
reacting.

JOE: Just stands there?

TALIESIN: Maybe we shouldn't kill all of--

JOE: I would like to bonus action.

MATT: Okay.

JOE: No, I wouldn't. I'm not--

LAURA: Why isn't he moving? Does he have a helmet
on?

MATT: Yeah. The one standing has a helmet and the
two that fell, their helmets tumbled off as they

impacted and fell back.

ASHLEY: What do they look like up there when their
helmets came off?

LAURA: Oh no! Were they our friends?

JOE: What friends?

LAURA: Pull the helmet off. Arkhan, pull the
helmet off!

JOE: I pull the helmet off.

MATT: You pull the helmet off and you watch
immediately a bit of black, fuzzy facial hair from

underneath. As you reveal, you see darkened skin
and long black hair with a bit of colored makeup

under the eyes and a metal band across the
forehead, looking ahead, unmoving, unflinching,

locked in place staring past you.

LAURA: Is it Gilmore?

MATT: You glance up, and it's Gilmore standing in
the middle of the room.

LAURA: We killed the two--

TRAVIS: No, we don't know anything yet.

JOE: I command zombie Delilah and zombie Vander to
go to the heads and take the helmets off the two

heads on the ground.

MATT: The helmets are partially off, so it's easy
enough to slip the helms off. To the left, it was

less of a halfling and more of a younger girl.
Jammed into the armor and a little taller than the

other, you can see brown hair with a shock of
white in it currently laying back, unmoving and

bleeding out. The other one looks to be
specifically gnomish, short brown hair and eyes

wide on the ground.

SAM: (high-pitched) Is that my girl? Is that my
baby girl?

ASHLEY: I think it's an illusion. I'm hoping. I
don't know. I feel this can't be real.

SAM: It's my baby girl--

ASHLEY: I'm going in. Can I stand over one of the
bodies and do a perception check? A medicine check?

MATT: Make a medicine check.

TRAVIS: No, there's no way.

ASHLEY: 23.

MATT: 23? They're not illusions, and they are both
dead.

JOE: I cut the head off of the one in the middle.

LAURA: No, don't do it! Arkhan, don't!

ASHLEY: No! I stand in front of him and say: no!
Please don't!

MATT: They still have the bands. Each one of them
has this strange brass band across the head.

ASHLEY: I take my mace, and I slowly try to take
one of the bands off.

MATT: You take it off the head of one of the two
dead?

ASHLEY: Yeah, but not touching it, scraping it
off.

MATT: It slides off.

ASHLEY: Does anything happen?

LAURA: Can we cast Revivify on them?

TRAVIS: Don't do that.

SAM: Yeah, do that.

LAURA: Who is it? Who are they for sure?

MATT: It is Kaylie and Cassandra.

LAURA: It's Kaylie and Cassandra?

SAM: Revivify them. Take the bands off and
Revivify them.

TALIESIN: What is the band, before we do
anything?

SAM: Take it off of Gilmore. He's still alive.

TALIESIN: This may kill him.

MATT: No, she took it off one of the front.

ASHLEY: Does Gilmore look like he's still alive?

MATT: He's wounded, but he's still alive and
staring forward.

ASHLEY: I'll do the same thing.

MATT: You pull the band off, and the eyes flicker
for a second. (panting) "What happened? Where am

"I? How--"

JOE: I pull the axe back.

MATT: "What happened?"

MARISHA: He doesn't know.

SAM: Save her. Right now.

JOE: I put my hand up over his mouth.

TALIESIN: Take them.

ASHLEY: It's okay.

MATT: He looks down.

ASHLEY: I stand over Kaylie and I cast Revivify.

MATT: You see the eyes lull back, the stillness of
the body as you finish touching the body a warm

burst. (gasps) Breath comes back to her and she
starts coughing. Sits up and leans over, gasping.

SAM: I go, grab her, and hold her.

ASHLEY: I stand over Cassandra and I cast
Revivify.

SAM: These are big spells, aren't they?

MATT: As you reach out and touch her chest, the
brief moment of stillness leads as her eyes slowly

blink back, and begins breathing again.

TRAVIS: This is some Seven shit right here.

LAURA: That is so fucked up!

SAM: Shaun. Can you get them out of here?

MATT: "Yes, I--"

LAURA: How did you get here? Is it really you?

LIAM: Do you remember anything, Shaun?

MARISHA: Anything that can help us?

MATT: "I was in my workshop, and there was a flash
of light. A doorway opened, and it pulled me

"through and--"

LAURA: Can I roll an insight check and see if it's
him?

MATT: Roll an insight check.

LIAM: I'm taking him by the cheeks. You're in a
very bad place. You're in a very bad place and

time. You need to get out of here. You need to
take these women and go downstairs and hide.

LAURA: 21.

MATT: 21? It's Shaun Gilmore.

LIAM: You are in no shape to do anything right
now. You need to take these two women and hide

downstairs. Do you hear me?

MATT: "Where are we? What's going on?"

LIAM: There's no time to explain.

MARISHA: We're in the tower of Entropis. We're on
the back of a titan. Try to get them as far away

from here as possible. Vasselheim is an hour
away.

LAURA: Or you can fight with us.

LIAM: No. His head is not where it needs to be.

MATT: "Wait. So if we're in-- We're near
Vasselheim? What's Entropis?"

MARISHA: No, we're in Thar Amphala. It's been
teleported to the back of a titan, which is a

giant mountain, which is what we're on. It's from
the Shadowfell. You just have to get away!

LAURA: We're 15 feet below Vecna. He's right above
us.

MATT: "Then what are you going to do?"

LAURA: We're going to fight him.

MARISHA: And you're going to go away.

LIAM: In 30 minutes, we could all be dead. But if
we have any chance-- You three need to not be

here. You need to go down now.

MATT: "I can get the three of us away. I can
teleport us. It's the maximum of what I can do."

MARISHA: J'mon Sa Ord is here, the Slayer's Take
has probably been vastly compromised. Just get out

of here. Get to the woods. Scanlan's right.

MATT: "I can probably take us back to Emon. Why
even stay here?"

MARISHA: Then go! Go!

MATT: "I'll do that. You're going to fight this
Vecna?"

TALIESIN: I hate to even ask, but is there
anything you can do and still--?

MATT: "If we make it quick."

TRAVIS: I'd almost rather him stay and fight.

SAM: No! He's got to get them away. They're at one
hit point each!

MATT: "If you can make this quick, I can leave you
with some intense adrenaline, my friend."

TRAVIS: Me?

MATT: "Yes."

TRAVIS: I'm a fan of adrenaline.

MATT: He looks around to the blood on the floor
and the two barely living women at his side and

says, "If the one you're going to fight is the one
that did this to me and them... Leave a scar in my

"name, if you don't mind. When it's done, maybe
carve a unicorn."

TRAVIS: With pleasure.

MATT: You begin to hear heavy footsteps coming up
the stairs behind you, heavy footfalls, and a

number of other footsteps heading up the tower
behind you. He goes and grabs the bodies close.

Glancing around you, up the stairway you see
emerging the death knight who joined you in the

fight against Vecna.

SAM: I grab Kaylie by the face and I say to her:
Goodbye.

MATT: The one that met you at the top of the tower
last time you fought Vecna emerges, looks across,

and begins to go for the blade.

JOE: I go straight for him.

MATT: You go straight for him?

JOE: With the death knight? Straight for him.

MATT: Gilmore reaches out to you and casts Haste
on you.

TRAVIS: Haste?!

(gasps)

MATT: "But it lasts a minute. Hurry!"

MARISHA: I hate to say this but Arkhan do you have
him?

JOE: Get upstairs! I'll hold him off!

MARISHA: Let's go!

LIAM: Bless. Shaun! It was an honor knowing you.

MATT: "It will be an honor knowing you all still."
Grabbing on to both of the girls and with a flash

of light, the three of them vanish. The death
knight has turned to reach out and goes to cast

something. Arkhan rushes up and slams the axe
across his arm, knocking it aside. You can see

now, behind them, other cultists and other things
begin to head up the stairs. But they're currently

being choked at this point where the death
knight's being held at the stairway where Arkhan

is stepping there.

JOE: Zombies are grabbing for his arms.

MATT: As Arkhan holds off, you guys head up
towards the top of the tower. That's where we're

going to pick up next week.

(screaming)

TRAVIS: What did you do?! You Kevin Spacey from
Seven mother fucker! What did you do?

MATT: When you revealed to a god how close and
dangerous you were last game, there were going to

be repercussions.

TRAVIS: (terrified laughter) Oh my god!

MATT: And he knows how to get to you. He knows
your secrets.

LIAM: This is a great game!

JOE: This is the most fun I've ever had!

(laughter)

MATT: I love you guys. We'll pick this up next
week for what will most likely be the final

battle.

SAM: Ashley, can you pipe in?

ASHLEY: I don't know yet. I don't know the
schedule.

MATT: If any of you are watching are from
Blindspot, find a way to not have her work

Thursday evening, please. That went a little
longer than we anticipated, but we're at the end

of the campaign.

LIAM: Joe Manganiello!

(cheering)

JOE: Jocks. We're here. Get used to it.

(laughter)

JOE: Thank you so much for having me.

MATT: Of course! Thanks for coming.

TALIESIN: I've been looking forward to this.

TRAVIS: You're welcome! Any time.

JOE: Tiamat: she ain't so bad.

MATT: Well, she's pretty fucking bad. But when
your goals are aligned, it can be useful. Well

guys, thank you for joining us for this extended
episode leading into the final fray of the

campaign. I'm so excited for next week.

TALIESIN: Everything's downhill from here. It'll
be super easy.

TRAVIS: You've got surprises and then you've got
that shit.

LIAM: That was fucked up.

TALIESIN: I was feeling weird about it.

JOE: I was going to cut his head off. I thought he
was some kind of sentinel. He was seeing through

his eyes or whatever. I was about to chop his head
off.

TRAVIS: Thank god you rolled a one.

JOE: That was the luckiest one.

MATT: That was a lucky fucking one, dude!

LIAM: Next campaign, we don't attack anybody! We
talk to everybody! Every NPC, every hot dog

vender, every lich! Talk!

MATT: That was a fucked-up tactic is what it was.

LIAM: Fucked up! You managed in the space of a
week to make the choke-out seem like child's play!

TALIESIN: You are a monster.

MATT: Vecna is a monster, guys.

TALIESIN: I'm so proud.

JOE: My undead brother I'm dragging around with
me! This is fucking so fucked up!

(laughter)

MATT: Well, thank you guys, hope you had a good
time. We'll see you guys next week. Have a

wonderful night, and is it Thursday yet? Bye!

MARISHA: Congrats to our t-shirt winners!

[music]