MATT: We've just returned from the chaos of Gen
Con, which was awesome, and we're all still

recovering from that chaos. It was a very
high-energy weekend. We got to meet a lot of you

guys out there. Didn't get to meet enough of you.
There's only so much time in the weekend, and

those that we didn't, we'll hopefully get a chance
to meet you at a future event. The live show went

really well. We hope people who were there enjoyed
it.

Let's see. We have Laura and Travis coming in hot
right now. They'll be here as soon as they can. In

the interim, couple announcements, couple fun
things. One, there will not be a standard episode

of Critical Role next week because me, Taliesin,
Marisha, Laura, and Travis will be off in the

desert somewhere. Instead, there will be a
one-shot being run by none other than the

wonderful, illustrious, talented Sam Riegel. His
first game of any roleplaying game

he's ever DMed before.

SAM: I was just learning how to DM from Matt about
a minute ago! And I think I know.

MATT: I think you've got this. You want to talk
about any of the people who will be playing with you?

SAM: Sure! My players that I will be controlling--
that's how it works, right, Matt? My players will

be the talented and charming Liam O'Brien: dagger,
dagger, dagger, dagger, dagger; the charming and

cabbage-smelling Brian Foster; friend of the show
and charming everything, Mary Elizabeth McGlynn;

young Ashly Burch, pulling some shit out of her
ass, I'm sure, which is going to be awesome; and

then a player we have not played with yet. He's a
lovely voice actor and a talented man: Eric Bauza.

Look him up on IMDB. He's the voice of
everything.

LIAM: Bauza is funny as fuck.

SAM: He has never played Dungeons and Dragons
before.

MATT: I'm legitimately sad that we're gone next
week. Just so we can't be in the wings, to watch

it in person.

MARISHA: We'll have a lot of road time to watch it
on the way back.

LIAM: With Bauza at the table, any celebrity could
show up. He can impersonate anybody. Anybody.

MATT: He has about five or six years before he
becomes the voiceover industry. The living

embodiment of it. Absorbs us like end of Akira. So
that's going to be fun. Look forward to that next

week. Let's see, what else?

SAM: Merch, Laura-- oh.

LIAM: Oh, there's some stuff in the store!

MARISHA: Oh man! So many good things!

LIAM: Okay, go to Geek and Sundry's dot com,
whatever the store is!

MATT: You're going to get the shit beat out of
you. She's watching it right now.

TALIESIN: Oh. Well, then you're in trouble.

SAM: Is there a book update? Is there a sticker
update? Is there a shirt update?

MARISHA: There is a sticker update. We found them.
The mail has found them from where USPS quite

literally lost them. I think the distributor found
them and now they're bringing some back to the

distributor so they can be sent back to us, and
then we will be dropping those in the mail.

MATT: We'll be giving those to everyone who was
there at Gen Con and signed up. Whatever's left

over, we'll get announcements up as to how we can
get those to some folks, as well. We've got a

process on that one. The Tal'Dorei Campaign Guide
went well, apparently, at Gen Con. People seemed

to like it. I hope you like it. I know they're
pushing hard to get those orders out, all

pre-orders, by mid- to late-September. So follow
@GreenRoninPub at Twitter for any updates on when

those'll be going out. Thank you very much.

LIAM: We should probably re-announce the art book
that we're making. There's an art book that's

happening. It's going to hit in the fall, at some
point. It's amazing. We've seen it. We've held an

approximation of it.

MATT: We've all sobbed silently as we've looked
through it.

LIAM: It's beautiful.

MATT: It's the phenomenal celebration of
everything that you guys have put together around

this game and I'm so excited for you guys to see
it.

MARISHA: It feels like a time capsule, but in a
book.

LIAM: And as long as we're vamping, I've seen some
of that comic book, man. It's looking good. It's

under the table in my bag. It looks so good.

MATT: Our buddy Mr. Colville's done a fine job.
Olivia's done an amazing job, as well. Everyone

involved has been great.

MARISHA: It's so cute. We love it.

SAM: I think we've stalled all we can stall,
right? By the way, the reason Travis and Laura are

not here is because we all brought our dice and
our little character sheets to Indianapolis, and

they left theirs at home, so they drove home to go
get it.

MARISHA: Yeah. Because you need a character sheet.
It's important when you've crawled into a

mountain's butt.

MATT: Yeah. That's what the name of this module is
going to be: Crawling into the Mountain's Butt.

Gygax would be proud.

LIAM: We're behind his meniscus, right? Aren't we
in his knee?

MATT: Hip joint.

LIAM: Oh, real close to the butt, yeah!

MARISHA: Right in that sciatic nerve.

MATT: Bringing it into territory I'm very familiar
with right now.

MARISHA: Can we do that? Can we find pressure
points and take him down with acupressure?

MATT: That's up to you guys. Oh, and for next
week, for Talks, I believe you're doing a special

Talks Machina?

LIAM: We're doing something. We're going to fuck
around.

SAM: I don't actually know. I'm laser-focused on
my shitty one-shot.

LIAM: Brian and I are chatting about it. You'll be
naked.

MARISHA: Thanks for tanking the week for us.

SAM: We're also doing Wednesday Club, me and Liam.
We're going to be talking about my favorite book, Hellboy.

LIAM: I'm going to be bringing in a bag of Bazooka Joe
comics, from the gum.

MARISHA: Oh, I have something I can stall time
with. For those who didn't catch the debut episode

of One Night Only, it was awesome. We talked about
Sagas of Sundry: Dread. We dressed up. We made it

an event. One Night Only is our special event
series that we are attempting to do monthly, is

the goal. Where we bring you people from your
favorite fandom in entertainment and pop culture

and get to ask questions with them, panel-style.
Inside the Actors Studio style.

SAM: Are you James Lipton in this equation?

MARISHA: Well, it was Darin De Paul this past
week. We're going to switch it up, depending on

what the subject matter is. I really want to do a
JPL One Night Only, where we bring all the smart

scientist dudes from NASA.

LIAM: I'm sure there are Critters in Space-X.

MARISHA: And then for those who missed it, we
announced at the end of One Night Only that there

will be a season two of Sagas of Sundry, entitled
Madness.

TALIESIN: Yeah, suddenly I showed up and there's
30 yards of red velvet that I've been begging for.

LIAM: Boy, let me tell you what I had for lunch
today.

SAM: We're essentially doing an episode of
allworknoplay right now. Should we start? Maybe by

the time you're done--

MATT: I think at this point, we need to.

LIAM: I will jaeger Pike, Grog, and Vex. It will
be fine. "Titties. Let's do it."

MATT: Anyway. (laughs) That being the case, as we
await the return of two of our players, let us

begin tonight's journey on tonight's episode of
Critical Role.

[dramatic music]

MATT: Hello, and welcome back. So. Last we left
off on this adventure--

(giggling)

MATT: Goddamn it, Liam. Last we left off on this
adventure, Vox Machina had been counting down

their preparations to the eventual showdown and
second battle with Vecna, whom they discovered

recently had completed his ascension into godhood,
the only god on the Prime Material Plane. Not

knowing what his plans were, you began to bring
together what information you had, upon gathering

blessings from different deities and pieces of
their divinity to craft the Prime Trammels, a

device that was once used to seal the Chained
Oblivion, long ago.

You traveled deep beneath the volcano of
Scaldseat, beneath the ocean, off the coast of

Issylra. Between Percival and Grog's newfound
imbuement of skills and knowledge via Ioun, you

managed to successfully defeat the guardian, craft
the trammels and return to Vasselheim, where you

discovered via Pike that there was a council
meeting happening within the Platinum Sanctuary.

There you met up with the Hand of Ord.

MARISHA: Yeah, everyone was there.

MATT: High Hierophant Ophera of the Birthheart. There
was Earthbreaker Groon. There were Maidens of the

Raven. Eventually, Allura and Kima, and J'mon Sa
Ord had also come into the fray.

During this discussion about what to do, what to
handle, you were granted a ring by High Bearer

Vord that, within a certain radius, could prevent
divinations or specifically scrying on you. Not

the School of Divination, but magics that divine
your location, whatever's in your vicinity.

This moment, the council was interrupted by an
image of Vecna taunting you, until it was

dispelled by Allura. The discussion was that
something was going on in the mountain range where

Vecna seemed to have Thar Amphala, which had been
discovered by a couple of surviving wyvern riders.

Thinking about the two possible locations that
could be of interest to Vecna, you gathered your

materials, your preparations, and with the first
striking lot of wyvern riders, on the back of the

newly transformed J'mon Sa Ord into the Devo'ssa
dragon form, you were transported via druids to

the northern icy landscape of Issylra, to the base
of the Zenwick Mountains.

You discovered that the Crypts of Thomara, an
ancient, forgotten dwarven society that had

destroyed itself through cannibalism and madness
was now a sinkhole in the mountain range, and a

series of large, heavy, 150-plus-foot-across
cavernous openings in the ground formed a pattern

that you soon discovered were footfalls. Steps.
You came upon the risen undead primordial earth

titan, long left beneath the surface of the world,
dead since the Founding, now given unlife and

walking its way southeast towards Vasselheim. Atop
its shoulders, you saw Thar Amphala, protected by

some sort of magical barrier.

There you struggled with a few fleets of flying
gloomstalkers that were charging their way towards

you. You turned yourself invisible through both
Scanlan and J'mon Sa Ord-- J'mon or Devo'ssa: both

forms, same person-- you managed to, thanks to a
very high roll from Keyleth, discover there was a

waterfall or trickle of liquid near the hip of
this giant titan. Its giant, four, swinging arms

of imminent danger in its vicinity only managed to
clip Keyleth and Vax once.

Surviving the impact, you all gathered at this
ingress right around the hip of the titan, where

you leapt off the dragon and proceeded to make
your way in. Keyleth, using Control Water, was

keeping the heavy flow of an underground river
from blowing you off the broken steps that lead

into your entry. And that is where we left off.

At this time, Keyleth, as you're all standing,
looking over your shoulder, you can see the

opening where you entered. It's this giant view
through this window where you can see down below

the mountains and the valleys and the
landscapes outside. You can hear the wind blowing

though and battering like a heavy, deep whistle.
Oh! And we have the rest of our party. Perfect

timing. Welcome.

SAM: Okay, we'll start from announcements again.

LIAM: I did a very good job with merchandise.

LAURA: Did you? What did you say about
merchandise?

SAM: He didn't say anything, but he did a great
impression of you.

LAURA: Cool. Sorry about that.

SAM: A professional is on time, Laura.

TRAVIS: It was actually up to me to remember, and
I didn't. She was closest to home.

MATT: So thank you, Laura. As you all stand on the
outside of the opening of this titan ingress, the

slick stone steps that break off and crumble into
the open expanse where you can plummet hundreds of

feet to your death, should you slip. Keyleth is
holding the water at bay, keeping the flow from

pushing you all back outside of the large earth
entity. Gathering your strength, you watch as

J'mon Sa Ord's brass dragon form flies just
outside of your visual range. You now all stand

within this 15-foot-wide entryway. What do you
do?

TALIESIN: Is there a passage so we can get out of
the flow of the water, once it's been released?

MATT: Currently, the flow mostly covers about ten
to 15 feet of this opening. It flows downward.

It's not super strong, but it's enough where it
would be somewhat dangerous to some of you.

However, Keyleth is keeping it at bay for as long
as she can concentrate.

LIAM: If she weren't controlling it, would there
still be, even though it's dangerous, some air?

MATT: Yeah. It may be up to your knees as far as
the flow. It's a possible slip, and you're

fighting the current to push you outside of the
titan.

MARISHA: It's concentration up to ten minutes, so
let's move quickly.

SAM: So we're going in? Into the giant?

TALIESIN: Well, it's either that or back out.

LAURA: Do I still have Pass Without a Trace on
us?

MATT: You haven't lost concentration on it, so I
imagine so. What's the marching order, by the way?

LIAM: I'll be up front.

MATT: All right, we have Vax up front. Who's
next?

MARISHA: I'll be behind Vax, since we touched down
first, I guess.

MATT: All right, Keyleth's after Vax. Who's next?

LAURA: I will be behind them.

MATT: All right. Is Trinket still in your
necklace?

LAURA: Yeah, I'm bamfing him out right now.

MATT: Okay. Trinket is out, next to you. Who's
after Vex?

SAM: I will be lucky Pierre, right in the middle.

LIAM: Pike will walk right in front of Grog.

TRAVIS: I'll be the caboose.

TALIESIN: I'll be between Pike and Grog, right
there.

MATT: Okay. Good to know. Slick steps across the
smooth stone walkway. The water, however, being

kept at bay by Keyleth. You watch as this river is
being curled back into itself. The flow is being

staunched. It's briefly frozen in time. It's a
unique thing to see, especially as there is no

light source inside, so you can see, especially
those of you with darkvision, the flow and the

movement. It swirls back on itself and seems to be
contained in that space. As you push up, bits of

it splash and trickle out to the side, but for the
most part you maintain complete control of this flow.

As you continue up the cracked stone stairs,
there's a slight right curvature up into this

shaded area. The roof of this opening is maybe ten
feet tall. It dips down, with some of the rough

rock outside and ceiling area of this, to about
seven to six feet. Grog, you have to dip down a

few times. You see hints of stalactites that you
have to maneuver around and push through. It's not

a huge opening, and it seems to vary in its size.
With each heavy footfall, you have to catch

yourself on the wall as the impact and the shake,
the (crashing) of each step of the titan you're

within seems to cause you to shift slightly, and a
faint bit of dust be released from the tunnel

around you.

LIAM: Because we don't know what part of this is
the titan's butt and earth, but some of it could

have been made by cannibal dwarves at some point,
I'm going to assume I'm looking for traps and

listening for undead cannibal dwarves.

MATT: Okay, so you're taking a very slow
approach.

MARISHA: Actually, that's a good point. Does this
look like it was carved by man from cannibal

dwarves, or nature-made?

MATT: Make an investigation check.

MARISHA: Investigation, or nature check?

MATT: This would not be a nature check.

MARISHA: My better one? That doesn't count. No,
nope. Four total.

MATT: Much of this tunnel seems to be natural
cavern, but there were steps when you first came

in. There were stone steps that were carved or
placed within the dirt that eventually were

consumed or covered by silt and loose earth and
whatever the river knocked loose and began to flow

over it. So you can see both. A lot of this is
natural, but there seem to be, at least in the 30

or 40 feet you've made into the tunnel, you've
seen elements of civilization, of crafted entry,

that merge with the terrain.

MARISHA: Did we get a time frame of how long ago
this crypt was built before? How old this crypt

has been around?

MATT: Early Age of Arcanum, so best estimate from
what you knew, you guys both learning of the

history of this, well over 1,500 years, if not
longer.

SAM: Before the great war thing?

MATT: After the Founding, which was the first
great war, where the titans were slaughtered.

Beginning of the Age of Arcanum, which was long
before the Divergence.

TRAVIS: Can I touch the ground, now that we're in
the titan? I'm thinking maybe this might be where

the Knuckles are from. Can I touch it and see if
the oven mitts do anything?

MATT: Their general, faint vibration never stops.
There's a perpetual, very minute hum to them.

Touching it doesn't seem to have any effect or
change. The proximity seems to be triggering some

sort of harmonization.

TRAVIS: I reach up and touch my Adam's apple and
(vibrating) this place is crazy. Sorry. No, you

wouldn't do it? I thought you would.

MATT: All right, so make an investigation check,
Vax, as you slowly lead the group up this slightly

curving tunnel.

LIAM: That is a 27.

MATT: 27, okay.

LAURA: I didn't get to sort them.

MATT: Well, you should do that now.

TALIESIN: Chaos. Introducing chaos.

MATT: As you guys slowly make your way along the
path, behind Vax, you look out and occasionally

see bits of loose earth that looks looser than
most. As you brush it aside, you can see the steps

continue. A lot of it's been buried, but this was
a staircase that slowly ascended and curved. The

movement of the titan seems to have knocked a lot
of the loose tunnel to cover it. As you brush it

aside, you carefully look about, and you can see
that there are occasional symbols of a writing you

don't understand, but nothing stands out to you as
a trap or a trigger.

MARISHA: Does it look familiar to any of us?

MATT: What languages do you guys know?

TRAVIS: Why are you even looking over here? I know
stick figures. I know charades.

MATT: Do any of you know Dwarven?

LAURA: You can read Dwarven now! You can read now,
Grog. You can read four- to five-letter words.

TRAVIS: I can read Dwarven because of the belt.

SAM: But only tiny bits.

TRAVIS: Yeah, I might fuck up the bigger pieces.

MATT: Grog, as Vax points out some of these
symbols, you sit there and concentrate really hard

on one of the carvings in the recently uncovered
stone step. As you focus, you begin to sound out

the sound to yourself repeatedly. (hesitant
syllables) You're trying to find the right way to

pronounce it.

TRAVIS: Baa-ram-ewe. Babe, anyone?

MATT: It takes you about two to three minutes to
sound this out, which knocks about two to three

minutes off of your concentration time for your
Control Water spell. But this looks to be carved

in as a warning.

TRAVIS: Du. Du hast. Du hast mich.

(laughter)

MATT: Strangely, if you could have seen Thomara
when it was a highly functioning society, they

would have been blasting Rammstein everywhere,
man.

LIAM: Speak Rammstein and enter.

MATT: Yeah, these weren't the happy-go-lucky
dwarves of old. This was a brutal clan.

TRAVIS: It looks like a warning of some kind.

MATT: The rough translation from what you can--
spending about five minutes or so breaking out

this glyph and a few other glyphs, it says,
"Leave. Death here. No further."

TRAVIS: Right, it says, "Leaves, death here, no
further." So leaves, death here, leaves of death

here, but no further. I'm still working it out.

SAM: Maybe it's "no fur." Maybe we should leave
Trinket. I'm just saying, that's the furriest one.

I don't want Trinket to die.

LAURA: Thanks, Scanlan.

MARISHA: I feel like we already knew so much of
that.

TRAVIS: I've been working really hard. That was
five minutes of the most concentration I've ever

given to one thing in my life. Thanks.

MARISHA: Okay, let's get up this river before I
lose concentration.

MATT: You push up another 60 or so feet, Vax still
keeping the point man on this. Slowly pulling

forward, you begin to hear the sound of rushing
water growing louder and louder. You eventually

come across the rift in the ceiling that is
spilling forth the water that is forming this

river. It looks like there is a recent crack and a
piece of eroded earth that has fallen out from

some sort of water source further up inside the
titan that is causing this river to continuously

run in and out of this titan.

SAM: How does this work? How much water could a
titan hold?

MARISHA: Well, this thing is massive.

SAM: I know, but is there a barrel of water in his
chest?

MARISHA: Maybe a lake? An underground lake?

TALIESIN: We're always impressed by how much water
comes out of you.

MATT: At this point, you guys would be able to
move around and continue up past where this

opening is, and the river would no longer be
impeding your path.

LAURA: Let's do that. Keep moving up, right?
That's where the city is.

SAM: Sure.

MARISHA: Hang on. Can I do a nature check? Is
there anything weird about this?

LAURA: While she's doing a nature check, I want to
do Primeval Awareness and sense undead in the

area. Within a mile of me.

MATT: Okay. Many.

LAURA: Within the mile?

MATT: Within a mile, which is the entirety of the
titan, many. Thousands.

TRAVIS: But they're probably in inoperable
pieces.

LAURA: Are they all above us or are some near us?

MATT: Nothing within the very immediate vicinity. Due
to the limitations of Primeval Awareness, which

does not show you the exact location, you sense
the presence and vague direction. Forward and

upward, there is this giant mass of undead force
that the minute you focus, it causes you to hold

your breath. As soon as the impact hits you, you
have to remind yourself to exhale.

SAM: But maybe they're all hypnotized or
something.

MARISHA: 17?

MATT: Okay. The structural damage appears to be
natural. As you pay attention and watch as another

footfall of the titan hits (crashing) and it
shakes, you watch as another piece of rock falls

and a little of the water flow expands to allow a
little more water to exit. You get the sense that,

as the titan moves, the longer it travels--

MARISHA: The more it's going to fall apart?

MATT: Or at least portions of it that were built
into the titan, that aren't part of its natural body--

MARISHA: Start to crumble?

MATT: Some of them may.

LAURA: What if we Earthquake the titan?

SAM: To do what?

LAURA: To fucking fall apart!

SAM: But we're in it.

LAURA: Yeah, but we could take out the entire
city.

SAM: We're in it!

TALIESIN: Last time we did that, it kept floating
up top.

LAURA: But it couldn't move for a while.

MARISHA: We have to get to the top. This thing is
too big. I don't think my Earthquake will do enough.

LIAM: It's in the grab bag. It's an option.

TRAVIS: If we're inside the GI tract of this titan
and we give it an Earthquake, is it basically like

a big old dead titan fart?

LAURA: Potentially. It could shit out a lot of
dwarven zombies.

TALIESIN: It is also an option if we do get
overrun.

TRAVIS: True.

MARISHA: Did you learn it today, Pike?

LAURA: "Yeah."

SAM: Oh, we're playing Pike?

LIAM: We're playing Pike.

SAM: You two?

LIAM: We are. We're the Pike jaegers.

SAM: Okay.

LAURA: Mostly Liam.

LIAM: You can do the impression, and I will sort
through the pages.

MATT: There you go. As you guys descend past the
rushing water, the sound of the river begins to

slowly fade behind you as you continue to spiral
upward, this slow crawling, ascending tunnel. The

dirt that consumes the stairs at your feet
eventually begins to give away as your feet find

purchase in softer earth from loose gravel and the
rocky terrain. As you continue to push further and

further into the interior of this titan, you feel
another heavy impacting footfall, and all of you

have to brace yourself against the nearby wall,
this impact seeming heavier than others, and as it

does, a number of rocks tumble past.

LAURA: What do you think he just did? Do you think
he just fell?

SAM: Maybe?

TALIESIN: I think he swung at something.

MATT: Another footfall.

Another footfall. Every single hit seems to cause
the foreign structures on the inside to-- hope

that they were made well. Another heavy footfall
hits even heavier than the last, and this one, the

impact hits so hard that you guys are almost
thrown to your knees as you reach out, and you

hear this loud crack sound above you. I need
Scanlan, Pike, Percival, and Grog to make a

dexterity saving throw, please.

SAM: Dex, huh?

MATT: Yep.

LIAM: Pike needs to do it too, right?

MATT: Yep.

TRAVIS: Natural 20. Gil coming in in the clutch!

TALIESIN: 15.

SAM: 13.

LIAM: 13 for the other gnome.

MATT: All right. Everyone but Grog, you glance up
just in time to watch as a large piece of the

tunnel ceiling dislodges and comes plummeting down
in your direction. Grog, you dive out of the way,

being clipped off the shoulder, but you manage to
avoid most of the impact. The rest of you,

however, immediately get buried by rock and broken
earth, suffering 29 points of bludgeoning damage

to Percival, Pike, and Scanlan. And they are
buried and restrained right now,

unable to breathe.

TRAVIS: I go over and I start-- boulders, dirt,
everything.

MATT: Between all of you guys able to help, it's a
negligible period of time, and it wasn't too heavy

of an impact. You manage to get them free over the
next five or so minutes. They get their breath

back. A bit battered, but you get the sense that
you should travel quickly.

LAURA: We'll keep going quickly, then.

MATT: Picking up the pace, you continue up the
curvature of the upward ascension. It's probably

been about 60 or 70 feet since you've seen any
carved portion of terrain, any sign of previous

dwarven construct or building or architecture. As
the tunnel stops at the curve, it eventually,

looking ahead, ascends a bit, about a ten-foot
climb up onto a plateau of some kind. You can see

some weird root-like tree is growing out of one
wall and seems to be dead and petrified in its

current space. Do you guys wish to ascend to the
plateau?

LAURA: We probably should, right?

LIAM: How far away is it?

MATT: It's about 40 feet from you right now.

LIAM: I'm going to creep up 20 feet in front of
everybody else.

LAURA: I want to go with him. I need to keep an
eye out for the zombie dwarves.

LIAM: Divine Sense, which is specific to undead
location, not vague, if there's any within 60

feet. I'll use one.

MATT: Okay. Focusing, no undead within 60 feet of
you.

LAURA: That's good.

SAM: I drank a tiny little potion of healing. I
healed six.

MATT: Good job!

LIAM: So it's leading up to a plateau?

MATT: Yeah, it goes up about ten or so feet, 15
feet up, and then it leads to another plateau, and

you can't see beyond that.

LIAM: I'm going to scuttle up and look over.

MATT: Okay. Are you stealthing? Roll a stealth
check.

LAURA: Add ten to it!

MATT: Vex, are you going with him or letting him
scout ahead?

LAURA: I crawled up, but then, once he took off
again, then I stayed.

MATT: Okay.

LIAM: 41.

MATT: 41. Okay, cool.

TRAVIS: 41?

LIAM: This is old news, guys. This is old news.
This is what I get to do.

TRAVIS: It seems new to me every time.

MATT: All right. You ascend to the top of this
plateau. It only goes on for about 15 feet, and

then descends down into another chamber that
splits in two different directions. A tunnel that

goes to the right and to the left. You can see,
once again, the stalactites, some of them meeting

in the center with the stalagmites to form
pillars. You can see portions of the wall that

have collapsed and created these soft landslides
in one corner to the right of you. But currently,

all you see is the descending tunnel and then the
split, and you can't see too far

one way or the other.

LIAM: Yeah. I turn around to group, and do like
a-- And then I go down over, stealthing along the way.

MATT: Okay. Anyone else? What are you doing?

LAURA: I guess we follow.

SAM: What did this mean? Did this mean we were
supposed to follow him and split up?

LAURA: I think that means that there's a split in
the path.

SAM: Let's split up, anyway.

LAURA: Scanlan, you go one way, and we'll go the
other.

MATT: Okay, so as the rest of you ascend to the
top of the plateau, you make your way down to the

center, and you can see that the path goes to the
right and the left. Both seem fairly identical,

though they're traveling in opposite directions.

TALIESIN: We entered in the left side of the
body?

MATT: If you were to look at it straight on, like
it's facing you, it would be the right side.

LAURA: If it's facing us.

MATT: Correct.

MARISHA: So our right, its left.

LAURA: No. Its right, our left.

TALIESIN: Looking at its butt.

MATT: If you're looking at its butt, to the
right.

TALIESIN: All right, to the right leg. So if we
split, we probably want to keep to the core of it.

MARISHA: So go left? To the left.

SAM: That is a decision, sure.

TALIESIN: We'll check, obviously, for air
currents.

MATT: At which point, there is what sounds like an
explosion of rock and dirt immediately to the left

of Percival as two heavy, rock-like limbs reach
out, grab, and pull him against the wall as the

ceiling crumples over and collapses. He has now
vanished within the wall, and now leaving a pile

of rock in his place.

LAURA: Percy! Keyleth! Keyleth, dig him out!

MATT: Darkness. And you're now restrained, and
there is no air.

LAURA: I start clawing at the wall where he was.

MATT: You start clawing it. At this point, with
the alertness piqued up between you two and

Keyleth, you glance around and you can see things
emerging out of the nearby walls. Like the rocks

themselves are almost pushing through.

MARISHA: I say, get to the middle, stay away from
the walls! And I cast Transmute Rock, right in the

space where he went, and I reach my hands in and
try and grab him out of mud.

MATT: Okay.

MARISHA: Yeah, it's a 3rd-level spell.

TRAVIS: Have you ever transmuted anything before?

MARISHA: I've done it once before, and it didn't
work very well.

MATT: So as you do that, this entire section of
the wall (squishing) turns to a heavy, soft mud

material, and your arms plunge into it, and you
feel, and you grab Percival, and pull him out.

You're covered in thick, sludgy mud, and as he's
pulled out, you guys glance around and you can

see, shifting in the darkness, the walls in
certain places seem to almost move. I need you all

to roll initiative.

MARISHA: We're fighting walls! First doors, now
walls!

SAM: Wow! We're already at a battle map!

TRAVIS: I know aquariums that don't look that
good.

MATT: Percival, you're pulled into this side
there. Keyleth had just pulled you out there. Vex

and Trinket.

LAURA: I would be closer to Percy than Trinket
is.

MATT: That's true. You were scrambling at the
wall, so that will be Trinket over there.

LIAM: I was, as well. The twins were scrabbling at
the rock.

MATT: All right. And that being the case, then,
you guys are all clustered up in that platform.

LAURA: No!

LIAM: Wait. Matt, wait.

TRAVIS: (robotically) The walk sign is on.

MATT: You watch as these creatures that are
similar to the living earth physicality of the

titan and/or the elemental form that Keyleth has
taken in the past seem to emerge, but where their

once glowing elemental eyes are, there's a vacuous
darkness. You feel the rumble of the ground as

they shift and glide through the rock in their
vicinity.

MARISHA: Oh, they're undead necromantic elemental
earth ellies?

MATT: They're not undead, because you do not sense
undead in the presence.

LAURA: Wait. Oh no! You guys, guess what we didn't
do? We didn't have a feast.

SAM: Well, how were we going to have a feast? We
were in a big board meeting and then we came here.

MATT: So getting initiative orders here. All
right, 25 to 20?

TALIESIN: 21.

TRAVIS: Same thing.

LAURA: 21 as well.

MATT: Jeez. All right. 20 to 15?

LIAM: 19.

SAM: 18!

MATT: All right. 15 to ten? Ten to five?

MARISHA: Eight.

LIAM: Pike rolled a one.

MATT: Got it. Top of the round, Percival. As you
emerge, covered in the sludge, you look around

you. By the way, right now, you have no vision
because nobody lit a torch. I should remember

that. You are a human. You have no common sight.
We'll say for the purposes of this, you had a

torch out, so you could see.

TALIESIN: I might have been using my flashlight, I
would imagine.

LIAM: Does Pike's Mace of Disruption always shed
bright light for 20 feet?

MATT: When she chooses to. However, as soon as you
were pulled into the wall and then dragged back

out, and the whole surface of it is coated, you
were seeing darkness. In your turn, you are

blinded right now.

TALIESIN: I'm blinded?

MATT: Yes, because you can't see anything around
you. All you hear is the moving and shifting of

rock and your allies all preparing for some sort
of assault.

TALIESIN: I'm going to spend my turn removing the
mud from my eyes, and I think I still have a

charge in my flashlight, at this point.

MATT: You can't, though. It is covered in muck and
mud.

TALIESIN: I'm going to spend my bonus action
clearing that and then--

MATT: We'll say it'll take your whole turn to
clear yourself and to clear the light from that,

so there you go. At that point, the light at the
front of your weapon lights up, illuminates the

vicinity, and you see the moving shadows are bits
of rock and stone, moving, living out of the

nearby walls.

LAURA: How do we fight rocks?

MARISHA: I'm about to tell you. Be careful. They
can go into the walls and earth glide, so watch

your feet.

MATT: Percival, you can move if you want to.

TALIESIN: Yeah. Is there one right next to me
right now?

MATT: There's one maybe ten feet from you.

TALIESIN: I'm going to hop over by the little pool
fountain. I'm going to back up and get out of this

clump of people.

LAURA: That sounded like you were casting a
spell.

MARISHA: They're vulnerable to thunder damage,
anything vibrate-y, because rocks.

MATT: Which you will find out-- I'll say that
you're yelling that as everyone is preparing. That

finishes Percival's turn. Grog, you're up.

TRAVIS: I would like to rage. I would like to spin
around 180 degrees, and I would like to attack

Clayface right about there.

MATT: Okay, go for it.

TRAVIS: Shit Stain is down at the bottom of the
stairs. Reckless!

MATT: Go for it.

SAM: Great Weapon Master! Assassinate! Uncanny
rage!

TRAVIS: 28.

MATT: 28 hits.

TRAVIS: Okay. Oh, I reroll ones and twos. Nice! 22
plus one point of necrotic. 23 points of damage.

MATT: 23 points of damage in the first hit. As you
spin around, jaw open, growling in rage (yells),

you bring the axe across, and it cuts across the
front of its chest. You watch as pieces of rock

break off, and it still holds strong against the
impact.

TRAVIS: I do it again!

MATT: Go for it.

TRAVIS: Reckless, Great Weapon Master this time!

25.

MATT: 25 hits.

TRAVIS: 31 points of damage.

MATT: Nice! The second hit, you swing around and
slam it. It actually gets stuck and wedged in part

of its body. The mouth opens and gives this
guttural (grunts) as a reaction. Actually giving a

pain exert upon the hit. However, as it reaches
out, both of its hands grab the edge of the axe.

All right. That end your turn?

TRAVIS: Is he holding my axe?

MATT: He's attempting to.

TRAVIS: Well, I wanted to move!

MATT: Okay, then move.

TRAVIS: I'm moving! I would like to go (counting)
30 feet to face off with this guy.

MATT: All right. Well, that guy swings at you with
his fist as you pull away. You rip the axe out of

its grasp, and instead it takes one wide swing
with its right fist.

LAURA: But you slice his fingers off when he does
it!

MATT: He has advantage because you used reckless.
That is a 24 to hit.

TRAVIS: I have a low AC. I don't wear clothes. I
wear gauntlets and stuff. I wear skin. And tattoos.

MATT: That is 18 points of bludgeoning damage,
reduced to nine. All right, that finish your turn,

Grog? Vex, you're up. And you're on deck, Vax.

LAURA: Okay. I'm going to cast Hunter's Mark.

MATT: On?

LAURA: On the biggest one. This one.

MATT: All right.

LAURA: And then I'm going to shoot him. With
sharpshooter!

MATT: Go for it!

LAURA: Wait, okay. Oh no. 19 minus five. 14.

MATT: 14 does not hit, unfortunately. As you mark
it with your spell, you pull back the first arrow,

and it hits, but it ends up exploding, the shards
of wood scattering off of it, and your hear a

slight (grunts).

LAURA: Yeah, you motherfucker. Okay. 16.

MATT: 16 misses, just barely. You go to shoot
another arrow, this time out of frustration, as

you pull back and let it loose, it actually
backhands the arrow out of the air, scattering the

shaft in the middle of the sky.

LAURA: Wait, I didn't say sharpshooter! I didn't
say sharpshooter on that one, did I? I didn't clarify.

MATT: So without the minus five, what would it
be?

LAURA: It would be 21.

MATT: Okay. You didn't say it.

LAURA: I should've said it, but I didn't say it.

MATT: That's okay, we'll let it go. Okay, so roll
damage. Regular damage. So as it goes to backhand

it out of the air, the arrow manages to sink in
the center of its fist. It still causes a crack to

widen across the various plates that keep its left
arm together.

LAURA: 16 plus five lightning damage. And then,
since he is next to Scanlan, I get sneak attack?

MATT: Correct.

LAURA: Ooh, 12. 15 sneak attack! And then Hunter's
Mark, three.

MATT: All right. Fantastic. 39 damage in one hit.
So the second one, as it hits, it causes this rift

in the center of its large, battering ram-like arm
to shift and crack and pieces of broken shale peel

and fall off to the ground around it. Does that
end your turn?

LAURA: Yeah.

MATT: Do you want to move, or do you want to stay
where you are?

LAURA: I'm going to stay where I am.

MATT: Vax, you're up.

LIAM: We've been in here under an hour. Probably
not much time left, but under an hour, right?

Since we arrived?

MATT: Pushing close to an hour.

LIAM: Okay. How high is the ceiling in this
tunnel?

MATT: About 12 feet.

LIAM: 12 feet. I will float above everybody, in
the space above their heads. We can fudge it.

Probably between Percy and Pike, if we can manage
it. And I'm going to dagger, dagger, dagger, with

sharpshooter on all three, the one right below me
next to Keyleth.

MATT: All righty.

LIAM: Okay. The first one is a 20.

MATT: All right, that hits.

LIAM: Okay. Second one is balls. And the third one
is... 20.

MATT: 20 hits.

LIAM: And because assassin and they haven't gone
yet-- oh, I have advantage because of assassin, so

sneak attack. Also next to Keyleth. Multiple
reasons for sneak attack, so that is 11, plus

psychic damage is 15. (counting) 36 for the first
one. And then the last one does a rinky-dink one.

MATT: One point of damage.

LIAM: Because off-hand attack doesn't get any--

MATT: There's no modifier, just whatever damage
the weapon would deal.

LIAM: Yeah, just one.

MATT: Okay.

LIAM: And I'll stay floating.

MATT: All right. So as you're flying there, your
wings still--

LAURA: Don't you add six, though?

LIAM: No modifier. That's the modifier.

MATT: No dexterity modifier. It still gets weapon
bonus, damage bonus on the weapon.

LIAM: That's calculated from dexterity. Oh, so
two. And 20 more for the sharpshooter.

MATT: Ah, didn't add sharpshooter onto that. Keep
that in mind. As you release the torrent of

daggers down, one of them slams into the chest as
another hits and skids off to the side and

vanishes, and the third one actually strikes right
where the first dagger was, driving it deeper in.

Both of them seem to wedge and break the interior
of its chest, and you watch as parts of its body

are falling off in chunks. It's giving this
horrible sucking sound, like it's barely holding

itself together. (wheezes) But there it still
stands. That ends your turn. Scanlan, you're up.

SAM: Okay, I will rotate around the guy with the
red ring around him so that I'm between him and

his friend.

MATT: Right there, you mean? Okay, you're right on
the edge. There's a platform drop-off behind you.

SAM: (singing) I'm living on the edge!

(laughter)

MATT: As you rush over there, you're like
(grunts). You watch as a couple rocks tumble off

and clatter below. Ten-foot drop; not too bad.

SAM: Sure. Oh. I'll inspire Grog first. Because
I'm about to hit you.

TRAVIS: Okay.

(laughter)

SAM: I will sing, (singing) Hey now! You're a
Grog-star. Get your axe up and slay! Hey now!

You're a Grog-star. Get your rage on and rage! All
Laura's dice are gold. Now a d12 can be rolled.

TRAVIS: Pulled that shit out at the last minute.

MATT: It came back around. All right, so take your
inspiration dice, definitely.

SAM: And then I'll do a 3rd-level Thunderwave.

MATT: Towards which one?

SAM: Both. It's 15 feet from me. Yeah, it's from
me in a 15-foot cube.

MATT: A cube? Okay, so you can put yourself in the
cube, then. Okay.

TALIESIN: You may not even hit Grog, necessarily.

TRAVIS: You'd better.

MATT: You can do it where it doesn't hit Grog. It
just hits the other guy.

SAM: That'll be nice!

MATT: I'll let you do that. Out the sides of you.
All right, so that's a constitution saving throw

for both of them, right?

SAM: Yeah, sure. Oh shit. Yeah.

MATT: Second one does save. First one does not.
Rolled a natural 20 on its saving throw. The first

one rolled a five.

SAM: What did the second one roll?

MATT: Natural 20.

SAM: Oh fuck. Okay, that does. They both take 4d8
damage, and the one who didn't make his save gets

pushed away, but he's right up against the wall.

MATT: So it doesn't do anything. However, it does
thunder damage, which they are vulnerable to, so

they take double damage from this.

SAM: Double damage?!

MATT: You watch as the blast of thunder energy
slams outward. Both of them, you watch as their

bodies are thrown into the rock behind them.

SAM: Terrible! 12 points.

TALIESIN: That was subpar.

MATT: That's okay. Both of them get hit and thrown
back, slam into the wall, and you watch as their

body is unable to earthglide based on the force of
the impact, so it actually causes part of their

body to crack intrinsically. And they both fall
back to the ground, and their feet sink into the

stone about an inch or two. And they reposition
their stance. All right. Anything else you want to do?

SAM: Oh shit, if I move away, he's going to take a
swing at me, isn't he? But that would be wise.

MATT: Your call.

SAM: No, I'll shelter in place.

MATT: Okay. Now it's their turn.

TRAVIS: They're going to come out asking for help,
because they've been--

MARISHA: We've been stuck in his digestive tract!

TRAVIS: And we're slaughtering them! We weren't
going to even say anything or do anything to you guys!

MATT: First off, I need Keyleth, Vex, and Percival
to make a dexterity saving throw, please.

LAURA: Natural 20!

MATT: Nice.

MARISHA: That was so close to being a natural 20!

TALIESIN: Not natural 20, but a 20 nonetheless.

MATT: Okay. What did you get?

MARISHA: 12.

MATT: All right.

LIAM: What, you're sucked in the ground? No!

LAURA: The ground raised up?

MARISHA: Did they turn us to stone? What did they
do?

MATT: No. Keyleth, you all of a sudden watch as
the one behind you that is barely holding on

angrily goes (impact) slams its fist into the
ground. And from the sudden vibration, the earth

seems to rise up underneath and attempt to
swallow you. Vex and Percival, you both grab each

other's hands and leap into the air, and it passes
under your feet. However, Keyleth is not fast

enough and gets swallowed as it closes up (crash)
around her, and now there's a giant pile of earth

and rock where Keyleth is buried within and
restrained. You both manage to move out of the way.

LIAM: Yeah. Vax sees that and is not worried.

(laughter)

LAURA: She's fine.

MATT: These guys are going to move up there. And
this guy's going to move up here. This guy's going

to attempt to pummel the shit out of Scanlan. He's
going to make two slam attacks against you. That

is a 20 and a 21.

SAM: Yeah.

MATT: You take 16 points of bludgeoning damage and
17 points of bludgeoning damage. And you watch as

it slips into the wall and vanishes. You can make
an attack of opportunity against it. However, I am

giving it three-quarters cover, as it pulls just
out of melee range and is mostly in the wall, so

it gets plus five to armor class.

SAM: I will swing my sword at it with advantage,
because I just inspired someone, and Mythcarver

has that feature. The first one was better. 17
plus ten!

MATT: That actually hits! Go ahead and roll
damage.

TRAVIS: Mythcarver gets you some action once every
two years.

SAM: I actually don't know. It says it's a
plus-three longsword. Does that mean it's 1d8 plus three?

MATT: 1d8 plus three plus your strength modifier.

SAM: So it's 1d8 plus four. And then I rolled a
one, so that's five. But it also says, somewhere

in here, deals an additional 1d6 force damage! Oh
yeah! One.

MATT: Hey, six free points of damage! It
vanishes somewhere inside the wall. You're not

entirely sure where. Two attacks on you, Percival.
That is a 28 and a 19.

TALIESIN: Yeah.

LIAM: Dang, Perce.

MATT: 16 points of bludgeoning damage.

TALIESIN: 16?

MATT: Yep. And 15 points of bludgeoning damage.

SAM: Shit! On a retreating enemy, I get to cast a
spell.

MATT: War caster. Well, next time. That's against
you and against Vex. That is a 22?

LAURA: Oh wait, that's Pike. Hold on. Yes, it hits
me.

MATT: And 21.

LAURA: My armor class is 21.

MATT: So it still hits you, all right. You take 14
points of bludgeoning damage, and another 14

points of bludgeoning damage. And then both of
these guys--

TALIESIN: Do we get an attack of opportunity?

MATT: You do. With a plus five to AC as this guy
sinks into the ground.

LAURA: Can we shoot him with an arrow as he
sinks into the ground?

MATT: No, it's a melee attack.

TALIESIN: So I'm going to take a swing.

MATT: All right.

TALIESIN: That hits. Actually, I crit only with my
guns on a 19, right? I don't crit with my sword?

MATT: I'm pretty sure you crit on a 19 or 20
regardless, but the hemorrhaging shot element

doesn't happen.

TALIESIN: The hemorrhaging shot obviously doesn't
happen even though it's a natural-- That's fine.

I crit, so that's a ridiculous thing to
hit. 32 to hit.

MATT: Yeah, that hits.

TALIESIN: So that's a 1d8.

TRAVIS: You never know, that guy could be
made out of concrete.

TALIESIN: Two plus seven, and it's silvered, if
that matters. That's 16 points of piercing damage.

MATT: All right, cool. So you strike out as it
disappears into the wall and vanishes. This guy

here shifts into the wall as well.

LIAM: He vanished?

MATT: Well, he (sucking sound) into the wall.

LAURA: They're all vanishing!

TRAVIS: Well, not this guy, they're still
walking.

MATT: And the guy who's right there is going to
take two strikes at you, Grog.

TRAVIS: Oh, bring it. They both hit. They're
reckless.

MATT: Yep. Yep. And the other attack-- Yep, both
hit. So that's 16 points of bludgeoning damage,

reduced to eight. And 12 points of bludgeoning
damage, reduced to six.

TRAVIS: Six. Can I take my retaliation strike
against him?

MATT: You can.

TRAVIS: Lovely. Reckless, Great Weapon Master.
Come on. Natural 20!

MATT: Oh, that's going to suck!

LAURA: Squish him! Make a building out of him! I
don't know.

TRAVIS: Oh! I reroll ones and twos! Great. 11,
that's better.

TALIESIN: You get all sorts of bonuses to that
crit.

TRAVIS: 36, 42--

LAURA: Now I've got David Bowie in my head.

TRAVIS: 48.

MATT: 48 points of damage.

TRAVIS: Oh, necrotic. 52.

TALIESIN: Is that doubled? And you doubled
everything into your extra crit--

TRAVIS: I've been practicing.

MATT: As it slams with both fists into you, with
one giant (whoosh) over the head as it impacts

you, you grab with one hand the back of its fist
and grin, and then bring the axe straight up into

its torso with one hand. It strikes and splits
open part of its rock chest and you hear this

(guttural wheeze) which it reforms again. But
still, it's taken the brunt of the impact, and

it's now going to shift into the wall, which you
can't attack because you already used your

reaction. That ends their turn. Keyleth, you're
up. You're currently buried. You're blinded.

MARISHA: Okay. I'm going to concentrate for a
second, and then go earth elemental.

(thud) And now that I'm earth elemental, I have
tremor sense. Can I sense where these other

motherfuckers are?

MATT: You can feel where they are, yeah. You can
sense them moving through the ground.

SAM: Oh shit. Everybody dies.

MARISHA: But I want to be underground. I'm there,
but I'm still underground right now.

MATT: Right. I'm marking your place.

MARISHA: Yeah.

TALIESIN: (singing) Underground!

MARISHA: (singing) Put on your earthglide shoes
and dance! (speaking) Okay, I want to go right

in the center of as many of them as I can hit and
take a cue from Scanlan and do a Thunderwave

underground.

MATT: As your earth elemental? Because you have--

MARISHA: Because I can cast in Wild Shape now.

SAM: He's going to the phone. He's checking his
texts.

TRAVIS: So if they're healing when we hit them, do
we think they're healing when they go back into

the wall?

TALIESIN: Probably.

MATT: Let me see here real fast. What are the
components of Thunderwave?

SAM: I will look for you!

MATT: Thunderwave is verbal and somatic. Right?

SAM: V, S!

MATT: Correct.

TRAVIS: Dude, that is a badass.

MATT: Just making sure, because there is a slight
limitation to druid spellcasting in beast form.

You're probably still good. Let me see.

MARISHA: Not using material components, you mean?

LAURA: He got bigger?

MARISHA: No, that's me. That's me, baby, that's
me.

LIAM: Should've seen the green.

MATT: Yeah, verbal and somatic, so you can do
that.

TALIESIN: Yeah!

MARISHA: I'm going to do it 3rd-level, too.

MATT: 15-foot cube, the most guys you can hit
would probably be these two here, clustered

together. Otherwise, everyone else is just a one
hit. They're too far spread out.

MARISHA: It's a 15-foot radius from you.

MATT: It's a 15-foot cube originating from you.
Meaning it's not a radial thing.

MARISHA: Oh, like a (explosion noise). Oh, cool!
Got it. Then I'll take those two dudes.

LIAM: So that's why Vax's feathers were prickling
the other time.

MATT: So you shift through over here, beneath the
ground.

LAURA: That's so cool.

MARISHA: (thudding noises) Underground!

LAURA: Look how much bigger she is than those
fucks!

MARISHA: That's not a great roll, but it'll do.

SAM: Do you get to reroll ones?

MARISHA: Ones and twos.

MATT: That's a 13 and a 17. So neither of them
make their save.

MARISHA: So that is 16 times two, so 32 damage to
both of them.

MATT: 32 points of damage to both of them.

SAM: Did they make saves?

MARISHA: No.

SAM: So they get pushed as well.

MARISHA: And they also get pushed ten feet. Yeah.

MATT: Well, they'd get pushed if they weren't in
the middle of the rock. They glide on their own.

They stay put.

MARISHA: Sure.

MATT: All right. So as you (whoosh) outward, you
send the shockwave, and you guys hear this loud,

thunderous (explosive thrum) beneath the ground.
And you watch as rock and dirt is thrown from this

wall. Poor Trinket is spattered with rock and dirt
and spins around (bear growling).

LAURA: Aw, buddy! You're okay!

MATT: That wall is not looking very sturdy right
now. The Thunderwave has structurally damaged this

whole portion of the cavern right now.

TRAVIS: Thanks, Keyleth.

MARISHA: This whole thing was coming apart!

MATT: That ends Keyleth's turn. Pike's up.

LIAM: What about between Grog and Scanlan? That
way if one of them comes up by either of them,

she's there.

MARISHA: Get Trinket away from that wall.

LAURA: Well, I would, if it was Trinket's turn.
Pike's going to run down and stand between Scanlan

and Grog.

MATT: All right.

LAURA: "Oh, Grog!"

LIAM: Punch the mace and light that shit up.

LAURA: Yeah.

LIAM: Blow hair out of her face.

MATT: Yeah, so she makes this beacon of light.

LAURA: And then she's going to hold her action
until a thing appears.

MATT: What is she holding?

LAURA: Attacking.

MATT: A physical attack? So as soon as one
appears, she's going to go ahead and swing. Okay,

good. So she's holding that. That ends Pike's
turn. Top of the round: Percival, you're up.

TALIESIN: I'm going to--

SAM: (whispers) No bonus action?

TALIESIN: What? Well, I'm going to use my bonus
action. Since there's nothing to attack at the

moment, I'm going to move slightly to the other
end of that little precipice that I'm on, over

where Keyleth disappeared.

MATT: Oh, over this side?

TALIESIN: Yeah, get away from things. I'm going to
use my bonus action to do a heal.

MATT: You guys traveled this way, and this is
where you saw the right and left split.

LAURA: Oh, right.

TALIESIN: That was embarrassing. So that's 11
points of damage. That's great. And then I'm going

to hold my attack until something approaches.

MATT: Okay. So you get your weapon ready. You're
holding it for any sort of movement out of a wall.

Got it.

TALIESIN: Yeah. Gun in one hand, sword in the
other.

MATT: All right, got it. Grog, you're up.

SAM: Why don't we just leave? There's no one
here.

TRAVIS: I know, that's what I'm doing. So there's
no enemies in sight?

MATT: Currently, no.

TRAVIS: Ah! Can I run as far as I can this way?

MATT: Yep.

TRAVIS: Is that like five, ten, 15, 20--

MATT: 50 is what you can get, right there.

TRAVIS: I'll take it.

MATT: All right, so that's your movement.

TRAVIS: Yep. I'm going to hold my attack until
something stupid shows me its face.

MATT: Okay, good to know. That ends your turn.
Vex.

LAURA: Okay. I'm going to call Trinket away from
the wall, so he's going to run down next to Grog.

MATT: Okay.

LAURA: And then I'm going to kick off and get on
my broom, so I'm off the ground.

MATT: Okay, so you get up, and you're now lifted
up into the air a bit.

MARISHA: You're still blind?

TALIESIN: No, I can see. We've got two light
sources now.

MARISHA: Okay.

TRAVIS: (singing) I believe I can--

MATT: You believe you can what?

TRAVIS: Fly?

LIAM: (singing) Fucking die.

TRAVIS: (singing) I believe I can touch--
(speaking) What does he touch?

SAM: The sky?

TRAVIS: The sky. (singing) I think about it
every--

MATT: Don't hurt yourself.

TRAVIS: I'm never singing in character.

LAURA: Don't speak!

TRAVIS: (singing) I know just what you're saying!

LAURA: How high is the ceiling in here?

LIAM: About 20 feet.

MATT: You are right up against this ceiling. It's
about 12 to 15 feet.

LAURA: Yeah, I'm going to want to hover right in
the middle. I don't want to be high up. I want to

be right between the ceiling and the floor.

MATT: Okay. So you're about a head's height up.

LAURA: Yeah. (Southern accent) And I'm going to
hold my action until I can see one of those things.

MATT: Arrow's notched, ready to fire?

LAURA: Uh-huh.

MATT: Okay. That brings us to Vax.

LIAM: Can I move ten feet closer to Scanlan,
and do the classic Van Damme movement and stand

between stalactites in the ceiling and hide with
my bonus action.

MATT: Right here?

LIAM: Yeah, and hide in the ceiling.

MARISHA: What?

TRAVIS: You going to Time Cop that shit?

MARISHA: That's awesome!

SAM: Are you doing the splits, right now, are your
legs--?

LIAM: Nah, I'm just using my feet for that. No, my
hands are occupied. With my feet, yeah.

MATT: Make a stealth check.

LIAM: Stealth check. Yeah, baby.

TALIESIN: Make a splits check.

LIAM: Ten. Do I still have sneaky sneak from you?

LAURA: Pass Without a Trace is still-- Oh, no. No,
I Hunter's Marked.

LIAM: That's fine. Pike, get out of the way!

TRAVIS: Don't you talk to her like that!

LIAM: 27. And I'll hold my attack action.

MATT: Okay. Scanlan.

SAM: We're all holding our shit?

LAURA: The minute something shows, we're all going
to be like, boom! But nothing's going to show.

SAM: Nothing's going to show? Which way were we
going when all this shit happened?

MATT: You were traveling this way, and this was
the split in the path ahead.

TALIESIN: So we're heading left?

SAM: Should we be trying to get out of here?

TRAVIS: Yeah.

TALIESIN: Let's get out of here. We don't need
this.

TRAVIS: By the way, we're supposed to go to the
left.

LAURA: Thanks, Grog.

LIAM: Oh, yeah. That's right.

TALIESIN: I would've made a run if I had been
thinking about it.

TRAVIS: What's right? The left?

LIAM: Right.

SAM: I will go 25 feet the same direction Grog
went in, because that's all I can run.

MATT: 25. That will get you up here next to
Percival.

LAURA: Oh no!

LIAM: He's dead! Right before the end of the
story!

TRAVIS: Five points of bludgeoning damage.

TALIESIN: (whispering) Stop it!

LIAM: Sorry, Perce.

SAM: I'm sorry, Matt, I'm sorry. I'm going to go
in the opposite direction. I don't want to be in

this fucking cluster. It's a mess up there. I'm
going the opposite direction.

LAURA: Down there? Why does it matter that we're
clustered?

SAM: I don't care! I'm getting away from you
fuckers. And I'm turning invisible.

(laughter)

LIAM: They come out: "Where did they go?"

TALIESIN: The question is, did you turn invisible,
then run?

LAURA: Yeah, they can still sense you!

SAM: Oh shit! I don't know these things!

LAURA: And then we won't know that you didn't get
sucked under!

TRAVIS: And if you attack, your Invisibility
drops.

LAURA: Oh, shut up, that's so cool!

TRAVIS: You've got an invisible woman mini!

LIAM: That is my daughter's miniature.

TRAVIS: That is rad.

SAM: And as a bonus action, I will Healing Word
myself.

MATT: You'd have to do Healing Word first.

SAM: Huh? Oh, first, because--

MATT: Because if you cast a spell, you lose
Invisibility.

SAM: So I would do it first.

MATT: Yeah, you can do that. All right, that ends
Scanlan's turn. All right.

LIAM: Oh. Shit.

SAM: Seven more forms show up.

MATT: First off, let's see--

TRAVIS: Deuces wild.

LIAM: Light them up!

MATT: This one is going to emerge from under the
ground--

MARISHA: Do I get an attack of opportunity?

MATT: Hold on. You do not. What is the range on
your fists?

LIAM: 50 feet.

LAURA: Ten feet.

MATT: If it's a ten-foot range on the elemental,
then you would, but--

MARISHA: It doesn't say! How do you know?

MATT: Under the slam attack, it should say range:
five foot? Melee attack?

MARISHA: No.

MATT: What does it say?

MARISHA: No, no, it doesn't. No.

MATT: Okay, then.

MARISHA: I just don't, okay. No! Range: ten feet!
It does say range: ten feet.

MATT: That's what I was asking for.

MARISHA: I didn't know!

MATT: You can use your reaction to get an attack
of opportunity on it. As he glides away from you

and underneath, you get one swing at him. He gets
a plus five to his AC. Actually no, he wouldn't,

because you have earthglide.

MARISHA: 21.

MATT: 21 hits. Go ahead and roll damage with the
fist. So you slam him within the stonework.

TALIESIN: I love that you're actually being a
badass where no one can see.

MARISHA: 15.

MATT: 15 points of damage, all right. As you slam
it, your fists gliding through the rock like it

was air, and slamming into the side, pushing it
even further forward, it swoops underneath. And

with a giant uppercut as it emerges from the
ground, the earth swings up to try and consume

both Grog and Trinket. I need you both to make a
dexterity saving throw, Trinket and Grog.

LAURA: Oh no!

TRAVIS: Oh shit. Danger sense!

LAURA: Oh no, he rolled a one! Oh no, this was a
fan gift.

TRAVIS: 15.

MATT: Both of you, your vision goes dark as the
earth rises up to consume the space around you.

Both Grog and Trinket are currently restrained and
blinded within the earth.

LAURA: Oh no! Is Trinket right next to Grog, at
least?

MATT: Yeah, they're within a close area.

SAM: Grog, you're inspired.

TRAVIS: Oh! It's too late for that.

MATT: I would say so, the action's already
happened. If you want to, you can. It's what it's

there for.

LIAM: We have a nice DM.

TRAVIS: 18.

MATT: 18. All right, you barely manage to avoid--

LAURA: Oh, now Trinket's all alone!

TRAVIS: You are most gracious.

MATT: So as the rock comes up to consume you, it
covers over both of you. And there's a brief

moment of silence before Grog bursts out and steps
up onto the stone, unaffected by the impact. And

that's its full speed, so it can't earthglide
again. This one here is going to scoot and appear

right around the edge on that side.

LIAM: That's in range for me?

MATT: It is, yes.

LAURA: And me?

MATT: Roll a perception check.

LAURA: Yeah, that's a thing.

LIAM: 24.

MATT: That hits. And you do manage to--

LAURA: 26!

MATT: You do see it, so you can, if you want.

LAURA: Okay.

MATT: Yeah, sorry, I got a notification on my iPad
that went like, "no music."

LIAM: Am I effectively sneak attacking the fool?

MATT: No.

LIAM: No. All right.

MATT: The tremor sense-- As you put your feet
against the stalactites, it seems to know where

you are.

LIAM: Cool. Sharpshooter for both.

LAURA: The first one definitely hits. The second
one is 18.

MATT: That hits.

LAURA: Awesome!

LIAM: 28 and 26 for me.

LAURA: Are you fucking kidding me? He's not
Hunter's Marked.

LIAM: 38 combined, for my two. My paladin
attacks.

LAURA: 27, combined.

MATT: Damage?

LAURA: Yeah.

MATT: Okay. As it emerges from behind, you watch
as it brings back both of its fists to attempt to

slam into the ground where Scanlan is currently
standing.

SAM: He can't see me. Don't worry.

(laughter)

MATT: Yeah. His heavy footfalls still touching and
moving the earth in the vicinity, its tremor sense

still notifying it of your base location. As he
goes to swing both of his fists--

SAM: I'm mocking him.

MATT: A flurry of daggers and arrows go flying
through the air (whoosh) slamming into it before

its fist can come down. Its chest is detonated
from the impact, the rock and shale scattering

against the sides of the wall, its form destroyed
and scattered.

MARISHA: Kill it!

LIAM: That's a pretty fucking killer twin moment,
right there.

TRAVIS: I've got to ask, when the creepy rock guy
popped up near me, is he within my held action?

MATT: Unfortunately, no. He's about ten feet from
you. You've hit in the space, but the bear was

closer to him.

TRAVIS: Fair enough. I just stare at him.

MATT: Yes, you do.

This fellow here emerges right behind
Percival, right there. And is going to attempt to

make two swing attacks at you.

TALIESIN: I make two attacks on him before
anything happens, anyway.

MATT: Mm-hmm. Go for it.

TRAVIS: He's a little drunk. He's got that Soulja
lean going on.

MATT: Is this with your gun?

TALIESIN: No, this is sword.

MATT: Yeah.

TALIESIN: Too close. I knew they would jump, so.
That's 22 and 24.

LAURA: I need more coffee.

LIAM: You're at your most dashing when you use
your sword.

TALIESIN: Yes, you know. That's 26 points of
damage. Oh, wait! I get three attacks, don't I,

that's right?

MATT: Yeah! Because you're on fire, dude!

TALIESIN: That's right. 26 points of damage plus--
Oh yeah, that definitely hits. Plus eight more

points of damage.

MATT: All right. So as it emerges from the wall,
coming toward you. You do this triple strike

against it. And it manages to carve across part of
its chest, but its momentum is still strong, and

both fists come to the side to hit you and rattle
you from both sides. That is a 16?

TALIESIN: Nope!

MATT: Misses! And a 24.

TALIESIN: And that hits.

MATT: So you manage to deflect one blow, the other
one clocks you on the side of the head. That is 11

points of bludgeoning damage.

TALIESIN: Yeah, okay. There's all the healing I
just did. It's all gone.

MATT: All right. And now this fellow here is going
to swoop over and slam the ground near Pike.

LAURA: Oh, good! She can attack him!

MATT: The range on this is a ten by ten-foot cube,
so he's going to do it before he gets in melee

range of her, she's right there. So as it glides
toward her, it slams the ground, and the earth is

going to attempt to consume her. She needs to make
a dexterity saving throw.

LAURA: I want to do it.

LIAM: Okay, you do it.

LAURA: I should not have claimed this.

TRAVIS: With that dice?

LAURA: Oh. We don't add anything to it.

LIAM: It is a big seven.

MATT: And with that, the ground consumes Pike, who
is now buried, blinded, and restrained within.

LAURA: She was saving her action, though!

MATT: And with the rest of its movement, it's
going to sink into the ground. We'll say--

(counting) Yeah, it'll sink into the ground. Just
out of range. I'll put it here, just to mention

where it is, but consider it's not prone, it's
underground.

LIAM: It means he gave it rum tongue.

MATT: You're going to die tonight.

(laughter)

TRAVIS: With such dedication!

MATT: This one here is going to swing back
around--

TALIESIN: Attack of opportunity!

MATT: She already took one. One reaction. This one
bursts out of the ground to leap towards you. As it

emerges, it looks up and sees you just within its
range, it does have a bit of a reach. And it leaps

to go ahead and make two swings at you. Natural
one. You manage to pull back with the broom and it

swings wide and lands on the ground, and it's
going to attempt to go with another uppercut in

your direction. That is a 15.

LAURA: It doesn't hit. I put my foot on its fist
and--

MATT: (laughs) Ding! No effect on that. And that's
going to end its turn, that's his full move. All right,

so that brings us to Keyleth.

MARISHA: Okay. Do I see Trinket underground?

MATT: You can sense Trinket is currently buried.

LAURA: Oh my god, thank you so much!

MARISHA: Jesus, that scared the shit out of me.

SAM: You said "I want coffee," and you got
coffee?

LAURA: I know! But I didn't think anybody was
going to do it, really!

MATT: I want a pony!

SAM: I want ice cream!

TALIESIN: Fly into the air!

TRAVIS: I want that PowerBall winnings.

MATT: If anyone could do it, Ryan Green could. All
righty. So, Keyleth, you can sense Trinket is

buried over there, and Pike.

MARISHA: Do I go for the bear, or do I go for the
gnome?

LAURA: Go for the gnome!

MARISHA: All right, can I get to Pike in 50 feet?

MATT: What's your movement?

MARISHA: 50.

MATT: 50 feet glide? You can.

MARISHA: Okay. Can I very gently grab the gnome,
and then siege monster bust us out?

MATT: Okay, make a strength check. I'll give you
advantage because you are a siege monster.

TRAVIS: Because you're a siege monster!

MARISHA: I'm a siege monster!

LIAM: Is it like reaching into a sack for you,
even though it's the earth?

MARISHA: It's like air, he said. I will take that
17, that is much better. For a 22.

MATT: With no issue, you punch through the massive
rock and earth right there, and you emerge out of

it like a shoryuken, clutching Pike in your left
arm as you land back on your elemental feet in

that space, bringing both of you--

MARISHA: (excited earth elemental grunting)

TRAVIS: (answering grunts) It sounds like a
concrete mixer.

MATT: All righty. I believe that ends your turn?

MARISHA: I can't do anything else, probably.

MATT: Pike can, because it's her turn.

MARISHA: But Pike can! So holding little Pike like
a voodoo doll, like a flashlight.

MATT: Do things!

LAURA: That means she can still attack?

MATT: She can, yeah.

LAURA: She can't see anything, though.

MATT: No, she can, now. Keyleth just pulled her
out of the rubble and is holding her in front.

LAURA: No, I mean, there's nothing to attack in
front of her.

LIAM: What's this thing on the ground?

LAURA: He's underground, still.

TALIESIN: So there's two above ground, but they're
behind her.

MARISHA: But I'm holding Pike! Can she see?

LIAM: Can you throw her?

LAURA: We're holding a physical action, so she has
to be next to something in order to attack it.

MARISHA: Oh.

TRAVIS: That's why mine didn't happen, either.

MATT: Yeah, she can do whatever she wants.

LIAM: And it would be an action to chuck her,
though, right?

MATT: Yeah, she already pulled her free with her
action, so--

LAURA: Did you use all your movement?

MATT: She did.

MARISHA: To get there.

MATT: Well, actually, you had ten more feet, if
you wanted to.

LAURA: Can you get within ten feet of something?
Five feet of something.

MATT: No, unfortunately, no.

LIAM: I mean, we could drop her where the thing
disappeared. It's still a crapshoot, but it's

better than nothing. "Drop me on the ground,
Keyleth!"

LAURA: "I want to be able to hit it if it comes
up!"

MARISHA: (agreeing elemental grunts) (heavy thud)

MATT: Sets the gnome down on the ground. That ends
Keyleth's turn. Now it's Pike's go.

LIAM: Okay, she is going to still just hold her
turn--

LAURA: Oh man! Should she do a cantrip? She should
do a Resistance or something?

LIAM: She could do it on herself, just in case.
Yeah, cast Resistance on herself in case--

LAURA: But that's an action, it's not a bonus.

LIAM: Instead, she's going to look at the ground
and go, "Monstah!" And hold her mace.

MATT: So she's holding her action to attack,
perfect. Percival, you're up. Top of the round.

TALIESIN: I'm going to pull out the gun and take
three shots at that thing that's swinging at Vex.

MATT: Okay, go for it.

TALIESIN: Yeah! Oof, that's close. That's a 19?

MATT: 19 hits.

TALIESIN: Then the rest of them hit, too. It's
like 21 and 20, so let's get some d10s out.

MARISHA: Do you need some more?

TALIESIN: No, I got enough. Some d10s and some
d6s. So here we go. (counting) That's 12 points of

psychic damage.

TRAVIS: (makes weird noise)

TALIESIN: I don't know what that was.

LIAM: There is weird energy at this table!

MATT: Okay, the first shot? As you reach over and
fire at that one, you hit it, and you watch as it

scatters into stones across the far--

TALIESIN: I'll put the first shot at that, and
then shift the next two to the other one.

MATT: Yep. They have the same AC.

TALIESIN: Okay, so that's seven points of psychic
damage, and 36 points of normal damage!

MATT: To that one?

TALIESIN: Yeah.

MATT: Okay, as the second one does blast a large
chunk out of its torso and side, it still stands

there with its angered arms open, ready to swing at
whatever comes at it.

TALIESIN: Okay, I'm good!

MATT: All right, that ends Percival's turn. Grog,
you're up.

TRAVIS: (grunts) Can I run over to the thing--

MATT: You're standing above Trinket now.

TRAVIS: It's just a pound of earth, right? I don't
hear anything, or see any fur or claws?

MATT: No, not in a rage, you don't.

TRAVIS: Fuck that shit! I reckless, Great Weapon
Master attack old Boney Face! Oh, that's terrible.

That's better! Thank god for reckless! Sorry, 30
minus five, 25!

MATT: That hits.

TRAVIS: Yes! 33, plus the necrotic damage.

LAURA: I'm going to help. I'm right there.

SAM: Is there a guy next to you?

LAURA: That's what I'm going to be aiming at,
darling.

TRAVIS: Second attack. 26.

MATT: That hits.

TRAVIS: 28. No, 38!

MATT: 38. Okay! As you stand over Trinket, the
first hit cleaves into the center of its chest,

and wedges itself there, and you see the rocks
forming over the axe, almost trying to pull it

into its body to pull it from your grip. And as
you do, instead you reach down and put your foot

onto its chest and yank it outward. And as you do,
as most of it began to form over the axe, it

bisects it in two and it crumples into a pile of
dirt on the ground.

(cheering)

MATT: So you still have 45 feet of movement.

TRAVIS: Should I run down this tunnel and see
what's down here?

MARISHA: Yeah.

TRAVIS: Yeah?

LIAM: No! No!

LAURA: He's raging! He doesn't have logic!

TRAVIS: Can I see him from wherever I am? This
enemy?

MATT: Yeah, I'd say you can. He's emerged. You can
see the movement.

TRAVIS: I'll run up and join Percy.

MATT: Okay. So you charge up beside, leap onto
this platform of soft earth and rock, and it's

right there next to you.

TRAVIS: Nice.

MATT: All right, that ends your turn. Vex.

LAURA: Okay, I'm going to move my Hunter's Mark
over to that dude (radar sounds) and then I'm

going to attack him with sharpshooter!

LIAM: (laughs) Didgeridoos?

TRAVIS and TALIESIN: Yep.

SAM: Your Hunter's Mark sounds like Didgeridoos.
Or rain sticks.

LAURA: So I'm at 20?

MATT: 20 hits, yeah.

LAURA: Okay. This is so weird!

TALIESIN: This is super serious, you guys.

LAURA: Four lightning damage.

SAM: Don't worry, you'll be sleeping a lot at
Burning Man.

LAURA: 28 for the first arrow. Plus the four
lightning damage.

MATT: Yeah.

LAURA: And then the second attack is also
sharpshooter, and that one hits.

MATT: Okay. Even with the minus five?

LAURA: Yes. Definitely.

LIAM: Sam, when everyone leaves, all their stress
will enter you and I.

TALIESIN: I'm very excited about that.

LAURA: Six lightning damage.

MARISHA: Like a lich. A phylactery.

LAURA: 19! Oh! And I didn't add plus 20 to both of
those! Plus 20 overall because of the

sharpshooter.

MATT: All right. So with that, as you see it
crawling towards Percival, trying to grow and leap

at it, and Grog leaps up in its way, there's a
very little space where you can actually see its

movement. And as you watch Grog pull back with the
axe to almost go for a secondary strike, that

brief opening, you see you have both arrows
notched and releasing both at the same time and as

it does it sinks into both of the sockets where
the dark void of its eyes were. And it goes

(creaking, crashing) and then falls into scattered
pieces of rock.

LAURA: You're welcome!

TALIESIN: Oh, very nice.

MATT: All right. Do you want to move, or stay
where you are?

LAURA: I'm going to stay.

MATT: All right. Vax, you're up.

LAURA: Wait! What about Trinket? Can he try to
save against it?

MATT: I'll say I'll give you an action for Trinket
instead of an attack to attempt to break free.

Make a strength check. Strength saving throw.

LAURA: I don't know what the difference for a
saving throw for Trinket would be.

MATT: Strength modifier.

LAURA: 15.

MATT: 15? Unfortunately, cannot break free. It's
not strong enough.

LAURA: Can I hear him? Does he make noise?

MATT: You listen, and you hear the shifting of
rock. That's it.

LAURA: I don't even know it's Trinket, do I?

MATT: Yeah, you don't.

LAURA: I aim my bow at it.

MATT: Okay. Vax, what are you doing?

LIAM: I'm going to fly over and land on Keyleth's
shoulder and hold my attack for as soon as the

fucknut appears.

MATT: Okay.

LIAM: Perch. Dagon.

MATT: Like your own personal raven. All right,
ending Vax's turn. Scanlan, you're up.

SAM: I will use my insane climbing speed of ten?

(laughter)

SAM: To climb up that tree-like stalagmite.

MATT: This technically is a root, and you climb up
into it.

SAM: I will hold my attack until I see something
come out of somewhere.

MATT: Okay, so your weapon's at the ready?

SAM: My Wand of Magic Missiles.

MATT: Okay. Great. All right, so that ends
Scanlan's turn. At this point, shifting beneath

the ground and emerging right there behind Pike--

LAURA: She's attacking it.

TRAVIS: It gets to act first.

LAURA: Does it? No, she gets to act first. Yeah!
So that's 24 to attack.

MATT: 24 to attack? That hits.

LIAM: And she'll use divine whatsit. Divine
Strike.

LAURA: She always gets that now.

LIAM: Once a round.

LAURA: That's 2d6 plus four radiant damage, so
ten, 14.

LIAM: Plus 2d8.

TRAVIS: I thought that went in the coffee.

LAURA: Should that count?

SAM: You didn't intentionally roll it.

LIAM: Do it again.

LAURA: It's not as good as the unintentional, but
that's okay. 19.

MATT: 19?

LAURA: Yeah. Does she just attack the once?

LIAM: Yeah, and if it's still standing, dagger,
dagger, dagger.

MATT: Hold on. Let me check one thing real fast.
The war cleric... Actually, yeah, because it's a

bonus action to do that. Against that one? How
does Pike want to do this?

(cheering)

TRAVIS: Pikey!

LAURA: She goes, "Grog, watch this!"

TRAVIS: I can't see anything because a person's in
the way.

LAURA: You can see; you're big.

LIAM: She does an underswing right up between its
legs and hits it in the goolies.

MATT: As she does, the glowing mace scatters
upward, breaking layer after layer of rock and

earth. Its upper torso explodes into the ceiling,
a shower of small pebbles and errant pieces of

earth are smeared across the wall and scatter to
the ground.

TRAVIS: Untamed monster!

LIAM: She gives it three or four more hits on the
ground out of frustration.

LAURA: Yeah, because she got trapped.

LIAM: Yep.

MARISHA: I go rescue the bear.

LAURA: Be careful! I think there's another
elemental right there.

MARISHA: Are there any more?

LAURA: I think Trinket's an elemental.

MATT: As you guys all make your way over to the
pile, as it's shifting and moving, you all prepare

your weaponry for what might emerge. Make a
perception check, Vex.

LAURA: Oh no, don't you make me attack my own
bear. Oh no. 17?

MATT: That's plenty. The moment you see some of
the movement push through, a claw begins to emerge

from it and your arrow pulls back, ready to
release, but the moment it's there, you

immediately wonder how you could have made that
mistake.

LAURA: Trinket! I run.

MATT: All of you rush over and begin to help
Trinket free.

LIAM: I place my hand on Scanlan's shoulder and
say: I'm sorry. I know this is hard for you. The

bear lives.

SAM: And I say from the top of the tree, I don't
know who you're touching, but I'm up on top of a tree.

LIAM: I'm flying!

SAM: I'm invisible.

(laughter)

LIAM: There's a lot of rules in this game. Staying
on theme for the night.

SAM: Yes, I know. It lives, for now. I was holding
my action; I could blast the bear with my wand.

She wouldn't even know where I was coming from.

LAURA: I would see you the minute you attacked.

SAM: (whispering) Oh, she's right.

(laughter)

MATT: So this battle has transpired in the length
of one stride of the Titan, as the other footfall

lands, (thumping) one portion of the wall begins
to shake and fall in and this side of the tunnel

begins to collapse.

LAURA: Oh, we got to take off, we got to start
moving.

MARISHA: Keyleth blocks as much as she can and
goes (earth elemental speaking).

LAURA: Run. I think she's saying run.

MATT: So as you guys dart down and head left into
the hallway, your earth elemental form allows you

with quite a bit of strength to force it and
prevent it from causing the entire tunnel to

collapse. Just half of it does, and holding that
in space you guys begin to charge down the left

side of the tunnel.

LAURA: As we're running I cast Pass Without A
Trace again. Should I?

LIAM: Sure, sure.

And I pat your big stony face and give it a
kiss and fly down the hall.

LAURA: Okay, never mind, I don't cast it.

MATT: Okay. As you guys continue down the left
path for about 50 or so feet, it curves rapidly to

the left and stops at a cylindrical chamber. It's
still a cavernous space, but it has a cylindrical

shape to it. About 40 feet in diameter, about 50
feet tall at its apex, and in the center of it,

you see a partially collapsed dark stone pavilion
or small temple.

LIAM: At the bottom in the middle?

MATT: Well, you guys turn and it's in the center
of this chamber that rises up before you in the

center of this small, egg-shaped opening, the
space. And you see this made of a deep, dark,

grayish, almost black stone structure that looks
beautifully made. The craftwork is distinctly dwarven.

LAURA: Is it old?

MATT: You can go make an investigation check on it
if you'd like.

LIAM: I'm going to do Divine Sense again.

MATT: Okay.

LIAM: For undead.

TRAVIS: They're everywhere.

MATT: You do sense--

LIAM: Specifically a location.

MATT: --specifically within the heart of this
structure.

LAURA: Is this--? No, this is not mountain.

TRAVIS: (laughs) No!

LAURA: This is titan.

TRAVIS: (Laura voice) Is this favored terrain?

MATT: This would be considered subterranean. It
would be like an underground.

LAURA: Okay, so not Underdark?

MATT: Not Underdark, no. The structure, however,
is somewhat damaged from a collapse on one side of

the wall. You watch as part of the chamber on the
right side has come loose and this rockslide has

jammed into the side of the structure. And looking
past the craggy piles of loose rock, you can see

shattered glass across the ground, and part of the
rock as the rockslide has pushed into one of these

glass panels that marks the exterior of the small,
gazebo-like temple structure. It seems to have

filled, from what you can see at least at this
distance, a portion of the interior as well. There

is a double door in the front that is currently
closed and the right side of the door is buried

partially by the remainder of this rockslide that
has come to a halt at the base of the structure.

LAURA: Do we know what gods dwarves worshipped? Do
they have specific gods?

MATT: Make a religion check.

LIAM: These are dead dwarves.

Pike starts whispering, "I can technically
destroy dead things, so, if we sneak me up to the

"outside of the wall--"

LAURA: Five.

MATT: I mean, you ran into the Allfather's space
before, but not every dwarf worships the

Allfather. Just like any other free race in the
world, religion's up for grabs.

TALIESIN: Knowing the history of this city, would
we know what this is?

MATT: You don't know what this is at first glance.
The structure seems ceremonial or at least

important.

It seems to have been placed here with intent away
from a large part of society.

TALIESIN: It's not a crypt or anything like that?
Or a very expensive crypt.

MATT: It could be.

TRAVIS: Do we see the inside of the gazebo-type
structure?

LIAM: How big is it, too?

MATT: How big is it? It's about, maybe, I'd say,
35 feet wide? It almost fills the entirety of the

chamber. There's like a slight space behind it,
except for the fact that part of the wall

collapsed into it and is burying the right side of
the structure.

TRAVIS: Colored glass?

MATT: Looking at the glass, it's multiple colors.
Looks to be of stained glass type, and it's a

thick glass. And there is one intact window of
stained glass on the opposite side and there is

the double doors currently that keep it shut.

TALIESIN: Is there an image on the stained glass.
Is it depicting something?

MATT: It looks to depict a dwarvish-like figure,
adorned in golden armor, that stands at the

precipice of a mountain, with a series of smaller
dwarf-like entities in shadow all around looking

up at it. It's very simple when you get up close
to it, but the further back you go, it's a

beautiful arrangement.

TALIESIN: I bet it's a crypt, which means that
it's trapped, and I bet that means there's

something expensive and interesting inside.

LIAM: DM, question.

MATT: Yes.

LIAM: Because I can't remember for sure, didn't,
in our story somewhere, we come up with a solution

for Pike's noisiness? Something that quieted her
down?

LAURA: She had stealth boots.

MATT: Yes, her boots, they gave her advantage on
stealth, which meant that she just made a regular roll.

LIAM: Regular roll.

MATT: Yes.

MARISHA: We made her that armor that we never went
back and picked up because we fucked up.

LAURA: Yeah, but it doesn't matter because she's
got the Dawnmartyr.

LIAM: She casts Guidance on herself to help with
that roll.

TRAVIS: I'm with you. I think this thing has a
yield.

TALIESIN: Yeah, I'm feeling it.

SAM: Break all the glass, go inside.

MARISHA: I touch the ground, still in my earth
elemental form, do I sense anything? Tremor sense?

Any vibrations?

MATT: You feel for it. Nothing in the immediate vicinity.
However, another footfall hits from the titan and

it causes the entirety of the chamber to quake and
it's almost like, you know when Superman opens up

his perception too wide and hears all the voices?

MARISHA: Yep, mm-hmm.

MATT: Everything around you shakes with such an
intense ferocity, it causes your head to shake briefly.

LIAM: I have another DM question.

MATT: Yes.

LIAM: For paladins, "Until the end of your next
turn, you know the location of any undead within

"60 feet," so that implies number.

MATT: Correct.

LIAM: If I know the location of any, so how many
am I sensing?

MATT: One.

LIAM: One. Okay.

LAURA: Do you know where? Can you sense where it
is?

MATT: It's in the center of this structure.

LIAM: Center.

TALIESIN: All right. Let's do this.

MARISHA: Oh. Okay.

LAURA: You want to fight it?

TALIESIN: I bet there's something really nice
inside.

LIAM: Also, I mean, if Pike can get up and get a
peek in, she could take a first shot at turning

it. Turnt. Stay turnt.

MARISHA: So there are the double doors and then
it's a cave-in on one side?

MATT: On one side, and it's broken one of two sets
of stained glass on the front of it, and it seems

to have filled part of the interior. Currently,
there isn't enough space in that window to climb

in. It's filled with rock. You could try and move
stuff out of the way, or go through the doors, or

break the other windows. Those are the only types
of entrance you can find.

LAURA: And there's no other exit from this
cylindrical chamber?

MATT: That you see, no.

LAURA: Okay.

LIAM: I wonder if getting Pike on the broom or the
rug could improve her chances of sneaking up to

the door as well, and get a peek in, and try to
turn whatever's inside?

LAURA: Oh, I mean we could try it. I'll put Pike
on the broom.

LIAM: Okay.

LAURA: And we'll fly over to the side of the
cave-in?

MARISHA: I can just earth glide under and peek
up.

LAURA: Yeah, but she can turn undead.

TRAVIS: But how many times can she do that in a
day? Is that a pull the trigger and once? Do we

want to waste it on something--

LAURA: As an action.

LIAM: Unlimited.

LAURA: As an action.

TRAVIS: Okay.

MATT: It's an action.

MARISHA: Is it a spell?

LIAM: No.

TRAVIS: I mean it could be an undead--

MATT: A Channel Divinity, is that what you're
talking about?

LAURA: Yeah.

TALIESIN: It just works.

LAURA: Oh wait, you can use your Channel Divinity
twice between rests.

LIAM: Okay, so she can do that. She's got a couple
of other things she can do with this ability.

LAURA: And is she 18th level?

LIAM: She's 18th level.

LAURA: Ooh, so now she can do it three times
between rests.

LIAM: It's worth a shot, because we could one-shot
a thing, possibly.

MATT: She's 17th right now-- oh no, I think she
just leveled up. I'll double check. No, because

you just hit 18th.

SAM: I just hit 18th.

MATT: Yep, so she's still 17th.

LIAM: Possible one shot.

TRAVIS: Might just be a dwarven king.

TALIESIN: Let's see what happens.

SAM: Let's do it.

MATT: Let me double check.

MARISHA: Probably is, he's just undead now.

LAURA: So we should try to get her in and turn
him?

TALIESIN: Yeah.

LAURA: Okay. Yeah, let's do that.

TRAVIS: Or he's totally encased by the material
and if we unearth him--

MARISHA: It could be bad.

TRAVIS: Yep.

MARISHA: Or he's unearthed and-- yeah he could be
blocking a--

TRAVIS: Let sleeping dogs lie?

MARISHA: Yeah.

LAURA: Percy really wants to find treasure.

TALIESIN: Well, which is always a bad sign, but
there it is.

TRAVIS: Yeah, let's do this!

SAM: In what realm of possibility are we not going
into this thing?

LAURA: Well, we could just turn around and walk
away and find our way up to the city!

SAM: Have we ever done that?

TRAVIS: Go check that door before I do.

LAURA: All right.

LIAM: You guys go, everybody hang back.

TALIESIN: Check for traps!

LIAM: Yeah, do I spot anything? Here comes the
roll.

LAURA: Okay, okay, okay, I'm going to cast Pass
Without A Trace on us now.

TALIESIN: I'm keeping my distance and pulling out
the rifle and I'm pointing, if anything needs

shooting, I'm going to shoot it.

MARISHA: I'm going to be with him by this door.

MATT: So you--?

LIAM: Checking for traps, investigation right?
20.

MATT: All right, so 20. As you go towards the
door, you can look around and see the door before

you. It's partially buried and it isn't locked,
but you can see there are some runic carvings

along the perimeter of the doorway, similar to
what you saw earlier on the pieces of stone when

you first entered, and there are signs of forced
entry. It looks like there are parts of the stone

that have been chipped, familiar to you from
people that use crowbars or other materials to

break into entry places. It looks like there have
been signs of forced entry in the past.

LIAM: However, there's still an undead thing
inside.

MARISHA: It could just be a fight? Deplete us
down.

LIAM: But I don't find any traps?

MATT: You do not find any traps in the door, no.

LAURA: It could just be a fight to take away our
stuff, before we go to a bigger fight.

MARISHA: Correct.

MATT: All you find is the door on the left appears
to be unlocked and you could possibly push it

open, and you see the dwarven writing on the
outside of the wall.

LIAM: (sighs)

MARISHA: Ah, come on. We're running out of time.

TRAVIS: What are we fucking pretending like--

LAURA: Yeah, fine.

LIAM: Can we see, well, can Pike, "Can I see into
the hovel?"

MATT: Do you want to push the door open and have a
look inside?

LIAM: Oh, it's closed?

MATT: The door is closed, you can see--

TRAVIS: Oh, hold on, hold on. There are runes, of
which I can read.

MARISHA: Oh, five minutes go by, and--?

TRAVIS: Don't knock it, all right, just be
grateful. Can I try to take a look at the

Dwarvish?

MATT: You may.

TRAVIS: Yeah!

MATT: It takes you roughly 15 or so minutes.

LAURA: Oh my god, come on! We cannot wait for 15
minutes!

LIAM: Vax's wings go (poof).

MATT: Yeah, the wings vanish. You can take a short
rest if you guys would like to.

LAURA: While he's doing that?

TRAVIS: I'm Professor X.

MATT: It'll take a while, so it means you lose
your invisibility--

MARISHA: I mean, might as well.

MATT: All right so you guys can take your hit dice
as a short rest. Your form reverts, which if you

wanted to try and peek within, you couldn't anyway,
because it's worked stone so you can't glide through that.

The words you pull out from this are, "The
last king, stalwart warrior of our mountain

"secrets, his might unmatched, his will unbroken,
his passing invites the madness."

TRAVIS: Shit, okay, all right. It's been worth the
wait. It is the last king, there's like a secret

buried with him and his death brought on the
madness. So like, there's definitely treasure with

him down there.

MARISHA: Unless it's already been raided?

TALIESIN: I think he's still in there and he's
maybe been turning people mad.

That would be my guess.

LIAM: The last king.

SAM: There's a king in there?

LAURA: What, say it again?

TRAVIS: He's the last king, there's like, the
secret with--

MATT: "Stalwart warrior of our mountain secrets."

SAM: Mountain dwarf?

MARISHA: Stalwart warrior of our mountain
secrets.

LIAM: "When I'm turning undead, if they're like
little piddly guys, they blow up, but if he's a

"king he might not blow up."

TALIESIN: Okay, then we can--

LIAM: "So he might get scared of me, or nothing,
I don't know?"

SAM: (laughs) Double Pike is the best Pike.

MATT: Grog, you do not get a short rest
unfortunately.

TRAVIS: Nope.

MATT: Because you were studying.

TRAVIS: Thank you. I'm working real hard.

SAM: Hey, for hit point counts here, I'm under the
impression that we had some bonus hit points from

some speech or something? Do we heal those as
well?

TALIESIN: No.

MARISHA: Yes.

TALIESIN: Oh, you do?

MARISHA: Yeah, it's plus 18 to your maximum hit
points.

MATT: No, no, no, that's from Heroes Feast.

SAM: Which we did not do.

MARISHA: Oh, I'm sorry, it's just temporary hit
points.

MATT: It's temporary hit points from your
speech.

MARISHA: But you don't get them back. Right,
right, okay.

TRAVIS: When they're gone, they're gone.

MARISHA: Then, yeah.

TRAVIS: What do you think, should we dig him up,
or move on?

SAM: Time is of the essence.

LIAM: "Well, time is of the essence, he could have
something useful. It seems like a coin flip."

TRAVIS: It says he has a secret with him. Right?
Like a secret? A prize?

MATT: All it says is "stalwart warrior of our
mountain secrets".

TRAVIS: Oh yeah, a "'stow' of our mountain
secrets."

LIAM: "That's tempting," Liam said.

LAURA: You should open the door.

LIAM: Yeah, of course.

LAURA: You should open the door.

LIAM: Yeah, all right, so--

TALIESIN: We are nasty enough that if we have to
put this thing down, we put this thing down.

LIAM: Pickle, are you ready to go? "Yeah!" Okay,
shhh. I'm going to try and open it

as silent as possible.

MATT: Make a strength check.

LIAM: Strength check?

MATT: It's a heavy stone door.

LIAM: Good grief.

MATT: Partially buried in rubble. It's not locked
but it is somewhat--

LIAM: 16.

MATT: 16?

LIAM: Yeah.

MATT: For you? Is Pike helping?

LAURA: Yeah!

LIAM: Yeah, sure.

MATT: Have Pike roll as well. Her strength is 19
so it's +4 to what she rolls.

LAURA: 16.

MATT: Okay, you both (grunting). It shifts like a
quarter inch and then locks into place from

something.

LIAM: Enough to see in?

MATT: No. The doors are about that thick.

LIAM: "Grog--"

TRAVIS: And I walk up and fucking hammer that
shit.

LAURA: No, Grog!!

LIAM: Pike goes like this (yells) as soon as the
door opens.

MATT: All right, go ahead and roll an attack.

TALIESIN: Titanstone Knuckles?

TRAVIS: Yeah. Double damage!

MARISHA: Yeah.

LIAM: I mean, as soon as Pike sees him flex, she's
got her hands--

LAURA: Ready to Turn Undead.

TRAVIS: 17.

MATT: All right, so go ahead and roll damage.
We'll say 1d4 for your fists

plus your strength modifier.

TRAVIS: Ten!

MATT: Ten. So that's 20 points of damage, because
it's doubled. As you slam your fist into the stone

door, the door cracks and part of it
splinters and falls, toppling past your

shoulders and bouncing you in the head a bit. The door
suffered severe damage and probably wouldn't

sustain another blow.

MARISHA: I mean--

TALIESIN: Go ahead.

TRAVIS: Fee fi fo fum!

MATT: (laughs) Roll an attack again.

TRAVIS: That is a 15.

MATT: 15, yeah, that's enough. That's just enough.
You slam a second time, you don't have to roll

damage. Even with the additional modifier it's
enough. The door (crumbling) crumples inward and

falls inside the actual chamber as your fist turns
it into shattered rock and dust.

LAURA: Can Pike see undead in there?

MATT: Make a perception check.

TRAVIS: I'll make a perception check too. I'm at
the doorway.

LAURA: Plus 11? 20.

MATT: Okay.

TALIESIN: Natural 20.

MATT: Okay, as you guys glance inside briefly this
ten-foot wide-- well, it's actually more like a

six-foot wide door side on this point, glancing
inside it's another circular chamber that's like

an outer hallway maybe five feet wide, six feet
wide, and an interior chamber. It looks like a

smaller cylinder on the inside that is currently
locked. You don't see anything within there. You

see to the right immediately the rockslide has
filled most of the chamber and comes to rest just

about the corner of a single large antique bronze
door that's pushed into this central chamber about

15 feet wide.

LIAM: Vax catches Pike's shoulder. Hold on, let me
look.

MATT: You glance off to your left and you can see
along the other side, there are five pedestals

that curve around this side, each containing a
stone box about that big, on each pedestal.

TALIESIN: What?!

MATT: Otherwise, all around the ground here are
broken rocks and shattered statue bits from the

rockslide. They pushed it inside. It's a mess
across the ground from the impact of the

rockslide. So, what are you guys doing?

LIAM: I'm checking the boxes for traps. And the
door.

LAURA: Can we see anything that points to what
deity it is from inside the chamber? Can we see

anything?

MATT: Glancing around? You can't make another
religion check on one you've already failed.

LAURA: Oh, yeah, no.

MATT: So you don't see anything that comes across
as religious iconography.

LAURA: What about Pike though, because she's
looking in.

MATT: Sure, make a religion check for Pike.

TALIESIN: Feel you. I feel you.

LIAM: Plus seven.

LAURA: 13.

MATT: 13? No religious iconography seems to catch
your attention. What did you roll for the--?

LIAM: 19 for the investigation.

MATT: 19 for the investigation.

LIAM: The door and boxes.

MATT: Okay. Glancing at the first box, it does not
appear to be locked. It does

appear to be trapped.

LIAM: Okay. Here we go.

LAURA: You're going to try to undo the trap?

MATT: Yep, so go ahead and make a roll, your
dexterity and your proficiency modifier.

LIAM: Thieves' tool, yeah. That's fine.

TRAVIS: Should we clear out of here while you work
on this bomb?

LIAM: Yeah!

TRAVIS: We're all going to get out of the
chamber.

MATT: Okay, so you all clear out of the chamber.

LIAM: 30.

MATT: 30, okay. You find there's actually a pressure
cartridge at the very top of the box, so you slip

your dagger in, so it remains depressed. As you
lift the lid, you put your thumb over it and hold

it, trap never triggers. Looking inside, it's
empty.

LIAM: (shutting noise)

MATT: (shutting noise) No problem.

LIAM: Just go down the line.

MATT: All right. Investigation check on the next
one.

TRAVIS: Five of them, on pedestals.

LAURA: (groans) Luck?

LIAM: Yeah.

LAURA: Okay, good.

TALIESIN: Oh, yeah.

LIAM: (laughs) That's a 29.

MATT: You rolled a 29?

LIAM: With Luck.

MATT: Okay, this one is not locked, is trapped.

LIAM: Okay, here we go. That's fine. That's a 27.

MATT: 27, okay. Similar depression plate, so the
dagger opens it up. It's empty.

LIAM: I did one, two, let's jump to five.

MATT: Okay, go for it.

LAURA: Are you making sure nothing's invisible in
there?

LIAM: No. Are you here?

LAURA: I'm peeking in the door.

LIAM: Did you whisper it to me?

LAURA: Yeah.

LIAM: They don't relock when I go?

LAURA: They're not locking.

LIAM: My sister's hounding me at the door, so I'm
going to go back and twiddle my finger inside the

empty boxes.

LAURA: You were shutting them as you went.

LIAM: Yeah, but I can reopen them. They don't
relock, do they?

LAURA: It's not that they were locked. They were
trapped.

LIAM: But retrap, I mean?

MATT: They are re-trapped but you've already known
the traps--

LIAM: So I'll go do this inside.

MATT: Nothing.

LAURA: Just wanted to double check!

LIAM: I go to box five.

MATT: Okay.

LIAM: Oh, that's great. Yeah, that works. That was
investigation and it's 26?

MATT: 26? It's not locked. It is trapped.

LIAM: That is a 33? Yeah.

MATT: 33. Similar trap setup, different placement
of the depression plate on the inside of the box

lid. You find it, hold it, open it up. Empty.

LAURA: Ah, it's all empty?

TALIESIN: Two more.

LIAM: Two more.

LIAM: Let's go to box number three. There's three
and four left.

MATT: Okay.

LAURA: I look over at Percy. It makes me far too
uncomfortable how excited you are about this.

TALIESIN: This could be very good.

LIAM: 18.

MATT: 18. All right, you check. It is not locked.
It is not trapped.

(groaning)

LAURA: Oh no, oh no, you rolled too low!

MATT: Okay, you lift the lid, putting the
dagger where the other depressions were.

LIAM: I'm leaning back.

MATT: As you pull it back, there's a (cloud
explosion) of a purplish-black cloud of some sort

of vapor that immediately bursts into your face.
Make a constitution saving throw.

LAURA: It's okay. Well, it's not okay. He's got
better constitution.

LIAM: Good. 20.

MATT: 20. You manage to just in time hold your
breath and what bit gets into your lungs your body

instinctually pushes against. Your semi-living
form pushes the toxins from your system.

You only suffer--

LAURA: 75 points of poison damage.

MATT: No, you only suffer eight points of poison
damage.

TALIESIN: Ah, there you go.

LIAM: Let's do one more.

TALIESIN: Anything in the box?

MATT: Box is empty.

TALIESIN: Last box!

TRAVIS: You are not doing this to us!

LIAM: 19.

MATT: 19. Not locked, not trapped.

TALIESIN: Hold your breath.

TRAVIS: Look at his eyes! Look at his eyes!

LIAM: Yeah, I'm going to hold my breath and--
wait, wait, wait.

SAM: Need some help in there?

LIAM: Okay, here's what I'm going to do. I 
take up Whisper and I go (unlocking)

(wind blowing) and throw it at the wall.

MATT: Okay. So you throw Whisper and pull the lid
up?

LIAM: Yep.

MATT: As you pull the lid up, (trap triggers) the
same toxic fume emanates from it but you are not

there in the space, instead appearing right next to the
central cylindrical platform in the center of the

chamber and look back and the cloud slowly
dissipates around. The lid has now fallen back

into place.

TRAVIS: Aw, shit!

MARISHA: That was hot.

LIAM: I walk over to it (finger swirling sound).

MATT: Well, the lid fell back in place.

LIAM: Oh, I did that to the top! I open it up
(finger swirling sound).

MATT: Okay, you open it up. Make a constitution
saving throw.

LIAM: Yes!

MATT: As it (cloud explosion) sprays in the air--

LIAM: It does it again?! It didn't expend?!

MATT: These don't!

LIAM: I would've thought there'd be a little
container--

MATT: They reset when they close!

LIAM: With what?! Are there a bunch of gnomes down
there?!

TALIESIN: It's like a paintball gun.

MATT: It's like there's magic in the world,
Liam, that allows you to fly 400 feet a round!

LIAM: I'm just going to take it, a 14, that's not
good enough.

MATT: No, it's not good enough-- Oh! No, actually
14 is just what you needed.

LAURA: Oh!

MATT: So, you resist it again (pained noise), you
still-- That is only six points of poison damage.

LIAM: I'm fine, I'm fine, I cough.

MATT: But you resist the poison from locking into
your system.

LAURA: That's good.

MATT: The box is empty.

LAURA: The box is empty! Was it worth it?

TALIESIN: What's in the center?

LIAM: I feel alive-- of what? Of the room?

MATT: The bronze door.

SAM: The gift was the adventure.

TALIESIN: I think that's where the good shit was.
I think this was just to take people out.

MATT: You get the sense looking around here, based
on the forced entry, that there's probably a good

chance this place had already been pilfered of
whatever those boxes contained.

LIAM: You never know. They could've died trying.
And then walked away undead.

SAM: So, there's literally nothing in here? Or
there's still a sarcophagus?

LAURA: There's a center cylinder.

MATT: There's the rockslide, shattered statues
across the ground. There's the empty boxes on the

pillars, and there's the bronze doorway.

LAURA: There is an undead thing, maybe one undead
guy got stuck in the middle.

SAM: So, we should open the bronze door? Right?

TRAVIS: Yeah.

LAURA: You know what, Scanlan, you should probably
bamf inside and see.

SAM: I could.

TRAVIS: Do it.

SAM: Okay.

LAURA: No, no, I'm joking!

TRAVIS: No, no, no, do it!

SAM: I'll go inside and I'll open the door!

TRAVIS: Yeah!

TALIESIN: The door just opens on it--

SAM: Is it locked?

MATT: You go ahead and inspect the door?

LIAM: Ask your rogue, dude.

MATT: So, as you go and take a moment and check
the door, there is a bronze image faintly carved

into it of a stocky dwarven man with a thick beard
that touches his toes. It completely covers the

front of his body. He wears plated armor that
comes to dangerous, jagged, curved-up points. As

far as dwarves go, this one looks about as unhappy
and unapproachable as any dwarf, and you've

encountered some pretty gnarly dwarves in your
time. As you glance down, there does appear to be

an opening for a key and there is an oval turning
mechanism, like a vault door,

like a smaller vault.

SAM: I'm going to check for traps.

MATT: Make an investigation check.

SAM: I think it's 20.

MATT: 20? It does not appear to be trapped.

TRAVIS: Look at that face.

LIAM: Do you mind if I give a second opinion?

SAM: Sure.

LIAM: You know, what could it hurt? Oh, not that good
though. No, lower than what you rolled.

LAURA: Oh shit. There's no traps.

LIAM: It's okay, you're good now.

TRAVIS: We need a key though.

MATT: Does appear to be locked, though.

SAM: Oh yeah, maybe you should pick the lock.

TRAVIS: We need a key. Let me try my--

LAURA: No, let's just pick his for this.

LIAM: Natural 20.

MATT: To?

LIAM: Pick it.

MATT: Pick the lock? Okay.

LAURA: I'm not in this room.

TALIESIN: I'm in the back, ready.

LIAM: Pike is, though. She's been doing this for
five minutes.

MATT: Okay, so you and Pike, you're in the back of
the room.

TALIESIN: I'm right by the door.

MATT: What's everyone doing?

TRAVIS and LAURA: Outside the door.

MARISHA: Yeah, I'm outside, waiting for a call.

SAM: I'm right next to him.

MATT: All right. So it's a total of what?

LIAM: Total of 37. I'm a level 18 rogue!

MATT: I know!

TALIESIN: Who just rolled a natural 20!

MATT: On a lockpick DC of 30, you manage to
somehow find the intricacy of a king dwarf

sarcophagus sealed door. It takes you a good two
to three minutes to carefully find the proper

tumblers and hold them without it breaking or
ruining the lock, but you manage to feel something

shift, and a slight latch mechanism on the other
side go (creaking). At which point, the brass door

from the front door's jaw goes (door opening) and
pours forth this green fume that fills the entirety of

the chamber. Scanlan, Pike, and Vax, I need you
and you because you're still in

the back of the chamber--

TALIESIN: I'm by the door though.

LIAM: But you're inside.

MATT: You said you were back in the chamber by the
door, it's on the outskirt. I need you all to make

a constitution saving throw, please.

TRAVIS: It's like we kept asking for it.

MARISHA: I know.

SAM: 18, for me.

MARISHA: Keyleth is in the back facepalming right
about now.

TALIESIN: 19.

LIAM: 25.

MATT: Okay.

LAURA: Seven.

MATT: Seven. Okay. You manage to shrug off
whatever this effect the fume is and you all cough

for a second as it dissipates. Scanlan, Percival,
and Pike, you feel your joints begin to stiffen,

you feel your skin begin to tighten, and as you
guys try and shift and look around, your whole

body moves sluggishly. The outside of your body
seems to harden and begin to shift in place. You

suddenly begin to wonder, those shattered statue
pieces in the ground may have been the last tomb

robbers who came through here. As you all begin to
realize this and the fume begins to slowly fade

from the chamber, the rest of you, scared to
enter, I need you to make another constitution

saving throw.

TRAVIS: Whoa.

LAURA: Oh my god.

MATT: Not you, Vax, you've already made it, but I
need Pike, Percy, and Scanlan to make another.

MARISHA: Can Keyleth do any type of wind gust to
try and push this away to help?

MATT: If you'd like to.

MARISHA: But ahead of time?

MATT: The effect has already taken place on them,
it's not going to stop it unless they save, but

you can try and clear the chamber of the fume.

MARISHA: I'll go ahead and clear the chamber so
they don't have to do this again.

MATT: All right, so what are you using to do
that?

MARISHA: Wind gust.

MATT: It's a 1st-level, correct?

MATT: So you clear, the fume dissipates out and up
into the chamber, and you diffuse it enough where

it doesn't seem to have as concentrated an
effect.

LIAM: Could you say that Vax saw the look of panic
in Pike's eyes and Blessed her in a split second?

MARISHA: Gust of Wind, 2nd-level spell, sorry.

MATT: I will say, sure, I'll let that happen.

SAM: But you won't let me cast Greater
Restoration?

MATT: You can if you want to.

SAM: I will cast Greater Restoration.

MATT: On yourself?

SAM: On Pike.

MATT: On Pike, okay. As you reach out and cast
Greater Restoration, it infuses Pike's body and

the hardening effect fades.

SAM: But I have to roll another constitution?

MATT: You and Percival both.

LAURA: So Pike is--?

SAM: 13.

MARISHA: 13 is not good. Oh, fucking hell.

TALIESIN: I'm going to blow a Resolve. That'll be
fun, because that was bullshit. 18?

MATT: As Pike shrugs off the effect and the Gust
of Wind clears the rest of the green fume from the

chamber, you all look back and watch as, locked in
place, frozen stone Percival and Scanlan now adorn

the chamber like decorative statues, locked in an
expression of--

LAURA: Pike runs over and casts Greater
Restoration on Scanlan.

MARISHA: And I cast Greater Restoration on Percy.

MATT: Okay, so mark off those spells cast for both
of you. And upon touch, each of you, your form

reverts back and the flesh and color returns 
to your body.

MARISHA: Can we please stop robbing tombs and get
back to our actual mission?

SAM: I'm stuck like this!

LAURA: No, you're not.

SAM: It didn't work! Oh god!

LAURA: Scanlan, no you're not.

TALIESIN: I put my finger in his ear.

TRAVIS: Shit, we just blew those.

MARISHA: Can we go?

MATT: The door's open. And the jaw is not
resetting. It's expended at the time, you don't

know how long it will take for it to reset. And
you do recognize this is one of those type of

traps that does reset over time, you just don't know
how much time you have.

LIAM: Too bad I didn't recognize the last one.

MATT: Nope.

TALIESIN: Do we want to open it? We paid for it.

LIAM: It's open.

TALIESIN: It's open, what's inside?

LIAM: Pickle, come on.

LAURA: She gets ready.

MATT: Beyond the door, indeed you find the tomb of
the last king. In this cylindrical chamber with

plain stone walls in the center, you see a single
solid marble rectangular sarcophagus with no lid.

It is open before you. Within, you see the
mummified skeleton of a dwarf adorned in golden

decorative armor, the same shape and design that
you saw on the bronze doorway before you entered.

An intricate hammer made of jet black metal rests
to one side outside of its grasp, and a beautiful

gray leather belt of square opals wraps around the
center of its body. At which point, the skull goes

(crackling).

LAURA: She casts Turn Undead.

LIAM: She grabs her holy symbol and flips it the
bird and Turns Undead.

MATT: Okay. As she holds up the holy symbol, the
might of Sarenrae swells within her and blasts

forth in a shockwave of divine energy and will.
What's her DC?

LIAM: Wisdom saving throw DC, oh shit, so many
pieces of paper. 18.

MATT: 18? As the wave blasts past, it sits up,
seemingly unaffected by the effect. (growls) It

looks like it's coming to. You have one round.
What are you guys doing?

LIAM: One round?

TRAVIS: We're not in there.

MATT: Nope, the rest of you are out. It's one
round before it seems to be-- it's currently

sitting up in the sarcophagus, its arms reaching
out for the hammer at its side.

LIAM: I'm going to fill up with three daggers and
dump Divine Smite into the first.

SAM: Take its weapons.

MATT: All right. Pike also still has her mace.

LAURA: Yeah, so she should do that.

MARISHA: Am I in there from the gust?

MATT: No, you guys are still outside of the
chamber. They rushed in after healing each other

and besides, it's a small room, there's only room
for three people to get in there.

What are you doing?

LAURA: Pike's going to rush in as he's doing that
and try to rip the hammer away from the body and

run out of the room.

MATT: Interesting. Okay. So first, you do your
attack.

LIAM: 32, 19, 32.

MATT: The first and the third hit.

LIAM: Okay, first and third hit. Sneak attack on
the first because assassin, and I'm going to dump

Smite into it. Three plus eight. Let me get the
dice first. (counting) 41. And the Smite is 3d8

because it's undead. I said 41, right? 41, 45, 46,
52, doubled is 104. Plus the psychic damage. 109.

For the first attack.

MATT: So. Pike doesn't have much of a fight for
the hammer because you watch as daggers jam into

the ornamental armor, causing it to bend and twist
inward, ruining the breastplate, and the undead

king falls apart, and before it can sit up, is now
sitting right back down in the sarcophagus.

LAURA: She's like, "Well!"

TALIESIN: Take everything.

LAURA: Check for traps, because we've been there,
darling. We've been there.

MARISHA: Take his belt.

LAURA: Check for fucking traps. How about nobody
dies.

LIAM: Bad experience with coffins.

TRAVIS: It really didn't go that poorly last
time.

SAM: I'm going to check the floor for any pressure
plates or anything. Okay. That's a lot. 30.

MATT: 30.

LIAM: 22 for my investigation.

MATT: Okay. The sarcophagus itself is not trapped.
Nothing of the accoutrements appear to be trapped.

As you're investigating, the floor plates to the
immediate right and left of the sarcophagus to

where someone would easily wish to reach in, there
are two plates that are trapped.

SAM: Just work from the floor or from the--

MATT: From the front, yeah. It's a very small
space, it's meant that if more than one person

were to-- or if you were to fill the chamber, the
two sides would trigger.

TALIESIN: Let's get what we need and get out.

LIAM: Oh no, you can fly over.

TALIESIN: Before it resets.

MATT: The bronze plate armor is ruined. It's
decorative, it appears to be more for visual and

presentation than actual function. So you grab the
dark hammer and the belt. Then you pull out of the

chamber. The jaw of the open bronze is slowly
(creaking sound).

LAURA: Get out.

MATT: You guys exit the chamber, you're now
outside of the cylindrical tomb of the Last King.

TRAVIS: That was a lot of action. What did you
get?

LAURA: I found a hammer, Grog. Is it cursed? Can
we tell? If it's cursed? Can we tell if it's bad?

LIAM: You might be feeling some issues right
now if it were cursed.

MATT: Anyone have an Identify spell?

SAM: She might be able to sense good and
evil, no?

LAURA: I don't know.

SAM: Or is that for creatures, not for-- That's
for creatures.

LIAM: I could Detect Good and Evil.

LAURA: Yeah. Here.

MATT: It's creatures.

TRAVIS: Gimme.

SAM: I can look at it and just look at it. I'll
look at it.

LAURA: Does it feel magic?

MATT: Make an arcana check, if you're looking at
it. Sorry.

SAM: Just looking. 12.

LAURA: We suck.

MATT: It's interesting. It's not so much that you
can see any sort of-- there's no runic

ornamentation it seems on it, but it's like a deep
jet black metal. Make a history check.

MARISHA: Does it look like the same black metal as
in the tomb?

SAM: 22.

MATT: 22. This is adamantine, which is an
extremely rare and hard metal.

SAM: Wolverine?

MATT: It's the fantasy equivalent. It's not
technically magically enchanted, but its nature

makes it a very powerful weapon by the metal that
it's crafted from.

MARISHA: The hammer?

MATT: The hammer.

TRAVIS: Is it a two-handed weapon? Single-handed?

MATT: It's a warhammer, so it's one-handed.

TRAVIS: I'm just saying.

SAM: What's your hammer like?

TRAVIS: My Dwarven Thrower? It can be single or
double-handed. It's not a warhammer. It flies back

to my hand, though.

SAM: Oh, that's pretty cool.

TRAVIS: It is. But you can never have enough
hammers. Do you mind if I--?

SAM: No, but I mean, how are you going to wield
this? You have two other weapons, don't you?

TRAVIS: Are you kidding me? I'm like a fucking
Home Depot of weapons. I got what you need.

SAM: Sure, go for it.

LAURA: What about the belt?

MATT: The belt? Make an arcana check.

SAM: Let me look at that. I have no idea what that
is.

TRAVIS: Just because I want to know, can I go up
to the doorway and hit the side of the doorway

with the adamantine black hammer?

MATT: It does require attunement to use its effect
or power.

LAURA: Oh! It needs attunement.

TRAVIS: Yeah, without attuning. I just hit the
doorway.

MATT: Okay. It's solid, it's hefty, it's nice. One
of the better hammers you've ever wielded.

TRAVIS: It's solid. It's hefty. It's one of the
better hammers I've ever wielded.

SAM: Are you going to unattune from something to
attune to this?

TRAVIS: No.

LAURA: Just to have it.

SAM: Then what is it?

TRAVIS: Bag of Holding.

LAURA: This is totally worth it. We don't know
what any of this shit is.

TALIESIN: We don't know. Let me take a look at
that belt, maybe. Wait, you have to be trained in

arcana to identify something, don't you?

MATT: I would say for the most part, yeah.

TALIESIN: Is there anybody else trained in
arcana?

MATT: I mean, you can make a base check to give a
glance, but you're not going to be able to learn

much about the nature of any enchantment if you
find one.

TALIESIN: Does 23 do anything?

MATT: I will say looking at it, there does appear to be
runes inscribed very faintly in parts of the

leather around it and the way the rectangular
opals are set into it, there is a glimmer of some

sort of enchantment based into it.

TALIESIN: I want to attune to it and see what
happens.

MARISHA: We have to take another short rest.

TALIESIN: Next time, yeah. Let's get a little
further.

SAM: Next time? We're about to go fight fucking
Vecna.

TALIESIN: I mean, we're on our way, but we've got
a lot further to go.

SAM: Well, that was fruitful. Let's keep going.

TRAVIS: All right. Let's go back to the other
way.

TALIESIN: I think I'm going to try the belt on and
see what happens.

TRAVIS: Yeah, do it.

LIAM: Fred.

MARISHA: While we're walking?

LIAM: Freddie.

TALIESIN: It's obviously enchanted, it doesn't--

SAM: Who would be buried with a cursed belt?

TRAVIS: Absolutely you would. Yep. That's exactly
what you would do with it.

SAM: I think it's a great idea. We're gods now, we
can do anything we want.

MARISHA: I mean, we have pulled cursed items out
of tombs before.

SAM: They haven't permanently killed any of us.

MARISHA: Sure.

LAURA: You can do what?

LIAM: I wasn't going to say I could do anything. I
think that's a shitty idea right now.

MARISHA: We really need to keep moving.

TRAVIS: We travel back down the---

LAURA: Yeah, the other fucking direction.

MATT: All right. So, you head the other way. So,
you're holding off?

TALIESIN: No, I want to find out, so I'm going to
pull the gloves off and I'm going to put the belt on.

MATT: Okay, so you begin to attune to it as you
guys are walking, take some time with it.

TALIESIN and MARISHA: I hope it's great.

MATT: Following the right path, you continue for
roughly 100 or so feet in a switchback motion.

Once you're past that portion of the tunnel, it
seems to curve back and it ascends in like a

switchback path a bit. You can see at this point
more stairs, more carved stone steps are beginning

to emerge; some of the rough earth that you had
encountered in previous T-intersections seems to

be falling away to some semblance of actual
holding architecture. And eventually it reveals a

much larger hall of very apparent dwarven
architecture. The ceiling now pulls up to about 60

feet above you, stalagmites dripping condensation
from the shadow above, you can hear the distant

drops in the distance of the cavern before you.
You can make out broken ruins built into the walls

of each side. Ancient stone homes and structures
that now crack and crumble with each footfall of

the titan. As you hear the (impact) of the next
heavy footfall, you see as a couple of stones

tumble from some of these structures, clattering
across the cavern floor.

LIAM and MATT: Perception check.

LIAM: Natural 20.

MATT: Vax. You hear a faint, distant, echoing,
alien sound in the darkness ahead of you.

LIAM: Far-ish?

MATT: Further than your visual range.

LIAM: Further than my visual range. Okay, we've
got company up ahead. So, yeah.

MARISHA: What kind of an alien language? Any that
we recognize?

MATT: You hear this faint-- sounds like a voice,
droning, slightly changing pitch, but it's so

disparate and so distant that you can't make up
anything other than noticing that it exists

amongst the steady, low, rhythmic rumbles of each
separate footfall of the beast you now currently

are within.

TRAVIS: Vax. Go fetch.

LIAM: Stealth.

MATT: All right. Make a stealth check.

LIAM: 30.

MATT: Okay. As you dart ahead, you come up a few
steps onto a raised thoroughfare amongst the

various dwarven buildings here. It looks like
there is a crevasse or chasm that this portion of

the city was built along, and you can see up above
there were platforms where staircases would rise up and there

were raised buildings built into these chambers
that have since fallen and crumbled down with the

movement of the titan, leaving these ruined piles of
broken walls, floors, and decorative materials.

You can see broken and bent dinnerware and
metallic decorative plates or vases that have

since fallen and crumbled beneath the collapsing
structures. There was once a thriving city that

you're now getting more glimpses of the further
into this beast you go that has been long deserted

and now, the longer it travels, it begins to be
erased by the vibrations of the creature's

movement. As you continue forward, you can see
there's a portion where the-- Couldn't wait, could you?

TRAVIS: The damn growl. I thought it was a growl.

LAURA and MATT: It sounded like a growl.

LIAM: Man, I had to pee so bad, I ran out of the
room.

MATT: I know. As you crest the top of this upper
area of the road, you glance down and can see a

portion of it is underwater, there's a small pool
where droplets drop and at the edge of it you can

barely see the shape of a creature, hunched at the
edge of the waterside.

LIAM: How close am I to that?

MATT: It's about 50 to 55 feet from you.

LIAM: Divine Sense.

MATT: Okay. Divine Sense to see if--

LIAM: It's undead.

MATT: It is not undead; you do not get an undead
sense.

LIAM: Okay. Or a fiend or a celestial?

MATT: It's too far away to get a close view at
this point because it's at the edge of your

darkvision. You can just make out its shape; it's
humanoid, it has two arms, two legs, and it looks

roughly the size of you or Vex. But you now see
it's sitting at a fallen and partially ruined

dwarven statue, some sort of structure that was on
a pedestal that had fallen at the edge-- and it's

sitting over top of it. It's got gray, splotchy
skin, tough exterior, armored spines or plates

along its back that stick up as it hunches forward
like some sort of porcupine.

LAURA: Does it look like that thing in the Nine Hells
that we saw? Or in the City of Brass?

MATT: Not quite, it's smaller than that. You see a
collection of odd trinkets and objects that dangle

around its waist that clink as it shifts and moves, like a
belt of scavenged trophies. Its claws currently

tear into some sort of unidentified fleshy limb;
it has clawed fingers. It's digging into it, tears

a piece of flesh off of it and chews and slurps it
back. It suddenly freezes up--

LIAM: (daggers whooshing) One two three.

ALL: Oh.

MATT: Roll for an attack.

MARISHA: What if he's nice? What if he's that
random creepy merchant you find in the

middle of nowhere?

TRAVIS: Nobody that eats with their hands in the
inside of a titan is nice.

LIAM: Advantage on all three attacks. First attack
is 29.

MATT: Okay, that hits.

LIAM: Second attack.

SAM: He's just a nice old man.

LIAM: Second attack is 32. Third attack is 27.

MATT: That hits.

LAURA: (gentle old man impression) Thank god
you're here! I've been--

TALIESIN: There's no throat left.

MARISHA: (rugged voice) Would you like to see my
wares--

TRAVIS: I've been freed from my--

SAM: (gravelly voice) Don't go in the crypt of--

(laughter)

MATT: So the first dagger does--

LIAM: Ten, 14, 17, 23, 24, 48 plus psychic damage.
54 for the first attack.

MATT: The two daggers hit nothing as the first
dagger strikes and slaughters the creature. And

hits the water and now floats up, unmoving in the
pond there. You can see the liquid around it

darkening.

TALIESIN: You just killed an NPC!

LIAM: We're not in Emon in the market square!

MATT: No one knows about this. The sheer force of
the first dagger sends it off the broken statue

and it falls into the water and it is now
unmoving.

LIAM: We are in hell. Perception check.

TRAVIS: All we know is you're just out there.

MATT: You guys do hear this distant echoing
(creature dying) that echoes throughout the

chamber.

LIAM: 31.

MATT: Okay, you glance around. Nothing else seems
to be moving in the chamber.

LIAM: All right, I'm going to sneak up to it.

MATT: Okay. You move up to it, you can see now
it's hunched in the water, its face is under the

ground. The water itself is maybe waist deep at
most, and it's there floating in the liquid.

SAM: It was holding a baby.

LIAM: Flame Tongue is out, what am I looking at?

MATT: Do you want to look at its face?

LIAM: Yeah.

MATT: Okay, as you pull one of the spines and pull
it back, you can see toothy jaws, humanoid-like,

but grey and coming to a point where you can see
jagged teeth in the top and bottom row, and one

singular large yellowish eye in the center of its
face, no nose, and the eye is

slightly rolled back.

LIAM: Liam knows what this thing is, but Vax does
not. Fuck this thing! I'm going to start looking--

what are the trinkets on it?

MATT: Make an investigation check.

LAURA: You don't know what Matt would've done with
whatever you think!

LIAM: Oh, he could do anything!

MARISHA: Yeah, Clarota was nice!

LIAM: Was he? Did you say investigation or
perception?

MATT: Investigation.

LIAM: Investigation, all right, thank you. Some
weird energy tonight, guys. 19.

MATT: 19. Okay. A lot of them appear to be bones,
many of them ancient, and a couple of them look to

be more fresh. There's a filth-encrusted dagger
that's hanging from the side, an empty scroll

case, a spyglass, half of a book that looks like
it's old and rotten and falling apart, and a

singular bronze key.

LIAM: I rip off the spyglass and go, oh, that looks
nerdy, Percy will like that, and then I yank off

the dagger and go, that looks all right, and I
stick it in the Blinkback Belt and then-- what was

the last thing? It was a key. To the bronze door
right, yeah.

MATT: Looking at the shape and size of it, it
probably would have fit pretty

snugly into that door.

LIAM: In the dark by myself. Oh, that is fucking
hilarious.

TRAVIS: No book?

LIAM: The tattered remains of the book? Eh.

MATT: You don't recognize the language.

LIAM: Eh. I don't. I let it sink back into the
water.

MATT: Okay. Well, it's still floating.

TRAVIS: Vax. What did you find up ahead?

LIAM: A one eyed, one horned, swimming, purple,
people-- Come on up, please,

we should keep moving.

TRAVIS: All right. We join him.

MATT: All right. You guys approach carefully,
walking through the center of this twisting chasm.

You come over the rise of the central road and
descend to meet up with Vax where you see there

was the pool and the floating creature.

LAURA: Eww. What is that? Do any of us know what
it was?

TALIESIN: Am I starting to get a vibe or am I not
starting to get a vibe?

MATT: Of?

TALIESIN: The belt.

MATT: Oh, the belt? Okay, I'd say at this point.
Sure.

TALIESIN: Starting to get a vibe?

MATT: Sure.

SAM: Ooh.

MARISHA: Is it vibey?

TALIESIN: It says. Okay.

LAURA: Read it out loud.

SAM: I don't even know how to pronounce that first
word.

TALIESIN: The attuned gains resistance to psychic
damage, in addition they are immune to being

paralyzed or petrified and cannot be knocked
prone.

TRAVIS: Okay, that's fucking clutch.

LAURA: Okay, that's really big.

TALIESIN: As an action you can channel your anger
to produce a shockwave of thunderous energy, as

with the Thunderwave spell. DC 16, cast at fifth
level. You cannot use this feature until you

finish a short rest.

SAM: How do you pronounce that first name?

MARISHA: Cincture. Cincture of the Stone King.

SAM: Cinc-ture?

MARISHA: Cincture. It's like Spanx. We should call
it Spanx of the Stone King.

SAM: How do you know that?

TALIESIN: How do you not?

SAM: Oh, it's like, people still make these
things?

MARISHA: It's like a cincture. Like Spanx.

SAM: Oh, I've never seen that word before.

LIAM: Oh, Freddie. Get excited. I found a spyglass
covered in diarrhea. Would you like it?

TALIESIN: Yes. Clean it, please.

LAURA: What is this creature? Do we know what
this creature is?

MATT: This would be an arcana check on this one,
actually.

TRAVIS: Because he's enjoying his belt, can I take
out--

MATT: Is anyone here trained in arcana?

LAURA: Scanlan.

SAM: Well, I'm not proficient in it, weirdly, but
I am an arcanist.

MATT: Yeah, make a check with disadvantage.

SAM: Seven.

LAURA: With disadvantage.

SAM: Four.

MATT: You're not entirely certain what this is.

TALIESIN: Is that with your arcana?

SAM: I mean, it's ten.

LAURA: Oh, well that's better than four.

SAM: Yeah, but it's still sucky.

TRAVIS: Could I take out the black metallic hammer
now that he's all excited about his belt and begin

my attuning period?

MATT: Okay. So you're going to attune. Are you
guys going to wait for him or are you going to

walk with him as--

SAM: No we're not fucking waiting for--

MATT: Okay, you look at the creature and leave it
there in the water. You begin concentrating on the

hammer. What are you unattuning from to take its
place?

TRAVIS: Instead of the Bloodaxe.

MATT: Okay. So you set the Bloodaxe away and
attune to the adamantine hammer as you begin to trek

further into--

LAURA: Is there anything else interesting in this
cavern? That we can see?

MATT: We'll get to that in a minute. As you begin
to leave the watered pool to head further into

this chasm, we're going to take a break. Because
it's been a while. We'll be back here in a little

bit, guys. We do have this Wenge Dice Vault for
one of you guys to win from our friends over at

Wyrmwood. This is the same wood that I use for my
dice box over here.

SAM: You will win Matthew Mercer's wood tonight.
No?

MATT: That works. So yeah. Head over to the twitch
chat if you want to be entered in this when called

for in the the twitch chat. Tonight's code word is
titan. T-I-T-A-N. Enter that to be put into the

drawing and one of you lucky winners will have
this. We'll announce you when we come back from

the break. See you guys here in a few.

MATT: And welcome back to Critical Role.

(laughter)

MATT: First off, we have a winner. The winner of
the (laughs) of the giveaway tonight is

Dalen365. D-A-L-E-N. Dalen365, congratulations.
Danoba will contact you for your information and

we'll get that sent out to you, so well done.

LIAM: You know what? 82 people tweeted me that
Pike speaks Dwarvish. So thanks guys, thanks.

LAURA: Yes, thank you for informing us.

TRAVIS: (garbled) Who cares? I speak Dwarvish.

MATT: I like to think that Pike could, but wanted
to let him do it. "You can do it." She taught him

to write, taught him to read. She's like, "Good
job."

TRAVIS: Thank you. I'm a scholar.

MATT: Also, before we get started, Laura,
something you wanted to mention at the beginning,

but you weren't here for the announcements.

LAURA: Oh man, yeah. Uncharted: The Lost Legacy
came out this week.

TRAVIS: It's so good!

LAURA: You should check it out!

TRAVIS: You play Nadine.

LAURA: I play Nadine. You should go see it.

SAM: You should go see it?

MATT: At a theater near you.

TALIESIN: At a drive-in near you.

LAURA: Go see it, and then play it.

LIAM: It's a match-three game, right?

LAURA: Yeah, and also Marvel's Spider-Man show
premiered on the 19th. I'm Gwen Stacy on that.

MATT: I'm the Rhino on that.

MARISHA: Your shirt's so dope, too.

LAURA: I saw the episode, too, and it was really
good.

MATT: He's coming up throughout the series, and
he's a ridiculous character. He's fun. Fantastic.

I forgot about that; thank you for the reminder.
All right, so bringing it back in. As you've left

the pool and the body behind, you continue further
into this chasm.

TRAVIS: Oh man, that's going to be a good Talks
later.

(laughter)

TRAVIS: Not that we heard anything about what you
just did.

LIAM: You might have seen a corpse in the water,
floating.

TRAVIS: I don't pay attention to that shit.

MATT: All right.

LAURA: I wanted to look in the chamber and see if
there was anything else interesting before we

walked out.

MATT: There are a number of dwarven buildings in
the vicinity. Some are partially or completely

collapsed. Some had fallen from outcroppings and
platforms that have since fallen into the center

of the chamber.

TRAVIS: It's almost as if this room is meant to
introduce something.

TALIESIN: Stop it!

MATT: You rolled a perception. It was?

LAURA: I didn't roll it.

MATT: You didn't roll yet? That's right; you did.

LIAM: To perceive a dead body in the water.

LAURA: 29.

MATT: 29. Glancing about, there's the continuation
of the path. The chasm seems to be pinching a bit

the further forward you go; it's closing in. You
see six dwarven households or structures that

could be entered, that look structurally enough
sound that they're standing.

LAURA: Do they look rich?

MATT: From this perspective? Everything looks
pretty wrecked.

LAURA: Okay. We're in a hurry, right? I'm not
going to go search for stuff.

MATT: All right. Continuing forward, the floor
continues to ascend upward as you reach the edge

of where the earth begins to meet to that pinch at
the edge of the chasm, and there, the tunnel

continues anew. There are stairs that continue for
about 25 or 30 feet beyond, as you ascend to those

steps. They begin to vanish beneath more loose
earth and stone for another 20 or so feet before

reemerging again in places. About 40 feet past
that, the tunnel ends at a set of heavy stone

eight-foot doors. The surrounding cavern has slid
in places, but it doesn't appear to be burying the

door, to a certain extent. They're just closed.
You don't see any handles; you don't see any

keyhole entry point. They're just two stone slabs.
They're simple. They're smooth. There's no

intricate scrolling. There's no Dwarven text.
They're just impeding your progress.

LIAM: Let's have a look.

LAURA: Yeah, I'll look around.

MATT: Investigation check.

LIAM: Oh, terrible.

LAURA: 21.

LIAM: 18.

MATT: Okay. There does not appear to be any
locking mechanism. There doesn't appear to be any

traps around it. They're just two stone slabs that
are jammed together.

LAURA: No hinges, no nothing.

MATT: No.

TRAVIS: (clears throat)

LIAM: Yes, Greg?

TRAVIS: No, I just had a tickle in my throat.

LAURA: Did you want to smash your way through this
very loudly?

TRAVIS: Oh, did you want me to smash through this
very loudly?

LAURA: No.

TRAVIS: Gently, with a push, maybe?

LAURA: Yeah, maybe try to push it first.

TRAVIS: Fine. Can I push? Wait. Can I try pushing
on one of the slabs? The right slab.

MATT: Sure. Make a strength check.

LIAM: Vax is backing the fuck up.

TALIESIN: Yeah, I'm backing up.

TRAVIS: 24.

MATT: 24. You put both hands and push and push.
Your fingers (cracking) dig into the stone, and it

cracks around the exterior where you push about an
inch into the stonework with your Gauntlets. As

you push, you watch as the surrounding edges of
the stone door-- this is the right or the left one?

TRAVIS: The right one.

MATT: The right one, right. You watch as where it
meets the stone, cracks begin to form at the edge

and with one shift (shifting), it seems to push
forward and (falling and impacting). You actually

broke whatever mechanism was holding it in place
and caused that side of the door to fall inward

(booming). As it hits the ground, you hear the
echo (echoing boom).

TRAVIS: Wait, I know a saying for this: They make
them like they used to!

MARISHA: That's relevant. Accurate.

TRAVIS: Can I see anything immediately in the--

MATT: Make a perception check.

LIAM: We're all going to die.

MATT: It is pitch black inside. There is no light
or light source.

TRAVIS: Look at that! A modifier of zero. 18. I
have darkvision because of the belt.

MATT: Yep, not bad. All right. So you glance
inside the lightless chamber. First off, the smell

of rot and time, I guess you could say; that
dusty, old, ancient, untouched scent wafts from

the chamber.

LAURA: A really old fart.

MATT: Yeah. As you glance inside, you find a
single chamber before you that splits off into two

other chambers, all rectangular, and there are two
other subchambers that are beyond you. These stand

about 20 feet tall at the height and about 40
feet wide on the one that's on the farthest side,

and you can't make it far past to the secondary
chamber to the right. And it's asymmetrical; one

seems closer than the other. There's essentially
three chambers that are all attached together,

with small entryways that lead to each. The floor
is covered in flaked shale, dirt, the occasional

glitter of some sort of errant coin or gold piece
or copper piece. At this point, again you hear the

distant (booming) of a titan footfall. The chamber
shakes, and a fresh layer of dust falls, clouds a

bit, before resting to the floor. That's the most
you can make out at first glance inside this chamber.

TRAVIS: There's more tunnels.

LIAM: Looking for traps, dead guys, from the
door.

MARISHA: Can I do a peek and check to see if
there's signs of any cave-in potentials?

Potential cave-ins?

MATT: Make a perception check.

LAURA: Can I feel if there's any wind coming from
one of the tunnels, like there's an opening

somewhere that leads out?

TRAVIS: With your face?

LAURA: Yeah, I want to feel the wind on my face.
Thanks.

MARISHA: 28.

MATT: Glancing about this chamber, it's very well
made. In fact, based on the smatterings of gold on

the ground and glancing about the way it's built,
this looks to be specifically a vault. This once

contained probably a portion of the wealth of the
people of this town.

LIAM: Oh, somebody rolled this place.

MARISHA: We don't hear anybody or anything?

MATT: Not at the moment, no.

LIAM: 18 investigation check for traps and dead
guys.

LAURA: 25 for wind!

(laughter)

MATT: There is a faint bit of airflow through the
chamber now that this door is open.

LAURA: Can I tell where it's coming from?

MATT: It is coming from the front of you and to
the right, the chamber you haven't been able to

look past entirely, to the right. You glance about
in the entryway now that's open before you. There

does not appear to be any trapped mechanism in
front of you. There are areas where some of the

walls have caved in slightly. The ceiling is
solid, but there are portions where some of the

wall has come in, and you can see where rockslides
have come to rest on each side and filled in some

of the corners. There are piles of rags and other
wayward bits of materials that have been left

behind and left to rot or sit. There's an awful,
almost citrusy rot smell coming from one of the

far chambers on the left.

MARISHA: I drag in the human, escort him in, and
go ahead and light up my hands.

MATT: Your hands open up. Pike has?

LAURA: Her mace.

MATT: Her mace. Do you come in, as well?

SAM: Sure, yeah!

MATT: All right, so you all walk into the
chamber.

LAURA: I think there's an exit ahead and to the
right.

MATT: As you're glancing and doing your
investigation, looking around, to confirm that

this was once a vault that held quite a bit of
wealth, you look at the base of the wall-- the

parts that you can see that aren't buried-- and
you can see scrapes and grooves. Hundreds of them,

like there were once many coins and other heavy
metallic materials that were placed in here that

scraped against the stone as they were once on the
ground. About maybe three inches off the ground,

you can see this layer of metallic scrapes across
the stonework that this place once contained a

fair amount of wealth.

LIAM: So if dudes came in here and put stuff in
sacks, there wouldn't be scrapes.

MATT: You do notice grooves in places and signs
that this vault has already been largely raided,

of course; most everything in here has been taken.
Probably a long time ago, based on the center. You

do notice that one of the piles of rags begins to
twitch and shift ahead of you.

LIAM: Mini Jenga.

TRAVIS: Mini Jenga?

LIAM: Well, there's something under that.

LAURA: (whispering) Maybe you should kill it
before it says anything to you.

LIAM: Do you want to? I don't think it's a small
child down here.

TRAVIS: I've become Death, Destroyer of Worlds.

SAM: (whispering) Dagger, dagger, dagger!

LIAM: What do you want to do, Sis?

LAURA: I don't know. This is all you!

SAM: Kill it!

TALIESIN: Detect undead?

LIAM: I don't have much of that left. Yeah, my
last one, I'll use it.

MARISHA: Your last one?

LIAM: My last one. Detect undead, Divine Sense.

MATT: Okay, Divine Sense. The rag pile, it's
around this portion of rock and fallen debris.

Behind it, there's that pile of rags that's
shifting. The minute you focus, you sense that is

indeed a source of undead energy, and at that
point, the rags rise up and you see a very long,

greenish humanoid claw extend. As the rag falls
back, you see a familiar sight. You've encountered

trolls in the wild before, but these trolls appear
to be somewhat rotting, their flesh strangely

battling between decomposition and regeneration.
There's this shifting midpoint where its form and

whatever cursed enchantment is held within it or
disease that claims its body is battling its nature.

LIAM: How far away is it?

MATT: Well, right now, it's charging, and I need
you to roll initiative.

TRAVIS: Everybody?

MATT: Everybody.

LAURA: That fast?! Oh fuck.

MATT: It slowly emerged and then (snarling)
charged in your direction.

LIAM: Yay, maps!

SAM: He's using all the maps we didn't use in
Indianapolis!

ALL: (mockingly) Indianapolis!

SAM: I am drunk!

(laughter)

LAURA: Indianapolis!

LIAM: Look at all the gold!

MATT: So that's the rag side there. Vax would've
been right there.

LIAM: Look at this great tile work! I love Dwarven
Forge!

MATT: (singsong) They do good shit! If you guys'd
like to place yourselves--

SAM: Matt, will you leave all this stuff for me
when you go to Burning Man, so I can use it?

MATT: Talk to Dani; she's watching our house. You
can borrow whatever's in there.

SAM: Thanks.

MATT: All right, Grog.

LIAM: We are taking that bird.

MARISHA: You steal my bird, you die.

MATT: Vex?

LAURA: Oh, I guess I'd be next to--

MARISHA: You steal my bird, she will pluck your
eyes out.

LAURA: Bear is with Grog.

MATT: With Grog? Okay.

LAURA: Trinket really likes Grog.

MATT: And Scanlan? You just entered the chamber
behind everybody else.

SAM: What's going on in here, guys? (screaming)

LAURA: He's a big guy!

MATT: Right. 25 to 20?

LAURA: 24!

TALIESIN: 29.

LIAM: That's our Percival.

MATT: Always first. All right, and then Vex. 20 to
15?

LAURA: Oh, I didn't roll for Pike.

TRAVIS: 16.

LIAM: 15.

LAURA: Ooh! 16 for Pike.

MATT: Oh, all right. Pike's before Grog.

LIAM, MARISHA, and TRAVIS: Pickle wreck!

MARISHA: It's turned into a battle cry. Pickle
wreck!

MATT: All right, 15 to ten.

SAM: 11.

MATT: Ten to five? Keyleth, what did you get?

MARISHA: Three.

(groaning)

TRAVIS: What is going on?!

SAM: How did you do that?

MARISHA: I rolled a one, that's how. I rolled a
one.

MATT: Top of the round. Percival, you watch as
something underneath this rag pile suddenly

emerges and then darts around the edge. You see
it's rushing towards Vax'ildan.

What are you doing?

TALIESIN: I'm shooting it in the foot.

MATT: Go for it.

TALIESIN: So I'm actually making this a leg shot.
Burning that. That's a 22?

MATT: 22? All right, 22 hits.

TRAVIS: What are you shooting it with?

TALIESIN: With a gun. Oh, that's nice. Yeah,
that's 17 points of damage, plus five psychic. And

it has to make a strength saving throw.

MATT: That is a 20. What is your--

TALIESIN: 20.

MATT: So it succeeds.

TALIESIN: Goddamn it. That's fine. I'm going to
shoot it in the foot again, because that's what we do.

MATT: That's cocked.

TALIESIN: Is that cocked? Goddamn it.

MARISHA: It was so close.

TALIESIN: I know. That's okay. That's an 18. 24.

MATT: 24 hits.

MARISHA: You almost critted.

TALIESIN: I know. That's ten points of damage,
plus five psychic. And again: strength saving throw.

MATT: That is a 23.

TALIESIN: Goddamn it.

MATT: Natural 16. And pretty strong.

TALIESIN: That's all right. And to make life a
little more fun, let's take a head shot, because

obviously he doesn't want to go down. And that's a
25. That hits. That's one more of those and one

more of these. And that's 11 points of damage,
plus three psychic. 14 points of damage and a

constitution saving throw.

MATT: All righty. Wow, that's a 26.

TALIESIN: Holy fuck! Never-goddamn-mind. And with
that, I'm going to dart in back behind Keyleth.

MARISHA: Wow. That was rough, buddy. I'm sorry.

TALIESIN: Is that as far back as I can get? Yeah.
And I'll use my bonus to reload.

MATT: All righty. That ends Percival's turn. Vex,
you're up.

LAURA: Hunter's Mark!

MATT: All right. Who are you marking? That guy?

LAURA: That troll that I see.

MATT: That's right. There is the one troll.

LAURA: I'm going to Hunter's Mark Grog.

MATT: Yeah. And there you go.

LAURA: Okay. And I'm going to shoot him.

MATT: Go for it.

LAURA: With a natural one.

MATT: With a natural one! So as you mark him, you
pull out the first arrow and you yank backward,

and as the arrow string tenses, the actual shaft
seems to snap in place. The arrow had somehow

dry-rotted through your travels. Chuck it at the
ground and pull another.

LAURA: Okay, this one is going to be sharpshooter
with Blazing Bowstring, so hopefully-- goddamn it!

What the fuck?

LIAM: Oh! Two!

TRAVIS: That's a two.

MATT: All right. So what's the total bonus on that
one?

MARISHA: What is happening to us?

LAURA: Oh my god, that's 11 to hit.

MATT: Yeah, that missed. Sorry.

LAURA: Jesus H. Macy!

MATT: So the first arrow shatters in place, then
pull out the second one and go to fire, and as you

strike, the arrow seems like it should hit it, but
instead it hits one of the rags over its shoulder

that makes it look like its mass is larger than it
is, and it passes through harmlessly, causing the

rag to flutter off, revealing its shoulder. You
can see the bits of greenish muscle and sinew

showing up beneath one of the gashes of its rotted
shoulder. You're going to move or Trinket can move?

LAURA: Can I climb up those rocks behind me and
stand on the top of them?

MATT: Sure. On top of the rocks there, getting
ready to fire.

LAURA: And then Trinket is going to run over and
stand next to Pike. He's going to try to protect us.

MATT: There you go. All righty.

LAURA: Can he move far enough to be on the other
side of her?

MATT: Nope. What's his movement? Is it 30 or 40?

LAURA: 40.

MATT: 40? He could, actually.

LAURA: Yeah, he goes to the other side.

MATT: He can move over there. Perfect. All right.
Ending your turn. Pike's up next.

LIAM: (impact) Kind of a gooch-smashing day, so
she's going to walk right up to him and slam it

right into his junk, yeah?

LAURA: Really, that's what she's going to do?

LIAM: That is what she's going to do.

LAURA: I guess it's undead. She can't try to turn
undead?

LIAM: Well, if she wants to use one of three
channel divinities for today.

LAURA: Fine.

LIAM: She's hitting him in the gooch.

LAURA: 23!

LIAM: 23 to hit.

MATT: That hits!

LIAM: All right.

LAURA: Great. Good.

LIAM: Plus the what's it called? Divine Strike, so
three plus four is seven, plus the 2d8. That ain't

a d8. That's 13. 21. To the gooch.

MATT: Nice. (impact) She runs up and slams it with
the side of the mace. As it hits, you can see

there's a flash of radiant energy and it burns
away some of the--

LAURA: It takes an additional 2d6 radiant because
he's undead.

LIAM: Yes! That's right. Fiend or undead take
extra 2d6 radiant damage.

LAURA: With her Mace of Disruption.

MATT: Correct. What's the additional damage?

LIAM: Whatever I just told you.

SAM: 21.

LIAM: And now I'm going to roll for that extra--

LAURA: I just did; it's seven.

MATT: What was the first damage roll you did to do
21 points of damage to her?

LIAM: That was the Mace of Disruption.

LAURA: 2d6 plus four radiant damage.

LIAM: Plus Divine Strike. Once on each turn, add
2d8 of weapon damage to your damage total.

LAURA: So that's what all he rolled, and then
since it's undead, it's an additional 2d6.

MATT: Yeah, 2d8. Yeah. Fuck yeah! All righty.

LAURA: An additional seven because he's undead.

TRAVIS: So 28 total.

LIAM: (gun cocking) Gooch shot.

MATT: That is actually pretty damn nasty. Worth
doing cleric.

LIAM: She needs to jump up to hit it.

TRAVIS: She's at 18, right?

LIAM: What's at 18?

TRAVIS: Pike.

LIAM: We're not sure. 17 or 18. Real life is
hazy.

MATT: She can use a bonus action to hit again if
she wants. That's one of her war domain abilities.

LAURA: Whoa, fuck yeah!

LIAM: Double gooch shot!

LAURA: One for each.

LIAM: Keep looking at mine. Same thing.
23.

MATT: All right, 23 hits. Roll damage again.

LIAM: (counting) 12 and then the radiant damage.
2d6. So we're at 12 plus five plus-- no, once per

turn. 17.

MATT: 17 damage? All righty. So a second hit
slams, and you could see the first one where it

burst out, burned and singed the necrotic flash.
The second one hits, not as impactful but still,

it looks relatively hurt. That ends Pike's go.

LAURA: Can't she move away from him? Oh, no,
because he will get an attack.

MATT: She could move back five, but it will get an
attack of opportunity if she does that.

LIAM: No, she's going to face him down.

MATT: Okay. Grog, you're up.

TRAVIS: I would like to rage and run up and to
this doorway. Five, 10, 15, 20. Can I see anything

in this room?

MATT: Make a perception check.

TRAVIS: Okay. Five.

MATT: Nope.

TRAVIS: Yep. I don't see anything. Oh, do I feel
anything from the black metallic hammer that I'm

holding?

LAURA: Oh yeah, you've been trying to attune to
it.

MATT: I don't think you've had time yet to fully
attune to it.

TALIESIN: He started attuning to it before the
break.

(laughter)

LIAM: It's a half hour ago, at this point.

SAM: The break doesn't exist.

TRAVIS: It's not really enough time. Okay.

LAURA: He started attuning to it as soon as Percy
felt something from the belt, so if it's

been long enough?

LIAM: You can say no.

TRAVIS: I'm going to keep coming in here.

MATT: Sure.

TRAVIS: Really?

MATT: If you want to, I'll let you attune to it.

TRAVIS: Yeah? I'll attune to it. I want to attune
to it first.

LIAM: You go blind.

SAM: Insta-death.

MATT: Okay. Go ahead.

LAURA: Are you going to attack the guy with it?

TRAVIS: Well, I don't see anything in the room,
right?

MATT: You don't see anything in the room.

TRAVIS: Can I make my way through here?

MATT: You may.

TRAVIS: Okay.

LIAM: (whispering) Grog, I'm so glad we're
together at last.

MARISHA: Starts talking to him again.

TALIESIN: What if it heals him? He hits him so
hard it actually puts health points back into him.

MARISHA: It's Craven Edge. He just got a
make-over.

TRAVIS: Can I make a reckless attack against him?

MATT: You may.

TALIESIN: Craven Head.

TRAVIS: Craven Head. That's not great. 22.

MATT: What was the natural roll?

TRAVIS: A six.

MATT: A six? As you swing the hammer, go ahead and
roll damage.

LAURA: Oh no. This is something weird.

TRAVIS: 23.

MATT: You suffer 23 points of bludgeoning damage
as you swing and clobber yourself across the face

with the hammer.

SAM and TALIESIN: What?

TRAVIS: I'm drunk. (laughs)

LAURA: Is it like if you roll below a certain
thing you hit yourself instead?

TRAVIS: 23, so half of that is 12. 11.

MATT: So you pull back and (whack). You're taken
aback by it.

TALIESIN: I'm so amused.

TRAVIS: I try again.

MATT: Roll for an attack.

LAURA: Oh my god, roll high!

TRAVIS: Reckless, great weapon master.

MARISHA: Why do you always get the fucked-up
weapon?

TRAVIS: Natural 20!

MATT: Okay.

MARISHA: This is going to knock him out.

MATT: Roll damage.

LIAM: Finally, an enemy that can kill Grog.

TRAVIS: I've been doing a d12. Is that appropriate
for the hammer?

MATT: No, did you do a d12 last time?

TRAVIS: Yeah. So I'd to do a d10?

MATT: For the warhammer.

TRAVIS: Two-handed.

MATT: Warhammer is 1d8, but if you're a versatile
two-handed, it's a d10.

TRAVIS: Let's do that.

MATT: So. It's fine for the last one. Since you
took it to the face.

TALIESIN: That'd be amazing!

LIAM: No, it wouldn't.

TRAVIS: 22, 32. 38.

(laughter)

TRAVIS: 39.

MATT: 39?

TRAVIS: Yeah.

SAM: That's with the double?

LAURA: Wait, you forgot to add stuff?

TRAVIS: Yeah, hold on.

SAM: It's a crit, right?

LIAM: Double the dice.

TRAVIS: 46.

MATT: 46, okay. So you reach back with the hammer
after shaking your head, and with a giant, angry

yell, (yelling) the hammer comes down and cracks
into the face of the troll, causing its head to

push into its ribcage, and it falls to the
ground.

LAURA: He's going to get back up.

MATT: No, it does not make its saving throw. It
falls to the ground, unmoving. Crushed.

TRAVIS: That was better. Ow.

MATT: All right, is that your turn, Grog?

TRAVIS: That is.

MATT: Vax, you're up.

LIAM: So next I'm up?

MATT: Yeah.

TALIESIN: Oh, that other room.

LAURA: Is there other shit in there?

TALIESIN: We don't know what's in there.

LIAM: Right. I'm going to move past Pike, past the
troll, and hold my action should anything come

from that room.

MATT: Okay, what are you holding?

LIAM: If I see a creature running at any of us,
I'm going to throw.

MATT: Okay, good to know. That ends your turn,
holding your action. Rushing around the corner

immediately, you hear this (growling) as these
black-drooling undead trolls, their eyes like a

jet-black bead, hints of light hitting the shine
of it, like shark eyes. This one rushes past.

LAURA: He goes for Keyleth?

MATT: Right up to there. And then this one, here.
Go ahead.

LIAM: Yeah. (dagger noises) Okay.

TALIESIN: Fuck shit up.

LIAM: I'm going before them in the order. Does
that mean I get advantage, due to assassin?

MATT: No, because this is their turn. You're
reacting to their action.

LIAM: Cool,. 25 for the first.

MATT: Hits.

LIAM: Okay. Second is a 25.

MATT: Hits.

LIAM: Third is a 15.

MATT: You don't get a bonus action, because this
is only an action you held.

LIAM: Oh, okay. Cool.

MATT: Which I probably forgot that earlier; it's
fine.

LIAM: Right, so what did I say for the first two?

MATT: They both hit.

LIAM: Okay, cool. But no sneak attack at all, so
here they come. First one is 11, plus psychic

damage is 17 for the first, and the second one is
15 for the second. 17 and 15.

MATT: 17 and 15?

LAURA: Those are good attacks without sneak
attack.

MATT: So as it turns around the corner (snarling)
and it goes into a sprint towards you, rushing

forward, it's going to go ahead and attack you
twice with its claws and one with its bite. The

claw attack is 20.

LIAM: No.

MATT: You dodge out of the first claw. It strikes
upward with its other hand. That is a 22.

LIAM: That does hit. I'll use Uncanny Dodge on
it.

MATT: Okay. 17 points of slashing damage reduced
to eight. Eight points slashing damage, and its

bite attack. That's a natural 20.

LIAM: That hits.

MATT: However, it only rolled a one on the damage.
You take six points of piercing damage, and I need

you to make a constitution saving throw.

LIAM: Balls. Okay. (singing) Don't fail me, Raven
Queen, like you've done so many times before.

(speaking) That is a 17.

MATT: Did you drop it, or did you roll it
intentionally?

LIAM: What do you mean? I'll roll it again, if you
want. I don't care. I'm rolling it again! That's

way worse: nine.

TRAVIS: It looked like he dropped it.

MATT: It looked like you dropped it. Okay. Good to
know. All right. So then the other one that's

rushing up to you, Keyleth, is going to attack
you, as well. That is a 17 to hit?

MARISHA: Yeah, that hits.

SAM: I'm going to use Cutting Words to take that
down.

MARISHA: Oh, thanks, man.

SAM: That's all right. I will yell at the troll:
Oi, troll, I would kick your ass, but I don't want

troll shit on my foot.

(laughter)

MATT: Go ahead and roll your d12.

TRAVIS: We know, baby.

LIAM: You've just peaked, Sam.

SAM: Eight.

MATT: Yeah. So with that enough of a distraction,
his head turns to you over her shoulder, and the

swing goes wide. Second claw strike.

MARISHA: Only because I turn around at Scanlan and
go: (laughs) That's good. Aw, yeah.

MATT: Which is just enough for it to roll a 19 on
its second attack with the claw.

MARISHA: And I go: Ugh! Yeah.

MATT: Which deals 14 points of slashing damage,
and it's going to go in for a bite after the claw

strikes at you and grabs your shoulder and it
pulls you in. Its troll mouth almost seems to

hyperextend as it snaps down towards your
shoulder. That is a 22.

MARISHA: Not the mantle! Yeah, that hits.

MATT: All right. You take eight points of piercing
damage, and make a constitution saving throw.

SAM: Constitution saving throw.

LIAM: Let me take my antlers off.

MARISHA: Hold my antlers! Yeah, that's good. 19.

MATT: Okay.

TRAVIS: Hold my antlers, girl.

MARISHA: Okay?

MATT: That brings us to the one. So the one on the
ground that had been slaughtered by Pike, its

wounds seem to heal up slightly, and as it gets up
from the ground, it's going to strike out towards

Pike. Getting up from prone. So the first strike
is-- that's cocked. That is 24 to hit.

LIAM: Yes.

MATT: All right. She takes eight points of
slashing damage.

LIAM: Okay.

MATT: Second attack is (counting) 25.

LAURA: No, 25 to hit.

LIAM: That hits, yeah.

MATT: Ten points of slashing damage, and as it
grabs both sides of her armor, it's going to

actually lift her off the ground and pull her
towards its mouth. Its jaw (snarling) opens up to

almost alligator-chomp down on her. The sides of
its mouth almost curve back towards its neck.

LIAM: That's fucked up, Matt.

MATT: That is going to be a seven plus nine, a 16,
which I don't believe-- she brings her shield up

just in place, and as the top jaw comes down on
the edge of her shoulder armor, the shield takes

the bottom jaw, and she just manages to wrestle it
off of her and land on her feet, unscathed by the

bite. That's going to end their turn. Scanlan,
you're up.

SAM: Me? Oh god. I'm not wasting my shit on them.

LAURA: I know. That's the problem. None of us want
to do anything.

LIAM: Yeah. We're just going to slog. Slog it out,
man, slog it out.

(laughter)

MATT: So you're moving up to this guy?

SAM: Yeah.

MATT: All righty. There you go.

TRAVIS: Come on, 20!

SAM: 16. That's a 26 to hit. Yeah, 1d8! Three!
Plus four, that's seven. Oh, but wait, there's

more! Plus four. 11 points of damage.

MATT: 11 points of damage. As you rush up and slip
it right into the sternum of the troll creature,

it goes through and points out the other side. It
goes (snarl). You pull it out.

SAM: Like a matador, I turn my back to him,
because I don't think he can hit me. I don't think

he's got it in him.

MATT: Perfect! Percival, you're up.

TALIESIN: That one that just got up is irritating
me, so I'm going to start by shooting him in the face.

LIAM: Yes, please.

TALIESIN: That's irritating. So that's a 32 to
hit.

MATT: That hits. Go ahead and roll damage.

TALIESIN: That's 12 points of damage plus five
psychic, so 17 points of damage.

MATT: 17 points of damage. All right. So as you
hit it, (gunshot) you blow a large chunk out of

its side, a wound that should have knocked it
down, and it still stands and looks towards you

(growling).

TALIESIN: That's irritating. All right. Hitting it
again. That's 26 to hit. And that's, ugh! Nine

points of damage and one psychic. That's ten
points of damage.

MATT: All right. Ten points of damage. (chuckles)
Once again, another shot (gunshot) blows out part

of its ribcage, and you see organs (slurping) slop
out onto the ground, and it--

TALIESIN: For fuck's sake. Are we missing
something here?

LAURA: They're regenerating. Something's holding
them together.

LIAM: Well, it could be their version of Death
Ward.

TALIESIN: Yeah, fine, all right. I'm taking a
third shot on that one.

MARISHA: Is it we're going to have to do radiant
damage?

MATT: You've fought trolls before.

SAM: I don't remember them. When were they?

MARISHA: That was a long time ago.

TRAVIS: Doesn't fire work on trolls?

LIAM: Fire does work on trolls, yes.

LAURA: That's why I was hoping my bowstrings would
work, but I missed my shot.

TRAVIS: Well, that was dumb.

TALIESIN: Well, irritated by that one, I'm going
to turn my attention to the one that's bothering

Keyleth and Scanlan, and I'm going to take a
headshot at it. Burning grit, because fuck it, it

regenerates. Let's take a headshot. And that's 32
to hit.

MATT: That'll hit.

TALIESIN: And that's 16 points of damage plus
three psychic, so that's 19 points of damage. And

he has to do a constitution saving throw.

MATT: 26.

TALIESIN: God fucking damn it. Stop it.

MATT: I'm sorry. I'm rolling really well for their
saving throws.

TALIESIN: That's really irritating. I wasted so
much grit, and nothing's happened. All right, I'm

going to back up even further out of the room. I'm
going to back up to the very edge.

MATT: All right. So we'll say you back up over
there. You're now backing down into the tunnel

where you guys had risen up before you got to the
door.

LIAM and LAURA: T-pose, please.

MATT: All right, that ends Percival's turn. Vex,
you're up.

TALIESIN: We need some fire.

LAURA: Yeah, I don't have any of that. Well, but
my Blazing Bowstring. I'm going to try it.

TRAVIS: Maybe something else, like poison or acid?
Isn't it acid?

LAURA: I'm going to shoot the one that I tried to
hit before.

MATT: Okay. Want to leave Hunter's Mark on it,
still?

LAURA: Yeah. I'm going to do it. I'm going to try
sharpshooter again.

MATT: Okay.

LAURA: Goddamn it. That doesn't hit. (sighs) Okay,
I'm going to try it again.

MATT: So was it a three?

LAURA: Yeah.

MATT: Plus?

LAURA: Plus 14, minus five.

MATT: Yeah, no.

LAURA: That one hits! That definitely hits.

LIAM: It's on foam, but it's good.

LAURA: That is, yeah. So that hits, right?

MATT: Yeah, that hits.

LAURA: Okay. I didn't say Blazing Bowstring, so it
doesn't count. 14 plus one lightning damage. Yeah,

sneak attack.

MARISHA: Hey, Grog.

TRAVIS: What?

MARISHA: You're good on health, yeah?

TRAVIS: (scoffs) Yeah.

LAURA: Plus six is 14 for the sneak attack. and
then five for Hunter's Mark.

MATT: Okay. And Blazing Bowstring?

LAURA: I didn't say Blazing Bowstring.

MATT: Oh, yeah. Okay. So the arrow (impact) hits
it in the chest area. You watch as part of its

ribcage caves in from the blow, and it actually
exits out the back. None of the flesh seems to stop

it, and it (choking) falls to the ground,
unmoving.

LAURA: For my bonus-- oh wait, that's a 4th-level
spell. Should I use it or not?

MARISHA: Save it.

LAURA: All right, I'll save it. I'm going to
transfer the Hunter's Mark to the one

attacking my brother.

MATT: As your bonus action? All right.

LAURA: And then Trinket is going to run up and
stand next to my brother so you can get flank attack.

LIAM: Love you.

MATT: There you go. Perfect. That ends Vex's turn.
Pike's up.

LIAM: Oh jeez. Okay. So I think--

TRAVIS: (singing) Fire!

LAURA: Should she do turn undead?

LIAM: She could turn undead, but how far are they?
They're probably too far apart. Well, no, she

could stand between them and do it.

LAURA: Each undead she can see within 30 feet.

LIAM: 30 feet. So she stands between. She's going
to climb up on-- no, I'm not going to say that.

She's going to take a step diagonally down this
way and then turnt undead.

MATT: Turnt undead? That's a whole different
ability.

LIAM: Wisdom saving throw. Spell save is 18. If
they're challenge rating four or lower, they're

blowed up.

MATT: They are not challenge rating four or lower.
It's a wisdom save?

LIAM: Yeah, wisdom save, and that just means
they're scared.

MATT: Yeah, they all fail.

LAURA: Yeah! They're scared of her!

MATT: As she holds up her holy symbol, you watch
as this radiant glow in the shape of Sarenrae

emits from behind her. These giant golden wings
emerge, and for a moment, you can see the

beautiful dark complexion and flaming hair rise
behind Pike. As that scatters outward, you watch

as the faces of these undead troll creatures all
of a sudden shift into this look of absolute

horror, and they all go (guttural groan) and begin
to make their way to turn and run.

TRAVIS: Turn and run?

LAURA: Yeah, they have to move away.

LIAM: Move as far away as you can from the person.
Also cannot take reactions. For its action, it can

use only the dash action. All they can do is run.

LAURA: If it's got nowhere to move, it can use
dodge.

TRAVIS: (singing) A do ron-ron-ron, a do ron-ron.

MATT: Exactly. How long does that last?

LAURA: It doesn't say, does it? One minute, or
until it takes any damage.

MATT: Right. Okay. So that ends Pike's turn. Okay.
Grog, you're up.

TRAVIS: Fe fi fo fuck it! Can I run over here?
(counting) And I'm going to smashy pants the

troll. Reckless, Great Weapon Master.

MATT: All right, go for it.

TRAVIS: Natural 20. That's the third one today!
That's a d10, though. Right, d10?

MATT: d10, yeah.

TRAVIS: (counting) 63.

MATT: (laughing) Oh shit. As you rush up behind,
as it's turning to run away from Pike, (snarl) it

turns around and its face comes right up to yours
as you go (whack). Its jaw rockets off and

scatters across the ground.

LAURA: Nice. At least it can't do a bite attack
any more.

MATT: You think that.

TRAVIS: You think that. It's got upper teeth.

MATT: Yeah. It's more of a jagged headbutt. So
that's your first attack.

TRAVIS: Same thing. 19.

MATT: A natural what?

TRAVIS: A natural-- shit, what was it? So it was
a-- shit, I can't do reverse math.

SAM: You mean subtraction.

(laughter)

TALIESIN: Oh man. What the hell?

TRAVIS: (laughing) Oh no! That hurt my brain. It
was an eight. Thank you.

MATT: All right. Does 19 hit your armor class?

TRAVIS: Yeah.

MATT: Roll damage.

TRAVIS: This guy has got up and down. Oh, no, now
I can't do math at all. 24. 34.

MATT: You suffer 34 points of bludgeoning damage.

TRAVIS: Nice. So 17.

LIAM: So he didn't strike the troll at all?

MATT: No. You knock the jaw off, and as you swing
back with a backwards strike, the arm seems to

swing around in a circle, and then clobber you in
the back of the head and you're like (grunts). You

spit blood on the ground, and you feel the ringing
in the back of your skull.

LAURA: What the fuck is this stupid-ass hammer?

TALIESIN: He's so excited.

MATT: You guys look over and watch as Grog
bludgeons himself in the back of the head.

MARISHA: I didn't know you were so flexible,
Grog.

LAURA: Are you drunk?

TRAVIS: A little, yep.

MATT: Ending Grog's turn. Vax, you're up. That
guy's no longer frightened, by the way, because

you did do damage to it.

TRAVIS: As my bonus action-- I do have a bonus
action-- can I use my second wind?

MATT: You may.

TRAVIS: Thank you. 1d10. (counting) 11 points.

MATT: There you go. What are you doing, Vax?

LIAM: What I'm going to do is turn to Trinket
really quick and say, guard this dead thing, and

then I'm going to use my movement and dash action,
if necessary, to sprint around and flank that

troll between me and Grog.

MATT: All right. Because it is frightened, and
it's within view of Pike, it does not make an

attack of opportunity on you. It doesn't even
notice you. You step over and rush this way, and

you are now there flanking it with Keyleth.

LIAM: Flanking with Keyleth? Okay.

MATT: You could do Scanlan if you wanted to move
there.

LIAM: If Keyleth is on the other side-- as long as
I'm flanking, either way.

MATT: So do you want to go the other way, against
Grog?

LIAM: No, I'm fine. I'm flanking with Keyleth
right now? To the butt.

MARISHA: I might drop a Fireball on your ass.

LIAM: That's fine. 28 on the first. And ooh,
30-something on the second.

MATT: Yeah, they both hit.

LIAM: Okay, so first one is (counting) 11 plus
psychic is 12, plus those guys. (counting) 28 for

that one. Sorry.

MATT: 28 points of damage? Hold on. Yeah, it falls
to the ground, unmoving (gurgle) as you stab it in

the back of the skull. You guys watch as the
dagger, as Whisper (splat) protrudes from the

front of the skull and it (gurgle, splat) and
slumps to the ground.

LIAM: That was the first one. The second one I'm
going to shove it down into its eye socket and

just grind it around for the second attack, even
though it's down.

MATT: Okay, so it's on the ground. It's easy
enough. You go ahead and grab the back of its

motionless skull, jam in, dig around and scramble
the brains on the inside with your dagger. Okay.

LIAM: That's it. Done.

MATT: Ending Vax's turn. The corpse on the ground,
as you're scrambling its brains, suddenly its

other eye flickers open. It reaches up and grabs
you, and from the ground, it's going to use you to

pull itself back up.

LAURA: We've got to chop it up or set it on fire.

MATT: At this point, it's going to take a claw
attack at you. That is a 20.

LIAM: Nope.

MATT: As it tries to claw at you, you barely dodge
out of the way. Your hair (whoosh) as it passes.

It's going to spin around and claw at Scanlan
behind with a 17?

SAM: Yeah, of course.

MATT: Nine points of slashing damage. And after it
finds purchase on you, it realizes that you're a

little more vulnerable. Its claws still dug in
your shoulder, it's going to pull you in and it's

going to attempt to, using its upper jaw, jam its
teeth down into you; the lower jaw with the tongue

is dangling out at this point. That is 25.

SAM: Yeah.

MATT: You take five points of piercing damage and
make a constitution saving throw.

LAURA: What does that mean?

LIAM: I did a constitution save 20 minutes ago.

LAURA: I know. I don't know what it means!

SAM: That's pretty good. 23.

MATT: Okay. All righty. This one's going to get
back up from the ground, it's going to crawl its

way back to its feet and it's going to unload on
Pike again, as she's right there.

TALIESIN: It hasn't been hit yet since she--

MATT: It was dead when she did turn undead; it was
not affected by it. But it has since regenerated

itself back.

LIAM: Was it dead or was it undead? I'm just being
stupid; go for it.

MATT: No worries. Yeah, unfortunately, its body
was not moving; it was not actively present and

able to pay attention when the first effect
happened. That's four plus 11, that's not a hit.

That's 15. That's a 14. Then with its bite attack
that is a 22. What's her armor class?

LAURA: 23.

MATT: 23 with the shield, yeah. It goes to bite
towards her, its jaw tearing open, the muscle

actually stretching and pulling with each bite as
its body's falling apart, and she beats it back

with her armor and shield. No effect. And this one
here, which has not been damaged, is going to go

ahead and run the fuck away. You guys don't even
see where it is right now. All right. That brings

us to Scanlan's turn.

SAM: All right. Jesus. There's all these people
around. All right, I'm going to step away from the

troll, and I'm going to light it up.

MATT: Okay. As you step back, it's going to go
ahead and make--

SAM: I thought it was frightened!

MATT: No, it was until he hit it. It's going to
try and swing its bite at you once more.

That is a 15.

SAM: Yeah.

LAURA: Jeez, Scanlan! You need better armor!

MARISHA: Matt! Did you skip me?

MATT: No, you were last; you're after Scanlan.

TRAVIS: Yeah, remember you rolled shit?

MARISHA: No, I know. Yeah, no, I remember that.

MATT: Or did I skip you last turn, you mean?

MARISHA: This is the second time he's going,
right?

MATT: Correct. Oh, I must have skipped you last
turn! I'm so sorry!

MARISHA: It's okay. I don't think I've done
anything yet. I've only dodged.

MATT: No, I'll give you two rounds after this.
It's my fault. That's totally my fault.

I'm sorry.

MARISHA: That's okay.

MATT: So anyway, that's six points of piercing
damage to you. Make a constitution saving throw.

SAM: Ooh, natural 20.

MATT: All right. Keyleth. What are you doing,
twice, because it's my fault?

SAM: It's still my turn.

MATT: Oh, that's right, sorry.

SAM: Fireball! Wand of Fireball.

MATT: To who?

SAM: To that troll who just hit me. I was backing
away.

LAURA: You're going to smoke everybody?

SAM: I asked!

LIAM: I'll be fine.

MARISHA: You can place it to where it might hit
both of them and not us.

SAM: Is it that big?

LIAM: Yeah, dude.

SAM: Oh shit! Well, then yeah, I'm smoking them
both.

MATT: All right. In order to do that, you're going
to hit Pike, Vax, and Grog.

SAM: Sorry, friends!

MATT: That's okay. Pike has fire resistance.

TRAVIS: You don't have to hit me!

MATT: I need Grog, Vax and Pike to make dexterity
saving throws.

LAURA: Is it possible to do it without hitting
Grog?

MATT: No. Not at that size. He probably could, but
it'll hit Trinket. Your choice.

LAURA: It's Scanlan's choice.

MATT: Scanlan, Grog or Trinket? You're going to
hit one or the other.

SAM: Absolutely Grog. I love my Trinket.

TRAVIS: But he just goes back into the necklace.

SAM: All right, you're right. Then I'll hit
Trinket.

LAURA: You're a dick.

MATT: All right. Roll a dexterity save for
Trinket.

LAURA: Oh, motherfuck!

LIAM: I already rolled terribly for Pike.

SAM: It's a wand, so I'm using three charges. It's
10d6.

MATT: Oh! Right! All right. So 10d6 points of fire
damage.

LAURA: 11.

SAM: I have zero d6 right now. I don't what
happened to mine.

LIAM: Pike got a five. Vax got a 20.

MATT: Okay, and your spell, what's the DC on the
wand? 15? So yeah, you succeed. You take no

damage, being a rogue.

LIAM: Lovely.

MATT: That's a good roll.

SAM: 40.

MATT: So 40 points of fire damage. 20 to Pike,
because she's resistant. None to that. 40 to

Trinket. You watch as both of the standing trolls
scatter to ash. They turn to burned dust and

nothing as their bodies are consumed by the flame
of the Fireball, leaving nothing but smoke and a

shadow of their form against the wall. All right,
Scanlan. That ends your turn?

SAM: Yeah, and to refresh, that's a wand. Does
that still use my spell slot?

MATT: No, the wand has charges on it.

LAURA: Can you use that wand again?

SAM: Yeah, it regenerates after a long rest. I
have to roll for it.

LIAM: But it's not a one-shot; it's got several
charges, right?

SAM: It's got several charges. It's got more in
it.

MATT: Did you write down how many charges it has?

TALIESIN: Vax, do you want to check for traps and
see if there's anything interesting in there?

MATT: Keyleth, what do you want to do? There's
still one troll over here that ran out of sight.

MARISHA: He ran out of sight?

SAM: Well, let's go plunder the loot.

MARISHA: You guys go plunder the loot. I'll creep
over.

MATT: I'm sorry about missing your turn. I feel so
bad about it.

MARISHA: That's okay! You're so cute.

MATT: So you're going where?

MARISHA: I want to see if I can see him.

MATT: Six, and you're going to dash with your
action to move over?

MARISHA: Can I not see him?

MATT: Not with your basic movement, no. There's a
wall. Okay, so you move around the corner and you

watch as the troll is currently locked in the
corner with its back to the wall, going,

(monster noises).

MARISHA: I go, hey it's okay, calm-- Fireball! Out
of the staff.

MATT: Okay.

TRAVIS: Goodness gracious, great balls of fire!

MATT: Yeah, no, that won't hit anything but
himself and the surrounding chamber. Go ahead and

roll damage on that.

MARISHA: (counting) Can I get two more d6s from
you?

MATT: You're doing a standard 8d6?

MARISHA: It's out of my staff. I can't do any
more, right? Reroll, yep. (singing) Like a d6,

like a like a d6! (counting) 35 damage.

MATT: 35 damage. All righty. (explosion) The
explosion hits and bursts around. The flames burn,

and you can see some flames are catching on the
troll. (monster noises). Still alive.

MARISHA: Okay, I'm going to take my bonus action
to do something I've never done before. I'm going

to trace, from my staff, and pull out a flame
blade. (shing)

MATT: Okay! So you guys watch as Keyleth puts her
fingers across the top of the staff. Where her

fingers arc around, it creates this arc of fire,
and when she stops she grabs on to a hilt that

didn't exist, but now does, in her hand. That arc
of flame that stayed suddenly solidifies into a

scimitar-like blade that's in her hand.

LAURA: You can do that?!

LIAM: She's a fucking Jedi!

MATT: All right, that ends your turn? All right,
Percy.

LAURA: You didn't even see it!

LIAM: I can imagine it in the abstract universe,
though. I sure can, Laura Bailey! I sure can!

SAM: Well, look who's back in the fight.

TALIESIN: Yeah, that's all. Ain't nothing else
happening. Just taking a look. Yeah, she's got this.

MATT: All right, ends Percival's turn. Vex, you're
up.

LAURA: No, I'm going to fly over. Can I get to a
place where I can see the troll? Well, how many is this?

MATT: Are you going to fly down?

LAURA: I have 50 feet on my broom.

LIAM: You could dash. Broom dash.

MATT: You'd get right around there and see it.

LAURA: I'm going to shoot him! And he's still
Hunter's Marked!

MATT: He is, yes.

LAURA: 17?

MATT: 17 does hit.

LAURA: Oh, thank god. I didn't say it; it didn't
happen. 13 plus three lightning damage. Plus one

Hunter's Mark.

MATT: The first strike hits it. It still has the
fire trailing up its body. Second shot?

LAURA: 21.

MATT: That hits.

SAM: Say the thing that you wanted to say.

LAURA: The Blazing Bowstring? Blazing Bowstring.
Sorry. I only get two per short rest, so if we

don't rest, then I don't get it again! Six
lightning damage, plus nine, plus two. 11.

MATT: Both arrows hit it in the chest. One, two!
It's still standing there, the flames curling

around it. The ceiling, by the way, from the
impact of the Fireball,

is looking pretty fragile.

LAURA: But that's the exit. That's where we need
to go to?

MATT: You do see, Keyleth, from this perspective,
there's a small opening on the far wall where it

looks like possibly whoever raided this vault had
previously tunneled into it.

LAURA: Shit! Would Trinket have been able to make
it over to him?

MATT: It would've been really close. Probably not.
You don't know. It's possible. End of your turn,

Vex? Pike's up.

LIAM: Pike saw Keyleth go running down that way,
so she is going to run after her. (counting) She

can't see the troll from there, right?

MATT: She can see the troll just past the corner,
there.

LIAM: She can see the troll? Oh my god, I think
it's time for a Guiding Bolt!

LAURA: (singing) Guiding Bolt up the butt!

MATT: That's our next T-shirt. Guiding Bolt up the
butt!

LIAM: Range 120 feet. A flash of light streaks
toward a creature of your choice within range.

Make a ranged spell attack against the target. On
a hit, the target takes 4d6 radiant damage and the

next attack roll-- okay. Yeah, make a spell ranged
attack plus ten, because it's Pike. Yeah, you've

got to attack. Yo, here's the white die you gave
me. 13 plus ten is 23.

MATT: That hits. Go ahead and roll damage.

TRAVIS: Extra damage because it's undead?

LAURA: I don't think so. 12. Guiding Bolt!

LIAM: Specifically toward the taint, Matt. Pike's
on a tear today.

MATT: All right, so. As she comes around the
corner, the holy symbol in one hand, clutching

behind the shield, she notches the edge of the 
mace at the edge of her belt and releases a bolt

of energy. How do you want to do this? Because the
radiant damage shuts down the undead fortitude,

and the fire knocks down the regeneration.

LIAM: The Guiding Bolt streaks through the air,
loops down to the ground, up through the butt, up

out the head, and out the mouth. Everyone vaguely
hears, "That's my Pike." And its head explodes.

MATT: You see the radiant energy bursting out of
its eyes, and as it screams, its head blasted

upward, the energy bursting through its mouth, the jaw
begins to burn away as the flames left over from

the Fireball consume the rest of its body. It
tumbles to its knees and burns into this skeletal

mass that turns to ash on the ground.

LIAM: That happened in six seconds. It was like,
(explosions).

LAURA: We need to get out of here. It's
crumbling.

TRAVIS: There are chests about.

MARISHA: I take my flaming sword and do a few Jedi
kid moves. When no one's looking, go

(lightsaber noises).

LAURA: I go check for traps on that chest right
there.

MATT: Make an investigation check.

LAURA: 14.

MATT: 14? Okay. Does not appear to be trapped.

LAURA: All right, then I'm going to open it.

MATT: You open it? There are seven gold pieces,
two silver, and the rest of it's empty.

LAURA: Awesome. Look at all this money!

TALIESIN: I'll check for traps.

MATT: Investigation check.

TALIESIN: It's a 22.

MATT: 22, okay. Room does not appear to be
trapped, from what you can see.

TALIESIN: I'm going to check that trunk. The
chest.

MATT: You're going to check that for traps, as
well?

TALIESIN: This is not quite as-- seven.

MATT: Make a perception check. Seven? Doesn't
appear to be trapped.

TALIESIN: I open it.

MATT: Opens. It's not locked. There's about 12
pieces of gold, two copper, a silver. This place

has been cleared out.

LAURA: I'm going to pick up that little pile of
gold, those couple pieces of gold

I see on the ground.

MATT: You gather what amounts to about 35 gold
pieces from there. Keyleth, what did you roll? 26?

You're watching as one of the supports that-- The
ceilings here are pretty solid. The one on the far

end here has sustained damage from the Fireball
and the drilling entry of whoever came in here

previously, and the constant moves of the titan.
At which point, you watch and you feel the

(rumbling), the most recent footfall of the titan.
The whole ceiling right there in the corner goes

(crashing). This entire chamber.

SAM: The door's covered!

LAURA: Can you get through it, Keyleth?

TRAVIS: Remember, there were three different ways,
though, and we took one.

SAM: That's the one we need, though.

LIAM: Okay, realizing that the druid and the
goliath are going to have to figure that out, Vax

walks to the middle there and starts to take a wee
in the corner. It's been a long time.

TRAVIS: Do we want to go through the collapsed
doorway, or do we want to go back to one of the

other tunnels?

LAURA: Whatever other tunnel options, there's
probably other monsters, trolls, fucking undead

waiting there, too.

SAM: This is on you, Grog. No, don't use any
spells. Don't use any spells. Grog, punch through

this shit.

MARISHA: Wait, I can Commune with Nature and maybe
figure out the tunnel system, or depending on

where we are and if we think we're on that time
crunch and we want to get going-- I didn't want to

burn this yet. I did bring Find the Path, which is
a one-day concentration spell which gets us to

where we want to go as quick as possible. But I
don't know. Can I do that with Thar Amphala?

SAM: Don't you need to know where you're going for
that spell to work?

MARISHA: Well, if we're getting to Thar Amphala.

SAM: It's a big city.

MATT: It's concentration for up to one day, but if
you lose concentration halfway through--

MARISHA: Which is why I haven't wanted to do it
yet, until we felt like we needed to go.

MATT: To a specific, fixed location you're
familiar with in the same plane of existence. So

you could, in theory, say, "Thar Amphala," and it
would guide you to the fastest path there until

you lost concentration.

MARISHA: I'm just saying, we have that at our
disposal when we feel. Do we want to do a quick

Commune with Nature, then, to try and get paths?
It's going to take a few minutes, though.

SAM: What would that tell you?

MARISHA: I could get an idea of the tunnel system
for a three-mile radius.

LIAM: Yeah, let her do her thing. I think we can
afford a few minutes. Then Grog could finish

attuning-- oh, you did. That "stop hitting
yourself" hammer was attuned.

TRAVIS: Oh yeah, have I finished attuning with the
black hammer of face-smash?

SAM: Is the hammer called the Stop Hitting
Yourself hammer?

MATT: Best you can make out with it, it is an
adamantine hammer, but there is something wrong

about its enchantment. There is something about it
that is locked into your soul at the moment. It's

occupying a portion of yourself.

LIAM: You are going to crit on Vecna and K.O.
yourself.

MATT: Pike, you guys have dealt with cursed items
before. This is a cursed item.

LIAM: Greater Restoration? I'm looking.

TRAVIS: Do I know it's cursed? It's a familiar
feeling? From Craven Edge?

MATT: Well, Craven wasn't cursed. Craven was
intelligent. This is something has sunk into you.

LAURA: She's going to try to Greater Restoration
Grog.

LIAM: She'll grab him by the cheeks and squish the
cheeks and say, "Grog, don't go touching things

"you don't know what they are!" Cast Greater
Restoration.

MATT: Okay, so mark off the Greater Restoration.
As you feel the hammer in your hand, it's like

your fingers won't let go of it. They're almost
clenched to it. The minute she touches you, you

feel this warmth pass through your body, through
your arms, to your hand. With that, your fingers

widen and the hammer falls to the ground, there.
That hold that it had on you is lifted.

TRAVIS: I think I'm going to leave this here, if
that's cool with you guys.

LIAM: She gives you the mom look and says, "Don't
touch it, okay?"

LAURA: Do you have time to attune to your other
thing?

TRAIVS: Yeah, I'll pick up the Bloodaxe out of
the Bag of Holding and start attuning to that

again. Old trusty Bloodaxe.

MATT: So you guys are taking a short rest to
attune? In caves and other natural underground

settings. Make a nature check. The radius is only
300 feet when you're underground.

MARISHA: Okay, 25.

MATT: 25. One, this is not a natural underground
location. The entirety of this area is the inside

of an ancient, powerful elemental entity. Also,
the spell doesn't function where nature has been

replaced by construction, such as dungeons and
towns, so for the most part, that spell would not

aid you. My apologies.

MARISHA: But you're not letting me cast it,
right?

MATT: I'm not letting you cast it. That nature
check was to see whether or not the surroundings

would help you, so you know not to waste that
spell. So as you take your short rest, you attune

to your proper weapon, and you begin to talk
amongst yourselves as to what the next proper path

or action to take is as you climb through the
crypts toward your destination, we're going to go

ahead and end tonight's session there. It's just
past 11.

TRAVIS: I've got to take a picture of this.

MATT: Great game, guys. Well done. We'll pick this
up in a couple weeks. This is an upward dungeon

crawl. This is fun.

TRAVIS: He must have fallen against a mountain in
an upright manner.

MATT: Oh, the titan? The titan was thrust into the
ground in a mountain range. The mountain range

rose up around it. Technically you wouldn't know
this, but it doesn't matter. Part of the battle

that smote the titan thrust it downward and
created the mountain range around it.

TRAVIS: That's amazing. Nice job, Matt!

MATT: Nice job, you guys! That was awesome.
We'll pick this up in a couple weeks. You guys

will return next week, where you'll get to see
this awesome man run his awesome game!

SAM: It's going to be awesome! It's all set in the
world of Alice in Wonderland.

LAURA: Is it?

SAM: No!

LIAM: Guys, have so much fucking fun on the playa.
Recharge, reset, energize, go nuts. Miss you.

MATT: We'll miss you too, guys.

SAM: Any Critters who are on the playa with these
guys, they will take off their clothes if you ask them.

LIAM: No! They need to recharge! Give them some
space, let them recharge!

MARISHA: If you see me topless, please don't take
a photo.

MATT: Why would you say that?!

MARISHA: It was a joke! It was a fucking joke that
the internet will take too seriously, I'm sure.

LIAM: I'll be topless on Sam's one-shot. You can
look at me instead.

MARISHA: If you see Liam topless, take all the
photos.

LIAM: Push-ups for seven days; here we go!

MATT: All right, guys. Well, we're going to take
off. Thank you so much for joining us tonight.

Rest well, and is it Thursday yet? Good night!

[music]